Skip to main content
 
 
 
 
 
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer People
Full text of "Player's Handbook"
See other formats
SEEN Sat OA Sd 
sr P 


EY a eS EM + 


oa Tr Ge 
. F pee. ES. ce A 


CA [i 


a. 


Be me rence TN te py Sik =~” 


j 
f 
| 
1 
A 


z 


i 


$ DES eee oe 


y 


4% i “Pe 


`% { 
EN Ses Se ee) Se 


See oa oe S 


py 
a a 


aga aa EEPE L f 2 


eee i fe ae ee ee AES 


A 5 7 ~~ -— -ry 
4 " 2 : i 


<a E A 


lo 


© 


Ki 


e 


Based on the original Dunczons & Dracons game 
created by E. Gary Gygaxand Dave Arneson. 
~ . 


This Wizarps oF THE Coast game product contains no Open Game Content. 
No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. 
To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d2o System License, 

r please visit www.wizards.com/d20. 


U.S., CANADA, EUROPE, UK, EIRE, & SOUTH AFRICA 
ASIA, PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA Wizards of the Coast c/o Hasbro UK 
Wizards of the Coast LLC P.O. Box 43 
P.O. Box 707 Newport NP19 4YD, UK 
Renton WA 98057-0707 @ Tel: 80022 427276 
QUESTIONS? 1-800-324-6496 email wizards@hasbro.co.UK 
620A0242000001 EN 987654321 ISBN 978-0-7869-624.6-4. 


First Printing: July 2003, This Printing August 2012 


Duncerons & Dracons, D&D, Dunczon Master, d20, dro System, Player’s Handbook, Wizarbs oF THE Coast, and 
their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC. All Wizards characters, character names, and the 
distinctive likenesses thereof are property of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This material is protected under the copyright 
laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein 
is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC This product is a work of fiction. Any 
similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Please retain company details for 
future reference. PRINTED IN THE USA. ©2003 Wizards of the Coast LLC. 


Visit our website at www. DungeonsandDragons.com A 


| ga 


© 


ld 


p 


>J 


Re 


AT 


PLAYER’S HANDBOOK DESIGN 
JONATHAN TWEET 


PLAYER’S HANDBOOK REVISION 
ANDY COLLINS 


D&D 3RD EDITION CORE DESIGN TEAM 


Monte Cook, JONATHAN TWEET, 
Sxrip WILLIAMS 


D&D 3RD EDITION REVISION TEAM 
RICHARD BAKER, ANDY CoLiins, DAVID 
Noonan, Ricu REDMAN, SKIP WILLIAMS 


A DD Ir @O NAL DESIGN 
PETER ADKISON, RICHARD BAKER 

¿ ? 

Do ERV e FS Ta OF Pa ME SES New Ti 
GWENDOLYN F.M. KESTREL, Curis Sims, 


BILL SLAVICSEK, ED STARK ve 


Ea A gs Ee eO ner eS 
Juris MARTIN, JOHN RaTELIFF 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANCE AND 
PER T O8eO. FR: ED ge NEE” 


BILL McQuittan, Davip Noonan, - 
Jerr Quick, Penny WILLIAMS 


MANAGING EDITOR 
Kim Mouan 


VISUAL CREATIVE DIRECTOR 


Jon ScHINDEHETTE 


OER «i Dr! ets RRSER + Ghee “Te Ooo R 


Dawn MURIN 
¥ 


“ADDITIONAL ART DIRECTION 


KATE IRWIN, 


D&D- CONCEPTUAL ARTISTS 
Topp Lockwoop, SAM Woop 5 


D& D ‘Le, Ole GRO iD! SES Sie GKN 
MATT ADELSPERGER, SHERRY FLOYD 


Ce (OS, Vie B52 SR: ALAR WT YP) eG eared 
Henry HIGGENBOTHAM 


I NITE REO ROT ART T S. WES, 
Lars-Grant WEst, Scott FISCHER, — 
- Joun FOSTER, JEREMY JARVIS, Topp 
= Locxwoop, Davip MARTIN, WAYNE | 
_ REYNOLDS, ARNIE SWEKEL, Eva WIDERMANN, 
à: SaM Woop 5 


<J 


GRAPHIC 
SHERRY FLOYD, SEAN GLENN, PAUL HEBRON, 
Dawn MuRIN 


DESIGNERS 


PUBLISHING PRODUCTION SPECIALISTS 
CARMEN CHEUNG, ANGELIKA LOKOTZ, 
Nancy WALKER 


CA. Ry T Om Guth oP oth eR 
Topp GAMBLE 


P ato. Tr. 0,-G: BA. PA ARENOR 
CRAIG CUDNOHUFSKY 


PREPRESS MANAGER 
JEFFERSON DUNLAP 


IMAGING TECHN TC ae ApN 
CARMEN CHEUNG 


PRODUCTION MANAGER 
t CYNDA CALLAWAY 


R&D GROUP MANAGER 
> Mike MEARLS 
D& D “BRM: Dy af Ewa M 


NATHAN STEWART, Liz SCHUH, Laura 
TOMMERVIK, SHELLY MAZZANOBLE, 
Curis Linpsay, HıLaRy Ross 


“OTHER WIZARDS OF THE COAST 


R& Dy “GO NTR IB U TLO*R S 
Pau Barciay, Jason CARL, MICHELE 
CARTER, JENNIFER CLARKE WILKES, BRUCE 
R. CorDELL, MIKE Donars, DaviD 
ECKELBERRY, SKAFF ELIAS, ANDREW FINCH, 

JEFF Gruss, Ros HEINSOO, DUANE ` 
MAXWELL, CHRISTOPHER PERKINS, JON 
PIcKENS, SEAN K REYNOLDS, CHARLES RYAN, 


= [MIKE SELINKER, JONATHAN TWEET, 


JAMES Wyatt 


BASED ON THE DESIGN OF. 
PREVIOUS 


E, DUET OSNES BY: 
E. Gary GyGax, DAVE ARNESON, 
Davip “ZEB” Cook 


Sr ERE NG? T TAE Te HAY Ne Kees) 
Mary ELIZABETH ALLEN, Ryan Dancey, 
Cuas DeLona, JEFFERSON DUNLAP, MARTIN 
DURHAM, JOE FERNANDEZ, JosH FISCHER, 

_ RICHARD GARFIELD, Mary KIRCHOFF, JiM 
Lin, STEPHEN RapNEY-MacFaR.anp, CINDI 

= RIœŒ, ANDY SMITH, MAT SMITH, KEITH 
STROHM, ANTHONY VALTERRA, 
Larry WEINER, ALEX WEITZ 


ee 


’ 


V5.0 111 0) eae PON PES aCe aT oR eNO 122 

Co nte nts Goods and Services. i, asrasa 126 

Chapter 8: Combat................5 133 

Introduction. ..................0.0008. 4 The Battle Grid. ... 2.0.0... cc eee eenene 133 

How Combat Works................000+ 133 

Character Creation Summary........ 6. Combat Statistics. ii sssrinin vines 133 

j Combat Basics. pori oora oss 135 

Chapter 1: Abilities ....... 0o z4 taine i a ees 136 

PAbility. Scores: iiia iaaa Zal ‘Attacks of Opportunity... eee 137 

PchexAbilities ces senii eee ees al 8 Actions ip Com bat i she a ye 138 
[Changing Ability Scores... a...se 10 Injury and Death 


Chapter 2: Races 


Movement, Position, 
and Distance.... 


Choosing a Race, 30.3 runaa Combat Modifiers saia niaaa 150 
Racial Characteristics.............000.005 11 Special Attacks! gausios: 154 
EU AS pe in, co a anceps accel 12 Special Initiative Actions .....ss seee. 160 
DSi ci indeed A 14 
Ee ei op On A EE 15 Chapter 9: Adventuring ........... 161 
Gnomes i a cr 16 Cattying Capacity case og a cere eta 161 
JE Thiel kr ener ne econ ti ee rene roe 18 IMovemeni i acca tise va a seas 162 
lal Ore Ta Saes  teh 18. 1 1ES:a oI Kon aT n Co) ne ene eT 164 
Halflinga aaa MEE} Kreas a e EEE EEE 167 
| lOther Rewards ..........0...0c cece cane 168 
Chapter 3: Classes 21 4 
Whe Cle ate re 21} Chapter 10: Magic ................. 169 
Class and Level Bonuses... nssr PiE i [Castine Spells ciona eels 169 
Level-Dependent Benefits o.. ossessione 22u tSpell Descriptions. asni 172 
Class Descriptions. aa 23 Arcane Spell ica ccee iret caanctace 177 
Barbad cr cece ea aE 24. Di viiess oe aii 179 
Batd is eier ei oes ee ete 26 Special Abilities aranais 180 | 
E TAA T A P en CUR E O re 30 i 
Dridsgoann ae ae Eero aE 33 Chapter 11: Spells ................. 181 
Pighie tis ooo eos  aere e e 37_| Band Spel Se te acer a et 181 | 
MO ta a ea 39 | [Cleric Spel a ce 1831 
‘Cleric Domains eal BS 
‘Druid Spells... 189 
Paladin Spells ... ADL 
Ramer: Se se a ce 191 
Sorcerer/Wizard Spells „n.s oso nirieeee 192 
. Experience and Levels Spells aan cn CET 196 
| Multiclass Characters. snis s sirinin Z 
| Appendix: General Guidelines } 
Chapter 4: Skills 0.0.0... eee eee 61 and Glossary ........ ossee eerren 304 
[Skills Summary ........0.00.0000000ee ees 61 
(Acquiring Skill Ranks .... 0...0 61 Index ya OA 315 
Usine Sa e a a 62 
Skill Descriptions .........:.0secearenees 66 Character Sheet ... ooeec ceee 318 
Chapter 5: Feats oiriin 87 Polymorph Subschool.............. 320 
Acquiring Feats- 87 
Prerequisites a aai cee ae as 87 List of Numbered Tables 
Types Of Feati spc sa ae caer ie 87 Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers 
_Feat Descriptions.......... esa 89 and Bonus Spells .................0..204 8 
| Table 2-1: Racial Ability Adjustments .... 12 
Chapter 6: Description ............ 103 Table 3—1: Base Save and 
LAc DD iaaii aA 103 Base Attack Bonuses................45 22 
Religion sce eee da aes seta a 106 Table 3-2: Experience and Level- 
Vital Statisticg fo ena ks Gu nen nis dma 109 | Dependent Benefits .................. 22 
Looks, Personality, Table 3-3: The Barbarian. sie 25 
and Backorotind sss oc neces 110 Table 3-4: The Bard... eee eee, 27 
Customizing Your Character............ 110 Table 3-5: Bard Spells Known............ 28 
- Table 3-6: The Cleric ara e F 31 
Chapter 7: Equipment ............. III Table 3-7: Deities nosna 32 
Equipping a Character.................. 111 Table 3-8: The Druid .................... 35 
Wealth and Money...........00. see 112 Table 3-9: The Fighter................... 39 
Weapons ere een SO I 112 Table 3-10:The Monk o oasis i 40 


Table 3-11: Small or Large Monk 


Unarmed Damage................005. 41 
Table 3-12: The Paladin.................. 43 
Table 3-13: The Ranger.................. 46 
Table 3-14: Ranger Favored Enemies..... 47 
Table 3-15: The Rogue. nunnia 49 
Table 3-16: The Sorcerer... 0... ...22 eee 52 
Table 3-17: Sorcerer Spells Known....... 54 
Table 3-18: The Wizard ...... 0... eee 55 
Table 4-1: Skill Points per Level.......... 62 
Thet Z Shall T; 2.03 sea de oot 63 
Table 4-3: Difficulty Class Examples ..... 64 
Table 4-4: Example Opposed Checks... 64 
Table 4—5: Skill Synergies.............0.. 66 
Table 4—6: Example Ability Checks....... 66 
(Table 5—1: Feats... 2... cece eee nero ees 90 
Table 6—1: Creature, Race, and 

Class Alignments.................0.. 104 
Table 6-2: Deities by Race ..........-.4. 106 
Table 6-3: Deities by Class.............. 106 
Table 6-4: Random Starting Ages ....... 109 
Table 6-5: Aging Effects .........00000e: 109 
Table 6—6: Random Height 

and Wei ges 109 
Table 7-1: Random Starting Gold ....... 111 
able 7225 ga ac ees 112 
Table 7-3: Trade Goods oo... cece eee eens 112 
Table 7—4: Tiny and Large 

Weapon Damage 114 
Table 7-5: Weapons........00+s000ee eee 116 
Table 7—6: Armor and Shields........... 123 
Table 7-7: Donning Armor.............. 123 
Table 7-8: Goods and Services .......... 128 
Table 8—1: Size Modifiers ............... 134 
Table 8-2: Actions in Combat........... 141 
Table 8-3: Tactical Speed................ 147 
Table 8—4: Creature Size and Scale....... 149 
Table 8-5: Attack Roll Modifiers ........ 151 
Table 8—6: Armor Class Modifiers ....... 151 
Table 8-7: Special Attacks............... 154 
Table 8-8: Common Armor, Weapon, and 
___ Shield Hardness and Hit Points ...... 158 
Table 8-9: Turning Undead ............. 159 
Table 8-10: Two-Weapon 

Fighting Penalties ................... 160 
Table 9-1: Carrying Capacity............ 162 
Table 9-2: Carrying Loads .............. 162 
Table 9-3: Movement and Distance...... 162 
Table 9-4: Hampered Movement........ 163 
Table 9-5: Terrain and Overland 

LSU thst Oo ee eee, eet 164 
Table 9-6: Mounts and Vehicles......... 164 
Table 9-7: Light Sources 

and Illumination 0.0... ee 165 
Table 9-8: Common Armor, Weapon, and 

Shield Hardness and Hit Points...... 166 
Table 9-9: Substance Hardness 

and Ei Poin gi oe 166 
Table 9—10: Size and Armor Class 

OR ODI CCT aii anasaini 166 
Table 9-11: Object Hardness 

and Ait Poin (Sing etek eras oats 166 
Table 9-12: DCs to Break or 

Byes 0) Ce aa iene ws 166 
Table 10-1: Items Affected by 

Magical Attacks ..............0...004 177 


4 


» 

Introduction 

This is the DuNcEons & Dracons® Roleplaying Game, the game 

that defines the genre and has set the standard for fantasy role- 
playing for more than 30 years. | 

D&D® is a game of your imagination in which you participate 
vin thrilling adventures and dangerous quests by taking on the role | 
[ofa hero—a character you create. Your character might be a strong | 

fighter or a clever rogue, a devout cleric or a powerful wizard. 

With a few trusted allies at your side, you explore ruins and mon- 

_ster- -filled dungeons in search of treasure. The game offers endless] 

possibilities and a multitude of choices—more choices than even 

he most sophisticated computer game, because you can do what- 

ever you can imagine. 


fr D&D GAME 


The D&D game is a fantasy game of your imagination. It’s part acting, 
[part stor storytelling, part social interaction, part war game, and part dice | 
rolling, You and your friends create characters that develop and grow, 
with each adventure they complete. One player is the Dungeon | 
Master (DM). The DM controls the monsters and enemies, narrates 
the action, referees the game, and sets up the adventures. Together, 
the Dungeon Master and the players make the game come alive. 

This Player’s Handbook has all the rules players need to create 
characters, select equipment, and engage in combat with a variety 
of supernatural and mythical foes. 

The Dungeon Master's Guide, available separately, provides the DM 
with advice, guidelines, and everything he or she needs to create 
\challenges, adventures, and full-fledged D&D campaigns, includ- 
Ling sections on prestige classes, magic items, and character rewards. 
| The Monster Manual, available separately, contains material that 
‚players and DMs alike will find useful. With hundreds of mon- 
\sters to populate all levels of dungeons, this tome also includes 
‘monster creation rules, information on playing monsters as char- 
acters, details on monster tactics, and powered-up versions of stan- 
dard creatures. 

Together, these three volumes comprise the core rules for the. 
Dunceons & Dracons game. 


a 


The Duncgons & Dracons game is a game of imagination, but it is 
also a game of tactics and strategy. Miniatures and a battle grid pro- 
vide the best way to visualize the action. Miniatures, representing 
characters and monsters in the game, can be purchased from most 
hobby shops. The Dungeon Master’s Guide includes a paper battle 


_grid. More durable versions may be purchased separately. 


uf - 7 


The game assumes the use of miniatures and a battle grid, and, 
the rules are written from this perspective. | 


= — 4 


_ Your characters star in the adventures you play, just like the heroes 
of a book or movie. As a player, you create a character using the 
rules in this book. Your character might be a savage barbarian 
from the frozen wastes or a clever rogue with a quick wit and a, 
quicker blade. You might be a deadly archer trained in survival | 
| techniques or a wizard who has mastered the arcane arts. As your | 
character participates in adventures, he or she gains experience 
and becomes more powerful. 


Your character is an adventurer, a hero who sets out on epic quests 

|for fortune and glory. Other characters join your adventuring. 

\party to explore dungeons and battle monsters such as the terrible 

dragon or the carnivorous troll. These quests unfold as stories cre- 
ated by the actions your characters perform and the situations ; 
your DM presents. 

A Duncgons & Dracons adventure features plenty of action, | 
exciting combat, terrifying monsters, epic challenges, and all 
kinds of mysteries to uncover. What lies at the heart of the dun- 
geon? What waits around the next corner or behind the next 
door? Playing the roles of your characters, you and your friends, 
face the dangers and explore a world of medieval fantasy._ 

One adventure might play out ina single game session; another | 
might stretch across several sessions of play. A session lasts as long | 
as you and your friends want to play, from a couple of hours to an | 
all-day affair. The game can be stopped at any time and picked up | 
wherever you left off when everyone gets back together. 

Every adventure is different, every quest unique. Your character 
might explore ancient ruins guarded by devious traps or loot the 
tomb of a long-forgotten wizard. You might sneak into a castle to 
spy on an enemy or face the life-draining touch of an undead crea- 
ture. Anything is possible in a Dunczons & Dracons game, and 
your character can try to do anything you can imagine. 


+ 


4 


THREE DIMENSIONS: PLAYING THE GAME 


Duncerons & Dracons uses a core mechanic to resolve all actions 
in the game. This central game rule keeps play fast and intuitive. 

The Core Mechanic: Whenever you attempt an action that has 
some chance of failure, you roll a twenty-sided die (d20). To deter- 
mine if your character succeeds at a task (such as attacking a mon- 
ster or using a skill), you do this: 


WHY A REVISION? 

The new Dunceons & Dracons game debuted in 2000. In the three 
years since the d20 Game System energized the RPG industry, we’ve 
gathered tons of data on how the game is being played. We consider 
D&D to be a living game that constantly evolves as it is played. 

We've gathered feedback from as many people who have played 
D&D as we could. We've talked to you at conventions, examined count- 
less message boards devoted to the game, and collected information 
from a variety of customer-response outlets including our customer 
service department. We used all this data to retool the game from the 
ground up and incorporate everyone’s suggestions. We listened to 
what you had to say, and we responded enthusiastically to improve the 
game and this product. 

If this is your first experience with D&D, we welcome you to a wonder- 
ful world of adventure and imagination. If you used the prior version of 


this book, rest assured that this revision is a testament to our dedication 
to continuous product improvement. We’ve updated errata, clarified 
rules, and made the game even better than it was. But also rest assured 
that this is an upgrade of the d20 System, not a new edition of the game. 
This revision is compatible with all existing products, and those prod- 
ucts can be used with the revision with only minor adjustments. 

What’s new in the revised Player's Handbook? We've increased the 
number of feats and spells to choose from, and we've added new class 
features to the barbarian, bard, druid, monk, ranger, and sorcerer. The 
entire book has been polished and refined, all in response to your feed- 
back and to reflect the way the game is actually being played. We've 
streamlined some rules, expanded others. We've overhauled skills and 
spells. 

Take a look, play the game. We think you'll like how everything 
turned out. 


e Rolla d20. 
e Add any relevant modifiers. 
e Compare the result toa target number. —— — 

If the result equals or exceeds the target number (set by the DM 
or given in the rules), your character succeeds. If the result is, 
lower than the target number, you fail. 


THE RULES 


Important: You don't have to memorize this book to play the} 
_game. Once you understand the basics, start playing! Use this | 
book as a reference during play. When in doubt, stick to the basics, | 
_keep playing, and have fun. _ 

One part of the book you may end up referring to frequently, at 
least for a while, is the glossary that begins on page 304. Here's 
where you'll find definitions of the terms we use in the rules and 
information on how a character is affected by certain conditions 

(such_as being stunned). If you come across a term you're not 
familiar with and you want to know more, look it up in the glos-| 
sary (and also check the index, of course). | 


WHAT YOU_NEED TO PLAY 

Your group needs these items to play D&D. 

e The Players Handbook, Dungeon Masters Guide, and Monster 
Manual revised core rulebooks. (All players might want to have 
their own copies of the books.) 

* A copy of the character sheet at the back of this book for each 

_ player. 

Le _A battle grid. The Dungeon Master's Guide contains one. 
[e Miniatures to represent each character and the monsters that 
challenge them. 

Le A set of dice for each player. A set of dice includes at least one 
four-sided die (d4), four six-sided dice (dé), one eight-sided die 
(d8), two ten-sided dice (d10), one twelve-sided die (d12), and 
one twenty-sided die (d20). 

e Pencils, scrap paper, and graph paper to keep notes and to map 
the locations your characters will explore. 


DICE 


We describe dice rolls with expressions such as “3d4+3,” which | 
means “roll three four-sided dice and add 3” (resulting in a number | 
between 6 and 15). The first number tells you how many dice to} 
roll (adding the results together). The number immediately after 
the “d” tells you the type of die to use. Any number after that indi- 
cates a quantity that is added or subtracted from the result. Some 
examples include: 

1d8: One eight-sided die, generating a number from 1 to 8. This 
is the amount of damage a longsword deals. 

1d8+2: One eight-sided die plus 2, generating a number from 3 

{to 10. A character with a +2 Strength bonus deals this amount of 
_damage when using a longsword. 

2d4+2: Two four-sided dice plus 2, resulting in a number from 
4 to 10. This is the amount of damage a 3rd-level wizard deals with 
a magic missile spell. 

d%: Percentile dice work a little differently. You generate a 
number between 1 and 100 by rolling two different-colored ten- 
sided dice. One color (designated before you roll) is the tens digit. 
The other is the ones digit. Rolls of 7 and 1, for example, give you 
a result of 71. Two 0s represent 100. Some percentile dice show the 


t 


+ 


WHAT CHARACTERS CAN DO 


sults. The DM may make some rolls in secret to build suspense, 


and maintain mystery. 


LA character can try to do anything you can imagine, just as long as 
lit fits the scene the DM describes. Depending on the situation, 
your character might want to listen at a door, search an area, bar- 
gain with a shopkeeper, talk to an ally, jump across a pit, move, use 
an item, or attack an opponent. 
Characters accomplish tasks by making skill checks, ability] 


| checks, or attack rolls, using the core mechanic. 


Skill Checks 


4 


+ 


—_—_+} 


t 
4 


To make a skill check, roll a d20 and add your character's skill, 


modifier. Compare the result to the Difficulty Class (DC) of the | 


task at hand. 
__An unopposed skill check’s success depends on your result 


+ 


compared to a DC set by the DM or the skill’s description (see, 


\Chapter 4). 
| An opposed skill check’s success depends on your result com- 


+ 


pared to the result of the character opposing your action. The | 
opponent's check might be made using the same skill or a differ- 


ent skill, as set forth in the skill’s description. 


Ability Checks 


Ability checks are used when a character doesn't have a any ranksin 


a skill and tries to use that skill untrained. (Some skills, however, | 


can't be used untrained.) 


E +- 
Ability checks are also used to determine success when no > skill 


applies. 


—— — 


To make an ability ch check, roll a d20 and add your character's J 


modifier for the appropriate ability. 


Attack Rolls 


To attack an opponent, roll a d20 and add your character’s attack 
bonus. If the result equals or exceeds the opponent’s Armor Class 
(AC), the attack succeeds. 

On a successful attack, roll the dice indicated for the we weapon 
you used to determine how much damage your attack deals. 

Damage reduces hit points (hp). When all of a character's hit 
points are gone, the character falls unconscious and is dying. (See 
Chapter 8: Combat for details.) 

A critical hit deals more damage. If yc you roll a natural 20 on an 
attack roll, you threaten a critical hit. Roll again to confirm it. If the 
second attack roll is successful, then the critical hit is confirmed 
and you deal more damage (see page 140 for more information). 


THE COMBAT ROUND 


Combat is played in rounds. Each round represents 6 seconds in 
the game world, regardless of how long it takes to play out the 
round. Combat starts with initiative checks to determine the 
order of play for the entire battle. There are three types of actions: 
standard actions, move actions, and full-round actions. In a round, 
you can do one of these four things: Take a standard action and 
then a move action; take a move action and then a standard action; 
take two move actions; or perform a full-round action. (See Chap- 
ter 8: Combat for details.) 


anil 


t 


+ 


tens digit in tens (00, 10, 20, etc.) and the ones digit in ones (0, 1, 2, THE PLAYER’ S RO LE 
_etc.). In this case, a roll of 70 and 4 is 71, and 00 and 0 is 100. 
__ Important! Not every action requires a die roll. Roll dice in 
combat and other dramatic situations when success is never a cer- 
ja : 
| The d20is s used to determine whether or not your character suc- 
‚ceeds at an action. The other dice are used to determine what hap- 
pens after you succeed. | 


Players should roll dice openly so that everyone can see the re- | 


comfortable and there's a place to set the battle grid and miniatures, { 
‘roll the dice, and spread out your books and character sheets. | 
| _ The DM sets each scene and describes the action. It’s your job to 
| decide what your character is like, how he or she relates to the other 
adventurers, and act accordingly. You can play a serious paladin or a 


F 


wisecracking rogue, a reckless barbarian or a cautious wizard. With 
your character in mind, respond to each situation as it comes up. 
Sometimes combat is called for, but other situations might be 
solved through magic, negotiation, or judicious skill use. _ 

Also consider how you respond. Do you narrate your character's _ 
action (“Tordek moves to the doorway and attacks the bugbear”) or 
speak as your character (“I move to the doorway and take a mighty | 
[swing at the monster”)? Either method is fine, and you can even | 

[vary your approach to match the situation. 
D&D is a social experience as well as an imaginative one. Be | 
and most of | 


+ 


creative, be daring, and be true to your character ... 
lall, have fun! 


Review Chapters 1 through 5, then follow these steps to create a 
1st-level character. You need a photocopy of the character sheet, a 
pencil, scrap paper, and four 6-sided dice. ł 


CHECK WITH YOUR DUNGEON MASTER | 


Your DM may have house rules or campaign standards that vary, 
from these rules. You should also find out what the other players 
have created so that your character fits into the group. 


ROLL ABILITY SCORES 


Roll your character's six ability scores. Determine each score by 
rolling four six-sided dice, ignoring the lowest die roll, and total- 
l ing the other three. Record your six results on scrap paper. 
| See Chapter 1 (beginning on the next page) for more details. 


| 
CHOOSE YOUR CLASS AND RACE 


Choose your class and race at the same time, because some races 
_are better suited to certain classes. The classes, detailed in Chapter 
13, are barbarian, bard, cleric, druid, fighter, monk, paladin, ranger, 
‘rogue, sorcerer, and wizard. Each class description includes a 
“Races” section that provides some advice. 

The races, described in Chapter 2, are human, dwarf, elf, gnome, 
halfling, half-elf, and half-orc. z } 


Write your class and race selections on your character sheet. 


| 


ASSIGN AND ADJUST ABILITY SCORES _ | 


Now that you know your character's class and race, take the ability | 
scores you rolled earlier and assign each to one of the six abilities: 
Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma. Adjust these scores up or down, according to your race, 
as indicated on Table 2-1: Racial Ability Adjustments (page 12). 
Put high scores in abilities that support your class selection. 
„Each class description includes an “Abilities” section that provides 
some advice. 
__ For each ability score, record the character's modifier, as indi- 
cated on Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells (page 8). 
Ability modifiers adjust many die rolls in the game, including 
attack rolls, damage rolls, skill checks, and saving throws. 
Record your adjusted ability scores and their modifiers on your 
character sheet. 


REVIEW THE STARTING PACKAGE. 


There is at least one starting package at the end of each class 
description. Look at your class’s starting package. It offers a fast 
_way to complete the next several steps of character creation. If you 
like the feat, skills, and equipment listed there, record this infor- 
{sen on your character sheet. Otherwise, use this information 


as a guide and make your own decisions. 


RECORD RACIAL AND CLASS FEATURES 


Your character's race and class provide certain features. Most of | 


these are automatic, but some involve making choices and thinking | 
i 


ahead about upcoming character creation steps. Feel free to look. 

ahead or to backtrack and do something over if you need to. | 
SELECT SKILLS 4 
{Your character's class and Intelligence modifier determine how 
_many skill points you have to buy skills (see page 62). 

Skills are measured in ranks. Each rank adds +1 to skill checks 
made using a specific skill. 

At 1st level, you can buy as many as 4 ranks in a class skill (a, 
‚skill on your class's list of class skills) for 4 skill points, or as many | 
las 2 ranks in a cross-class skill (a skill from another class's list of | 

class skills) for the same cost. (You get more out of purchasing 
class skills.) 
Buying skills goes faster if you spend 4 skill points ts (your m maxi- 
mum) on every skill you buy, as we've done in the starting packages. | 
Once you've selected your skills, determine the skill modifier 
‚for each one. To do this, add the skill ranks to the ability modifier 
{associated with the skill and record it on your character sheet. , 
4 Table 4-2: Skills (page 63) lists all skills in the game and indi- 
cates which skills are class skills for which classes. 


SELECT A FEAT 


Each tst-level character starts with one feat. Table 5-1: Feats (page | 
90) lists all feats, their prerequisites (if any), and a brief description. 


REVIEW DESCRIPTION CHAPTER 


Look over Chapter 6: Description. It helps you detail y your charac: 
iter. You can handle this now or wait until later. — d 


SELECT EQUIPMENT ae 
Use the equipment from your class’s starting package, or ran-_ 
domly determine your starting gold (see page 111) and buy your. 
own gear piece by piece, using the information in Chapter 7: 
Equipment. 


RECORD COMBAT NUMBERS 


Determine these statistics and record them on your character 
sheet. 

Hit Points: Your hit points (hp) determine how hard your char- 
acter is to kill. At 1st level, wizards and sorcerers get 4 hp; rogues 
and bards get 6 hp; clerics, druids, monks, and rangers get 8 hp; 
fighters and paladins get 10 hp; and barbarians get 12 hp. To this 


+ 


number, add your character's Constitution modifier. 

Armor Class: Your Armor Class (AC) determines how hard 
your character is to hit. Add the following numbers together to get 
your AC: 10 + your armor bonus + your shield bonus + your size 
modifier + your Dexterity modifier. 

Initiative: Your character's initiative modifier equals your Dex- 
terity modifier. The Improved Initiative feat provides an addi- 
tional modifier if you selected it. 

Attack Bonuses: Your class determines your base attack bonus. 
To determine your melee attack bonus for when you get into close- 
combat fights, add your Strength modifier to your base attack bonus. 
To determine your ranged attack bonus for when you attack from a 
distance, add your Dexterity modifier to your base attack bonus. 

Saving Throws: Your class determines your base saving throw. 
bonuses. To these numbers, add your Constitution modifier to get | 
your Fortitude save, your Dexterity modifier to get your Reflex | 
save, and your Wisdom modifier to get your Will save. 


DETAILS, DETAILS, DETAILS 


Now jee a name for your character, determine the characters] | 
„gender, choose an alignment, decide the character’s age and | 
‘appearance, and so on. Chapter 6: Description can help with this. 

There's no need to develop your character completely. With 
|your DM's permission, you can always add or even change details 
as you play and get a better feel for your character. 


— + 
—4 
| 


vertical 


rotation 


nif 
/ 


| Delhis 


AESTHETICS 
OF HUMAN 
ANATOMY 

COPS 

MaLeEsuBJECT 

| APPROX. AGE 30 


ust about every die roll you make is going to be modified 

based on your character's abilities. A tough character has 

a better chance of surviving a wyvern’s poison sting. A 

perceptive character is more likely to notice bugbears 

sneaking up from behind. A stupid character is not as 

likely to find a secret door that leads to a hidden treasure 

chamber. Your ability scores tell you'what'your modifiers are for 
rolls suchas these. 

Your character has six en Strength (abbreviated Str), Dex- 
terity (Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom 
(Wis), and Charisma (Cha). Each of your character's above-aver- 
age abilities gives you a benefit on certain die rolls, and each 
below-average ability gives you a disadvantage on other die rolls. 
When creating your character, you roll your scores randomly, 
assign them to the abilities as you like, and raise and lower them 
according to the character’s race. Later, you can increase them as 
your character advances in experience. 


`J To create an ability score for your character, roll = six-sided 


dice (4d6). Disregard the lowest die roll and total the three high- 
est ones. The result is a number between 3 (horrible) and 18 
(tremendous). The average ability score for a typical commoner is 
10 or11, but your character is not typical. The most common abil- 
ity scores for player characters (PCs) are 12 and\13. (That's right, 
the average player character is above average.) | 


paper. Once you have six scores, assign each 


character is going to be, including his or her race and class, in 


Y KG. Sh 


Make this roll six times, recording each esi It on a piece of , 
re to one of the six | 
abilities. At this step, you need to know what kind of person your ` 


Pt oe) : É 


pym p hq -snyy 


order to know how best to distribute the ability scores. 
Choosing a race other than human or half-elf causes some 
of these ability scores to change (see Table 2-1: Racial Abil- 
ity Adjustments, page 12). 


ABILITY MODIFIERS 


Each ability, after changes made because of race, has a mod- 
ifier ranging from —5 to +5. Table 1—1: Ability Modifiers 
and Bonus Spells (on the next page) shows the modifier 
for each score. It-also shows bonus spells, which you'll 
need to know about if your characteris aspellcaster. 
The modifier is the number you apply to the die roll 
when your character tries to do something related to 
that ability. For instance, you apply your character's 
Strength modifier to your roll when he or she tries to 
hit someone with.a sword. You also use the modifier 
with some numbers that aren't die rolls—for example, 
you apply your character's Dexterity modifier to his or 
her Armor Class (AC). A positive modifier is called a 
bonus, and a negative modifier is called a penalty. 


ABILITIES AND SPELLCASTERS 


The ability that governs bonus spells (see Chapter 3: 
Classes) depends on what type of spellcaster your 
character is: Intelligence for wizards; Wisdom for 
clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers; or/Charisma 
for sorcerers and bards. In addition to having a high 
ability score} a\spellcaster must be of high enough class 
level to be able to cast spells of a given spell level. 
(See the class descriptions in Chapter 3 for details.) 

For instance; the wizard Mialee has an Intelligence 


INO dadLdVHO 


© 


20 


84 


TABLE 1—1: ABILITY MODIFIERS AND BONUS SPELLS 


Bonus Spells (by Spell Level) 


3rd 4th 5th __ 6th 7th 8th 9th 


Can't cast spells tied to this ability 


Can’t cast spells tied to this ability 


Can't cast spells tied to this ability 


Can’t cast spells tied to this ability 


Score Modifier 0 Ist 2nd 

1 -5 

2-3 —4 

4-5 -3 

6-7 —2 

8-9 -] 
10-11 0 
12-13 +1 — ] — — 
14-15 +2 — 1 ] — 
16-17 +3 — 1 1 Il 
118-19 +4 — 1 ] 1 
20-21 +5 — 2 1 I 
22-23 +6 — 2 2 l 
24-25 +7 — 2 2 2 
26-27 +8 — 2 2 2 
28-29 +9 — 3 2 2 
30-31 +10 — 3 3 2 
32-33 +11 — 3 3 3 
34-35 +12 — 3 3 3 
36-37 +13 — 4 3 3 
38-39 +14 — 4 4 3 
40—41 +15 — 4 4 4 
42—43 +16 — 4 4 4 
44—45 +17 — 5 4 4 
etc. 


l score of 15, so she’s smart enough to get one bonus 1st-level spell 
land one bonus 2nd-level spell. (She will not actually get the bonus 
| 2nd-level spell until she is a 3rd-level wizard, since that’s the min- 
imum level a wizard must be to cast 2nd-level spells.) 

If your character's ability score is 9 or lower, you can't cast spells 
[tied to that ability. For example, if Mialee’s Intelligence score 
dropped to 9 because of a poison that reduces intellect, she would 
not be able to cast even her simplest spells until cured. 


REROLLING 


If your scores are too low, you may scrap them and roll all six) 


scores again. Your scores are considered too low if the sum of your | 
modifiers (before adjustments because of race) is 0 or lower, or if. 


your highest score is 13 or lower. 


Each ability partially describes your character and affects some of 
his or her actions. 

The description of each ability includes a list of races and crea- 
[tures along with their average scores in that ability. (Not every 
[creature has a score in every ability, as you'll see when you look at 
the lists that follow.) These scores are for an average, young adult 

creature of the indicated race or kind, such as a dwarf tax collector, 
a halfling merchant, or an unexceptional gnoll. An adyenturer— 
say, a dwarf fighter or a gnoll ranger—probably has better scores, 
at least in the abilities that matter most to that character, and 
player characters are above average overall. 


STRENGTH (STR) 


Strength measures your character's muscle and physical power. 
This ability is especially important for fighters, barbarians, pal- 
adins, rangers, and monks because it helps them prevail in 

combat. Strength also limits the amount of equipment your char- 

[icter can carry (see Chapter 9: Adventuring). 
|__ You apply your character's Strength modifier to: 
{e Melee attack rolls. 


* Damage rolls when using a melee weapon or a thrown weapon | 
(including a sling). (Exceptions: Off-hand attacks receive only 


Can’t cast spells tied to this ability 


So Soy a S- e- 
BRwWWWWNNNN -eE -e 
iuo [09 ws RN E- fa 
WBWWNNNNE SL a 
WWNNNNFZAA = | 
WNNNN HAH a 


one-half the characters Strength bonus, while two-handed | 
attacks receive one and a half times the Strength bonus. A. 
Strength penalty, but not a bonus, applies to attacks made with | 
a bow that is not a composite bow.) 

* Climb, Jump, and Swim checks. These are the skills that have] 
Strength as their key ability. 

* Strength checks (for breaking down doors and the like). 


AVERAGE STRENGTH SCORES 


Average 
Modifier 


Average 
Example Race or Creature Kind Strength 
Allip, shadow, will-o’-wisp — — 
Lantern archon, bat, toad 1 -5 
Rat swarm 2 —4 
Stirge, monkey, Tiny monstrous spider. 3 
Grig, Small monstrous centipede 4-5 
Hawk, cockatrice, pixie 6-7 2 
Quasit, badger 8-9 


Human, beholder, dire rat 10-11 +0 
Mind flayer, dog, pony, ghoul 12-13 +1 
Gnoll, dire badger, baboon, manta ray 14-15 +2 
Black pudding, choker, Large shark 16-17 +3 
Centaur, displacer beast, minotaur 18-19 +4 
Ape, ogre, flesh golem, gorgon 20-21 T5 
Fire giant, triceratops, elephant 30-31 +10 
Great wyrm gold dragon 46—47 +18 


DEXTERITY (DEX) 


Dexterity measures hand-eye coordination, agility, reflexes, and bal- ; 
ance. This ability is the most important one for rogues, but it's also | 
high on the list for characters who typically wear light or medium | 
armor (rangers and barbarians) or no armor at all (monks, wizards, | 
_and sorcerers), and for anyone who wants to be a skilled archer. 
You apply your character's Dexterity modifier to: 
e Ranged attack rolls, including those for attacks made with | 
bows, crossbows, throwing axes, and other ranged weapons. 
[e Armor Class (AC), provided that the character can react to the attack. 
\* Reflex saving throws, for avoiding fireballs and other attacks 
that you can escape by moving quickly. 


e Balance, Escape Artist, Hide, Move Silently, 
Sleight of Hand, Tumble, and Use Rope checks. These are the 
skills that have Dexterity as their key ability. 


AVERAGE DEXTERITY SCORES 


Average Average 

_Example Race or Creature Kind Dexterity Modifier 
| Shrieker (fungus) — — 
| Gelatinous cube (ooze) 1 -5 
¿Colossal animated object 4-5 -3 
| Purple worm, ogre zombie —_ 6-7 -2 
_ Ogre, basilisk, fire giant, tendriculos 8-9 =I 
Human, triton, boar, giant fire beetle 10-11 +0 
Bugbear, lammasu, hobgoblin 12-13 +1 
Displacer beast, hieracosphinx 14-15 +2 
Blink dog, wraith, lion, octopus 16-17 +3 
„Astral deva (angel), ethereal filcher 18-19 +4 
,Arrowhawk, bone devil 20-21 +5 
| Elder air elemental 32-33 +11 


CONSTITUTION (CON) 


Constitution represents your character’s health and stamina. A 
Constitution bonus increases a character's hit points, so the ability 
is important for all classes. 

You apply your character’s Constitution modifier to: 

* Each roll of a Hit Die (though a penalty can never drop a result 
below 1—that is, a character always gains at least 1 hit point 
each time he or she advances in level). 

e Fortitude saving throws, for resisting poison and similar threats. 


[e Concentration checks. Concentration is a skill, important to 


spellcasters, that has Constitution as its key ability. 
If a character’s Constitution score changes enough to alter his 
_or her Constitution modifier, the character's hit points also in- 


| crease or decrease accordingly. 


AVERAGE CONSTITUTION SCORES 


_ Average __ Average _ 

Example Race or Creature Kind Constitution Modifier 
Ghoul, mummy, shadow — — 
Centipede swarm, locust swarm 8-9 =] 
Human, imp, dire weasel, grick 10-11 +0 
Rust monster, medusa, otyugh, nymph 12-13 +1 
Light horse, merfolk, troglodyte 14-15 +2 
Tiger, chimera, assassin vine = 16-17 +3 
Polar bear, gargoyle, umber hulk 18-19 +4 
Elephant, aboleth, tyrannosaurus 20-21 +5 
The tarrasque 35 +12 


INTELLIGENCE (INT) 


Intelligence determines how well your character learns and rea- 
isons. This ability is important for wizards because it affects how 


many spells they can cast, how hard their spells are to resist, and 
how powerful their spells can be. It’s also important for any char- 
acter who wants to have a wide assortment of skills. 
You apply your character's Intelligence modifier to: 
e The number of languages your character knows at the start of 
the game. 
e The number of skill points its gained each level. (But your charac- 
ter always gets at least 1 skill point per level.) 


e Appraise, Craft, Decipher Script, Disable Device, Forgery, 


jt 


Knowledge, Search, and Spellcraft checks. These are the skills 
that have Intelligence as their key ability. 
_A wizard gains bonus spells based on her Intelligence score. 
Tithe: minimum Intelligence score needed to cast a wizard spell is 
10 + the spell’s level. 


Open Lock, Ride, | 


+ 


4 


4- 


An animal has an Intelligence score of 1 or 2. A creature of hu-| 


manlike intelligence has a score of at least 3. 


AVERAGE INTELLIGENCE SCORES 


Average Average } 
Example Race or Creature Kind Intelligence Modifier | 
Zombie, golem, ochre jelly — — | 
¿Carrion crawler, purple worm, camel 1 5 
| Tiger, hydra, dog, horse 2 —4 
¿Gray render, tendriculos, rast 3 -4 
Otyugh, griffon, displacer beast 4-5 -3 
Troll, hell hound, ogre, yrthak 6-7 -2 
, Troglodyte, centaur, gnoll 8-9 =] | 
| Human, bugbear, wight, night hag 10-11 +0 } 
Dragon turtle, cloud giant, lamia 2513 +l 
Invisible stalker, wraith, will-o’-wisp 14-15 +2 
Beholder, succubus, trumpet archon 16-17 43 | 
Mind flayer, death slaad, nightwing 18-19 +4 | 
Kraken, titan, nightcrawler 20-21 +5 
¿Great wyrm gold dragon 32-33 tus 


WISDOM (WIS) 


¿Wisdom describes a character’s willpower, common sense, per- 


ception, and intuition. While Intelligence represents one’s ability 
to analyze information, Wisdom represents being in tune with | 
and aware of one’s surroundings. An “absentminded professor” has 
low Wisdom and high Intelligence. A simpleton (low Intelli- 
gence) might still have great insight (high Wisdom). Wisdom is 
the most important ability for clerics and druids, and it is also 
important for paladins and rangers. If you want your character to | 


¡have acute senses, put a high score in Wisdom. Every creature has | 


a Wisdom score. 

You apply your character’s Wisdom modifier to: 

e Will saving throws (for negating the effect of charm person and] 
other spells). 

e Heal, Listen, Profession, Sense Motive, Spot, and Survival] 
checks. These are the skills that have Wisdom as their key 
ability. 

Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers get bonus spells | based on 
their Wisdom scores. The minimum Wisdom score needed to cast 

a cleric, druid, paladin, or ranger spell is 10 + the spell’s level. 


T 


AVERAGE WISDOM SCORES 


Average Average 
Example Race or Creature Kind Wisdom Modifier 
Gelatinous cube (ooze), animated object 1 -5 
Shrieker (fungus) y -4 
Red slaad, githyanki 6-7 -2 
Purple worm, grimlock, troll 8-9 -] 
Human, lizardfolk, phantom fungus 10-11 +0 
Owlbear, hyena, shadow, remorhaz 12-13 +1 
Wraith, owl, giant praying mantis 14-15 a) 
Devourer, lillend, androsphinx 16-17 +3 
Couatl, erinyes devil, guardian naga 18-19 +4 
Unicorn, storm giant 20-21 +5 
Great wyrm gold dragon 32-33 +11 


CHARISMA (CHA) 


Charisma measures a character's force of personality, persuasive- 

ness, personal magnetism, ability to lead, and physical attractive-_ 
ness. This ability represents actual strength of personality, not | 
merely how one is perceived by others in a social setting. | 
Charisma is most important for paladins, sorcerers, and bards. It is | 


_also important for clerics, since it affects their ability to turn) 


undead. Every creature has a Charisma score. 


: { 
You apply your character’s Charisma modifier to: 


|e Bluff, Diplomacy, Disguise, Gather Information, Handle Anil 


mal, Intimidate, Perform, and Use Magic Device checks. These 
are the skills that have Charisma as their key ability. 
e Checks that represent attempts to influence others. 


+ 


e Turning checks for clerics and paladins attempting to turn 
zombies, vampires, and other undead. 
Sorcerers and bards get bonus spells based on their Charisma 
scores. The minimum Charisma score needed to cast a sorcerer or 


bard spell is 10 + the spell’s level. | 
AVERAGE CHARISMA SCORES j! 
= Average Average — | 
[Example Race or Creature Kind Charisma Modifier 4 
Zombie, golem, shrieker (fungus) 1 = } 
| Spider, crocodile, lizard, rhinoceros 2 —4 
į Tendriculos, octopus 3 = 
„Dire rat, weasel, chuul, donkey _ 4-5 3 
Badger, troll, giant fire beetle, bear 6-7 =) 
Gnoll, dire boar, manticore, gorgon 8-9 -1 
Human, wolverine, dretch (demon) 10-11 0 
_Treant, roper, doppelganger, night hag 12-13 +1 
‘Storm giant, barghest, medusa 14-15 T2 “tT 
Ogre mage, pixie, harpy, achaierai 16-17 +30 
{Greater barghest, nixie 18-19 +4 | 
Astral deva (angel), kraken 20-21 +5 
Great wyrm gold dragon 32-33 +11 


EXAMPLE OF GENERATING AND 
ASSIGNING ABILITY SCORES 


Monte wants to create a new character. He rolls four six-sided dice 
(4de) and gets 5, 4, 4, and 1. Ignoring the lowest roll (1), he records 
{the result on scratch paper: 13. He rolls the dice five more times and 
| gets these six scores: 13, 10, 15, 12, 8, and 14. Monte decides to play 
la strong, tough dwarf fighter. Now he assigns his scores to abilities. 
_ Strength gets the highest score, 15. His character has a +2 
{Strength bonus that will serve him well in combat. 

Constitution gets the next highest score, 14. The dwarf’s +2 
l racial bonus to Constitution (see Table 2-1: Racial Ability Adjust- 
‘ments, page 12) improves his Constitution score to 16, which 
gives him a +3 modifier. This bonus gives the character more hit 
points and better Fortitude saving throws. 

Monte puts his lowest score, 8, into Charisma. The dwarf’s | 
racial penalty to Charisma (see Table 2-1) reduces his Charisma] | 
score to 6, for a —2 penalty. 

Monte has two bonus-range scores left (13 and 12), plus ; aai 
average score (10). Dexterity gets the 13 (+1 bonus), which helps 
with ranged weapon attacks and with Reflex saving throws. 
(Monte’s also thinking ahead. A Dexterity score of 13 qualifies his 
character for the Dodge feat—see Table 5—1: Feats, page 90). 

Wisdom gets the 12 (+1 bonus). The Wisdom bonus helps with 
perception skills, such as Spot and Listen (see Table 4-2: Skills, 

„page 63), as well as with Will saving throws. 


Intelligence gets the 10 (no bonus or penalty). An average Intel- 
ligence isn't bad for a fighter. 

Monte records his character's race, class, ability scores, and abil- 
ity modifiers on his character sheet. 


-= + 
+ 


se) a 


‘Over time, the ability scores your character starts with can change. 

Ability scores can increase with no limit. Points at which ability, 

changes occur include the following 9° — < — < —ć — — — ~ — Ž Ž — 

|e Add 1 point to any score upon attaining 4th level and at every] 
fourth level your character attains thereafter (8th, 12th, 16th, 
and 20th level). 

e Many spells and magical effects temporarily ir increase or, 
decrease ability scores. The ray of enfeeblement spell reduces a| 
creature's Strength, and the bulls strength spell increases it. 
Sometimes a spell hampers a character, reducing his or her abil- 
ity score. A character trapped by an entangle spell, for example, . 
acts as if his or her Dexterity were 4 points lower than it really is., 

* Several magic items improve ability scores as long as the char- 
acter is using them. For example, gloves of Dexterity improve the , 
wearer's Dexterity score. (Magic items are described in the. 
Dungeon Master's Guide.) Note that a magic item of this type can't | 
change an ability score by more than +6. 

* Some rare magic items can boost an ability score permanently, 
as can a wish spell. Such an increase is called an inherent bonus. , 
An ability score can't have an inherent bonus of more than +5. | 

je Poisons, diseases, and other effects can temporarily harm an | 
ability (ability damage). Ability points lost to damage return on | 
their own at a rate of 1 point per day for each damaged ability. 

e Some effects drain abilities, resulting in a permanent loss (abil-, 
ity drain). Points lost this way don’t return on their own, aii 
they can be regained with spells, such as restoration. 

e As a character ages, some ability scores go up and others go! 
down. See Table 6-5: Aging Effects (page 109). ates 
When an ability score changes, all attributes associated with that 

score change accordingly. For example, when Mialee becomes a 

4th-level wizard, she decides to increase her Intelligence score to 

16. That score gives her a 3rd-level bonus spell (which she'll pick up 

upon attaining 5th level, when she becomes able to cast 3rd-level 

spells), and it also increases the number of skill points she gets per 
level from 4 to 5 (2 per level for her class, plus another 3 per level 
from her Intelligence bonus). As a new 4th-level character, she can 
get the skill points immediately after raising her Intelligence, so 
she'll get 5 points for attaining 4th level in the wizard class. She 
does not retroactively get additional points for her previous levels 

(that is, skill points she would have gained if she had had an Intel- 

ligence score of 16 starting at 1st level). 


+ 


INTELLIGENCE, WISDOM, AND CHARISMA 
You can use your character’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores to guide you in roleplaying your character. Here is some back- 
ground (just guidelines) about what these scores can mean. 

A smart character (one with high Intelligence) is curious, knowledge- 
able, and prone to using big words. A character with a high Intelligence but 
low Wisdom may be smart but absentminded, or knowledgeable but lack- 
ing in common sense. A character with high Intelligence but low Charisma 
may be a know-it-all or a reclusive scholar. A smart character lacking in 
both Wisdom and Charisma may put her foot in her mouth often. 

A character with low Intelligence mispronounces and misuses 
words, has trouble following directions, or fails to get the joke. 

A character with high Wisdom may be sensible, serene, “in tune,” 
alert, or centered. A character with high Wisdom but low Intelligence 
may be aware, but simple. A character with high Wisdom but low 


Charisma knows enough to speak carefully and may become an advi- 
sor (or “power behind the throne”) rather than a leader. The wise char- 
acter lacking in both Intelligence and Charisma is uncouth and unso- 
phisticated. 

A character with a low Wisdom score may be rash, imprudent, irre- 
sponsible, or “out of it.” 

A character with high Charisma may be attractive, striking, person- 
able, and confident. A character with high Charisma but low 
Intelligence can usually pass herself off as knowledgeable, until she 
meets a true expert. A charismatic character with low Wisdom may be 
popular, but she doesn’t know who her real friends are. A charismatic 
character lacking in both Intelligence and Wisdom is likely to be shal- 
low and unaware of others’ feelings. 

A character with low Charisma may be reserved, gruff, rude, fawning, 
or simply nondescript. 


he elven woods are home to the elves and their allies. RACIAL CHARACTERISTICS 


Not many dwarves or half-orcs live there. In turn, elves, 
humans, halflings, and half-orcs are hard to find in 
underground dwarven cities. And while nonhumans may 
travel’through the human countryside, most country folk 

are humans. In the big cities, however, the promise of 
power and profit brings together people of all the common 
races: humans, dwarves, elves, gnomes, half-elves, half-orcs, 


and halflings. 


After you roll your ability scores and before you write them on 
your character sheet, choose your character's race. At the same 
time, you should choose a class, since race affects how well achar- 
acter can do in each class. Once you know your character's race 
and class, assign your ability score rolls to particular abilities, alter 
those abilities according to race, and continue detailing your 
character. 

You can play a character of any race and class combination, but 
certain races do better pursuing certain careers. Halflings, for 
example, can be fighters, but their small size and special features 
make them better as rogues. 

Your character's race gives you plenty of cues as to what sort of 
person he or she is, how he or she feels about characters of other 
races, and what his or her motivations might be. Remember, how- 
ever, that these descriptions apply only to the majority of each 
race’s members. In each race, some individuals diverge from the 
norm, and your character could be one of these. Don't let a 
description of a race keep you from detailing your character as 


ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS 


FAVORED CLASS 


pyemy p hq snr 


Your character’s race determines some of his or her 
qualities. 


Find your character's race on Table 2-1: Racial Ability 
Adjustments-(see the next page) and apply the adjustments 
you see there to your charactet’s ability scores. If these 
changes put your score above 18 or below 3, that’s okay, 
except in the case of Intelligence, which does not go 
below 3 for characters. (If your half-ore character would 
have an adjusted Intelligence of 1 or 2, make it 3 instead.) 
For example, Lidda, a halfling, Fassa +2 racial bonus 
on her Dexterity score and a —2 racial penalty on her 
Strength score: Knowing this, her player puts her best 
score rolled (15) iñ Dexterity so that it will increase to 
17. She doesn't want a Strength penalty, so she puts an 
above-average score (12)in Strength. Her Strength 
score drops to 10, which carries neither a bonus nor a 


penalty. 


Each race's favored class is also given on Table 2-1: 
Racial Ability Adjustments. A character's favored 
class doesn't count against him or her when deter- 
mining experience point penalties for multiclass- 
ing (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60). 

For example, as a halfling rogue, Lidda can add a 
second class later on (becoming a multiclass charac- 
ter) without worrying about an XP penalty, because 
rogue is the favored class for halflings. 


3 
S 
È 
Š 
z 
5 
» 
$ 
=> 
8 


TABLE 2-1: RACIAL ABILITY ADJUSTM ENTS _ 


t 
Í 
+ 


Liia 


Race Ability Adjustments Favored Class | 
Human None Any } 
Dwarf +2 Constitution, -2 Charisma Fighter. —t 
Elf +2 Dexterity, -2 Constitution Wizard L 
Gnome +2 Constitution, —2 Strength Bard j 
Half-elf None Any 
Half-orc +2 Strength, -2 Intelligence’, Barbarian 

-2 Charisma 
Halfling +2 Dexterity, -2 Strength Rogue 


1 A half-orc’s starting Intelligence score is always at least 3. If this 
adjustment would lower the character’s score to 1 or 2, his score is 
nevertheless 3. 


RACE AND LANGUAGES 


4 


4 


t 


In a big city, visitors can hear all manner of languages being 
spoken. Dwarves haggle over gems in Dwarven, elf sages engage 
in learned debates in Elven, and preachers call out prayers in 
Celestial. The language heard most, however, is Common, a 
tongue shared by all who take part in the culture at large. With all 
these languages in use, it is easy for people to learn other lan- 
guages, and adventurers often speak several tongues. 

All characters know how to speak Common. A dwarf, elf, 
gnome, half-elf, half-orc, or halfling also speaks a racial language, 
as appropriate. A smart character (one who had an Intelligence 
bonus at 1st level) speaks other languages as well, one extra lan- 


Select your character's bonus languages (if any) from the list 


[See per point of Intelligence bonus as a starting character. 


| found in his or her race’s description later in this chapter. 


Literacy: Any character except a barbarian can read and write 
all the languages he or she speaks. (A barbarian can become liter- | 
ate by spending skill points; see Illiteracy, page 25.) J 


Half Elf 


Class-Related Languages: Clerics, druids, and wizards can 
choose certain languages as bonus languages even if they're not on 
the lists found in the race descriptions. These class-related lan- 
guages are as follows: — 

Cleric: Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal. 

Druid: Sylvan. 

Wizard: Draconic. 


Most humans are the descendants of pioneers, conquerors, trad- 
ers, travelers, refugees, and other people on the move. As a result, 
human lands are home to a mix of people—physically, culturally, 
religiously, and politically different. Hardy or fine, light-skinned 
or dark, showy or austere, primitive or civilized, devout or impi- 
ous, humans run the gamut. 

Personality: Humans are the most adaptable, flexible, and ambi- 
tious people among the common races. They are diverse in their tastes, 
morals, customs, and habits. Others accuse them of having little 
respect for history, but it’s only natural that humans, with their rela- 
tively short life spans and constantly changing cultures, would have a 
shorter collective memory than dwarves, elves, gnomes, or halflings. | 

Physical Description: Humans typically stand from 5 feet to a | 
little over 6 feet tall and weigh from 125 to 250 pounds, with men | 
noticeably taller and heavier than women. Thanks to their pen- | 
humans are more physically diverse than other common races. | 
Their skin shades range from nearly black to very pale, their hair | 


chant for migration and conquest, and to their short life spans, , 


‘from black to blond (curly, kinky, or straight), and their facial hair 
| (for men) from sparse to thick. Plenty of humans have a dash of 
{nonhuman blood, and they may demonstrate hints of elf, orc, or 


other lineages. Members of this race are often ostentatious or 


Half’ Ore 


unorthodox in their grooming and dress, sporting unusual hair- 
styles, fanciful clothes, tattoos, body piercings, and the like. 
Humans have short life spans, reaching adulthood at about age 15, 
and rarely living even a single century. = ' 
Relations: Just as readily as they mix with each other, humans | 
mix with members of other races, among which they are known as; 
“everyone's second-best friends.” Humans serve as ambassadors, 
diplomats, magistrates, merchants, and functionaries of all kinds. 
Alignment: Humans tend toward no particular alignment, not 
even neutrality. The best and the worst are found among them. 
Human Lands: Human lands are usually in flux, with new 
ideas, social changes, innovations, and new leaders constantly 
„coming to the fore. Members of longer-lived races find human cul- 
| ture exciting but eventually a little wearying or even bewildering. 
Since humans lead such short lives, their leaders are all young 
_compared to the political, religious, and military leaders among 
the other races. Even where individual humans are conservative 
traditionalists, human institutions change with the generations, 
adapting and evolving faster than parallel institutions among the 
elves, dwarves, gnomes, and halflings. Individually and as a group, 
humans are adaptable opportunists, and they stay on top of chang- 
ing political dynamics. 
Human lands generally include relatively large numbers of 
nonhumans (compared, for instance, to the number of non- 
_dwarves who live in dwarven lands). i 
Religion: Unlike members of the other common races, humans 
do not have a chief racial deity. Pelor, the sun god, is the most com- 
[m nonly worshiped deity in human lands, but he can claim nothing 
|like the central place that the dwarves give Moradin or the elves 
_give Corellon Larethian in their respective pantheons. Some 
humans are the most ardent and zealous adherents of a given reli- | 
gion, while others are the most impious people around. 


4+—+—4 


Half Elf 


Language: Humans speak Common. They typically learn other 
languages as well, including obscure ones, and they are fond of 
sprinkling their speech with words borrowed from other tongues: 
Orc curses, Elven musical expressions, Dwarven military phrases, 
and so on. = i 

Names: Human names yary greatly. Without a unifying deity 
to give them a touchstone for their culture, and with such a fast 
breeding cycle, humans mutate socially at a fast rate. Human cul- 
ture, therefore, is more diverse than other cultures, and no human 
names are truly typical. Some human parents give their children 
dwarven or elven names (pronounced more or less correctly). 

Adventurers: Human adventurers are the most audacious, 
daring, and ambitious members of an audacious, daring, and ambi- 
tious race. A human can earn glory in the eyes of her fellows by 
amassing power, wealth, and fame. Humans, more than other 
people, champion causes rather than territories or groups. 


HUMAN RACIAL TRAITS — 


e Medium: As Medium creatures, humans have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

e Human base land speed is 30 feet. 

e 1 extra feat at 1st level, because humans are quick to master | 
specialized tasks and varied in their talents. See Chapter 5: Feats. | 

e 4 extra skill points at 1st level and 1 extra skill point at each | 
additional level, since humans are versatile and capable. (The 4 
skill points at 1st level are added on as a bonus, not multiplied 
in; see Chapter 4: Skills.) _ 


4 
,e Automatic Language: Common. Bonus Languages: Any (other | 


than secret languages, such as Druidic). See other racial lists for | 
common languages or the Speak Language skill (page 82) fora 
more comprehensive list. Humans mingle with all kinds of 
other folk and thus can learn any language found in an area. 


N 
S 
5 

S 
l 
hb 
S 
3 
N 
N 


13 


| 


° Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass hu- 
man takes an experience point penalty, her highest-level class 
does not count. (See XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60.) 


+ 


[stand physical and magical punishment, their knowledge of the, 
learth’s secrets, their hard work, and their capacity for drinking ale. } 
‚Their mysterious kingdoms, carved out from the insides of moun- | 
(tains, are renowned for the marvelous treasures that they produce | 
las gifts or for trade. — i 
__ Personality: Dwarves are slow to laugh or jest 
and suspicious of strangers, but they are amm 
generous to those few who earn 
their trust. Dwarves value gold, 
gems, jewelry, and art objects 
made with these precious 
materials, and they have 
been known to succumb 
to greed. They fight 
neither recklessly nor 
timidly, but with care- 
ful courage and tenacity. 
Their sense of justice is 
strong, but at its worst it can 
turn into a thirst for ven- 
[peance. Among gnomes, who 
| 
| 
L 
f 


ke 


get along famously with FAL, 

dwarves, a mild oath is “If rm hy 9 
lying, may I cross a dwarf.” 
| Physical Description: 

¿Dwarves stand only 4 to 
\4-1/2 feet tall, but they are 
[so broad and compact that 


3 

S 
È 
Š 
J 
BR 
© 
$ 
= 
8 


they are, on average, almost 

as heavy as humans. Dwarf 

men are slightly taller and 

noticeably heavier than 

dwarf women. Dwarves’ 

skin is typically deep tan 

or light brown, and their Fey 

eyes are dark. Their hair S 

is usually black, gray,or AS$ a 

brown, and worn long. f° 7 

Dwarf men value their (6 

beards highly and groom Y 

them very carefully. Dwarves 
favor simple styles for their hair, beards, and clothes. Dwarves are 
{considered adults at about age 40, and they can live to be more than 
1400 years old. 

Relations: Dwarves get along fine with gnomes, and passably 

with humans, half-elves, and halflings. Dwarves say, “The differ- 
ence between an acquaintance and a friend is about a hundred 


ing truly strong bonds with dwarves. The best dwarf—human 
friendship is often between a human and a dwarf who liked the 
humans parents and grandparents. Dwarves fail to appreciate elves’ 
subtlety and art, regarding elves as unpredictable, fickle, and 
flighty. Still, elves and dwarves have, through the ages, found 
¡common cause in battles against orcs, goblins, and gnolls. Through 
[many such joint campaigns, the elves have earned the dwarves’ 
‘grudging respect. Dwarves mistrust half-orcs in general, and the 
| feeling is mutual. Luckily, dwarves are fair-minded, and they grant 
‚individual half-orcs the opportunity to prove themselves. 
Alignment: Dwarves are usually lawful, and they tend toward | 
good, Adventuring dwarves are less likely to fit the common | 


4 


. Dwarves are known for their skill in warfare, their ability to with-| 


mold, however, since they're more likely to be those who did not, 
fit perfectly into dwarven society. | 
Dwarven Lands: Dwarven kingdoms usually lie deep. 
beneath the stony faces of mountains, where the dwarves mine | 
{gems and precious metals and forge items of wonder. Trustwor- 
_thy members of other races are welcome in such settlements, 
though some parts of these lands are off limits even to them. 
Whatever wealth the dwarves can’t find in their mountains, they 
gain through trade. Dwarves dislike water travel, so enterprising, 
humans frequently handle trade in dwarven goods when travel, 
lis along a water route. a: } 
Dwarves in human lands are typically mercenaries, weapon- 
smiths, armorsmiths, jewelers, and artisans. Dwarf bodyguards are 
renowned for their courage and loyalty, and they are well, 
`A, rewarded for their virtues. Se | 
Ñ Religion: The chief deity of the dwarves is Moradin, the 
‘\ Soul Forger. He is the creator of the dwarves, and he 
expects his followers to work for the betterment of the. 
dwarf race. | 
Language: Dwarves speak Dwarven, which has its 
own runic script. Dwarven literature is marked by , 
comprehensive histories of kingdoms and wars. 
through the millennia. The Dwarven alphabet is also | 
used (with minor variations) for the Gnome, Giant, 
Goblin, Orc, and Terran languages. Dwarves often 
speak the languages of their friends (humans and 
gnomes) and enemies. Some also learn Terran, the | 
strange language of earth-based creatures such as xorns. | 
Names: A dwarf’s name is granted to him by his clan | 
elder, in accordance with tradition. Every proper dwarven | 
name has been used and reused down through the genera- | 
| tions. A dwarf’s name is not his own. It belongs to his clan. | 
If he misuses it or brings shame to it, his clan will strip him | 
of it. A dwarf stripped of his name is forbidden by dwarven 
law to use any dwarven name in its place. SOOS 
Male Names: Barendd, Brottor, Eberk, Einkil, Oskar, 
Rurik, Taklinn, Tordek, Traubon, Ulfgar, Veit. = 
Female Names: Artin, Audhild, Dagnal, Diesa, Gunnloda, 
Hlin, Ilde, Liftrasa, Sannl, Torgga. 
= Clan Names: Balderk, Dankil, 
Gorunn, Holderhek, Loderr, Lut- 


\ 

bee e gehr, Rumnaheim, Strakeln, 

A> . “A as Torunn, Ungart. 
herp í | Pees j Adventurers: A dwarf adven- 
UNET. S à d turer may be motivated by crusad- 
Lael ing zeal, a love of excitement, or 
Human Dwarf simple greed. As long as his 
Skull Skull accomplishments bring honor to 
his clan, his deeds earn him 
ra ` Z y oe respect_and status. Defeating 
( } 7 ii, giants and claiming powerful 
Ff € Pod t magic weapons are sure ways for a 
Y Æ ) fi `> dwarf to earn the respect of other 

ae ~? dwarves. 


DWARF RACIAL TRAITS 


* 4+2 Constitution, —2 Charisma: Dwarves are stout and tough but | 
tend to be gruff and reserved. e | 
e Medium: As Medium creatures, dwarves have no special! 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. = _| 
© Dwarf base land speed is 20 feet. However, dwarves can move at | 
this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or when | 
carrying a medium or heavy load (unlike other creatures, whose | 
speed is reduced in such situations). 
e Darkvision: Dwarves can see in the dark up to 60 feet. Dark- 
_ vision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal 
sight, and dwarves can function just fine with no light at all. 


+ 


+ 


+ 


Stonecunning: This ability grants a dwarf a +2 racial bonus on 
Search checks to notice unusual stonework, such as sliding 
walls, stonework traps, new construction (even when built to 
match the old), unsafe stone surfaces, shaky stone ceilings, and 
the like. Something that isn't stone but that is disguised as stone, 
also counts as unusual stonework. A dwarf who merely comes | 
within 10 feet of unusual stonework can make a Search check as} 
if he were actively searching, and a dwarf can use the Search skill, 
to find stonework traps as a rogue can. A dwarf can also intuit} 
depth, sensing his approximate depth underground as naturally | 
as a human can sense which way is up. Dwarves have a sixth | 


__sense about stonework, an innate ability that they get plenty of 


opportunity to practice and hone in their underground homes. 

e Weapon Familiarity: Dwarves may treat dwarven waraxes and 
dwarven urgroshes (see Chapter 7: Equipment) as martial 
weapons, rather than exotic weapons. 


‚° Stability: Dwarves are exceptionally stable on their feet. A dwarf 


$ 


+ 


+ 


gains a +4 bonus on ability checks made to resist being bull) 
rushed or tripped when standing on the ground (but not when} 


climbing, flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly on; 


the ground). 

e +2 racial bonus on saving throws against poison: Dwarves are 
hardy and resistant to toxins. 

e +2 racial bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like 
effects: Dwarves have an innate resistance to magic spells. 

e +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against orcs (including half-orcs) 
and goblinoids (including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears): 


|__ Dwarves are trained in the special combat techniques that allow 


+ 


them to fight their common enemies more effectively. 


[e __+4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant 


+ 


+ 


type (such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants): This bonus repre- 
sents special training that dwarves undergo, during which they 
learn tricks that previous generations developed in their battles 
with giants. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if 
any) to Armor Class, such as when it’s caught flat-footed, it loses 
its dodge bonus, too. The Monster Manual has information on 
which creatures are of the giant type. 
e +2 racial bonus on Appraise checks that are related to stone or, 


metal items: Dwarves are familiar with valuable items of all. 


kinds, especially those made of stone or metal. 


d- 


e +2 racial bonus on Craft checks that are related to stone or metal: | 


Dwarves are especially capable with stonework and metalwork. 

e Automatic Languages: Common and Dwarven. Bonus Lan- 
guages: Giant, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, and Undercom- 
mon. Dwarves are familiar with the languages of their enemies 
and of their subterranean allies. 

e Favored Class: Fighter. A multiclass dwarf’s fighter class does 
not count when determining whether he takes an experience 
point penalty for multiclassing (see XP for Multiclass 
Characters, page 60). Dwarven culture extols the virtues of 
battle, and the vocation comes easily to dwarves. 


Elves mingle freely in human lands, always welcome yet never at 
home there. They are well known for their poetry, dance, song, 
lore, and magical arts. Elves favor things of natural and simple 
beauty. When danger threatens their woodland homes, however, 
elves reveal a more martial side, demonstrating skill with sword, 


_bow, and battle strategy. 


+ 


f 


Personality: Elves are more often amused than excited, and 
more likely to be curious than greedy. With such a long life 


_\span, they tend to keep a broad perspective on events, remain- 


ling aloof and unfazed by petty happenstance. When pursuing a 
_goal, however, whether an adventurous mission or learning a 
new skill or art, they can be focused and relentless. They are | 
slow to make friends and enemies, and even slower to forget. 


them. They reply to petty insults with disdain and to serious, 


insults with vengeance. 


4 


Physical Description: Elves are short and slim, standing about | 
4-1/2 to 5-1/2 feet tall and typically weighing 95 to 135 pounds, 


with elf men the same height as and only marginally heavier than 
lelf women. They are graceful but frail. They tend to be pale- 
iskinned and dark-haired, with deep green eyes. Elves have no 


facial or body hair. They prefer simple, comfortable clothes, espe- 


cially in pastel blues and greens, and they enjoy simple yet elegant , 


jewelry. Elves possess unearthly grace and fine features. Many 
|humans and members of other races find them hauntingly beauti- | 


ful. An elf reaches adulthood at about 110 years of age and can live 
to be more than 700 years old. 
Elves do not sleep, as members of the other common races do. , 


t 


Instead, an elf meditates in a deep trance for 4 hours a day. An elf| 


resting in this fashion gains the same benefit that a human does 


from 8 hours of sleep. While meditating, an elf dreams, though 
these dreams are actually mental exercises that have become. 
\reflexive through years of practice. The Common word for an elf’s . 
_meditation is “trance,” as in “four hours of trance.” 


Relations: Elves consider humans rather unrefined, halflings a. 
bit staid, gnomes somewhat trivial, and dwarves not at all fun. They. 


look on half-elves with some degree of pity, and they regard half-orcs 
with unrelenting suspicion. While haughty, elves are not particular 
the way halflings and dwarves can be, and they are generally pleasant 


and gracious even to those who fall short of elven standards (a cate- 


gory that encompasses just about everybody who’ not an elf). 


Alignment: Since elves love freedom, variety, and self-expres- | 


sion, they lean strongly toward the gentler aspects of chaos. Gen- 


4 


erally, they value and protect others’ freedom as well as their own, , 


and they are more often good than not. 


Elven Lands: Most elves live in woodland clans numbering] | 
less than two hundred souls. Their well-hidden villages blend into | 


the trees, doing little harm to the forest. They hunt game, gather 
food, and grow vegetables, and their skill and magic allow them to 
support themselves amply without the need for clearing and 
plowing land. Their contact with outsiders is usually limited, 
though some few elves make a good living trading finely worked 
elven clothes and crafts for the metals that elves have no interest 
in mining. 

Elves encountered in human lands are commonly wandering 
minstrels, favored artists, or sages. Human nobles compete for the 
services of elf instructors, who teach swordplay to their children. 

Religion: Above all others, elves worship Corellon Larethian, 
the Protector and Preserver of life. Elven myth holds that it was 
from his blood, shed in battles with Gruumsh, the god of the orcs, 
that the elves first arose. Corellon is a patron of magical study, arts, 
dance, and poetry, as well as a powerful warrior god. 

Language: Elves speak a fluid language of subtle intonations 
and intricate grammar. While Elven literature is rich and varied, it 
is the language’s songs and poems that are most famous. Many 
bards learn Elven so they can add Elven ballads to their reper- 
toires. Others simply memorize Elven songs by sound. The Elven 
script, as flowing as the spoken word, also serves as the script for 
Sylvan, the language of dryads and pixies, for Aquan, the language 
of water-based creatures, and for Undercommon, the language of 
drow and other subterranean creatures. 


Names: When an elf declares herself an adult, usually some | 


time after her hundredth birthday, she also selects a name. Those | 


who knew her as a youngster may or may not continue to call her 


iby her “child name,” and she may or may not care. An elf’s adult) 
name is a unique creation, though it may reflect the names of | 


those she admires or the names of others in her family. In addi- | 


tion, she bears her family name. Family names are combinations | 
lof regular Elven words; some elves traveling among humans 
‘translate their family names into Common, while others use the 


Elven version. 


+ 


4 


l 


as 


3 

S 
È 
Š 
z 
5 
© 
$ 
= 
8 


+ 


+ > 


t 


Male Names: Aramil, Aust, Enialis, Heian, Himo, Ivellios, Lau- 
cian, Quarion, Soveliss, Thamior, Tharivol. =e. 

Female Names: Anastrianna, Antinua, Drusilia, Felosial, Iele- 
nia, Lia, Mialee, Qillathe, Silaqui, Vadania, Valanthe, Xanaphia. 

Family Names (Common Translations): Amastacia. 
(Starflower), Amakiir (Gemflower), Galanodel (Moonwhisper), | 


Holimion (Diamonddew), Liadon (Silverfrond), Meliamne (Oak- | 


enheel), Nailo (Nightbreeze), Siannodel (Moonbrook), Uphukiir 
(Gemblossom), Xiloscient (Goldpetal). 

Adventurers: Elves take up adventuring out of wanderlust. 
Life among humans moves at a pace that elves dislike: regimented 
from day to day but changing from decade to decade. Elves among 
humans, therefore, find careers that allow them to wander freely 
and set their own pace. Elves also enjoy demonstrating their 


‚prowess with the sword and bow or gaining greater magical 
| powers, and adventuring allows them to do so. Good elves may 
Lalso be rebels or crusaders. 


ELF RACIAL TRAITS 


e +2 Dexterity, —2 Constitution: Elves are graceful but frail. An 
elf’s grace makes her naturally better at stealth and archery. 

* Medium: As Medium creatures, elves have no special bonuses 
or penalties due to their size. 

e Elf base land speed is 30 feet. 

e Immunity to magic sleep effects, and a +2 racial saving throw 
bonus against enchantment spells or effects. 


© Low-Light Vision: An elf can see twice as far as a human in 


Ł 


_ starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and 
detail under these conditions. 

* Weapon Proficiency: Elves receive the Martial Weapon Profi- 
ciency feats for the longsword, rapier, longbow (including 
composite longbow), and shortbow (including composite. 


_ = —— 


shortbow) as bonus feats. Elves esteem the arts of swordplay 
and archery, so all elves are familiar with these weapons. —— 

e +2 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. An elf who 
merely passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door is enti- 
tled to a Search check to notice it as if she were actively looking 
for it. An elf’s senses are so keen that she practically has a sixth 
sense about hidden portals. 

e Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: 
Draconic, Gnoll, Gnome, Goblin, Orc, and Sylvan. Elves com- 
monly know the languages of their enemies and of their 
friends, as well as Draconic, the language commonly found in 
ancient tomes of secret knowledge. 

° Favored Class: Wizard. A multiclass elf's wizard class does not 
count when determining whether she takes an experience 
point penalty for multiclassing (see XP for Multiclass Char- 
acters, page 60). Wizardry comes naturally to elves—indeed, 
they sometimes claim to have invented it, and fighter/wizards 
are especially common among them. 


Gnomes are welcome everywhere as technicians, alchemists, and 
inventors. Despite the demand for their skills, most gnomes prefer 
to remain among their own kind, living in comfortable burrows | 
beneath rolling, wooded hills where animals abound. | 
Personality: Gnomes adore animals, beautiful gems, and jokes } 
of all kinds. Members of this race have a great sense of humor, | 


_and while they love puns, jokes, and games, they also relish | 


tricks—the more intricate the better. They apply the same dedi-_ 


_cation to more practical arts, such as engineering, as they do to | 
‘their pranks. 


Gnomes are inquisitive. They love to find things out by personal 


lexperience. At times they're even reckless. Their curiosity makes 


them skilled engineers, since they are always trying new ways to 


build things. Sometimes a gnome pulls a prank just to see how the 
people involved will react. 

Physical Description: Gnomes stand about 3 to 3-1 /2 feet tall 
and weigh 40 to 45 pounds. Their skin ranges from dark tan to 
woody brown, their hair is fair, and their eyes can be any shade of | 
blue. Gnome males prefer short, carefully trimmed beards. | 

_Gnomes generally wear leather or earth tones, and they decorate} 
\their clothes with intricate stitching or fine jewelry. Gnomes, 
{reach adulthood at about age 40, and they typically live about 3501 
_years, though some can live almost 500 years. | 
Relations: Gnomes get along well with dwarves, who share | 
their love of precious objects, their curiosity about mechanical 
„devices, and their hatred of goblins and giants. They enjoy the 
company of halflings, especially those who are easygoing enough 
to put up with pranks and jests. Most gnomes are a little suspi- 
cious of the taller races—humans, elves, half-elves, and half- 
_orcs—but they are rarely hostile or malicious. | 


, Alignment: Gnomes are most often good. Those who tend! | 


|toward law are sages, engineers, researchers, scholars, investiga-| 4 
l tors, or consultants. Those who tend toward chaos are minstrels, | 
tricksters, wanderers, or fanciful jewelers. Gnomes are good- | 
hearted, and even the tricksters among them are more playful 

than vicious. Evil gnomes are as rare as they are frightening. 

Gnome Lands: Gnomes make their homes in hilly, wooded 

lands. They live underground but get more fresh air than dwarves 

do, enjoying the natural, living world on the surface whenever 
(they can. Their homes are well hidden by both clever construction 
Land illusions. Those who come to visit and are welcome are ush- 

Lered into the bright, warm burrows. Those who are not welcome 

| never find the burrows in the first place._ = 

Gnomes who settle in human lands are commonly ge gemcutters, 
mechanics, sages, or tutors. Some human families retain gnome 
_tutors. During his life, a gnome tutor can teach several generations 
Lofa single human family. 

Religion: The chief gnome god is Garl Glittergold, the Watch- 

ful Protector. His clerics teach that gnomes are to cherish and sup- 

port their communities. Pranks are seen as ways to lighten spirits. 

and to keep gnomes humble, not as ways for pranksters to tri- 
umph over those they trick. 

Language: The Gnome language, which uses the Dwarven | 

script, is renowned for its technical treatises and its catalogs of | 
knowledge about the natural world. Human herbalists, naturalists, 
and engineers commonly learn Gnome in order to read the best 
books on their topics of study. _ 

Names: Gnomes love names, and most have half a dozen o or 

father gives him a name, his clan elder gives him a palie, his 
„aunts and uncles give him names, and he gains nicknames from 
just about anyone. Gnome names are typically variants on the 
[names of ancestors or distant relatives, though some are purely 
new inventions. When dealing with humans and others who are 
rather “stuffy” about names, a gnome learns to act as if he has no 
more than three names: a personal name, a clan name, and a 
nickname. When deciding which of his several names to use 
among humans, a gnome generally chooses the one that’s the 
most fun to say. Gnome clan names are combinations of 
common Gnome words, and gnomes almost always translate 
them into Common when in human lands (or into Elven when 
in elven lands, and so on). 
| Male Names: Boddynock, Dimble, Fonkin, Gimble, Glim, 
_Gerbo, Jebeddo, Namfoodle, Roondar, Seebo, Zook. 

Female Names: Bimpnottin, Caramip, Duvamil, Ellywick, 
\Ellyjobell, Loopmottin, Mardnab, Roywyn, Shamil, Waywocket. 
__Clan Names: Beren, Daergel, Folkor, Garrick, Nackle, Murnig, 
Ningel, Raulnor, Scheppen, Turen. 

Nicknames: Aleslosh, Ashhearth, Badger, Cloak, Doublelock, | 
Filchbatter, Fnipper, Oneshoe, Sparklegem, Stumbleduck. 


+ 


+ 


Adventurers: Gnomes are curious and impulsive. They may, 


take up adventuring as a way to see the world or for the love of | 
exploring. Lawful gnomes may adventure to set things right and | 
to protect the innocent, demonstrating the same sense of duty. 
toward society as a whole that gnomes generally exhibit toward 
their own enclaves. As lovers of gems and other fine items, some 
\gnomes take to adventuring as a quick, if dangerous, path to 
wealth. Depending on his relations to his home clan, an adventur- 
ing gnome may be seen as a vagabond or even as something of a, 
„traitor (for abandoning clan responsibilities). 


— t 


GN OME RACIAL TRAITS l | 


+2 Constitution, —2 Strength: Like dwarves, gnomes are tough, 
but they are small and therefore not as strong as larger, 
humanoids. 
Small: As a Small creature, a gnome gains a +1 size bonus to 
Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus 
on Hide checks, but he uses smaller weapons than humans use, ; 
and his lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of, 
a Medium character. 

Gnome base land speed is 20 feet. 

Low-Light Vision: A gnome can see twice as far as a human in | 
starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. He retains the ability to distinguish color and 
detail under these conditions. SS 

Weapon Familiarity: Gnomes may treat gnome hooked hammers. 
(see page 118) as martial weapons rather than exotic weapons. | 


+ 


+2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusions: Gnomes are f 


innately familiar with illusions of all kinds. 

Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against illu- 
sion spells cast by gnomes. Their innate familiarity with these 
effects make their illusions more difficult to see through. This | 
adjustment stacks with those from similar effects, such as the, 
Spell Focus feat. 

+1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds and goblinoids 
(including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears): Gnomes battle 
these creatures frequently and practice special techniques for 
fighting them. 

+4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against monsters of the giant 
type (such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants): This bonus repre- 
sents special training that gnomes undergo, during which they 
learn tricks that previous generations developed in their battles 
with giants. Any time a creature loses its Dexterity bonus (if 
any) to Armor Class, such as when it’s caught flat-footed, it loses 
its dodge bonus, too. The Monster Manual has information on 
which creatures are of the giant type. 

+2 racial bonus on Listen checks: Gnomes have keen ears. 

+2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks: A gnome’s sensitive 
nose allows him to monitor alchemical processes by smell. 
Automatic Languages: Common and Gnome. Bonus Languages: 
Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, and Orc. Gnomes deal 
more with elves and dwarves than elves and dwarves deal with 
one another, and they learn the languages of their enemies 
(kobolds, giants, goblins, and orcs) as well. In addition, a gnome 
can speak with a burrowing mammal (a badger, fox, rabbit, or the 
like, see below). This ability is innate to gnomes. See the speak 
with animals spell description, page 281. 

Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—speak with animals (burrowing | 
mammal only, duration 1 minute). A gnome with a Charisma | 
score of at least 10 also has the following spell-like abilities: | 
1/day—dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation. Caster level, 
1st; save DC 10 + gnome’s Cha modifier + spell level. See the | 
spell descriptions on pages 216, 235, and 264, respectively. { 
Favored Class: Bard. A multiclass gnome’s bard class does not | 
count when determining whether he takes an experience point 
penalty (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60). 


Fy 


Humans and elves sometimes wed, the elf attracted to the human's 
energy and the human to the elf’s grace. These marriages end 


quickly as elves count years because a human's life is so brief, but. 


they leave an enduring legacy—half-elf children. 


The life of a half-elf can be hard. If raised by elves, the half- elf} 


[seems to grow with astounding speed, reaching maturity within] 


[wo decades. The half-elf becomes an adult long before she has} 


had time to learn the intricacies of elven art and culture, or at 


grammar. She leaves behind her childhood friends, becoming} 
(physically an adult but culturally still a child by elven standards. 
Typically, she leaves her elven home, which is no longer familiar, 


and finds her way among humans. 
If, on the other hand, she is raised by humans, the half-elf finds 
herself different from her peers: more aloof, more sensitive, less 


ambitious, and slower to mature. Some half-elves try to fit in 


among humans, while others find their identities in their differ- t 


ences. Most find places for themselves in human lands, but some 
feel like outsiders all their lives. 

Personality: Most half-elves have the curiosity, inventiveness, | 
and ambition of the human parent, along with the refined senses, 
love of nature, and artistic tastes of the elf parent. 

Physical Description: To humans, half-elves look like elves. To 
elves, they look like humans—indeed, elves call them half- 
humans. Half-elf height ranges from under 5 feet to about 6 feet 
tall, and weight usually ranges from 100 to 180 pounds. Half-elf 
men are taller and heavier than half-elf women, but the difference 
is less pronounced than that found among humans. Half-elves are 


+ 


| paler, fairer, and smoother-skinned than their human parents, but 
their actual skin tone, hair color, and other details vary just as 
‘human features do. Half-elves’ eyes are green, just as are those of 
their elf parents. A half-elf reaches adulthood at age 20 and can 
\live to be more than 180 years old. 


Most half-elves are the children of human-elf pairings. Some, 
however, are the children of parents who themselves are re 
elves have humanlike c eyes, but most still have green = tee } 

Relations: Half-elves do well among both elves and humans, | 


and they also get along well with dwarves, gnomes, and halflings. | 


They have elven grace without elven aloofness and human energy. 


4+—+-—+ 


without human boorishness. They make excellent ambassadors 
and go-betweens (except between elves and humans, since each 
side suspects the half-elf of favoring the other). In human lands 
where elves are distant or not on friendly terms with other races, 
however, half-elves are viewed with suspicion. 

Some half-elves show a marked disfavor toward half-orcs. Per- 
haps the similarity between themselves and half-orcs (a partly 
human lineage) makes these half-elves uncomfortable. 

__ Alignment: Half-elves share the chaotic bent of their elven 
heritage, but, like humans, they tend toward both good and evil in 
equal proportion. Like elves, they value personal freedom and cre- 
ative expression, demonstrating neither love of leaders nor desire 
for followers. They chafe at rules, resent others’ demands, and 
sometimes prove unreliable, or at least unpredictable. 
Half-Elven Lands: Half-elves have no lands of their own, 
though they are welcome in human cities and elven forests. In large 
cities, half-elves sometimes form small communities of their own. 
Religion: Half-elves raised among elves follow elven deities, 
_principally Corellon Larethian (god of the elves). Those raised 
__ Language: Half- elves speak the languages they are born as 
[common and Elven. Half-elves are slightly clumsy with the intri- 
cate Elven language, though only elves notice, and even so half- 
_elves do better than nonelves. 


Names: Half-elves use either human or elven naming conven- | 
tions. Ironically, a half-elf raised among humans is often given | 
f 


an elven name in honor of her heritage, just as a half-elf raised. 
among elves often takes a human name. | 

Adventurers: Half-elves find themselves drawn to strange | 
careers and unusual company. Taking up the life of an adventurer | 


comes easily to many of them. Like elves, they are driven by wan- 
_derlust. 


HALF-ELF RACIAL TRAITS 


e Medium: As Medium creatures, half-elves have no special. 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 


— — 4 


[e Half-elf base land speed is 30 feet. 


e Immunity to sleep spells and similar magical effects, and a 42 
racial bonus on saving throws against enchantment spells or 
effects. : — | 

e Low-Light Vision: A half-elf can see twice as far as a human in| 

starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor 
illumination. She retains the ability to distinguish color and 

_ detail under these conditions. | 

e +1 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks: A half-elf , 
does not have the elf’s ability to notice secret doors simply by 
passing near them. Half-elves have keen senses, but not as keen 
as those of an elf. 1 

e _+2 racial bonus on Diplomacy and Gather Information checks: | 
Half-elves get along naturally with all teon 

* Elven Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-elf is consid- 
ered an elf. Half-elves, for example, are just as vulnerable to 
special effects that affect elves as their elf ancestors are, and | 
they can use magic items that are only usable by elves. (See the | 
Monster Manual for more information about elves, and the | 
Dungeon Master's Guide for more on magic items.) — < — — 

e Automatic Languages: Common and Elven. Bonus Languages: 
Any (other than secret languages, such as Druidic). Half-elves | 
have all the versatility and broad (if shallow) experience that 
humans have. 

* Favored Class: Any. When determining whether a multiclass 
half-elf takes an experience point penalty, her highest-level 
class does not count (see XP for Multiclass Characters, page 60). 


In the wild frontiers, tribes of human and orc barbarians live in 
uneasy balance, fighting in times of war and trading in times of 
peace. Half-orcs who are born in the frontier may live with either 
human or orc parents, but they are nevertheless exposed to both 
cultures. Some, for whatever reason, leave their homeland and 
travel to civilized lands, bringing with them the tenacity, courage, 
and combat prowess that they developed in the wilds. 

Personality: Half-orcs tend to be short-tempered and sullen. 
They would rather act than ponder and would rather fight than 
argue. Those who are successful, however, are the ones with 
enough self-control to live in a civilized land, not the crazy ones. 

Half-orcs love simple pleasures such as feasting, drinking, 
boasting, singing, wrestling, drumming, and wild dancing. 
Refined enjoyments such as poetry, courtly dancing, and philoso- 
phy are lost on them. At the right sort of party, a half-orc is an 
asset. At the duchess’s grand ball, he’s a liability. 

Physical Description: Half-orcs stand between 6 and 7 feet | 
tall and usually weigh between 180 and 250 pounds. A half-orc’s | 
grayish pigmentation, sloping forehead, jutting jaw, prominent | 
teeth, and coarse body hair make his lineage plain for all to ee] 

Orcs like scars. They regard battle scars as tokens of pride an: 


ornamental scars as things of beauty. Any half-orc who has i i) 


among or near orcs has scars, whether they are marks of shame | 
‘indicating servitude and identifying the half-orc’s former owner, 
{or marks of pride recounting conquests and high status. Such a 
jhalf-orc living among humans may either display or hide his scars, 


depending on his attitude toward them. 


Half-orcs mature a little faster than humans and age noticeably H 
faster. They reach adulthood at age 14, and few live longer than 
75 years. 
Relations: Because orcs are the sworn enemies of dwarves and 
elves, half-orcs can have a rough time with members of these races. 
For that matter, orcs aren't exactly on good terms with humans, _. 
_halflings, or gnomes, either. Each half-orc finds a way to gain) 4 
\acceptance from those who hate or fear his orc cousins. Some half- | 
Lorcs are reserved, trying not to draw attention to themselves. A few. 
demonstrate piety and good-heartedness as publicly as they can) 
(whether or not such demonstrations are genuine). Others simply. | 
try to be so tough that others have no choice but to accept them. 

Alignment: Half-orcs inherit a tendency toward chaos from 
their orc parents, but, like their human parents, they favor good 
and evil in equal proportions. Half-orcs raised among orcs and 
willing to live out their lives with them are usu- 

„ally the evil ones. 

Half-Orc Lands: Half-orcs have 
no lands of their own, but they 
{most often live among orcs. Of 

the other races, humans are |, 
the ones most likely to accept ~ 
half-orcs, and half-orcs almost —~ 
always live in human lands / 
when not living among orc 
tribes. 
__ Religion: Like orcs, many half- 
Lorcs worship Gruumsh, the chief 
‘orc god and the archenemy of Corel- 
‘lon Larethian, god of the elves. While 
_Gruumsh is evil, half-orc barbarians and 
fighters may worship him as a war god evenif — _- 
_they are not evil themselves. Worshipers of z4 a 
\Gruumsh who are tired of explaining + f: EA 


themselves, or who don't want to give ~ 1V- 
| s 
« Jf 


fa 


humans a reason to distrust them, 
simply don’t make their religion 
public knowledge. Half-orcs who 
want to solidify their connection 
to their human heritage, on the 
other hand, follow human gods, and 
they may be outspoken in their shows 
of piety. 

Language: Orc, which has no alpha- 
bet of its own, uses Dwarven script on 
the rare_occasions when someone 
writes something down. Orc writing 

_turns up most frequently in graffiti. 

| Names: A half-orc typically chooses a 

_name that helps him make the impression 

that he wants to make. If he wants to fit in 
among humans, he chooses a human name. If 
he wants to intimidate others, he chooses a 
guttural orc name. A half-orc who has been 
raised entirely by humans has a human 
given name, but he may choose another name once he’s away from 
his hometown. Some half-orcs, of course, aren't quite bright enough 
to choose a name this carefully. 7 

Orc Male Names: Dench, Feng, Gell, Henk, Holg, Imsh, Keth, 

_Krusk, Ront, Shump, Thokk. 

| Orc Female Names: Baggi, Emen, Engong, Myey, Neega, 

Ovak, Ownka, Shautha, Vola, Volen. 

T Adventurers: Half-orcs living among humans are drawn 
{almost invariably toward violent careers in which they can put 
their strength to good use. Frequently shunned from polite com- 
pany, half-orcs often find acceptance and friendship among! 
adventurers, many of whom are fellow wanderers and outsiders. | 


ALF-ORC RACIAL TRAITS | 
e +2 Strength, —2 Intelligence, —2 Charisma: Half-orcs are strong, 4 
but their orc lineage makes them dull and crude. | 

e Medium: As Medium creatures, half-orcs have no special 
bonuses or penalties due to their size. 

e Half-orc base land speed is 30 feet. 

e Darkvision: Half-orcs (and orcs) can see in the dark up to 60 feet. 
Darkvision is black and white only, but it is otherwise like normal 
sight, and half-orcs can function just fine with no light at all. | 

* Orc Blood: For all effects related to race, a half-orc is considered | 
an orc. Half-orcs, for example, are just as vulnerable to special 
effects that affect orcs as their orc ancestors are, and they can_ 
use magic items that are only usable by orcs. (See the Monster 
Manual for more information about orcs, and the Dungeon. 
Master’s Guide for more on magic items.) = | 

e Automatic Languages: Common and Orc. Bonus Languages: 

=e Draconic, Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, and 

i Abyssal. Smart half-orcs (who are, 

rare) may know the languages of, 

x their allies or rivals. 

e Favored Class: Barbarian. , 

A multiclass half-orc’s | 
barbarian class does not 
count when determining 
whether he takes an experi- 
ence point penalty (see XP_ 
for Multiclass Characters, | 
page 60). Ferocity runs in at 
half-orc’s veins. , 


— -o 


| 


Halflings are clever, capable opportunists. Halfling | 
individuals and clans find room for themselves 
wherever they can. Often they are strangers and 
wanderers, and others react to them with suspi- 
cion or curiosity. Depending on the clan, half- 
lings might be reliable, hard-working (if clan- 
nish) citizens, or they might be thieves just 
waiting for the opportunity to make a big score 
and disappear in the dead of night. Regardless, 
halflings are cunning, resourceful survivors. 
Personality: Halflings prefer trouble to 
a Relying on their ability to survive 
’= or escape danger, they demon- 
© strate a daring that many 
larger people cant match. 
Halfling clans are nomadic, wandering 
wherever circumstance and curiosity take 
them. Halflings enjoy wealth and the pleasures it can | 
bring, and they tend to spend gold as quickly as they acquire it. 
Halflings are also famous collectors. While more orthodox half- 
lings may collect weapons, books, or jewelry, some collect such 
objects as the hides of wild beasts—or even the beasts themselves. 
Wealthy halflings sometimes commission adventurers to retrieve 
exotic items to complete their collections. 
Physical Description: Halflings stand about 3 feet tall and usu-, 
ally weigh | between 30 and 35 pounds. Their skin is ruddy, and d their | | 


imen often have long deburas, but beards are rare among the then m 


and mustaches are almost unseen. They like to wear simple, com- 
fortable, and practical clothes. A halfling reaches adulthood at the | 


‘age of 20 and generally lives into the middle of her second century. | 


Relations: Halflings try to get along with everyone else. They 


lare adept at fitting into a community of humans, dwarves, elves, or 


gnomes and making themselves valuable and welcome. Since 


N 
~ 
=> 
5 

S 
l 
hb 
© 
J 
N 
N 


19 


human society changes faster than the societies of the longer- 
lived races, it is human society that most frequently offers half- 
lings opportunities to exploit, so halflings are most often found in 
or around human lands._ 
Alignment: cane tend to be neutral, While they are com- | 
fortable with change (a chaotic trait), they also tend to rely on intan- 
_gible constants, such as clan ties and personal honor (a lawful trait). 4 
|__Halfling Lands: Halflings have no lands of their own. Instead, | 
[they live in the lands of other races, where they can benefit from 
whatever resources those areas have to offer. Halflings often form | 
tight: knit communities in human or dwarven cities. While they] 
[work readily with others, they often make friends only among 
| their own kind. Halflings also settle into secluded places where 
they set up self-reliant villages. Halfling communities, however, are 
known for picking up and moving en masse to some place that 
offers a new opportunity, such as a new mine that has just opened, 
¿or to a land where a devastating war has made skilled workers hard 
to find. If these opportunities are temporary, the community may 
pick up and move again once the opportunity is gone, or once T 
better one presents itself. Some halfling communities, on the other | 
fiand, take to traveling as a way of life, driving wagons or guiding | 
boats from place to place and maintaining no permanent home. 
Religion: The chief halfling deity is Yondalla, the 
Blessed One, protector of the halflings. Yon- 
dalla promises blessings and protection to 
those who heed her guidance, defend 
their clans, and cherish their families. 
[Halflings also recognize countless 
lesser gods, who rule over individual 
villages, forests, rivers, lakes, and so on. 
|The halflings pay homage to these 
deities to ensure safe journeys as they 
travel from place to place. 
| Language: Halflings speak their 
‘own language, which uses the 
Common script. They write very 
little in their own language, so, unlike 
dwarves, elves, and gnomes, they don't 
have a rich body of written work. The 
halfling oral tradition, however, is very 
strong. While the Halfling language isn’t secret, 
halflings are loath to share it with others. Almost all 
halflings speak Pare since they use it to deal _. 
with the people in whose lands they are living or ©” Pi 
through which they are traveling. 
Names: A halfling has a given name, a family name, and 
possibly a nickname. It would seem that 
„family names are nothing more than 
{nicknames that stuck so well they / 


i thave been passed down through the yj; Ze | 


3 

S 
È 
Š 
z 
5 
» 
$ 
= 
8 


t 


7 oe 


| generations. 

Male Names: Alton, Beau, Cade, 
Eldon, Garret, Lyle, Milo, Osborn, 
Roscoe, Wellby. B 

Female Names: Amaryllis, 


HALFLING RACIAL TRAITS 


Charmaine, Cora, Et Euphemia, Jillian, Lavinia, Lidda, Merla, Portia, 
Seraphina, Verna. 
Family Names: Brushgather, Goodbarrel, Greenbottle, High- | 
hill, Hilltopple, Leagallow, Tealeaf, Thorngage, Tosscobble, Under-, 
bough. 
| Adventurers: Halflings often set out on their own to make their 
way in the world. Halfling adventurers are typically looking for a 
way to use their skills to gain wealth or status. The distinction 
between a halfling adventurer and a halfling out on her own look- | 
‚ing for “a big score” can get blurry. For a halfling, adventuring is less | 
lof a career than an opportunity. While halfling opportunism can | 
sometimes look like larceny or fraud to others, a halfling adventurer 
who learns to trust her fellows is worthy of trust in return. 


e +2 Dexterity, —2 Strength: Halflings are quick, agile, and sood| 
| with ranged weapons, but they are small and therefore not as 
| strong as other humanoids. 
Je Small: As a Small creature, a halfling gains a +1 size bonus to, | 
| Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus 
on Hide checks, but she uses smaller weapons than humans ; 
use, and her lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of. 
those of a Medium character. B 
e Halfling base land speed is 20 feet. 
i 
* +2 racial bonus on Climb, Jump, pand. Move abuh 
checks: Halflings are agile, surefooted, an 
athletic. ae 7 | 
e +1 racial bonus on all saving throws: | 
Halflings are surprisingly capable of avoiding | 
mishaps. ee 
* +2 morale bonus on saving throws against, 
fear: This bonus stacks with the halfling’s +1 | 
bonus on saving throws in general. J 
e +1 racial bonus on attack rolls with thrown 
weapons and slings: Throwing and slinging 
stones is a universal sport among halflings, 
and they develop especially good aim. 
e +2 racial bonus on Listen checks: 
N Halflings have keen ears. 
A) -Automatic Languages: Common 
and Halfling. Bonus Languages: 
Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Goblin, 
_and Orc. Smart halflings learn 
_the languages of their friends 
and enemies. 
e Favored Class: Rogue. A multiclass half- 
ling’s rogue class does not count when 
~~ determining whether she takes an 
\, experience point penalty for multi- 
SH} classing (see XP for Multiclass 
\ Characters, page 60). Halflings 
have long had to rely on stealth, 
wit, and skill, and the vocation of 


rr F comes naturally to them. 


RN 


SMALL CHARACTERS 

A Small character gets a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus 
on attack rolls, and a +4 size bonus on Hide checks. The bonus on 
attacks results from the fact that it’s really relative size that matters in 
determining attack chances. It’s no harder for a halfling to hit another 
halfling than it is for a human to hit another human, because the 
attacking halfling’s bonus on attack rolls counteracts the defending 
halfling’s bonus to Armor Class. Likewise, a halfling has an easy time 


hitting a human, just as a human has an easy time hitting an ogre, and 
an ogre has an easy time hitting a giant. 

A Small character's carrying capacity is three-quarters of that of a 
Medium character (see Bigger and Smaller Creatures, page 162). 

A Small character generally moves about two-thirds as fast as a 
Medium character. 

A Small character must use smaller weapons than a Medium char- 
acter (see Weapon Size, page 113). 


205 


raw Spelt” 
is o A 


< 
hy yi r saig ~ : 
seh at 


| — 


dventurers seek gold, glory, justice, fame, power, knowl- 
edge, or maybe some other goal—perhaps noble or per- 
haps base. Each chooses a different way to attain those 
goals, from brutal combat power, to mighty magic, to 
subtle skills. Some adventurers prevail and grow in expe- 
rience, wealth, and power. Others die. 

Your character's class is his or her profession or vocation. It 
determines what he or she is able to do: combat prowess, magical 
ability, skills, and more. Class is probably the first choice you 
make about your character—just ahead of race, or perhaps in con- 
junction with that decision. The class you choose determines 
where you should best place your character's ability scores and 
suggests which races are best to support that class choice. 


The eleven classés,in the order they're presented in this chapter, 
are as follows: d 

Barbarian: A ferocious watrior who uses fury and instinct to 
bring down foes. 

Bard: A performer whose music works magic—a wanderer, a 
tale-teller, and a jack-of-all trades. 

Cleric; A master of divine magic and a capable warrior as well. 

Druid: One who draws energy from the natural world tò cast 
divine spells and gain strange magical powers. 

Fighter: A warrior with exceptional combat capability and 
unequaled skill with weapons. 

Monk: A martial artist whose unarmed strikes hit fast and 
hard—a master of exotic powers. 

Paladin: A champion of justice and destroyer of evil, protected 
and strengthened by an array of divine powers. 


AT oe, 


a es ae 
ie Nha 


"Bastard Sword 


THE MULTICLASS CHARACTER 


AAR 


pyemy p hq snr 


Ranger: A cunning, skilled warrior of the wilderness. 

Rogue: A tricky, skillful scout and spy who wins the 
battle by stealth rather than brute force. 

Sorcerer; A’spellcaster with inborn. magical ability. 

Wizard: A potent spellcaster schooled in the arcane arts. 

Class Name Abbreviations: Class names are abbrevi- 
ated as follows: barbarian Bbn; bard Brd; cleric Clr; druid 
Drd; fighter Ftr; monk Mnk; paladin Pal; ranger Rgr; 
rogue Rog; sorcerer Sor; wizard Wiz. 


As your character advances in level, he or she may add 
new classés. Adding a new class gives the character a 
broader rangé of abilities; but all advancement in the new 
class is at the expense of advancement in the character's 
other class or'classes. A wizard, for example, might 
become a combination wizard/fighter. Adding the 
fighter class would give her proficiency in more 
weapons, better Fortitude Saving throws, and so on, but 
it would also mean that she doesn't gain new wizard 
abilities when she adds this second class and thus is 
not as powerful a wizard as she otherwise would have 
become if she had chosen to continue advancing as a 
wizard. Rules for creating and advancing multiclass 
characters can be found at the end of this chapter. 


An attack roll, saving throw, or skill check is a combi- 
nation of three numbers, each representing a differ- 
ent factor: a random factor (the number you roll on 


a d20), a number representing the character’s innate abilities (the 
ability modifier), and a bonus representing the character's experi- 
ence and training. This third factor depends, either directly or 


indirectly, on the character's class and level. Table 3—1: Base Save 


and Base Attack Bonuses (see below) summarizes the figures for | 
this third factor when it applies to base save bonuses and base | 
_attack bonuses. } 


Base Save Bonus: The two numbers given in this column on, 


|Table 3-1 apply to saving throws. Whether a character uses the first } 


(good) bonus or the second (poor) bonus depends on his or her class | 
(and the type of saving throw being attempted. For example, fighters | 
| get the lower bonus on Reflex and Will saves and the higher bonus 
_on Fortitude saves, while rogues get the lower bonus on Fortitude 
and Will saves and the higher bonus on Reflex saves. Monks are 
equally good at all three types of saving throws. See each class's 
description to find out which bonus applies to which category of 
„saves. If a character has more than one class (see Multiclass Charac- 


ters, page 59), the base save bonuses for each class are cumulative. | 
Base Attack Bonus: On an attack roll, apply the bonus from 
\the appropriate column on Table 3-1 according to the class to} 


which the character belongs. Whether a character uses the first | 
(good) base attack bonus, the second (average) base attack bonus, 
or the third (poor) base attack bonus depends on his or her class. 
Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and rangers have a good base attack 
bonus, so they use the first Base Attack Bonus column. Clerics, 
druids, monks, and rogues have an average base attack bonus, so 
ithey use the second column. Sorcerers and wizards have a poor 
[base attack bonus, so they use the third column. Numbers after a 
\slash indicate additional attacks at reduced bonuses: “+12/+7/+2” 
| means three attacks per round, with an attack bonus of +12 for the 
first attack, +7 for the second, and +2 for the third. Any modifiers 
Lon attack rolls apply to all these attacks normally, but bonuses do 
not grant extra attacks. For example, when Lidda the halfling 
l rogue is 2nd level, she has a base attack bonus of +1. With a thrown 
weapon, she adds her Dexterity bonus (+3), her size bonus (+1), 
and a racial bonus (+1) for a total of +6. Even though a +6 base 
attack bonus would grant an additional attack at +1, raising that. 
number to +6 via ability, racial, size, weapon, or other bonuses, 


doesn't grant Lidda an additional attack. If a character has more | 
than one class (see Multiclass Characters, page 59), the base attack | 


bonuses for each class are cumulative. | 


TABLE 3—1: BASE SAVE AND BASE ATTACK BONUSES 
Base Base Base ——— —— Base Base 
Save _ Save Attack Attack Attack 

Class Bonus Bonus Bonus Bonus Bonus 

Level (Good) (Poor) (Good) (Average) (Poor) 


\ ist +2 +0 + +0 +0 
| 2nd +3 +0 +2 +] +1 
| 3rd +3 +1 +3 +2 +1 
| 4th +4 +1 +4 +3 +2 
5th +4 +1 45 +3 +2 
6th +5 +2  +6/+] +4 +3 
7th +5 +2 +7/+2 +5 +3 
8th +6 +2. +8/+3 +6/+1 +4 
9th +6 +3  +9/+4 +6/+1 +4 
10th +7 +3 +10/+5 +7/+2 +5 
11th aed! +3 +11/+6/+1 +8/+3 +5 
12th +8 +4 +12/+7/+2 +9/+4 +6/+1 
13th +8 +4 +13/+8/+3 +9/+4 +6/+1 
14th +9 +4 +14/+9/+4 +10/+5 +7/+2 
15th +9 +5 +15/+10/+5 +11/+6/+1 +2 
16th +10 +) +16/+11/+6/+1 +12/+7/+2 +8/+3 
17th lO) SA ol) ed a EE 2) 
18th +11 +6 +18/+13/+8/+3  +13/+8/+3 +9/+4 
19th aL +6 +19/+14/+9/+4  +14/+9/+4 +9/+4 i 
20th +12 +6  +20/+15/+10/+5  +15/+10/+5 = +10/+5 


~ 
+ 


In addition to attack bonuses and saving throw bonuses, all char- | 
acters gain other benefits from advancing in level. Table 3-2: 


Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits summarizes these addi- 
| tional benefits. 


XP: This column on Table 3-2 shows the experience point total 
needed to attain a given character level—that is, the total of all the 
character's levels in classes. (A character's level in a class is called his. 


„or her class level.) For any character (including a multiclass one), XP | 
| determines overall character level, not individual class levels. 


Class Skill Max Ranks: The maximum number of ranks a 
character can have in a class skill is equal to his or her character 
level + 3. A class skill is a skill frequently associated with a particu- , 
lar class—for example, Spellcraft is a class skill for wizards. Class | 
skills are given in each class description in this chapter (see also 


|Table 4-2: Skills, page 63, for more information on skills), — 


Cross-Class Skill Max Ranks: For cross-class skills (skills not. 


¿associated with a character's class), the maximum number of ranks , 
¿a character can have is one-half the maximum for a class skill. For 


example, at 1st level a wizard could have 2 ranks in Move Silently 
(typically associated with rogues, and on that class's list of class. 
skills), but no more. These 2 ranks in a cross-class skill would cost 
the wizard 4 skill points, whereas the same 4 points would buy 4 
ranks in a wizard class skill, such as Spellcraft. The half ranks (1/2) 
indicated on Table 3—2 don’t improve skill checks. They simply 
represent partial purchase of the next skill rank and indicate that | 


ithe character is training to improve that skill. | 


Feats: Every character gains one feat at 1st level and another at | 
every level divisible by three (3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th | 
level). These feats are in addition to any bonus feats granted as} 
class features (see the class descriptions later in this chapter) and | 
the bonus feat granted to all humans. See Chapter 5: Feats for | 
more information about feats. 

Ability Score Increases: Upon attaining any level divisible by 
four (4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20th level), a character increases one 
of his or her ability scores by 1 point. The player chooses which 
ability score to improve. For example, a sorcerer with a starting 
Charisma of 16 might increase this to 17 at 4th level. At 8th level, 
the same character might increase his Charisma score again (from 
17 to 18) or could choose to improve some other ability instead. 
The ability improvement is permanent._ 


TABLE 3—2: EXPERIENCE AND LEVEL-DEPENDENT BENEFITS 


Class Cross-Class 


Character Skill Max Skill Max Ability Score 
Level XP Ranks Ranks Feats Increases 

Ist 0 4 2 Ist — 

2nd 1,000 «5 2-1/2 — — 

3rd 3,000 6 3 2nd — 

4th 6,000 vA 3-1/2 — Ist 

5th 10,000 8 4 — — 

6th 15,000 9 4-1/2 3rd = 

7th 21,000 10 5 = = 

8th 28,000 11 5-1/2 =Z 2nd 

9th 36,000 12 6 4th — 
10th 45,000 13 6-1/2 — = 
11th 55,000 14 7 = = | 
12th 66,000 15 7-1/2 5th 3rd i 
13th 78,000 16 8 — — | 
14th 91,000 17 8-1/2 = e 
15th 105,000 18 9 6th — | 
16th 120,000 19 9-1/2 pu 4th | 
17th 136,000 20 10 — — 
{18th 153,000 21 10-1/2 7th — 
119th 171,000 22 11 = = 
20th 190,000 23 11-1/2 = 5th 


For multiclass characters, feats and ability score increases are 
gained according to character level, not class level. Thus, a 3rd- 
level wizard/1st-level fighter is a 4th-level character overall and 
eligible for her first ability score boost. 


+ 


4- 


+ 
|The rest of this chapter, up to the section on multiclass characters, 4 
| describes the character classes in alphabetical order. Each descrip- | 


‚tion begins with a general discussion in “game world” terms, the | 

sort of description that characters in the game world could under- | 

_stand and the way such a character might describe himself or her- 

„self. This information is followed by brief advice on such a charac- 
ter’s typical role in a group of adventurers. These descriptions are 
general; individual members of a class may differ in their atti- 
tudes, outlooks, and other aspects. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


Following the general class description comes game rule informa-|. 


ition. Not all of the following categories apply to every class. | 
Abilities: The Abilities entry tells you which abilities are most | 

important for a character of that class. Players are welcome to “play 
against type,” but a typical character of that class will have his or 
her highest ability scores where they’ll do the most good (or, in 
game world terms, be attracted to the class that most suits his or 
her talents or for which he or she is best qualified). 

___ Alignment: A few classes restrict a character's possible align- 

ments. For example, a bard must have a nonlawful alignment. An 
Lentry of “Any” means that characters of this class are not restricted 
lin alignment. _ 

L Hit Die: The type of Hit Die used by characters of the class 

determines the number of hit points gained per level. 


= —_— 


LHD Type Class 

| d4 Sorcerer, wizard = 
d6 = Bard, rogue 
d8 Cleric, druid, monk, ranger 

d10 Fighter, paladin 

d12 Barbarian 


A character rolls one Hit 
Die each time he or she 
gains a new level, then 
applies any Constitution 
modifier to the roll and adds 
the result to his or her hit 
point total. Thus, a charac- 
_ter has the same number of 
| Hit Dice as levels. For his 
Lor her first Hit Die, a 1st- 
level character gets the 
maximum hit points 
rather than rolling (al- 
though Constitution modi- 
fiers, positive or negative, still 
apply). 

For example, Vadania gets a_ £ 
ds Hit Die because she’s a_ | ars Grant-West 
druid. At 1st level, she gets 8 

„hit points instead of rolling. Since she has a Consti- ; 
tution score of 13, she applies a +1 bonus, raising her hit 
points to 9. When she reaches 2nd level (and every level 

J thereafter), Vadania's player rolls a d8, adds 1 (for her Constitution 
bonus), and then adds the total to Vadania’s hit points. 

If your character has a Constitution penalty and gets a result of 
0 or lower after the penalty is applied to the Hit Die roll, ignore | 
the roll and add 1 to your character's hit point total anyway. It is | 


not possible to lose hit points (or not receive any) when gaining a. 

level, even for a character with a rotten Constitution score. SE | 

Class Table: This table details how a character improves as he | 

or she gains levels in the class. Some of this material is repeated, 
from Table 3—1: Base Save and Base Attack Bonuses, but with more 


_jdetail on how the numbers apply to that class. Class tables typi- 


ically include the following information. 
Level: The character's level in that class. 
Base Attack Bonus: The character's base attack bonus and number, 
‚of attacks. 
Fort Save: The base save bonus on Fortitude saving throws. The] } 
character’s Constitution modifier also applies. __ 
Ref Save: The base save bonus on Reflex saving throws, The char- 
acter’s Dexterity modifier also applies. | 
Will Save: The base save bonus on Will saving throws. The char- | 
acter’s Wisdom modifier also applies. 
| Special: Level-dependent class abilities, each explained in the 
| Class Features section that follows. 
\__ Spells per Day: How many spells of each spell level the character] 
can cast each day. If the entry is “—” for a given level of spell, the 
character may not cast any spells of that level. If the entry is “0,” 
the character may cast spells of that level only if he or she is enti- , 
tled to bonus spells because of a high ability score tied to spell- 
casting. (Bonus spells for wizards are based on Intelligence; bonus 
spells for clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers are based on 
Wisdom; and bonus spells for sorcerers and bards are based on. 
Charisma. See Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page | 
|8.) If the entry is a number other than 0, the character may cast | 
that many spells plus any bonus spells each day. | 
A character can always choose to prepare a lower-level spell to | 
fill a higher-level spell slot (see Spell Slots, page 178). 
Class Skills: This section of a class description gives the class slist| 
of class skills, the number of skill points the character starts with at | 
ist level, and the number of skill points gained each level there- 
after. A character gets some number of skill points at each 
XA, level depending on the class in question, such as 6 for a 
À ranger or 8 for a rogue. To this number, apply the charac- 
ters Intelligence modifier (and 1 bonus point, if the char- 
acter is human) to determine the total skill points gained 
each level (but always at least 1 skill point per level, even 
J for a character with an Intelligence penalty). A 1st-level 
_ character starts with four times this number of skill points. 
Since the maximum ranks in a class skill for a character is 
character level + 3, at 1st level you can buy as many as 4 
ranks in any class skill, at a cost of 1 skill point per rank. 
For example, Vadania is a half-elf druid, so she gets 4 
skill points per level. She has a +1 Intel- 
ligence modifier, so that goes up 
to 5 skill points per level. At 
1st level, she gets four 
ey times that amount, | 
Y or 20 skill points. 
Her maximum 
rank for a class skill 
at 1st level is 4, so 
she could, for example, 
divvy up her 20 points | 
. among five class | 
. skills with 4) 
ranks each. (It’s 
© more useful 
Seen aa Aa —to have af 
higher score in a few skills than a lower score in many.) { 
You can also buy skills from other classes’ skill lists, but each | 
skill point buys only 1/2 rank in these cross-class skills, and you 
{can buy only half the maximum ranks a class skill would have 
(thus, the maximum rank for a cross-class skill at 1st level is 2). 


23 


Class Features: Special characteristics of the class. When appli- 
cable, this section also mentions restrictions and disadvantages of 
the class. Class features include some or all of the following. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: This section details which 
weapons and armor types the character is proficient with. Regard-_ 
less of training, cumbersome armor interferes with certain skills | 

(such as Climb) and with the casting of most arcane spells. Char- 
acters can become proficient with other weapon or armor types by | 
[acquiring the appropriate Armor Proficiency (light, medium, } 
heavy), Shield Proficiency, and Weapon Proficiency (exotic, mar- | 
tial, or simple) feats. (See Chapter 5: Feats.) 
| Spells: Wizards, sorcerers, clerics, druids, and bards use spells. 
Fighters, barbarians, rogues, and monks do not. Paladins and 
rangers gain the ability to use spells at 4th level. 

Other Features: Each class has certain unique capabilities. Some, 
such as the rogue, have few; others, such as the monk, have many. 

Some abilities are supernatural or spell-like. Using a spell-like 
ability is essentially like casting a spell (but without components; | 
[see Components, page 174), and it provokes attacks of opportu- T 
inity. Using a supernatural ability is not like casting a spell. (See, 
Chapter 8: Combat, especially Attacks of Opportunity, page 137, , 
and Use Special Ability, page 142.) 

Ex-Members: If, for some reason, a character is forced to give 
up this class, these are the rules for what happens. Unless other- 
wise noted in a class description, an ex-member of a class retains 
any weapon and armor proficiencies he or she has gained. 

| Starting Package: This section provides suggested feats, skills, 
equipment, and other details for a 1st-level character of this class. 
You can ignore this information and create a character from 
(scratch, or use the package as is for your first character (simply 
[copy the details onto your character sheet), or take some portions 
lof the package (such as equipment) and choose other details (such 
as skills) yourself. Dungeon Masters can also use these packages to 
| quickly create 1st-level nonplayer characters. 

__ The starting packages assume that you spend 4 skill points on 
every skill you start with (so as to excel in a few prensa rather than 


r 


in order of probable importance to the character. 
Each starting package is associated with a race. The packages do| | 
not take into account racial traits, so be sure to note your charac- | 
ter’s racial traits (described in Chapter 2: Races), including ability! 
modifiers and bonuses on skill checks. The package also does not 
list all class features, so note your character's class features as well. 
Gear for a character means adventuring gear, not clothes. 
Assume that your character owns at least one outfit of normal 
clothes. Pick any one of the following clothing outfits (see Cloth- 
ing in Chapter 7: Equipment) for free: artisan’s outfit, entertainer’s 
„outfit, explorer’s outfit, monk’s outfit, peasant’s outfit, scholar’s 
outfit, or traveler’s outfit. 


From the frozen wastes of the north and the hellish jungles of the 
south come brave, even reckless, warriors. Civilized people call 
them barbarians or berserkers and suspect them of mayhem, impi- 
ety, and atrocities. These “barbarians,” however, have proven their 
mettle and their value to those who would be their allies. To ene- 
mies who underestimated them, they have proved their cunning, 
resourcefulness, persistence, and mercilessness. 
Adventures: Adventuring is the best chance barbarians have of 
finding a place in a civilized society. They're not well suited to the 
monotony of guard duty or other mundane tasks. Barbarians also 
Shave no trouble with the dangers, the uncertainties, and the wan- 
| dering that adventuring involves. They may adventure to defeat 
hated enemies. They also have a noted distaste for that which they 
consider unnatural, including undead, demons, and devils. À 
Characteristics: The barbarian is an excellent warrior. Where | 


the fighter’s skill in combat comes from training and discipline, , 
however, the barbarian has a powerful rage. While in this berserk | 
fury, he becomes stronger and tougher, better able to defeat his | 
foes and withstand their attacks. These rages leave him winded, | 
Land he has the energy for only a few such spectacular displays per 


_ day, but those few rages are usually sufficient. He is at home in the 


wild, and he runs at great speed. 
Alignment: Barbarians are never lawful. They may be honorable, 
but at heart they are wild. This wildness is their strength, and it could | 
‚not live in a lawful soul. At best, barbarians of chaotic alignment are | 
| free and expressive. At worst, they are thoughtlessly destructive. | 
Religion: Some barbarians distrust established religions and 
prefer an intuitive, natural relationship to the cosmos over formal 
worship. Others devote themselves to powerful deities, such as; 
Kord (god of strength), Obad-Hai (god of nature), or Erythnul (god | 
of slaughter). A barbarian is capable of fierce devotion to his god. 
| Background: Barbarians come from uncivilized lands or from bar- 
[baric tribes on the outskirts of civilization. A barbarian adventurer , 
¿may have been lured to the settled lands by the promise of riches, may, 


‘have escaped after being captured in his homeland and sold into “civ- 


ilized” slavery, may have been recruited as a soldier, or may have been 
driven out of his homeland by invaders. Barbarians share no bond | 
with each other unless they come from the same tribe or land. In fact, | 

Races: Human barbarians come from the distant wild lan lands on 
the edge of civilization. Most half-orc barbarians lived among orcs 
before abandoning them for human lands. Dwarf barbarians are | 
rare, usually hailing from dwarven kingdoms that have fallen into | 
barbarism as a result of recurrent war with goblinoids, orcs, and | 
giants. Barbarians of other races are very rare. a Sa 

Among the brutal humanoids, barbarians are more common | 
than fighters. Orcs and ogres are especially likely to be barbarians. | 

Other Classes: As people of the wild, barbarians are most com- | 
fortable in the company of rangers, druids, and clerics of nature 
deities, such as Obad-Hai or Ehlonna. Many barbarians admire the 
talents and spontaneity of bards, and some are enthusiastic lovers of 
music. Barbarians don't trust that which they don’t understand, and 
that includes wizardry, which they call “book magic.” They find sor- 
cerers more understandable than wizards, but maybe that’s just 
because sorcerers tend to be more charismatic. Monks, with their 
studied, practiced, deliberate approach to combat, sometimes have a 
hard time seeing eye to eye with barbarians, but members of these 
classes aren't necessarily hostile to each other. Barbarians have no 
special attitude toward fighters, paladins, clerics, or rogues. 

Role: A barbarian’s typical primary role in a group of adventur- 
ers is as a front-line combat specialist. No other character can 
match his sheer toughness. He can also serve as a good scout, 
thanks to his speed, skill selection, and trap sense. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


Barbarians have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Strength is important for barbarians because of its 

role in combat, and several barbarian class skills are based on 

Strength. Dexterity is also useful to barbarians, especially those 

who wear light armor. Wisdom is also important for several of the 

barbarian’s class skills. A high Constitution score lets a barbarian 

rage longer (and live longer, because it gives him more hit points). | 
Alignment: Any nonlawful. 
Hit Die: d12. 


+ 
— + 


— —4 


Class Skills 


The barbarian’ class skills (and the key ability for each skill) ar T 
Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Handle Animal (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), | 
‘Jump (Str), Listen (Wis), Ride (Dex), Survival (Wis), and Swim 
| (Str). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
__ Skill Points at 1st Level: (4 + Int modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier. 


er aP ED S SSE ene Ree ian as Sn SES XAN ‘+ ee 24 7 $ $ Fr <3 
at ee 

Class Features The increase in Constitution increases the barbarian’s hit points 

All of the following are class features of the barbarian. by 2 points per level, but these hit points go away at the end of the 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A barbarian is proficient rage when his Constitution score drops back to normal. (These 

with all simple and martial weapons, light armor, medium armor, extra hit points are not lost first the way temporary hit points are; 

and shields (except tower shields). see Temporary Hit Points, page 146.) While raging, a barbarian 


Fast Movement (Ex): A barbarian's land 
speed is faster than the norm for his race by 
+10 feet. This benefit applies only when he 
is wearing no armor, light armor, or medium 


cannot use any Charisma-, Dexterity-, or Intelligence-based 
skills (except for Balance, Escape Artist, Intimidate, and 

Ride), the Concentration skill, or any abilities that require 

patience or concentration, nor can he cast spells or activate 
armor and not carrying a heavy load. Apply magic items that require a command word, a 
this bonus before modifying the barbar- spell trigger (such as a wand), or spell comple- 
ians speed because of any load carried or bo ——— ee tion (such as a scroll) to function. He can use 
armor worn. For example, a human wy any feat he has except Combat Expertise, item 
barbarian has a speed of 40 feet, creation feats, and metamagic 
rather than 30 feet, when wearing feats. A fit of rage lasts for a 
light or no armor. When wearing number of rounds equal to 3 
medium armor or carrying a + the character's (newly 
medium load, his speed drops to "e improved) Constitution 
30 feet. A halfling barbarian has modifier. A barbarian 
a speed of 30 feet, rather than 20 may prematurely end his 
feet, in light or no armor. When rage. At the end of the 
wearing medium armor or car- rage, the barbarian loses the 
rying a medium load, his speed rage modifiers and restrictions 
drops to 20 feet. and becomes fatigued (—2 penalty 

Illiteracy: Barbarians are the to Strength, —2 penalty to Dexterity, 
only characters who do not auto- can't charge or run) for the duration of 
matically know how to read and the current encounter (unless he is a 
write. A barbarian may spend 2 17th-level barbarian, at which point 
skill points to gain the ability to this limitation no longer applies; 
read and write all languages he is able to speak. . _ see below). 

A barbarian who gains a level in any other Fi oa A barbarian can fly into a 
class automatically gains literacy. Any other rage only once per encounter. At 
character who gains a barbarian level does ist level he can use his rage 
not lose the literacy he or she already had. ability once per day. At 

Rage (Ex): A barbarian can fly into a 4th level and every four 
screaming blood frenzy a certain levels thereafter, he can 
number of times per day. In a rage, a use it one additional time 
barbarian gains phenomenal per day (to a maximum of 
strength and durability but be- a à mes SS" six times per day at 20th 
comes reckless and less able to > level). Entering a rage takes no time 
defend himself. He temporarily itself, but a barbarian can do it only during his 
gains a +4 bonus to Strength, a +4 bonus to Constitution, and a +2 action (see Initiative, page 136), not in response to someone 
morale bonus on Will saves, but he takes a —2 penalty to Armor Class. else’s action. A barbarian can't, for example, fly into a rage when 


f , A h 
Yep 


TABLE 3—3: THE BARBARIAN 


Base Fort Ref Will 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 
Ist +1 +2 +0 +0 Fast movement, illiteracy, rage 1/day 
2nd +2 +3 +0 +0 Uncanny dodge 
3rd +3 +3 +1 +] Trap sense +1 
4th +4 +4 +] +] Rage 2/day 
5th +5 +4 +1 +1 Improved uncanny dodge 
6th +6/+1 +5 +2 +2 Trap sense +2 
7th +7/+2 +5 +2 +2 Damage reduction 1/— 
8th +8/+3 +6 +2 +2 Rage 3/day 
9th +9/+4 +6 3) ae) Trap sense +3 
10th +10/+5 +7 +3 +3 Damage reduction 2/— 
11th +11/+6/+1 apd aps) +3 Greater rage 
12th +12/+7/+2 +8 +4 +4 Rage 4/day, trap sense +4 
13th +13/+8/+3 +8 +4 +4 Damage reduction 3/— 
14th +14/+9/+4 +9 +4 +4 Indomitable will 
15th +15/+10/+5 +9 435) 285) Trap sense +5 
16th +16/+11/+6/+1 +10 +5 +5 Damage reduction 4/—, rage 5/day 
17th +17/4+12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +5 Tireless rage 
18th +18/+13/+8/+3 +11 +6 +6 Trap sense +6 
19th +19/+14/+9/+4 +11 +6 +6 Damage reduction 5/— 
20th +20/+15/+10/+5 +12 +6 +6 Mighty rage, rage 6/day 


rr <> 
> > ie s ST a 4 
E À TA EA A EA PRAT F- EAEN ; ‘> 
$ Er, y S AT +3 p FA oe p3 rt ng 
= KF ba A "2 ` K ASE * $ ea aan A rear 5 ziga SIN “at 


struck down by an arrow in order to get the extra hit points from 


the increased Constitution, although the extra hit points would be 
of benefit if he had gone into a rage earlier in the round, before the 
arrow struck. 


Uncanny Dodge (Ex): At 2nd level, a barbarian gains the ability _ 
to react to danger before his senses would normally allow him to do | 
_so. He retains his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) even if he is caught | } 


flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. However, he still loses 
| his Dexterity bonus to AC if immobilized. 


+ 


t 


+ 
Ifa barbarian already has uncanny dodge from a different class | 


(a barbarian with at least four levels of rogue, for example), he | 


[automatically gains improved uncanny dodge (see below) instead. 

Trap Sense (Ex): Starting at 3rd level, a barbarian has an intu- 
itive sense that alerts him to danger from traps, giving him a +1 
bonus on Reflex saves made to avoid traps and a +1 dodge bonus to 
AC against attacks made by traps. These bonuses rise by +1 every 
three barbarian levels thereafter (6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th 
level). Trap sense bonuses gained from multiple classes stack. 

Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex): At Sth level and higher, a 


H 


[barbarian can no longer be flanked; he can react to opponents on} 


opposite sides of him as easily as he can react to a single attacker. | 


This defense denies a rogue the ability to sneak attack the barbar- 
ian by flanking him, unless the attacker has at least four more 
rogue levels than the target has barbarian levels. 

If a character already has uncanny dodge (see above) from a 
second class, the character automatically gains improved uncanny 
dodge instead, and the levels from the classes that grant uncanny 

| dodge stack to determine the minimum level a rogue must be to 
flank the character. 

| Damage Reduction (Ex): At 7th level, a barbarian gains the 
[ability to shrug off some amount of injury from each blow or 
lattack. Subtract 1 from the damage the barbarian takes each time 
_he is dealt damage from a weapon or a natural attack. At 10th level, 
Land every three barbarian levels thereafter (13th, 16th, and 19th 
level), this damage reduction rises by 1 point. Damage reduction 
can reduce damage to 0 but not below 0. 


Greater Rage (Ex): At 11th level, a barbarian’s bonuses to. 


Strength and Constitution during his rage each increase to +6, and. 


his morale bonus on Will saves increases to +3. The penalty to AC t 


remains at —2. 

Indomitable Will (Ex): While in a rage, a barbarian of 14th. 
level or higher gains a +4 bonus on Will saves to resist enchant- 
ment spells. This bonus stacks with all other modifiers, including 
the morale bonus on Will saves he also receives during his rage. 

Tireless Rage (Ex): At 17th level and higher, a barbarian no 
longer becomes fatigued at the end of his rage. 

Mighty Rage (Ex): At 20th level, a barbarian’s bonuses to 
Strength and Constitution during his rage each increase to +8, 
Land his morale bonus on Will saves increases to +4. The penalty to 
LAC remains at —2. 


+ 
Ex-Barbarians s 
A barbarian who becomes lawful loses the ability to rage and 
cannot gain more levels as a barbarian. He retains all the other 
benefits of the class (damage reduction, fast movement, trap sense, 
and uncanny dodge). 


Half-Orc Barbarian Starting Package 
Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty —1, speed 
40 ft., 20 Ib.). 
| Weapons: Greataxe (1d12, crit x3, 12 lb., two-handed, slash- 


ing). 
J Shortbow (1d6, crit x3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 lb., piercing). 
Dagger (1d4, crit 19-20/Xx2, range inc. 10 ft., 1 lb., light, piercing). 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 4 + Int modi- 
fier. 


4 


Skill a Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty , 
Climb 4 Str -1 | 
Survival 4 Wis — | 
Listen 4 Wis — 4 

¿Jump aes Str -1 

{Swim 4 Str -2 

Ride _4 Dex — 
Intimidate 4 Cha — 
Spot (cc) 2 Wis = 


— — + 


Feat: Weapon Focus (greataxe). ] 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day's trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Quiver with 20 arrows. om 

Gold: 2d4 gp. | 


— + 


aS ne RR a 0 28 *| 


[It is said that music has a special magic, and the bard proves that, 
\saying true. Wandering across the land, gathering lore, telling sto-_ 
ities, working magic with his music, and living on the gratitude of 


his audience—such is the life of a bard. When chance or opportu- 
nity draws them into a conflict, bards serve as diplomats, negotia-_ 
tors, messengers, scouts, and spies. 

A bard’s magic comes from the heart. If his heart is good, a bard 
brings hope and courage to the downtrodden and uses his tricks, 
music, and magic to thwart the schemes of evildoers. If the nobles 
of the land ar are corrupt, the good bard is an enemy. Lof the state, cun- | 


hearts and minds of others and n what Peers audiences | 
“willingly” give. —w | 

Adventures: Bards see adventures as opportunities to learn. | 
They practice their many skills and abilities, and they especially | 
relish the opportunity to enter a long-forgotten tomb, to discover 
ancient works of magic, to decipher old tomes, to travel to strange 
places, to encounter exotic creatures, and to learn new songs and 
stories. Bards love to accompany heroes (and villains), joining 
their entourage to witness their deeds firsthand—a bard who can 
tell a marvelous story from personal experience earns renown 
among his fellows. Indeed, after telling so many stories about 
heroes doing mighty deeds, many bards take these themes to heart 
and assume heroic roles themselves. 

Characteristics: A bard brings forth magic from his soul, not 
from a book. He can cast only a small number of spells, but he can 
do so without selecting or preparing them in advance. His magic 
emphasizes charms and illusions over the more dramatic evoca- 
tion spells that wizards and sorcerers often use. 

In addition to spells, a bard works magic with his music and 
poetry. He can encourage allies, hold his audiences rapt, and 
counter magical effects that rely on speech or sound. 

Bards have some of the skills that rogues have, although bards 
are not as focused on skill mastery as rogues are. A bard listens to 
stories as well as telling them, of course, so he has a vast knowl- 
edge of local events and noteworthy items. 

Alignment: Bards are wanderers, guided by whim and intu- 
ition rather than by tradition or law. The spontaneous talent, | 
magic, and lifestyle of the bard are incompatible with a ee 
alignment. 

Religion: Bards revere Fharlanghn (god of roads). They son et 


times camp near his wayside shrines, hoping to earn some coin, 


from the travelers who stop to leave offerings for the god. Many | 
bards, even those who are not elves, worship Corellon Larethian, | 


| god of the elves and patron of poetry and music. Many good bards 
lare partial to Pelor (god of the sun), believing that he watches over 
them in their travels. Bards given to chaos and occasional larceny 


favor Olidammara (god of thieves). Those who have turned to evil 


Lag aS I he? ok es aE S : SS Pre eR ae Mig Ss 
ae a ee 
ways are known to worship Erythnul (god of slaughter), though Bards are exceedingly rare among the savage humanoids, ex- 
few admit to it. In any event, bards spend.so much time on the cept among centaurs. Centaur bards sometimes train the children 


of humans or other humanoids. 

Other Classes: A bard works well 
with companions of other classes. He 
often serves as the spokesman of the 
party, using his social skills for the 
party's benefit. In a party without 
a wizard or sorcerer, the bard con- 

tributes his magic. In a party 
\ without a rogue, he uses his 
¿| skills. A bard is curious about 

the ways of more focused or 
dedicated adventurers, so he 
often_tries to pick up 
pointers from fighters, 
sorcerers, and_rogues. 
Role: The bard is perhaps the 
ultimate generalist. In most 
adventuring groups, he works 
best in a supporting role. He can't 
usually match the stealth of the 
ranger_or the rogue, the 
spellcasting power of the 
cleric or the wizard, or the 
combat prowess of the bar- 
barian or the fighter. How- 
ever, he makes all the other 
characters better at what 
ing ways suit many half- they do, and he can often fill 
elves, who often feel like Gy 4 Lt] in for another character when 
strangers even when at JE # ‘oo needed. For a typical group of 
home. Half-orcs, even , four characters, the bard is 
those raised among ’ perhaps the most useful fifth 
humans, find themselves ill character to consider adding, 
suited to the demands of a bard's | and he can make a great team leader. 
career. There are no bardic tradi- ; = S 


road that, while they may be devoted to a deity, they are rarely 
devoted to any particular temple. 

Background: An apprentice bard learns his skills from a 
single experienced bard, whom he follows and serves until he is 
ready to strike out on his own. Many bards were once young run- 
aways or orphans, befriended by wandering bards who became 
their mentors. Since bards occasionally congregate in informal 
“colleges,” the apprentice bard may 
meet many of the more prominent C pegig 
bards in the area. Still, a bard has no LA <> N 
strong allegiance to bards as a whole. JA Ld 
In fact, some are highly competitive 
with other bards, jealous of their $ 
reputations and defensive about 
their territories. 

Races: Bards are commonly 
human, gnome, elf, or half-elf. 
Humans take well to the wander- 
ing life and adapt easily to new 
lands and customs. Gnomes 
have a sense of humor and 
trickery that lends itself to a 
bardic career. Elves are tal- 
ented in music and magic, so 
the career of the bard 
comes naturally to 
them. A bard’s wander- 


N 
`~ 
S 
a 

Ş 
F 

= 
N 
~A 


tions among dwarves or halflings, W amie Ee GAME RULE INFORMATION 

though occasional individu- MLL MA, Bards have the following game statistics. 
als of these races find $ 7 Tla WORS Bas Abilities: Charisma determines how 
teachers to train them in the ways of E- ES, _powerful a spell a bard can cast, how 


the bard. 


many spells he can cast per day, and how 


TABLE 3—4: THE BARD 


Base Fort Ref Will Spells per Day 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 0 Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 
Ist +0 +0 +2 +2 Bardic music, bardic knowledge, 2 
countersong, fascinate, inspire courage +1 
2nd_ +] +0 43 +3. 3.0 
3rd +2 +1 +3 +3 Inspire competence 3 1 
4th +3 +] +4 +4 el AS | ee 
5th +3 +1 +4 +4 3 3 1 — — — — 
6th +4 +2 +5 +5 Suggestion Da ae a a 
7th +5 +2 +5 +5 SO s = = 
8th  =+6/+1 +2 +6 +6 Inspire courage +2 3 3 3 Ss 
9th = +6/+1 +3 +6 +6 Inspire greatness 3 3 3 2 o ā = = = 
10th +7/+2 +3 +7 +7 pn a ey ee | ee 
llth = +8/+3 +3 +7 +7 3 3 3 3 T = — 
12th  +9/+4 +4 +8 +8 Song of freedom 3 n a ae 
13th +9/+4 +4 +8 +8 3 3 8 3 2 U = 
14th +10/+5 +4 +9 +9 Inspire courage +3 4 3 3 3 3 T 
15th +11/+6/+1 +5 +9 +9 Inspire heroics 4A ee ee 
16th = +12/+7/+2 +5 +10 +10 4 4 4 3 3 2 0 
17th = +12/+7/+2 +5 +10 +10 4 4 4 4 3 3 1 
18th +13/+8/+3 +6 +11 +11 Mass suggestion 44 __4 __4_ 4 3) 
19th = +14/+9/+4 +6 +11 +11 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 
20th = +15/+10/+5 +6 +12 +12 Inspire courage +4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 
soa eee, S aE 
tae = A A E > EN N ee <a 
Ae 4 on ow.” yore Bare ee a c3 J Str asis 5 %. = 
>» ay xe (RS spe “9 ~— h Re o WA gar e $ ae ee 7 Br Se Sak a i Srg _ & oe 


hard those spells are to resist (see Spells, below). Charisma, Dex- 
terity, and Intelligence are important for many of the bard’s class 
skills. 

Alignment: Any nonlawful. 

Hit Die: d6. + 


—F, 


Class Skills 


\The bard’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Apd 


| praise (Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Concentra- | 
‚tion (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy (Cha),| 
Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Gather Information (Cha), | 
| Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (all skills, taken individually) 
(Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Perform (Cha), Profession 


= 
Class Features 


(Wis), Sense Motive (Wis), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Speak Lan- 

guage (n/a), Spellcraft (Int), Swim (Str), Tumble (Dex), and Use 

Magic Device (Cha). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (6 + Int modifier) x 4. 


Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier. { 


All of the following are class features of the bard. | 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A bard is proficient with all 
simple weapons, plus the longsword, rapier, sap, short sword, 
shortbow, and whip. Bards are proficient with light armor and 
shields (except tower shields). 
Because the somatic components required for bard spells are 


(relatively simple, a bard can cast bard spells while wearing light 
larmor without incurring the normal arcane spell failure chance. 


| However, like any other arcane spellcaster, 


a bard wearing 


medium or heavy armor or using a shield incurs a chance of 
,arcane spell failure if the spell in question has a somatic compo- 
inent (most do). A multiclass bard still incurs the normal arcane 
_spell failure chance for arcane spells received from other classes. 


TABLE 3—5: BARD SPELLS KNOWN 


11th 
112th 
113th 
114th 


i 


Spells Known 


2nd 3rd_ 4th sth 


Level 6th 
Ist 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
6th 
7th 
8th 
9th 

10th 


N 


PS 


| 


N 
| 


15th 
16th 
17th 
18th 
19th 
20th 6 5 ee 5 


1 Provided the bard has a high enough Charisma score to have a 
bonus spell of this level. 


DANA AANAAAAAAAAAGAAAAN HLS 
Uunh HR HHH HAHA HHH HWW 

| 

uUwnppP HP HHA HHA HHP PWW 

unk DPR HHL HH HWW 
ub HHP HP HP WW 


mB. As Rok 


Spells: A bard casts arcane spells (the same type of spells avail- 
able to sorcerers and wizards), which are drawn from the bard spell 


list (page 181). He can cast any spell he knows without preparing it 


ahead of time, the way a wizard or cleric must (see below). Most 
bard spells have a verbal component (singing, reciting, or music). 


To learn or cast a spell, a bard must have a Charisma score equal | 
to at least 10 + the spell level (Cha 10 for 0-level spells, Cha 11 for | 


1st-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a saving, 
throw against a bard’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the bard's | 
Charisma modifier. 

Like other spellcasters, a bard can cast only a certain number of. 
ispells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell allotment is 
| given on Table 3-4: The Bard. In addition, he receives bonus spells 
\per day if he has a high Charisma score (see Table 1-1: Ability 

Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3—4 indicates 
that the bard gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for in-, 
‚stance, 1st-level spells for a 2nd-level bard), he gains only the. 
‘bonus spells he would be entitled to based on his Charisma score. 
for that spell level. 

The bard's selection of spells is ae limited. A A bard begins 
choice. At most new hami levels, he gains one or more new spells, | | 
as indicated on Table 3-5: Bard Spells Known. (Unlike spells per 

„day, the number of spells a bard knows is not affected by his 
{Charisma score; the numbers on Table 3—5 are fixed.) 

| Upon reaching 5th level, and at every third bard level after that. 
(8th, 11th, and so on), a bard can choose to learn a new spell in 
place of one he already knows. In effect, the bard “loses” the old 
spell in exchange for the new one. The new spell’s level must be. 
the same as that of the spell being exchanged, and it must be at 
least two levels lower than the highest-level bard spell the bard 
can cast. For instance, upon reaching 5th level, a bard could trade 
in a single 0-level spell (two spell levels below the highest-level 
bard spell he can cast, which is 2nd) for a different 0-level spell. At. 
.8th level, he could trade in a single 0-level or 1st-level spell (since | 
he now can cast 3rd-level bard spells) for a different spell of the | 
same level. A bard may swap only a single spell at any given level, 
and must choose whether or not to swap the spell at the same time | 
that he gains new spells known for the level. 

As noted above, a bard need not prepare his spells in advance. | 
He can cast any spell he knows at any time, assuming he has not 
yet used up his allotment of spells per day for the spell’s level. For 
example, at 1st level, Gimble the bard can cast two 0-level spells 
knows four 0-level spells: detect magic, ane sound, light, and read 
magic (see Table 3-5: Bard Spells Known). Thus, on any given day, 
he can cast some combination of those four spells a total of two 
times. He does not have to decide ahead of time which spells 
he'll cast. — = 

Bardic Knowledge: A bard picks up a lot of stray knowledge 
while wandering the land and learning stories from other bards. 
He may make a special bardic knowledge check with a bonus 
equal to his bard level + his Intelligence modifier to see whether 
he knows some relevant information about local notable people, 
legendary items, or noteworthy places. (If the bard has 5 or more 
ranks in Knowledge (history), he gains a +2 bonus on this check.) 
DC _ Type of Knowledge 
10 Common, known by at least 

a substantial minority 
of the local population. 


Examples 

A local mayor’s reputation for 
drinking; common legends 
about a powerful place of 
mystery. 

A local priest’s shady past; 
legends about a powerful 

magic item. | 
A knight’s family history; | 
legends about a minor place 
of mystery or magic item. 

A mighty wizard’s childhood 
nickname; the history of a 
petty magic item. 


20 Uncommon but available, 
known by only a few people 
in the area. 

25 Obscure, known by few, 
hard to come by. 


30 Extremely obscure, known 

by very few, possibly forgotten 
by most who once knew 

it, possibly known only by 
those who don’t understand 
the significance of the knowledge. 


A successful bardic knowledge check will not reveal the powers 
of a magic item but may give a hint as to its general function. A 
bard may not take 10 or take 20 on this check; this sort of knowl- 
edge is essentially random. The DM can determine the Difficulty 
Class of the check by referring to the table above. 

Bardic Music: Once per day per bard level, a bard can use his| 
_song or poetics to produce magical effects on those around him| 4 
| (usually including himself, if desired). While these abilities fall, 
Lunder the category of bardic music and the descriptions discuss} 
„singing or playing instruments, they can all be activated by recit- | 
Ling poetry, chanting, singing lyrical songs, singing melodies (fa- | 
(la-la, and so forth), whistling, playing an instrument, or playing 
_an instrument in combination with some spoken performance. 

Each ability requires both a minimum bard level and a minimum 
number of ranks in the Perform skill to qualify; if a bard does not 
have the required number of ranks in at least one Perform skill, 
he does not gain the bardic music ability until he acquires the 
needed ranks. 
| Starting a bardic music effect is a standard action. Some bardicl 4 
| music abilities require concentration, which means the bard must} 
take a standard action each round to maintain the ability. Even while | 
using bardic music that doesn't require concentration, a bard cannot 
cast spells, activate magic items by spell completion (such as scrolls), 
or activate magic items by magic word (such as wands). Just as for 
casting a spell with a verbal component (see Components, page 174), 
a deaf bard has a 20% chance to fail when attempting to use bardic 
music. If he fails, the attempt still counts against his daily limit. 
| Countersong (Su): A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform skill 
lcan use his music or poetics to counter magical effects that depend 
on sound (but not spells that simply have verbal components). Each 
round of the countersong, he makes a Perform check. Any creature 
(within 30 feet of the bard (including the bard himself) that is 
_affected by a sonic or language-dependent magical attack (such as a 
\sound burst or command spell) may use the bard’s Perform check 
result in place of its saving throw if, after the saving throw is rolled, 
the Perform check result proves to be higher. If a creature within 
range of the countersong is already under the effect of a noninstan- 
taneous sonic or language-dependent magical attack, it gains, 


another saving throw against the effect each round it hears the | 
countersong, but it must use the bard’s Perform check result for the | 


save. Countersong has no effect against effects that don't allow. 
saves. The bard may keep up the countersong for 10 rounds. 

Fascinate (Sp): A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform skill can 
use his music or poetics to cause one or more creatures to become 
fascinated with him. Each creature to be fascinated must be 
within 90 feet, able to see and hear the bard, and able to pay atten- 
tion to him. The bard must also be able to see the creature. The dis- 

„traction of a nearby combat or other dangers prevents the ability 
from working. For every three levels a bard attains beyond 1st, he 
ican target one additional creature with a single use of this ability 
| (two at 4th level, three at 7th level, and so on). 

To use the ability, a bard makes a Perform check. His check 
result is the DC for each affected creature's Will save against the 
effect. If a creature’s saving throw succeeds, the bard cannot 
attempt to fascinate that creature again for 24 hours. If its saving 
throw fails, the creature sits quietly and listens to the song, taking 
no other actions, for as long as the bard continues to play and con- 
centrate (up to a maximum of 1 round per bard level). While fasci- 
nated, a target takes a —4 penalty on skill checks made as reactions, 

_such as Listen and Spot checks. Any potential threat, such as an 
(ally of the bard approaching the fascinated creature, requires the 
bard to make another Perform check and allows the creature a new 
_\saving throw against a DC equal to the new Perform check result. 
| Any obvious threat, such as someone drawing a weapon, casting a 
‚spell, or aiming a ranged weapon at the target, automatically 
breaks the effect. Fascinate is an enchantment (compulsion), mind- | 
affecting ability. 


Inspire Courage (Su): A bard with 3 or more ranks in a Perform. 
skill can use song or poetics to inspire courage in his allies (includ-| 
ing himself), bolstering them against fear and improving their | 
combat abilities. To be affected, an ally must be able to hear the bard | 

_sing. The effect lasts for as long as the ally hears the bard sing and 
| for 5 rounds thereafter. An affected ally receives a +1 morale bonus 
Lon saving throws against charm and fear effects and a +1 morale 
bonus on attack and weapon damage rolls. At 8th level, and every 
six bard levels thereafter, this bonus increases by 1 (+2 at 8th, +3 at. 
14th, and +4 at 20th). Inspire courage is a mind-affecting ability. 

Inspire Competence (Su): A bard of 3rd level or higher with 6 or | 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use his music or poetics to help 
an ally succeed at a task. The ally must be within 30 feet and able 
to see and hear the bard. The bard must also be able to see the ally. 
Depending on the task that the ally has at hand, the bard may use | 
his bardic music to lift the ally’s spirits, to help him or her focus 

mentally, or in some other way. The ally gets a +2 competence 

bonus on skill checks with a particular skill as long as he or she, 
continues to hear the bard’s music. The DM may rule that certain. 

_uses of this ability are infeasible—chanting to make a rogue move 
more quietly, for example, is self-defeating. The effect lasts as long , 
as the bard concentrates, up to a maximum of 2 minutes. A bard | 
can't inspire competence in himself. Inspire competence is a 
mind-affecting ability. 

Suggestion (Sp): A bard of 6th level or higher \ with 9 or more 
ranks in a Perform skill can make a suggestion (as the spell) to a, 
creature that he has already fascinated (see above), Using this abil-| 


lity does not break the bard’s concentration on the fascinate effect, | 


nor does it allow a second saving throw against the fascinate effect. | 
Making a suggestion doesn't count against a bard’s daily limit on | 
bardic music performances. A Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2) 
bard's level + bards Cha modifier) negates the effect. This ability] A 
affects only a single creature (but see mass suggestion, below). Sug- | 
gestion is an enchantment (compulsion), mind-affecting, language- 
dependent ability. 

Inspire Greatness (Su): A bard of 9th level or higher with 12 or 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to inspire 
greatness in himself or a single willing ally within 30 feet, grant- 
ing him or her extra fighting capability. For every three levels a 
bard attains beyond 9th, he can target one additional ally with a 
single use of this ability (two at 12th level, three at 15th, four at 
18th). To inspire greatness, a bard must sing and an ally must 
hear him sing. The effect lasts for as long as the ally hears the 
bard sing and for 5 rounds thereafter. A creature inspired with 
greatness gains 2 bonus Hit Dice (d10s), the commensurate 
number of temporary hit points (apply the target’s Constitution 
modifier, if any, to these bonus Hit Dice), a +2 competence 
bonus on attack rolls, and a +1 competence bonus on Fortitude 
saves. The bonus Hit Dice count as regular Hit Dice for deter- 
mining the effect of spells such as sleep. Inspire greatness is a 
mind-affecting ability. 

Song of Freedom (Sp): A bard of 12th level or higher with 15 or 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to create an 
effect equivalent to the break enchantment spell (caster level equals 
the character’s bard level). Using this ability requires 1 minute of 
uninterrupted concentration and music, and it functions on a 
single target within 30 feet. A bard can't use song of freedom on him- | 
self. i 

Inspire Heroics (Su): A bard of 15th level or higher with 18 or | 
more ranks in a Perform skill can use music or poetics to inspire | 

tremendous heroism in himself or a single willing ally within 30 | 
feet, allowing that creature to fight bravely even against over-| 
whelming odds. For every three bard levels the character attains t 
inspire heroics a bard must sing and an ally must hear the bard 
sing for a full round. A creature so inspired gains a +4 morale 
bonus on saving throws and a +4 dodge bonus to AC. The effect 


29 


305 


lasts for as long as the ally hears the bard sing and for up to 5 
rounds thereafter. Inspire heroics is a mind-affecting ability. 

Mass Suggestion (Sp): This ability functions like suggestion, above, 
except that a bard of 18th level or higher with 21 or more ranks in 
a Perform skill can make the suggestion simultaneously to any. 


number of creatures that he has already fascinated (see above). | 


| Mass suggestion is an enchantment (compulsion), mind-affecting, | 
language-dependent ability. | 
t 


Ex-Bards 


LA bard who becomes lawful in alignment cannot progress in levels] 
Las a bard, though he retains all his bard abilities. 


Gnome Bard Starting Package 


Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty -1, 
arcane spell failure chance n/a, speed 20 ft., 10 Ib.). 
_. Weapons: Longsword (1d6, crit 19-20/x2, 2 1b., one-handed, 
slashing). 

Light crossbow (1d6, crit 19-20/x2, range inc. 80 ft., 2 1b., at 
ing). i 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 6 + Int modi- | 
fier. 


Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check reck Penalty 
Perform (string instruments) 4 Cha 

Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Use Magic Device 4 Cha — 
{Gather Information 4 Cha — 
| Listen 4 Wis = 
| Decipher Script 4 1 a 
| Diplomacy 4 Cha — 
{Knowledge (any one) 4 [Nai meaa a 
‚Sleight of Hand 4 Dex -1 
| Disguise 4 Cha — 


Feat: If Dexterity is 13 or higher, Dodge; if Dexterity is 12 or 
lower, Improved Initiative instead. 

Spells Known: 0 level—detect magic, ghost sound, light, read. 
magic. al 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, | 
sack, and flint and steel. Three torches. Case with 10 crossbow, 
bolts. Lute (common). Spell component pouch. 

Gold: 2d4 gp. 


The handiwork of the gods is everywhere—in places of natural 
beauty, in mighty crusades, in soaring temples, and in the hearts of 
worshipers. Like people, gods run the gamut from benevolent to 
| malicious, reserved to intrusive, simple to inscrutable. The gods, 
however, work mostly through intermediaries—their clerics. 

Good clerics heal, protect, and avenge. Evil clerics pillage, destroy, 

and sabotage. A cleric uses the power of his god to make the god's 

will manifest. And if a cleric uses his god's power to improve his 
own lot, that’s to be expected, too. 

Adventures: Ideally, a cleric’s adventures support his god’s 
causes, at least in a general way. A good cleric, for example, helps 
those in need. If, through noble acts, he can improve the reputa- 
tion of his god or temple, that’s even better. An evil cleric seeks to 
‚increase his own power and that of his deity, so that others will 
_respect and fear both. 

Clerics sometimes receive orders, or at least suggestions, from 

{heir ecclesiastical superiors, directing them to undertake mis- 
isions for the church. The clerics and their companions are com- 

_pensated fairly for these missions, and the church may be espe- 

cially generous with the casting of needed spells or divine magic 

items as payment. 


+ 


Of course, clerics are people, too, and they may have any or all. 

of the more common motivations for adventuring. | 

Characteristics: Clerics are masters of divine magic, which is | 

especially good at healing. Even an inexperienced cleric can bring | 
people back from the brink of death, and an experienced cleric 


ican bring back people who have crossed over that brink. 


| As channelers of divine energy, clerics can affect undead crea- 
tures. A good cleric can turn away or even destroy undead; an evil 
cleric can bring such creatures under his control. 

Clerics have some combat training. They can use simple | 
| weapons, and they are trained in the use of armor, since armor does | 
not interfere with divine spells the way it does with arcane spells. 

Alignment: Like the gods they serve, clerics can be of any 
alignment. Because people more readily worship good deities, 
than neutral or evil ones, there are more good than evil clerics. | 
Clerics also tend toward law instead of chaos, since lawful reli- 
.gions tend to be more structured and better able to recruit and 
[train clerics than chaotic ones. 

| Typically, a cleric is the same alignment as his deity, though, 


some clerics are one step away from their respective deities in 


alignment. For example, most clerics of Heironeous, the god of 

valor (who is lawful good), are lawful good, but some are lawful. 
neutral or neutral good. Additionally, a cleric may not be neutral 

(that is, neutral on both the good-evil axis and the lawful-chaotic 

axis) unless his deity is also neutral. 

Religion: Every reasonably well- known. deity. has clerics 
devoted to him or her, so clerics can be of any religion. The deity | 

¿most commonly worshiped by human clerics in civilized lands is | 
Pelor (god of the sun). The majority of nonhuman clerics are. 
devoted to the chief god of the appropriate racial pantheon. Most | 
clerics are officially ordained members of religious organizations, } 
commonly called churches. Each has sworn to uphold the ideals | 
of his church. | 

Some clerics devote themselves not to a god but to a cause or a 
source of divine power. These characters wield magic the way cler- 
ics devoted to individual gods do, but they are not associated with 
any religious institution or any particular practice of worship. A 
cleric devoted to good and law, for example, may be on friendly 
terms with the clerics of lawful and good deities and may extol the 
virtues of a good and lawful life, but he is not a functionary in a 
church hierarchy. 

Background: Most clerics join their churches as young adults, 
though some are devoted to a god's service from a young age, and 
a few feel the call later in life. While some clerics are tightly 
bound to their churches’ activities on a daily basis, others have 
more freedom to conduct their lives as they please, so long as they 
do so in accordance with their gods’ wishes. 

Clerics of a given religion are all supposed to get along, though 
schisms within a church are often more bitter than conflicts 
between religions. Clerics who share some basic ideals, such as 
goodness or lawfulness, may find common cause with each other 
and see themselves as part of an order or body that supersedes any 
given religion. Clerics of opposed goals, however, are sworn ene- 
mies. In civilized lands, open warfare between religions occurs 
only during civil wars and similar social upheavals, but vicious 
politicking between opposing churches is common. 

Races: All the common races are represented in this class, since | 
the need for religion and divine magic is universal. The clerics of , 
most races, however, are too focused on their religious duties to | 
undertake an adventurer’s life. Crusading, adventuring clerics | 

most often come from the human and dwarf races. = 

Among the savage humanoids, clerics are_ less common, The] 
exception is troglodytes, who take well to divine magic and are | 

loften led by priests who make a practice of sacrificing and devour- 

ling captives. 
__ Other Classes: In an adventuring party, the cleric is every- 
body’s friend and often the glue that holds the party together. As 


b Es $ 


ra: <= ~ a. oe es Sire - hes = 
2, "x + a ` Bia = — 
maA E. ATi 


the one who can channel divine energy, a cleric is a capable healer, 
and adventurers of every class appreciate being put back together 
after they've taken some hard knocks. Clerics sometimes clash 
with druids, since druids represent an older, more primal relation- 
ship between the mortal and the divine. Mostly, though, the reli- 
gion of a cleric determines how he gets along with others. A 
cleric of Olidammara (god of thieves) gets along fine with 
rogues and ne’er-do-wells, for example, while a 
cleric of Heironeous (god of valor) rankles at 
such company. 

Role: The cleric serves as a typical 
group's primary healer, diviner, and defen- 
sive specialist. He can hold his own ina 
fight but usually isn’t well served by charg- 
ing to the front of combat. The cleric’s 
domains and spell selection can greatly 
affect his role as well. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


Clerics have the following game statistics. 

Abilities: Wisdom determines how pow- 
erful a spell a cleric can cast, how many spells 
he can cast per day, and how hard those spells 
are to resist (see Spells, below). A high Consti- 
tution score improves a cleric’s hit points, and 
a high Charisma score improves his abil- 
ity to turn undead. ; 

Alignment: A clerics alignment must. \ 
be within one step of his deity’s (that is, it 
may be one step away on either the 
lawful-chaotic axis or the good—evil axis, but not 
both). Exceptions are the clerics of St. 
Cuthbert (a lawful neutral deity), 
who may choose only between 
lawful good and lawful neutral for 
their alignment. A cleric may not 
be neutral unless his deity’s 
alignment is also neutral. 

Hit Die: ds. 


TABLE 3—6: THE CLERIC 


Base Fort Ref Will Spells per Day' 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 0 Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 
Ist +0 +2 +0 +2 Turn or rebuke undead 5 1+1 
2nd +l +3 +0 +3 4 2+1 
3rd +2 +3 +1 +3 4 2+1 1+ 
4th +3 +4 +1 +4 5 3+1 2+1 
5th +3 +4 +l +4 5 3+1 2+ 141 
6th +4 +5 +2 +5 5 3+1 3+1 2+1 
7th +5 E5 +2 +5 6 Atl 3 2el il 
8th +6/+1 +6 +2 +6 6 4+1 3+1 3+1 2+1 
9th +6/+1 +6 +3 +6 6 441 441 341 2tl oe 
10th +7/+2 +7 +3 +7 6 4+1 4+1 3+1 3+1 2+l 
11th +8/+3 a +3 +7 6 Stl 44 44) OB O21 = = á = 
12th +9/+4 +8 +4 +8 6 5+1 4+1 4+1 3+1 3+1 2+1 — —_— — 
13th +9/+4 +8 +4 +8 6 Stl Stl E 4 l A Oe = = 
14th +10/+5 +9 +4 +9 6 5+1 5+1 4+1 4+1 3+1 3+1 2+1 —— 
15th +11/+6/+1 +9 t5 +9 6 Spl Spl] SHbil He] BI] SHRI] EI] BI 
16th 4+12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +10 6 pi Al el lo ll 
17th +12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +10 6 SSS eee] GEE O 
18th +13/+8/+3 +11 +6 +11 6 5+] 3+1 5+4] 5+1 4+1 4+1 3+1 3+] 241 
19th +14/+9/+4 +11 +6 +11 6 Stl Stl Stl Sel Sel 4 a 3 3+ 
20th +15/+10/+5 +12 +6 +12 6 5+] 5+1 547 5+1 5+1 4+1 4+1 4+1 441 


1 In addition to the stated number of spells per day for 1st- through 9th-level spells, a cleric gets a domain spell for each spell level, starting at Ist. 
The “+1” in the entries on this table represents that spell. Domain spells are in addition to any bonus spells the cleric may receive for having a 


high Wisdom score. 


` a ~ 5 > 


Class Skills 
The cleric’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Con- 
centration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Heal (Wis), 
Knowledge (arcana) (Int), Knowledge (history) (Int), Knowledge 
(religion) (Int), Knowledge (the planes) (Int), Profession (Wis), 
and Spellcraft (Int). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
j Domains and Class Skills: A cleric who chooses the Animal 
or Plant domain adds Knowledge (nature) (Int) to the cleric class 
skills listed above. A cleric who chooses the Knowledge domain 
adds all Knowledge (Int) skills to the list. A cleric who chooses 
the Travel domain adds Survival (Wis) to 
the list. A cleric who chooses the Trick- 
ery domain adds Bluff (Cha), Disguise 
% (Cha), and Hide (Dex) to the list. See 
4 Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells, below, 
for more information. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + 
Int modifier. 


Jozan 


Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the 
cleric. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Clerics are 
proficient with all simple weapons, with all types 
of armor (light, medium, and heavy), and 


with shields (except tower 
& shields). 
Fe Every deity has a favored 


<< weapon (see Deities, page 106), 
’ and his or her clerics consider it 

a point of pride to wield that 
weapon. A cleric who chooses 
the War domain receives the 
Weapon Focus feat related to that 
weapon as a bonus feat. He also 
receives the appropriate Martial 
Weapon Proficiency feat as a bonus 
feat, if the weapon falls into that cate- 
gory. See Chapter 5: Feats for details. 


= "aa 


Are 


ane 
A x ms he X 
SSS RS Setar N = ME de ` 
3 Ts BA ve iA ES s es ty 
ne i Kys vn Read “As are a 
ow, gaa 5 Aat 


TABLE 3—7: DEITIES 


Deity Alignment Domains Typical Worshipers 
Heironeous, god of valor Lawful good Good, Law, War Paladins, fighters, monks 
Moradin, god of the dwarves Lawful good Earth, Good, Law, Protection Dwarves 

Yondalla, goddess of the halflings Lawful good Good, Law, Protection Halflings 


Ehlonna, goddess of the woodlands Neutral good 
Garl Glittergold, god of the gnomes 
Pelor, god of the sun 
Corellon Larethian, god of the elves 
Kord, god of strength 


Neutral good 
Neutral good 
Chaotic good 
Chaotic good 


Lawful neutral 
Lawful neutral 


Wee Jas, goddess of death and magic 
St. Cuthbert, god of retribution 


Boccob, god of magic Neutral 
Fharlanghn, god of roads Neutral 
Obad-Hai, god of nature Neutral 
Olidammara, god of thieves Chaotic neutral 
Hextor, god of tyranny Lawful evil 
Nerull, god of death Neutral evil 
Vecna, god of secrets Neutral evil 
Erythnul, god of slaughter Chaotic evil 
Gruumsh, god of the orcs Chaotic evil 


Aura (Ex): A cleric of a chaotic, evil, good, or lawful deity has a 
particularly powerful aura corresponding to the deity’s alignment 
| (see the detect evil spell for details). Clerics who don't worship a spe- 
l cific deity but choose the Chaotic, Evil, Good, or Lawful domain 
lhave a similarly powerful aura of the corresponding alignment. 

Spells: A cleric casts divine spells (the same type of spells avail- 
lable to the druid, paladin, and ranger), which are drawn from the 
icleric spell list (page 183). However, his alignment may restrict 
him from casting certain spells opposed to his moral or ethical 
beliefs; see Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells, below. A cleric 
must choose and prepare his spells in advance (see below). 

To prepare or cast a spell, a cleric must have a Wisdom score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 10 for 0-level spells, Wis 
11 for 1st-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a. 
saving throw against a cleric’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the | 
cleric’s Wisdom modifier. 


Like other spellcasters, a cleric can cast only a certain number. 


of spells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell allotment is 
given on Table 3—6: The Cleric. In addition, he receives bonus 
spells per day ifhe has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1-1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). A cleric also gets one domain 
spell of each spell level he can cast, starting at 1st level. When a 
cleric prepares a spell in a domain spell slot, it must come from 
„one of his two domains (see Deities, Domains, and Domain Spells, 
below, for details). 
¿Clerics do not acquire their spells from books or scrolls, nor do 
they prepare them through study. Instead, they meditate or pray 
for their spells, receiving them through their own strength of faith 
or as divine inspiration. Each cleric must choose a time at which he 
must spend 1 hour each day in quiet contemplation or supplication 
to regain his daily allotment of spells. Typically, this hour is at dawn 
or noon for good clerics and at dusk or midnight for evil ones. Time 
spent resting has no effect on whether a cleric can prepare spells. A 
cleric may prepare and cast any spell on the cleric spell list (page 
183), provided that he can cast spells of that level, but he must 
choose which spells to prepare during his daily meditation. 
__ Deity, Domains, and Domain Spells: Choose a deity for your 
cleric. Sample deities are listed on Table 3-7: Deities and described 
Lee pages 106-108. The cleric’s deity influences his alignment, 
{what magic he can perform, his values, and how others see him. 
You may also choose for your cleric to have no deity. 


If the typical worshipers of a deity include the members of a| 
race, a cleric must be of the indicated race to choose that deity as | 


Animal, Good, Plant, Sun 


Good, Protection, Trickery 
Good, Healing, Strength, Sun 
Chaos, Good, Protection, War 
Chaos, Good, Luck, Strength 


Death, Law, Magic 

Destruction, Law, Protection, Strength 
Knowledge, Magic, Trickery 

Luck, Protection, Travel 

Air, Animal, Earth, Fire, Plant, Water 
Chaos, Luck, Trickery 

Destruction, Evil, Law, War 

Death, Evil, Trickery 

Evil, Knowledge, Magic 

Chaos, Evil, Trickery, War 

Chaos, Evil, Strength, War 


Elves, gnomes, half-elves, halflings, 
rangers, druids 

Gnomes 

Rangers, bards 

Elves, half-elves, bards 

Fighters, barbarians, rogues, 
athletes 

Wizards, necromancers, sorcerers 
Fighters, monks, soldiers 

Wizards, sorcerers, sages 

Bards, adventurers, merchants 
Druids, barbarians, rangers 
Rogues, bards, thieves 

Evil fighters, monks 

Evil necromancers, rogues 

Evil wizards, sorcerers, rogues, spies 
Evil fighters, barbarians, rogues 
Half-orcs, orcs 


his own. (The god may have occasional worshipers of other races, 
but not clerics.) 
When you have chosen an alignment and a deity for your cleric, | 


¿choose two domains from among those given on Table 3-7 for the | 


deity. While the clerics of a particular religion are united in their | 
reverence for their deity, each cleric emphasizes different aspects | 
of the deity’s interests. You can select an alignment domain. 
(Chaos, Evil, Good, or Law) for your cleric only if his alignment | 
matches that domain. 

If your cleric is not devoted to a particular deity, you still select | 
two domains to represent his spiritual inclinations and abilities. 
The restriction on alignment domains still applies. 

Each domain gives your cleric access to a domain spell at each 
spell level he can cast, from 1st on up, as well as a granted power. 
Your cleric gets the granted powers of both the domains selected. 
With access to two domain spells at a given spell level, a cleric pre- 
pares one or the other each day in his domain spell slot. If a 
domain spell is not on the cleric spell list (page 183), a cleric can 
prepare it only in his domain spell slot. Domain spells and granted 
powers are given in Cleric Domains, pages 185-189. 

For example, Jozan is a 1st-level cleric of Pelor. He chooses Good 
and Healing (from Pelor’s domain options) as his two domains. He 
gets the granted powers of both his selected domains. The Good 
domain allows him to cast all spells with the good descriptor at +1 
caster level (as if he were one level higher as a cleric) as a granted 
power, and it gives him access to protection from evil as a 1st-level 
domain spell. The Healing domain allows him to cast all healing 
subschool spells of the conjuration school at +1 caster level as a 
granted power, and it gives him access to cure light wounds as a 1st- 
level domain spell. When Jozan prepares his spells, he gets one 
ist-level spell for being a 1st-level cleric, one bonus 1st-level spell 
for having a high Wisdom score (15), and one 1st-level domain 
spell. The domain spell must be one of the two to which he has | 
access, either protection from evil or cure light wounds. 

Spontaneous Casting: A good cleric (or a neutral cleric of a, al 
good deity) can channel stored spell energy into healing spells] 


that the cleric did not prepare ahead of time. The cleric can “lose” | 


any prepared spell that is not a domain spell in order to cast any | 
cure spell of the same spell level or lower (a cure spell is any spell | 


with “cure” in its name). For example, a good cleric who has pre- 
| pared command (a 1st-level spell) may lose command in order to 
‘cast cure light wounds (also a 1st-level spell). Clerics of good 


deities can cast cure spells in this way because they are especially 


proficient at wielding positive energy. 

An evil cleric (or a neutral cleric of an evil deity), on the other 
hand, can't convert prepared spells to cure spells but can convert 
them to inflict spells (an inflict spell is one with “inflict” in its name). 
Such clerics are especially proficient at wielding negative energy., 

A cleric who is neither good nor evil and whose deity is neither į 

_good nor evil can convert spells to either cure spells or inflict spells | 
\(player’s choice), depending on whether the cleric is more profi- | 
\cient at wielding positive or negative energy. Once the player) 
umakes this choice, it cannot be reversed. This choice also deter-_ 
| mines whether the cleric turns or commands undead (see below). | 
| Exceptions: All lawful neutral clerics of Wee Jas (goddess of death 
„and magic) convert prepared spells to inflict spells, not cure spells. 
All clerics of St. Cuthbert (god of retribution) and all nonevil cler- 
ics of Obad-Hai (god of nature) convert prepared spells to cure 
spells, not inflict spells. 

Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells: A cleric can't cast 
spells of an alignment opposed to his own or his deity’s (if he has | 
Lone). For example, a good cleric (or a neutral cleric of a good deity) | 

cannot cast evil spells. Spells associated with particular align- 
ments are indicated by the chaos, evil, good, and law descriptors in | 
their spell descriptions (see Chapter 11: Spells). 

Turn or Rebuke Undead (Su): Any cleric, regardless of align- 
ment, has the power to affect undead creatures (such as skeletons, 
zombies, ghosts, and vampires) by channeling the power of his 
faith through his holy (or unholy) symbol (see Turn or Rebuke 

Undead, page 159). 

__A good cleric (or a neutral cleric who worships a good deity) 
lcan turn or destroy undead creatures. An evil cleric (or a neutral 
‘cleric who worships an evil deity) instead rebukes or commands 
such creatures, forcing them to cower in awe of his power. If 
your character is a neutral cleric of a neutral deity, you must 
choose whether his turning ability functions as that of a good 
cleric or an evil cleric. Once you make this choice, it cannot be 
reversed. This decision also determines whether the cleric can 
cast spontaneous cure or inflict spells (see above). EEA All 


rebuke or command undead. All clerics of St. POERA (god of. 


retribution) and all nonevil clerics of Obad-Hai (god of nature) | 
turn or destroy undead. e 


A cleric may attempt to turn undead a number of times per day i 
equal to 3 + his Charisma modifier. A cleric with 5 or more ranks 
in Knowledge (religion) gets a +2 bonus on turning checks against 
undead. = 

Bonus Languages: A cleric’s bonus language options include 
Celestial, Abyssal, and Infernal (the languages of good, chaotic 
evil, and lawful evil outsiders, respectively). These choices are in 

„addition to the bonus languages available to the character because 
lof his race (see Race and Languages, page 12, and the Speak Lan- 
_guage skill, page 82). 


Ex-Clerics ——_ 

A cleric who grossly violates the code of conduct required by his 
god (generally by acting in ways opposed to the god’s alignment or 
purposes) loses all spells and class features, except for armor and 
shield proficiencies and proficiency with simple weapons. He 
cannot thereafter gain levels as a cleric of that god until he atones 
(see the atonement spell description, page 201). 


Human Cleric Starting Package _ 
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty —4, speed 20 ft., 
30 Ib.). 
| Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty —2, 10 1b.). 
Weapons: Heavy mace (1d8, crit x2, 8 lb., one-handed, bludgeon- 
_ing). 
Light crossbow (1d8, crit 19-20/%2, range inc. 80 ft., 4 lb., piercing). | 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 3 + Int modifier. | 


Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty. 
Spellcraft 4 Int — | 
Concentration — 4 Con — 4 
Heal 4 Wis — | 
¿Knowledge (religion) — 2 Int — 
| Diplomacy 4 Cha — 
¿Gather Information (cc) 2 Cha — 
Listen (cc) 2 Wis = 


Feat: Scribe Scroll. 
Bonus Feat: Alertness. 
Deity/Domains: Pelor/Good and Healing. 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Case with 10 crossbow bolts. Wooden , 
holy symbol (sun disc of Pelor). Three torches. — 

Gold: 1d4 gp. 


ee 7 


-— - — +4 


`The fury of a storm, the gentle strength of the morning sun, the 


cunning of the fox, the power of the bear—all these and more are_ 
at the druids command. The druid, however, claims no mastery. 
over nature. That claim, she says, is the empty boast of a city 
dweller. The druid gains her power not by ruling nature but by 
being at one with it. To trespassers in a druid’s sacred grove, and to 
those who feel her wrath, the distinction is overly fine. 
Adventures: Druids adventure to gain knowledge (especially | | 


jabout animals and plants unfamiliar to them) and power. Some- |_ 


times their superiors call on their services. Druids may also bring | 
their power to bear against those who threaten what they | love,| 
which more often includes ancient stands of trees or trackless 
mountains than people. While druids accept that which is horrific | 
or cruel in nature, they hate that which is unnatural, including | 
aberrations (such as beholders and carrion crawlers) and undead 
(such as zombies and vampires). Druids sometimes lead raids 
against such creatures, especially when they encroach on the 
druids’ territory. 

Characteristics: Druids cast divine spells much the same way 
clerics do, though most get their spells from the power of nature 
rather than from deities. Their spells are oriented toward nature 
and animals. In addition to spells, druids gain an increasing array 
of magical powers, including the ability to take the shapes of ani- 
mals, as they advance in level. — 

The armor of a druid is restricted by traditional oaths to the 
items noted in Weapon and Armor Proficiency (below). All other 
armor is prohibited. Though a druid could learn to wear full plate, 
putting it on would violate her oath and suppress her druidic 
powers. 

Druids avoid carrying much worked metal with them because 
it interferes with the pure and primal nature that they attempt to 
embody. 

Alignment: Druids, in keeping with nature's ultimate indiffer- 
ence, must maintain at least some measure of dispassion. As such, 
they must be neutral on at least one alignment axis 
(chaotic—lawful or good—evil), if not both. Just as nature encom- 
passes such dichotomies as life and death, beauty and horror, and 
peace and violence, so two druids can manifest different or even | 
opposite alignments (neutral good and neutral evil, for instance) | 
and still be part of the druidic tradition. | 

Religion: A druid reveres nature above all. She gains her magi- ; 


cal powers either from the force of nature itself or from a nature | 


deity. The typical druid pursues a mystic spirituality of transcen-| 
dent union with nature rather than devoting herself to a divine | 


‘entity. Still, some druids revere or at least respect either Obad-Hai | 
| (god of nature) or Ehlonna (goddess of the woodlands). 


Background: Though their organization is invisible to most 
outsiders, who consider druids to be loners, druids are actually 


83 


part of a society that spans the land, ignoring political borders. A 
prospective druid is inducted into this society through secret ritu- 
als involving tests that not all survive. Only after achieving some 
level of competence is the druid allowed to strike out on her own. 

All druids are nominally members of this druidic society, . 
though some individuals are so isolated that they have never seen 
‚any high-ranking members of the society or participated in} 

| druidic gatherings. All druids recognize each other as brothers | 
land sisters. Like true creatures of the wilderness, however, druids] } 
¡sometimes compete with or even prey on each other. 
___A druid may be expected to perform services | 
[for higher-ranking druids, though proper pay- 
_ment is tendered for such assignments. Like- 
wise, a lower-ranking druid may appeal for aid 
from her higher-ranking comrades in 
exchange for a fair price in coin or service. 
_ Druids may live in small towns, but they 
always spend a good portion of their time in _ 
wild areas. Even large cities surrounded by 4n 
[cultivated land as far as the eye can see 
often have druid groves nearby—small, 
wild refuges where druids live and which 
they protect fiercely. Near coastal cities, 
such refuges may be nearby islands, where 
the druids can find the isolation they need. 

Races: Elves and gnomes have 

an affinity for natural lands and gs 
loften become druids. Humans 
land half-elves also frequently 
‘adopt this path, and druids are particu- 
larly common among savage humans. 
| Dwarves, halflings, and half-orcs 
are rarely druids. 
| Few from among the 
‘brutal humanoids are 
inducted into # 
druidic society, 
though gnolls 
have a fair con- 
tingent of evil 
druids among them. 
Gnoll druids are bail 
accepted, though per- ay voj iiti 
haps not welcomed, by_ 
druids of other races. 

Other Classes: The druid shares with rangers and many bar- 
barians a reverence for nature and a familiarity with natural lands. 

She doesn't much understand the urban mannerisms typical of a 

rogue, and she finds arcane magic disruptive and slightly distaste- 

(ful. The typical druid also dislikes the paladin’s devotion to 

_abstract ideals instead of “the real world.” Druids, however, are 
nothing if not accepting of diversity, and they take little offense at 
other characters, even those very different from them. 

Role: The druid enjoys extraordinary versatility. Though she 
lacks the sheer healing power of the cleric, she makes up for it 
with additional offensive power, thanks to her spell selection and 
wild shape ability. A druid backed up by another secondary healer 
(such as a paladin) can prove extremely valuable to a group of 
adventurers. Her animal companion also provides valuable melee 

_combat support. 


AME_RULE INFORMATION 

Druids have the following game statistics. 
| Abilities: Wisdom determines how powerful a spell a druid 
_can cast, how many spells she can cast per day, and how hard those 


T 


Y 
N 
ij 
5 
a 
N 


score of 10 + the spell’s level. A druid gets bonus spells based on | 


34y 


1 


spells are to resist. To cast a spell, a druid must have a Wisdom | 


Wisdom. The Difficulty Class of a saving throw against a druid’s, 
spell is 10 + the spell’s level + the druid’s Wisdom modifier. | 
Since a druid wears only light or medium armor, a high Dex- | 
terity score greatly improves her defensive ability. z 
__ Alignment: Neutral good, lawful neutral, neutral, chaotic neu- 
_ tral, or neutral evil. 
Hit Die: ds. 


Class Skills 
The druid’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Con-| 
centration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy | 
) (Cha), Handle Animal (Cha), 
Heal (Wis), Knowledge (nature) 
i (Int), Listen (Wis), Profession , 
(Wis), Ride (Dex), Spellcraft. 
(Int), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), and Swim 
` (Str). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (4 + Int modi-| i 
fier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: , 
4 + Int modifier. = 


Class Features _—— 
All of the following are class features of the 
druid. = n 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: | 
Druids are proficient with the follow- | 
ing weapons: club, dagger, dart, | 
quarterstaff, scimitar, sickle, short- | 
spear, sling, and spear. They are | 


also proficient with all natural | 

~y attacks (claw, bite, and so. 
forth) of any form they assume 
with wild shape (see below). 
} Druids are proficient with light and 
w medium armor but are prohibited from 
wearing metal armor; thus, they may wear 
only padded, leather, or hide armor. (A druid 
may also wear wooden armor that has 
J been altered by the ironwood spell so that 
_it functions as though it were steel. 
See the ironwood spell description, 
page 246.) Druids are proficient with 
shields (except tower shields) but must use only 

wooden ones. 

A druid who wears prohibited armor or carries a prohibited 
shield is unable to cast druid spells or use any of her supernatural 
or spell-like class abilities while doing so and for 24 hours there- 
after. 

Spells: A druid casts divine spells (the same type of spells avail- 
able to the cleric, paladin, and ranger), which are drawn from the 
druid spell list (page 189). Her alignment may restrict her from 
casting certain spells opposed to her moral or ethical beliefs; see 
Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells, below. A druid must 
choose and prepare her spells in advance (see below). 

To prepare or cast a spell, the druid must have a Wisdom score | 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 10 for 0-level spells, Wis | 
11 for ist-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a | 
saving throw against a druid’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the} 

_druid’s Wisdom modifier. pe ae 

Like other spellcasters, a druid can cast only ; a certain Sabe | 
_of spells of each spell level per day. Her base daily spell allotment | 
lis given on Table 3-8: The Druid. In addition, she receives bonus 

| spells per day if she has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1—1: Abil- 
lity Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). She does not have access 
to any domain spells or granted powers, as a cleric does. 


TABLE 3—8: THE DRUID 


Spells per Day 


0 Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 


DDNDDDADADUUGVUAA A 
auna RR RWWWNDND 
ORR RRWWWNHDN 
es [Rw [ow [Sp |S 
RWWWDNYD — 
Oy S| Se 
NN | 

| 

| 


Base Fort Ref Will 

Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 

Ist +0 2 +0 +2 Animal companion, 

nature sense, wild empathy 

2nd. +1 +3 +0 +3 Woodland stride 

3rd +2 +3 +1 +3 Trackless step 

4th +3 +4 +] +4 Resist nature’s lure 

5th +3 +4 +1 +4 Wild shape (1/day) 

6th +4 +5 +2 +5 Wild shape (2/day) 

7th +5 +5 +2 +5 Wild shape (3/day) 
| 8th +6/+1 +6 +2 +6 Wild shape (Large) 

9th = +6/+1 +6 +3 +6 Venom immunity 
10th +7/+2 +7 +3 +7 — Wild shape (4/day) 
11th +8/+3 +7 +3 +7 Wild shape (Tiny) 
12th +9/+4 +8 +4 +8 Wild shape (plant) 
13th +9/+4 +8 +4 +8 A thousand faces 
14th +10/+5 +9 +4 +9 Wild shape (5/day) 
15th  +11/+6/+1 +9 +5 +9 Timeless body, 

wild shape (Huge) 

16th +12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +10 Wild shape 


(elemental 1/day) 


17th +12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +10 

18th +13/+8/+3 +11 +6 +11 Wild shape (6/day, 
elemental 2/day) 

19th +14/+9/+4 +11 +6 +11 

20th +15/+10/+5 +12 +6 +12 Wild shape (elemental 


3/day, Huge elemental) 


A druid prepares and casts spells the waya cleric does, though 
she cannot lose a prepared spell to cast a cure spell in its place (but 
see Spontaneous Casting, below). A druid may prepare and cast 
_any spell on the druid spell list (page 189), provided that she can 
\cast spells of that level, but she must choose which spells to pre- 

pare during her daily meditation. 

Spontaneous Casting: A druid can channel stored spell energy 
into summoning spells that she hasn't prepared ahead of time. She 
can “lose” a prepared spell in order to cast any summon nature's ally. 
spell of the same level or lower. For example, a druid who has pre- | 
pared repel vermin (a 4th-level spell) may lose repel vermin in order to | 
cast summon nature's ally IV (also a 4th-level spell). | 

Chaotic, Evil, Good, and Lawful Spells: A druid can't cast 
spells of an alignment opposed to her own or her deity’s (if she has 
one). For example, a neutral good druid cannot cast evil spells. 
Spells associated with particular alignments are indicated by the 
chaos, evil, good, and law descriptors in their spell descriptions 
(see Chapter 11: Spells). 

Bonus Languages: A druid’s bonus language options include 
| Sylvan, the language of woodland creatures. This choice is in addi- 
ition to the bonus languages available to the character because of 

her race (see Race and Languages, page 12, and the Speak Lan- 
guage skill, page 82). 

A druid also knows Druidic, a secret language known only to 
druids, which she learns upon becoming a 1st-level druid. Druidic 
is a free language for a druid; that is, she knows it in addition to her 
regular allotment of languages and it doesn't take up a language 
slot. Druids are forbidden to teach this language to nondruids. 
Druidic has its own alphabet. 

Animal Companion (Ex): A druid may begin play with an 
_animal companion selected from the following list: badger, 
camel, dire rat, dog, riding dog, eagle, hawk, horse (light or 
heavy), owl, pony, snake (Small or Medium viper), or wolf. If the 
DM's campaign takes place wholly or partly in an aquatic envi- 
_ronment, the DM may add the following creatures to the druid’s 

list of options: porpoise, Medium shark, and squid. This animal is 
a loyal companion that accompanies the druid on her adventures | 
as appropriate for its kind. 


A 1st-level druid’s companion is completely typical for its kind| 
except as noted in the sidebar on page 36. As a druid advances in level, | 
the animal’s power increases as shown on the table in the sidebar. | 

If a druid releases her companion from service, she may gain a| 
new one by performing a ceremony requiring 24 uninterrupted 
hours of prayer. This ceremony can also replace an animal com- 
panion that has perished. 

A druid of 4th level or higher may select from alternative lists of 
animals (see the sidebar). Should she select an animal companion 
from one of these alternative lists, the creature gains abilities as if 
the character's druid level were lower than it actually is. Subtract 
the value indicated in the appropriate list header from the charac- 
ter’s druid level and compare the result with the druid level entry 
on the table in the sidebar to determine the animal companion’s 
powers. (If this adjustment would reduce the druid’s effective 
level to 0 or lower, she can't have that animal as a companion.) For 
example, a 6th-level druid could select a leopard as an animal com- 
panion. The leopard would have characteristics and special abili- 
ties as if the druid were 3rd level (taking into account the —3 
adjustment) instead of 6th level. 

Nature Sense (Ex): A druid gains a +2 bonus on Knowledge 
(nature) and Survival checks. 

Wild Empathy (Ex): A druid can use body language, vocaliza- 
tions, and demeanor to improve the attitude of an animal (such as 
a bear or a monitor lizard). This ability functions just like a Diplo- 
macy check made to improve the attitude of a person (see Chapter 
4: Skills). The druid rolls 1d20 and adds her druid level and her 
Charisma modifier to determine the wild empathy check result. | 
The typical domestic animal has a starting attitude of indifferent, | 
while wild animals are usually unfriendly. 

To use wild empathy, the druid and the animal must be able to! | 


_study each other, which means that they must be within 30 feet of | 


one another under normal conditions. Generally, influencing an | 
animal in this way takes 1 minute but, as with influencing people, | 


lit might take more or less time. 


A druid can also use this ability to influence a magical beast 


with an Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (such as a basilisk or a girallon), 


but she takes a —4 penalty on the check. 


85 


Woodland Stride (Ex): Starting at 2nd level, a druid may 
move through any sort of undergrowth (such as natural 
thorns, briars, overgrown areas, and similar terrain) at her 
normal speed and without taking damage or suffering any 
other impairment. However, thorns, briars, and overgrown _ 


areas that have been magically manipulated to impede motion , 
still affect her. | 
Trackless Step (Ex): Starting at 3rd level, a druid leaves no | 
trail in natural surroundings and cannot be tracked. She may 
choose to leave a trail if so desired. 


THE DRUID’S ANIMAL COMPANION 
A druid’s animal companion is superior to a normal animal of its kind 
and has special powers, as described below. 


Class Bonus Natural Str/Dex Bonus 

Level HD Armor Adj. Adj. Tricks Special 

Ist-2nd +0 +0 +0 1 Link, share spells 
3rd—Sth +2 +2 +] 2 Evasion 

6th-8th +4 +4 +2 3 Devotion 
9th-11th +6 +6 +3 4 Multiattack 
12th-14th +8 +8 +4 5 

15th-17th +10 +10 +5 6 Improved evasion 
18th-20th +12 +12 +6 7 


Animal Companion Basics: Use the base statistics for a creature of the 
companion’s kind, as given in the Monster Manual, but make the 
following changes. 

Class Level: The character’s druid level. The druid’s class levels stack 
with levels of any other classes that are entitled to an animal compan- 
ion (such as the ranger) for the purpose of determining the compan- 
ion’s abilities and the alternative lists available to the character. 

Bonus HD: Extra eight-sided (d8) Hit Dice, each of which gains a 
Constitution modifier, as normal. Remember that extra Hit Dice 
improve the animal companion’s base attack and base save bonuses. 
An animal companion’s base attack bonus is the same as that of a 
druid of a level equal to the animal’s HD. An animal companion has 
good Fortitude and Reflex saves (treat it as a character whose level 
equals the animal’s HD). An animal companion gains additional skill 
points and feats for bonus HD as normal for advancing a monster’s 
Hit Dice (see the Monster Manual). 

Natural Armor Adj.: The number noted here is an improvement to 
the animal companion’s existing natural armor bonus. 

Str/Dex Adj.: Add this value to the animal companion’s Strength and 
Dexterity scores. 

Bonus Tricks: The value given in this column is the total number of 
“bonus” tricks that the animal knows in addition to any that the druid 
might choose to teach it (see the Handle Animal skill, page 74). These 
bonus tricks don’t require any training time or Handle Animal checks, 
and they don’t count against the normal limit of tricks known by the 
animal. The druid selects these bonus tricks, and once selected, they 
can’t be changed. 

Link (Ex): A druid can handle her animal companion as a free action, 
or push it as a move action, even if she doesn’t have any ranks in the 
Handle Animal skill. The druid gains a +4 circumstance bonus on all wild 
empathy checks and Handle Animal checks made regarding an animal 
companion. 

Share Spells (Ex): At the druid’s option, she may have any spell (but 
not any spell-like ability) she casts upon herself also affect her animal 
companion. The animal companion must be within 5 feet of her at 
the time of casting to receive the benefit. If the spell or effect has a 
duration other than instantaneous, it stops affecting the animal 
companion if the companion moves farther than 5 feet away and will 
not affect the animal again, even if it returns to the druid before the 
duration expires. Additionally, the druid may cast a spell with a target 
of “You” on her animal companion (as a touch range spell) instead 
of on herself. A druid and her animal companion can share spells 
even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of the companion’s 
type (animal). 


Evasion (Ex): lf an animal companion is subjected to an attack that 
normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it takes no 
damage if it makes a successful saving throw. 

Devotion (Ex): An animal companion’s devotion to its master is so 
complete that it gains a +4 morale bonus on Will saves against 
enchantment spells and effects. 

Multiattack: An animal companion gains Multiattack as a bonus feat 
if it has three or more natural attacks (see the Monster Manual for 
details on this feat) and does not already have that feat. If it does not 
have the requisite three or more natural attacks, the animal compan- 
ion instead gains a second attack with its primary natural weapon, 
albeit at a -5 penalty. 

Improved Evasion (Ex): When subjected to an attack that normally 
allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, an animal companion 
takes no damage if it makes a successful saving throw and only half 
damage if the saving throw fails. 


ALTERNATIVE ANIMAL COMPANIONS 

As explained in the text on page 35, a druid of sufficiently high level can 
select her animal companion from one of the following lists, applying 
the indicated adjustment to the druid’s level (in parentheses) for 
purposes of determining the companion’s characteristics and special 
abilities. 


4th Level or Higher (Level -3) 
Ape (animal) 

Bear, black (animal) 

Bison (animal) 

Boar (animal) 

Cheetah (animal) 

Crocodile (animal)! 

Dire badger 

Dire bat 


Dire weasel 

Leopard (animal) 

Lizard, monitor (animal) 
Shark, Large’ (animal) 
Snake, constrictor (animal) 
Snake, Large viper (animal) 
Wolverine (animal) 


7th Level or Higher (Level —6) 
Bear, brown (animal) 
Crocodile, giant (animal) 
Deinonychus (dinosaur) 


Dire wolverine 
Elasmosaurus’ (dinosaur) 
Lion (animal) 


Dire ape Rhinoceros (animal) 
Dire boar Snake, Huge viper (animal) 
Dire wolf Tiger (animal) 


10th Level or Higher (Level —9) 
Bear, polar (animal) 

Dire lion 

Megaraptor (dinosaur) 


Shark, Huge’ (animal) 
Snake, giant constrictor (animal) 
Whale, orca! (animal) 


13th Level or Higher (Level -12) 
Dire bear 
Octopus, giant! (animal) 


Elephant (animal) 


16th Level or Higher (Level -15) 
Dire shark! 

Dire tiger 

Squid, giant! (animal) 


Triceratops (dinosaur) 
Tyrannosaurus (dinosaur) 


1 Available only in an aquatic environment. 


Resist Nature’s Lure (Ex): Starting at 4th level, a druid gains a 
+4 bonus on saving throws against the spell-like abilities of fey 
(such as dryads, pixies, and sprites). 

Wild Shape (Su): At 5th level, a druid gains the ability to assume 
the form of any Small or Medium creature of the animal type (see 
Monster Manual) and change back again to natural form once per day. 
The assumed form must be that of an animal the druid has seen or 
could know about. 

This ability is an alternate form (Monster Manual, page 305), except as 
noted here. Changing to an assumed form or back to natural form is a 
standard action that provokes no attacks of opportunity. The effect lasts 
for 1 hour per druid level or until the druid changes back. The assumed 
forms Hit Dice cannot exceed the character's druid level. Each time a 
druid uses wild shape, she regains 1 hit point per Hit Die. 

A druid cannot speak while in animal form because she is limited 
to the sounds an untrained animal can make. She can communicate 
with other animals of the same general grouping as her animal form. 
Any gear worn or carried by the druid melds into the assumed form 
and becomes nonfunctional. When the druid reverts to natural 
form, any objects previously melded into the assumed form reap- 
pear in the same location on her body that they previously occupied 
and are once again functional. Any new items worn in the assumed 
form fall off and land in the druid’s space. 

A druid can use this ability more times per day at 6th, 7th, 10th, 
14th, and 18th level as noted on Table 3-8: The Druid. In addition, 
the druid can assume the form of a Large animal at 8th level, a Tiny 
animal at 11th level, and a Huge animal at 15th level. 

At 12th level, a druid can assume the form of any creature of the 
plant type (see Monster Manual), with the same size restrictions as 
for animal forms. 

At 16th level, a druid can assume the form ofa Small, Medium, 
or Large air, earth, fire, or water elemental once per day. This 
usage is in addition to normal wild shape usage. In addition 
to normal wild shape effects, the druid gains all the ele- 
mental’s extraordinary, supernatural, and spell-like 
abilities, as well as feats, for as long as she stays in 
that elemental form. 

At 18th level, a druid can assume elemental form 
twice per day, and at 20th level she can do so three 
times per day. At 20th level, a druid can assume the 
form of a Huge elemental. 

Venom Immunity (Ex): At 9th level, a druid 
gains immunity to all poisons. 

A Thousand Faces (Su): At 13th level, 
a druid in her natural form can change the 
appearance of her body (but not her posses- 
sions) at will, as ifusing the disguise self spell 
(see page 222). These changes are not an 
illusion. 

Timeless Body (Ex): After attaining 15th 
level, a druid no longer takes ability score 
penalties for aging (see Table 
6-5: Aging Effects, page 109) and 
cannot be magically aged. Any pen- 
alties she may have already incurred, 
however, remain in place. Bonuses 
still accrue, and the druid still 
dies of old age when her time 
is up. 


Ex-Druids 
A druid who ceases to revere nature, changes to a prohibited align- 
ment, or teaches the Druidic language to a nondruid loses all spells 
and druid abilities (including her animal companion, but not includ- 
ing weapon, armor, and shield proficiencies). She cannot thereafter 
gain levels as a druid until she atones (see the atonement spell descrip- 
tion, page 201). 


eR wee von 
ary es T 2 pate ae OA iin a ese 
E A H E TN N ` $ DE oa sige he 8 


Half-Elf Druid Starting Package 


Armor: Hide (+3 AC, armor check penalty —3, speed 20 ft., 25 
Ib.). 

Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty —2, 10 lb.). 

Weapons: Scimitar (1d6, crit 18-20/x2, 4 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 

Club (oaken cudgel): (1d6, crit x2, 10 ft., 3 1b., one-handed, 
bludgeoning). 

Sling (1d4, crit x2, range inc. 50 ft., 0 1b., Medium, bludgeoning). 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 4 + Int modi- 
fier. 


Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check 
Penalty 

Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con = 
Survival 4 Wis — 

Heal 4 Wis — 
Handle Animal 4 Cha — 
Knowledge (nature) 4 Int — 
Listen 4 Wis = 

Spot 4 Wis = 


Feat: Scribe Scroll. 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Pouch with 10 sling bullets. Holly and 
mistletoe. Three torches. 

Animal Companion: Wolf (see the 
Monster Manual for details). 

Gold: 1d6 gp. 


—— FIGHTER 


The questing knight, the conquer- 
a A ing overlord, the king’s champion, 
* the elite foot soldier, the hardened 
-\ mercenary, and the bandit king— 
(A all are fighters. Fighters can be 
\ stalwart defenders of those in 
{À need, cruel marauders, or gutsy 
adventurers. Some are among 
the land's best souls, willing 
to face death for the greater 
good. Others are among the 
worst, with no qualms about 
killing for private gain, or even 
for sport. Fighters who are not 
actively adventuring may be sol- 
diers, guards, bodyguards, cham- 
pions, or criminal enforcers. An 
adventuring fighter might call 
himself a warrior, a mercenary, a 

= thug, or simply an adventurer. 
Adventures: Most fighters see adven- 
tures, raids, and dangerous missions as their 
jobs. Some have patrons who pay them 
regularly. Others prefer to live like pros- 
pectors, taking great risks in hopes of 
the big haul. Some fighters are more 
civic-minded and use their combat skills 
to protect endangered people who cannot 
defend themselves. Whatever their initial motivations, how- 
ever, fighters often wind up living for the thrill of combat and 

adventure. 

Characteristics: Of all the classes, the fighter has the best all- 
around fighting capabilities (hence the name). Fighters are 
familiar with all the standard weapons and armors. In addition to 


3 

S 
È 
Š 
z 
5 
» 
$ 
= 
8 


general fighting prowess, each fighter develops particular spe- 
cialties of his own. A given fighter may be especially capable 
with certain weapons; another might be trained to execute spe- 
cific fancy maneuvers. As fighters gain experience, they get 
more opportunities to develop their fighting skills. Thanks to 
their focus on combat maneuvers, they can master the most dif- 
ficult ones relatively quickly. 

Alignment: Fighters may be of any alignment. Good fighters are 
often crusading types who seek out and fight evil. Lawful fighters may 
be champions who protect the land and its people. Chaotic fighters 
may be wandering mercenaries. Evil fighters tend to be bullies 
and petty villains who simply take what they want by brute force. 

Religion: Fighters often worship Heironeous caer of 
valor), Kord (god of strength), St. Cuthbert (god of ret- 


of slaughter). A fighter may style himself as a cru- 
sader in the service of his god, or he may just 
want someone to pray to before putting his life 
on the line yet another time. 

Background: Fighters come to their 
profession in many ways. Most have had 
formal training in a noble’s army or at 
least in the local militia. Some have 
trained in formal academies. Others are 
self-taught—unpolished but well 
tested. A fighter may have taken 
up the sword as a @ 
way to escape the 
limits of life on the farm, 
or he may be following a 
proud family tradition. Fighters 
share no special identity. They do 
not see themselves as a group or © 
brotherhood. Those who hail from a 
particular academy, mercenary company, 
or lord's regiment, however, share a certain 
camaraderie. 

Races: Human fighters are usually veterans of 
some military service, typically from munda 
parents. Dwarf fighters are commonly forme 
members of the well-trained strike teams that 
tect the underground dwarven kingdom 
are typically members of warrior families tl 
trace their lineages back for millennia, and they 
may have rivalries or alliances with other dwarf 
fighters of a different lineage. Elf fighters are typi- 
cally skilled with the longsword. They are proud 
of their ability at swordplay and_eager to 
demonstrate or test it. Half-orc fighters 
are often self-taught outcasts who have ~ 
achieved enough skill to earn recognition 
and something akin to respect. Gnome and half- 
ling fighters usually stay in their own communities as part of the area 
militia rather than adventuring. Half-elves are rarely fighters, but 
they may take up swordplay in honor of the elven tradition. 

Among the brutal humanoids, few can manage the discipline it 
takes to be a true fighter. The militaristic hobgoblins, however, 
produce quite a number of strong and skilled fighters. 

Other Classes: The fighter excels in a straight fight, but he 
relies on others for magical support, healing, and scouting. On a 
team, it is his job to man the front lines, protect the other party 
members, and bring the tough opponents down. Fighters might 
not understand the arcane ways of wizards or share the faith of 
clerics, but they recognize the value of teamwork. 

Role: In most adventuring parties, the fighter serves as a melee 
combatant, charging into the fray while his comrades support him 
with spells, ranged attacks, and other effects. Fighters who favor 


ranged combat can prove very deadly, though without other melee 
support, they can find themselves in front-line combat more often 
than they might prefer. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


Fighters have the following game statistics. 

Abilities: Strength is especially important for fighters because 
it improves their melee attack and damage rolls. Constitution is 
important for giving fighters lots of hit points, which they need in 

their many battles. Dexterity is important for fighters who want 
to be good archers or who want access to certain Dexterity-ori- 

ented feats, but the heavy 
armor that fighters usu- 
Regdar f ally wear reduces the ben- 
efit of a very high Dexterity 
score. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d10. 


Class Skills 
The fighter’s class skills (and 
the key ability for each skill) are 
Climb (Str), Craft (Int), Handle 
Animal (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), 
Jump (Str), Ride (Dex), and Swim 
(Str). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill 
descriptions. 
; Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int 
“I< sf 
aes modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional 
Level: 2 + Int modifier. 


/ 


Class Features 
All of the following are class features of the 
fighter. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
fighter is proficient with all simple and mar- 
tial weapons and with all armor (heavy, 
medium, and light) and shields (including tower 
shields). 

Bonus Feats: At 1st level, a fighter gets a bonus 
combat-oriented feat in addition to the feat that 
any 1st-level character gets and the bonus 
feat granted to a human character. The 
fighter gains an additional bonus feat 
at 2nd level and every two fighter 
levels thereafter (4th, 6th, 8th, 
~ 10th, 12th, 14th, 16th, 18th, and 

20th). These bonus feats must be drawn from the 

feats noted as fighter bonus feats on Table 5-1: 

Feats (page 90). A fighter must still meet all pre- 
requisites for a bonus feat, including ability score and base 
attack bonus minimums. (See Chapter 5: Feats for descriptions 
of feats and their prerequisites.) 

These bonus feats are in addition to the feat that a character of 
any class gets every three levels (see Table 3-2: Experience and 
Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). A fighter is not limited to the 
list of fighter bonus feats when choosing these feats. 


~ 


Dwarf Fighter Starting Package 


Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty —4, speed 20 ft., 
30 lb.). 

Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty —2, 10 1b.) 

Weapons: Dwarven waraxe (1d10, crit x3, 8 lb., one-handed, 
slashing). 

Shortbow (1d6, crit x3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 1b., piercing). 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 2 + Int modifier. 


TABLE 3—9: THE FIGHTER f | | 
Base Fort Ref Will MONKI 


Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special Dotted across the landscape are monasteries—small, walled clois- | 
Ist +1 T2 +0 +0 Bonus feat ters inhabited by monks who pursue personal perfection through | 
2nd +2 _ +3 +0 +0 Bonus feat} action as well as contemplation. They train themselves to be versa- 
3rd +3 +3 +1 +1 ¿ tile warriors skilled at fighting without weapons or armor. The 

_ 4th +4 +4 +] +] Bonus feat, inhabitants of monasteries headed by good masters serve as pro- 

| Sth +5 +4 +1 +1 | tectors of the people. Ready for battle even when barefoot and 

| 6th +6/+1 +5 +2 +2 Bonus feat} dressed in peasant clothes, monks can travel unnoticed among the , 

| 7th +7/4+2 +5 +2 42 L populace, catching bandits, warlords, and corrupt nobles | 
8th +8/+3 +6 — +2 +2 Bonus feat | l unawares. In contrast, the residents of monasteries headed by evil. 
| 9th +9/+4 +6 +3 +3 masters rule the surrounding lands through fear, as an evil war- 

“loth +10/+5 +7 +3 +3 Bonus feat lord and his entourage might. Evil monks make ideal spies, infil- 

11th +11/+6/+1 A ar) 463) trators, and assassins. 

12th +12/+7/+2 +8 +4 +4 Bonus feat An individual monk is unlikely to care passionately about., 

13th +13/+8/+3 +8 +4 +4 championing commoners or amassing wealth. She cares primarily 

14th +14/+9/+4 49 +4 +4 Bonus feat _for the perfection of her art and, thereby, her personal perfection. 

15th +15/+10/+5 +9 +5 45) |. {Her goal is to achieve a state that is beyond the mortal realm. , 

16th +16/+11/+6/+1 +10 +5 +5 Bonus feat _} Adventures: A monk approaches an adventure as if it were a, 

17th +17/+12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +5 | personal test. While not prone to showing off, monks are willing 

18th +18/+13/+8/+3 +11 +6 +6 Bonus feat | to try their skills against whatever obstacles confront them. They , 

19th +19/+14/+9/+4 +11 +6 +6 are not greedy for material wealth, but they eagerly seek that. 

20th +20/+15/+10/+5 +12 +6 +6 Bonus feat which can help them perfect their art. 
Characteristics: The key feature of the monk is her ability to 

Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty fight unarmed and unarmored. Thanks to her rigorous training, 

Climb 4 Str -6 she can strike as hard as if she were armed and strike faster than a 

Jump 4 Str -6 warrior with a sword. 

| Ride 4 Dex — __ Though a monk casts no spells, she channels a subtle energy, 

| Swim 4 Str -12 called ki, which allows her to perform amazing feats. The monk’s 

| Intimidate 4 Cha — best-known feat is her ability to stun an opponent with an| 

ĻListen (cc) 2 Wis f — unarmed blow. A monk also has a preternatural awareness that} 

|Search (cc) 2 Int = allows her to dodge an attack even if she is not consciously aware | 

Spot (cc) 2 Wis — ofit. 

As a monk gains experience and power, her mundane and ki! 
Feat: Weapon Focus (dwarven waraxe). oriented abilities grow, giving her more and more power over her- 
Bonus Feat (Fighter): If Strength is 13 or higher, Power Attack; self and, sometimes, over others. 
if Strength is 12 or lower, Improved Initiative instead. _ | Alignment: A monk's training requires strict discipline. Only 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll,.. those who are lawful at heart are capable of undertaking it. 
sack, flint and steel, quiver with 20 arrows. | Religion: A monk's training is her spiritual path. She is inner- 
Gold: 4d4 gp. | directed and capable of a private, mystic connection to the spiritual 
| world, so she needs neither clerics nor gods. Certain lawful gods, 
Human Fighter Starting Package however, may appeal to monks, who may meditate on those gods’ 
Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty —4, speed 20 ft., likenesses and attempt to emulate their deeds. The three most likely 
30 lb.). candidates for a monk’s devotion are Heironeous (god of valor), St. 
Weapons: Greatsword (2d6, crit 19-20/x2, 8 Ib., two-handed, Cuthbert (god of retribution), and Hextor (god of tyranny). 
slashing). Background: A monk typically trains in a monastery. Most 
Shortbow (1d6, crit x3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 lb., piercing). monks were children when they joined the monastery, sent to live 
Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 3 + Int modifier. there when their parents died, when there wasn't enough food to 
| support them, or in return for some kindness that the monastery 

Skill Ranks _ Ability Armor Check Penalty had performed for the family. Life in the monastery is so focused 

{Climb 4 Str —4 that by the time a monk sets off on her own, she feels little con- 

Jump 4 Str —4 nection to her former family or village. 

Ride 4 Dex — In larger cities, master monks have set up monk schools to 

Swim 4 Str -8 teach their arts to those who are interested and worthy. The monks 
Intimidate 4 Cha — who study at these academies often see their rural cousins from 
Listen (cc) 2 Wis — the monasteries as backward. 

Search (cc) 2 Int = A monk may feel a deep connection to her monastery or school, , 

Spot (cc) 2 Wis — to the monk who taught her, to the lineage into which she was , 

7 ; trained, or to all of these. Some monks, however, have no sense of | 
Feat: Weapon Focus (greatsword). connection other than to their own path of personal development. | 
__ Bonus Feat (Fighter): If Strength is 13 or r higher, Power | Monks recognize each other as a select group set apart from the | 
Attack; if Strength is 12 or lower, Improved Initiative instead. rest of the populace. They may feel kinship, but they also love to + 
| Bonus Feat (Human): Blind-Fight. compete with each other to see whose ki is strongest. 
| Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, |__ Races: Monasteries are found primarily among humans, whe | 
sack, flint and steel, quiver with twenty arrows. |have incorporated them into their ever-evolving culture. Thus, 
Gold: 2d4 gp. |. {many monks are humans, and many more are half-orcs and half- 


elves who live among humans. Elves are capable of single-minded, 


long-term devotion to an interest, art, or discipline, and some of 
them leave the forests to become monks. The monk tradition is 
alien to dwarf and gnome culture, and halflings typically have too 
mobile a lifestyle to commit themselves to a monastery, so 
dwarves, gnomes, and halflings very rarely become monks. 
The savage humanoids do not have the stable social structure that | 
‚allows monk training, but the occasional orphaned or abandoned | 
\child from some humanoid tribe winds up in a civilized monastery | 
Lor is adopted by a wandering master. The evil subterranean elves | 
[known as the drow have a small but successful monk tradition. | 
Other Classes: Monks sometimes seem distant because they! 
loften have neither motivation nor skills in common with members 
‚of other classes. Monks do, however, work well with the support of 
others, and they usually prove themselves reliable companions. 
Role: The monk functions best as an opportunistic combatant, 
using her speed to get into and out of combat quickly rather than 
engaging in prolonged melees. She also makes an excellent scout, 


„particularly if she focuses her skill selection on stealth. { 


GAME RULE INFORMATION | 
‘Monks have the following game statistics. 

Abilities: Wisdom powers the monk's special offensive and 
defensive capabilities. Dexterity provides an unarmored monk 
with a better defense and with bonuses to some class skills. 
Strength helps a monk’s unarmed combat ability. 

Alignment: Any lawful. 

Hit Die: d8. 


Class Skills 
{The monk's class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Balance 
(Dex), Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy 
(Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge 
(arcana) (Int), Knowledge (religion) (Int), Listen (Wis), Move 
Silently (Dex), Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis), Sense Motive 
(Wis), Spot (Wis), Swim (Str), and Tumble (Dex). See Chapter 4: 
Skills for skill descriptions. 

Skill Points at 1st Level: (4 + Int modifier) x 4. — 

Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 4 + Int modifier. 


TABLE 3—10: THE MONK 


Class Features 


All of the following are class features of the monk. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Monks are proficient with | 
certain basic peasant weapons and some special weapons that are | 
[part of monk training. The weapons with which a monk is profi- 
i cient are club, crossbow (light or heavy), dagger, handaxe, javelin, 
\kama, nunchaku, quarterstaff, sai, shuriken, siangham, and sling. 
Monks are not proficient with any armor or shields—in fact, 
many of the monk's special powers require unfettered movement. , 
When wearing armor, using a shield, or carrying a medium or. 
[heavy load, a monk loses her AC bonus, as well as her fast move- | 
ment and flurry of blows abilities. 

AC Bonus (Ex): A monk is highly trained at dodging blows, 
and she has a sixth sense that lets her avoid even unanticipated , 
attacks. When unarmored and unencumbered, the monk adds. 
her Wisdom bonus (if any) to her AC. In addition, a monk gains 

.a+1 bonus to AC at Sth level. This bonus increases by 4 for every 
_five monk levels thereafter (+2 at 10th, +3 at 15th, and +4 at 20th. 
level). 

These bonuses to AC apply even against touch attacks or when | 
the monk is flat-footed. She loses these bonuses when she is 
immobilized or helpless, when she wears any armor, when she car- , 
ries a shield, or when she carries a medium or heavy load. 

Flurry of Blows (Ex): When unarmored, a monk may strike 

with a flurry of blows at the expense of accuracy. When doing so, 
she may make one extra attack in a round at her highest base 
attack bonus, but this attack takes a —2 penalty, as does each other | 
jattack made that round. The resulting modified base attack | 
bonuses are shown in the Flurry of Blows Attack Bonus column | 
on Table 3-10: The Monk. This penalty applies for 1 round, so it | 
also affects attacks of opportunity the monk might make before | 
her next action. When a monk reaches 5th level, the penalty | 
lessens to —1, and at 9th level it disappears. A monk must use a full | 
attack action (see page 143) to strike with a flurry of blows. 

When using flurry of blows, a monk may attack only with 
unarmed strikes or with special monk weapons (kama, nunchaku, 
quarterstaff, sai, shuriken, and siangham). She may attack with 
unarmed strikes and special monk weapons interchangeably as 


+ 


Base Fort Ref _ Will Flurry of Blows Unarmed AC Unarmored 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special Attack Bonus Damage’ Bonus Speed Bonus 
Ist +0 +2 +2 +2 Bonus feat, flurry of blows, -2/-2 1d6 +0 +0 ft. 
unarmed strike 
2nd +l +3 +3 +3 Bonus feat, evasion, fast movement —1/-1 1d6 +0 +0 ft. 
3rd +2 +3 +3 +3 Still mind +0/+0 1d6 +0 +10 ft. 
4th +3 +4 +4 +4 Ki strike (magic), slow fall 20 ft. +1/+1 1d8 +0 +10 ft. 
Sth +3 +4 +4 +4 Purity of body +2/+2 1d8 +1 +10 ft. 
L 6th +4 +5 +5 +5 Bonus feat, slow fall 30 ft. +3/+3 1d8 +1 +20 ft. 
7th +5 +5 +5 +5 Wholeness of body +4/+4 1d8 +1 +20 ft. 
8th__ +6/+1 +6 +6 +6 Slow fall 40 ft. +5/+5/+0 1d10 +1 +20 ft. 
9th = +6/+1 +6 +6 +6 Improved evasion +6/+6/+1 1d10 +1 +30 ft. 
10th +7/+2 +7 +7 +7 Ki strike (lawful), slow fall 50 ft. +7/+7/+2 1d10 +2 +30 ft. 
11th +8/+3 +7 +7 +7 Diamond body, greater flurry +8/+8/+8/+3 1d10 +2 +30 ft. 
12th +9/+4 +8 +8 +8 Abundant step, slow fall 60 ft. +9/+9/+9/+4 2d6 +2 +40 ft. 
13th +9/+4 +8 +8 +8 Diamond soul +9/+9/+9/+4 2d6 +2 +40 ft. 
14th +10/+5 +9 +9 +9 Slow fall 70 ft. +10/+10/+10/+5 2d6 +2 +40 ft. 
15th +11/+6/+1 +9 +9 +9 Quivering palm +11/+11/+11/+6/+1 2d6 +3 +50 ft. 
16th +12/+7/+2 +10 +10 +10 Ki strike (adamantine), +12/+12/+12/+7/+2 2d8 +3 +50 ft. 
slow fall 80 ft. 
17th +12/+7/+2 +10 +10 +10 Timeless body, +12/+12/+12/+7/+2 2d8 +3 +50 ft. 
tongue of the sun and moon 
18th +13/+8/+3 +11 +11 +11 Slow fall 90 ft. +13/+13/+13/+8/+3 2d8 +3 +60 ft. 
19th +14/+9/+4 +11 rll alll Empty body +14/4+14/+14/+9/+4 2d8 +3 +60 ft. 
20th +15/+10/+5 +12 +12 +12 Perfect self, +15/+15/+15/+10/+5 2d10 +4 +60 ft. 
slow fall any distance 


1 The value shown is for Medium monks. See Table 3-11: Small or Large Monk Unarmed Damage for Small or Large monks. 


desired. For example, at 6th level, the monk Ember could make TABLE 3—11: SMALL OR LARGE MONK UNARMED DAMAGE 


one attack with her unarmed strike at an attack bonus of +3 and Level Damage (Small Monk) Damage (Large Monk) 
one attack with a special monk weapon at an attack bonus of +3. 1st-3rd 1d4 1d8 
When using weapons as part of a flurry of blows, a monk applies 4th-7th 1d6 2d6 
her Strength bonus (not Str bonus x 1-1/2 or x 1/2) to her damage 8th-11th 1d8 2d8 
rolls for all successful attacks, whether she wields a weapon in one 12th-15th 1d10 3d6 
or both hands. The monk can't use any weapon other than a special 16th-19th 2d6 3d8 
monk weapon as part of a flurry of blows. 20th 2d8 4d8 


In the case of the quarterstaff, each end counts as a separate 
weapon for the purpose of using the flurry of blows ability. Even 
though the quarterstaff requires two hands to use, a monk may 
still intersperse unarmed strikes with quarterstaff 
strikes, assuming that she has enough attacks 


in her flurry of blows à 


Bonus Feat: At 1st level, a monk may select either Improved 

Grapple or Stunning Fist as a bonus feat. At 2nd level, she 

may select either Combat Reflexes or Deflect Arrows as a 

bonus feat. At 6th level, she may select either Improved 

Disarm or Improved Trip as a bonus feat. (See Chap- 

ter 5: Feats for descriptions.) A monk need not 

have any of the prerequisites normally required 
for these feats to select them. 

Evasion (Ex): A monk of 2nd level or 
higher can avoid even magical and unusual 
attacks with great agility. If she makes a suc- 
cessful Reflex saving throw against an attack 

that normally deals half damage on a success- 

ful save (such as a red dragon's fiery breath or 

a fireball), she instead takes no damage. Eva- 
sion can be used only ifa monk is wearing light 
armor or no armor. A helpless monk (such as 

one who is unconscious or paralyzed) 

does not gain the benefit of evasion. 

D Fast Movement (Ex): At 3rd level, a 
‘ monk gains an enhancement bonus 

the other end of the quarterstaff at a to her speed, as shown on Table 
+0 attack bonus. She cannot, how- SS 3—10. A monk in armor (eyen 
ever, wield any other weapon at the Y f : = è 2 light armor) or carrying a 
same time that she uses a quarterstaff. 7 | medium or heavy load loses 

When a monk reaches 11th level, 
her flurry of blows ability im- 
proves. In addition to the standard 
single extra attack she gets from 
flurry of blows, she gets a second 
extra attack at her full base attack 
bonus. 

Unarmed Strike: Monks are highly 
trained in fighting unarmed, giving them 
considerable advantages when doing so. At 
1st level, a monk gains Improved 
Unarmed Strike as a bonus feat. A 
monk’s attacks may be with either fist 
interchangeably or even from elbows, knees, 
and feet. This means that a monk may even make 
unarmed strikes with her hands full. There is no fæ 
such thing as an off-hand attack for a monk strik- [OW } S 
ing unarmed. A monk may thus apply her full —_ 
Strength bonus on damage rolls for all her unarmed strikes. 

Usually a monk’s unarmed strikes deal lethal damage, but she 


routine to do so. For | 
example, an 8th-level Wy) 
monk could make two YY 
attacks with the quarter- W 
staff (one with each end) at W 
a +5 attack bonus and one 
with an unarmed strike at a Ņ | 
+0 attack bonus, or she could \ 
attack with one end of the quar- 
terstaff and one unarmed strike \ 
each at a +5 attack bonus, and Ẹ 
with the other end of the quarter- 
staff at a +0 attack bonus, or she 
could attack with one end of the 
quarterstaff and one unarmed strike 
at a +5 attack bonus each, and with 


| 


this extra speed. 

Still Mind (Ex): A monk of 3rd level or 
™), higher gains a +2 bonus on saving throws 
-i against spells and effects from the school of 
= enchantment, since her meditation and train- 
ing improve her resistance to mind-affecting 
> attacks. 

Ki Strike (Su): At 4th level, a monk’s un- 
armed attacks are empowered with ki. Her 
unarmed attacks are treated as magic 
weapons for the purpose of dealing damage 
to creatures with damage reduction 
(see Damage Reduction, page 291 of 
Bs the Dungeon Master's Guide). Ki strike 
” improves with the character’s monk 
level. At 10th level, her unarmed attacks are also treated as lawful 
weapons for the purpose of dealing damage to creatures with 
damage reduction. At 16th level, her unarmed attacks are treated 
as adamantine weapons for the purpose of dealing damage to crea- 
tures with damage reduction and bypassing hardness (see Smash- 


LCR GDD 


can choose to deal nonlethal damage instead with no penalty on 
her attack roll. She has the same choice to deal lethal or nonlethal 
damage while grappling (see page 156). 

A monk’s unarmed strike is treated both as a manufactured 
weapon and a natural weapon for the purpose of spells and effects 
that enhance or improve either manufactured weapons or natural 
weapons (such as the magic fang and magic weapon spells). 

A monk also deals more damage with her unarmed strikes than 
a normal person would, as shown on Table 3-10: The Monk. The 
unarmed damage on Table 3—10 is for Medium monks. A Small 
monk deals less damage than the amount given there with her 
unarmed attacks, while a Large monk deals more damage; see 
Table 3-11: Small or Large Monk Unarmed Damage. 


ing an Object, page 165). 

Slow Fall (Ex): At 4th level or higher, a monk within arm’s 
reach of a wall can use it to slow her descent. When first using this 
ability, she takes damage as if the fall were 20 feet shorter than it 
actually is. The monk's ability to slow her fall (that is, to reduce the 
effective distance of the fall when next to a wall) improves with 
her monk level until at 20th level she can use a nearby wall to slow 
her descent and fall any distance without harm. See the Special 
column on Table 3—10 for details. 

Purity of Body (Ex): At 5th level, a monk gains control over 
her body’s immune system. She gains immunity to all diseases 
except for supernatural and magical diseases (such as mummy rot 
and lycanthropy). 


A 


Wholeness of Body (Su): At 7th level or higher, a monk aon 


heal her own wounds. She can heal a number of hit points of 
damage equal to twice her current monk level each day, and she 
can spread this healing out among several uses. 
Improved Evasion (Ex): At 9th level, a monk's evasion ability 

improves. She still takes no damage on a successful Reflex saving 
_throw against attacks such as a dragon's breath weapon or a fireball, } 

(but henceforth she takes only half damage on a failed save. A help-| 
[less monk (such as one who is unconscious or paralyzed) does not 
_gain the benefit of improved evasion. 


f 


4 


|_Diamond Body (Su): At 11th level, a monk is in such firm con- | 


| trol of her own metabolism that she gains immunity to poisons of 
„all kinds. 

Abundant Step (Su): At 12th level or higher, a monk can slip 
magically between spaces, as if using the spell dimension door, once 
per day. Her caster level for this effect is one-half her monk level 
(rounded down), 

Diamond Soul (Ex): At 13th level, a monk gains spell resist- 
ance equal to her current monk level + 10. In order to affect the 


+ 


[ 


monk with a spell, a spellcaster must get a result on a caster level , 
check (1d20 + caster level; see Spell Resistance, page 177) that | 


equals or exceeds the monk's spell resistance. 

Quivering Palm (Su): Starting at 15th level, a monk can set 
up vibrations within the body of another creature that can there- 
after be fatal if the monk so desires. She can use this quivering 
palm attack once a week, and she must announce her intent 

(before making her attack roll. Constructs, oozes, plants, undead, 
incorporeal creatures, and creatures immune to critical hits 
\cannot be affected. Otherwise, if the monk strikes successfully 
land the target takes damage from the blow, the quivering palm 
,attack succeeds. Thereafter the monk can try to slay the victim at 
lany later time, as long as the attempt is made within a number of 
days equal to her monk level. To make such an attempt, the 
{monk merely wills the target to die (a free action), and unless the 
‘target makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 the monk's 
level + the monk’s Wis modifier), it dies. If the saving throw is 


successful, the target is no longer in danger from that particular. 
quivering palm attack, but it may still be affected by another one, 


at a later time. 


— 
Timeless Body (Ex): Upon attaining 17th level, a monk no | 


+ 


longer takes penalties to her ability scores for aging and cannot be | 


magically aged. Any such penalties that she has already taken, 
however, remain in place. Bonuses still accrue, and the monk still 
dies of old age when her time is up. _ 

Tongue of the Sun and Moon (Ex): A monk of 17th level or 

higher can speak with any living creature. 

Empty Body (Su): At 19th level, a monk gains the ability to 
assume an ethereal state for 1 round per monk level per day, as 
though using the spell etherealness. She may go ethereal on a 
[number of different occasions during any single day, as long as the 
{total number of rounds spent in an ethereal state does not exceed 

her monk level. s 

Perfect Self: At 20th level, a monk has tuned her body with 
skill and quasi-magical abilities to the point that she becomes a 
magical creature. She is forevermore treated as an outsider (an 
extraplanar creature) rather than as a humanoid for the purpose of 
spells and magical effects. For instance, charm person does not 
affect her. Additionally, the monk gains damage reduction 
10/magic, which allows her to ignore (instantly regenerate) the 
first 10 points of damage from any attack made by a nonmagical 
weapon or by any natural attack made by a creature that doesn't 


aa similar damage reduction (see Damage Reduction, page 291 


of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Unlike other outsiders, the monk 


\can still be brought back from the dead as if she were a member of 


_her previous creature type. 


+ 


Ex-Monks 


A monk who becomes nonlawful cannot gain new levels as a| 
monk but retains all monk abilities. | 
Like a member of any other class, a monk may be a multiclass; 


icharacter, but multiclass monks face a special restriction. A monk 
{who gains a new class or (if already multiclass) raises another class 
by a level may never again raise her monk level, though she 


Human Monk Starting Package 


retains all her monk abilities. 


Armor: None (speed 30 ft.). 

Weapons: Quarterstaff (1d6/1d6, crit x2, 4 lb., two-h. ended 
bludgeoning). 

Sling (1d4, crit x2, range inc. 50 ft., 0 Ib., bludgeoning). es | 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 5 + Int modi- | 
fier. 


{Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty | 
, Listen 4 Wis = 
Climb 4 Str 0 
Move Silently 4 Dex 0 
Tumble 4 Dex a0) = 
Jump 4 Str 0 
Escape Artist 4 Cae | 
Hide 4 Dex 0 
Swim 4 Str =- 0 
Balance 4 Dex 0 


+ 


+ 


Bonus Feat: If Dexterity is 13 0 or higher, Mobility; if Dexterity | J 
is 12 or lower, Blind-Fight instead. ae 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, 
bedroll, sack, and flint and steel. Three torches. Pouch with 10 
sling bullets. 

Gold: 2d4 gp. 


The compassion to pursue good, the will to uphold law, and the 
power to defeat evil—these are the three weapons of the paladin. 
Few have the purity and devotion that it takes to walk the paladin’s 
path, but those few are rewarded with the power to protect, to 
heal, and to smite. In a land of scheming wizards, unholy priests, 
bloodthirsty dragons, and infernal fiends, the paladin is the final 
hope that cannot be extinguished. 

Adventures: Paladins take their adventures seriously and have 
a penchant for referring to them as quests. Even a mundane mis- 
sion is, in the heart of the paladin, a personal test—an opportunity 
to demonstrate bravery, to develop martial skills, to learn tactics, 
and to find ways to do good. Still, the paladin really comes into her 
own when leading a mighty campaign against evil, not when 
merely looting ruins. 

Characteristics: Divine power protects the paladin and gives 
her special powers. It wards off harm, protects her from disease, 
lets her heal herself, and guards her heart against fear. A paladin 
can also direct this power to help others, healing their wounds or | 
curing diseases. Finally, a paladin can use this power to destroy , 
evil. Even a novice paladin can detect evil, and more experienced | 
paladins can smite evil foes and turn away undead. In addition, | 


this power draws a mighty steed to the paladin and imbues that, 


mount with strength, intelligence, and magical protection. — 
Alignment: Paladins must be lawful good, and they lose a 


| divine powers if they deviate from that alignment. Additionally, 
| paladins swear to follow a code of conduct that is in line with law- 
| fulness and goodness. 


Religion: A paladin need not devote herself to a single _ the duties of the paladin’s life before duties to family, clan, 
deity—devotion to righteousness is enough. Those pal- Wie and king. Elf paladins are few, and they tend to follow 
adins who do align themselves with particular religions } J quests that take them far and wide because their lawful 
prefer Heironeous (god of valor) over all others, but some bent puts them out of synch with life among the elves. 
paladins follow Pelor (god of the sun). Paladins devoted to a Members of the other common races rarely hear the call to 
god are scrupulous in observing religious duties and are i! become paladins. 
welcome in every associated temple. _ Among the savage humanoids, paladins are all but 

Background: No one ever chooses to be a paladin. unheard of. 

Becoming a paladin is answering a call, accepting å (ly as Other Classes: Even though paladins are in 
one’s destiny. No one, no matter how diligent, can ) i some ways set apart from others, they eagerly 
become a paladin through practice. The nature is team up with those whose skills and capabili- 
either within one or not, and it is not possible to gain = ties complement their own. They work well 
the paladin’s nature by any act of will. It is possible, @\ with good and lawful clerics, and they 
however, to fail to recognize one’s own potential, or appreciate working with anyone who is 
to deny one’s destiny. Occasionally, one who is called brave, honest, and committed to good. 
to be a paladin denies that call and pursues some í l MAg While they cannot abide evil acts by their 
other life instead. Ç . companions, they are otherwise willing to 

Most paladins do answer the call and Ms work with a variety of people quite different 
begin training as adolescents. Typically, from themselves. Charismatic, trustworthy, 
they become squires or assistants to experi- and well respected, the paladin makes a fine 
enced paladins, train for years, and finally leader for a team. 
set off on their own to further the Role: The paladin’s chief role in most 
causes of good and law. Other pal- groups is as a melee combatant, but she con- 
adins find their calling later in life, tributes other useful support as well. She makes 
after having pursued some other a good secondary healer, and her high Charisma 
career. All paladins, regardless of opens up fine leadership opportunities. 


background, recognize in each 
other an eternal bond that tran- GAME RULE INFORMATION 
scends culture, race, and even Paladins have the following game statistics. 
religion. Any two paladins, Abilities: Charisma enhances a pal- 
even from opposite sides of “Aà adins healing power, self-protective 
the world, consider them- capabilities, and undead turning abil- 
selves comrades. _ ity. Strength is important for 
Races: Humans, with their her because of its role in 
ambitious souls, make great combat. A Wisdom score of 
paladins. Half-elves, who 14 or higher is required to get 
often have human ambition, access to the most powerful pal- 
adin spells, and a score of 11 or 


may also find themselves 
called into service as pal- higher is required to cast any 


adins. Dwarves are some- x paladin spells at all. 
times paladins, but becom- . 9 Alignment: Lawful good. 
ing a paladin may be hard ona <$ SA á, . a Hit Die: 10. 
dwarf because it means putting at F T > all — 
m 4 Alhandra 
TABLE 3—12: THE PALADIN - 
Base Fort Ref Will — — Spells per Day — — 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 
Ist +1 +2 +0 +0 Aura of good, detect evil, smite evil 1/day 
2nd +2 +3 +0 +0 Divine grace, lay on hands 
3rd +3 +3 +l +l Aura of courage, divine health 
4th +4 +4 +1 +l Turn undead 0 — — — 
5th +5 +4 a +1 Smite evil 2/day, special mount 0 = = = 
6th +6/+1 +5 +2 +2 Remove disease 1/week 1 — — = 
7th +7/+2 +5 +2 +2 1 — — — 
8th +8/+3 +6 +2 +2 1 0 — — 
9th +9/+4 +6 +3 +3 Remove disease 2/week 1 0 = = 
10th +10/+5 +7 +3 +3 Smite evil 3/day 1 1 = — 
11th +11/+6/+1 aed +3 ars) 1 1 0 = 
12th +12/+7/+2 +8 +4 +4 Remove disease 3/week 1 1 1 = 
13th +13/+8/+3 +8 +4 +4 1 1 1 — 
14th +14/+9/+4 +9 +4 +4 2 1 1 0 
15th +15/+10/+5 +9) +5 +5 Remove disease 4/week, smite evil 4/day 2 1 1 1 
16th +16/+11/+6/+1 +10 +5 +5 2 2 1 1 
17th +17/+12/+7/+2 +10 +5 +5 2 D 2 1 
18th +18/+13/+8/+3 +11 +6 +6 Remove disease 5/week 3 2 2 1 
19th +19/+14/+9/+4 aU +6 +6 3 3 3 2 
20th +20/+15/+10/+5 +12 +6 +6 Smite evil 5/day 3 3 3 3 


Class Skills Eon = 

The paladin’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Handle 
Animal (Cha), Heal (Wis), Knowledge (nobility and royalty) (Int), 


Knowledge (religion) (Int), Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex), and. 


Sense Motive (Wis). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. _ 


Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int modifier) x 4. 
} Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier. 
Class Features 
|All of the following are class features of the paladin. 


| Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Paladins are proficient with 


tall simple and martial weapons, with all types of armor (heavy, 

medium, and light), and with shields (except tower shields). 
Aura of Good (Ex): The power of a paladin’s aura of good (see 

the detect good spell) is equal to her paladin level, just like the aura 

of a cleric of a good deity. — 

Detect Evil (Sp): At will, a paladin can use detect evil, as the spell. 

Smite Evil (Su): Once per day, a paladin may attempt to smite 


$ 


i 


Levil with one normal melee attack. She adds her Charisma bonus | 
(if any) to her attack roll and deals 1 extra point of damage per pal- | 


adin level. For example, a 13th-level paladin armed with a long- 
sword would deal 1d8+13 points of damage, plus any additional 
bonuses for high Strength or magical effects that would normally 
apply. If the paladin accidentally smites a creature that is not evil, 
the smite has no effect, but the ability is still used up for that day. 
_ At Sth level, and at every five levels thereafter, the paladin may 
{smite evil one additional time per day, as indicated on Table 3-12: 
|The Paladin, to a maximum of five times per day at 20th level. 
| Divine Grace (Su): At 2nd level, a paladin gains a bonus equal 
Lto her Charisma bonus (if any) on all saving throws. 
| __Lay on Hands (Su): Beginning at 2nd level, a paladin with a 
Charisma score of 12 or higher can heal wounds (her own or 
\those of others) by touch. Each day she can heal a total number 
‘of hit points of damage equal to her paladin level x her 
Charisma bonus. For example, a 7th-level paladin with a 16 


Charisma (+3 bonus) can heal 21 points of damage per day. A. 
paladin may choose to divide her healing among multiple recip-_ 


ients, and she doesn't have to use it all at once. Using lay on 
hands is a standard action. 

Alternatively, a paladin can use any or all of this healing powa] 
to deal damage to undead creatures. Using lay on hands in this 
way requires a successful melee touch attack and doesn't provoke 
an attack of opportunity. The paladin decides how many of her 
daily allotment of points to use as damage after successfully touch- 
ing an undead creature. 

Aura of Courage (Su): Beginning at 3rd level, a paladin is 
„immune to fear (magical or otherwise). Each ally within 10 feet of 
cher gains a +4 morale bonus on saving throws against fear effects. 
{This ability functions while the paladin is conscious, but not if she 
_is unconscious or dead. 

Divine Health (Ex): At 3rd level, a paladin gains immunity to 
all diseases, including supernatural and magical diseases (such as 
mummy rot and lycanthropy). 

Turn Undead (Su): When a paladin reaches 4th level, she gains 
the supernatural ability to turn undead. She may use this ability a 
number of times per day equal to 3 + her Charisma modifier. She 
turns undead as a cleric of three levels lower would. (See Turn or 
Rebuke Undead, page 159.) 

Spells: Beginning at 4th level, a paladin gains the ability to cast 

_asmall number of divine spells (the same type of spells available to 

the cleric, druid, and ranger), which are drawn from the paladin 
Tael list (page 191). A paladin must choose and prepare her spells 
lin advance. 

To prepare or cast a spell, a paladin must have a Wisdom score 


+ 


equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 11 for 1st-level spells, Wis | 
12 for 2nd-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for al 


+ 
higher, her caster level is one-half her paladin level. 


Ex-Paladins i 
LA paladin who ceases to be lawful good, who willfully commits an 
Levil act, or who grossly violates the code of conduct loses all pal- 
ladin spells and abilities (including the service of the paladin’s 


saving throw against a paladin’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the. 
paladins Wisdom modifier. | 

Like other spellcasters, a paladin can cast only a certain number | 
of spells of each spell level per day. Her base daily spell allotment is; 


given on Table 3-12: The Paladin. In addition, she receives bonus 
_ispells per day if she has a high Wisdom score (see Table 1-1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3-12 indicates 


that the paladin gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for 
instance, 1st-level spells for a 4th-level paladin), she gains only the , 


bonus spells she would be entitled to based on her Wisdom score | 


| for that spell level The paladin does not have access to any domain | 


spells or granted powers, as a cleric does. = 

A paladin prepares and casts spells the way a cleric does, t though 
she cannot lose a prepared spell to spontaneously cast a cure spell , 
in its place. A paladin may prepare and cast any spell on the pal-| 
adin spell list (page 191), provided that she can cast spells of that 
level, but she must choose which spells to prepare during her 
| daily meditation. 

Through 3rd level, a paladin has no caster level. At 4th level and. 


Special Mount (Sp): Upon reaching Sth level, a paladin gains the ; 
service of an unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal steed to serve. 
her in her crusade against evil (see the sidebar). This mount is usu- 
ally a heavy warhorse (for a Medium paladin) or a warpony (for a 
Small paladin). 

Once per day, as a full-round action, a paladin may magically 
call her mount from the celestial realms in which it resides. This | 


¿ability is the equivalent of a spell of a level equal to one-third the, 


paladin’s class level. The mount immediately appears adjacent to | 
the paladin and remains for 2 hours per paladin level; it may be | 
dismissed at any time as a free action. The mount is the same} 
creature each time it is called, though the paladin may release a | 
particular mount from service (if it has grown too old to join her | 
crusade, for instance). Each time the mount is called, it appears 
in full health, regardless of any damage it may have taken previ- 
ously. The mount also appears wearing or carrying any gear it 
had when it was last dismissed (including barding, saddle, sad- 
dlebags, and the like). Calling a mount is a conjuration (calling) 
effect. 5 o 

Should the paladins mount die, it immediately disappears, leav- 
ing behind any equipment it was carrying. The paladin may not 
summon another mount for thirty days or until she gains a paladin 
level, whichever comes first, even if the mount is somehow 
returned from the dead. During this thirty-day period, the paladin 
takes a —1 penalty on attack and weapon damage rolls. 

Remove Disease (Sp): At 6th level, a paladin can produce a remove 
disease effect, as the spell, once per week. She can use this ability 
one additional time per week for every three levels after 6th (twice 
per week at 9th, three times at 12th, and so forth). 

Code of Conduct: A paladin must be of lawful good alignment 
and loses all class abilities if she ever willingly commits an evil act. 
Additionally, a paladin’s code requires that she respect legitimate 
authority, act with honor (not lying, not cheating, not using 
poison, and so forth), help those in need (provided they do not use 
the help for evil or chaotic ends), and punish those who harm or 
threaten innocents. 

Associates: While she may adventure with characters of any | 
good or neutral alignment, a paladin will never knowingly associ- | 
ate with evil characters, nor will she continue an association with | 
someone who consistently offends her moral code. A paladin may | 


_accept only henchmen, followers, or cohorts who are lawful good. | 


—— — 4 


+ 


mount, but not weapon, armor, and shield proficiencies). She may 


not progress any farther in levels as a paladin. She regains her abil- 
ities and advancement potential if she atones for her violations 
(see the atonement spell description, page 201), as appropriate. 
Like a member of any other class, a paladin may be a multiclass 
character, but multiclass paladins face a special restriction. A pal- 


+ 


adin who gains a level in any class other than paladin may never _ 


_again raise her paladin level, though she retains all her paladin abil- 
Lities. The path of the paladin requires a constant heart. If a charac- 
| ter adopts this class, she must pursue it to the exclusion of all other | 
„careers. Once she has turned off the path, she may never return. | 


Human Paladin Starting Package 


Armor: Scale mail (+4 AC, armor check penalty —4, speed 20] 

ft., 30 Ib.). 

Heavy wooden shield (+2 AC, armor check penalty —2, 10 Ib.) a 
| Weapons: Longsword (1d8, crit 19-20/x2, 4 lb., one-handed, 
_ slashing). 
| Shortbow (1d6, crit x3, range inc. 60 ft., 2 1b., piercing). 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills eil to 3 + Int 
modifier. 


T t 


THE PALADIN’ s MOUNT 

The paladin’s mount is superior to a normal mount of its kind and has 
special powers, as described below. The standard mount for a Me- 
dium paladin is a heavy warhorse, and the standard mount for a Small 
paladin is a warpony (see below for statistics). Your DM may work with 
you to select another kind of mount, such as a riding dog (for a half- 
ling paladin) or a Large shark (for a paladin in an aquatic campaign). 
A paladin’s mount is treated as a magical beast, not an animal, for the 
purpose of all effects that depend on its type (though it retains an 
animal’s HD, base attack bonus, saves, skill points, and feats). 


Paladin Bonus Natural Str 

Level HD Armor Adj. Adj. Int Special 

5th-7th +2 +4 +1 6 Empathic link, improved 
evasion, share spells, 
share saving throws 

8th-10th +4 +6 +2 7 Improved speed 

11th-14th +6 +8 +3 8 Command creatures of 
its kind 

15th-20th +8 +10 +4 9 Spell resistance 


Paladin’s Mount Basics: Use the base statistics for a creature of the 
mount’s kind, as given in the Monster Manual, but make changes to 
take into account the attributes and characteristics summarized on the 
table and described below. 

Bonus HD: Extra eight-sided (d8) Hit Dice, each of which gains a 
Constitution modifier, as normal. Extra Hit Dice improve the mount’s 
base attack and base save bonuses. A special mount’s base attack 
bonus is equal to that of a cleric of a level equal to the mount’s HD. A 
mount has good Fortitude and Reflex saves (treat it as a character 
whose level equals the animal’s HD). The mount gains additional skill 
points or feats for bonus HD as normal for advancing a monster’s Hit 
Dice (see the Monster Manual). 

Natural Armor Adj.: The number on the table is an improvement to 
the mount’s existing natural armor bonus. It represents the preternat- 
ural toughness of a paladin’s mount. 

Str Adj.: Add this figure to the mount’s Strength score. 

Int: The mount’s Intelligence score. 

Empathic Link (Su): The paladin has an empathic link with her 
mount out to a distance of up to 1 mile. The paladin cannot see 
through the mount’s eyes, but they can communicate empathically. 
Note that even intelligent mounts see the world differently from 
humans, so misunderstandings are always possible. 

Because of this empathic link, the paladin has the same connection 
to an item or place that her mount does, just as with a master and his 
familiar (see Familiars, page 52). 

Improved Evasion (Ex): When subjected to an attack that normally 
allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, a mount takes no 
damage if it makes a successful saving throw and half damage if the 
saving throw fails. 

Share Spells: At the paladin’s option, she may have any spell (but 
not any spell-like ability) she casts on herself also affect her mount. 


The mount must be within 5 feet at the time of casting to receive 
the benefit. If the spell or effect has a duration other than instanta- 
neous, it stops affecting the mount if it moves farther than 5 feet 
away and will not affect the mount again even if it returns to the 
paladin before the duration expires. Additionally, the paladin may 
cast a spell with a target of “You” on her mount (as a touch range 
spell) instead of on herself. A paladin and her mount can share 
spells even if the spells normally do not affect creatures of the 
mount’s type (magical beast). 

Share Saving Throws: For each of its saving throws, the mount uses 
its own base save bonus or the paladin’s, whichever is higher. The 
mount applies its own ability modifiers to saves, and it doesn’t share 
any other bonuses on saves that the master might have (such as from 
magic items or feats). 

Improved Speed (Ex): The mount’s speed increases by 10 feet. 

Command (Sp): Once per day per two paladin levels of its master, a 
mount can use this ability to command other any normal animal of 
approximately the same kind as itself (for warhorses and warponies, 
this category includes donkeys, mules, and ponies), as long as the 
target creature has fewer Hit Dice than the mount. This ability func- 
tions like the command spell, but the mount must make a DC 21 
Concentration check to succeed if it’s being ridden at the time (in 
combat, for instance). If the check fails, the ability does not work that 
time, but it still counts against the mount’s daily uses. Each target may 
attempt a Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 paladin’s level + paladin’s Cha modi- 
fier) to negate the effect. 

Spell Resistance (Ex): A mount’s spell resistance equals its master’s 
paladin level + 5. To affect the mount with a spell, a spellcaster must get 
a result on a caster level check (1d20 + caster level; see Spell Resistance, 
page 177) that equals or exceeds the mount’s spell resistance. 


SAMPLE PALADIN’S MOUNTS 


The statistics below are for normal creatures of the appropriate kinds; 
they do not include the modifications given on the table above. 


Heavy Warhorse: CR 2; Large animal; HD 4d8+12; hp 30; Init +1; Spd 
50 ft.; AC 14, touch 10, flat-footed 13; Base Atk +3; Grp +11; Atk +6 
melee (1d6+4, hoof); Full Atk +6/+6 melee (1d6+4, 2 hooves) and +1 
melee (1d4+2, bite); Space/Reach 10 ft./5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, 
scent; SV Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +2; Str 18, Dex 13, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, 
Cha 6. 

Skills and Feats: Jump +12, Listen +5, Spot +4; Endurance, Run. 


Warpony: CR 1/3; Medium animal; HD 2d8+4; hp 13; Init +1; Spd 40 
ft.; AC 13, touch 11, flat-footed 12; Base Atk +1; Grp +3; Atk +3 melee 
(1d3+2, hoof); Full Atk +3/+3 melee (1d3+2, 2 hooves); Space/Reach 
5 ft./5 ft.; SQ low-light vision, scent; SV Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +0; Str 15, 
Dex 13, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 4. 

Skills and Feats: Jump +6, Listen +5, Spot +5; Endurance. 


See page 85 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide for information on how to 
read a creature’s statistics block. 


å S 5 e Oxi § ~ iy z 

Skill Ranks Ability _ Armor Check Penalty certain types of creatures, which makes it easier for him to find 
Heal 4 Wis — and defeat such foes. Finally, an experienced ranger has such a tie 
Ride 4 Dex — to nature that he can actually draw upon natural power to cast 
Diplomacy 4 Cha — divine spells, much as a druid does. 

Spot (cc) 2 Wis — Alignment: Rangers can be of any alignment. Most are good, 
Listen (cc) 2 Wis — and such rangers usually function as protectors of the wild areas. In 
Climb (cc) 2 Str -6 this role, a ranger seeks out and destroys 
Search (cc) 2 Int — or drives off evil creatures that threaten 


Soveliss f) 
P the wilderness. Good rangers also pro- 
tect those who travel through the wilder- 
ness, serving sometimes as guides and 
sometimes as unseen guardians. Most 
rangers are also chaotic, preferring to follow 
the ebb and flow of nature or of their own hearts 
instead of rigid rules. Evil rangers, though rare, 
FA are much to be feared. They revel in nature’s 
Ne thoughtless cruelty and seek to emulate her 
s A most fearsome predators. They gain divine 
spells just as good rangers do, for nature her- 
self is indifferent to good and evil. 
Religion: Though a ranger gains his 


Feat: Weapon Focus (longsword). 
Bonus Feat: Improved Initiative. 
Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, 
bedroll, sack, flint and steel. Hooded lantern, three ha 
of oil. Quiver with 20 arrows. Wooden holy symbol (fist 
of Heironeous, god of valor). 
Gold: 6d4 gp. 


The forests and hills are home to fierce and P= $7 
cunning creatures, such as blood- p- 
thirsty owlbears and malicious dis- 
placer beasts. But more cunning 
and powerful than these monsters W 
is the ranger, a skilled hunter and ® 
stalker. He knows the woods as if 
they were his home (as indeed they 
are), and he knows his prey in 
deadly detail. 

Adventures: A ranger often 
accepts the role of protector, aiding 
those who live in or travel through 
the woods. In addition, a ranger carries 
grudges against certain types of crea- 
tures and looks for opportunities to 
find and destroy them. He may also adven- 
ture for all the reasons that a fighter does. 

Characteristics: A ranger can use a 
variety of weapons and is quite capable 
in combat. His skills allow him to 
survive in the wilderness, to find 
his prey, and to avoid detection. 


He also has special knowledge about ~ e= 


like anyone else may worship a chosen 
deity. Ehlonna (goddess of the wood- 

} lands) and Obad-Hai (god of nature) are 
9 the most common deities revered by 

rangers, though some prefer more mar- 
tial deities. 
Background: Some rangers gained 
their training as part of special military 
teams, but most learned their skills from 
solitary masters who accepted them as stu- 
' dents and assistants. The rangers of a partic- 
ular master may count themselves as 
» cohorts, or they may be rivals for the 
status of best student and thus rightful heir 
to their master’s fame. 

Races: Elves often choose the ranger’s 
gah They are at home in the woods, and 
they have the grace to move stealthily. 
Half-elves who feel their elf 
parent’s connection to the woods 
are also likely to adopt this class. 


ee —ee 
TABLE 3—13: THE RANGER z 
Base Fort Ref will ———Spells per Day——_—— 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 
Ist +1 +2 +2 +0 Ist favored enemy, Track, wild empathy 
2nd +2 +3 +3 +0 Combat style 
3rd +3 +3 +3 +1 Endurance 
4th +4 +4 +4 +l Animal companion 0 — — — 
5th +5 +4 +4 +1 2nd favored enemy 0 — — — 
6th +6/+1 +5 +5 +2 Improved combat style 1 — — — 
7th +7/+2 +5 +5 +2 Woodland stride 1 — = = 
8th +8/+3 +6 +6 +2 Swift tracker 1 0 — — 
9th +9/+4 +6 +6 +3 Evasion 1 0 — — 
10th +10/+5 +7 +7 +3 3rd favored enemy 1 1 — — 
11th +11/+6/+1 7 trl +3 Combat style mastery 1 1 0 = 
12th +12/+7/+2 +8 +8 +4 1 1 1 — 
13th +13/+8/+3 +8 +8 +4 Camouflage 1 1 1 — 
14th +14/+9/+4 +9 +9 +4 2 1 1 0 
15th +15/+10/+5 +9 +9 T5 4th favored enemy 2 1 1 1 
16th +16/+11/+6/+1 +10 +10 +5 2 2 1 1 
17th +17/4+12/+7/+2 +10 +10 +5 Hide in plain sight 2 2 2 1 
18th +18/+13/+8/+3 +11 +11 +6 3 2 2 1 
19th +19/+14/+9/+4 w +11 +6 3 3 3 2 
20th +20/+15/+10/+5 +12 +12 +6 5th favored enemy 3 3 3 2 
e $ Paz h ~ P At ` 
Mic Se m pz ie he w^ 
oa he EARS: ALAS z Soar eM CPEs oS Pe Pie fe ge ` a 
ae S Sik ; ves CBR fe $ AEN red a z4 Aiai om Fe ate * 


Humans are often rangers as well, being adaptable enough to learn 
their way around the woods even if it doesn't come naturally to 
them. Half-orcs may find the ranger’s life more comfortable than 
life among cruel and taunting humans (or orcs). Gnome rangers 
are more common than gnome fighters, but still they tend to, 
remain in their own lands rather than adventure among “the big | 
_people.” Dwarf rangers are rare, but they can be quite effective. 
Instead of living in the surface wilderness, they are at home in the | 
Lendless caverns beneath the earth. Here they hunt down and} 
„destroy the enemies of dwarvenkind with the relentless precision. 
for which dwarves are known. Dwarf rangers are often known as | 
| cavers. Halfling rangers are highly respected for their ability to 
help communities of halflings prosper as they pursue their 
nomadic lifestyle. 

Among the savage humanoids, only gnolls are commonly 

rangers, using their skills to slyly stalk their prey. 

Other Classes: Rangers get along well with druids and to some 
extent with barbarians. They are known to bicker with paladins, | 
mostly because they often share goals but differ in style, tactics, | 
| approach, philosophy, and esthetics. Since rangers don't often look | 

to other people for support or friendship, they find it easy to toler- | 
ate people who are quite different from themselves, such as book- 
ish wizards and preachy clerics. They just don't care enough to get 
upset about others’ differences. 

Role: The ranger’s best role is that of a scout and secondary 

combatant. Without the heavy armor of the fighter or the staying 
| power of the barbarian, the ranger should focus on opportunistic 
and ranged attacks. Most rangers use their animal companions as 
\sentries, scouts, or to assist them in melee combat. 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


| Rangers have the following game statistics. 

Abilities: Dexterity is important for a ranger both because he 
‚tends to wear light armor and because several ranger skills are 
based on that ability. Strength is important because rangers fre- 
quently get involved in combat. Several ranger skills are based on 
Wisdom, and a Wisdom score of 14 or higher is required to get. 
access to the most powerful ranger spells. A Wisdom score of 11 or, 
higher is required to cast any ranger spells at all. One of the ranger’s | 


trademark skills, his ability to track foes, is based on Wisdom. | 


Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: ds. 


Class Skills _— 
The ranger’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Climb (Str), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Handle Animal 
(Cha), Heal (Wis), Hide (Dex), Jump (Str), Knowledge (dungeon- 
_eering) (Int), Knowledge (geography) (Int), Knowledge (nature) 
(Int), Listen (Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Profession (Wis), Ride 
(Dex), Search (Int), Spot (Wis), Survival (Wis), Swim (Str), and 
| Use Rope (Dex). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (6 + Int modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 6 + Int modifier. 


Class Features _ 
All of the following are class features of the ranger. 
all simple and martial weapons, and =n light armor and shields 
(except tower shields). 
Favored Enemy (Ex): At 1st level, a ranger may select a type of 
(creature from among those given on Table 3—14: Ranger Favored 
Enemies. Due to his extensive study of his chosen type of foe and 
| training in the proper techniques for combating such creatures, 
the ranger gains a +2 bonus on Bluff, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, 
and Survival checks when using these skills against creatures of 
this type. Likewise, he gets a +2 bonus on weapon damage rolls | 
against such creatures. 


At 5th level and every five levels thereafter (10th, 15th, and 20th. 
level), the ranger may select an additional favored enemy from | 
those given on the table. In addition, at each such interval, the | 
bonus against any one favored enemy (including the one just. 

iselected, if so desired) increases by 2. For example, a 5th-level 

l ranger has two favored enemies; against one he gains a +4 bonus on 

| Bluff, Listen, Sense Motive, Spot, and Survival checks and weapon 
damage rolls, and against the other he has a +2 bonus. At 10th level, 
he has three favored enemies, and he gains an additional +2 bonus, , 

which he can allocate to the bonus against any one of his three | 
| favored enemies. Thus, his bonuses could be either +4, +4, +2 or +6,_ 
+2, +2. 

If the ranger chooses humanoids or outsiders as a favored 
enemy, he must also choose an associated subtype, as indicated on , 
the table. If a specific creature falls into more than one category of | 
favored enemy (for instance, devils are both evil outsiders and 

lawful outsiders), the ranger’s bonuses do not stack; he simply uses 
iwhichever bonus is higher. See the Monster Manual for more infor- , 
mation on types of creatures. | 


TABLE 3—14: RANGER FAVORED ENEMIES 


Type (Subtype) Examples 

Aberration beholder 

Animal bear 

Construct golem 

Dragon black dragon a 

Elemental invisible stalker | 
l Fey dryad ; $ 
Giant ogre 4 
Humanoid (aquatic) merfolk a 
Humanoid (dwarf) dwarf 4 
Humanoid (elf) — elf SS 
Humanoid (goblinoid) hobgoblin | 
Humanoid (gnoll) gnoll 

Humanoid (gnome) gnome 

Humanoid (halfling) halfling = 
Humanoid (human) human 

Humanoid (orc) orc 

Humanoid (reptilian) kobold 

Magical beast displacer beast 

Monstrous humanoid minotaur 


Ooze _ _gelatinous cube 


Outsider (air) arrowhawk 
Outsider (chaotic) demon 
Outsider (earth) xorn 

Outsider (evil) devil 

Outsider (fire) salamander 
Outsider (good) angel 

Outsider (lawful) formian 

Outsider (native) tiefling 

Outsider (water) tojanida 

Plant shambling mound 
Undead zombie 

Vermin monstrous spider 


Track: A ranger gains Track (see page 101) as a bonus feat. 

Wild Empathy (Ex): A ranger can use body language, vocaliza- | 
tions, and demeanor to improve the attitude of an animal (such as | 
a bear or a monitor lizard). This ability functions just like a Diplo- | 
macy check to improve the attitude of a person (see page 72). The | 

_ranger rolls 1d20 and adds his ranger level and his Charisma mod- | 
ifier_to determine the wild empathy check result. The typical | 
domestic animal has a starting attitude of indifferent, while wild | | 

‘animals are usually unfriendly. 

To use wild empathy, the ranger and the animal must be able to 

| study each other, which means that they must be within 30 feet 
of one another under normal visibility conditions. Generally, 


av 


influencing an animal in this way takes 1 minute, but, as with 
influencing people, it might take more or less time. _ 

The ranger can also use this ability to influence a magical beast 
with an Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (such as a basilisk ora girallon), 
but he takes a —4 penalty on the check. | 


Combat Style (Ex): At 2nd level, a ranger must select one of | 


‚two combat styles to pursue: archery or two-weapon combat. This | 
choice affects the character's class features but does not restrict his | 


| selection of feats or special abilities in any way. 
If the ranger selects archery, he is treated as having the Rapid Shot, 


feat, even if he does not have the normal prerequisites for that feat. | 


__If the ranger selects two-weapon combat, he is treated as having 
the Two-Weapon Fighting feat, even if he does not have the 
normal prerequisites for that feat. 
The benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only when he 
wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his combat style 
‚when wearing medium or heavy armor. 


Endurance: A ranger gains Endurance (see page 93) as a bonus t 


feat at 3rd level. 


Animal Companion (Ex): At 4th level, a ranger gains an ani-_ 
mal companion selected from the following list: badger, camel, , 


dire rat, dog, riding dog, eagle, hawk, horse (light or heavy), owl, 
pony, snake (Small or Medium viper), or wolf. If the DM’s cam- 
paign takes place wholly or partly in an aquatic environment, the 
DM may add the following creatures to the ranger’s list of options: 
crocodile, porpoise, Medium shark, and squid. This animal is a 
loyal companion that accompanies the ranger on his adventures as 
appropriate for its kind. (For instance, an aquatic creature can't 
\adventure with a ranger on land and shouldn't be selected by a 
\nonaquatic character without extenuating circumstances). In 
most cases, the animal companion functions as a mount, sentry, 
\scout, or hunting animal, rather than as a protector. 

This ability functions like the druid ability of the same name 
| (see page 35), except that the ranger’s effective druid level is one- 
‘half his ranger level. For example, the animal companion of a 4th- 

level ranger would be the equivalent of a 2nd-level druids animal 


animal naon just as a druid can, though again 1 his effective, 
druid level is half his ranger level. Thus, he must be at least an 8th- | 


level ranger to select from the druids list of 4th-level animal com- | 
panions, and if he chooses one of those animals, his effective druid. 


level would be reduced by 3, to 1st level. Like a druid, a ranger 
cannot select an alternative animal if the choice would reduce his 
effective druid level below 1st. — 
Spells: Beginning at 4th level, a ranger gains the ability to cast 
a small number of divine spells (the same type of spells available to 
the cleric, druid, and paladin), which are drawn from the ranger 
„spell list (page 191). A ranger must choose and prepare his spells 
lin advance (see below). 
__To prepare or cast a spell, a ranger must have a Wisdom score 
lequal to at least 10 + the spell level (Wis 11 for 1st-level spells, Wis 
12 for 2nd-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a 
saving throw against a ranger’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the 
ranger’s Wisdom modifier. 

Like other spellcasters, a ranger can cast only a certain number 
of spells of each spell level per day. His base eal spell allotment is 
spells per day if hé hasa high Wisdom score re (see Table 1—1: Ability 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). When Table 3-13 indicates 

‚that the ranger gets 0 spells per day of a given spell level (for 
instance, 1st-level spells for a 4th-level ranger), he gains only the 
bonus spells he would be entitled to based on his Wisdom score 
Tie that spell level. The ranger does not have access to any domain 

{spells or granted powers, as a cleric does. 
A ranger prepares and casts spells the way a cleric does, 


though he cannot lose a prepared spell to cast a cure spell in its 
place. A ranger may prepare and cast any spell on the ranger spell | 


+ 


list, provided that he can cast spells of that level, but he must, 
choose which spells to prepare during his daily meditation. | 
Through 3rd level, a ranger has no caster level. At 4th level and | 
higher, his caster level is one-half his ranger level. 
Improved Combat Style (Ex): At 6th level, a ranger’s aptitude | 


lin his chosen combat style (archery or two-weapon combat) 


improves. If he selected archery at 2nd level, he is treated as 


having the Manyshot feat (page 97), even if he does not have the 
normal prerequisites for that feat. 
If the ranger selected two-weapon combat at 2nd level, he is. 


‘treated as having the Improved Two-Weapon Fighting feat (page. 


96), even if he does not have the normal prerequisites for that feat. 
As before, the benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only 

when he wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his, 

combat style when wearing medium or heavy armor. 
Woodland Stride (Ex): Starting at 7th level, a ranger may] 


move through any sort of undergrowth (such as natural thorns, 


+ 


¿and unusual attacks with great agility. If he makes a successful | 


ibriars, overgrown areas, and similar terrain) at his normal speed , 


and without taking damage or suffering any other impairment., 


‘However, thorns, briars, and overgrown areas that are enchanted 


or magically manipulated to impede motion still affect him. 

Swift Tracker (Ex): Beginning at 8th level, a ranger can move | 
at his normal speed while following tracks without taking the 
normal —5 penalty. He takes only a —10 penalty (instead of the 
normal —20) when moving at up to twice normal speed while 
tracking. 

Evasion (Ex): At 9th level, a ranger can \ avoid even magical, 
$ 
Reflex saving throw against an attack that normally deals half | 
damage on a successful save (such as a red dragon's fiery breath or | 
a fireball), he instead takes no damage. Evasion can be used only if | 
the ranger is wearing light armor or no armor. A helpless ranger | 
(such as one who is unconscious or paralyzed) does not gain the | 
benefit of evasion. 

Combat Style Mastery (Ex): At 11th level, a ranger’s aptitude 
in his chosen combat style (archery or two-weapon combat) 
improves again. If he selected archery at 2nd level, he is treated as 
having the Improved Precise Shot feat (page 96), even if he does 
not have the normal prerequisites for that feat. 

If the ranger selected two-weapon combat at 2nd level, he 
is treated as ae the Greater Two-Weapon Fighting feat 
for that feat. 

As before, the benefits of the ranger’s chosen style apply only 
when he wears light or no armor. He loses all benefits of his 
combat style when wearing medium or heavy armor. 

Camouflage (Ex): A ranger of 13th level or higher can use the 
Hide skill in any sort of natural terrain, even if the terrain doesn't 
grant cover or concealment. 

Hide in Plain Sight (Ex): While in any sort of natural terrain, 
a ranger of 17th level or higher can use the Hide skill even while 
being observed. 


Elf Ranger Starting Package 


Armor: Studded leather (+3 AC, armor check penalty —1, speed 
30 ft., 20 lb.). 

Weapons: Longsword (1d8, crit 19-20/x2, 4 lb., one-handed, | 
slashing). 

Short sword, off hand (1d6, crit 19-20/xz2, 2 1b., light, piercing). } 

Note: When striking with both swords, the ranger takes a —4 | 


| penalty with his longsword and a —8 penalty with his short sword. | 


If he has a Strength bonus, add only one-half of it to his damage | 
roll with the short sword, which is in his off hand, but add the full | 


‘Strength bonus to his damage roll with the longsword. 


Longbow (1d8, crit x3, range inc. 100 ft., 3 Ib., piercing). 
__ Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 6 + Int modifier. 


Skill Ranks Ability _ Armor Check Penalty 

Survival 4 Wis — 

Hide 4 Dex = =] 

Move Silently 4 Dex -1 

Listen 4 Wis — 

Spot 4 Wis — } 
_Knowledge (nature) 4 Int — } 
| Climb 4 Str -1 
| Heal 4 Wis — } 
¿Swim 4 Str -2 
Search 4 Int — 


ESS ee ROGUE 


Feat: Point Blank Shot. 

Favored Enemy: Magical beast. 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Three torches. Quiver with 20 arrows. 

Gold: 2d4 gp. 


Rogues have little in common with one another. Some are stealthy, 
thieves. Others are silver-tongued tricksters. Still others are scouts, 
infiltrators, spies, diplomats, or thugs. What they do share is versa- 
tility, adaptability, and resourcefulness. In general, rogues are 
skilled at getting what others don't want them to get: entrance into 
a locked treasure vault, safe passage past a deadly trap, secret battle 


| plans, a guard's trust, or some random person's pocket money. 


t 


Adventures: Rogues adventure for the same reason they do 


l most other things: to get what they can get. Some are after loot; 
others want experience. Some crave fame; others seek infamy. 
Quite a few also enjoy a challenge. Figuring out how to thwart a 
trap or avoid an alarm is great fun for many rogues. 


Characteristics: Rogues are highly skilled, and they can con- 


centrate on developing any of several categories of skills. While 


not equal to members of many other classes in combat, a rogue 
knows how to hit where it hurts, and she can dish out a lot of 
damage with a sneak attack. 

Rogues have a sixth sense when it comes to avoiding danger.. 
Experienced rogues develop mystical powers and skills as they | 
master the arts of stealth, evasion, and sneak attacks. In addition, | 
while not capable of casting spells on their own, rogues can “fake | 
it” well enough to cast spells from scrolls, activate wands, and use 
just about any other magic item. 


TABLE 3—15: THE ROGUE 


Base Fort Ref 

Level Attack Bonus Save Save 
isi +0 +0 +2 
| 2nd +] +0 +3 
3rd +2 +1 +3 
4th +3 +] +4 
5th +3 +1 +4 
6th +4 +2 +5 
7th +5 +2 +5 
8th +6/+1 +2 +6 
9th +6/+1 +3 +6 
10th +7/+2 +3 +7 
11th +8/+3 +3 +7 
12th +9/+4 +4 +8 
13th +9/+4 +4 +8 
14th +10/+5 +4 +9 
15th +11/+6/+1 735) +9 
16th +12/+7/+2 +5 +10 
17th 4+12/4+7/+2 +5 +10 
18th +13/+8/+3 +6 +11 
19th +14/+9/+4 +6 +11 
20th +15/+10/+5 +6 +12 


double-crossed her mentor and needs some “space.” 


Alignment: Rogues follow opportunities, not ideals. Though | 
they are more likely to be chaotic than lawful, they are a diverse | 
bunch, so they may be of any alignment. | 

Religion: Although they are not renowned for their piety, most} 


rogues revere Olidammara (god of thieves). Evil rogues might 
L secretly worship Nerull (god of death) or Erythnul (god of slaugh- 
\ter). Since rogues are so diverse, however, many of them worship 


other deities, or none at all. 
Background: Some rogues are officially inducted into an, 


„organized fellowship of rogues or “guild of thieves.” Some are self- | 
l taught; others learned their skills from independent mentors. | 


Often, an experienced rogue needs an assistant for scams, second- 
story jobs, or just for watching her back. She recruits a likely 
youngster, who then learns the skills of the trade on the job. Even- , 
tually the trainee is ready to move on, perhaps because the mentor | 
has run afoul of the law, or perhaps because the trainee has 


Rogues do not see each other as fellows unless they happen to, 


\be members of the same guild or students of the same mentor. In , 
_fact, rogues trust other rogues less than they trust anyone else. 


They're no fools. 

Races: Adaptable and often unprincipled, humans take to the, 
rogue’s life with ease. Halflings, elves, and half-elves also find 
themselves well suited to the demands of this career. Dwarf and 
gnome rogues, while less common, are renowned as experts with 
locks and traps. Half-orc rogues tend toward thuggery. 

Rogues are common among brutal humanoids, especially gob- 


ilins and bugbears. Rogues who learn their arts in savage lands, | 


however, generally don't have much experience with complex | 
mechanisms such as traps and locks. 

Other Classes: Rogues love and hate working with members | 
of other classes. They excel when protected by warriors and sup- 
ported by spellcasters. There are plenty of times, however, that. 
they wish everyone else was as quiet, guileful, and patient as 
they. Rogues are particularly wary of paladins, so they endeavor 
to prove themselves useful when contact with paladins is 
unavoidable. —— 

Role: The rogue’s role in a group can vary dramatically based on 
her skill selection—from charismatic con artist to cunning burglar 
to agile combatant—but most rogues share certain aspects. They 
aren't capable of prolonged melee combat, so they focus on oppor- 
tunistic sneak attacks or ranged attacks. The rogue's stealth and her 
trapfinding ability make her one of the best scouts in the game. 


Will 
Save Special 
+0 Sneak attack +1d6, trapfinding 
+0 Evasion 
+1 Sneak attack +2d6, trap sense +1 
+1 Uncanny dodge 
+1 Sneak attack +3d6 
+2 Trap sense +2 
+2 Sneak attack +4d6 
+2 Improved uncanny dodge 
+3 Sneak attack +5d6, trap sense +3 
+3 Special ability 
+3 Sneak attack +6d6 
+4 Trap sense +4 
+4 Sneak attack +7d6, special ability 
+4 — 
+5 Sneak attack +8d6, trap sense +5 
+5 Special ability 
+5 Sneak attack +9d6 
+6 Trap sense +6 
+6 Sneak attack +10d6, special ability 
+6 = 


Š 
Š 
BNI 
= 

Š 
3 


GAME RULE INFORMATION 


Rogues have the following game statistics. 

Abilities: Dexterity provides extra protection for the lightly 
armored rogue. Dexterity, Intelligence, and Wisdom are impor- 
tant for many of the rogue’s skills. A high Intelligence score also 
gives the rogue extra skill points, which can be used to expand her 
repertoire. 

Alignment: Any. 

Hit Die: d6. 


Class Skills 
The rogue’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are 
Appraise (Int), Balance (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Climb (Str), Craft 
(Int), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomacy (Cha), Disable 
Device (Int), Disguise (Cha), Escape Artist (Dex), Forgery 
(Int), Gather Information (Cha), Hide (Dex), Intimidate $ 
(Cha), Jump (Str), Knowledge (local) (Int), Listen 
(Wis), Move Silently (Dex), Open Lock (Dex), Perform 
(Cha), Profession (Wis), Search (Int), Sense Motive 
(Wis), Sleight of Hand (Dex), Spot (Wis), Swim (Str), 
Tumble (Dex), Use Magic Device (Cha), and Use 
Rope (Dex). See Chapter 4: Skills for skill descrip- 
tions. 

Skill Points at 1st Level: (8 
+ Int modifier) x 4. 

Skill Points at Each Addi- 
tional Level: 8 + Int modifier. 


Class Features 
All of the following are class fea- 
tures of the rogue. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: 
Rogues are proficient with all simple 
weapons, plus the hand 
crossbow, rapier, sap, short- f 
bow, and short sword. 
Rogues are proficient with 
light armor, but not with 
shields. 

Sneak Attack (Ex): Ifa gy | 
rogue can catch an oppo-_ §& 
nent when he is unable to g 
defend himself effectively ~ 
from her attack, she can strike a vital spot for extra Lidda 
damage. Basically, the rogue’s attack deals extra 
damage any time her target would be denied a Dexterity bonus to 
AC (whether the target actually has a Dexterity bonus or not), or 
when the rogue flanks her target. This extra damage is 1dé at 1st 
level, and it increases by 1d6 every two rogue levels thereafter. 
Should the rogue score a critical hit with a sneak attack, this extra 
damage is not multiplied. (See Table 8—5: Attack Roll Modifiers 
and Table 8—6: Armor Class Modifiers, page 151, for combat situa- 
tions in which the rogue flanks an opponent or the opponent loses 
his Dexterity bonus to AC.) 

Ranged attacks can count as sneak attacks only if the target is 
within 30 feet. A rogue can't strike with deadly accuracy from 
beyond that range. 

With a sap (blackjack) or an unarmed strike, a rogue can make a 
sneak attack that deals nonlethal damage instead of lethal damage. 
She cannot use a weapon that deals lethal damage to deal non- 
lethal damage in a sneak attack, not even with the usual —4 
penalty, because she must make optimal use of her weapon in 
order to execute a sneak attack. (See Nonlethal Damage, page 146.) 

A rogue can sneak attack only living creatures with discernible 
anatomies—undead, constructs, oozes, plants, and incorporeal 
creatures lack vital areas to attack. Any creature that is immune to 
critical hits is not vulnerable to sneak attacks. The rogue must be 


Ss 


we - a a 
a sig ya tat 

i a eS Oe ce 
SA. TAGi or 


able to see the target well enough to pick out a vital spot and must 
be able to reach such a spot. A rogue cannot sneak attack while 
striking a creature with concealment (see page 152) or striking the 
limbs of a creature whose vitals are beyond reach. 

Trapfinding (Ex): Rogues (and only rogues) can use the Search 
skill to locate traps when the task has a Difficulty Class higher 
than 20. Finding a nonmagical trap has a DC of at least 20, or 
higher if it is well hidden. Finding a magic trap has a DC of 25 + 
the level of the spell used to create it. 

Rogues (and only rogues) can use the Disable Device skill to 
disarm magic traps. A magic trap generally has a DC of 25 + the 
level of the spell used to create it. 

A rogue who beats a trap’s DC by 10 or 
more with a Disable Device check can 
study a trap, figure out how it works, and 
bypass it (with her party) without disarm- 
Le ing it. 
Evasion (Ex): At 2nd level and higher, a 
ØE rogue can avoid even magical and unusual 
Ay @ Mh, attacks with great agility. If she makes a 
è successful Reflex saving throw against 
N an attack that normally deals half 
damage on a successful save 
=>, (such as a red dragon's fiery 
ÆA breath or a fireball), she 
instead takes no damage. Eva- 
4) sion can be used only if the 
fl rogue is wearing light armor or 
no armor. A helpless rogue 
(such as one who is uncon- 
scious or paralyzed) does not 
gain the benefit of evasion. 
Trap Sense (Ex): At 3rd level, a 
©. rogue gains an intuitive sense that 
4 alerts her to danger from traps, 
«giving her a +1 bonus on Reflex 
saves made to avoid traps anda +1 
© dodge bonus to AC against 
“were attacks made by traps. These 
bonuses rise to +2 when the 
> ¢. & __ rogue reaches 6th level, to 
oe +3 when she reaches 9th 
level, to +4 when she reaches 
` 12th level, to +5 at 15th, and to +6 at 18th level. 
pa : Trap sense bonuses gained from multiple classes 
stack. 
Uncanny Dodge (Ex): Starting at 4th level, a rogue 
can react to danger before her senses would normally allow 
her to do so. She retains her Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) even if 
she is caught flat-footed or struck by an invisible attacker. How- 
ever, she still loses her Dexterity bonus to AC if immobilized. 

Ifa rogue already has uncanny dodge from a different class (a 
rogue with at least two levels of barbarian, for example), she auto- 
matically gains improved uncanny dodge (see below) instead. 

Improved Uncanny Dodge (Ex): A rogue of 8th level or 
higher can no longer be flanked; she can react to opponents on 
opposite sides of her as easily as she can react to a single attacker. 
This defense denies another rogue the ability to sneak attack the 
character by flanking her, unless the attacker has at least four 
more rogue levels than the target does. 

If a character already has uncanny dodge (see above) from a 
second class, the character automatically gains improved uncanny 
dodge instead, and the levels from the classes that grant uncanny 
dodge stack to determine the minimum rogue level required to 
flank the character. 

Special Abilities: On attaining 10th level, and at every three 
levels thereafter (13th, 16th, and 19th), a rogue gains a special 


ability of her choice from among the following options. Dagger (1d3, crit 19-20/x2, range inc. 10 ft., 1/2 1b., light,. 


Crippling Strike (Ex): A rogue with this ability can sneak attack piercing). | 
opponents with such precision that her blows weaken and Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 8 + Int modi- | 
hamper them. An opponent damaged by one of her sneak attacks fier. 
also takes 2 points of Strength damage. Ability points lost toL 4 
damage return on their own at the rate of 1 point per day for each} _| Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
damaged ability. | Move Silently 4 Dex 0 

| Defensive Roll (Ex): The rogue can roll with a potentially lethal! Hide 4 Dex 0 
blow to take less damage from it than she otherwise would. Once} Spot 4 Wis — 
‚per day, when she would be reduced to 0 or fewer hit points by | _Listen = 4 Wis —  } 
damage in combat (from a weapon or other blow, not a spell or spe- |Search 4 Int — ] 
| cial ability), the rogue can attempt to roll with the damage. To use Disable Device 4 Int o o 
this ability, the rogue must attempt a Reflex saving throw (DC = Open Lock 4 Dex — 
damage dealt). If the save succeeds, she takes only half damage Climb 4 Str 0 | 
from the blow; if it fails, she takes full damage. She must be aware Use Magic Device 4 Cha — | 
of the attack and able to react to it in order to execute her defen- Sleight of Hand 4 Dex 0 
„sive roll—if she is denied her Dexterity bonus to AC, she can't use _ Decipher Script 4 Int 
this ability. Since this effect would not normally allow a character} {Bluff 4 Cha — | 
|to make a Reflex save for half damage, the rogue’s evasion ability} _} Intimidate 4 Cha = | 
| does not apply to the defensive roll. L o 
Improved Evasion (Ex): This ability works like evasion, except | Feat: Improved Initiative. 


Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day's trail rations, bedroll, . 
sack, and flint and steel. Thieves’ tools. Hooded lantern and three 
pints of oil. Case with 10 crossbow bolts, 

Gold: 4d4 gp. _ 


+, SORCERER] 


Sorcerers create magic the, 


that while the rogue still takes no damage on a successful Reflex 
saving throw against attacks such as a dragon's breath weapon or 
a fireball, henceforth she takes only half damage on a failed 
save. A helpless rogue (such as one who is bound, uncon- a 
scious, or paralyzed) does not gain the benefit of improved ai r; 
_evasion. d s 
| Opportunist (Ex): Once per round, the rogue N ka BE -ionni 
lcan make an attack of opportunity against an. /” 7A 
[opponent who has just been struck for P — ¥ 4 te 4 way a poet creates poems. | 
_damage in melee by another character. This pa oh! s with inborn talent honed by. 
Lattack counts as the rogue’s attack of oppor- $ \ eae à practice. They have no books, | 
tunity for that round. Even a rogue with \ 3 no mentors, no theories—just_ 
the Combat Reflexes feat can't use the raw power that they direct at will. 
opportunist ability more than once per Some sorcerers claim that the 
round. blood of dragons courses through their 
veins. That claim may be true in some 
cases—it is common knowledge that cer- 
tain powerful dragons can take humanoid 
ditions. Upon gaining this ability, she form and even have humanoid lovers, 
selects a number of skills equal to 3 + her and it’s difficult to prove that a given 
Intelligence modifier. When makinga J A S \ _sorcerer does not have a dragon 
skill check with one of these skills, she s ancestor. It’s true that sorcerers 
may take 10 even if stress and distrac- often have striking good looks, 
tions would normally prevent her usually with a touch of the 
from doing so. A rogue may gain exotic that hints at an 
this special ability multiple times, unusual heritage. Others 
„selecting additional skills for it hold that the claim is 
| to apply to each time. either an unsubstanti- 
Slippery Mind (Ex): This abil- ated boast on the part 
lity represents the rogue’s abil- of certain sorcerers or 
ity to wriggle free from mag- _ envious gossip on the part of those who 
ical effects that would lack the sorcerer’s gift. 
otherwise control or compel her. If a rogue with slippery Q Adventures: The typical sorcerer 


tain in the use of certain skills that she can 
use them reliably even under adverse con- 


mind is affected by an enchantment spell or effect and fails adventures in order to improve his 
her saving throw, she can attempt it again 1 round later at the abilities. Only by testing his limits 
same DC. She gets only this one extra chance to succeed on can he surpass them. A sorcerer’s power | 


her saving throw. a h is inborn—part of his soul. Developing this , 

Feat: A rogue may gain a bonus feat in place ofaspe- ge Mee) power is a quest in itself for many sorcer- | 

cial ability. P ¢ $ ers, regardless of how they wish to use| 

As 3 their power. | 

Halfling Roque Starting Package “Some good sorcerers are driven by! 

oE me Leather (+2 AC, speed 20 ft., 7-1/2 Ib.). the need to prove themselves. Marked as different by their power, | 
| Weapons: Short sword (1d4, crit 19-20/x2, 1 1b., light, pierc- they seek to win places in society and to prove themselves to | 
ing). l others. Evil sorcerers also feel themselves set apart from others— 


Light crossbow (1d6, crit 19-20/x2, range inc. 80 ft., 2 lb... [apart and above. They adventure to gain power over those they 
piercing). | look down upon. _ 5 I À 
4 


TABLE 3—16: THE SORCERER 


Base Fort Ref Will 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 
Ist +0 +0 +0 +2 Summon familiar 
2nd +] +0 +0 +3 
3rd +l +l +1 +3 
4th +2 +] +] +4 
5th +2 +1 +1 +4 
6th +3 +2 +2 +5 
7th +3 +2 +2 +5 
8th +4 +2 +2 +6 
9th +4 +3 +3 +6 
10th +5 +3 +3 +7 
11th +5 +3 +3 +7 
12th +6/+1 +4 +4 +8 
13th +6/+1 +4 +4 +8 
14th +7/+2 +4 +4 +9 
15th +7/+2 +5 +5 +9 
16th +8/+3 +5 +5 +10 
17th +8/+3 +5 +5 +10 
18th +9/+4 +6 +6 +11 
19th +9/+4 +6 +6 +11 
20th +10/+5 +6 +6 +12 


Characteristics: Sorcerers cast spells through innate power 
rather than through careful training and study. Their magic is 
Lintuitive rather than logical. Sorcerers know fewer spells than 
_wizards do and acquire powerful spells more slowly than wiz- 


Spells per Day ———___ 
4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 


0 Ist 2nd 3rd 

5 3 

6 4 

6 5 

6 6 3 

6 6 4 

6 6 5 3 

6 6 6 4 

6 6 6 5 3 

6 6 6 6 4 

6 6 6 6 5 3 

6 6 6 6 6 4 

6 6 6 6 6 5 3 — — — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 4 — — — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 5 3 — — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 — — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 3 — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 — 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 5 3 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 
6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 


ards, but they can cast spells more often and haye no need to 
select and prepare their spells ahead of time. Sorcerers do not 


specialize in certain schools of magic the way wizards some-| 
times do. 


FAMILIARS 

Familiars are magically linked to their masters. In some sense, the 
familiar and the master are practically one being. That’s why, for 
example, the master can cast a personal range spell on a familiar even 
though he can normally cast such a spell only on himself. A familiar is 
a normal animal that gains new powers and becomes a magical beast 
when summoned to service by a sorcerer or wizard. It retains the 
appearance, Hit Dice, base attack bonus, base save bonuses, skills, 
and feats of the normal animal it once was, but it is treated as a magi- 
cal beast instead of an animal for the purpose of any effect that 
depends on its type. Only a normal, unmodified animal may become 
a familiar. Thus, a druid/sorcerer can’t use her animal companion as 
a familiar. 

A familiar also grants special abilities to its master (a sorcerer or 
wizard), as given on the table below. These special abilities apply only 
when the master and familiar are within 1 mile of each other. 

Levels of different classes that are entitled to familiars (such as 
sorcerer and wizard) stack for the purpose of determining any familiar 
abilities that depend on the master’s level. 


Familiar Special 

Bat Master gains a +3 bonus on Listen checks 

Cat Master gains a +3 bonus on Move Silently checks 
Hawk Master gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in bright light 
Lizard Master gains a +3 bonus on Climb checks 

Owl Master gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in shadows 


Rat Master gains a +2 bonus on Fortitude saves 


Raven! Master gains a +3 bonus on Appraise checks 
Snake? Master gains a +3 bonus on Bluff checks 
Toad Master gains +3 hit points 

Weasel Master gains a +2 bonus on Reflex saves 


1 A raven familiar can speak one language of its master’s choice as a 
supernatural ability. 
2 Tiny viper. 


Familiar Basics: Use the basic statistics for a creature of the famil- 
iar's kind, as given in the Monster Manual, but make the following 
changes: 

Hit Dice: For the purpose of effects related to number of Hit Dice, 
use the master’s character level or the familiar’s normal HD total, 
whichever is higher. 

Hit Points: The familiar has one-half the master’s total hit points 
(not including temporary hit points), rounded down, regardless of its 
actual Hit Dice. For example, at 2nd level, Hennet has 9 hit points, so 
his familiar has 4. 

Attacks: Use the master’s base attack bonus, as calculated from all his 
classes. Use the familiar’s Dexterity or Strength modifier, whichever is 
greater, to get the familiar’s melee attack bonus with natural weapons. 
Damage equals that of a normal creature of the familiar’s kind. 

Saving Throws: For each saving throw, use either the familiar’s base 
save bonus (Fortitude +2, Reflex +2, Will +0) or the master’s (as calcu- 
lated from all his classes), whichever is better. The familiar uses its 
own ability modifiers to saves, and it doesn’t share any of the other 
bonuses that the master might have on saves (from magic items or 
feats, for example). 

Skills: For each skill in which either the master or the familiar has 
ranks, use either the normal skill ranks for an animal of that type or the 
master’s skill ranks, whichever are better. In either case, the familiar 
uses its own ability modifiers. Regardless of a familiar’s total skill 
modifiers, some skills (such as Craft) may remain beyond the familiar’s 
ability to use. 


Familiar Ability Descriptions: All familiars have special abilities (or 
impart abilities to their masters) depending on the master’s combined 
level in classes that grant familiars, as shown on the table below. The 
abilities given on the table are cumulative. 


Natural Armor Adj.: The number noted here is an improvement to 
the familiar’s existing natural armor bonus. It represents the preter- 
natural toughness of a spellcaster’s familiar. 


| 


Since sorcerers gain their powers without undergoing the years 
of rigorous study that wizards go through, they don’t have the 
background of arcane knowledge than most wizards have. How- 
ever, they do have more time to learn fighting skills, and they are 
proficient with simple weapons. | 

Alignment: For a sorcerer, magic is an intuitive art, not a sci- | 

Lence. Sorcery favors the free, chaotic, creative spirit over the disci- | 
\plined mind, so sorcerers tend slightly toward chaos over law. | 
_ Religion: Some sorcerers favor Boccob (god of magic), while 
others revere Wee Jas (goddess of death and magic). However, | 
| many sorcerers follow other deities, or none at all. (Wizards typi- | 
ically learn to follow Boccob or Wee Jas from their mentors, but 
_most sorcerers are self-taught, with no master to induct them into 
a religion.) = 
Background: Sorcerers develop rudimentary powers at 
puberty. Their first spells are incomplete, spontaneous, uncon- 
„trolled, and sometimes dangerous. A household with a budding 
,sorcerer in it may be troubled by strange sounds or lights, which | 
| can create the impression that the place is haunted. Eventually, the | 
| young sorcerer understands the power that he has been wielding | 
unintentionally. From that point on, he can begin practicing and | 
improving his powers. 

Sometimes a sorcerer is fortunate enough to come under the 
care of an older, more experienced sorcerer, someone who can 
help him understand and use his new powers. More often, how- 
ever, sorcerers are on their own, feared by erstwhile friends and 

misunderstood by family. 
Sorcerers have no sense of identity as a group. Unlike wizards, 


they gain little by sharing their knowledge and have no strong, 
incentive to work together. | 
Races: Most sorcerers are humans or half-elves, but the innate | 
talent for sorcery is unpredictable, and it can show up in any of the | 
{common races. 
| Arcane spellcasters from savage lands or from among the brutal 
\humanoids are more likely to be sorcerers than wizards. Kobolds 
are especially likely to take up this path, and they are fierce, if inar- 
ticulate, proponents of the “blood of the dragons” theory. 

Other Classes: Sorcerers find that they have the most in; 
{common with members of other largely self-taught classes, such | 
as druids and rogues. They sometimes find themselves at odds 
with members of the more disciplined classes, such as paladins 
and monks. Since they cast the same spells as wizards but do so in, 
a different way, they sometimes find themselves in competition | 

with wizards. 
| Role: A sorcerer tends to define his role based on his spell 
selection. A sorcerer who focuses on damage-dealing spells. 
becomes a center of the party’s offensive power. Another may rely , 
Lon more subtle magics, such as charms and illusions, and thus take 
a quieter role. A party with a sorcerer should strongly consider , 
including a second spellcaster, such as a bard, cleric, druid, or even. 
a wizard, to make up for the sorcerer’s lack of versatility. Since a 
sorcerer often has a powerful presence that gives him a way with 
people, he may serve as the “face” for an adventuring party, negoti- 
ating, bargaining, and speaking for others. The sorcerer’s spells. 
often help him sway others or gain information, so he makes an | 
excellent spy or diplomat for an adventuring group. $ 


+ 


——— t 


Int: The familiars Intelligence score. Familiars are as smart as 
people, though not necessarily as smart as smart people. 

Alertness (Ex): The presence of the familiar sharpens its master’s 
senses. While a familiar is within arm’s reach, the master gains the 
Alertness feat (page 89). 

Improved Evasion (Ex): When subjected to an attack that normally 
allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, a familiar takes no 
damage if it makes a successful saving throw and half damage even if 
the saving throw fails. 

Share Spells: At the master’s option, he may have any spell (but not 
any spell-like ability) he casts on himself also affect his familiar. The 
familiar must be within 5 feet at the time of casting to receive the bene- 
fit. If the spell or effect has a duration other than instantaneous, it 
stops affecting the familiar if it moves farther than 5 feet away and will 
not affect the familiar again even if it returns to the master before the 
duration expires. Additionally, the master may cast a spell with a target 
of “You” on his familiar (as a touch range spell) instead of on himself. 
A master and his familiar can share spells even if the spells normally 
do not affect creatures of the familiar’s type (magical beast). 

Empathic Link (Su): The master has an empathic link with his familiar 
out to a distance of up to 1 mile. The master cannot see through the famil- 
iar’s eyes, but they can communicate empathically. Because of the limited 
nature of the link, only general emotional content (such as fear, hunger, 
happiness, curiosity) can be communicated. Note that the low Intelligence 
of a low-level master’s familiar limits what the creature is able to commu- 
nicate or understand, and even intelligent familiars see the world differ- 
ently from humans, so misunderstandings are always possible. 

Because of this empathic link, the master has the same connection 
to an item or place that his familiar does. For instance, if his familiar 
has seen a room, the master can teleport into that room as if he has 
seen it too. 

Deliver Touch Spells (Su): If the master is 3rd level or higher, a famil- 
iar can deliver touch spells for him. If the master and the familiar are 
in contact at the time the master casts a touch spell, he can designate 
his familiar as the “toucher.” The familiar can then deliver the touch 


spell just as the master could. As usual, if the master casts another 
spell before the touch is delivered, the touch spell dissipates. 

Speak with Master (Ex): If the master is 5th level or higher, a familiar 
and the master can communicate verbally as if they were using a 
common language. Other creatures do not understand the communi- 
cation without magical help. 

Speak with Animals of Its Kind (Ex): If the master is 7th level or higher, 
a familiar can communicate with animals of approximately the same 
kind as itself (including dire varieties): bats with bats, rats with 
rodents, cats with felines, hawks and owls and ravens with birds, 
lizards and snakes with reptiles, toads with amphibians, weasels with 
similar creatures of the family Mustelidae (weasels, minks, polecats, 
ermines, skunks, wolverines, and badgers). Such communication is 
limited by the intelligence of the conversing creatures. 

Spell Resistance (Ex): If the master is 11th level or higher, a familiar 
gains spell resistance equal to the master’s level + 5. To affect the 
familiar with a spell, another spellcaster must get a result on a caster 
level check (1d20 + caster level; see Spell Resistance, page 177) that 
equals or exceeds the familiar’s spell resistance. 

Scry on Familiar (Sp): If the master is 13th level or higher, he may scry 
on his familiar (as if casting the scrying spell) once per day. 


Master Natural 

Class Level Armor Adj. Int Special 

1st-2nd +1 6 Alertness, improved evasion, 
share spells, empathic link 

3rd—4th +2 7 Deliver touch spells 

5th-6th +3 8 Speak with master 

7th-8th +4 9 Speak with animals of its kind 

9th-10th +5 10 = 

11th-12th +6 11 Spell resistance 

13th-14th +7 12 Scry on familiar 

15th-16th +8 13 = 

17th-18th +9 14 = 

19th—20th +10 15 E 


G 


Class Skills 


AME RULE INFORMATION 


Sorcerers have the following game statistics. 
Abilities: Charisma determines how powerful a spell a sorcerer 
can cast, how many spells he can cast per day, and how hard those 
spells are to resist (see Spells, below). Like a wizard, a sorcerer ben- | 
efits from high Dexterity and Constitution scores. 
Alignment: Any. 
Hit Die: d4. 


(The sorcerer’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are | 
| Bluff (Cha), Concentration (Con), Craft (Int), Knowledge (arcana) 
(Int), Profession (Wis), and Spellcraft (Int). See Chapter 4: Skills 


for skill descriptions. 
Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Additional Level: 2 + Int modifier. 


TABLE 3-17: SORCERER SPELLS KNOWN 


li Level 


t 
| 9th 
110th 
11th 
112th 
‚13th 
14th 
15th 


_ 


Wan aA A A G aA A aA l GA a G aA A eR BWWNYD YH 


2nd 3rd_ 4th 5th 6th 


+ 


7th 8th 9th I 
Ist 
2nd 
3rd 
4th 
5th 
6th 
7th 
8th 


16th 
17th 
18th 
19th 
20th 


wownvowonwvowowowvoO wo WOU WOWNNAAHDUUN LS 
lan fa o o e a BRWWND 

BRR HHP HHP HHP HRWWNYD 

BRR PAR HHP RWWNYD — 
RRR PR RWWNDND — 

ww wWHNwwnn— | 

ww wwnn — | 


Class Features 


All of the following are class features of the sorcerer. 

Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Sorcerers are proficient 
with all simple weapons. They are not proficient with any type of 
armor or shield. Armor of any type interferes with a sorcerer’s 
arcane gestures, which can cause his spells with somatic compo- 


‚nents to fail. 


+ 


Spells: A sorcerer casts arcane spells (the same type of spells 


iavailable to bards and wizards), which are drawn primarily from 
the sorcerer/wizard spell list (page 192). He can cast any spell he 


knows without preparing it ahead of time, the way a wizard or a 
cleric must (see below). 

To learn or cast a spell, a sorcerer must have a Charisma score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Cha 10 for 0-level spells, Cha 
11 for 1st-level spells, and so forth). The Difficulty Class for a 
saving throw against a sorcerer’s spell is 10 + the spell level + the 
sorcerer’s Charisma modifier. =~ 

Like other spellcasters, a sorcerer can cast only a certain 


_number of spells of each spell level per day. His base daily spell 


¿allotment is given on Table 3-16: The Sorcerer. In addition, he 


seria bonus spells per day if he has a high Charisma score (see 


ble 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). 


___A sorcerer’s selection of spells is extremely limited. A sorcerer 


‚begins play knowing four 0-level spells (also called cantrips) and 
two 1st-level spells of your choice. At each new sorcerer level, he | 
gains one or more new spells, as indicated on Table 3—17: Sorcerer | 


+—_}+-+_+—++ 


Spells Known ———_ i 


4e 


Spells Known. (Unlike spells per day, the number of spells a sor- , 
cerer knows is not affected by his Charisma score; the numbers on | 
Table 3—17 are fixed.) These new spells can be common spells | 
chosen from the sorcerer/wizard spell list (page 192), or they can | 


be unusual spells that the sorcerer has gained some understanding 
lof by study. For example, a sorcerer with a scroll or spellbook 
\detailing an unusual sorcerer/wizard spell (one not on the sor- 


cerer/wizard spell list in this book) could select that spell as one of 
his new spells for attaining a new level, provided that it is of the , 


‚right spell level. The sorcerer can't use this method of spell acqui- | 
l sition to learn spells at a faster rate, however. 


Upon reaching 4th level, and at every even- -numbered sorcerer 
level after that (6th, 8th, and so on), a sorcerer can choose to learn 
a new spell in place of one he already knows. In effect, the sor-_ 
cerer “loses” the old spell in exchange for the new one. The new | 
spell’s level must be the same as that of the spell being exchanged, 


Land it must be at least two levels lower than the highest-level sor- 
icerer spell the sorcerer can cast. For instance, upon reaching 4th , 
level, a sorcerer could trade in a single 0-level spell (two spell. 
levels below the highest-level sorcerer spell he can cast, which is 


2nd) for a different 0-level spell. At 6th level, he could trade in a 
single 0-level or 1st-level spell (since he now can cast 3rd-level , 
sorcerer spells) for a different spell of the same level. A sorcerer 
may swap only a single spell at any given level, and must choose 
whether or not to swap the spell at the same time that he gains 
new spells known for the level. 

Unlike a wizard or a cleric, a sorcerer need not prepare his} 

¡spells in advance. He can cast any spell he knows at any time, 
assuming he has not yet used up his spells per day for that spell | 
level. For example, at 1st level, the sorcerer Hennet can cast four | 
1st-level spells per day—three for being 1st level (see Table 3-16: | 
The Sorcerer), plus one thanks to his Charisma score of 15 (see. 
Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). However, | 
he knows only two 1st-level spells: magic missile and sleep (see 
Table 3-17: Sorcerer Spells Known). Thus, on any given day, he 
can cast some combination of the two spells a total of four times. 
He does not have to decide ahead of time which spells he'll cast. 

Familiar: A sorcerer can obtain a familiar. Doing so takes 24 
hours and uses up magical materials that cost 100 gp. A familiar is 
a magical beast that resembles a small animal and is unusually 
tough and intelligent. The creature serves as a companion and 
servant. 

The sorcerer chooses the kind of familiar he gets. As the sor- 
cerer advances in level, his familiar also increases in power. 

If the familiar dies or is dismissed by the sorcerer, the sorcerer 
must attempt a DC 15 Fortitude saving throw. Failure means he 
loses 200 experience points per sorcerer level; success reduces the 
loss to one-half that amount. However, a sorcerer’s experience 
point total can never go below 0 as the result of a familiar’s demise 
or dismissal. For example, suppose that Hennet is a 3rd-level sor- 
cerer with 3,230 XP when his owl familiar is killed by a bugbear. 
Hennet makes a successful saving throw, so he loses 300 XP, drop- 
ping him below 3,000 XP and back to 2nd level (see the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for rules for losing levels). A slain or dismissed 
familiar cannot be replaced for a year and day. A slain familiar can 
be raised from the dead just as a character can be, and it does not 
lose a level or a Constitution point when this happy event occurs. | 

A character with more than one class that grants a familiar may | 
have only one familiar at a time. a 


Armor: None (speed 30 ft.). ae 

Weapons: Shortspear (1d6, crit x2, range inc. c. 20 ft., 3 1b., one-| 
handed, piercing). 
| Light crossbow (1d8, crit 19-20/x2, range inc. 80 ft., 4 1b., 
\piercing). 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 3 + Int modifier. 


Skill Ranks Ability Armor Check Penalty 
Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con = — 
Knowledge (arcana) 4 Int — 

Bluff 4 Cha =] 

Gather Information (cc) 2 Cha — 
. Diplomacy (cc) 2 Cha — 
| Hide (cc) 2 Dex 0 
| Move Silently (cc) 2 Dex 0 


Feat: Toughness. 

__Bonus Feat: Combat Casting. 

Spells Known: 0-level spells—detect magic, ghost sound, light, 
read magic. 

1st-level spells—magic missile, sleep. 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 


„sack, and flint and steel. Hooded lantern, five pints of oil. Spell 
component pouch. Case with 10 crossbow bolts. 


+ 


— "WIT 


Gold: 3d4 gp. 


A few unintelligible words and fleeting gestures carry more power 
than a battleaxe, when they are the words and gestures of a wizard. 
These simple acts make magic seem easy, but they only hint at the 
time the wizard must spend poring over her spellbook preparing 


Leach spell for casting, and the years before that spent in appren- 
\ticeship to learn the arts of magic. 


+ 


Wizards depend on intensive study to create their magic. They 


l examine musty old tomes, debate magical theory with their peers, 


Land practice minor magics whenever they can. For a wizard, magic 
Lis not a talent but a difficult, rewarding art. 
Adventures: Wizards conduct their adventures with caution 


land forethought. When prepared, they can use their spells to dev- 


astating effect. When caught by surprise, they are vulnerable. 
They seek knowledge, power, and the resources to conduct their 
studies. They may also have any of the noble or ignoble motiva- 
tions that other adventurers have. 

Characteristics: The wizard’s strength is her spells. Everything | 


else is secondary. She learns new spells as she experiments and | 
grows in experience, and she can also learn them from other wiz- 


ards. In addition to learning new spells, a wizard can, over time, 


TABLE 3—18: THE WIZARD 


Base Fort Ref Will 
Level Attack Bonus Save Save Save Special 
Ist +0 +0 +0 +2 Summon familiar, 
| Scribe Scroll 
2nd +1 +0 +0 +3 
3rd +1 +1 +1 +3 
4th +2 +1 +1 +4 
5th +2 +1 +1 +4 Bonus feat 
6th +3 +2 +2 +5 
7th +3 +2 +2 +5 
8th +4 +2 +2 +6 
9th +4 +3 +3 +6 
10th +5 +3 +3 +7 Bonus feat 
11th +5 +3 +3 +7 
12th +6/+1 +4 +4 +8 
13th +6/+1 +4 +4 +8 
14th +7 /+2 +4 +4 +9 
15th +7/+2 +5 +5 +9 Bonus feat 
16th +8/+3 +5 +5 +10 
17th +8/+3 i5 +5 +10 
18th +9/+4 +6 +6 +11 
19th +9/+4 +6 +6 +11 
20th +10/+5 +6 +6 +12 Bonus feat 


|doddering hermit, she nevertheless can't deny the rustic’s iden- 


learn to manipulate her spells so they go farther, work better, or, 
are improved in some other way. | 

Some wizards prefer to specialize in a certain type of magic. | 
Specialization makes a wizard more powerful in her chosen field, | 


{but it denies her access to some of the spells that lie outside that 
Ifield. (See School Specialization, page 57.) 


Like a sorcerer, a wizard can call a familiar—a small, magical 
animal companion that serves her. For some wizards, their famil- 
iars are their only true friends. 

Alignment: Overall, wizards show a slight tendency toward | 


llaw over chaos because the study of magic rewards those who are. 


disciplined. Illusionists and transmuters, however, are masters 
of deception and change, respectively. They favor chaos over law. 
Religion: Wizards commonly revere Boccob (god of magic)... 
Some, especially necromancers or simply more misanthropic wiz- | 
ards, prefer Wee Jas (goddess of death and magic). Evil necromancers 
Lare known to worship Nerull (god of death). Wizards in general are 
{more devoted to their studies than to their spiritual sides. 
Background: Wizards recognize each other as comrades or, 


itivals. Even wizards from very different cultures or magical tra- 


ditions have much in common because they all conform to the 
same laws of magic. Unlike fighters or rogues, wizards see them- | 
selves as members of a distinct, if diverse, group. In civilized 
lands where they study in academies, schools, or guilds, wizards 
also identify themselves and others according to membership in 
these formal organizations. But while a guild magician may look 
down her nose at a rustic wizard who learned his arts from al 
t 
tity as a wizard. $ 

Races: Humans take to magic for any of various reasons: curios- | 
ity, ambition, lust for power, or just personal inclination. Human | 
wizards tend to be practical innovators, creating new spells or | 
using old spells creatively. | 

Elves are enthralled by magic, and many of them become wiz- 
ards for love of the art. Elf wizards see themselves as artists, and 
they hold magic in high regard as a wondrous mystery, as opposed 
to the more pragmatic human wizards, who see magic more as a 
set of tools or tricks. 

Illusion magic comes so simply to gnomes that becoming an 
illusionist is just natural for the brighter and more talented ones. 
Gnome wizards who don't specialize in the school of illusion are 
rare, but they don't suffer under any special stigma. 


Spells per Day 


0 Ist 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th. 
3 1 | 
4 2 

4 2 il 

4 3 2 

4 3 2 1 

4 3 3 2 

4 4 3 2 1 

4 4 3 3 2 

4 4 4 3 2 1 

4 4 4 3 3 2 

4 4 4 4 3 2 1 SS 
4 4 4 4 3 3 2 Se 
4 4 4 4 4 3 2 1 => = 
4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 Sas 
4 4 4 4 4 4 3 2 il 

4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 —: 
4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 2 1 

4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 

4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 

4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 } 


Half-elf wizards feel both the elf’s attraction to magic and the 
human's drive to conquer and understand. Some of the most pow- 
erful wizards are half-elves. 

Dwarf and halfling wizards are rare because their societies don't 
encourage the study of magic. Half-orc wizards are rare because 
few half-orcs have the brains necessary for wizardry. 

Drow (evil subterranean elves) often take up wiz- 
ardry, but wizards are quite rare among the savage 
humanoids. A 

Other Classes: Wizards prefer to work 
with members of other classes. They love to 
cast their spells from behind strong fighters, to 
“magic up” rogues and send them out to scout, 
and to rely on the divine healing of clerics. 
They may find members of certain classes 
(such as sorcerers, rogues, and bards) to be not 
quite serious enough, but they're not judg- 
mental. 

Role: The wizard’s role depends somewhat on 
her spell selection, but most wizards share cer- 
tain similarities in function. They are among the 
most offensively minded of the spellcasting 
classes, with a broad range of options available M 
for neutralizing enemies. Some wizards pro- J» 
vide great support to their comrades by way of ff 
their spells, while others may focus on diy-_ | A 
ination or other facets of wizardry. W.Y 


i) 
GAME RULE / ‘a | 
INFORMATION / ye 
Wizards have the following game / 
statistics. 

Abilities: Intelligence deter- {£ 
mines how powerful a spell a 
wizard can cast, how many ~ 
spells she can cast, and how hard those spells 
are to resist (see Spells, below). A high Dex- 
terity score is helpful for a wizard, who typ- 
ically wears little or no armor, because it 
provides her with a bonus to Armor Class. 
A good Constitution score gives a 
wizard extra hit points, a resource 
that she is otherwise very 


é 


Class Skills 
The wizard’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Con- 
centration (Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Knowledge 
(all skills, taken individually) (Int), Profession (Wis), and Spell- 
craft (Int). See Chapter 4: Skills for 
_ a skill descriptions. 
n $ Skill Points at 1st Level: (2 + Int 
modifier) x 4. 
Skill Points at Each Addi- 
tional Level: 2 + Int modifier. 


Mialee 


Class Features 
All of the following are class features 
of the wizard. 

» Weapon and Armor Proficiency: 
Wizards are proficient with the club, 

dagger, heavy crossbow, light crossbow, 

and quarterstaff, but not with any type 

| of armor or shield. Armor of any type 
interferes with a wizard’s movements, 
which can cause her spells with somatic 
components to fail. 

Spells: A wizard casts arcane spells (the 
same type of spells available to sorcerers 

and bards), which are drawn from the sor- 
cerer/wizard spell list (page 192). A wizard 
must choose and prepare her spells ahead 
of time (see below). 

To learn, prepare, or cast a spell, the 
wizard must have an Intelligence score 
equal to at least 10 + the spell level (Int 10 
for 0-level spells, Int 11 for 1st-level spells, 
and so forth). The Difficulty 
Class for a saving throw 
against a wizard’s spell is 10 + the 
spell level + the wizard’s Intelligence 

modifier. 

Like other spellcasters, a 
wizard can cast only a certain 
number of spells of each spell 
level per day. Her base daily 
spell allotment is given on 
Table 3-18: The Wizard. In addi- 
tion, she receives bonus spells per day if she has a 
high Intelligence score (see Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and 


low on. — => = 

Alignment: Any. —— 

Hit Die: d4. Bonus Spells, page 8). 
ARCANE SPELLS AND ARMOR 


Wizards and sorcerers do not know how to wear armor effectively. 
If desired, they can wear armor anyway (though they'll be clumsy in 
it), or they can gain training in the proper use of armor (with the 
various Armor Proficiency feats—light, medium, and heavy—and 
the Shield Proficiency feat), or they can multiclass to add a class 
that grants them armor proficiency (see Multiclass Characters later 
in this chapter). Even if a wizard or sorcerer is wearing armor with 
which he or she is proficient, however, it might still interfere with 
spellcasting. 

Most characters have a difficult time casting arcane spells while 
wearing armor or carrying shields (see Arcane Spell Failure, page 
122). The armor restricts the complicated gestures that they must 
make while casting any spell that has a somatic component (most 
do). To find the arcane spell failure chance for a wizard or sorcerer 
wearing a certain type of armor, see Table 7-6: Armor and Shields 
(page 123). 


By contrast, bards not only know how to wear light armor effectively, 
but they can also ignore the arcane spell failure chance for such armor. 
However, they too wear heavier armor ineffectively and must either 
learn to wear heavier armor via the appropriate Armor Proficiency feat 
(medium or heavy) or add a class (such as fighter) that grants them 
such proficiency as a class feature. A bard wearing armor heavier than 
light or using any type of shield incurs the normal arcane spell failure 
chance, even if he becomes proficient with that armor. 

If a spell doesn’t have a somatic component, an arcane spellcaster 
can cast it with no problem while wearing armor. Such spells can also 
be cast even if the caster’s hands are bound or if he or she is grap- 
pling (although Concentration checks still apply normally). Also, the 
metamagic feat Still Spell allows a spellcaster to prepare or cast a 
spell at one spell level higher than normal without the somatic 
component. This also provides a way to cast a spell while wearing 
armor without risking arcane spell failure. See Chapter 5: Feats for 
more about metamagic feats such as Still Spell. 


PR 
oat sah LG eee psig — 


— Om ae EE, 
hy on. Se SE eRe Aaa ome Pesan he: 
E ie aN Sha AR at gn om aa Ae ` . 


FFT 


Unlike a bard or sorcerer, a wizard 
may know any number of spells (see 
Writing a New Spell into a Spell- 
book, page 179). She must choose and 
prepare her spells ahead of time by 
getting a good night's sleep and spend- 
ing 1 hour studying her spellbook. 
While studying, the wizard decides 
which spells to prepare (see Preparing 
Wizard Spells, page 177). 

Bonus Languages: A wizard may 
substitute Draconic for one of the bonus 
languages available to the character 
because of her race (see Chapter 2: Races). 
Many ancient tomes of magic are writ- £ 
ten in Draconic, and apprentice wizards ==> gg 
often learn it as part of their studies. PAi -i 

Familiar: A wizard can obtain a familiar 
in exactly the same manner as a sorcerer can. See the 
sorcerer description and the accompanying 
Familiars sidebar for details. 

Scribe Scroll: At 1st level, a wizard gains 
Scribe Scroll as a bonus feat. This feat enables 
her to create magic scrolls (see Scribe Scroll, page 99, and 
Creating Magic Items, page 282 of the Dun- 
geon Master’s Guide). 

Bonus Feats: At 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th 
level, a wizard gains a bonus feat. At each 
such opportunity, she can choose a 
metamagic feat, an item creation feat, 
or Spell Mastery. The wizard must 
still meet all prerequisites for a bonus 
feat, including caster level mini- 
mums. (See Chapter 5 for descrip- 
tions of feats and their prerequisites.) 

These bonus feats are in addition to 
the feat that a character of any class 
gets every three levels (as given on Table 


Nebin 
[gnome 
illusionist] 


* a se f 
SE ee eT o >ar Ecg tas 


3—2; Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). The 
wizard is not limited to the categories of item creation feats, meta- 
magic feats, or Spell Mastery when choosing these feats. 
Spellbooks: A wizard must study her spellbook each day to 
prepare her spells (see Preparing Wizard Spells, 
page 177). She cannot prepare any spell not 
recorded in her spellbook, except for read magic, 
| which all wizards can prepare from memory. 
A wizard begins play with a spellbook containing 
all 0-level wizard spells (except those from her 
prohibited school or schools, if any; see School 
Specialization, page 57) plus three 1st-level 
spells of your choice. For each point of 
Intelligence bonus the wizard has (see 
Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus 

Spells, page 8), the spellbook holds 

one additional 1st-level spell of 

your choice. At each new 

7” wizard level, she gains two new 

=> spells of any spell level or levels 
\ _ that she can cast (based on her new 
\¥ SS) wizard level) for her spellbook. For 
A example, when a wizard attains 

à at \ sth level, she can cast 3rd-level 
hA spells. At this point, she can add two 
new 3rd-level spells to her spellbook, 

or one 2nd-leyel spell and one 3rd- 

Jatah level spell, or any combination of 
Z000 two spells between 1st and 3rd 

level. At any time, a wizard can 

also add spells found in other wiz- 

ards’ spellbooks to her own (see 

Adding Spells to a Wizard’s Spellbook, 
page 178). 


Em (Je 
Lf a 


SCHOOL SPECIALIZATION 

A school is one of eight groupings of spells, each defined by a common 
theme, such as illusion or necromancy. If desired, a wizard may 
specialize in one school of magic (see below). Specialization allows a 
wizard to cast extra spells from her chosen school, but she then never 
learns to cast spells from some other schools. Essentially, the wizard 
gains exceptional mastery over a single school by neglecting the study 
of other schools. 

A specialist wizard can prepare one additional spell of her specialty 
school per spell level each day. She also gains a +2 bonus on Spellcraft 
checks to learn the spells of her chosen school (see Adding Spells to a 
Wizard’s Spellbook, page 178). 

The wizard must choose whether to specialize and, if she does so, 
choose her specialty at 1st level. At this time, she must also give up 
two other schools of magic (unless she chooses to specialize in 
divination; see below), which become her prohibited schools. For 
instance, if she chooses to specialize in conjuration, she might decide 
to give up enchantment and necromancy, or evocation and transmu- 
tation. A wizard can never give up divination to fulfill this requirement. 
Spells of the prohibited school or schools are not available to the 
wizard, and she can’t even cast such spells from scrolls or fire them 
from wands. She may not change either her specialization or her 
prohibited schools later. 

The eight schools of arcane magic are abjuration, conjuration, 
divination, enchantment, evocation, illusion, necromancy, and trans- 


mutation. Spells that do not fall into any of these schools are called 
universal spells. 
Abjuration: Spells that protect, block, or banish. An abjuration 
specialist is called an abjurer. 
Conjuration: Spells that bring creatures or materials to the caster. A 
conjuration specialist is called a conjurer. 
Divination: Spells that reveal information. A divination specialist is 
called a diviner. Unlike the other specialists, a diviner must give up only 
one other school. 
Enchantment: Spells that imbue the recipient with some property or 
grant the caster power over another being. An enchantment specialist 
is called an enchanter. 
Evocation: Spells that manipulate energy or create something from 
nothing. An evocation specialist is called an evoker. 
Illusion: Spells that alter perception or create false images. An illu- 
sion specialist is called an illusionist. 
Necromancy: Spells that manipulate, create, or destroy life or life 
force. A necromancy specialist is called a necromancer. 
Transmutation: Spells that transform the recipient physically or 
change its properties in a more subtle way. A transmutation specialist 
is called a transmuter. 
Universal: Not a school, but a category for spells that all wizards 
can learn. A wizard cannot select universal as a specialty school or as 
a prohibited school. Only a limited number of spells fall into this 
category. 


LEVEL ADVANCEMENT 


Elf Wizard Starting Package 


Armor: None (speed 30 ft.). 

Weapons: Quarterstaff (1d6/1d6, crit x2, 4 lb., two-handed, 
bludgeoning). 

Light crossbow (1d8, crit 19— 20/X2, range inc. 80 ft., 4 Ib... 
piercing). L 

Skill Selection: Pick a number of skills equal to 2 + Int modi- } 
fier. | 


i T 
Skill Ability Armor Check Penalty | 


Ranks 
| Spellcraft 4 Int — 
Concentration 4 Con = 
, Knowledge (arcana) 4 Int — 
Decipher Script 4 Int — 
Hide (cc) 2 Dex 0 
Move Silently (cc) 2 Dex 0 
, Search (cc) 2 Int — 
¿Spot (cc) 2 Wis — 


Feat: Toughness. 

School Specialization: None. | 

Spellbook: All 0-level spells, plus charm person, summon monster 
I, and sleep, plus one of these spells of your choice per point of 
Intelligence bonus (if any): cause fear, color spray, magic missile, and 
silent image. 

Gear: Backpack with waterskin, one day’s trail rations, bedroll, 
sack, and flint and steel. Ten candles, map case, three pages of 
| parchment, ink, inkpen. Spell component pouch, spellbook. Case 
with 10 crossbow bolts. 

i Gold: 3d6 gp. 


f 


+ 


$ h 


(Experience points (XP) measure how much your character has 
learned and how much he or she has grown in personal power. 
Your character earns XP by defeating monsters and other 
opponents. The DM assigns XP to the characters at the end of 
each adventure based on what they have accomplished. Char-, 
acters accumulate XP from one adventure to another. When a| 
character earns enough XP, he or she attains a new character, 
level (see Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent Bene-. 
fits, page 22). 

Advancing a Level: When your -character's XP total reaches at 
least the minimum XP needed for a new character level (see 
Table 3-2), he or she “goes up a level.” For example, when Tordek 
obtains 1,000 or more XP, he becomes a 2nd-level character. As 
soon as he accumulates a total of 3,000 XP or higher (2,000 more 

than he had when he gained 2nd level), he reaches 3rd level. 

{Going up a level provides the character with several immediate 

benefits (see below). 

___A character can advance only one level at a time. If, for some 
extraordinary reason, a character’s XP reward from a single 
adventure would be enough to advance two or more levels at 
once, he or she instead advances one level and gains just enough 
XP to be 1 XP short of the next level. Any excess experience 
points are not retained. For example, if Tordek has 5,000 XP 
(1,000 points short of 4th level) and gains 6,000 more, he would 
normally be at 11,000 XP—enough for 5th level. Instead, he 
attains 4th level, and his XP total stands at 9,999. 

Training and Practice: Characters spend time between 

adventures training, studying, or otherwise practicing their 
skills. This work consolidates what they learn on adventures and 

bee them in top form. If, for some reason, a character can't 
| practice or train for an extended time, the DM may reduce XP 
awards or even cause the character to lose experience points. 


+- 


Each character class description includes a table that shows how] | 
the class features and statistics increase as a member of that class | 
advances in level. When your character attains a new level, make | 
ithese changes. 
| 1. Choose Class: A typical character has only one class, and 
¿when he or she attains a new level, it is a new level in that class. 
If your character has more than one class or wants to acquire a 
new class, you choose which class goes up one level. The other. 
‚class or classes stay at the previous level. (See Multiclass Char- | 
lacters, page 59.) 

2. Base Attack Bonus: The base attack bonus for xr fighters, bar- 
barians, rangers, and paladins increases by 1 every level. The base 
attack bonus for other characters increases at a slower rate. If, 
your character’s base attack bonus changes, record it on your. 
character sheet. 

| 3. Base Save Bonuses: Like base attack bonuses, base save bo- 

[nuses improve at varying rates as characters increase in level., 
\Check your character's base save bonuses for the class that has, 

advanced in level to see if any of them have increased by 1. Some 
base save bonuses increase at every even-numbered level; others , 
increase at every level divisible by three. 

4. Ability Score: If your character has just attained 4th, sth, | 
12th, 16th, or 20th character level, choose one of his or her abil- 
ity scores and raise it by 1 point. (It’s okay for a score to go above 
18.) It’s the overall character level, not the class level, that counts 
for this adjustment. 

| If your character’s Constitution modifier inci increases : by 1 (see) 
Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8), add +1 to | 
his or her hit point total for every character level below the one | 
just attained. For example, if you raise your character’s Constitu- | 
tion from 11 to 12 at 4th level, he or she gets +3 hit points (one | 
each for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd levels). Add these points before rolling | 
for hit points (the next step). 

5. Hit Points: Roll a Hit Die, add your character’s Constitu- 
tion modifier, and add the total roll to his or her hit points. Even 
if the character has a Constitution penalty and the roll was so 
low as to yield a result of 0 or fewer hit points, always add at least 
1 hit point upon gaining anew level. 

6. Skill Points: Each character gains skill points to spend on 
skills as detailed in the appropriate class description. For class 
skills, each skill point buys 1 rank, and a character's maximum 
rank in the skill is his or her character level + 3. For cross-class 
skills, each skill point only buys 1/2 rank, and the maximum 
rank in the skill is one-half that of a class skill (don't round up or 
down). See Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, 
page 22. 

If you have been “maxing out” a skill (putting as many skill 
points into it as possible), you don't have to worry about calculat- 
ing your maximum rank with it. At each new level, you can 
always assign 1 skill point—and just 1— to any skill that you're 
maxing out. (If it’s a cross-class skill, this point buys 1/2 rank.) 

Remember that you buy skills based on the class you have ad- 
vanced in, so that only those skills given as class skills for that 
class can be purchased as class skills for this level, regardless of 
what other classes you may have levels in. 

Your character’s Intelligence modifier affects the number of | 
skill points he or she gets at each level (see Table 1—1: Ability | 
Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8). This rule represents an | 
intelligent character's ability to learn faster over time. Use your | 

character's current Intelligence score, including all permanent, 


changes (such as inherent bonuses, ability drains, or an Intelli- ] 4 
gence increase gained at step 4, above) but not any temporary | 
‘changes (such as ability damage, or enhancement bonuses 
| gained from spells or magic items, such as a headband of intellect), 
\to determine the number of skill points you gain. 


7. Feats: Upon attaining 3rd level and at every third level 


thereafter (6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level), the character 
gains one feat of your choice (see Table 5—1: Feats, page 90). The 
character must meet any prerequisites for the feat in order to 


select it. As with ability score increases, it is the overall character | 
level, not the class level, that determines when a character gets a | 


_new feat. 


+ 


|__8. Spells: Spellcasting characters gain the ability to cast more | 


| spells as they advance in levels. Each class description for a spell- 


+. 


„casting class includes a Spells per Day section (on the class table) | 
‚that shows the base number of spells (without bonus spells for | 


high ability scores) of a given spell level that a character can cast 
„at each class level. See your character's class description in this 
chapter for details. 

9. Class Features: Check your character's class description in 
this chapter for any new capabilities your character may receive. 
„Many characters gain special attacks or new special powers as 
they advance in levels. 


+ 


A character may add new classes as he or she progresses in level, 


thus becoming a multiclass character. The class abilities from a 
character's different classes combine to determine a multiclass 
character's overall abilities. Multiclassing improves a character's 
versatility at the expense of focus. 


CLASS AND LEVEL FEATURES 


LAs a general rule, the abilities of a multiclass character are the 
sum of the abilities of each of the character’s classes. 

Level: “Character level” is a character's total number of levels. 

It is used to determine when feats and ability score boosts are 
_gained, as noted on Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent 
| Benefits (page 22). 

“Class level” is a character’s level in a particular class. For a 
character whose levels are all in the same class, character level 
and class level are the same. 

Hit Points: A character gains hit points from each class as his. 


or her class level increases, adding the new hit points to the pre-|_ 
vious total. For example, Lidda the halfling began as a rogue and | 


attained 4th level, then added levels of wizard at her next two. 


level advancements. As a 4th-level rogue/2nd-level wizard, her 
total hit points are 6 + Ade +1d6+1d6 + 1d4 + 1d4. 
each class to get the EET base attack bonus. A lane 
value of +6 or higher provides the character with multiple 
attacks. Find the character’s base attack bonus on Table 3-1: Base 
Save and Base Attack Bonuses (page 22) to see how many addi- 
tional attacks the character gets and at what bonuses. For 
Linstance, a 6th-level rogue/4th-level wizard would have a base 
Lattack bonus of +6 (+4 for the rogue class and +2 for the wizard 
class). A base attack bonus of +6 allows a second attack with a 
bonus of +1 (given as +6/+1 on Table 3-1), even though neither 
the +4 from the rogue levels nor the +2 from the wizard levels 
normally allows an extra attack. 

Saving Throws: Add the base save bonuses for each class 
together. A 7th-level rogue/4th-level wizard has a +3 base save 
bonus on Fortitude saving throws (+2 as a 7th-level rogue and +1 
as a 4th-level wizard), a +6 on Reflex saving throws (+5 and +1), 

_and a +6 on Will saving throws (+2 and +4). _ 

__ Skills: If a skill is a class skill for any of a multiclass charac- 
ter’s classes, then character level determines a skill’s maximum 

Teck, (The maximum rank for a class skill is 3 + character level.) 

| Ifa skill is not a class skill for any of a multiclass character's 
_classes, the maximum rank for that skill is one-half the maxi- 
mum fora class skill. 


+ 


For example, a 7th-level rogue/4th-level wizard (an 11th-level 
character) can have as many as 14 ranks in any skill that is a class | 
skill for rogues or wizards. That same character can have as. 
many as 7 ranks in any skill that is not a class skill for rogues or. 


wizards. 


| 
+ 


Class Features: A multiclass character gets all the class fea- 


itures of all his or her classes but must also suffer the conse- 


quences of the special restrictions of all his or her classes. (Excep- 
tion: A character who acquires the barbarian class does not, 


become illiterate.) Some class features don't work well with the | 
[skills or class features of other classes. For example, although | 


rogues are proficient with light armor, a rogue/wizard still has 
an arcane spell failure chance if wearing armor. 

In the special case of turning undead, both clerics and experi- , 
enced paladins have the same ability. If the character’s paladin | 
level is 4th or higher, her effective turning level is her cleric 


level plus her paladin level minus 3. Thus, a_Sth-level 
paladin/4th-level cleric turns undead as a 6th-level cleric. 


+ 


In the special case of uncanny dodge, both experienced bar-. 


_barians and experienced rogues have the same ability. When a 


¿sorcerers have the same ability. A sorcerer/wizard stacks his sor-|_ 


barbarian/rogue would gain uncanny dodge a second time (for, 
her second class), she instead gains improved uncanny dodge, if, 
she does not already have it. Her barbarian and rogue levels stack 
to determine the rogue level an attacker needs to flank her. For 
example, a 2nd-level barbarian/4th-level rogue could only be 
flanked by a rogue of at least 10th level. | 
In the special case of obtaining a familiar, both wizards and | 


cerer and wizard levels to determine the familiar’s natural armor, | 
Intelligence score, and special abilities. aed 

Feats: A multiclass character gains a feat every three character 
levels, regardless of individual class level (see Table 3-2: Expe: ] 
rience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 22). 

Ability Increases: A multiclass character increases one abil} 
ity score by 1 point every four character levels, regardless of indi- 
vidual class level (see Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Depen- 
dent Benefits, page 22). 

Spells: The character gains spells from all of his or her spell- 
casting classes. Thus, an experienced ranger/druid may have ac- 
cess to the spell protection from elements both as a ranger and as a 
druid. Since the spell’s effect is based on the class level of the 
caster, the player must keep track of whether the character is 
preparing and casting protection sm elements as a ranger or as a 


druid._ 


ADDING A SECOND CLASS 


When a character with one class gains a level, he or she may 
choose to increase the level of his or her current class or pick up 
a new class at 1st level. (A character can't gain 1st level in the 
same class more than once, even if this would allow him or her 
to select different class features, such as a different set of 
domains for a cleric.) The DM may restrict the choices available 
based on the way he or she handles classes, skills, experience, 
and training. For instance, the character may need to find a tutor 
to teach him or her the ways of the new class. Additionally, the 
DM may require the player to declare what class the character is 
“working on” before he or she makes the jump to the next level, | 
so the character has time to practice new skills. 

The character gains the ist-level base attack bonus, base s save, 
bonuses, class skills, weapon proficiencies, armor and shield pro- | 


_ficiencies, spells, other class features of the new class, hit points | 


of the appropriate Hit Die type, and the new class's number of | 


skill points gained at each additional level (not that number x 4, | 


las is the case for a 1st-level character). | 


Picking up a new class is not exactly the same as starting a char- 


acter in that class. Some of the benefits a 1st-level character gains 


59 


(such as four times the usual number of skill points) re present the 


advantage of training while the character was young and fresh, 
with lots of time to practice. When picking up a new class, a char- 
acter does not receive the following starting benefits given to 
characters who begin their careers in that class. 
e Maximum hit points from the first Hit Die. 
[e Quadruple the per-level skill points. 

[e Starting equipment. 

[: Starting gold. 


ADVANCING A LEVEL — 


+4444. 


LA multiclass character who attains a new level either increases one 


„of his or her current class levels by one or picks up a new class at 
1st level. E 

When a multiclass character advances a level in a current 
class, he or she gets all the standard benefits that a character nor- 
¿mally receives for attaining that level in that class: more hit 
points, possible bonuses on attack rolls, Armor Class, and saving | 
‘throws. (depending on the class and the new level), possible new 
{class features (as defined by the class), possible new spells, and | 
fnew skill points. 

Skill points must be spent according to the class that the multi- 
class character just advanced in (see Table 4—4: Skill Points per 
Level, page 62). Skills purchased from Table 4-2: Skills are pur- 
chased at the cost appropriate for that class. 

Rules for characters beyond 20th level (including multiclass 
characters beyond 20th level) are covered in the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide. 


XP FOR MULTICLASS CHARACTERS 


| Developing and maintaining skills and abilities in more than one 
[class is a demanding process. Depending on a character's class 
‚levels and race, he or she might or might not take an XP penalty. 
| Even Levels: If your multiclass character's classes are nearly 
‘the same level (all within one class level of each other), then he 
or she can balance the needs of the multiple et = anes 


Slin nor does a 2nd- leve fighter/2 2nd- Ea EET a level} 


rogue. 
Uneven Levels: If any two of your multiclass character's 
classes are two or more levels apart, the strain of developing and. 
maintaining different skills at different levels takes its toll. Your 
multiclass character takes a —20% penalty to XP for each class that 
is not within one level of his or her highest-level class. These 
penalties apply from the moment the character adds a class or 
raises a class's level too high. For instance, a 4th-level wizard/3rd- 
level rogue gets no penalty, but if that character raises his wizard 
level to Sth, then he takes the -20% penalty from that point on 
_until his levels were nearly even again. 
__ Races and Multiclass XP: A favored class (see the individual 
(race entries in Chapter 2: Races) does not count against the char- 
acter for purposes of the ~20% penalty to XP. In such cases, cal- 
culate the XP penalty as if the character did not have that class. 
For instance, Bergwin is an 11th-level gnome character (a 9th- 
level rogue/2nd-level bard). He takes no penalty to his XP 
because he has only one nonfavored class. (Bard is favored for 
gnomes.) Suppose he then attains 12th level and adds 1st level as 
a fighter to his classes, becoming a 9th-level rogue/2nd-level 
bard/1st-level fighter. He then takes a—20% penalty on future XP 
he earns because his fighter level is so much lower than his 
rogue level. Were he awarded 1,200 XP for an adventure, he 
would receive only 80% of that amount, or 960 XP. If he there- 
after rose to 13th level and picked up a fourth class (by adding 


| 


1st-level cleric, for example), he would take a -40% XP Bam 
from then on. 
As a second example, consider a dwarf 7th-level fighter/2nd-| 
level cleric. This character takes no penalty because his fighter. 
[class is favored for dwarves and thus not counted when determin- 


Ling whether his classes are even. Nor does he take any penalty for 


adding 1st-level rogue to the mix, since his cleric and rogue classes 
are only one level apart. In this case, cleric counts as the charac- 
ter’s highest class. 
A human’s or half-elf’s highest-level class is always considered | 
lhis or her favored class. | 


HOW MULTICLASSING WORKS 


Lidda, a 4th-level halfling rogue, decides to expand her repertoire , 
by learning some wizardry. She locates a mentor who teaches her | 
the ways of a wizard, and she spends a lot of time looking over the 
shoulder of Mialee, her party’s wizard, while the latter prepares 
ther spells each morning. When Lidda amasses 10,000 XP, she, 
becomes a 5th-level character. Instead of becoming a 5th-level . 
_rogue, however, she becomes a 4th-level rogue/1st-level wizard. 
Now, instead of gaining the benefits of attaining a new level as a 
rogue, she gains the benefits of a 1st-level wizard. She gains a, 
wizard’s Hit Die (d4), a 1st-level wizard’s +2 bonus on Will saves, | 
and 4 skill points (2 for one wizard level +2 for the Intelligence 
bonus derived from her Intelligence score of 14) that she can 
spend as a wizard. These benefits are added to the scores she 
already had as a rogue. Her base attack bonus, Reflex save bonus, | 
_and Fortitude save bonus do not increase because these numbers | 
are +0 for a 1st-level wizard. She gains a 1st-level wizard’s begin- | 
ning spellbook and spells per day. Her rogue skills and sneak | 
attack capability, however, do not improve. She could spend some | 
of her 4 skill points to improve her rogue skills, but, since they | 
would be treated as cross-class skills for a wizard, these skill | 
points would each buy only one-half rank. (The exceptions are 
any Craft or Profession skills she may have, since Craft and Pro- 
fession are class skills for both the rogue and the wizard.) 

On reaching 15,000 XP, she becomes a 6th-level character. She 
decides she'd like to continue along the wizard path, so she 
increases her wizard level instead of her rogue level. Again she 
gains the wizard’s benefits for attaining a new level rather than the 
rogue’s. As a 2nd-level wizard, she gains another d4 Hit Die, her 
base attack bonus and base Will save bonus each go up by +1, she 
gains 4 more skill points, and she can now prepare another 0-level 
spell and another 1st-level spell each day (as noted on Table 3-18: 
The Wizard). Additionally, as a 6th-level character overall, she gets 
her third feat (see Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent 
Benefits, page 22). 

At this point, Lidda is a 6th-level character: a 4th-level 
rogue/2nd-level wizard. She casts spells as a 2nd-level wizard 
does, and she sneak attacks as a 4th-level rogue does. Her 
combat skill is a little better than a 4th-level rogue’s would be, 
because she has learned something about fighting during her 
time as a wizard. (Her base attack bonus went up by +1 when she 
became a 2nd-level wizard.) Her base Reflex save bonus is +4 (+4 
from her rogue class and +0 from her wizard class), better than a 
6th-level wizard’s but not as good as a 6th-level rogue’s. Her base 
Will save bonus is +4 (+1 from her rogue class and +3 from her | 
wizard class), better than a 6th-level rogue’s but not as good as a | 
6th-level wizard’s. } 

At each new level, Lidda must decide whether to increase > her] 

rogue level or her wizard level. Of course, if she really wants to | 
have diverse abilities, she could even acquire a third class—] 4 
maybe fighter. 


- + 


idda the rogue can walk quietly up to a door, put her ear to it, and 
hear the troglodyte priest on the other side casting a spell on 

his pet crocodile. If Jozan the cleric were to try the same 
thing, hed probably make so much noise that the troglodyte 
would hear him. Jozan could, however, identify the spell that 

the evil priest is casting. Actions such as these rely on the skills that 
characters have (in this case, Move Silently, Listen, and Spellcraft). 


A character's skills represent a variety of abilities. As\a chatacter 
advances in level, he of she gets betterat using some or all of her 
skills. 

Getting Skills: A character gets a base allotment of 2, 4, 6, or 8 
skill points for each new level, depending on the class to which 
that level was added. If the character gaining his or her 1st.char- 
acter level overall (that is; gaining his or her first level in any 
class), add his or her Intelligence modifier to the base skill point 
allotment for the class andmultiply the total by four; then addan 
extra 4 pointsif the character is human. 

“If you buy a class skill (such as Listen for a rogue or Spelleraft 
for a cleric), your character gets 1 rank (equal to a +1 bonuson 
checks with that skill) for each skill point. If you buy other 
classes’ skills (cross-class skills), you get 1/2 rank per skill point. 
Your maximum rank in-a-class skill is your character level + 3. 
Your maximum rank in across-class skill is one-half of this 
number (do not round up ot down). “ 

Using Skills: To make a skill check, roll: % 

1d20,+ skill modifier // 
(Skill modifier = skill rank ability modifier 


+ miscellaneous modifiers) 


sin a skill. Many skills can be used even if the character 


fayamy p hq snur 


This roll works just like an attack roll or a saying throw— 
the higher the roll, the better. Either you're trying to match 
or exceed a certain Difficulty Class (DC), or you're trying to 
beat another characters check result. For instance, to sneak 
quietly past a guard, Lidda needs to beat the guard's Listen 
check result with her own Move Silently check result. 
Skill Ranks: A character's number of ranks in a skill is 
based on how many skill points a character has invested 


has. no ranks in them; doing this is called making an 
untrained skill check. 

Ability Modifier: The ability modifier used in a skill 
check is the modifier for theskill’s key ability (the ability 
associated’ with the skills usé). The key ability of each 
skill is noted in its-description and on Table 4-2; Skills. 

Miscellaneous Modifiers: Miscellaneous modi- 
fiers include racial bonuses, armor check penalties, 
and bonuses provided by feats, among others. 


Ranks indicate how much training or experience 
your character has with a given skill. Each of his or 
her skills has.a-rank, ranging from 0 (for a skill in 
which your character has no training at all) toa 

number equal to 3 + character level (for a character 

who has incteased a skill to its maximum rank). When 
making a skill check, you add your character’s skill 
ranks to/the roll as part of the skill modifier, so the 
more ranks you have, the higher your skill check 

result will be. 


Ranks tell you how proficient you are and reflect your training 
in a given skill. In general, while anyone can get a lucky roll, a 
character with, say, 10 ranks in a given skill has a higher degree of 
training and expertise in that skill than a character with 9 ranks or 
fewer. L 

The class starting packages in Chapter 3 provide an easy way to | 
select 1st-level skills, because they assume that you max out 
\(increase to maximum rank) each skill you buy and because they, 
[provide a shorter list from which to choose. Although selecting } 
skills from a starting package feels very different from buying | 
them rank by rank, your character winds up spending the same | 
number of skill points no matter which way you select 1st-level 
‘skills. 

The Skills paragraph on page 59 covers the skill acquisition 
rules for multiclass characters. 


TABLE 4—1: SKILL POINTS PER LEVEL 
$ 1st-Level Higher-Level 
Class ____ Skill Points! Skill Points? 4 B 
| Barbarian (4 + Int modifier) x 4 + Int modifier $ 
Bard (6+ Int modifier) x A 6 + Int modifier 
Cleric (2 + Int modifier) x 4 2 + Int modifier 
Druid (4 + Int modifier) x 4 4 + Int modifier 
Fighter (2 + Int modifier) x 4 2 + Int modifier 
Monk (4 + Int modifier) x 4 4 + Int modifier 
Paladin (2 + Int modifier) x 4 2 + Int modifier 
Ranger (6 + Int modifier) x 4 6 + Int modifier 
| Rogue (8 + Int modifier) x 4 8 + Int modifier 
| Sorcerer (2 + Int modifier) x 4 2 + Int modifier 


| Wizard (2 + Int modifier) x 4 2 + Int modifier 
L1 Humans add +4 to this total at 1st level. 


|2 Humans add +1 each level. _ 


ACQUIRING SKILLS AT IST LEVEL 


| Follow these steps to pick skills for your 1st-level character: 

1. Determine the number of skill points your character gets. 
This number depends on his or her class and Intelligence modi- 
fier, as shown on Table 4—1: Skill Points per Level. For example, 
Lidda is a 1st-level halfling rogue with an Intelligence score of 14 
(+2 Int modifier). At the start of play, she has 40 skill aan | 
spend (8 + 2 = 10; 10 X 4 = 40). 

A character gets at least 4 skill points (1 x 4 = 4) at 1st level, even | 
if he or she has an Intelligence penalty. 

A human gets 4 extra skill points as a 1st-level character. A 
human character with the same class and Intelligence modifier as 
Lidda would have 44 skill points at the start of play. 

2. Spend the skill points. Each skill point you spend on a class 

„skill gets you 1 rank in that skill. Class skills are the skills found on 
your character's class skill list. Each skill point you spend on a 


SKILLS AT HIGHER LEVELS 


cross-class skill gets your character 1/2 rank in that skill. Cross- 
class skills are skills not found on your character’s class skill list. | 
(Half ranks do not improve your skill check, but two 1/2 ranks | 
make 1 rank.) Your maximum rank in a class skill is 4. In a cross-_ 
{class skill, it’s 2. 
_ Table 4-2: Skills shows all the skills and indicates which are 
¿class skills and which are cross-class skills for each class. 
Spend all your skill points. You can’t save them to spend later. 


| When your character attains a new level, follow these steps to gain | 
new skills and improve those he or she already has. 
1. Determine the number of skill points your character gets, See 
Table 4-1: Skill Points per Level. 
A character gets at least 1 skill point at each new level, even ven if] 
he or she has an Intelligence penalty. 
A human gets 1 extra skill point per level. 
| _ 2. You can improve any class skill that you've previously maxed , 
Lout by 1 rank or any cross-class skill that you've previously maxed | 
Lout by 1/2 rank. 
3. If you have not maxed out a skill, you can spend extra skill, 
points on it and increase its rank further. 
First, find out what your character's maximum rank in that skill | 
is. Lf it’s a class skill, the maximum rank is the character’s new level 
+ 3. If it’s a cross-class skill, the maximum rank is half of that 
number (do not round up or down). —— 
You may spend the number of skill points i it takes to max out) 
ithe skill, provided that you have that many skill points to spend. | 
4. If you want to pick up a new skill for your character, you can | 
spend skill points equal to his or her character level + 3. These skill. 
points buy 1 rank each if the new skill is a class skill or 1/2 rank | 
each if it’s a cross-class skill. 
Regardless of whether a skill is purchased as a class skill or al 
cross-class skill, if it is a class skill for any of your classes, your 
maximum rank equals your total character level + 3. 


+ 
| 


When your character uses a skill, you make a skill check to see 
how well he or she does. The higher the result of the skill check, 
the better. Based on the circumstances, your result must match or 
beat a particular number (a DC or the result of an opposed skill 
check) for the check to be successful. The harder the task, the 
higher the number you need to roll. 

Circumstances can affect your check. A character who is free to 
work without distractions can make a careful attempt and avoid 
simple mistakes. A character who has lots of time can try over and 
over again, thereby assuring the best outcome. If others help, the 
character may succeed where otherwise he or she would fail. 


CHARACTER SKILLS 
When you create your character, you will probably only be able to 
purchase ranks in a handful of skills. It may not seem as though you 
have as many skills as real people do—but the skills on your char- 
acter sheet don’t actually define everything your character can do. 

Your character may have solid familiarity with many skills, without 
having the actual training that grants skill ranks. Knowing how to 
strum a few chords on a lute or clamber over a low fence doesn’t 
really mean you have ranks in Perform or Climb. Ranks in those skills 
represent training beyond everyday use—the ability to impress an 
audience with a wide repertoire of songs on the lute, or to success- 
fully scale a 100-foot-high cliff face. 

So how do normal people get through life without ranks in a lot 
of skills? For starters, remember that not every use of a skill 


requires a skill check. Performing routine tasks in normal situa- 
tions is generally so easy that no check is required. And when a 
check might be called for, the DC of most mundane tasks rarely 
exceeds 10, let alone 15. In day-to-day life, when you don’t have 
enemies breathing down your neck and your life depending on 
success, you can take your time and do things right—making it 
easy, even without any ranks in the requisite skill, to succeed (see 
Checks without Rolls, page 65). 

You're always welcome to assume that your character is familiar 
with—even good at, as far as everyday tasks go—many skills 
beyond those for which you actually gain ranks. The skills you buy 
ranks in, however, are those with which you have truly heroic 
potential. 


TABLE 4—2: SKILLS 


Key 
Skill Bbn Brd Clr Drd Ftr Mnk Pal Rer Rog Sor Wiz Untrained Ability 
Appraise cc (€ cc cc cc cc CE cc G cc CE Yes Int 
Balance cc (e cc cc cc C cc cc C cc cc Yes Dex! 
Bluff cc G cc cc cc cc CG cc € € CG Yes Cha 
Climb C C cc cc C C cc ie C cc cc Yes Str! 
Concentration cc G G € cc € G € cc € € Yes Con 
Craft Cc C C C E C C C C C C Yes Int 
Decipher Script cc C (ae EC cc cc (de cc € cc Cc No Int 
Diplomacy cc C C C cc C C cc C cc cc Yes Cha 
Disable Device cc cc cc cc cc cc cc cc E cc cc No Int 
Disguise cc (a; cc cc cc cc cc cc c cc cc Yes Cha 
Escape Artist cc € cc Ge GG G cc Ge Cc Ge cE Yes Dex! 
Forgery GC cc cc cc cc cc cc cc C cc cc Yes Int. 
Gather Information cc € CE EE cc Ge CE cc € cc cc Yes Cha 
Handle Animal al cc cc C C cc (G C cc cc cc No Cha 
Heal cc cc Ç € cc cc g € cc Ge CE Yes Wis 
Hide cc C (aia cc cc a cc c C cc cc Yes Dex! 
Intimidate € cc cc cc C cc cc cc C cc cc Yes Cha 
Jump C C cc cc C Cc cc C C cc cc Yes Str! 
Knowledge (arcana) cc g € ce cc Ge GG ce cc @ € No Int 
Knowledge (architecture cc C cc cc cc cc cc cc cc cc C No Int 

and engineering) 
Knowledge (dungeoneering) cc C cc cc Ee cc cc G GE cc C No Int 
Knowledge (geography) cc C cc cc cc cc cc C cc cc C No Int 
Knowledge (history) cc Cc € cc Ge cc cc cc cc cc G No Int 
Knowledge (local) cc C cc cc cc cc cc ice Cc cc C No Int 
Knowledge (nature) cc Ç CC E Ge cc cc G cc cc € No Int 
‘Knowledge (nobility cc C cc cc cc cc C cc cc cc Cc No Int 
and royalty) 

Knowledge (religion) cc € G cc cc € G cc cc cc C No Int 
Knowledge (the planes) cc C C ide cc cc cc cc cc cc C No Int 
Listen @ (e cc € cc © cc € g cc CE Yes Wis 
Move Silently cc C cc cc cc Cc (ata c Cc cc cc Yes Dex! 
Open Lock cc CE (de cc cc cc cc EC G cc cc No Dex 
Perform cc G cc cc cc C cc cc ie cc cc Yes Cha 
Profession cc C € G ce € C C Ẹ (e G No Wis 
Ride C (de cc C (2 cc C G cc cc cc Yes Dex 
Search cc cc CE cc cc cc cc (E € cc cc Yes Int 
Sense Motive cc C ae cc cc C C cc C cc CG Yes Wis 
Sleight of Hand cc C CE Ge Ge cc ae cc € cc Ge No Dex! 
Speak Language cc C cc cc cc cc cc cc cc cc cc No None 
Spellcraft cc € G € Ge cc cc cc cc € G No Int 
Spot cc cc cc c cc C cc e c cc cc Yes Wis 
Survival © cc CC € cc cc CE (€ cc cc CC Yes Wis 
Swim C (e cc C C G cc C C cc cc Yes Str? 
Tumble cc € cc cc cc € cc Ge € cc cc No Dex! 
Use Magic Device cc C cc (eles cc cc cc cc Ç cc cc No Cha 
Use Rope cc CG cc cc GG cc Ce C € cc cc Yes Dex 
1 Armor check penalty applies to checks. 
2 Double the normal armor check penalty applies to checks. 

SKILL CHECKS the result, the better. Unlike with attack rolls and saving throws, a 
A skill check takes into account a character's training (skill rank), natural roll of 20 on the d20 is not an automatic success, and a nat- 
natural talent (ability modifier), and luck (the die roll). It may also ural roll of 1 is not an automatic failure. 
take into account his or her race’s knack for doing certain things 
(racial bonus) or what armor he or she is wearing (armor check Difficulty Class | 
penalty), or a certain feat the character possesses, among other Some checks are made against a Difficulty Class (DC). The DC is a | 

‚things. For instance, a character who has the Skill Focus feat (page number set by the DM (using the skill rules as a guideline) that | 
1100) related to a certain skill gets a +3 bonus on all checks involv- _you must score as a result on your skill check in order to succeed. | 
Ling that skill. For example, climbing the outer wall of a ruined tower may have a| 
| To make a skill check, roll 1d20 and add your character's skill DC of 15. For your character to climb the wall, you must get a| 
| modifier for that skill. The skill modifier incorporates the charac- result of 15 or better on a Climb check. A Climb check is 1d20 + 
ter’s ranks in that skill and the ability modifier for that skill’s key Climb ranks (if any) + Strength modifier + any other modifiers 
ability, plus any other miscellaneous modifiers that may apply,| that apply. Table 4-3: Difficulty Class Examples shows some 


including racial bonuses and armor check penalties. The higher | example DCs for skill checks. 


63 


TABLE 4—3: DIFFICULTY CLASS EXAMPLES 


Challenging (20) 
(Formidable (25) 


+ 
+ 


$ 


Opposed Checks 


Difficulty (DC) 
Very easy (0) 


Example (Skill Used) 
Notice something large in plain sight (Spot) 


Easy (5) Climb a knotted rope (Climb) = 
Average (10) Hear an approaching guard (Listen) 
Tough (15) __ Rig a wagon wheel to fall off (Disable Device) —}- 


Swim in stormy water (Swim) 

Open an average lock (Open Lock) 

Leap across a 30-foot chasm (Jump) 

Track a squad of orcs across hard ground 
after 24 hours of rainfall (Survival) 


} 
+ 
{ 
Heroic (30) + 


Nearly 
impossible (40) 


+ 


An opposed check is a check whose success or failure is deter- 
mined by comparing the check result to another character's 
check result. In an opposed check, the higher result succeeds, 


| Untrained Skill Checks 
_|Generally, if your character attempts to use a skill he or she does 
\not possess, you make a skill check as normal. The skill modifier 


¿while the lower result fails. In case of a tie, the higher skill 


modifier wins. If these scores are the same, roll again to am i 


the tie. 

For example, to sneak up on someone, you make a Move, 
Silently check. Anyone who might hear you can make a Listen | 
check to react to your presence. For the opponent to hear you, his 
or her Listen check result must equal or exceed your Move Silent- 
ly check result. 


TABLE 4—4: EXAMPLE OPPOSED CHECKS 


t Skill __Opposing Skill 
Task (Key Ability) (Key Ability) 

| Con someone Bluff (Cha) Sense Motive (Wis) 
[Pretend to be someone Disguise (Cha) ___Spot (Wis) 


t 


4 


else 


Create a false map Forgery (Int) Forgery (Int) 


Hide from someone Hide (Dex) Spot (Wis) 
| Make a bully back down Intimidate (Cha) Special! 
‘Sneak up on someone Move Silently (Dex) Listen (Wis) 
Steal a coin pouch Sleight of Hand (Dex) Spot (Wis) 


Tie a prisoner securely Use Rope (Dex) _ Escape Artist (Dex) 
1 An Intimidate check is opposed by the target’s level check, nota 
skill check. See the Intimidate skill description, page 76, for more — | 
information. i 


Trying Again 


In general, you can try a skill check again if you fail, and you can 
keep trying indefinitely. Some skills, however, have consequences 
of failure that must be taken into account. A few skills are virtually 
useless once a check has failed on an attempt to accomplish a par- 


ticular task. For most skills, when a character has succeeded once 


„at a given task, additional successes are meaningless. 


Í 
+ 


For example, if Lidda the rogue misses an Open Lock check, she 


ican try again and keep trying. If, however, a trap in the lock goes 


4 


off if she misses an Open Lock check by 5 or more, then failure has 
its own penalties. = s 

Similarly, if Lidda misses a Climb check, she can keep trying, 
but if she misses by 5 or more, she falls (after which she can get up 
and try again). Aai 

If Tordek has negative hit points and is dying, Lidda can make 
an untrained Heal check to make him stable. If the check fails, 
Tordek probably loses another hit point, but Lidda can try again in 
the next round. 


Favorable and Unfavorable Conditions 


If a skill carries no penalties for failure, you can take 20 and. 
assume that you go at it long enough to eventually succeed even- | 
tually (see Checks without Rolls, page 65). 


+ 


= + 


doesn’t have a skill rank added in because the character has no 
ranks in the skill. Any other applicable modifiers, such as the, 


modifier for the skill’s key ability, are applied to the check. — 


Many skills can be used only by someone who is trained in| 
them. If you don't have Spellcraft, for example, you just don't 
know enough about magic even to attempt to identify a spell, 
regardless of your class, ability scores, or experience level. Skills , 
that cannot be used untrained are indicated by a “No” in the. 
Untrained column on Table 4—2: Skills. 

For example, Krusk the barbarian’s 4 ranks in Climb make his 

{Climb check results 4 points higher than they otherwise would 


ibe, but even Gimble the bard, with no Climb ranks, can make a, 


_Climb check because Climb can be used untrained. Gimble has a 
skill modifier of -1 (+0 for his Strength, —1 for armor), but he can 
give it a try. However, Gimble’s ranks in Use Magic Device let him | 
do something that he otherwise couldn't do at all—namely, use a 
magic item as if he had a particular spell on his class spell list that 
he actually doesn’t have. Krusk, with no ranks in the skill, can't 
make a Use Magic Device check even at a penalty because Use 
Magic Device can't be used untrained. 


$ 
Some situations may make a skill easier or harder to use, resulting | 
in a bonus or penalty to the skill modifier for a skill check or a, 
change to the DC of the skill check. It’s one thing for Krusk, with | 
his Survival skill, to hunt down enough food to eat while he’s | 
camping for the day in the middle of a lush forest, but foraging for 
food while traveling across barren desert is an entirely different 
matter. 

The DM can alter the chance of success in four ways to take into 
account exceptional circumstances. 

1. Give the skill user a +2 circumstance bonus to represent con- 
ditions that improve performance, such as having the perfect tool 
for the job, getting help from another character (see Combining 
Skill Attempts, page 65), or possessing unusually accurate infor- 
mation. a 

2. Give the skill user a —2 circumstance penalty to represent 
conditions that hamper performance, such as being forced to use 
improvised tools or having misleading information. 

3. Reduce the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make the 
task easier, such as having a friendly audience or doing work that 
can be subpar. 

4. Increase the DC by 2 to represent circumstances that make 
the task harder, such as having an uncooperative audience or 
doing work that must be flawless. 

Conditions that affect your character’s ability to perform the 
skill change the skill modifier. Conditions that modify how well 
the character has to perform the skill to succeed change the DC. A 
bonus to the skill modifier and a reduction in the check’s DC have 
the same result: They create a better chance of success. But they | 
represent different circumstances, and sometimes that difference | 
is important. _ 


ACCESS TO SKILLS 

The rules assume that a character can find a way to learn any skill. For 
instance, if Jozan wants to learn Profession (sailor), nothing in the 
rules exists to stop him. However, the DM is in charge of the world and 


makes all the decisions about where one can learn certain skills and 


where one can’t. While Jozan is living in a desert, for example, the DM 


can decide that he has no way of learning to be a sailor. It’s up to the 
DM to say whether a character can learn a given skill in a given setting. 


For example, Gimble the bard wants to entertain a band of 
dwarves who are staying at the same inn where he and his party 
are staying. Before playing his lute, Gimble listens to the dwarves’ 
drinking songs so he can judge their mood. Doing so improves his 
performance, giving him a +2 circumstance bonus on his check. | 
His player rolls a 5 and adds +9 for his skill modifier (4 ranks, +3} 

_Charisma modifier, and +2 for his impromptu research). His} 
icheck result is 14. The DM sets the base DC at 15. However, the | 
| dwarves are in a good mood because they have recently won a skir- 
mish with orc bandits, so the DM reduces the DC to 13. (Gimble’s | 
performance isn't better just because the dwarves are in a good | 
_mood, so Gimble doesn't get a bonus to add to his skill modifier. 
Instead, the DC goes down.) The leader of the dwarven band, how- 
ever, has heard that a gnome spy works for the bandits, and he's 
suspicious of Gimble. The DC to entertain him is higher than 
normal: 17 instead of 15. Gimble’s skill check result (14) is high 
„enough to entertain the dwarves (DC 13) but not their leader (DC 
,17). The dwarves applaud Gimble and offer to buy him drinks, but | 
their leader eyes him suspiciously. | 


Time and Skill Checks | 
Using a skill might take a round, take no time, or take several 
rounds or even longer. Most skill uses are standard actions, move 
actions, or full-round actions. Types of actions define how long 
activities take to perform within the framework of a combat round 
(6 seconds) and how movement is treated with respect to the activ- 

Lity (see Action Types, page 138). Some skill checks are instant and 
| represent reactions to an event, or are included as part of an action. 
| These skill checks are not actions. Other skill checks represent 
| part of movement. The distance you jump when making a Jump 
icheck, for example, is part of your movement. Each skill descrip- 
tion specifies the time required to make a check.__ 

Practically Impossible Tasks 

Sometimes you want to do something that seems practically 

impossible. In general, a task considered practically impossible 

has a DC of 40, 60, or even higher (or it carries a modifier of +20 or | 
more to the DC). 

Practically impossible tasks are hard to delineate ahead of | time. | 
They're the accomplishments that represent incredible, almosth 
logic-defying skill and luck. Picking a lock by giving it a single, 
swift kick might entail a +20 modifier to the DC; swimming up a 
waterfall could require a Swim check against DC 80; and balanc- 
ing ona fragile tree branch might have a DC of 90. 


The DM decides what is actually impossible and what is merely 
practically impossible. Characters with very high skill modifiers 
are capable of accomplishing incredible, almost unbelievable 

MAAN just as characters with very high combat bonuses are. 


lA skill check represents an attempt to accomplish some goal, usu- 

ally while under some sort of time pressure or distraction. Some- 
times, though, a character can use a skill under more favorable 
conditions and eliminate the luck factor. 

Taking 10: When your character is not being threatened or dis- 
tracted, you may choose to take 10. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the 
skill check, calculate your result as if you had rolled a 10. For many 
routine tasks, taking 10 makes them automatically successful. Dis- 
tractions or threats (such as combat) make it impossible for a char- 

_acter to take 10. In most cases, taking 10 is purely a safety meas- 
_ure—you know (or expect) that an average roll will succeed but 
fear that a poor roll might fail, so you elect to settle for the average 
[roll (a 10). Taking 10 is especially useful in situations where a par- 
| ticularly high roll wouldn't help (such as using Climb to ascend a 
_knotted rope, or using Heal to give a wounded PC long-term care). 

For example, Krusk the barbarian has a Climb skill modifier of | 

+6 (4 ranks, +3 Strength modifier, —1 penalty for wearing studded | 


leather armor). The steep, rocky slope he’s climbing has a Climb, 

DC of 10. With a little care, he can take 10 and succeed automati-. 

cally. But partway up the slope, a goblin scout begins pelting him | 

with sling stones. Krusk needs to make a Climb check to get up to} 
ithe goblin, and this time he can't simply take 10. If his player rolls 
14 or higher on 1d20, he succeeds. 

Taking 20: When you have plenty of time (generally 2 minutes 
for a skill that can normally be checked in 1 round, one full-round 
action, or one standard action), you are faced with no threats or. 

„distractions, and the skill being attempted carries no penalties for | 
| failure, you can take 20. In other words, eventually you will get a] 
20 on 1d20 if you roll enough times. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the 
skill check, just calculate your result as if you had rolled a 20. 
Taking 20 means you are trying until you get it right, and it, 
assumes that you fail many times before succeeding. Taking 20. 
takes twenty times as long as making a single check would take. 
Since taking 20 assumes that the character will fail many times 
¿before succeeding, if you did attempt to take 20 ona skill that car- , 
\ries penalties for failure (for instance, a Disable Device check to, 
disarm a trap), your character would automatically incur those 
penalties before he or she could complete the task (in this case, the , 
character would most likely set off the trap). Common “take 20” 

skills include Escape Artist, Open Lock, and Search. 

For example, Krusk comes to a cliff face. He attempts to take 10, 
for a result of 16 (10 plus his +6 skill modifier), but the DC is 20, 
and the DM tells him that he fails to make progress up the cliff. 
(His check result is at least high enough that he does not fall.) | 


|Krusk cannot take 20 because there is a penalty associated with |- 


failure (falling, in this case). He can try over and over, and eventu- | 
ally he may succeed, but he might fall one or more times in the | 
process. Later, Krusk finds a cave in the cliff and searches it. The | 
DM sees in the Search skill description that each 5- -foot-square | 
area takes a full-round action to search, and she secretly assigns a | 
DC of 15 to the attempt. She estimates that the floors, walls, and 
ceiling of the cave make up about ten 5-foot squares, so she tells 
Krusk’s player that it takes 1 minute (10 rounds) to search the 
whole cave. Krusk’s player gets a result of 12 on 1d20, adds no skill 
ranks because Krusk doesn't have the Search skill, and adds —1 
because that is Krusk’s Intelligence modifier. His roll fails. Now 
the player declares that Krusk is going to search the cavern high 
and low, taking as long as it takes. The DM takes the original time 
of 1 minute and multiplies it by 20, for 20 minutes. That’s how 
long it takes for Krusk to search the whole cave in exacting detail. 
Now Krusk’s player treats his roll as if it were 20, for a result of 19. 
That’s good enough to beat the DC of 15, and Krusk finds an old 
bronze key under a loose rock. 

Ability Checks and Caster Level Checks: The normal take 10 
and take 20 rules apply for ability checks. Neither rule applies to 
caster level checks (such as when casting dispel magic or attempt- 
ing to overcome spell resistance). 


COMBINING SKILL ATTEMPTS 


When more than one character tries the same skill at the same 
time and for the same purpose, their efforts may overlap. 


Individual Events 
Often, several characters attempt some action and each succeeds | 
or fails independently. 
For example, Krusk and each of his friends needs to climb al 
slope if they're all to get to the top. Regardless of Krusk’s roll, the | 
other characters need successful checks, too. Every character) 
makes a skill check. 4 
Í 
à + 
Aid Another | 
| You can help another character achieve success on his or her skill 
[check by making the same kind of skill check in a cooperative 
effort. If you roll a 10 or higher on your check, the character you 


65 


are helping gets a +2 bonus to his or her check, as per the rule for 
favorable conditions. (You can't take 10 on a skill check to aid 
another.) In many cases, a character's help won't be beneficial, or 


Your DM may limit certain synergies if desired, or he may add , 
more synergies for specific situations. 


+ 


only a limited number of characters can help at once. The DM ABILITY CHECKS 


limits cooperation as he or she sees fit for the given conditions. | 


For instance, if Krusk has been badly wounded and is dying, _ 


‚Jozan can try a Heal check to keep him from losing more hit} 
|points. One other character can help Jozan. If the other EN | | 
|makes a Heal check against DC 10, then Jozan gets a +2 circum-} 
_stance bonus on the Heal check he makes to help Krusk. The DM | 
(rules that two characters couldn't help Jozan at the same time | 

[because a third person would just get in the way. 

In cases where the skill restricts who can achieve certain results 
(such as with Disable Device, Search, and Survival), you can't aid 
another to grant a bonus to a task that your character couldn't 
achieve alone. For instance, a character who doesn't have the 
.trapfinding class feature can't use Search to help a rogue find a 
,magic trap, since the helper couldn't attempt to find the magic trap t 


-— 4 


{Sometimes a character tries to do something to which no specific | 


iskill really applies. In these cases, you make an ability check. An 
\ability check is a roll of 1d20 plus the appropriate ability modifier. 


Essentially, you're making an untrained skill check. The DM 
assigns a Difficulty Class, or sets up an opposed check when two. 


characters are engaged in a contest using one ability score or 
‘another. The initiative check in combat, for example, is essentially | 


a Dexterity check. The character who rolls highest goes first. 

In some cases, an action is a straight test of one’s ability with no 
luck involved. Just as you wouldn't make a height check to see , 
who is taller, you don't make a Strength check to see who is | 
stronger. When two characters arm wrestle, for example, the 


_stronger character simply wins. In the case of identical scores, 
‘roll a die. 


jon his own. | 
| TABLE 4—6: EXAMPLE ABILITY CHECKS 


Skill Synergy Task Key Ability 

It’s possible for a character to have two skills that work well. Breaking open a jammed or locked door! Strength 

together, such as someone with both Jump and Tumble. In gen- Threading a needle Dexterity 

eral, having 5 or more ranks in one skill gives the character a +2 Holding one’s breath Constitution 

bonus on skill checks with each of its synergistic skills, as noted in Navigating a maze _ Intelligence 

the skill description and on Table 4—5: Skill Synergies. In some Recognizing a stranger you’ve seen before Wisdom 

cases, this bonus applies only to specific uses of the skill in ques- Getting oneself singled out in a crowd Charisma — f 
tion, and not to all checks. Some skills provide benefits on other |1 See page 165 for information on breaking down doors and fi 
checks made by a character, such as those checks required to use smashing objects. ] 


‘certain class features. 


TABLE 4—5: SKILL SYNERGIES 


_5.or more ranks in... 


| Bluff 
Bluff 
Bluff 
Bluff 
Craft 
Decipher Script 
Escape Artist 
Handle Animal 
Handle Animal 
Jump 
Knowledge 
(arcana) 
(architecture and 
engineering) 
, (dungeoneering) 
|_ (geography) 
es 
| (history) 
(local) 
(nature) 


(nobility and royalty) 
(religion) 


(the planes) 
Search 
¿Sense Motive 
| Spellcraft 
Survival 
[Tumble 
{Tumble 
¿Use Magic Device 
Use Rope 
Use Rope 


Gives a +2 bonus on... 

Diplomacy checks 

Disguise checks to act in character 
Intimidate checks 

Sleight of Hand checks _— = 
related Appraise checks 

Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls 
Use Rope checks involving bindings 

Ride checks t 
wild empathy checks (class feature) 

Tumble checks 


+ 


4—4 


Spellcraft checks 

Search checks involving secret doors and 
similar compartments 

Survival checks when underground 

Survival checks to keep from getting lost 
or for avoiding hazards 

bardic knowledge checks (class feature) 

Gather Information checks 

Survival checks in aboveground natural 
environments 


Diplomacy checks 


checks to turn or rebuke undead (class 
feature) 

Survival checks when on other planes 

Survival checks when following tracks 

Diplomacy checks 

Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls 


_ Knowledge (nature) checks 


Balance checks 

Jump checks 

Spellcraft checks to decipher spells on scrolls 
Climb checks involving climbing ropes 
Escape Artist checks involving ropes 


This section describes each skill, including common uses and typ- 

ical modifiers. Characters can sometimes use skills for purposes 

other than those noted here. For example, you might be able to 

impress a bunch of riders by making a Ride check. 
Here is the format for skill descriptions. 


SKILL NAME 


The skill name line includes (in addition to the name of the skill) 
the following information. 

Key Ability: The abbreviation of the ability whose modifier 
applies to the skill check. Exception: Speak Language has “None” as 
its key ability because the use of this skill does not require a check. 

Trained Only: If this notation is included in the skill name 
line, you must have at least 1 rank in the skill to use it. If it is omit- 
ted, the skill can be used untrained (with a rank of 0). If any spe- 
cial notes apply to trained or untrained use, they are covered in the 
Untrained section (see below). 

Armor Check Penalty: If this notation is included in the skill 
name line, an armor check penalty applies (when appropriate) to 
checks using this skill. If this entry is absent, an armor check 
penalty does not apply. 

The skill name line is followed by a general description of what 
using the skill represents. After the description are a few other 
types of information: 

Check: What a character (“you” in the skill description) can do | 
with a successful skill check and the check’s DC. 

Action: The type of action using the skill requires, or the| | 
amount of time required for a check. 

Try Again: Any conditions that apply to successive attempts to | 
use the skill successfully. If the skill doesn't allow you to attempt, 
the same task more than once, or if failure carries an inherent] 


+ 


| penalty (such as with the Climb skill), you can't take 20. If this 
| paragraph is omitted, the skill can be retried without any inherent 
| penalty, other than the additional time required. 


Special: Any extra facts that apply to the skill, such as special 


effects deriving from its use or bonuses that certain characters 
receive because of class, feat choices, or race. wi 
Synergy: Some skills grant a bonus to the use of one or more 
other skills because of a synergistic effect. This entry, when present, 
indicates what bonuses this skill may grant or receive because of | 
such synergies. See Table 4—5 for a complete list of bonuses granted | 
_by synergy between skills (or between a skill and a class feature). 
Restriction: The full utility of certain skills is restricted to | 
characters of certain classes or characters who possess certain. 
feats. This entry indicates whether any such restrictions exist for | 
ithe skill. no | 
__ Untrained: This entry indicates what a character without at 
„least 1 rank in the skill can do with it. If this entry doesn't appear, 
it means that the skill functions normally for untrained characters 
(if it can be used untrained) or that an untrained character can't 
attempt checks with this skill (for skills that are designated as 
“Trained Only”). 


APPRAISE (INT) 


Use this skill to tell an antique from old junk, a sword that’s old 
and fancy from an elven heirloom, and high-quality jewelry from 
cheap stuff made to look good. 

Check: You can appraise common or well-known objects with a 
DC 12 Appraise check. Failure means that you estimate the value 
at 50% to 150% of its actual value. The DM secretly rolls 2d6+3, 
multiplies the result by 10%, multiplies the actual value by 

ithat percentage, then tells you the resulting value for the fA 

Litem. (For a common or well-known item, your chance of he 

i 
= 
sa 
g 


+ 


+ 
+ 


lestimating the value within 10% is fairly high even if you 
| fail the check—in such a case, you made a lucky guess.) _ 
Appraising a rare or exotic item requires a successful 
check against DC 15, 20, or higher. If the check is suc- 
‚cessful, you estimate the value correctly; failure means 
|you cannot estimate the item's value. 
A magnifying glass (page 130) gives you a p 
+2 circumstance bonus on Appraise Va 
checks involving any item that is small 


(Ex 


merchant's scale (page 130) gives you a 
+2 circumstance bonus on Appraise checks 
involving any items that are valued SS 
by weight, including anything ——! 
made of precious metals. These gy 
bonuses stack. — E 

Action: Appraising an item takes 
1 minute (ten consecutive 
full-round actions). 

Try Again: No. You 
{cannot try again on the same 
object, regardless of success. 

Special: A dwarf gets a +2 racial 
bonus on Appraise checks that are 
related to stone or metal items because 
dwarves are familiar with valuable items of all 
kinds (especially those made of stone or 
metal). 

The master of a raven familiar (see the Famil- 
iars sidebar, page 52) gains a +3 bonus on 
Appraise checks. rP 

A character with the Diligent feat 
gets a +2 bonus on Appraise checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 ranks in any Craft skill, you gain a +2 
_\bonus on Appraise checks related to items made with that Craft 
{skill (see Craft, page 70). = 

Untrained: For common items, failure on an untrained check 
means no estimate. For rare items, success means an estimate of | 
50% to 150% (2d6+3 times 10%). 


+ 


BALANCE (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) | 
You can keep your balance while walking on a tightrope, a narrow | 
beam, a slippery ledge, or an uneven floor. 

Check: You can walk on a precarious surface. A successful. 

icheck lets you move at half your speed along the surface for 1 

round. A failure by 4 or less means you can’t move for 1 round. A 

\failure by 5 or more means you fall. The difficulty varies with the 

surface, as follows: 


_Narrow Surface -Balance DC' Difficult Surface Balance DC! | 


| 7-12 inches wide 10 Uneven flagstone 10? } 
2-6 inches wide 15 Hewn stone floor __10?___ 
Less than 2 inches wide 20 Sloped or angled floor 10? 
1 Add modifiers from Narrow Surface Modifiers, below, as } 
appropriate. + 


2 Only if running or charging. Failure by 4 or less means the character 
| can’t run or charge, but may otherwise act normally. 


= 
¿Narrow Surface Modifiers | 

Surface DC Modifier’ 
Lightly obstructed (scree, light rubble) +2 
Severely obstructed (natural cavern floor, dense rubble) = +5 | 
Lightly slippery (wet floor) +2 
Severely slippery (ice sheet) E; 
Sloped or angled +2 


1 Add the appropriate modifier to the Balance DC of a narrow surface. 
These modifiers stack. Akiba 4 


while balancing, since you can't move to avoid a blow, and thus | 
you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). If you have 5 or | 
more ranks in Balance, you aren't considered flat-footed | 
while balancing. If you take damage while balancing, you. 
must make another Balance check against the same DC to 
remain standing. = 
Accelerated Movement: You can try to walk across 


normal. If you accept a —5 penalty, you can 
move your full speed as a move action. 
(Moving twice your speed in a round 
requires two Balance checks, one for each 
move action used.) You may also accept 
this penalty in order to charge across a pre- 
carious surface; charging requires one Bal- 
ance check for each multiple of your speed (or 
fraction thereof) that you charge. 
Action: None. A Balance check 
doesn't require an action; it is made 
as part of another action or as a 
reaction to a situation. 
Special: If you have the Agile feat, you 
get a +2 bonus on Balance checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Tumble, 
you get a +2 bonus on Balance checks. 


You can make the outrageous or the untrue seem plausible, or | 
use doublespeak or innuendo to deliver a secret message to, 
another character. The skill encompasses acting, conning, | 
fast talking, misdirection, prevarication, and misleading | 
body language. Use a bluff to sow temporary confusion, get) 
someone to turn and look where you point, or simply look | 
innocuous. $ 

Check: A Bluff check is opposed by the target's Sense Motive | 
check. See the accompanying table for examples of different 
‘kinds of bluffs and the modifier to the target’s Sense Motive 
check for each one. 


m —+- 
Being Attacked while Balancing: You are considered flat-footed | 


67 


ieii or a 


yA) - ot 


BLUFF EXAMPLES 


Rite 


Example Circumstances Sense Motive Modifier 
The target wants to believe you. =) 
“These emeralds aren’t stolen. I’m just desperate for coin 
right now, so I’m offering them to you cheap.” 
The bluff is believable and doesn’t affect the target much. +0 
“I don’t know what you’re talking about, sir. I’m just a 
simple peasant girl here for the fair.” 
The bluff is a little hard to believe or puts the target at some risk. +5 
“You orcs want to fight? l'Il take you all on myself. | don’t 
need my friends’ help. Just don’t get your blood all over 
my new surcoat.” 
The bluff is hard to believe or puts the target at significant risk. +10 
“This diadem doesn’t belong to the duchess. It just looks 
like hers. Trust me, | wouldn't sell you jewelry that would 
get you hanged, would 1?” 
The bluff is way out there, almost too incredible to consider. +20 
“You might find this hard to believe, but I’m actually a 
lammasu who's been polymorphed into halfling form by 
an evil sorcerer. You know we lammasus are trustworthy, 
so you can believe me.” 


Favorable and unfavorable circumstances weigh heavily on 
the outcome of a bluff. Two circumstances can weigh against 
you: The bluff is hard to believe, or the action that the 
target is asked to take goes against its self-inter- 
est, nature, personality, orders, or the like. If 
it’s important, the DM 
can distinguish between iy, 

a bluff that fails because 4g, 
the target doesn’t believe it 
and one that fails because it just 
asks too much of the target. For 
instance, if the target gets a +10 bonus 
on its Sense Motive check A 
because the bluff demands } f; 
something risky, and the 
Sense Motive check succeeds 
by 10 or less, then the target 
didn’t so much see through the 
bluff as prove reluctant to go along with 
it. A target that succeeds by 11 or more 
has seen through the bluff (and would 
have done so even if that bluff had 
not entailed any demand). 

A successful Bluff check indi- 
cates that the target reacts as you 
wish, at least for a short time 
(usually 1 round or less) or 
believes something that ( 
you want it to believe. Bluff, 
however, is not a suggestion spell. For 
example, you could use a bluff to put 
a shopkeeper off guard by saying 
that his shoes are untied. At best, 
such a bluff would make the 
shopkeeper glance down at his 4 J 
shoes. It would not cause him 
to ignore you and fiddle with 
his shoes. 

A bluff requires interaction between 
you and the target. Creatures unaware of | 
you cannot be bluffed. f 

Feinting in Combat: You can also use Blufto | 
mislead an opponent in melee combat (so that 
it can’t dodge your next attack effectively). To 
feint, make a Bluff check opposed by your target's 


Sense Motive check, but in this case, the target may add its base 
attack bonus to the roll along with any other applicable modi- 
fiers. If your Bluff check result exceeds this special Sense Motive 
check result, your target is denied its Dexterity bonus to AC (if 
any) for the next melee attack you make against it. This attack 
must be made on or before your next turn. 

Feinting in this way against a nonhumanoid is difficult because 
it’s harder to read a strange creature's body language; you take a —4 
penalty on your Bluff check. Against a creature of animal Intelli- 
gence (1 or 2) it’s even harder; you take a —8 penalty. Against a non- 
intelligent creature, it’s impossible. 

Feinting in combat does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 

Creating a Diversion to Hide: You can use the Bluff skill to help 
you hide. A successful Bluff check gives you the momentary diver- 
sion you need to attempt a Hide check while people are aware of 
you. This usage does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 

Delivering a Secret Message: You can use Bluff to get a message 
across to another character without others understanding it. Two 
rogues, for example, might seem to be talking about bakery 
goods when they’re really planning how to break into the evil 
wizard’s laboratory. The DC is 15 for simple messages, or 20 for 
complex messages, especially those that rely on getting across 
new information. Failure by 4 or less means you can't get the 
message across. Failure by 5 or more means that some false infor- 
mation has been implied or inferred. Anyone listening to 
@), the exchange can make a Sense Motive check opposed by 
B) the Bluff check you made to transmit in order to intercept 
your message (see Sense Motive, page 81). 

Action: Varies. A Bluff check made as part of general 

interaction always takes at least 1 round (and is at least a 
full-round action), but it can take much longer if 
you try something elaborate. A Bluff check 
made to feint in combat or create a diversion to 
hide is a standard action. A Bluff check made to 
deliver a secret message doesn't take an action; 
it is part of normal communication. However, 
the DM may limit the amount of information 
you can convey ina single round. 

Try Again: Varies. Generally, a failed Bluff 
check in social interaction makes the target 
too suspicious for you to try again in the 
same circumstances, but you may retry 
freely on Bluff checks made to feint in 
combat. Retries are also allowed when you 
are trying to send a message, but you may 
attempt such a retry only once per round. 
Each retry carries the same chance of 
miscommunication. 

Special: A ranger gains a bonus 
on Bluff checks when using this skill 
against a favored enemy (see page 

47). 
The master of a snake familiar 
(see the Familiars sidebar, page 
52) gains a +3 bonus on Bluff 
checks. 

If you have the Persuasive 
feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Bluff checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or 
more ranks in Bluff, you get a 


Krusk helps Jozan climb 
the cliff. 


+2 bonus on Diplomacy, Intimidate, and Sleight of Hand checks, 
as well as on Disguise checks made when you know youre being 
observed and you try to act in character. 


CLIMB (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) | 
Use this skill to scale a cliff, to get to the window on the second | 
_story of a wizard’s tower, or to climb out of a pit after falling | 
\through a trapdoor. 

Check: With a successful Climb check, you can advance upd 
down, or across a slope, a wall, or some other steep incline (or. 
even a ceiling with handholds) at one-quarter your normal. 
_speed. A slope is considered to be any incline at an angle meas- 
„uring less than 60 degrees; a wall is any incline at an angle meas- 

uring 60 degrees or more. 

A Climb check that fails by 4 or less means that you make no 

progress, and one that fails by 5 or more means that you fall from 
_whatever height you have already attained. 

A climber’s kit (page 130) gives you a +2 circumstance bonus | 
Lon Climb checks. 

The DC of the check depends on the conditions of the climb., 

Compare the task with those on the following table to determine | 
an appropriate DC. 


Climb DC Example Surface or Activity 


0 A slope too steep to walk up, or a knotted rope with a wall 
to brace against. 
a5 A rope with a wall to brace against, or a knotted rope, or a 
a rope affected by the rope trick spell. 
110 A surface with ledges to hold on to and stand on, such as 
il a very rough wall or a ship’s rigging. 
15 Any surface with adequate handholds and footholds 


(natural or artificial), such as a very rough natural rock 
surface or a tree, or an unknotted rope, or pulling yourself 

{ up when dangling by your hands. 

20 An uneven surface with some narrow handholds and 
footholds, such as a typical wall in a dungeon or ruins. 

25 _A rough surface, such as a natural rock wall or a brick _ 
wall. 5 

25 An overhang or ceiling with handholds but no footholds. 


-= A perfectly smooth, flat, vertical surface cannot be pena č 


climbed. 


Climb DC 
Modifier’ _ Example Surface or Activity _ 
-10 Climbing a chimney (artificial or natural) or other location 
where you can brace against two opposite walls (reduces 
DC by 10). 
| —5 Climbing a corner where you can brace against 
| perpendicular walls (reduces DC by 5). 
+5 Surface is slippery (increases DC by 5). 
_1 These modifiers are cumulative; use any that apply. 


You need both hands free to climb, but you may cling to a wall 
with one hand while you cast a spell or take some other action 
that requires only one hand. While climbing, you can't move to 
avoid a blow, so you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). You 
also can’t use a shield while climbing. 
Any time you take damage while climbing, make a Climb 
check against the DC of the slope or wall. Failure means you fall 
from your current height and sustain the appropriate falling 
_damage. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has information on falling 
damage.) 
| Accelerated Climbing: You try to climb more quickly than 
| normal. By accepting a—5 penalty, you can move half your speed 
(instead of one-quarter your speed). 
Making Your Own Handholds and Footholds: You can make your | 
own handholds and footholds by pounding pitons into a wall. | 


Doing so takes 1 minute per piton, and one piton is needed per 3, 
feet of distance. As with any surface that offers handholds and 
footholds, a wall with pitons in it has a DC of 15. In the same | 
way, a climber with a handaxe or similar implement can cut. 
ihandholds in an ice wall. 
| Catching Yourself When Falling: It’s practically impossible to 
\catch yourself on a wall while falling. Make a Climb check (DC = 
wall’s DC + 20) to do so. It’s much easier to catch yourself on a 
slope (DC = slope’s DC + 10). 
Catching a Falling Character While Climbing: If someone. climb- | 
ling above you or adjacent to you falls, you can attempt to catch | 
the falling character if he or she is within your reach. Doing so 
requires a successful melee touch attack against the falling char- 
acter (though he or she can voluntarily forego any Dexterity, 
bonus to AC if desired). If you hit, you must immediately, 
attempt a Climb check (DC = wall’s DC + 10). Success indicates 
that you catch the falling character, but his or her total weight, 
including equipment, cannot exceed your heavy load limit or, 
you automatically fall. If you fail your Climb check by 4 or less, 
you fail to stop the character’s fall but don't lose your grip on the 
wall. If you fail by 5 or more, you fail to stop the character's fall , 
and begin falling as well. 
Action: Climbing is part of movement, so it’s generally part of | 
a move action (and may be combined with other types of move- 
ment in a move action). Each move action that includes any 
climbing requires a separate Climb check. Catching yourself or 
another falling character doesn't take an action, _ | 
Special: You can use a rope to haul a character upward (or| 
lower a character) through sheer strength. You can lift double | 
your maximum load (see page 162) in this manner. __ 
A halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Climb checks because] half, 
lings are agile and surefooted. p! 
The master of a lizard familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page. 
52) gains a +3 bonus on Climb checks. 
If you have the Athletic feat, you get a +2 bonus on Climb 
checks. 
A creature with a climb speed (such as a monstrous spider, or 
a character under the effect of a spider climb spell) has a +8 racial 
bonus on all Climb checks. The creature must make a Climb 
check to climb any wall or slope with a DC higher than 0, but it 
always can n choose to take 10 (see Checks without Rolls, page 
with a climb speed chooses a: an accelerated climb (see above), it 
moves at double its climb speed (or at its land speed, whichever 
is slower) and makes a single Climb check at a —5 penalty. Such 
a creature retains its Dexterity bonus to Armor Class (if any) 
while climbing, and opponents get no special bonus to their 
attacks against it. It cannot, however, use the run action while 
climbing. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a 
+2 bonus on Climb checks made to climb a rope, a knotted rope, 
or a rope-and-wall combination. 


CONCENTRATION (Con) 


You are particularly good at focusing your mind. 

Check: You must make a Concentration check whenever 
you might potentially be distracted (by taking damage, by | 
harsh weather, and so on) while engaged in some action that | 
requires your full attention. Such actions include casting a| 
spell, concentrating on an active spell (such as detect STETA 

directing a spell (such as spiritual weapon), using a spell-like | 

ability (such as a paladin’s remove disease ability), or using a skill | 
that would provoke an attack of opportunity (such as Disable | 
(Device, Heal, Open Lock, and Use Rope, among others). In| 

| general, if an action wouldn't normally provoke an attack of 

opportunity, you need not make a Concentration check to avoid 

being distracted._ 


69 


o% 


If the Concentration check succeeds, you may continue with 
the action as normal. If the check fails, the action automatically 
fails and is wasted. If you were in the process of casting a spell, 
the spell is lost (see Cast a Spell, page 140). If you were concen- 
trating on an active spell, the spell ends as if you had ceased con- | 


centrating on it. If you were directing a spell, the direction fails | 


_but the spell remains active. If you were using a spell-like ability, | 
‘that use of the ability is lost. A skill use also fails, and in some, 
[cases a failed skill check may have other ramifications as well. | 

The table below summarizes various types of distractions that | 
cause you to make a Concentration check. If the distraction occurs | 


+ 


[spell you are trying to cast to the EE Concentration DC. 
(See Concentration, page 170, for more information.) If more than 
one type of distraction is present, make a check for each one; any 
failed Concentration check indicates that the task is not completed. 
¿Concentration DC! 
10 + damage dealt Damaged during the action.? 

10 + half of continuous Taking continuous damage during the 


4 


damage last dealt action? 

Distracting spell’s Distracted by nondamaging spell.* 
save DC 

10 Vigorous motion (on a moving mount, 


taking a bouncy wagon ride, in a small boat 
in rough water, belowdecks in a storm- 
tossed ship). - 

[15 Violent motion (on a galloping horse, taking 
l a very rough wagon ride, in a small boat in 
rapids, on the deck of a storm-tossed ship). 


120 Extraordinarily violent motion (earthquake). 
\15 Entangled. 
20 Grappling or pinned. (You can cast only 


spells without somatic components for 
which you have any required material 
component in hand.) 


5 Weather is a high wind carrying blinding 

rain or sleet. 4 
10 Weather is wind-driven hail, dust, or debris. | 
Distracting spell’s Weather caused by a spell, such as storm of | 
save DC vengeance.* | 


1 If you are trying to cast, concentrate on, or direct a spell when the 
distraction occurs, add the level of the spell to the indicated DC. 

2 Such as during the casting of a spell with a casting time of 1 round 
or more, or the execution of an activity that takes more than a single 
full-round action (such as Disable Device). Also, damage stemming 
from an attack of opportunity or readied attack made in response to 

| the spell being cast (for spells with a casting time of 1 action) or the 
__action being taken (for activities requiring no more than a full-round 
action). (See also Distracting Spellcasters, page 160.) 

3 Such as from Melf’s acid arrow. 

4 If the spell allows no save, use the save DC it would have if it did 
allow a save. = 

Action: None. Making a Concentration check doesn't take an 
action; it is either a free action (when attempted reactively) or part 
of another action (when attempted actively), _ 

Try Again: Yes, though a success doesn't cancel the effect of a 
_previous failure, such as the loss of a spell you were casting or the 
disruption of a spell you were concentrating on. 

Special: You can use Concentration to cast a spell, use a spell- like 

[ibility or use a skill defensively, so as to avoid attacks of opportunity 
laltogether. This doesn't apply to other actions that might provoke 

‚attacks of opportunity (such as movement or loading a crossbow). 

The DC of the check is 15 (plus the spells level, if casting a spell or | 

using a spell-like ability defensively). If the Concentration check 


Distraction ji 


succeeds, you may attempt the action normally without provoking. 
any attacks of opportunity. A successful Concentration check still | 
doesn't allow you to take 10 on another check if you are in a stressful | 
situation; you must make the check normally. If the Concentration | 
icheck fails, the related action also automatically fails (with any 


appropriate ramifications), and the action is wasted, just as if your 


concentration had been disrupted by a distraction. 
A character with the Combat Casting feat gets a +4 bonus on 
Concentration checks made to cast a spell or use a spell-like ability , 
while on the defensive (see page 140) or while grappling or pinned. | 


—— - 4 


CRAFT (NT) 


You are trained in a craft, trade, or art, such as alchemy, a1 armor- 
smithing, basketweaving, bookbinding, bowmaking, blacksmith- , 
ing, calligraphy, carpentry, cobbling, gemcutting, leatherworking, | 
locksmithing, painting, pottery, sculpting, shipmaking, stonema- 
_sonry, trapmaking, weaponsmithing, or weaving. —_ 
Like Knowledge, Perform, and Profession, Craft is actually a. 
\number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill. 


Craft (carpentry). Your ranks in that skill don't affect any Craft 


(pottery) or Craft (leatherworking) checks you might make. You 
could have several Craft skills, each with its own ranks, each pur-_ 
chased as a separate skill. 

A Craft skill is specifically focused on creating something. If 
nothing is created by the endeavor, it probably falls under the 
heading of a Profession skill (page 80). 

Check: You can practice your trade and make a decent living, | 

¿earning about half your check result in gold pieces per week of | 
dedicated work. You know how to use the tools of your trade, how | 
to perform the craft’s daily tasks, how to supervise untrained | 
helpers, and how to handle common problems. (Untrained labor-_ 
ers and assistants earn an average of 1 silver piece per day.) — 

The basic function of the Craft skill, however, is to allow you to | 
make an item of the appropriate type. The DC depends on the 
complexity of the item to be created. The DC, your check results, 
and the price of the item determine how long it takes to make a 
particular item. The item’s finished price also determines the cost 
of raw materials. (In the game world, it is the skill level required, 
the time required, and the raw materials required that determine 
an item's price. That’s why the item's price and the Craft DC are 
used to determine how long it takes to make the item and the cost 
of the raw materials.) = 

In some cases, the fabricate spell (page 229) can be used to 
achieve the results of a Craft check with no actual check involved. 
However, you must make an appropriate Craft check when using 
the spell to make articles requiring a high degree of craftsmanship 
(jewelry, swords, glass, crystal, and so forth). 

A successful Craft check related to woodworking in conjunc- 
tion with the casting of the ironwood spell (page 246) enables you 
to make wooden items that have the strength of steel. 

When casting the spell minor creation (page 253), you must suc- 
ceed on an appropriate Craft check to make a complex item. For 
instance, a successful Craft (bowmaking) check might be required 
to make straight arrow shafts. 

All crafts require artisan’s tools (page 129) to give the best 
chance of success. If improvised tools are used, the check is made 
with a —2 circumstance penalty. On the other hand, masterwork | 
artisan’s tools provide a +2 circumstance bonus on the check. , 

To determine how much time and money it takes to make an | 
item, follow these steps. 

1. Find the item's price in Chapter 7: Equipment of this book or | 
in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, or have the DM set the price for an | 
item not otherwise described. Put the price in silver pieces (1 gp =| 
110 sp). 

2. Find the DC from the table below, or have the DM set one. 

3. Pay one-third of the item's price for the cost of raw materials. 

4. Make an appropriate Craft check representing one week's work. 


mn 


If the check succeeds, multiply your check result by the DC. If 
the result x the DC equals the price of the item in sp, then you 
have completed the item. (If the result x the DC equals double or 
triple the price of the item in silver pieces, then you've completed 
the task in one-half or one-third of the time. Other multiples of | 
the DC reduce the time in the same manner.) If the result x the, 


_DC doesn't equal the price, then it represents the progress you've. 
| made this week. Record the result and make a new Craft check for | 


ithe next week. Each week, you make more progress until your} 
„total reaches the price of the item in silver pieces. 
Ifyou fail a check by 4 or less, you make no progress this week. | 


Ifyou fail by 5 or more, you ruin half the raw materials and have to 
_pay half the original raw material cost again. 


Progress by the Day: You can make checks by the day instead of by 
the week. In this case your progress (check result x DC) is in 
copper pieces instead of silver pieces. 


capable with stonework and metalwork. 

A gnome has a +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks bed 
cause gnomes have sensitive noses. 

You may voluntarily add +10 to the indicated DC to craft anl fi 


litem. This allows you to create the item more quickly (since you'll 
lbe multiplying this higher DC by your Craft check result to deter- 
|mine progress). You must decide whether to increase the DC 


before you make each weekly or daily check. 
To make an item using Craft (alchemy), you must have alchem- , 


‚ical equipment and be a spellcaster. If you are working in a city, | 
lyou can buy what you need as part of the raw materials cost to. 


make the item, but alchemical equipment is difficult or impos- 
sible to come by in some places. Purchasing and maintaining an 
alchemist’s lab (page 129) grants a +2 circumstance bonus on Craft | 
(alchemy) checks because you have the perfect tools for the job, | 
but it does not affect the cost of any items made using the skill. 


Creating Masterwork Items: You can make a masterwork item—a __ Synergy: If you have 5 ranks in a Craft skill, you get a +2 bonus 
weapon, suit of armor, shield, or tool that conveys a bonus on its} Jon Appraise checks related to items made with that Craft skill. , 


use through its exceptional craftsmanship, not through being, 4 
DECIPHER SCRIPT (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 


| magical. To create a masterwork item, you create the masterwork | 


component as if it were a separate item in addition to the standard | 
item. The masterwork component has its own price (300 gp for a 
weapon or 150 gp for a suit of armor or a shield) and a Craft DC of 
20. Once both the standard component and the masterwork com- 
ponent are completed, the masterwork item is finished. Note: The 
cost you pay for the masterwork component is one-third of the 


| given amount, just as it is for the cost in raw materials. 


= 


Repairing Items: Generally, you can repair an item by making 


| checks against the same DC that it took to make the item in the first 
| place. The cost of repairing an item is one-fifth of the items price. 


When you use the Craft skill to make a particular sort of item, 


ithe DC for checks involving the creation of that item are typically 
_as given on the following table. 


Item 


„Crossbow ___ 
| Simple melee or thrown weapon Weaponsmithing 12 


zi Craft Skill Craft DC 
Acid Alchemy! 15 
Alchemist’s fire, smokestick, Alchemy" 20 
or tindertwig 4 
Antitoxin, sunrod, tanglefoot Alchemy! 25 | 
bag, or thunderstone i: 


Armor or shield Armorsmithing 10 + AC bonus | 


Longbow or shortbow Bowmaking 12 

Composite longbow or Bowmaking 15 
composite shortbow _ —— 

Composite longbow or Bowmaking 15+ 
composite shortbow with (2 x rating) 


high strength rating 
Weaponsmithing 15 


_Martial melee or thrown weapon Weaponsmithing 15 


_Exotic melee or thrown weapon 


+ 


f 


Weaponsmithing 18 
Mechanical trap Trapmaking Varies? 
Very simple item (wooden spoon) Varies 5 


Typical item (iron pot) Varies 10 
High-quality item (bell) Varies is 
Complex or superior item (lock) Varies 20 


1 You must be a spellcaster to craft any of these items. 
2 Chapter 3 of the Dungeon Master's Guide contains a set of rules for 
how to construct traps. =_— 


Action: Does not apply. Craft checks are made by the day or 
week (see above). 


| Try Again: Yes, but each time you miss by 5 or more, you ruin 
{half the raw materials and have to pay half the original raw mate- 


rial cost again. 
Special: A dwarf has a +2 racial bonus on Craft checks that | 
are related to stone or metal, because dwarves are especially | 


Use this skill to piece together the meaning of ancient runes. 
carved into the wall of an abandoned temple, to get the gist of an. 
intercepted letter written in the Infernal language, to follow the 
directions on a treasure map written in a forgotten alphabet, or to 
interpret the mysterious glyphs painted on a cave wall. 

Check: You can decipher writing in an unfamiliar language or. 
a message written in an incomplete or archaic form. The base DC | 


lis 20 for the simplest messages, 25 for standard texts, and 30 a 


higher for intricate, exotic, or very old writing. 

If the check succeeds, you understand the general content of al 
piece of writing about one page long (or the equivalent). If the | 
check fails, the DM makes a DC 5 Wisdom check for you to see if | 
you avoid drawing a false conclusion about the text. (Success_ 
means that you do not draw a false conclusion; failure means that 
you do.) 

The DM secretly makes both the Decipher Script check and (if 
necessary) the Wisdom check, so that you can't tell whether the 
conclusion you draw is true or false. 

Action: Deciphering the equivalent of a single page of script 
takes 1 minute (ten consecutive full-round actions). 

Try Again: No. 

Decipher Script checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more e ranks in Decipher Script, you 

get a +2 bonus on Use Magic Device checks involving scrolls. 


DIPLOMACY (CHA) 


Use this skill to persuade the chamberlain to let you see the king, to 
negotiate peace between feuding barbarian tribes, or to convince the 
ogre mages that have captured you that they should ransom you 
back to your friends instead of twisting your limbs off one by one. 
Diplomacy involves etiquette, social grace, tact, subtlety, and a way 
with words. A skilled character knows the formal and informal rules 
of conduct, social expectations, proper forms of address, and so on. 
This skill represents the ability to give others the right impression of 
yourself, to negotiate effectively, and to influence others. 

Check: You can change the attitudes of others (nonplayer char- | 
acters) with a successful Diplomacy check; see the Influencing | 
NPC Attitudes sidebar, below, for basic DCs. (The Dungeon Master's | 
Guide has more information on influencing NPCs.) In negotia- | 


_tions, participants roll opposed Diplomacy checks, and the winner | 


gains the advantage. Opposed checks also resolve situations when | 
two advocates or diplomats plead opposite cases in a hearing} 


(before a third party. 


Action: Changing others’ attitudes with Diplomacy generally 


‘takes at least 1 full minute (10 consecutive full-round actions). In 


some situations, this time requirement may greatly increase. A 


gi 


rushed Diplomacy check (such as an attempt to head off a fight 
between two angry warriors) can be made asa full-round action, 
but you take a —10 penalty on the check. 

Try Again: Optional, but not recommended because retries 
usually do not work. Even if the initial Diplomacy check succeeds, 


the other character can be persuaded only so far, and a retry may _ 


do more harm than good. If the initial check fails, the other char- 


$ 


Lacter has probably become more firmly committed to his TEN | | 
land a retry is futile. 

Special: A half-elf has a +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy ER } 
(thanks to her ability to relate well to others. 

_ If you have the Negotiator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Diplo- 


‚macy checks. 


D 


= 


secretly, so that you don't necessarily know whether you've suc- 


t 


Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, Knowledge (no- 
bility and royalty), or Sense Motive, you get a +2 bonus on Diplo- 
macy checks. 


ISABLE DEVICE (INT; TRAINED ONLY) t 


[Use this skill to disarm a trap, jam a lock (in either the open or closed 

| position), or rig a wagon wheel to fall off. You can examine a fairly | 
imple or fairly small mechanical device and disable it. The effort, 
requires at least a simple tool of the appropriate sort (a pick, pry bar, 
saw, file, or the like). Attempting a Disable Device check without a 
set of thieves’ tools (page 130) imposes a —2 circumstance penalty on 
the check, even if a simple tool is employed. The use of masterwork 
thieves’ tools provides a +2 circumstance bonus on the check. 
Check: Your DM makes the Disable Device check for you 


\ceeded. The DC depends on how tricky the device is. Disabling (or 
[rigging or jamming) a fairly simple device has a DC of 10; more 


t 


$ 


+ 
Í 
+ 
| 


intricate and complex devices have higher DCs. 

If the check succeeds, you disable the device. If it fails by 4 or 
‚less, you have failed but can try again. If you fail by 5 or more, 
something goes wrong. If the device is a trap, you spring it. If 
‘you're attempting some sort of sabotage, you think the device is 
disabled, but it still works normally, 


to work normally for a while and then fail or fall off some time. 


later (usually after 1d4 rounds or minutes of use). | 
Device Time Disable Device DC’ Example | 
Simple 1 round 10 Jam a lock 

Tricky 1d4 rounds 15 Sabotage a wagon wheel 
Difficult 2d4 rounds 20 Disarm a trap, reset a trap 
Wicked 2d4 rounds 22 Disarm a complex trap, 


cleverly sabotage a 
clockwork device 
Llf you attempt to leave behind no trace of your tampering, add 5 to 
the DC. 


DISGUISE (CHA) 


Action: The amount of time needed to make a Disable Device, 
check depends on the task, as noted above. Disabling a simple. 
device takes 1 round and is a full-round action. An intricate or | 
complex device requires 1d4 or 2d4 rounds. 

Try Again: Varies. You can retry if you have missed the check | 
iby 4 or less, though you must be aware that you have failed in 
\order to try again. _ _ 

Special: If you have the Nimble Fingers feat, you get a +2 bonus 
on Disable Device checks. 

A rogue who beats a trap’s DC by 10 or more can study the tr trap, } 
\figure out how it works, and bypass it (along with her compan- 

ions) without disarming it. _ 

Restriction: Rogues (and other characters with the tre trapfind- 

ing class feature) can disarm magic traps. A magic trap generally , 
has a DC of 25 + the spell level of the magic used to create it. For | 
instance, disarming a trap set by the casting of explosive runes has a 
DC of 28 because explosive runes is a 3rd-level spell. —__ 

The spells fire trap, glyph of warding, teleportation circle, le, and all, 
‘symbol spells also create traps that a rogue can disarm with a suc-, 
cessful Disable Device check. Spike growth and spike stones, how- 

ever, create magic traps against which Disable Device checks do. 
not succeed. See the individual spell descriptions in Chapter 11: 
Spells for details. 


Use this skill to change your own appearance or someone else's. 
The effort requires at least a few props, some makeup, and some | 
itime. The use of a disguise kit (page 130) provides a +2 circum- | 
stance bonus on a Disguise check. A disguise can include an appar- | 
ent change of height or weight amounting to no more than one- | 
tenth of the original. 

You can also use Disguise to impersonate people, either indi-, 
viduals or types. For example, you might, with little or no actual | 
disguise, make yourself seem like a traveler even if you're a 
local. knis 

Check: Your Disguise check result determines how good the 
disguise is, and it is opposed by others’ Spot check results. If you 
don't draw any attention to yourself, others do not get to make 
Spot checks. If you come to the attention of people who are suspi- 
cious (such as a guard who is watching commoners walking 
through a city gate), the DM can assume that such observers are 
taking 10 on their Spot checks. = 

You get only one Disguise check k per us use of the skill, even if sev- 
eral people are making Spot checks against it. Your DM makes 
your Disguise check secretly, so that you can't be sure how good 
the result is. 

The effectiveness of your disguise depends in part on how 
much you're attempting to change your appearance. 


INFLUENCING NPC ATTITUDES 

Use the table below to determine the effectiveness of Diplomacy 
checks (or Charisma checks) made to influence the attitude of a 
nonplayer character, or wild empathy checks made to influence the atti- 
tude of an animal or magical beast. The Dungeon Master’s Guide has 
more information on NPC attitudes. 


Initial New Attitude (DC to achieve) 

Attitude Hostile Unfriendly Indifferent Friendly Helpful 
Hostile Less than 20 20 25 35 50 
Unfriendly Less than 5 5 15 25 40 
Indifferent — Less than 1 1 15 30 
Friendly = — ____ Less than 1 1 20 
Helpful — — — Lessthan1 1 


For example, if a character encounters a nonplayer character 
whose initial attitude is hostile, that character needs to get a result 
of 20 or higher on a Diplomacy check (or Charisma check) to 
change that NPC’s attitude. On any result less than 20, the NPC’s 
attitude is unchanged. On a result of 20 to 24, the NPC’s attitude 
improves to unfriendly. 


Attitude Means Possible Actions 

Hostile Will take risks to hurt you Attack, interfere, berate, flee 

Unfriendly Wishes you ill Mislead, gossip, avoid, 
watch suspiciously, insult 

Indifferent | Doesn’t much care Socially expected interaction 

Friendly Wishes you well Chat, advise, offer limited 


help, advocate 


Will take risks to aihelp you Protect, back up, heal, aid 


Disguise Check Modifier 


Disguise 

Minor details only +5 
Disguised as different gender! spn oE 
Disguised as different race! -2 
Disguised as different age category' -2? 


1 These modifiers are cumulative; use any that_apply. 
_2 Per step of difference between your actual age category and your 
disguised age category. The steps are: young (younger than 
adulthood), adulthood, middle age, old, and venerable. 


$ 


‚If you are impersonating a particular individual, those who know | 


¿what that person looks like get a bonus on their Spot checks 
_according to the table below. Furthermore, they are automatically 


considered to be suspicious of you, so opposed checks are always 
called for. 


Familiarity. = Viewer’s Spot Check Bonus 
Recognizes on sight +4 
| Friends or associates +6 
Close friends +8 
Intimate +10 


Usually, an individual makes a Spot check to see through your dis- 
guise immediately upon meeting you and each hour thereafter. If 
you casually meet many different creatures, each for a short time, 
check once per day or hour, using an average Spot modifier for the 
| group. For example, if you are trying to pass for a merchant at a 
| bazaar, the DM can make one Spot check per hour for the people 
you encounter, using a +1 bonus on the check to represent the 
\average for the crowd (most people with no Spot ranks and a few 
with good Spot modifiers). 
Action: Creating a disguise requires 1d3x10 minutes of work. 
Try Again: Yes. You may try to redo a failed disguise, but once 


Lothers know that a disguise was attempted, they'll be more suspicious. 


+ 


+ 


Special: Magic that alters your form, such as alter self, disguise 
self, polymorph, or shapechange, grants you a +10 bonus on Disguise 
checks (see the individual spell descriptions in Chapter 11: 
Spells). You must succeed on a Disguise check with a +10 bonus. 
to duplicate the appearance of a specific individual using the veil | 
spell. Divination magic that allows people to see through illu- 
sions (such as true seeing) does not penetrate a mundane disguise, | 
but it can negate the magical component of a magically 
enhanced one. 

You must make a Disguise check when you cast a simulacrum 
spell (page 279) to determine how good the likeness is. 

If you have the Deceitful feat, you get a +2 bonus on Disguise 
checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 
bonus on Disguise checks when you know that you're being 
observed and you try to act in character. 


ESCAPE ARTIST (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) | 


+ 


| 
+ 


Use this skill to slip out of bonds or manacles, wriggle through | 
tight spaces, or escape the grip of a monster that grapples you. | 
Check: The table below gives the DCs to escape various forms, 
of restraints. 
Ropes: Your Escape Artist check is opposed by the binder’s Use 


\Rope check. Since it’s easier to tie someone up than to escape from 


‚their construction. 


+ 
+ 


+ 


being tied up, the binder gets a +10 bonus on his or her check. 
Manacles and Masterwork Manacles: The DC for manacles is set by , 


Tight Space: The DC noted on the table is for getting through a] 
space where your head fits but your shoulders don't. If the space is 
long, such as a chimney, the DM may call for multiple checks. You 
can't get through a space that your head does not fit through. | 

Grappler: You can make an Escape Artist check opposed by your | 
enemy's grapple check to get out of a grapple or out of a pinned 
condition (so that you're only grappling). See Escape from Grapple 
under If You're Grappling, page 156. 


+ 


_ Restraint Escape Artist DC 
Ropes Binder’s Use Rope check +10 | 
Net, animate rope spell, command plants spell, — 20. 

control plants spell, or entangle spell et 
Snare spell 23 
Manacles a 30 
Tight space 30 
Masterwork manacles 35.) 


¿Grappler 


Grappler’s grapple check result | 


Action: Making an Escape Artist check to escape from ropel 
bindings, manacles, or other restraints (except a grappler) requires | 
1 minute of work. Escaping from a net or an animate rope, command | 
plants, control plants, or entangle spell is a full-round action. Es- | 
caping from a grapple or pin is a standard action. Squeezing 
through a tight space takes at least 1 minute, maybe longer, 
depending on how long the space is. 

Try Again: Varies. You can make another check after a failed 
check if you're squeezing your way through a tight space, making 
multiple checks. If the situation permits, you can make additional 
checks, or even take 20, as long as you're not being actively 
opposed. $ 

Special: If you have the Agile feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Escape Artist checks. Ee 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Escape Artist, you get 
a +2 bonus on Use Rope checks to bind someone. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a +2 bonus on 
Escape Artist checks when escaping from rope bonds. 


OTHER WAYS TO BEAT A TRAP 
It’s possible to ruin many traps without making a Disable Device 
check. 

Ranged Attack Traps: Once a trap’s location is known, the obvious 
way to ruin it is to smash the mechanism—assuming the mecha- 
nism can be accessed. Failing that, it’s possible to plug up the holes 
from which the projectiles emerge. Doing this prevents the trap 
from firing unless its ammunition does enough damage to break 
through the plugs. 

Melee Attack Traps: These devices can be thwarted by smashing the 
mechanism or blocking the weapons, as noted above. Alternatively, if a 
character studies the trap as it triggers, he might be able to time his 


b 


ut studying a trap when it first goes off gains a +4 dodge bonus 


against its attacks if it is triggered again within the next minute. 


Pits: Disabling a pit trap generally ruins only the trapdoor, making it 


an uncovered pit. Filling in the pit or building a makeshift bridge across 
it is an application of manual labor, not the Disable Device skill. 
Characters could neutralize any spikes at the bottom of a pit by attack- 
ing them—they break just as daggers do. 

Magic Traps: Dispel magic helps here. Someone who succeeds on a 
caster level check against the level of the trap’s creator suppresses the 
trap for 1d4 rounds. This works only with a targeted dispel magic, not 
the area version (see the spell description, page 223). 

Traps are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 3 of the Dungeon 


dodges just right to avoid damage. A character who is doing nothing 


Master’s Guide. 


TA; 


FORGERY (INT) 


Use this skill to fake a written order from the duchess instructing 
a jailer to release prisoners, to create an authentic-looking treasure 
map, or to detect forgeries that others try to pass off. 

Check: Forgery requires writing materials appropriate to the | 


document being forged, enough light or sufficient visual acuity to _ 


_see the details of what you're writing, wax for seals (if appropriate), | 
[and some time. To forge a document on which the handwriting is, 
[not specific to a person (military orders, a government decree, a | 
business ledger, or the like), you need only to have seen a similar | 

| document before, and you gain a +8 bonus on your check. To forge | 

la signature, you need an autograph of that person to copy, and you 

„gain a +4 bonus on the check. To forge a longer document written 
in the hand of some particular person, a large sample of that 
person's handwriting is needed. 

Your DM makes your Forgery check secretly, so that you're not 
sure how good your forgery is. As with Disguise, you don't even 
need to make a check until someone examines the work. au 


Forgery check is opposed by the Forgery check of the person who | 


examines the document to check its authenticity. The examiner, 
gains modifiers on his or her check if any of the conditions on the | 
table below exist. 


Reader’s 
Condition Forgery Check Modifier 
Type of document unknown to reader -2 
| Type of document somewhat known to reader +0 
| Type of document well known to reader +2 
| Handwriting not known to reader -2 
| Handwriting somewhat known to reader +0 
| Handwriting intimately known to reader > +2 
| Reader only casually reviews the document -2 


LA document that contradicts procedure, orders, or previous 
knowledge, or one that requires sacrifice on the part of the person 
checking the document can increase that character’s suspicion 
(and thus create favorable circumstances for the checker’s oppos- 
ing Forgery check). 

Action: Forging a very short and simple document takes about | | 
1 minute. A longer or more complex document takes 1d4 minutes | 
per page. Ji 

Try Again: Usually, no. A retry is never possible after a particu- 
lar reader detects a particular forgery. But the document created 
by the forger might still fool someone else. The result of a Forgery 
check for a particular document must be used for every instance 
of a different reader examining the document. No reader can 
attempt to detect a particular forgery more than once; if that one 

„opposed check goes in favor of the forger, then the reader can't try 

lusing his own skill again, even if he’s suspicious about the docu- 

Lment.. 

| Special: If you have the Deceitful feat, you get a +2 bonus on 
Forgery checks. 

Restriction: Forgery is language- dependent; thus, to forge 
documents and detect forgeries, you must be able to read and 
write the language in question. A barbarian can't learn the Forgery 
skill unless he has learned to read and write. 


GATHER INFORMATION (cHA) 


Use this skill for making contacts in an area, finding out local 
‚gossip, rumormongering, and collecting general information. 
__ Check: An evening’s time, a few gold pieces for buying drinks 

and making friends, and a DC 10 Gather Information check get 

Tou a general idea of a city’s major news items, assuming there are 

{no obvious reasons why the information would be withheld. (Such 

‚reasons might include racial enmity—if you are an elf hanging out 
in an orc city, for example—or your inability to speak the local lan- | 
guage.) The higher your check result, the better the information. | 


If you want to find out about a specific rumor (“Which way to. 
the ruined temple of Erythnul?”) or a specific item (“What can you | 
tell me about that pretty sword the captain of the guard walks | 
around with?”), or obtain a map, or do something else along those | 

lines, the DC for the check is 15 to 25, or even higher. 

| Action: A typical Gather Information check takes 1d4+1 hours. 

| Try Again: Yes, but it takes time for each check. Furthermore, 
you may draw attention to yourself if you repeatedly pursue a cer- 
tain type of information. | 

Special: A half-elf has a +2 racial bonus on Gather Information | 

\checks, thanks to her ability to relate well to others. 

If you have the Investigator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Gather! 
Information checks. = 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (local), you. 
get a +2 bonus on Gather Information checks. 


+ 


HANDLE ANIMAL (CHA; TRAINED ONLY) 


| Use this skill to drive a team of horses pulling a wagon over rough . 
\terrain, to teach a dog to guard, or to teach a tyrannosaurus to, 
speak” on your command. 

Check: The DC depends on what you are trying to do. 


Task n _— Handle Animal DC 
Handle an animal 10 
“Push” an animal o 25 
Teach an animal a trick 15 or 20! 
Train an animal for a general purpose ees _15 or 20" | 


| Rear a wild animal 
1 See the specific trick or purpose below. 


15 + HD of animal | 


= 4 


General Purpose DC General Purpose DC | 
Combat riding 20 Hunting 2051 
Fighting 20 Performance 15 
Guarding 20 Riding 15 
Heavy labor 15 


Handle an Animal: This task involves commanding an animal to 
perform a task or trick that it knows. For instance, to command a 
trained attack dog to attack a foe requires a DC 10 Handle Animal 
check. If the animal is wounded or has taken any nonlethal 
damage or ability score damage, the DC increases by 2. If your 
check succeeds, the animal performs the task or trick on its next 
action. 

“Push” an Animal: To push an animal means to get it to perform 
a task or trick that it doesn't know but is physically capable of per- 
forming. This category also covers making an animal perform a 
forced march or forcing it to hustle for more than 1 hour between 
sleep cycles (see Chapter 9: Adventuring). If the animal is 
wounded or has taken any nonlethal damage or ability score 
damage, the DC increases by 2. If your check succeeds, the animal 
performs the task or trick on its next action. 

Teach an Animal a Trick: You can teach an animal a specific trick 
with one week of work and a successful Handle Animal check 
against the indicated DC. An animal with an Intelligence score of 
1 (such as a snake or a shark) can learn a maximum of three tricks, 
while an animal with an Intelligence score of 2 (such as a dog or a 
horse) can learn a maximum of six tricks. Possible tricks (and | 
their associated DCs) include, but are not necessarily limited to, | 
the following. == 5 

Attack (DC 20): The animal attacks apparent enemies. You may | 

_point to a particular creature that you wish the animal to attack, | 
and it will comply if able. Normally, an animal will attack only | 
humanoids, monstrous humanoids, giants, or other animals. | 

| Teaching an animal to attack all creatures (including such unnatu- 

l ral creatures as undead and aberrations) counts as two tricks. 

__ Come (DC 15): The animal comes to you, even if it normally 
would not do so (following you onto a boat, for example). 


Defend (DC 20): The animal defends you (or is ready to defend 
you if no threat is present), even without any command being 
given. Alternatively, you can command the animal to defend a spe- 
cific other character. z 

Down (DC 15): The animal breaks off from combat or otherwise 
backs down. An animal that doesn’t know this trick continues to | 

_fight until it must flee (due to injury, a fear effect, or the like) or its} 
opponent is defeated. 

Fetch (DC 15): The animal goes and gets something. If you do} 
¡not point out a specific item, the animal fetches some random 
object. 

_Guard (DC 20): The animal stays in place and prevents others 
„from approaching. 

Heel (DC 15): The animal follows you closely, even to places 
where it normally wouldn't go. 

Perform (DC 15): The animal performs a variety of simple tricks, 

„such as sitting up, rolling over, roaring or barking, and so on. 
Seek (DC 15): The animal moves into an area and looks ~ 
around for anything that is obviously alive or animate. $ %7 


= 


___ Stay (DC 15): The animal stays in place, waiting for you to Yate m ; 


return. It does not challenge other creatures that come by, 
though it still defends itself if it needs to. 

Track (DC 20): The animal tracks the scent presented to it. 
(This requires the animal to have the scent ability; see the Mon- 
ster Manual for details.) F 

Work (DC 15): The animal pulls or pushes a medium or / 
heavy load. f 

Train an Animal for a Purpose: Rather than teaching an | 
{animal individual tricks, you can simply train it for a gen- | f 
‘eral purpose. Essentially, an animal's purpose represents a } 

| preselected set of known tricks that fit into a common { 
scheme, such as guarding or heavy labor. The animal must $- 

_meet all the normal prerequisites for all tricks included in 

\the training package. If the package includes more than 
three tricks, the animal must have an Intelligence score of 2. 

An animal can be trained for only one general purpose, 
though if the creature is capable of learning additional tricks | 
(above and beyond those included in its general purpose), it may, 
do so. Training an animal for a purpose requires fewer checks | 
than teaching individual tricks does, but no less time. At your | 
DM's option, you may be able to train an animal for a purpose. 
that isn’t mentioned here. 

Combat Riding (DC 20): An animal trained to bear a rider into 
combat knows the tricks attack, come, defend, down, guard, and 
heel. Training an animal for combat riding takes six weeks. You 
may also “upgrade” an animal trained for riding to one trained for 
combat riding by spending three weeks and making a successful 

_DC 20 Handle Animal check. The new general purpose and tricks 

{completely replace the animal’s previous purpose and any tricks it 

Lonce knew. Warhorses and riding dogs (see the Monster Manual) 

Lare already trained to bear riders into combat, and they don't 
require any additional training for this purpose. 

Fighting (DC 20): An animal trained to engage in combat 
knows the tricks attack, down, and stay. Training an animal for 
fighting takes three weeks. 

Guarding (DC 20): An animal trained to guard knows the tricks 
attack, defend, down, and guard. Training an animal for guarding 
takes four weeks. E : 

Heavy Labor (DC 15): An animal trained for heavy labor knows 
_the tricks come and work. Training an animal for heavy labor takes 
two weeks. 

Hunting (DC 20): An animal trained for hunting knows the 

_\tricks attack, down, fetch, heel, seek, and track. Training an animal 
| for hunting takes six weeks. 

Performance (DC 15): An animal ‘trained for performance 
knows the tricks come, fetch, heel, perform, and stay. Training | 
an animal for performance takes five weeks. 


te 


+ 


Riding (DC 15): An animal trained to bear a rider knows the, 
tricks come, heel, and stay. Training an animal for riding takes | 
three weeks. 

Rear a Wild Animal: To rear an animal means to raise a med 
creature from infancy so that it becomes domesticated. A han- 
idler can rear as many as three creatures of the same kind at once. 
LA successfully domesticated animal can be taught tricks at the 

same time it’s being raised, or it can be taught as a domesticated 
animal later. 

Action: Varies. Handling an animal is a move action, while | 
| pushing an animal is a full-round action. (A druid or ranger can] J 

handle her animal companion as a free action or push it as a move 
action.) For tasks with specific time frames noted above, you must 
spend half this time (at the rate of 3 hours per day per animal, 
being handled) working toward completion of the task before you | 
attempt the Handle Animal check. If the check fails, your attempt 
|_to teach, rear, or train the animal fails and you need not complete 
z~ the teaching, rearing, or training time. If the check succeeds, , 
you must invest the remainder of the time to complete the, 
teaching, rearing, or training. If the time is interrupted or the 
task is not followed through to completion, the attempt to, 
teach, rear, or train the animal automatically fails. _ 
Try Again: Yes, except for rearing an animal. _ 

Special: You can use this skill on a creature with an 
Intelligence score of 1 or 2 that is not an animal, but the 
DC of any such check increases by 5. Such creatures. 

have the same limit on tricks known as animals do. The | 
Monster Manual provides information on teaching or | 
training other kinds of creatures as appropriate. 
A druid or ranger gains a +4 circumstance bonus | 
_ on Handle Animal checks involving her animal com-| 
>) panion. In addition, a druid’s or ranger’s animal | 
companion knows one or more bonus tricks, which. 
don’t count against the normal limit on tricks 
known and don’t require any training time or Handle 
Animal checks to teach. 
If you have the Animal Affinity feat, you get a 
Handle Animal checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Handle Animal, you 
get a +2 bonus on Ride checks and wild empathy checks. 
Untrained: If you have no ranks in Handle Animal, you can 
use a Charisma check to handle and push domestic animals, but 
you can't teach, rear, or train animals. A druid or ranger with no 
ranks in Handle Animal can use a Charisma check to handle and 
push her animal companion, but she can't teach, rear, or train 
other nondomestic animals. 


HEAL (wis) 
Use this skill to keep a badly wounded friend from dying, to help 


+ 


+2 bon nus on 


cumbing to a wyvern’s poison sting, or to treat disease. 
Check: The DC and effect depend on the task you attempt. 


Task Heal DC 
First aid 15 
Long-term care 15 
Treat wound from caltrop, spike growth, or spike stones 154 


Poison’s save DC | 
Disease’s save DC | 


Treat poison 
Treat disease 


First Aid: You usually use first aid to save a dying character. If a | 
character has negative hit points and is losing hit points (at the | 
rate of 1 per round, 1 per hour, or 1 per day), you can make him or | 

‘her stable. A stable character regains no hit points but stops losing | 
them. (See Dying, page 145.) 

Long-Term Care: Providing long-term care means treating a 
wounded person for a day or more. If your Heal check is success- 


+ 


1G 


ful, the patient recovers hit points or ability score points (lost to 


ability damage) at twice the normal rate: 2 hit points per level for a 
full 8 hours of rest in a day, or 4 hit points per level for each full 
day of complete rest; 2 ability score points for a full 8 hours of rest 


in a day, or 4 ability score points for each full day of complete rest. 
You can tend as many as six patients at a time. You need a few _ 
[items and supplies (bandages, salves, and so on) that are easy to} 


come by in settled lands. 


| Giving long-term care counts as light activity for the healer. You] } 


¿cannot give long-term care to yourself. _ 


+ 


|__Treat Wound from Caltrop, Spike Growth, or Spike Stones: A creature | 


{wounded by stepping on a caltrop moves at one-half normal 
_speed. A successful Heal check removes this movement penalty. 

A creature wounded by a spike growth or spike stones spell must 
succeed on a Reflex save or take injuries that reduce his speed by 
one-half. Another character can remove this penalty by taking 10 

¿minutes to dress the victim's injuries and succeeding on a Heal 
,check against the spell’s save DC. 

Treat Poison: To treat poison means to tend a single character 
who has been poisoned and who is going to take more damage 
| from the poison (or suffer some other effect). Every time the poi- 
soned character makes a saving throw against the poison, you 
make a Heal check. The poisoned character uses your check result 
or his or her saving throw, whichever is higher. 

Treat Disease: To treat a disease means to tend a single diseased 
character. Every time he or she makes a saving throw against dis- 

Lease effects, you make a Heal check. The diseased character uses 
[your check result or his or her saving throw, whichever is higher. 
Action: Providing first aid, treating a wound, or treating 
[poison is a standard action. Treating a disease or tending a crea- 
iture wounded by a spike growth or spike stones spell takes 10 min- 
Lutes of work. Providing long-term care requires 8 hours of light 
„activity. 
| Try Again: Varies. Generally speaking, you can't try a Heal 
check again without proof of the original check’s failure. For 
instance, until a poisoned character makes a saving throw against 


| 
f 
| 


i 


the poisoned wound you've treated, you can't know whether your . 


Heal check was successful or not, so you can't retry the check. You, 
the previous attempt is still alive. 

Special: A character with the Self-Sufficient feat gets a Pil 
bonus on Heal checks. a 

A healer’s kit (page 130) gives you a +2 circumstance bonus on 
Heal checks. 


HIDE (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 


Use this skill to sink back into the shadows and proceed unseen, 
„to approach a wizard’s tower under cover of brush, or to tail some- 
Lone through a busy street without being noticed. 

L Check: Your Hide check is opposed by the Spot check of 
_anyone who might see you. You can move up to one-half your 
normal speed and hide at no penalty. When moving at a speed 
greater than one-half but not greater than your normal speed, you 
take a —5 penalty. It’s practically impossible (-20 penalty) to hide 
while attacking, running or charging. 

For example, Lidda has a speed of 20 feet. If she doesn’t want to 
take a penalty on her Hide check, she can move only 10 feet as a 
move action (up to a maximum of 20 feet in a round), 

A creature larger or smaller than Medium takes a size bonus or 
_penalty on Hide checks depending on its size category: Fine +16, 
_Diminutive +12, Tiny +8, Small +4, Large —4, Huge —8, Gargantuan 

—12, Colossal—16. _ 

You need cover or concealment (see pages 150-152) in order to 
lattempt a Hide check. Total cover or total concealment usually 
‚(but not always; see Special, below) obviates the need for a Hide 

check, since nothing can see you anyway. 


If people are observing you, even casually, you can't hide. You 


4 
lof movement, so it doesn't take a separate action. However, hiding, 
immediately after a ranged attack (see Sniping, above) is a move 


can run around a corner or behind cover so that you're out of sight , 
and then hide, but the others then know at least where you went. | 
If your observers are momentarily distracted (such as by a Bluff | 
check; see below), though, you can attempt to hide. While the. 


Lothers turn their attention from you, you can attempt a Hide 
check if you can get to a hiding place of some kind. (As a general 
‚guideline, the hiding place has to be within 1 foot per rank you 


have in Hide.) This check, however, is made at a —10 penalty 
because you have to move fast. 
Sniping: If you've already successfully hidden at least 10 feet | 


\from your target, you can make one ranged attack, then immedi- | 


ately hide again. You take a —20 penalty on your Hide check to 
conceal yourself after the shot. 

Creating a Diversion to Hide: You can use Bluff (page 62) to help, 
you hide. A successful Bluff check can give you the momentary | 
diversion you need to attempt a Hide check while people are 
aware of you. 

Action: Usually none. Normally, you make a Hide check as s part; 


action. 

Special: If you are invisible, you gain a +40 bonus on Hide | 
checks if you are immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if 
youre moving. s 

Ifyou have the Stealthy feat, you get a +2 bonus on Hide checks. 

A 13th-level ranger can attempt a Hide check in any sort of nat- 
ural terrain, even if it doesn't grant cover or concealment. A 17th- | 


¡level ranger can do this even while being observed (see page 48)... 


— — + 


ALLA ee | 


Use this skill to get a bully to back down, to frighten a an opponent, | 
or to make a prisoner give you the information you want. Intimi-_ 
dation includes verbal threats and body language. J 

Check: You can change another’s behavior with a successful 
check. Your Intimidate check is opposed by the target’s modified 
level check (1d20 + character level or Hit Dice + target's Wisdom 
beat your target’s check result, you may treat the target as 
friendly, but only for the purpose of actions taken while it 
remains intimidated. (That is, the target retains its normal atti- 
tude, but will chat, advise, offer limited help, or advocate on your 
behalf while intimidated. See the Diplomacy skill, above, for 
additional details.) The effect lasts as long as the target remains in 
your presence, and for 1d6x10 minutes afterward. After this time, 
the target's default attitude toward you shifts to unfriendly (or, if 
normally unfriendly, to hostile). 

If you fail the check by 5 or more, the target provides you with 
incorrect or useless information, or otherwise frustrates your efforts. 

Demoralize Opponent: You can also use Intimidate to weaken an 
opponent's resolve in combat. To do so, make an Intimidate check 
opposed by the target’s modified level check (see above). If you 
win, the target becomes shaken for 1 round. A shaken character 
takes a —2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and 
ability checks. You can intimidate only an opponent that you 
threaten in melee combat and that can see you. 

Action: Varies. Changing another's behavior requires 1 minute 
of interaction. Intimidating an opponent in combat is a standard | 
action. 

Try Again: Optional, but not recommended because retries | | 
usually do not work. Even if the initial check succeeds, the other | 


character can be intimidated only so far, and a retry doesn't help. If] 


the initial check fails, the other character has probably become | 4 
more firmly resolved to resist the intimidator, and a retry is futile. | 
Special: You gain a +4 bonus on your Intimidate check for 


every size category that you are larger than your target. Con- 
iversely, you take a —4 penalty on your Intimidate check for every 


size category that you are smaller than your target. 


A character immune to fear (such as a paladin of 3rd level or 
higher) can't be intimidated, nor can nonintelligent creatures. 

If you have the Persuasive feat, you get a +2 bonus on Intimidate 
checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2) 
bonus on Intimidate checks. 


+ 


+ 


JUMP (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
(Use this skill to leap over pits, vault low fences, or reach a tree's | 
lowest branches. 

Check: The DC and the distance you can cover vary according | 

to the type of jump you are attempting (see below). 

Your Jump check is modified by your speed. If your speed is 30 
feet (the speed of an unarmored human), then no modifier based 
on speed applies to the check. If your speed is less than 30 feet, 
you take a —6 penalty for every 10 feet of speed less than 30 feet. If 

_your speed is greater than 30 feet, you gain a +4 bonus for every 10 
feet beyond 30 feet. For instance, if you have a speed of 20 feet, you | 
| take a —6 penalty on your Jump checks. If, on the other hand, your | 
[speed is 50 feet, you gain a +8 bonus. 

All Jump DCs given here assume that you get a running start, | 
which requires that you move at least 20 feet in a straight line 
before attempting the jump. If you do not get a running start, the 
DC for the jump is doubled. 

Distance moved by jumping is counted against your normal 
maximum movement in a round. For example, Krusk has a speed 

Lof 40 feet. If he moves 30 feet, then jumps across a 10-foot-wide 
ichasm, he’s then moved 40 feet total, so that’s his move action. 

If you have ranks in Jump and you succeed on a Jump check, 

| you land on your feet (when appropriate). If you attempt a Jump 
check untrained, you land prone unless you beat the DC by 5 or 
| more. 

Long Jump: A long jump is a horizontal j jump, made across a gap 

\like a chasm or stream. At the midpoint of the jump, you attain a 
vertical height equal to one-quarter of the horizontal distance. The 
DC for the jump is equal to the distance jumped (in feet). For 
example, a 10-foot-wide pit requires a DC 10 Jump check to cross. 

If your check succeeds, you land on your feet at the far end. If. 
you fail the check by less than 5, you don’t clear the distance, but | 


you can make a DC 15 Reflex save to grab the far edge of the gap. | 


You end your movement grasping the far edge. If that leaves you. 
dangling over a chasm or gap, getting up requires a move action 
and a DC 15 Climb check. 


Long Jump Distance Jump DC’ 
5 feet 5 
10 feet 10 
_15 feet 15 
120 feet 20 È 
125 feet 25 
130 feet 30 


1 Requires a 20-foot running start. Without a running start, double 
the DC. 


High Jump: A high jump is a vertical leap made to reach a ledge 
high above or to grasp something overhead, such as a tree limb. 
The DC is equal to 4 times the distance to be cleared. For 
example, the DC for a high jump to land atop a 3-foot-high ledge 
is 12 (3 X 4). 

If you jumped up to grab something, a successful check indi- 
_cates that you reached the desired height. If you wish to pull your- 
jself up, you can do so with a move action and a DC 15 Climb 
check. If you fail the Jump check, you do not reach the height, and 
with a long jump, the DC is doubled if you do not get a aae 
start of at least 20 feet. 


High Jump Distance’ Jump DC? | 
1 foot 4 | 
2 feet 8 B, 
3 feet 12 $ 
14 feet l6. 
15 feet 20 
16 feet 24 
7 feet 28 
8 feet 32 


¿1 Not including vertical reach; see below. 
|2 Requires a 20-foot running start. Without a running start, double 

the DC. — 
Obviously, the difficulty of reaching a given height varies accord- , 
ing to the size of the character or creature. The maximum vertical | 
reach (height the creature can reach without jumping) for an aver- 


Lage creature of a given size is shown on the table below. (As a 
| Medium creature, a typical human can reach 8 feet without jump-, 
ling.) Quadrupedal creatures (such as horses) don't have the same, 
ivertical reach as a bipedal creature; treat them as being one size 


category smaller. 


Creature Size Vertical Reach 


Colossal 128 ft. 

Gargantuan 64 ft. — 

Huge 32 ft. 
Large 16 ft. = = | 
¿Medium 8 ft. 4 
Small 4 ft. = 4 
Tiny 2 ft. | 
Diminutive 1 ft. _| 
Fine 1/2 ft. | 


+ 

Hop Up: You can jump up onto an object as tall as your waist, | 
such as a table or small boulder, with a DC 10 Jump check. Doing 
so counts as 10 feet of movement, so if your speed is 30 feet, you 
could move 20 feet, then hop up onto a counter. You do not need 
to get a running start to hop up, so the DC is not doubled if you do 
not get a running start. 

Jumping Down: If you intentionally jump froma height, you take 
less damage than you would if you just fell. The DC to jump down 
from a height is 15. You do not have to get a running start to jump 
down, so the DC is not doubled if you do not get a running start. 

If you succeed on the check, you take falling damage as if you 
had dropped 10 fewer feet than you actually did. Thus, if you jump 
down from a height of just 10 feet, you take no damage. If you 
jump down from a height of 20 feet, you take damage as if you had 
fallen 10 feet. 

Action: None. A Jump check is included in your movement, so 
it is part of a move action. If you run out of movement mid-jump, 
your next action (either on this turn or, if necessary, on your next 
turn) must be a move action to complete the jump. 

Special: Effects that increase your movement also increase 
your jumping distance, since your check is modified by your 
speed. 

If you have the Run feat, you get a +4 bonus on Jump checks for 
any jumps made after a running start. | 

A halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Jump checks because half- | 
lings are agile and athletic. 

If you have the Acrobatic feat, you get a +2 bonus on Jump] 


checks. 


Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Tumble, you geta a2] 4 
bonus on Jump checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Jump, you get a +2 bonus on! 


4 


[Tumble checks. 


KNOWLEDGE (INT; TRAINED ONLY)  ăć 


Like the Craft and Profession skills, Knowledge actually en encom- 
passes a number of unrelated skills. Knowledge represents a study 
of some body of lore, possibly an academic or even scientific disci- 
pline. Below are listed typical fields of study. With your DM's ap- . 
proval, you can invent new areas of knowledge. : 

(e Arcana (ancient mysteries, magic traditions, arcane symbols, } 

cryptic phrases, constructs, dragons, magical beasts) —4 

[e Architecture and engineering amend aqueducts, bridges, | 

fortifications) = } 

[e Dungeoneering (aberrations, caverns, oozes, spelunking) 

\* Geography (lands, terrain, climate, people) 

‚e History (royalty, wars, colonies, migrations, founding of cities) 

* Local (legends, personalities, inhabitants, laws, customs, tradi- 
tions, humanoids) 

e Nature (animals, fey, giants, monstrous humanoids, plants, 

seasons and cycles, weather, vermin) 

* Nobility and royalty (lineages, heraldry, family trees, mottoes, 

| personalities) __ i 

* Religion (gods and goddesses, mythic history, ecclesiastic tradi- 
tion, holy symbols, undead) 

° The planes (the Inner Planes, the Outer Planes, the Astral Plane, 
the Ethereal Plane, outsiders, elementals, magic related to the 
planes) 

Check: Answering a question within your field of study has a 
DC of 10 (for really easy questions), 15 (for basic questions), or 20 
to 30 (for really tough questions). 
| In many cases, you can use this skill to identify monsters and 
itheir special powers or vulnerabilities. In general, the DC of such 

la check equals 10 + the monster’s HD. A successful check allows 

[you to remember a bit of useful information about that monster. 

lFor every 5 points by which your check result exceeds the DC, the 

_DM can give another piece of useful information. 

Action: Usually none. In most cases, making a Knowledge 

(check doesn't take an action—you simply know the answer or you 

don't. 

Try Again: No. The check represents what you know, and. 
thinking about a topic a second time doesn't let you know some- 
thing that you never learned in the first place. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge Gana 
you get a +2 bonus on Spellcraft checks. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (architecture ad] 
engineering), you get a +2 bonus on Search checks made to find 
secret doors or hidden compartments. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (geography), you get 
a +2 bonus on Survival checks made to keep from getting lost or to 
avoid natural hazards. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (history), you get a 

1+2 bonus on bardic knowledge checks (see page 28). 

___If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (local), you get a +2 

_bonus on Gather Information checks._ 


LISTEN (wis) 


bonus on Survival checks made in aboveground natural environ-| 
ments (aquatic, desert, forest, hill, marsh, mountains, or plains). | 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (nobility and roy-. 


ialty), you get a +2 bonus on Diplomacy checks. 
| Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (religion), you get a 
\+2 bonus on turning checks against undead (see page 159). 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (the planes), you get 
a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while on other planes. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (dungeoneering), 


+ 


lyou get a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while underground. | 


If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you get a +2 bonus on 
Knowledge (nature) checks. as 
Untrained: An untrained Knowledge check is simply an Intel- , 


ligence check. Without actual training, you know only common | 


knowledge (DC 10 or lower). 


\Use this skill to hear approaching enemies, to detect someone, 
_sneaking up on you from behind, or to eavesdrop on someone 
else’s conversation. 


Check: Your Listen check is either made against a DC that, 


reflects how quiet the noise is that you might hear, or it is opposed 
by your target’s Move Silently check. 

Your DM may decide to make the Listen c heck for: you, so that 
you don't know whether not hearing anything means that nothing 
is there, or that you failed the check. 


Listen DC Sound a 
-10 A battle 
0 People talking! 
5 A person in medium armor walking at a slow pace 
(10 ft./round) trying not to make any noise. 
10 An unarmored person walking at a slow pace 
(15 ft./round) trying not to make any noise 
15 A \st-level rogue using Move Silently to sneak past the 
listener 
15 People whispering! 
19 A cat stalking 
30 An owl gliding in for a kill 


1 If you beat the DC by 10 or more, you can make out what’s being 
said, assuming that you understand the language. 
Listen DC Modifier Condition 


+5 Through a door 

+15 Through a stone wall 
+1 Per 10 feet of distance 
+5 Listener distracted 


In the case of people trying to be quiet, the DCs given on the table 
could be replaced by Move Silently checks, in which case the indi- 


PLAYER KNOWLEDGE VERSUS 

CHARACTER KNOWLEDGE 

It’s pretty simple to measure a character's knowledge of things the 
player doesn’t know. That’s what a Knowledge skill check represents— 
for instance, the player of a character with many ranks in Knowledge 
(geography) isn’t required to memorize all the geographical data about 
the campaign world to use his character’s skill ranks. 

The opposite case, however, is harder to adjudicate cleanly. What 
happens when a player knows something that his or her character does 
not have any reason to know? For instance, while most veteran players 
know that black dragons breathe acid, it’s entirely likely that most inex- 
perienced characters don’t know that fact. 


Generally speaking, it’s impossible to separate completely your 
personal knowledge (also called player knowledge) from your charac- 
ters knowledge. Ultimately, the decision on how (or if) to divide 
player knowledge from character knowledge must be made between 
the players and the DM. Some DMs encourage knowledgeable players 
to use their experience to help their characters succeed. Others prefer 
that characters display only the knowledge represented by their skill 
ranks and other game statistics. Most fall somewhere between those 
two extremes. 

If in doubt, ask your DM how he or she prefers to handle such 
situations. The Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on 
this topic. 


+ 


a 


ee me A., 


cated DC would be their average check result (or close to it). For 
instance, the DC 19 noted on the table for a cat stalking means 
that an average cat has a +9 bonus on Move Silently checks. 
Assuming an average roll of 10 on 1d20, its Move Silently check 
result would be 19. | 
Action: Varies. Every time you have a chance to hear some- } 
thing in a reactive manner (such as when someone makes a noise | 
Lor you move into a new area), you can make a Listen check with- | 
Lout using an action. Trying to hear something you failed to hear) 
„previously is a move action. 

Try Again: Yes. You can try to hear something that you failed tol 
_hear previously with no penalty. 

Special: When several characters are listening to the same 
thing, the DM can make a single 1d20 roll and use it for all the 
individuals’ Listen checks. 

A fascinated creature takes a —4 penalty on Listen checks made 

„as reactions. 
¿If you have the Alertness feat, you get a +2 bonus on Listen} 
ichecks, —— $ 

A ranger gains a bonus on Listen checks when using this skill 
against a favored enemy (see page 47). 

An elf, gnome, or halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Listen 
checks, thanks to the keen ears with which members of those 
races are blessed. 

A half-elf has a +1 racial bonus on Listen checks. Her hearing 
is good because of her elven heritage, but not as keen as that of a 

full elf. 
| A sleeping character may make Listen checks at a—10 penalty. A 
| successful check awakens the sleeper. 


MOVE SILENTLY (DEX; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
You can use this skill to sneak up behind an enemy or to slink 
_away without being noticed. 

Check: Your Move Silently check is opposed by the Listen 
check of anyone who might hear you. You can move up to one-half 
your normal speed at no penalty. When moving at a speed greater 
than one-half but not greater than your full speed, you take a —5_ 
penalty. It’s practically impossible (-20 penalty) to move silently. 
while running or charging. | 

Noisy surfaces, such as bogs or undergrowth, are tough to move | 
silently across. When you try to sneak across such a surface, you | 
take a penalty on your Move Silently check as indicated below. 


Surface = Check Modifier 

Noisy (scree, shallow or deep bog, undergrowth, -2 
dense rubble) 

Very noisy (dense undergrowth, deep snow) -5 


Action: None. A Move Silently check is included in your move- 
ment or other activity, so it is part of another action. 
Special: The master of a cat familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, 
page 52) gains a +3 bonus on Move Silently checks. 
A halfling has a +2 racial bonus on Move Silently checks 
because halflings are nimble. 
If you have the Stealthy feat, you get a +2 bonus on Move 
Silently checks. 


OPEN LOCK (DEX; TRAINED ONLY) l 
You can pick padlocks, finesse combination locks, and solve 
, puzzle locks. The effort requires at least a simple tool of the appro- 
_priate sort (a pick, pry bar, blank key, wire, or the like). Attempting 
an Open Lock check without a set of thieves’ tools (page 130) 
_\imposes a —2 circumstance penalty on the check, even if a simple 
| tool is employed. If you use masterwork thieves’ tools, you gain a 
+2 circumstance bonus on the check. 
Check: The DC for opening a lock varies from 20 to 40, depend- | 
ing on the quality of the lock, as given on the table below. 


+ 


PERFORM (CHA) 


Lock DC Lock DC | 
Very simple lock 20 Good lock 30 f 
Average lock — 25 Amazing lock 40 | 


Action: Opening a lock is a full-round action. 
Special: Ifyou have the Nimble Fingers feat, you get a +2 bonus 


Lon Open Lock checks. 


Untrained: You cannot pick locks untrained, but you might 
successfully force them open (see Smashing an Object, page 165). 


——— — 
+ 


You are skilled in a type of artistic expression, which may encom- 
pass a variety of specific methods, and you know how to put on a 
show. 

Like Craft, Knowledge, and Profession, Perform is actually al al 
number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill 


Perform (act). Your ranks in that skill don't affect any checks you 
happen to make for Perform (oratory) or Perform (string instru-, 
iments). You could have several Perform skills, each with its own, 
ranks, each purchased as a separate skill. 


Each of the nine categories of the Perform skill includes a vari- , 
ety of methods, instruments, or techniques, a small list of which is. 
provided for each category below. The DM is free to expand any of 
these categories with additional methods, instruments, or tech- 
niques, as appropriate for his or her campaign. __ 

Act (comedy, drama, mime) 

Comedy (buffoonery, limericks, joke-telling) — | 
Dance (ballet, waltz, jig) k 
Keyboard instruments (harpsichord, piano, pipe argan) | 
Oratory (epic, ode, storytelling) 

Percussion instruments (bells, chimes, drums, gong) 
String instruments (fiddle, harp, lute, mandolin) aol 
Wind instruments (flute, pan pipes, recorder, shawm, trumpet), 
Sing (ballad, chant, melody) 


Check: You can impress audiences with your talent and 
skill. a 
Perform 

DC Performance 

10 Routine performance. Trying to earn money by playing in 
public is essentially begging. You can earn 1d10 cp/day. 

15 Enjoyable performance. In a prosperous city, you can earn 
1d10 sp/day.. a 

20 Great performance. In a prosperous city, you can earn 
3d10 sp/day. In time, you may be invited to join a pro- 
fessional troupe and may develop a regional reputation. 

25 Memorable performance. In a prosperous city, you can 
earn 1d6 gp/day. In time, you may come to the attention of 
noble patrons and develop a national reputation. 

30 Extraordinary performance. In a prosperous city, you can 
earn 3d6 gp/day. In time, you may draw attention from 
distant potential patrons, or even from extraplanar beings. 


A masterwork musical instrument (page 130) gives you a +2 cir- 
cumstance bonus on Perform checks that involve its use. 

Action: Varies. Trying to earn money by playing in public | 
requires anywhere from an evening's work to a full day’s perform- | 
ance, at the DM's discretion. The bard's special Perform-based abil- | 
ities are described in that class's description (page 29). - | 

Try Again: Yes. Retries are allowed, but they don't negate previ- | 
ous failures, and an audience that has been unimpressed in the | 
past is likely to be prejudiced against future performances.) | 


| (Increase the DC by 2 for each previous failure.) 


Special: A bard must have at least 3 ranks in a Perform skill to 


l inspire courage in his allies, or to use his countersong or his fasci- 


nate ability. A bard needs 6 ranks in a Perform skill to inspire com- 


79 


petence, 9 ranks to use his suggestion ability, 12 ranks to inspire 
greatness, 15 ranks to use his song of freedom ability, 18 ranks to 
inspire heroics, and 21 ranks to use his mass suggestion ability. See 
Bardic Music in the bard class description, page 29. 
In addition to using the Perform skill, you can entertain people | 
with sleight of hand, tumbling, tightrope walking, and spells 
(especially illusions). 


PROFESSION (wis; TRAINED ONLY) 


You are trained in a livelihood or a professional role, such at 
apothecary, boater, bookkeeper, brewer, cook, driver, farmer, | 
fisher, guide, herbalist, herder, hunter, innkeeper, lumberjack, 
‚miller, miner, porter, rancher, sailor, scribe, siege engineer, stable- 
hand, tanner, teamster, woodcutter, or the like. 

Like Craft, Knowledge, and Perform, Profession is actually a 
number of separate skills. For instance, you could have the skill 
„Profession (cook). Your ranks in that skill don't affect any Profes- 


4- 
+ 
+ 


[purchased as a separate skill. | 
While a Craft skill represents ability in creating or making an | 
item, a Profession skill represents an aptitude in a vocation requir- 
ing a broader range of less specific knowledge. To draw a modern 
analogy, if an occupation is a service industry, 
it’s probably a Profession skill. If it’s in the 
manufacturing sector, it’s probably a Craft 
skill. 7 
| Check: You can practice your trade and 
make a decent living, earning about half your 
[Profession check result in gold pieces per 
|week of dedicated work. You know how to use 
ithe tools of your trade, how to perform the —__ 
_profession's daily tasks, how to supervise helpers, and 
how to handle common problems. For example, a 
‘sailor knows how to tie several basic knots, how to 
tend and repair sails, and how to stand a deck 
watch at sea. The DM sets DCs for specialized __ 
tasks, 
Action: Not applicable. A single 
check generally represents a week of <> 
work. 
Try Again: Varies. An attempt to use a Pro- 
fession skill to earn an income cannot be retried. 
You are stuck with whatever weekly wage your check result 
brought you. Another check may be made after a week to deter- 
mine a new income for the next period of time. An attempt to 
accomplish some specific task can usually be retried. 
Untrained: Untrained laborers and assistants (that is, charac- 
ters without any ranks in Profession) earn an average of 1 silver 
| piece per day. 


+ 
RIDE (DEX) s 
You can ride a mount, be it a horse, riding dog, griffon, dragon, or 
some other kind of creature suited for riding. If you attempt to 
ride a creature that is ill suited as a mount (such as most bipedal 
creatures), you take a —5 penalty on your Ride checks. 
Check: Typical riding actions don't require checks. You can 

saddle, mount, ride, and dismount from a mount without a prob- 
lem. The following tasks do require checks. 


(Task _ Ride DC Task Ride DC 
| Guide with knees 5 Leap 15 
{stay in saddle_ 5 Spur mount 15 
| Fight with warhorse 10 Control mount in battle 20 
_Cover 15 Fast mount or dismount 20! 
Soft fall 15 ii 


1 Armor check penalty applies. 


Guide with Knees: You can react instantly to guide your mount, 
with your knees so that you can use both hands in combat. Make | 
your Ride check at the start of your turn. If you fail, you can use | 
only one hand this round because you need to use the other to. 

control your mount. 

|} Stay in Saddle: You can react instantly to try to avoid falling 
¿when your mount rears or bolts unexpectedly or when you take 
damage. This usage does not take an action. 

Fight with Warhorse: If you direct your war-trained mount to | 
„attack in battle, you can still make your own attack or attacks nor- | 
| mally. This usage is a free action. = } 

Cover: You can react instantly to drop down and hang along- 
side your mount, using it as cover. You can't attack or cast spells 
while using your mount as cover. If you fail your Ride check, , 
you don't get the cover benefit. This usage does not take an| 
action. 

| Soft Fall: You can react instantly to try to take no damage when 
‘you fall off a mount—when it is killed or when it falls, for, 
example. If you fail your Ride check, you take 1dé points of falling, 
damage. This usage does not take an action. 

Leap: You can get your mount to leap obstacles as part of its 
movement. Use your Ride modifier or the mount’s Jump modi-_ 
fier, whichever is lower, to see how far the creature can jump. If 
you fail your Ride check, you fall off the mount when it leaps 

and take the appropriate falling damage (at least 1d6 points). 
This usage does not take an action, but is 
part of the mount’s movement. 

Spur Mount: You can spur your. 

mount to greater speed with a] 


move action. A successful Ride | 
check increases the mount’s speed | 
by 10 feet for 1 round but deals 1| 


A point of damage to the creature. | 
You can use this ability every 
round, but each consecutive 
round of additional speed deals 
twice as much damage to the 
mount as the previous round (2 
points, 4 points, 8 points, and so 
on). 
Control Mount in Battle: As a 
W moye action, you can attempt to con- 
trol a light horse, pony, heavy horse, or 
other mount not trained for combat riding while in battle. If you 
fail the Ride check, you can do nothing else in that round. You do 
not need to roll for warhorses or warponies. 

Fast Mount or Dismount: You can attempt to mount or dismount 
from a mount of up to one size category larger than yourself as a 
free action, provided that you still have a move action available 
that round. If you fail the Ride check, mounting or dismounting is 
a move action. You can't use fast mount or dismount on a mount 
more than one size category larger than yourself. 

Action: Varies. Mounting or dismounting normally is a move 
action. Other checks are a move action, a free action, or no action 
at all, as noted above. = 

Special: If you are riding bareback, you take a —5 penalty on 
Ride checks. os 

If your mount has a military saddle (page 132), you get a +2 cir- | 
cumstance bonus on Ride checks related to staying in the saddle. | 

The Ride skill is a prerequisite for the feats Mounted. 

Archery, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack, Spirited Charge, | 

Trample. See the appropriate feat descriptions in Chapter 5:1 

Feats for details. : 7 { 
If you have the Animal Affinity feat, you get a +2 bonus on 

Ride checks. 

__ Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Handle Animal, you 

get a +2 bonus on Ride checks. 


+ 


+ 


SEARCH (INT) 


You can find secret doors, simple traps, hidden compartments, and 
other details not readily apparent. The Spot skill lets you notice 
something, such as a hiding rogue. The Search skill lets a character 


discern some small detail or irregularity through active effort. 
Search does not allow you to find complex traps unless you are | 


_a rogue (see Restriction, below). 
| Check: You generally must be within 10 feet of the object orl 


L surface to be searched. The table below gives DCs for typical tasks} 


_involving the Search skill. 


Task 

_Ransack a chest full of junk to find a certain item 10 
Notice a typical secret door or a simple trap 20 
Find a difficult nonmagical trap (rogue only)! 21 or higher 


Find a magic trap (rogue only)" 25 + level of spell 


used to create trap 


Notice a walk hidden saaal door 30 | 
Varies? | 


| Find a footprint — 

1 Dwarves (even if they are not rogues) can use Search to find traps 
built into or out_of stone. 

2 A successful Search check can find a footprint or similar sign of a 
creature’s passage, but it won’t let you find or follow a trail. See the 
Track feat for the appropriate DC. 


Action: It takes a full-round action to search a 5-foot-by-5-foot 
Larea or a volume of goods 5 feet on a side. 
| Special: An elf has a +2 racial bonus on Search checks, and a 
\half-elf has a +4 racial bonus. An elf (but nota half-elf) who simply 
| passes within 5 feet of a secret or concealed door can make a 
Search check to find that door. 

If you have the Investigator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Search 
checks. 

The spells explosive runes, fire trap, glyph of warding, teleportation 
circle, and all symbol spells create magic traps that a rogue can find 
by making a successful Search check and then can attempt to 


spell has a DC of 23. Spike growth and spike stones create magic traps. } 
that can be found using Search, but against which Disable Device | 
checks do not succeed. See the individual spell descriptions in _ 


Chapter 11: Spells for details. 


Active abjuration spells within 10 feet of each other for 24 


hours or more create barely visible energy fluctuations. These fluc- 
tuations give you a +4 bonus on Search checks to locate such abju- 
ration spells. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Search, you get a +2 
bonus on Survival checks to find or follow tracks. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (architecture and 
lengineering), you get a +2 bonus on Search checks to find secret 
_doors or hidden compartments. 

Restriction: While anyone can use Search to find a trap whose 
DC is 20 or lower, only a rogue can use Search to locate traps with 
higher DCs. (Exception: The spell find traps temporarily enables a 
cleric to use the Search skill as if he were a rogue.) 

A dwarf, even one who is not a rogue, can use the Search skill to 
find a difficult trap (one with a DC higher than 20) if the trap is 
built into or out of stone. He gains a +2 racial bonus on the Search 
check from his stonecunning ability. 


SENSE MOTIVE (wis) 


Use this skill to tell when someone is bluffing you, to discern 
hidden messages in conversations, or to sense when someone 
lis being magically influenced. This skill represents sensitivity 


ito the body language, speech habits, and mannerisms of 


others. 


Check: A successful check lets you avoid being bluffed (see | 
the Bluff skill, page 67). You can also use this skill to determine | 


Search DC 


when “something is up” (that is, something odd is going on) or to, 
assess someone's trustworthiness. Your DM may decide to make | 
your Sense Motive check secretly, so that you don't necessarily | 


know whether you were successful. | 
4 
| Task Sense Motive DC 

| Hunch 20 

Sense enchantment = 25.0r 15 

Discern secret message Varies 


Hunch: This use of the skill involves making a gut assessment of | 
the social situation. You can get the feeling from another's behav- 
ior that something is wrong, such as when youre talking to an 
impostor. Alternatively, you can get the commu someone is | 
trustworthy. 

Sense Enchantment: You can tell that someone's behavior is being| 


_influenced by an enchantment effect (by definition, a mind-affect- 


+ 


ing effect), such as charm person, even if that person isn't aware of , 


lit. The usual DC is 25, but if the target is dominated (see dominate, 


person in Chapter 11: Spells), the DC is only 15 because of the lim- 


ited range of the target's activities. 

Discern Secret Message: You may use Sense Motive to detect that a | 
hidden message is being transmitted via the Bluff skill. In this 
case, your Sense Motive check is opposed by the Bluff check of the 
character transmitting the message. For each piece of information 
relating to the message that you are missing, you take a—2 penalty 
on your Sense Motive check. For example, if you eavesdrop on | 


.people planning to assassinate a visiting diplomat, you take a —2 | 


_doing it unnoticed. 


penalty on your check if you don't know about the diplomat. If) 
you succeed by 4 or less, you know that something hidden is being | 
communicated, but you can't learn anything specific about its con-_ 
tent. If you beat the DC by 5 or more, you intercept and under- | 
stand the message. If you fail by 4 or less, you don't detect any | 
hidden communication. If you fail by 5 or more, you infer some 
false information. = 

Action: Trying to gain information with Sense Motive gener- 
ally takes at least 1 minute, and you could spend a whole evening 
trying to get a sense of the people around you. 

Try Again: No, though you may make a Sense Motive check for 
each Bluff check made against you. 

Special: A ranger gains a bonus on Sense Motive checks when 
using this skill against a favored enemy (see page 47). 

If you have the Negotiator feat, you get a +2 bonus on Sense 
Motive checks, z 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Sense Motive, you get 
a +2 bonus on Diplomacy checks. 


SLEIGHT OF HAND (DEX: TRAINED ONLY; 
ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 


You can cut or lift a purse and hide it on your person, palm an un- 
attended object, hide a light weapon in your clothing, or perform 
some feat of legerdemain with an object no larger than a hat or a 
loaf of bread. 

Check: A DC 10 Sleight of Hand check lets you palm a coin- 
sized, unattended object. Performing a minor feat of legerdemain, 
such as making a coin disappear, also has a DC of 10 unless an 
observer is determined to note where the item went. cae | 

When you use this skill under close observation, your skill, 
check is opposed by the observer's Spot check. The observer's suc- | 
cess doesn't prevent you from performing the action, just from | 

You can hide a small object (including a light weapon, such as. al 
handaxe, or an easily concealed ranged weapon, such as a dart, | 


| sling, or hand crossbow) on your body. Your Sleight of Hand check | 
lis opposed by the Spot check of anyone observing you or the 
|Search check of anyone frisking you. In the latter case, the 


searcher gains a +4 bonus on the Search check, since it’s generally 


* 


6d 


3m 


easier to find such an object than to hide it. A dagger is easier to 
hide than most light weapons, and grants you.a +2 bonus on your 
Sleight of Hand check to conceal it. An extraordinarily small 
object, such as a coin, shuriken, or ring, grants you a +4 bonus on 
your Sleight of Hand check to conceal it, and heavy or baggy | 
clothing (such as a cloak) grants you a +2 bonus on the check. | 
. Drawing a hidden weapon is a standard action and doesn't provoke | 
Lan attack of opportunity. | 

If you try to take something from another creature, you must | 
¿make a DC 20 Sleight of Hand check to obtain it. The opponent | 
(makes a Spot check to detect the attempt, opposed by the same | 
{Sleight of Hand check result you achieved when you tried to grab 
‚the item. An opponent who succeeds on this check notices the 
attempt, regardless of whether you got the item. 

You can also use Sleight of Hand to entertain an audience as 
though you were using the Perform skill. In such a case, your 
_‘act” encompasses elements of legerdemain, juggling, and the 


like. + 
Sleight of Hand 
DC Task 
10 Palm a coin-sized object, make a coin disappear 
20 Lift a small object from a person 


Action: Any Sleight of Hand check normally is a standard 

action. However, you may perform a Sleight of Hand check as a 
| free action by taking a —20 penalty on the check. 
| Try Again: Yes, but after an initial failure, a second Sleight of 
|Hand attempt against the same target (or while you are being 
‘watched by the same observer who noticed your previous 
|attempt) increases the DC for the task by 10. 

Special: If you have the Deft Hands feat, you get a +2 bonus on 

Sleight of Hand checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Bluff, you get a +2 
bonus on Sleight of Hand checks. 

Untrained: An untrained Sleight of Hand check is simply a 
Dexterity check. Without actual training, you can’t succeed on any. 
Sleight of Hand check with a DC higher than 10, except for hiding | 
an object on your body. 


SPEAK LANGUAGE (NONE; TRAINED ONLY) 


Language Typical Speakers Alphabet 
Abyssal Demons, chaotic evil outsiders Infernal 
Aquan Water-based creatures Elven 
Auran Air-based creatures Draconic 
Celestial Good outsiders Celestial 
Common Humans, halflings, half-elves, half-orcs | Common 
„Draconic Kobolds, troglodytes, lizardfolk, Draconic 
i dragons 

| Druidic Druids (only) Druidic 

| Dwarven Dwarves Dwarven 
Elven Elves Elven 
Giant Ogres, giants Dwarven 
Gnome Gnomes Dwarven 
Goblin Goblins, hobgoblins, bugbears Dwarven 
Gnoll Gnolls Common 
Halfling Halflings Common 
Ignan Fire-based creatures Draconic 
Infernal Devils, lawful evil outsiders Infernal 
Orc Orcs Dwarven 
Sylvan Dryads, brownies, leprechauns Elven 
Terran Xorns and other earth-based Dwarven 

] creatures 

|Undercommon__ Drow, mind flayers Elven 


Common languages and their alphabets are summarized on the | 
table above. 


115 + spell level 


130 or higher 


Action: Not applicable. 

Try Again: Not applicable. There are no Speak Language 
checks to fail. | 
|The Speak Language skill doesn't work like other skills. Languages 
{work as follows. 

Le You start at 1st level knowing one or two languages (based on 
your race), plus an additional number of languages equal to 
your starting Intelligence bonus (see Chapter 2: Races). 


© You can purchase Speak Language just like any other skill, but, 


instead of buying a rank in it, you choose a new language that | 
you can speak. 

* You dont make Speak Language checks. You either know a 
language or you don't. 

e A literate character (anyone but a barbarian who has not spent| 
skill points to become literate) can read and write any language 
she speaks. Each language has an alphabet, though sometimes 
several spoken languages share a single alphabet. 


SPELLCRAFT (INT; TRAINED ONLY) 


Use this skill to identify spells as they are cast or spells already in. 
place. 

Spellcraft DC Task _ 

13 When using read magic, identify a glyph of warding. 
No action required. 

Identify a spell being cast. (You must see or hear 
the spell’s verbal or somatic components.) No 
action required. No retry. 

Learn a spell from a spellbook or scroll (wizard = 
only). No retry for that spell until you gain at least | 
1 rank in Spellcraft (even if you find another 
source to try to learn the spell from). Requires 

8 hours. 

Prepare a spell from a borrowed spellbook (wizard 
only). One try per day. No extra time required. 
When casting detect magic, determine the school 
of magic involved in the aura of a single item or 
creature you can see. (If the aura is not a spell 
effect, the DC is 15 + one-half caster level.) No 
action required. 

19 When using read magic, identify a symbol. No 
action required. 

Identify a spell that’s already in place and in effect. 
You must be able to see or detect the effects of the 
spell. No action required. No retry. 

Identify materials created or shaped by magic, 
such as noting that an iron wall is the result of a 
wall of iron spell. No action required. No retry. 
Decipher a written spell (such as a scroll) without 
using read magic. One try per day. Requires a full- 
round action. 

After rolling a saving throw against a spell targeted 
on you, determine what that spell was. No action 
required. No retry. 

25 Identify a potion. Requires 1 minute. No retry. 

20 Draw a diagram to allow dimensional anchor to be 
cast on a magic circle spell. Requires 10 minutes. 
No retry. The DM makes this check. 

Understand a strange or unique magical effect, 
such as the effects of a magic stream. Time 
required varies. No retry. 


+ 


+ 


15 + spell level 


15 + spell level 


15 + spell level 


20 + spell level 


20 + spell level 


20 + spell level 


25 + spell level 


+ 


4 


Check: You can identify spells and magic effects. The DCs for 


|Spellcraft checks relating to various tasks are summarized on the 


table above. 


Action: Varies, as noted above. 

Try Again: See above. 

Special: If you are a specialist wizard, you geta +2 bonus on 
Spellcraft checks when dealing witha spell or effect from your 
specialty school. You take a —5 penalty when dealing with a spell, 
or effect from a prohibited school (and some tasks, such as learn- | 


_ing a prohibited spell, are just impossible). i 


+ 


If you have the Magical Aptitude feat, you get a +2 bonus on, 


| Spellcraft checks. } 


Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (arcana), | 


_you get a +2 bonus on Spellcraft checks. 


_ Jf you have 5 or more ranks in Use Magic Device, you get a +2 


_bonus on Spellcraft checks to decipher spells on scrolls. 


If you have 5 or more ranks in Spellcraft, you get a +2 bonus on 
Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. 
Additionally, certain spells allow you to gain information about 


_magic, provided that you make a successful Spellcraft check as 
„detailed in the spell description. (For example, see the detect magic | 
ispell, page 219.) 4 


SPOT (wis) 


+ 


Use this skill to notice bandits waiting in ambush, to see a rogue 
lurking in the alley, to see through a disguise, to read lips, or to 
see the monstrous centipede in the pile of trash. 

Check: The Spot skill is used primarily to detect characters 
or creatures who are hiding. Typically, your Spot check is 


Lopposed by the Hide check of the creature trying not to be 
\seen. Sometimes a creature isn't intentionally hiding but is 


‘still difficult to see, so a successful Spot check is necessary to 
[notice it. 
A Spot check result higher than 20 generally lets you 


become aware of an invisible creature near you, though you 
‚can't actually see it. 


Spot is also used to detect someone in disguise (see the Disguise 
skill, page 72), and to read lips when you can't hear or understand 
what someone is saying. 

The Dungeon Master may call for Spot checks to determine the _ 


distance at which an encounter begins. A penalty applies on such; 


checks, depending on the distance between the two individuals or | 
groups, and an additional penalty may apply if the character 


making the Spot check is distracted (not concentrating on being | 
observant). 


Condition _ 2 a Penalty 
Per 10 feet of distance -1 
Spotter distracted z5 


Read Lips: To understand what someone is saying by reading 


(lips, you must be within 30 feet of the speaker, be able to see him 
Lor her speak, and understand the speaker's language. (This use of 
ithe skill is language-dependent.) The base DC is 15, but it 


increases for complex speech or an inarticulate speaker. You must 
maintain a line of sight to the lips being read. 

If your Spot check succeeds, you can understand the general 
content of a minute’s worth of speaking, but you usually still miss 
certain details. If the check fails by 4 or less, you can't read the 
speaker's lips. If the check fails by 5 or more, you draw some incor- 
rect conclusion about the speech. Your DM rolls your check 

secretly in this case, so that you don't know whether you suc- 


_ceeded or missed by 5. 


+ 


Action: Varies. Every time you have a chance to spot something 
in a reactive manner (for example, when someone tries to sneak 


_\past you while hidden, or you move into a new area), you can make 
la Spot check without using an action. Trying to spot something 


you failed to see previously is a move action. To read lips, you must 
concentrate for a full minute before making a Spot check, and you | 


can't perform any other action (other than moving at up to half, 

speed) during this minute. | 
Try Again: Yes. You can try to spot something that you failed to | 

see previously at no penalty. You can attempt to read lips once per; 


minute. 


| 
+ 


Special: A fascinated creature takes a —4 penalty on Spot checks 


| made as reactions. 


„against a favored enemy (see page 47). 


+ 


If you have the Alertness feat, you get a +2 bonus on Spot checks. 
A ranger gains a bonus on Spot checks when using this skill, 


An elf has a +2 racial bonus on Spot checks because elves have] 
keen senses. —_— 

A half-elf has a +1 racial bonus on Spot checks. Her eyesight is 
good because of her elven heritage, but not as keen as that of a, 
full elf. | 

The master of a hawk familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, 
page 52) gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in daylight or other 
ilighted areas. 

The master of an owl familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page, 


152) gains a +3 bonus on Spot checks in shadowy or other dark- 


SURVIVAL (wis) 


ened areas. 


Use this skill to follow tracks, hunt wild game, guide a party 
safely through frozen wastelands, identify signs that owlbears 
live nearby, predict the weather, or avoid quicksand and other. 
natural hazards. 

Check: You can keep yourself and others safe and fed in the! 


‘wild. The table below gives the DCs for various tasks that require | 


Survival checks. 
Survival does not allow you to follow difficult tracks unless, 
you are a ranger or have the Track feat (see the Restriction sec- | 


tion below). | 
Survival DC Task peu 
10 Get along in the wild. Move up to one-half your 


overland speed while hunting and foraging (no food 
or water supplies needed). You can provide food and 
water for one other person for every 2 points by which 
your check result exceeds 10. 

15 Gain a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saves against severe 
weather while moving up to one-half your overland 
speed, or gain a +4 bonus if you remain stationary. 
You may grant the same bonus to one other character 
for every 1 point by which your Survival check result 


exceeds 15. 

15 Keep from getting lost or avoid natural hazards, such 
as quicksand. 

15 Predict the weather up to 24 hours in advance. For 


every 5 points by which your Survival check result 
exceeds 15, you can predict the weather for one 
additional day in advance. 

Varies Follow tracks (see the Track feat). 

Action: Varies. A single Survival check may represent activity 
over the course of hours or a full day. A Survival check made to 
find tracks is at least a full-round action, and it may take even | 
longer at the DM's discretion. 

Try Again: Varies. For getting along in the wild or for gain: ing, | 
the Fortitude save bonus noted in the table above, you make a Sur- 4 


ivival check once every 24 hours. The result of that check applies | 


until the next check is made. To avoid getting lost or avoid natural | 
hazards, you make a Survival check whenever the situation calls | 


[for one. Retries to avoid getting lost in a specific situation or to | 
l avoid a specific natural hazard are not allowed. For finding tracks, 
‘you can retry a failed check after 1 hour (outdoors) or 10 minutes 


(indoors) of searching. 


83 


OAs 


Restriction: While anyone can use Survival to find tracks 
(regardless of the DC), or to follow tracks when the DC for the task 
is 10 or lower, only a ranger (or a character with the Track feat; see 
page 101) can use Survival to follow tracks when the task has a 
higher DC. 


automatically determine where true north lies in relation to) 
‘yourself. 
| Aranger gains a bonus on Survival checks when using this skill, 
to find or follow the tracks of a favored enemy (see page 47). } 
If you have the Self-Sufficient feat, you get a +2 bonus on Sur-. 
[vival checks. 
Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you get a +2 
bonus on Knowledge (nature) checks. 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (dungeoneering), 
you get a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while underground. 
__ Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (nature), you get a +2 


,bonus on Survival checks in aboveground natural environments | 


(aquatic, desert, forest, hill, marsh, mountains, and plains). ji 

Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (geography), you get | 
a +2 bonus on Survival checks made to keep from getting lost or to, 
avoid natural hazards. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Knowledge (the planes), you get 
a +2 bonus on Survival checks made while on other planes. 

If you have 5 or more ranks in Search, you get a +2 bonus on 


Survival checks to find or follow tracks. 


t 


SWIM (STR; ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 
l Using this skill, a land-based creature can swim, dive, navigate 
‘underwater obstacles, and so on. 
L Check: Make a Swim check once per round while. you are in 
ithe water. Success means you may swim at up to one-half your 
‚speed (as a full-round action) or at one-quarter your speed (as a 
|move action). If you fail by 4 or less, you make no progress 
through the water. If you fail by 5 or more, you go underwater. 
If you are underwater, either because you failed a Swim check or 

because you are swimming underwater intentionally, you must. 
hold your breath. You can hold your breath for a number of rounds . 
equal to twice your Constitution score, but only if you do nothing | 
other than take move actions or free actions. If you take a standard | 
action or a full-round action (such as making an attack), the remain- | 
der of the duration for which you can hold your breath is reduced 
by 1 round. (Effectively, a character in combat can hold his or her 
breath only half as long as normal.) After that period of time, you 
must make a DC 10 Constitution check every round to continue 
holding your breath. Each round, the DC for that check increases by 
1. If you fail the Constitution check, you begin to drown (see Suffo- 
„cation and Drowning in the Dungeon Master's Guide). 

| The DC for the Swim check depends on the water, as given on 


ithe table below. 


4 


Water Swim DC 
Calm water 10 
Rough water = 15 
Stormy water 20! 


1 You can’t take 10 on a Swim check in stormy water, even if you 
aren't otherwise being threatened or distracted. 


Each hour that you swim, you must make a DC 20 Swim check or 
‚take 1d6 points of nonlethal damage from fatigue. 
__ Action: A successful Swim check allows you to swim one- 
quarter of your speed as a move action or one-half your speed as 
f full-round action. 
T Special: Swim checks are subject to double the normal armor 
check penalty and encumbrance penalty (see pages 123 and 
162). For instance, full plate incurs a -12 penalty on Swim 
checks instead of —6. 


+ 


Special: If you have 5 or more ranks in Survival, you can). 


half your speed. 


If you have the Athletic feat, you get a +2 bonus on Swim. 
checks. | 

If you have the Endurance feat, you get a +4 bonus on Swim | 
checks made to avoid taking nonlethal damage from fatigue. __, 
| A creature with a swim speed can move through water at its 


lindicated speed without making Swim checks. It gains a +8 racial 


{bonus on any Swim check to perform a special action or avoid a 
hazard. The creature always can choose to take 10 on a Swim 
check, even if distracted or endangered when swimming. Such a, 

‚creature can use the run action while swimming, provided that it | 

[swims in a straight line. 


TUMBLE (DEX; TRAINED ONLY; 
ARMOR CHECK PENALTY) 


You can dive, roll, somersault, flip, and so on. 1, You can't use this | 
skill if your speed has been reduced by armor, excess equipment, 
Lor loot (see Table 9-2: Carrying Loads, page 162). 


I Check: You can land softly when you fall or tumble past oppo-, 


\nents. You can also tumble to entertain an audience (as though | 


using the Perform skill). The DCs for various tasks involving the 


Tumble skill are given on the table below. 


Tumble DC __ Task 


15 Treat a fall as if it were 10 feet shorter than it really 
is when determining damage. 
15 Tumble at one-half speed_as part of normal 


movement, provoking no attacks of opportunity | 
while doing so. Failure means you provoke attacks | 
of opportunity normally. Check separately for each | 
opponent you move past, in the order in which you 
pass them (player’s choice of order in case of a tie). | 
Each additional enemy after the first adds +2 to the 
Tumble DC. 4 
25 Tumble at one-half speed through an area occupied 
by an enemy (over, under, or around the opponent) 
as part of normal movement, provoking no attacks 
of opportunity while doing so. Failure means you 
stop before entering the enemy-occupied area and 
provoke an attack of opportunity from that enemy. 
Check separately for each opponent. Each additional 
enemy after the first adds +2 to the Tumble DC. 


Obstructed or otherwise treacherous surfaces, such as natural 
cavern floors or undergrowth, are tough to tumble through. The 
DC for any Tumble check made to tumble into such a square is 
modified as indicated below. 


Surface Is... DC Modifier 

Lightly obstructed (scree, light rubble, shallow bog’, +2 
undergrowth) 

Severely obstructed (natural cavern floor, dense rubble, +5 
dense undergrowth) 

Lightly slippery (wet floor) +2 

Severely slippery (ice sheet) +5 

Sloped or angled +2 


1 Tumbling is impossible in a deep bog. 


Accelerated Tumbling: You try to tumble past or through enemies , 
more quickly than normal. By accepting a —10 penalty on your | 
Tumble checks, you can move at your full speed instead of one-_ 

Action: Not applicable. Tumbling is part of movement, so a, 4 

Tumble check is part of a move action. { 

Try Again: Usually no. An audience, once it has judged a tum- 

[bler as an uninteresting performer, is not receptive to repeat per- 


\formances. You can try to reduce damage from a fall as an instant 


reaction only once per fall. 


F > EINT E eh OO a 3 E -a >g > A3 E-z 
a Ba F eS iaaii i A E Ga RS 
a Fie 
Special: If you have 5 or more ranks in Tumble, you gain a +3 Activate Blindly: Some magic items are activated by special 
dodge bonus to AC when fighting defensively instead of the usual words, thoughts, or actions. You can activate such an item as if you 
+2 dodge bonus to AC (see Fighting Defensively, page 140). were using the activation word, thought, or action, even when 
If you have 5 or more ranks in Tumble, you gain a +6 dodge youre not and even if you don't know it. You do have to perform 
bonus to AC when executing the total defense standard action some equivalent activity in order to make the check. That is, you 
instead of the usual +4 dodge bonus to AC (see Total Defense, must speak, wave the item around, or otherwise attempt to get 
page 142). it to activate. You get a special +2 bonus on your Use 


USE MAGIC DEVICE 
(CHA; TRAINED ONLY) 


If you have the Acrobatic feat, you get a +2 bonus 
on Tumble checks. 

Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in 
Tumble, you get a +2 bonus on Balance and 
Jump checks. 

Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Jump, 
you get a +2 bonus on Tumble 
checks. 


Magic Device check if you've activated the 
item in question at least once before. 
If you fail by 9 or less, you can’t 
activate the device. If you fail by 
10 or more, you suffer a mishap. 
A mishap means that magical 
energy gets released but 
it doesn’t do what you 
wanted it to do. The DM 
determines the result 
of a mishap, as with 
scroll mishaps. The 
default mishaps 
are that the item 
affects the wrong 
target or that un- 
controlled magi- 
cal energy is re- 
leased, dealing 
2d6 points of 
damage to you. 
This mishap is 
in_addition to 
MY" the chance for 
iy 
a mishap that 
you normally run 
when you cast a 
spell from a 
scroll that you 
could not oth- 
x erwise cast 
X yourself (see 
| the Dungeon 
Master’s 
' Guide). 


Use this skill to activate magic 
devices, including scrolls and 
wands, that you could not 
otherwise activate. 

Check: Youcanuse g 
this skill to read a 
spell or to activate a <€ 
magic item. Use 
Magic Device lets 
you use a magic item 
as if you had the spell 
ability or class features of 
another class, as if you 
were a different race, or 
as if you were of a differ- 
ent alignment. 

You make a Use Magic 
Device check each time 
you_activate a device 
such as a wand. If you are 
using the check to emu- 
late an alignment or some 
other quality in an on- 
going manner (to emu- 
late a neutral evil align- 
ment in order to keep Decipher a Written Spell: This 
yourself from being ġ k <= usage works just like deciphering 
damaged by a book of vile ~~" Èt E > a written spell with the Spellcraft skill, 
darkness you are carrying s except that the DC is 5 points higher. Deci- 
when you are not evil, for example), you need to phering a written spell requires 1 minute of 
make the relevant Use Magic Device check concentration. 
once per hour. Emulate an Ability Score: To cast a spell 

You must consciously choose which re- ack from a scroll, you need a high score in the 
quirement to emulate. That is, you must know appropriate ability (Intelligence for wizard 
what you are trying to emulate when you make a spells, Wisdom for divine spells, or Charisma for 
Use Magic Device check for that purpose. The DCs for sorcerer or bard spells). Your effective ability score 
various tasks involving Use Magic Device checks are Lidda finds that usinga___ (appropriate to the class you're emulating when you 


summarized on the table below. magic device can be risky. try to cast the spell from the scroll) is your Use Magic 
Device check result minus 15. If you already have a 
Task Use Magic Device DC high enough score in the appropriate ability, you don’t need to 
Activate blindly 25 make this check. 
Decipher a written spell 25 + spell level Emulate an Alignment: Some magic items have positive or nega- 
Use a scroll 20 + caster level tive effects based on the user's alignment. Use Magic Device lets 
Use a wand 20 you use these items as if you were of an alignment of your choice. 
Emulate a class feature 20 For example, a book of vile darkness damages nonevil characters who 
Emulate an ability score See text touch it. With a successful Use Magic Device check, Lidda could 
Emulate a race 25 emulate an evil alignment so that she could handle a book of vile 
Emulate an alignment 30 darkness safely. You can emulate only one alignment at a time. 


SE 
= «3 > ee = 
A wre a a 
tas ce SE > Sa 
> =e RE TO oink S 


N 
S 
S 

D 

x 
= 
= 
3 


Emulate a Class Feature: Sometimes you need to use a class fea- If you have the Magical Aptitude feat, you get a +2 bonus on. 


ture to activate a magic item. In this case, your effective level in Use Magic Device checks. 

the emulated class equals your Use Magic Device check result mi- Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Spellcraft, you get a z2] 
nus 20. For example, Lidda finds a magic chalice that turns regular bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. | 
water into holy water when a cleric or an experienced paladin. | Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Decipher Script, you get a +2 
channels positive energy into it as if turning undead. She attempts. __ bonus on Use Magic Device checks related to scrolls. 

to activate the item by emulating the cleric’s undead turning abil-} | Ifyou have 5 or more ranks in Use Magic Device, you get a +2 
ity. Her effective cleric level is her check result minus 20. Since a bonus to Spellcraft checks made to decipher spells on scrolls. 
[cleric can turn undead at 1st level, she needs a Use Magic Device } 

‚check result of 21 or higher to succeed. | USE ROPE (DEX) = 

| This skill does not let you actually use the class feature of. | With this skill, you can make firm knots, undo tricky knots, and | 
‘another class. It just lets you activate items as if you had that class bind prisoners with ropes. = 
feature. Check: Most tasks with a rope are relatively simple. TH The DCs 

If the class whose feature you are emulating has an alignment for various tasks utilizing this skill are summarized on the table, 

requirement, you must meet it, either honestly or by emulating an below. _ Sa | 
appropriate alignment with a separate Use Magic Device check 

(see above). = (Use Rope DC Task a 

į Emulate a Race: Some magic items work only for members of | 10 Tie a firm knot | 
certain races, or work better for members of those races. You ah | 10' Secure a grappling hook i 
Luse such an item as if you were a race of your choice. Forexample,, | 15 Tie a special knot, such as one that slips, slides 
Lidda, a halfling, could attempt to use a dwarven thrower (see page | slowly, or loosens with a tug 

226 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide) as if she were a dwarf. If she 15 Tie a rope around yourself one-handed _ = 
failed her Use Magic Device check, the hammer would work for 15 Splice two ropes together 

her as it normally would for a halfling, but if she succeeded, it Varies Bind a character 

would work for her as if she were a dwarf. You can emulate only 1 Add 2 to the DC for every 10 feet the hook is thrown; see below. 

one race at a time. = — 

Use a Scroll: If you are casting a spell from a scroll, you have to Secure a Grappling Hook: Securing a grappling hook requires al 

| decipher it first. Normally, to cast a spell from a scroll, you must ¿Use Rope check (DC 10, +2 for every 10 feet of distance the | 
|have the scroll's spell on your class spell list. Use Magic Device grappling hook is thrown, to a maximum DC of 20 at 50 feet). | 
‘allows you to use a scroll as if you had a particular spell on your Failure by 4 or less indicates that the hook fails to catch and | 
class spell list. The DC is equal to 20 + the caster level of the spell falls, allowing you to try again. Failure by 5 or more indicates | 
lyou are trying to cast from the scroll. For instance, to cast web (a that the grappling hook initially holds, but comes loose after | 
_2nd-level wizard spell) from a scroll, you would need a Use Magic 1d4 rounds of supporting weight. Your DM should make this | 
| Device check result of 23 or better, since the minimum caster check secretly, so that you don’t know whether the rope will 
level for web is 3rd level. See the Dungeon Master’s Guide for more hold your weight. 


information on scrolls. Bind a Character: When you bind another 
In addition, casting a spell from a scroll requires a minimum N : y D character with a rope, any Escape Artist 
score (10 + spell level) in the appropriate ability. ] o\ check that the bound character makes is 
If you don't have a sufficient score in that » \ opposed by your Use Rope check. You 
ability, you must emulate the ability _ get. a +10 bonus on this check because it 
score with a separate Use Magic “ is easier to bind someone than to 
Device check (see above). „escape from bonds. You don't even 
This use of the skill also applies to other * make your Use Rope check until some- 
spell completion magic items. The Dun- one tries to escape. 
geon Master's Guide has more informa- Action: Varies. Throwing a grappling 
tion on such items. Ps hook is a standard action that provokes an 
Use a Wand: Normally, to use a 


attack of opportunity. Tying a knot, tying 
_wand, you must have the wand’s spell on your class a 


a special knot, or tying a rope around 
{spell list. This use of the skill allows you to use a 


V yourself one-handed is a full-round action 
{wand as if you had a particular spell on your that provokes an attack of opportunity. Splic- 
{class spell list. 


ing two ropes together takes 5 minutes. Binding a char- 
This use of the skill also applies to other 


acter takes 1 minute. 
spell trigger magic items, such as staffs. The Special: A silk rope (page 127) gives you a +2 cir- 
Dungeon Masters Guide has more informa- £ 


cumstance bonus on Use Rope checks. If you cast 
n $ > 
tion on such items. 2an Z 


SS an animate rope spell on a rope, you get a +2 
Action: None. The Use Magic circumstance bonus on any Use Rope checks 
Device check is made as part of the 


A you make when using that rope. These | 
action (if any) required to activate 


bonuses stack. 
the magic item. (See Activate If you have the Deft Hands feat, you get| | 


Magic Item, page 142, and the Dungeon Master’s Guide for discus- a +2 bonus on Use Rope checks. | 
_sions of how magic items are normally activated.) | Synergy: If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a2] 
Try Again: Yes, but if you ever roll a natural 1 while attempting bonus on Climb checks made to climb a rope, a knotted rope, or a1 i 
ho activate an item and you fail, then you can't try to activate that rope-and-wall combination. 
litem again for 24 hours. \__If you have 5 or more ranks in Use Rope, you get a+2 bonus on} 
Special: You cannot take 10 with this skill. | Escape Artist checks when escaping from rope bonds. 
You can’t aid another on Use Magic Device checks. Only the, | If you have 5 or more ranks in Escape Artist, you get a +2 bonus 
user of the item may attempt such a check. | on checks made to bind someone. 


3G; 


Wek werke | 


feat is a special feature that either gives your character a 
new capability or improves one that he or she already has. 
For example, Lidda (a halfling rogue) chooses to start 
with the Improved Initiative feat at 1st level. That feat 
gives her a +4 bonus on her initiative checks. At 3rd level 

Sa ER Table 3-2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 

22), she gains a new feat and chooses Dodge. This feat ‘allows her 
to avoid the attacks of an opponent she selects by improving her 
Armor Class against that opponent. 

Unlike a skill, a feat has no ranks. A character either has a feat 
or does not. 


Unlike skills, feats are not bought with points. A player simply 
chooses them for his or her character. Each character gets-one 
feat upon creation. At 3rd level and every three levels thereafter 
} ! (6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level), he or she gains another feat 
$ Stan’ (see Table 3=2: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 
76022): Feats aregained according to character level, regardless of 
“thin individual class levels. 
Additionally, members of some classes get bonus feats as class 
BATA features. These feats may be chosen from special lists (see Fighter 
Vat Bonus Feats, below, and the individual class descriptions in Chap- 
5 ter 3 for details). 
P A human character also gets a bonus feat at 1st level, chosen by 
j x the player. This bonus feat can be any feat for which the character 
CR qualifies. 


ficit spray is pumped by the clock sarkadi 


Pyeng p hq sayy 


Some feats have prerequisites. Your character must have the 
indicated ability score, class feature, feat, skill, base attack 
bonus, or other quality designated in.order.to select or use 
that feat. A character can gain a feat at the same level at 
which he or she gains the prerequisite. For example, at 3rd 
level, Krusk, a half-orc barbarian, could spend 1 skill point 
on the Ride skill (gaining his first rank in Ride) and select 
the Mounted Combat feat at the same time. 

A character can't use a feat if he or she has lost a prerequi- 
site. For example, if your character's Strength drops below 13 
because of a ray of enfeeblement spell, he or she cant use the 
Power Attack feat until the prerequisite is once again met. 


Some feats are general, meaning that no special rules 
govern them as a group. Others are item creation feats, 
which allow spellcasters to create magic items of all 
sorts. A metamagic feat lets a spellcaster prepare and 
cast a spellwith greater effect, albeit as if the spell 
were. a higher spell level than it actually is. 


FIGHTER\BONUS-FEATS 


Fighters gain bonus feats selected from a subset of 
the feat list presented in Table 5=1 (page 90). Any 
feat designated as a fighter feat can be selected as a 
fighter’s bonus'feat:This designation does not restrict 
characters of other classes from selecting these feats, 
assuming that they meet any prerequisites. 


ITEM CREATION FEATS 


Spellcasters can use their personal power to create lasting magic 

items. Doing so, however, is draining. A spellcaster must put a 

little of himself or herself into every magic item he or she creates. 
An item creation feat lets a spellcaster create a magic item of a. 


certain type. Regardless of the type of items they involve, the vari-_ 


} 
XP Cost: Power and energy that the spellcaster would normally | 


[keep is expended when making a magic item. The XP cost equals | 
1/25 of the cost of the item in gold pieces (see the Dungeon Master’s | 
| Guide for item costs). A character cannot spend so much XP on an | 
Litem that he or she loses a level. However, upon gaining enough 
_XP to attain a new level, he or she can immediately expend XP on 
creating an item rather than keeping the XP to advance a level. 
Raw Materials Cost: Creating a magic item requires costly 
components, most of which are consumed in the process. The cost 
„of these materials equals one-half the cost of the item. 
For example, at 12th level Mialee the wizard gains the FMi 


_ous item creation feats all have certain features in common. 


Forge Ring, and she creates a ring of protection +3. The cost of the | 


iting is 18,000 gp, so it costs her 720 XP plus 9,000 gp to make. | 
Using an item creation feat also requires access to a laboratory | 
or magical workshop, special tools, and so on. A character gener- 
ally has access to what he or she needs unless unusual circum- 
stances apply (if the character is traveling far from home, for 
instance). 
Time: The time to create a magic item depends on the feat and 
the cost of the item. The minimum time is one day. 
| Item Cost: Brew Potion, Craft Wand, and Scribe Scroll create 
litems that directly reproduce spell effects, and the power of these 
[items depends on their caster level—that is, a spell from such an 
litem has the power it would have if cast by a spellcaster of that 
(level. A wand of fireball at caster level sth, for example, would 
„create fireballs that deal 8d6 points of damage and have a range of 
1720 feet. The price of these items (and thus the XP cost and the 
‘cost of the raw materials) also depends on the caster level. The 
caster level must be high enough that the spellcaster creating the 
item can cast the spell at that level. To find the final price in each. 
case, multiply the caster level by the spell level, then multiply the. 


result by a constant, as shown below: ee | 
Scrolls: Base price = spell level x caster level x 25 gp. _| 
Potions: Base price = spell level x caster level x 50 gp. 


Wands: Base price = spell level x caster level x 750 gp. 
A O-level spell is considered to have a spell level of 1/2 for the 
purpose of this calculation. 
Extra Costs: Any potion, scroll, or „or wand that stores a spell with 
a costly material component or an XP cost also carries a commen- 
surate cost. For potions and scrolls, the creator must expend the 
_material component or pay the XP cost when creating the item. 
|For a wand, the creator must expend fifty copies of the material 
“component or pay fifty times the XP cost. 
| Some magic items similarly incur extra costs in material com- 
ponents or XP, as noted in their descriptions. For example, a ring of 
three wishes costs 15,000 XP in addition to its normal price (as 
many XP as it costs to cast wish three times). 


METAMAGIC FEATS _ 


As a spellcaster’s knowledge of magic grows, she can learn to cast 
spells in ways slightly different from the ways in which the spells 
were originally designed or learned. For example, a spellcaster 
_can learn to cast a spell without having to say its verbal compo- 
\nent, to cast a spell for greater effect, or even to cast it with noth- 
ing but amoment’s thought. Preparing and casting a spell in such 
fa way is harder than normal but, thanks to metamagic feats, at 
least it is possible. 
For instance, at 3rd level, Mialee chooses to gain Silent Spell, 
the feat that allows her to cast a spell without its verbal compo- | 
nent. The cost of doing so, however, is that in preparing the spell, | 


she must use up a spell slot one spell level higher than the spell. 
actually is. Thus, if she prepares charm person as a silent spell, it 
takes up one of her 2nd-level spell slots. It is still only a 1st-level | 
spell, so the DC for the Will save against it does not go up. Mialee | 
cannot prepare a 2nd-level spell as a silent spell because she would 


_|have to prepare it as a 3rd-level spell, and she can't use 3rd-level 


\spell slots until she reaches Sth level. 

Wizards and Divine Spellcasters: Wizards and divine spell- 
casters (clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers) must prepare their_ 
‚spells in advance. During preparation, the character chooses 
which spells to prepare with metamagic feats (and thus which | 
ones take up higher-level spell slots than normal), — 

Sorcerers and Bards: Sorcerers and bards choose spells as 
they cast them. They can choose when they cast their spells, 
whether to apply their metamagic feats to improve them. As} 
with other spellcasters, the improved spell uses up a higher-level 


_spell slot. But because the sorcerer or bard has not prepared the 
‘spell in a metamagic form in advance, he must apply the meta-, 


\magic feat on the spot. Therefore, such a character must also take, 


_more time to cast a metamagic spell (one enhanced by a meta- 


magic feat) than he does to cast a regular spell. If the spell’s 
normal casting time is 1 action, casting a metamagic version is a | 
full-round action for a sorcerer or bard. (This isn’t the same as a 1- | 
round casting time, as described under Cast a Spell, page 143.) 
For a spell with a longer casting time, it takes an extra full-round 
action to cast the spell. — 

Spontaneous Casting and Metamagic Feats: A cleric spon- | 

taneously casting a cure or inflict spell can cast a metamagic ver- | 
sion of it instead. For instance, an 11th-level cleric can swap out] 
a prepared 6th-level spell to cast an empowered cure critical | 
wounds spell. Extra time is also required in this case. Casting a 1-} 
action metamagic spell spontaneously is a full-round action, and | 
a spell with a longer casting time takes an extra full-round action | 
to cast. 

Effects of Metamagic Feats on a Spell: In all ways, a meta- 
magic spell operates at its original spell level, even though it is pre- 
pared and cast as a higher-level spell. Saving throw modifications 
are not changed unless stated otherwise in the feat description. 
The modifications made by these feats only apply to spells cast 
directly by the feat user. A spellcaster can’t use a metamagic feat to 
alter a spell being cast from a wand, scroll, or other device. 

Metamagic feats that eliminate components of a spell (such as 
Silent Spell and Still Spell) don't eliminate the attack of opportu- 
nity provoked by casting a spell while threatened. However, cast- 
ing a spell modified by Quicken Spell does not provoke an attack 
of opportunity. 

Metamagic feats cannot be used with all spells. See the specific 
feat descriptions for the spells that a particular feat can't modify. 

Multiple Metamagic Feats on a Spell: A spellcaster can apply 
multiple metamagic feats to a single spell. Changes to its level are 
cumulative. A silent, stilled version of charm person, for example, 
would be prepared and cast as a 3rd-level spell (a ist-level spell, 
increased by one spell level for each of the metamagic feats). You 
can't apply the same metamagic feat more than once to a single 
spell (for instance, you can't cast a twice-empowered magic missile 
to get +100% damage). 

Magic Items and Metamagic Spells: With the right item cre-_ 
ation feat, you can store a metamagic version of a spell in a scroll, , 
potion, or wand. Level limits for potions and wands apply to the | 
spell’s higher spell level (after the application of the metamagic | 

feat). A character doesn't need the metamagic feat to activate an| 
item storing a metamagic version of a spell. — 

Counterspelling Metamagic Spells: Whether or not a all 

has been enhanced by a metamagic feat does not affect its vulner- 
lability to counterspelling or its ability to counterspell another 
| spell (see Counterspells, page 170). 


Here is the format for feat descriptions. — 


FEAT NAME [TYPE OF FEAT] i | 


Description of what the feat does or represents in plain language... 
Prerequisite: A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a} 
(minimum base attack bonus, a minimum number of ranks in one | 
Lor more skills, or a class level that a character must have in order to} 
„acquire this feat. This entry is absent if a feat has no prerequisite. A | 
feat may have more than one prerequisite. | 
_ Benefit: What the feat enables the character (“you” in the feat 
_description) to do. If a character has the same feat more than once, 
its benefits do not stack unless indicated otherwise in the descrip- 
tion. In general, having a feat twice is the same as having it once. 
Normal: What a character who does not have this feat is lim- 
„ited to or restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no 
„particular drawback, this entry is absent. 
| Special: Additional facts about the feat that may be helpfull. 
when you decide whether to acquire the feat. | 


ACROBATIC [GENERAL] 


You have excellent body awareness and coordination. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Jump checks and Tumble 


checks. 
AGILE [GENERAL] 


| You are particularly flexible and poised. = 
| Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Balance checks and Escape 
| Artist checks. 


ALERTNESS [GENERAL] 


You have finely tuned senses. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Listen checks and Spot checks. 
Special: The master of a familiar (see the Familiars sidebar, page 

52) gains the benefit of the Alertness feat whenever the familiar is 

within arm's reach. 


ANIMAL AFFINITY [GENERAL] 


You are good with animals. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal checks and} 
Ride checks. 


—-—— + 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (HEAVY) [GENERAL] 
You are proficient with heavy armor (see Table 7—6: Armor and 
Shields, page 123). 

Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency 
(medium). 

Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 

Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 

Special: Fighters, paladins, and clerics automatically have 
Armor Proficiency (heavy) as a bonus feat. They need not select it. 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (LIGHT) [GENERAL] 


You are proficient with light armor (see Table 7—6: Armor and 
Shields, page 123). 
proficient, the armor check penalty for that armor ae only on 
Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Sleight 
_of Hand, and Tumble checks. Double the normal penalty applies 
Lon Swim checks. 
Normal: A character who is wearing armor with which she is 
[not proficient applies its armor check penalty on attack rolls and 
on all Strength-based or Dexterity-based ability and skill checks. 
Special: All characters except wizards, sorcerers, and monks 
automatically have Armor Proficiency (light) as a bonus feat. They | 


need not select it. 


+ 


ARMOR PROFICIENCY (MEDIUM) 


ATHLETIC [GENERAL] ey 


[GENERAL] _ | 
You are proficient with medium armor (see Table 7—6: Armor and | 
Shields, page 123). — xi 


| Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light). 
|} Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light). 
Special: Fighters, barbarians, paladins, clerics, and druids auto- 
matically have Armor Proficiency (medium) as a bonus feat. They, 
„need not select it. o | 


} 
You have a knack for athletic endeavors. 


Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Climb checks and Swim, 
checks. z5 


AUGMENT SUMMONING [GENERAL] 


[Your summoned creatures are more powerful than normal. 

| Prerequisite: Spell Focus (conjuration). 

| Benefit: Each creature you conjure with any summon spell | 
gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution for , 
the duration of the spell that summoned it. 


BLIND-FIGHT [GENERAL] a 


You know how to fight in melee without being able to see your foes. 

Benefit: In melee, every time you miss because of conceal- 
ment, you can reroll your miss chance percentile roll one time to 

¡see if you actually hit (see Concealment, page 152), — —4 

An invisible attacker gets no advantages related to hitting you | 
in melee. That is, you don't lose your Dexterity bonus to Anor 
Class, and the attacker doesn't get the usual +2 bonus for being 
invisible (see Table 8-5: Attack Roll Modifiers and Table 8—6: | 
Armor Class Modifiers, page 151). The invisible attacker's bonuses | 
do still apply for ranged attacks, however. 

You take only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to 
see. Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces your speed to 
three-quarters normal, instead of one-half (see Table 9-4: Ham- 
pered Movement, page 163). 

Normal: Regular attack roll modifiers for invisible attackers 
trying to hit you (see Table 8—5: Attack Roll Modifiers, page 151) 
apply, and you lose your Dexterity bonus to AC. The speed reduc- 
tion for darkness and poor visibility (see Table 9-4: Hampered 
Movement, page 163) also applies. — 

Special: The Blind-Fight feat is of no use against a character 
who is the subject of a blink spell (see page 206). 

A fighter may select Blind-Fight as one of his fighter bonus 
feats (see page 38). 


BREW POTION [ITEM CREATION] 


You can create potions, which carry spells within themselves. See 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide for rules on potions. 

Prerequisite: Caster level 3rd. 

Benefit: You can create a potion of any 3rd-level or lower spell 
that you know and that targets one or more creatures. Brewing a 
potion takes one day. When you create a potion, you set the caster 
level, which must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and no 
higher than your own level. The base price of a potion is its spell | 
level x its caster level x 50 gp. To brew a potion, you must spend | 
1/25 of this base price in XP and use up raw materials costing one- | 


half this base price._ 
| When you create a potion, you make any choices csi yu 
er drinks the + 
potion is the target of the spell. 
Any potion that stores a spell with a costly material component i 
Lor an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the 
{costs derived from the base price, you must expend the material 


component or pay the XP when creating the potion. 


69 


ABLE 5—1: FEATS 
General Feats 

Acrobatic 

Agile 

Alertness 

Animal Affinity 

Armor Proficiency (light) 


Armor Proficiency (medium) 
Armor Proficiency (heavy) 


Athletic 

Augment Summoning 

Blind-Fight! 

Combat Casting 

Combat Expertise! 
Improved Disarm! 
Improved Feint! 
Improved Trip! 
Whirlwind Attack! 


Combat Reflexes! 
Deceitful 
Deft Hands 
Diligent 
Dodge! 
Mobility’ 
Spring Attack’ 
Endurance 
Diehard 
Eschew Materials 
Exotic Weapon Proficiency? 
Extra Turning? 
Great Fortitude 
Improved Counterspell 
Improved Critical’? 
Improved Initiative’ 
Improved Turning 
Improved Unarmed Strike" 
Improved Grapple! 
Deflect Arrows? 
Snatch Arrows! 


Stunning Fist" 


Investigator 
Iron Will 
Leadership 
Lightning Reflexes 
Magical Aptitude 
Martial Weapon Proficiency” 
Mounted Combat! 
Mounted Archery! 
Ride-By Attack! 
Spirited Charge! 
Trample! 
Natural Spell 
Negotiator 
Nimble Fingers 
Persuasive 
Point Blank Shot! 
Far Shot! 
Precise Shot! 
Improved Precise Shot! 


Rapid Shot! 
Manyshot! 


Shot on the Run! 


Prerequisites 


Armor Proficiency (light) 
Armor Proficiency (light and medium) 
Spell Focus (conjuration) 


Int 13 

Int 13, Combat Expertise 

Int 13, Combat Expertise 

Int 13, Combat Expertise 

Dex 13, Int 13, Combat Expertise, Dodge, 
Mobility, Spring Attack, base attack bonus +4 


Dex 13 
Dex 13, Dodge 
Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4 


Endurance 
Base attack bonus +1 
Ability to turn or rebuke creatures 


Proficiency with weapon, base attack bonus +8 


Ability to turn or rebuke creatures 

Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike 

Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike 

Dex 15, Deflect Arrows, 

Improved Unarmed Strike 

Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike, 
base attack bonus +8 


Character level 6th 


Ride 1 rank 

Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat 

Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat 

Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack 
Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat 

Wis 13, Ability to use wild shape 


Point Blank Shot 

Point Blank Shot 

Dex 19, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
base attack bonus +11 

Dex 13, Point Blank Shot 

Dex 17, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, 
base attack bonus +6 

Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, 
base attack bonus +4 


Benefit 

+2 bonus on Jump and Tumble checks 

+2 bonus on Balance and Escape Artist checks 

+2 bonus on Listen and Spot checks 

+2 bonus on Handle Animal and Ride checks 

No armor check penalty on attack rolls 

No armor check penalty on attack rolls 

No armor check penalty on attack rolls 

+2 bonus on Climb and Swim checks 

Summoned creatures gain +4 Str, +4 Con 

Reroll miss chance for concealment 

+4 bonus on Concentration checks for defensive casting 
Trade attack bonus for AC (max 5 points) 

+4 bonus on disarm attempts; no attack of opportunity 
Feint in combat as move action 

+4 bonus on trip attempts; no attack of opportunity 
One melee attack against each opponent within reach 


Additional attacks of opportunity 

+2 bonus on Disguise and Forgery checks 

+2 bonus on Sleight of Hand and Use Rope checks 
+2 bonus on Appraise and Decipher Script checks 
+1 dodge bonus to AC against selected target 


+4 dodge bonus to AC against some attacks of opportunity 


Move before and after melee attack 

+4 bonus on checks or saves to resist nonlethal damage 
Remain conscious at —1 to —9 hp 

Cast spells without material components 

No penalty on attacks with specific exotic weapon 
Can turn or rebuke 4 more times per day 

+2 bonus on Fortitude saves 

Counterspell with spell of same school 

Double threat range of weapon 

+4 bonus on initiative checks 

+1 level for turning checks 

Considered armed even when unarmed 

+4 bonus on grapple checks; no attack of opportunity 
Deflect one ranged attack per round 

Catch a deflected ranged attack 


Stun opponent with unarmed strike 


+2 bonus on Gather Information and Search checks 
+2 bonus on Will saves 

Attract cohort and followers 

+2 bonus on Reflex saves 

+2 bonus on Spellcraft and Use Magic Device checks 
No penalty on attacks with specific martial weapon 
Negate hits on mount with Ride check 

Half penalty for ranged attacks while mounted 
Move before and after a mounted charge 

Double damage with mounted charge 

Target cannot avoid mounted overrun 

Cast spells while in wild shape 

+2 bonus on Diplomacy and Sense Motive checks 
+2 bonus on Disable Device and Open Lock checks 
+2 bonus on Bluff checks and Intimidate checks 

+1 bonus on ranged attack and damage within 30 ft. 
Increase range increment by 50% or 100% 

No —4 penalty for shooting into melee 


Ignore less than total cover/concealment on ranged attacks 


One extra ranged attack each round 
Shoot two or more arrows simultaneously 


Move before and after ranged attack 


Power Attack! 
Cleave! 
Great Cleave! 


Improved Bull Rush! 
Improved Overrun! 
Improved Sunder! 

Quick Draw! 

Rapid Reload’ 

Run 


Self-Sufficient 
Shield Proficiency 
Improved Shield Bash! 
Tower Shield Proficiency 
Simple Weapon Proficiency 
Skill Focus? 
Spell Focus? 
Greater Spell Focus? 
Spell Mastery” 
Spell Penetration 
Greater Spell Penetration 
Stealthy 
Toughness? 
Track 
Two-Weapon Fighting! 
Two-Weapon Defense! 


Improved Two-Weapon Fighting! 


Greater Two-Weapon Fighting 


Weapon Finesse! 


Weapon Focus? 
Weapon Specialization’? 


Greater Weapon Focus!” 


Greater Weapon 
Specialization’? 


Item Creation Feats 

Brew Potion 

Craft Magic Arms and Armor 
Craft Rod 

Craft Staff 

Craft Wand 

Craft Wondrous Item 

Forge Ring 

Scribe Scroll 


Metamagic Feats 
Empower Spell 
Enlarge Spell 
Extend Spell 
Heighten Spell 
Maximize Spell 
Quicken Spell 
Silent Spell 

Still Spell 

Widen Spell 


Str 13 

Str 13, Power Attack 

Str 13, Cleave, Power Attack, 

base attack bonus +4 

Str 13, Power Attack 

Str 13, Power Attack 

Str 13, Power Attack 

Base attack bonus +1 

Weapon Proficiency with crossbow 


Shield Proficiency 
Shield Proficiency 


Wizard level 1st 


Spell Penetration 


Dex 15 

Dex 15, Two-Weapon Fighting 

Dex 17, Two-Weapon Fighting, 

base attack bonus +6 

Dex 19, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, 
Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +11 
Base attack bonus +1 


Proficiency with weapon, base attack bonus +1 
Proficiency with weapon, Weapon Focus 

with weapon, fighter level 4th 

Proficiency with weapon, Weapon Focus 

with weapon, fighter level 8th 

Proficiency with weapon, Greater Weapon 


Trade attack bonus for damage (up to base attack bonus) 
Extra melee attack after dropping target 
No limit to cleave attacks each round 


+4 bonus on bull rush attempts; no attack of opportunity 
+4 bonuson overrun attempts; no attack of opportunity 
+4 bonus on sunder attempts; no attack of opportunity 
Draw weapon as free action 

Reload crossbow more quickly 

Run at 5 times normal speed, +4 bonus on Jump checks 
made after a running start 

+2 bonus on Heal and Survival checks 

No armor check penalty on attack rolls 

Retain shield bonus to AC when shield bashing 

No armor check penalty on attack rolls 

No —4 penalty on attack rolls with simple weapons 

+3 bonus on checks with selected skill 

+1 bonus on save DCs against specific school of magic 
+1 bonus on save DCs against specific school of magic 
Can prepare some spells without spellbook 

+2 bonus on caster level checks to defeat spell resistance 
+2 bonus on caster level checks to defeat spell resistance 
+2 bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks 

+3 hit points 

Use Survival skill to track 

Reduce two-weapon fighting penalties 

Off-hand weapon grants +1 shield bonus to AC 

Gain second off-hand attack 


Gain third off-hand attack 

Use Dex modifier instead of Str modifier on attack rolls 
with light melee weapons 

+1 bonus on attack rolls with selected weapon 

+2 bonus on damage rolls with selected weapon 


+1 bonus on attack rolls with selected weapon 


+2 bonus on damage rolls with selected weapon 


Focus with weapon, Weapon Focus with weapon, 
Weapon Specialization with weapon, fighter level 12th 


Prerequisites 
Caster level 3rd 
Caster level 5th 
Caster level 9th 
Caster level 12th 
Caster level 5th 
Caster level 3rd 
Caster level 12th 
Caster level 1st 


Prerequisites 


1A fighter may select this feat as one of his fighter bonus feats. 
2 You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new weapon, skill, school of magic, or 


selection of spells. 


3 You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack. 


Benefit 

Create magic potions 

Create magic weapons, armor, and shields 
Create magic rods 

Create magic staffs 

Create magic wands 

Create magic wondrous items 

Create magic rings 

Create magic scrolls 


Benefit 

Increase spell’s variable, numeric effects by 50% 
Double spell’s range 

Double spell’s duration 

Cast spells as higher level 

Maximize spell’s variable, numeric effects 

Cast spells as free action 

Cast spells without verbal components 

Cast spells without somatic components 
Double spell’s area 


CLEAVE [GENERAL] 


You can follow through with powerful blows. 

Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 

Benefit: If you deal a creature enough damage to make it drop 
(typically by dropping it to below 0 hit points or killing it), you get 
an immediate, extra melee attack against another creature within 
‚reach. You cannot take a 5-foot step before making this extra | 
attack. The extra attack is with the same weapon and at the same 

| bonus as the attack that dropped the previous creature. You can 
„use this ability once per round. 


Special: A fighter may select Cleave as one of his fighter bonus | 


| feats (see page 38). 


COMBAT CASTING [GENERAL] 


You are adept at casting spells in combat. 

Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on Concentration checks made to cast 
a spell or use a spell-like ability while on the defensive (see Casting 
on the Defensive, page 140) or while you are grappling or pinned. | 


COMBAT EXPERTISE [GENERAL] 


You are trained at using your combat skill for defense as well as | 


offense. 
Prerequisite: Int 13. 
Benefit: When you use the attack action or the full attack 
action in melee, you can take a penalty of as much as —5 on your 
attack roll and add the same number (+5 or less) as a dodge bonus 
(to your Armor Class. This number may not exceed your base 
attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Armor Class last 
| ‘until your next action. 
Š Normal: A character without the Combat Expertise feat can 
fight defensively while using the attack or full attack action to 
‚take a —4 penalty on attack rolls and gain a +2 dodge bonus to 
_Armor Class. 
Special: A fighter may select Combat Expertise ; as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


COMBAT REFLEXES [GENERAL] 


You can respond quickly and repeatedly to opponents who let. 
their defenses down. 


- = i 
Benefit: When foes leave themselves open, you may make a | 
number of additional attacks of opportunity equal to your Dexter- | 


ity bonus. For example, a fighter with a Dexterity of 15 can make a 
total of three attacks of opportunity in 1 round—the one attack of 
opportunity any character is entitled to, plus two more because of 
his +2 Dexterity bonus. If four goblins move out of the character's 
threatened squares, he can make one attack of opportunity each 
against three of the four. You can still make only one attack of 
„opportunity per opportunity. 

| With this feat, you may also make attacks of opportunity while 
| flat-footed. 

Normal: A character without this feat can make only one 
attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of oppor- 
tunity while flat-footed. 

Special: The Combat Reflexes feat does not allow a rogue to use 
her opportunist ability (see page 51) more than once per round. 

A fighter may select Combat Reflexes as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 

A monk may select Combat Reflexes as a bonus feat at 2nd level. 


CRAFT MAGIC ARMS AND ARMOR 
[ÍTEM CREATION] ` 

pou can create magic weapons, armor, and shields. 

| Prerequisite: Caster level 5th. 


| Benefit: You can create any magic weapon, armor, or shield | 


whose prerequisites you meet (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for 


prerequisites and other information on these items). Enhancing a | 
weapon, suit of armor, or shield takes one day for each 1,000 gp in | 


the price of its magical features. To enhance a weapon, suit of , 
armor, or shield, you must spend 1/25 of its features’ total price in | 
XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this total price. | 
The weapon, armor, or shield to be enhanced must be a mas- | 
terwork item that you provide. Its cost is not included in the 
_ above cost. 
| You can also mend a broken magic weapon, suit of armor, or 
shield if it is one that you could make. Doing so costs half the XP, 
half the raw materials, and half the time it would take to craft that | 
„item in the first place. 


CRAFT ROD [ITEM CREATION] ae 8 


You can create magic rods, which have varied magical effects. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 9th. | 
Benefit: You can create any rod whose prerequisites you meet | 

(see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for prerequisites and other infor- 

_mation on rods). Crafting a rod takes one day for each 1,000 gp in 
lits base price. To craft a rod, you must spend 1/25 of its base price _ 
lin XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base, 
(price. 
Some rods incur extra costs in material components or XP, as , 
noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to those | 
derived from the rod’s base price. 


CRAFT STAFF [ITEM CREATION] _ 


You can create magic staffs, each of which has mul- 0-2 
iple magical effects. 

Pr isite: Caster level 12th. 

Benefit: 
staff whose prerequisite 
meet (see the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for prerequisites and 
other information on 
staffs). Crafting a staff 
takes one day for each 1,000 
gp in its base price. To craft a 
staff, you must spend 1/25 of its 
base price in XP and use 
up raw materials costing pul 
one-half of its base price. 
A newly created staff has 50 
charges. 

Some staffs incur extra 
costs in material compo- 
nents or XP, as noted in their 
descriptions. These costs are in addition to those derived from 
the staff's base price. 


CRAFT WAND [ITEM CREATION] 


You can create wands, which hold spells (see the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for rules on wands). 

Prerequisite: Caster level 5th. 

Benefit: You can create a wand of any 4th-level or lower spell 
that you know. Crafting a wand takes one day for each 1,000 gp in 
its base price. The base price of a wand is its caster level x the spell 
level x 750 gp. To craft a wand, you must spend 1/25 of this base 
price in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of this base | 
price. A newly created wand has 50 charges. 

Any wand that stores a spell with a costly material component | 
or an XP cost also carries a commensurate cost. In addition to the | 

_cost derived from the base price, you must expend fifty copies of | 


the material component or pay fifty times the XP cost. 


CRAFT WONDROUS ITEM [ITEM CREATION] 
| You can create a wide variety of magic items, such as a crystal ball or 
la flying carpet. _ 
Prerequisite: Caster level 3rd. 


+ 


Lidda dodges 
the ray of a spell cast 
by an evil cleric. 


| 


Benefit: You can create any wondrous item whose prerequi- 
sites you meet (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for prerequisites and 
other information on wondrous items). Enchanting a wondrous 
item takes one day for each 1,000 gp in its price. To enchant a won- 


drous item, you must spend 1/25 of the item's price in XP and use | 


up raw materials costing half of this price. 
You can also mend a broken wondrous item if it is one that you, 
| could make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and | 
half the time it would take to craft that item in the first place. | 
Some wondrous items incur extra costs in material components | 
_or XP, as noted in their descriptions. These costs are in addition to | 
| those derived from the item's base price. You must pay such a cost 
to create an item or to mend a broken one. 


DECEITFUL [GENERAL] 


You have a knack for disguising the truth. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disguise checks and Forgery 


‘checks. 
DEFLECT ARROWS [GENERAL] | 


You can deflect incoming arrows, as well as crossbow bolts, spears, | 
and other projectile or thrown weapons. 

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike. 

Benefit: You must have at least one hand free (holding noth- 
ing) to use this feat. Once per round when you would normally be 
hit with a ranged weapon, you may deflect it so that you take no 

_damage from it. You must be aware of the attack and not flat- 
| footed. Attempting to deflect a ranged weapon doesn't count as an 
laction. Unusually massive ranged weapons, such as boulders 

d giants, and ranged attacks generated by spell effects, 

Melf’s acid arrow, can't be deflected. 

A monk may select Deflect Arrows as a bonus feat at 
she does not meet the prerequisites. 
elect Deflect Arrows as one of his fighter bonus 


+ 


You have exceptional manual dé 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus o 
Use Rope checks. 


DIEHARD [GENERAL] 


You can remain conscious after attacks that 

Prerequisite: Endurance. 

Benefit: When reduced to between —1 and —9 hit] 
automatically become stable. You don't have to roll d% to see 
lose 1 hit point each round. 

When reduced to negative hit points, you may choose to act as 
lif you were disabled, rather than dying. You must make this deci- 

_sion as soon as you are reduced to negative hit points (even if it 
_isn’t your turn). If you do not choose to act as if you were disabled, 
you immediately fall unconscious. 

When using this feat, you can take either a single move or stan- 
dard action each turn, but not both, and you cannot take a full- 
round action. You can take a move action without further injur- 
ing yourself, but if you perform any standard action (or any other 
action the DM deems as strenuous, including some free actions, 
such as casting a quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage 
after completing the act. If you reach —10 hit points, you immedi- 

„ately die. 
_ Normal: A character without this feat who is reduced to 
between —1 and —9 hit points is unconscious and dying, as 
[described in Chapter 8: Combat. 


DILIGENT [GENERAL] 


Your meticulousness allows you to analyze minute details that) 
others miss. 


+ 


DODGE [GENERAL] = 


{You are adept at dodging blows. 


[Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge | 


EMPOWER SPELL [METAMAGIC] 


random variables. An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two 


ENDURANCE [GENERAL] 


| (see page 48). He 
| need not select it. 


Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Appraise checks and Deci- | 
pher Script checks. | 


Prerequisite: Dex 13. 

Benefit: During your action, you designate an opponent and 
receive a +1 dodge bonus to Armor Class against attacks from that 
opponent. You can select a new opponent on any action. 

A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Armor. 


bonuses (such as this one and a dwarf’s racial bonus on dodge 
attempts against giants) stack with each other, unlike most other 
types of bonuses. 

Special: A fighter may select Dodge as one of his fighter bonus | 


feats (see page 38). 


| You can cast spells to greater effect. 

Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell | 
are increased by one-half. An empowered spell deals half again as , 
much damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, | 
affects half again as many targets, and so forth, as appropriate. For | 
example, an empowered magic missile deals 1-1/2 times its normal 
damage (roll 1d4+1 and multiply the result by 1-1/2 for each mis- 
sile). Saving throws and opposed rolls (such as the one you make 
when you cast dispel magic) are not affected, nor are spells without | 


+++ 


levels higher than the spell’s actual level. 


You are capable of amazing feats of stamina. 

Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on the following checks =a 
saves: Swim checks made to resist nonlethal damage (see page 84), | 
Constitution checks made to continue running (see page 144), 
Constitution checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from a 
forced march (see page 164), Constitution checks made to hold 
your breath (see page 84), Constitution checks made to avoid non- 
lethal damage from starvation or thirst (see page 304 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide), Fortitude saves made to avoid nonlethal damage 
from hot or cold environments (see 
pages 302 and 303 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide), and Fortitude saves 
made to resist damage 
from suffocation (see 


431504 £ hq snyyy 


page 304 of the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide). Also, you may 
sleep in light or medium / 
armor without becoming 
fatigued. 

Normal: A character 
without this feat who sleeps 
in medium or heavier 
armor is automatically 4 
fatigued the next day. 

Special: A ranger 
automatically gains 
Endurance as a bonus 
‘feat at 3rd level 


You can cast spells farther than normal, 2 

Benefit: You can alter a spell with a range of close, medium, or 
long to increase its range by 100%. An enlarged spell with a range 
of close now has a range of 50 ft. + 5 ft./level, while medium-range | 
spells have a range of 200 ft. + 20 ft./level and long-range spells _ 
‘have a range of 800 ft. + 80 ft./level. An enlarged spell uses up a} 
| spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level. 
[ Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance, as well as spells | 
¿whose ranges are not close, medium, or long, do not have. 
increased ranges. 


ESCHEW MATERIALS [GENERAL] 


You can cast spells without relying on material components. 
Benefit: You can cast any spell that has a material component 
costing 1 gp or less without needing that component. (The casting 
¿of the spell still provokes attacks of opportunity as normal.) If the 


spell requires a material component that costs more than 1 gp, you i 


must have the material component at hand to cast the spell, just as. 
L normal. 4 


EXOTIC WEAPON PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] | 


Choose a type of exotic weapon, such as dire flail or shuriken (see 

Table 7-5: Weapons, page 116, for a list of exotic weapons). You 

understand how to use that type of exotic weapon in combat. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1 (plus Str 13 for bastard 

sword or dwarven waraxe). 

i Benefit: You make attack rolls with the weapon normally. 

Normal: A character who uses a weapon with which he or she 


iF 
li TESEN 
| Special: You can gain Exotic Weapon Proficiency multiple 


times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of exotic 
weapon. Proficiency with the bastard sword or the dwarven 
|waraxe has an additional prerequisite of Str 13. 
A fighter may select Exotic Weapon Proficiency as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


a 2 


EXTEND SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells that last longer than normal. 

Benefit: An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. A spell 
with a duration of concentration, instantaneous, or permanent is 
¡not affected by this feat. An extended spell uses up a spell slot one 
level higher than the spell’s actual level. 


EXTRA TURNING [GENERAL] 
You can turn or rebuke creatures more often than normal. 
Prerequisite: Ability to turn or rebuke creatures. 
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, you can use your abil- i 


—t- 


ity to turn or rebuke creatures four more times per day than. 
normal. 
Ifyou have the ability to turn or rebuke more than one kind ofl 
creature (such as a good-aligned cleric with access to the Fire. 
domain, who can turn undead and water creatures and can also 
_ rebuke fire creatures), each of your turning or rebuking abilities 
i gains four additional uses per day. 
Normal: Without this feat, a character can typically turn or 
rebuke undead (or other creatures) a number of times per day, 
equal to 3 + his or her Charisma modifier. = 
Special: You can gain Extra Turning multiple times. Its effects | 
stack. Each time you take the feat, you can use each of your turn- 
ing or rebuking abilities four additional times per day. 


FAR SHOT [GENERAL] SS 


You can get greater distance out of a ranged weapon. 
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. 
| Benefit: When you use a projectile weapon, such as a bow, its. 
\range increment increases by one-half (multiply by 1-1/2). When, 
_you use a thrown weapon, its range increment is doubled. 
Special: A fighter may select Far Shot as one of his fighter , 
bonus feats (see page 38). r = 


FORGE RING [ITEM CREATION] — — 


You can create magic rings, which have varied magical effects. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 12th. z — 
Benefit: You can create any ring whose prerequisites you meet | 

(see the Dungeon Master’s Guide for prerequisites and other infor-| 
mation on rings). Crafting a ring takes one day for each 1,000 gp in | 
its base price. To craft a ring, you must spend 1/25 of its base price | 
in XP and use up raw materials costing one-half of its base price. | 

You can also mend a broken ring if it is one that you could | 
make. Doing so costs half the XP, half the raw materials, and half | 
the time it would take to forge that ring in the first place. 

Some magic rings incur extra costs in material components or 
XP, as noted in their descriptions. For example, a ring of three wishes 
costs 15,000 XP in addition to costs derived from its base price (as 
many XP as it costs to cast wish three times). You must pay such a 
cost to forge such a ring or to mend a broken one. 


GREAT CLEAVE [GENERAL] 


You can wield a melee weapon with such power that you can 
strike multiple times when you fell your foes. 

Prerequisites: Str 13, Cleave, Power Attack, base attack bonus +4. 

Benefit: This feat works like Cleave, except that there is no 
limit to the number of times you can use it per round. 

Special: A fighter may select Great Cleave as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


GREAT FORTITUDE [GENERAL] 


You are tougher than normal. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws. 


GREATER SPELL FOCUS [GENERAL] 


Choose a school of magic to which you already have applied the 
Spell Focus feat. Your spells of that school are now even more 
potent than before. 

Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws | 
against spells from the school of magic you select. This banua) 
stacks with the bonus from Spell Focus. 

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its | effects do no not] 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of] 
magic to which you already have applied the Spell Focus feat. | 


GREATER SPELL PENETRATION [GENERAL] 


Your spells are remarkably potent, breaking through spell resist- 
ance more readily than normal. 


An 


spell (instead of a 2nd-level spell), and it would in all ways be, 
treated as a 4th-level spell. 


4 
IMPROVED BULL RUSH [GENERAL] < 
L {You know how to push opponents back. 


GREATER TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING | | Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 
[GENERAL] Benefit: When you perform a bull rush (page 154), you do not 


Prerequisite: Spell Penetration. 

Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + 
caster level) made to overcome a creature's spell resistance. This 
bonus stacks with the one from Spell Penetration (see page 100). 


+ 


| You are a master at fighting two-handed. | 
Prerequisites: Dex 19, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Two-} 


‚Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +11. 
Benefit: You get a third attack with your off-hand weapon,| 
ialbeit at a —10 penalty. 
Special: A fighter may select Greater Two- -Weapon Fighting as 
one of his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat 
style is treated as having Greater Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he 
„does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing 
light or no armor (see page 48). 


GREATER WEAPON FOCUS [GENERAL] 


Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which you have | 


already selected Weapon Focus. You can also choose unarmed 

strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this feat. You are 

especially good at using this weapon. 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon 

Focus with selected weapon, fighter level sth. 

_ Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using 
ithe selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses on 
‘attack rolls, including the one from Weapon Focus (see below). 

Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Focus multiple times. Its 

Leffects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new 

|type of weapon. 

_A fighter must have Greater Weapon Focus swith a given weapon 
lto gain the Greater Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon. 

A fighter may select Greater Weapon Focus as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


„the defender. 


+ 


provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender. You also gain 
a +4 bonus on the opposed Strength check you make to push back | 


Special: A fighter may select Improved Bull Rush as one of his] 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


IMPROVED COUNTERSPELL [GENERAL] i 


You understand the nuances of magic to such an extent that you. 
can counter your opponent's spells with great efficiency. 
Benefit: When counterspelling, you may use a spell of the same 


¿school that is one or more spell levels higher than the target spell. . 


Normal: Without this feat, you may counter a spell only with, 


the same spell or with a spell specifically designated as countering 


the target spell. 


Choose one type of weapon, such as longsword or greataxe. With 

that weapon, you know how to hit where it hurts. __ 
Prerequisite: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8. 
Benefit: When using the weapon you selected, your threat | 


IMPROVED CRITICAL [GENERAL]. 


irange is doubled. For example, a longsword usually threatens ; af 


critical hit on a roll of 19-20 (two numbers). If a character using a 
longsword has Improved Critical (longsword), the threat range | 
becomes 17-20 (four numbers). 

Special: You can gain Improved Critical multiple times. The] 
effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new | 
type of weapon. 

This effect doesn't stack with any other effect that expands the 
threat range of a weapon (such as the keen edge spell). 

A fighter may select Improved Critical as one of his fighter 


1 


GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION _ } bonus feats (see page 38). 
[GENERAL] = 
Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which ; you have) IMPROVED D ISARM [GENERAL] 
already selected Weapon Specialization. You can also choose, You know how to disarm opponents in melee combat. 
unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. 
feat. You deal extra damage when using this weapon. Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Greater attempt to disarm an opponent, nor does the opponent have a 
Weapon Focus with selected weapon, Weapon Focus with selected chance to disarm you. You also gain a +4 bonus on the opposed 
weapon, Weapon Specialization with selected weapon, fighter attack roll you make to disarm your opponent. 
level 12th. Normal: See the normal disarm rules, page 155. 
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make Special: A fighter may select Improved Disarm as one of his 
using the selected weapon. This bonus stacks with other bonuses fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
Lon damage rolls, including the one from Weapon Specialization A monk may select Improved Disarm as a bonus feat at 6th 
(see below). level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. 


Special: You can gain Greater Weapon Specialization multiple a el 
times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it IMPROVED FEINT [GENERAL] 
applies to a new type of weapon. You are skilled at misdirecting your opponent's attention in combat. 
A fighter may select Greater Weapon Specialization as one of Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. 
Benefit: You can make a Bluff check to feint in combat as a 


his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
move action. 
Normal: Feinting in combat is a standard action. 


HEIGHTEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] E 
You can cast a spell as if it were a higher-level spell than it actually is. A fighter may select Improved Feint as one of his fighter bonus | | 
feats (see page 38). —— | 


Benefit: A heightened spell has a higher spell level than 
IMPROVED GRAPPLE [GENERAL] | 
$ 


— e 


normal (up to a maximum of 9th level). Unlike other metamagic 
You are skilled at grappling opponents. 


feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the 
{spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Improved Unarmed Strike. 
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 


| make a touch attack to start a grapple. You also gain a +4 bonus on 
all grapple checks, regardless of whether you started the grapple. 


| bility) are calculated according to the heightened level. The height- 
ened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective | 
level. For example, a cleric could prepare hold person as a 4th-level | 


o5 


Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportu- 
nity when you make a touch attack to start a grapple. 

Special: A fighter may select Improved Grapple as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 

A monk may select Improved Grapple as a bonus feat at 1st. 
level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. 


IMPROVED INITIATIVE [GENERAL] 


ou can react more quickly than normal in a fight. 

Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on initiative checks. 
| Special: A fighter may select Improved Initiative as one of his | 
[fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


IMPROVED OVERRUN [GENERAL] 


You are skilled at knocking down opponents. 

Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 

Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent, the target 
may not choose to avoid you. You also gain a +4 bonus on your 
Strength check to knock down your opponent. i 

| Normal: Without this feat, the target of an overrun can choose | 
to avoid you or to block you. 

Special: A fighter may select Improved Overrun as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


IMPROVED PRECISE SHOT [GENERAL] 


Your ranged attacks can ignore the effects of cover or conceal- 
ment. 

| Prerequisites: Dex 19, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base 

Lattack bonus +11. 

i Benefit: Your ranged attacks ignore the AC bonus granted to 

itargets by anything less than total cover, and the miss chance 

| granted to targets by anything less than total concealment. Total 

_cover and total concealment provide their normal benefits against 

lyour ranged attacks. 

__ In addition, when you shoot or throw ranged weapons at a grap- 
pling opponent, you automatically strike at the opponent you 
have chosen. 

Normal: See pages 150-152 for rules on the effects of cover and | 
concealment. Without this feat, a character who shoots or throws] 
a ranged weapon at a target involved in a grapple must roll ran- Bi 
domly to see which grappling combatant the attack strikes. Ji 

Special: A fighter may select Improved Precise Shot as one of | 
his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 

An 11th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style 
is treated as having Improved Precise Shot, even if he does not 
have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or 
no armor (see page 48). 


IMPROVED SHIELD BASH [GENERAL] 


[You can bash with a shield while retaining its shield bonus to your 
_Armor Class. 

Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency. 

Benefit: When you perform a shield bash, you may still apply 
the shield’s shield bonus to your AC. 

Normal: Without this feat, a character who performs a shield 
bash loses the shield’s shield bonus to AC until his or her next 
turn. 

Special: A fighter may select Improved Shield Bash as one of 
his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


IMPROVED SUNDER [GENERAL] 
es are skilled at attacking your opponents’ weapons and shields, 


-T 
+ 
tł 
+ 


as well as other objects. 

Prerequisites: Str 13, Power Attack. 

Benefit: When you strike at an object held or carried by an 
opponent (such as a weapon or shield), you do not provoke an | 
attack of opportunity (see Sunder, page 158). 4 


+ 


OG, 


You also gain a +4 bonus on any attack roll made to attack an, 
object held or carried by another character. 
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of oppor-| 
tunity when you strike at an object held or carried by another. 
icharacter. 
_ Special: A fighter may select Improved Sunder as one of his 
\fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


IMPROVED TRIP [GENERAL] 


‚You are trained not only in tripping opponents safely but also in | 
| following through with an attack. 
Prerequisites: Int 13, Combat Expertise. ae 

Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you 

attempt to trip an opponent while you are unarmed. You also gai | 
a +4 bonus on your Strength check to trip your opponent. 

Ifyou trip an opponent in melee combat, you immediately get a 
(melee attack against that opponent as if you hadn't used your 
Jattack for the trip attempt. For example, at 11th level, Tordek gets , 
\three attacks at bonuses of +11, +6, and +1. In the current round, . 
he attempts to trip his opponent. His first attempt fails (using up 

his first attack). His second attempt succeeds, and he immediately , 
makes a melee attack against his opponent with a bonus of +6., 
Finally, he takes his last attack at a bonus of +1. | 
Normal: Without this feat, you provoke an attack of opportu- 
nity when you attempt to trip an opponent while you are 
unarmed. See Trip, page 158. —_ 

Special: At 6th level, a monk may select t Improved Trip as a 
bonus feat, even if she does not have the prerequisites. | 

A fighter may select Improved Trip as one of his fighter bonus | 

feats (see page 38). —— 


Í 
— — 4 


= | 


4 


IMPROVED TURNING [GENERAL] _ = 


Your turning or rebuking attempts are more powerful than, 
normal. 
Prerequisite: Ability to turn or rebuke creatures. — 
Benefit: You turn or rebuke creatures as if you were one level 
higher than you are in the class that grants you the ability. _ 


IMPROVED TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING 
[GENERAL] 
You are an expert in fighting two-handed. 

Prerequisites: Dex 17, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack 
bonus +6. 

Benefit: In addition to the standard single extra attack you get 
with an offhand weapon, you get a second attack with it, albeit at a 
—5 penalty (see Table 8-10, page 160). 

Normal: Without this feat, you can only get a single extra 
attack with an off-hand weapon. 

Special: A fighter may select Improved Two-Weapon Fighting 
as one of his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 

A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon combat 
style is treated as having Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, even if 
he does not have the prerequisites for it, but only when he is wear- 
ing light or no armor (see page 48). 


IMPROVED UNARMED STRIKE [GENERAL] 


You are skilled at fighting while unarmed. =e 
Benefit: You are considered to be armed even when. un-| 
armed—that is, you do not provoke attacks or opportunity from | 
armed opponents when you attack them while unarmed. How- | 
Lever, you still get an attack of opportunity against any opponent | 
who makes an unarmed attack on you. __ L 
In addition, your unarmed strikes can deal lethal or nonlethal | 
damage, at your option. 
Normal: Without this feat, you are considered unarmed when 
attacking with an unarmed strike, and you can deal only nonlethal 
damage with such an attack. 


Special: A monk automatically gains Improved Unarmed 
Strike as a bonus feat at 1st level. She need not select it. 

A fighter may select Improved Unarmed Strike as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


INVESTIGATOR [GENERAL] 
You have a knack for finding information. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Gather Information checks 


and Search checks. 
TRON WILL [GENERAL] 


You have a stronger will than normal. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws. 


LEADERSHIP [GENERAL] 
You are the sort of person others want to follow, and you have 
done some work attempting to recruit cohorts and followers. 

Prerequisite: Character level 6th. 

Benefit: You can attract loyal companions and devoted 
followers, subordinates who assist you. Your DM has 
information on what sort of cohort and how many fol- 

) {! lowers you can recruit. 


Special: Check with your DM before selecting this feat, 
and work with your DM to determine an appropriate cohort and 
followers for your character (the Dungeon Master’s Guide has more 
information on cohorts and followers). 


LIGHTNING REFLEXES [GENERAL] 


You have faster than normal reflexes. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws. 


MAGICAL APTITUDE [GENERAL] 


You have a knack for magical endeavors. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use 
Magic Device checks. 


MANYSHOT [GENERAL] 


You can fire multiple arrows simultaneously against a nearby 
target. 


Attacking with two arrows, 
thanks to the Manyshot feat 


Prerequisites: Dex 17, Point Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, base 
attack bonus +6 

Benefit: As a standard action, you may fire two arrows at.a 
single opponent within 30 feet. Both arrows use the same attack 
roll (with a —4 penalty) to determine success and deal damage nor- 
mally (but see Special). 

For every five points of base attack bonus you have above +6, 
you may add one additional arrow to this attack, to a maximum of 
four arrows at a base attack bonus of +16. However, each arrow 
after the second adds a cumulative —2 penalty on the attack roll 
(for a total penalty of —6 for three arrows and —8 for four). 

Damage reduction and other resistances apply separately 
against each arrow fired. 

Special: Regardless of the number of arrows you fire, you apply 
precision-based damage (such as sneak attack damage ) only once. 
If you score a critical hit, only the first arrow fired deals critical 
damage; all others deal regular damage. 

A fighter may select Manyshot as one of his fighter bonus feats 

(see page 38). 
A 6th-level ranger who has chosen the archery combat style is 
_ treated as having Manyshot even if he does not have the 
à prerequisites for it, but only when he is wearing light or 
no armor (see page 48). 


MARTIAL WEAPON 

PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 

Choose a type of martial weapon, such as a long- 

bow (see Table 7-5: Weapons, page 116, for a list 

of martial weapons). You understand how to 

use that type of mar- 
tial weapon in 
—— combat. 

Use this feat to ex- 
pand the list of weapons with which 
you are proficient beyond the basic list in 
your class description. 

Benefit: You make attack rolls with the 
selected weapon normally. 
Normal: When using a weapon with which 
you are not proficient, you take a —4 penalty on 
attack rolls. 

Special: Barbarians, fighters, paladins, and 
rangers are proficient with all martial weapons. 
They need not select this feat. 

You can gain Martial Weapon Proficiency multiple 
times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type 
of weapon. 

A cleric who chooses the War domain automatically gains the 
Martial Weapon Proficiency feat related to his deity’s favored 
weapon as a bonus feat, ifthe weapon is a martial one. He need not 
select it. 

A sorcerer or wizard who casts the spell Tenser’s transformation on 
himself or herself gains proficiency with all martial weapons for 
the duration of the spell. 


MAXIMIZE SPELL [METAMAGIC] 
You can cast spells to maximum effect. 

Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of a spell modified by this 
feat are maximized. A maximized spell deals maximum damage, 
cures the maximum number of hit points, affects the maximum 
number of targets, etc., as appropriate. For example, a maximized 
fireball deals 6 points of damage per caster level (up to a maximum 
of 60 points of damage at 10th caster level). Saving throws and op- 
posed rolls (such as the one you make when you cast dispel magic) 
are not affected, nor are spells without random variables. A maxi- 
mized spell uses up a spell slot three levels higher than the spell’s 
actual level. 


Á 


N 
S 
a 
> 
SX 
N 
x. 
= 


POINT BLANK SHOT [GENERAL] ES | 


You are skilled at making well-placed shots with ranged weapons | 
at close range. | 
Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with | 
ranged weapons at ranges of up to 30 feet. 
_ Special: A fighter may select Point Blank Shot as one of his 
\fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


An empowered, maximized spell gains the separate benefits of 
each feat: the maximum result plus one-half the normally rolled 
result. An empowered, maximized fireball cast by a 15th-level 
wizard deals points of damage equal to 60 plus one-half of 10d6. 


MOBILITY [GENERAL] 


You are skilled at dodging past opponents and avoiding blows. sf 


Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge. 


[ Benefit: You get a +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against | 


„attacks of opportunity caused when you move out of or within a | 


threatened area. A condition that makes you lose your Dexterity | 


[bonus to Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. 
Dodge bonuses (such as this one and a dwarf’s racial bonus on 
dodge attempts against giants) stack with each other, unlike most 
types of bonuses. 

Special: A fighter may select Mobility as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


MOUNTED ARCHERY [GENERAL] i 


[You are skilled at using ranged weapons while mounted. 
Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat. 


Benefit: The penalty you take when using a ranged weapon | 


while mounted is halved: —2 instead of —4 if your mount is taking 
a double move, and —4 instead of -8 if your mount is running (see 
Mounted Combat, page 157). 

Special: A fighter may select Mounted Archery as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


MOUNTED COMBAT [GENERAL] 


‘You are skilled in mounted combat. 
| Prerequisite: Ride 1 rank. OA 

| Benefit: Once per round when your mount is | s hit in combat, 
_you may attempt a Ride check (as a reaction) to negate the hit. The 
Lhit is negated if your Ride check result is greater than the oppo- 
‘nent’s attack roll. (Essentially, the Ride check result becomes the 
mount’s Armor Class if it’s higher than the mount’s regular AC.) 


Special: A fighter may select Mounted Combat as one of his. 


fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


POWER ATTACK [GENERAL] 


You can make exceptionally powerful melee attacks. =| 


Prerequisite: Str 13. 4 

Benefit: On your action, before making attack ro olls fora around, 
you may choose to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls 
and add the same number to all melee damage rolls. This number , 
may not exceed your base attack bonus. The penalty on attacks and | 
bonus on damage apply until your next turn. 

Special: If you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a 


[one-handed weapon wielded in two hands, instead add twice the, 
\number subtracted from your attack rolls. You can't add the bonus 
_from Power Attack to the damage dealt with a light weapon 


(except with unarmed strikes or natural weapon attacks), even. 
though the penalty on attack rolls still applies. (Normally, you, 
treat a double weapon as a one-handed weapon and a light 
weapon. If you choose to use a double weapon like a two-handed 
weapon, attacking with only one end of it ina round, you treat it as 
a two-handed weapon.) 

A fighter may select Power Attack as one of his fi ighter ‘bonus. 


feats (see page 38). 4 


PRECISE SHOT [GENERAL] PA 


You are skilled at timing and aiming ranged attacks. 
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot. ee 
Benefit: You can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an oppo- 

nent engaged in melee without taking the standard —4 penalty on 

your attack roll (see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 140). 
Special: A fighter may select Precise Shot as one of his fighter 

bonus feats (see page 38). ——— 


ESSER | QUICK DRAW [GENERAL] 


You can draw weapons with startling speed. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. 


NATURAL SPELL [GENERAL] 


You can cast spells while in a wild shape. Í 


Prerequisites: Wis 13, wild shape ability. 
Benefit: You can complete the verbal and somatic components 
of spells while in a wild shape. For example, while in the form of a 
hawk, you could substitute screeches and gestures with your 
talons for the normal verbal and somatic components of a spell. 
You can also use any material components or focuses you possess, 
„even if such items are melded within your current form. This feat 
does not permit the use of magic items while you are in a form 
ithat could not ordinarily use them, and you do not gain the ability 
{to speak while in a wild shape. 


NEGOTIATOR [GENERAL] 
You are good at gauging and swaying attitudes. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy checks and Sense 
Motive checks. 


NIMBLE FINGERS [GENERAL] — 
You are adept at manipulating small, delicate objects. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Disable Device checks and 
_Open Lock checks. 


PERSUASIVE [GENERAL] 


You have a way with words and body language. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Bluff checks and Intimidate 


Benefit: You can draw a weapon as a free action instead of as a 
move action. You can draw a hidden weapon (see the Sleight of 
Hand skill, page 81) as a move action. _ 

A character who has selected this feat may throw weapons at his 
full normal rate of attacks (much like a character with a bow). 

Normal: Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a move 
action, or (if your base attack bonus is +1 or higher) as a free action 
as part of movement (see page 142). Without this feat, you can 
draw a hidden weapon as a standard action. 

Special: A fighter may select Quick Draw as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


QUICKEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] 


You can cast a spell with a moment's thought. 

Benefit: Casting a quickened spell is a free action. You can per- 
form another action, even casting another spell, in the same round | 
as you cast a quickened spell. You may cast only one quickened | 
spell per round. A spell whose casting time is more than 1 full- | 
round action cannot be quickened. A quickened spell uses up a i 


ispell slot four levels higher than the spell’s actual level. Casting a, 


quickened spell doesn't provoke an attack of opportunity. | 
Special: This feat can't be applied to any spell cast sponta-| 


‘neously (including sorcerer spells, bard spells, and cleric or druid 
‘spells cast spontaneously), since applying a metamagic feat to a 


checks. _| [spontaneously cast spell automatically increases the casting time 
| to a full-round action. 


98% 


RAPID SHOT 
[GENERAL] 


RIDE-BY ATTACK [GENERAL] 


h d Ws a e’ > = m m ` He * 


ign on ae “a Se Tr eS ire BES SN at Bee ae 7 ne, RE pr ‘ 
a2 

RAPID RELOAD [GENERAL] attack as if with a standard charge and then move again (continu- 

Choose a type of crossbow (hand, light, or heavy). You can reload a ing the straight line of the charge). Your total movement for the 

crossbow of that type more quickly than normal. round can’t exceed double your mounted speed. You and your 

Prerequisite: Weapon Proficiency (crossbow type chosen). mount do not provoke an attack of opportunity from the oppo- 

Benefit: The time required for you to reload your chosen type nent that you attack. 

of crossbow is reduced to a free action (for a hand or light cross- Special: A fighter may select Ride-By Attack as one of his 

bow) or a move action (for a heavy —— — fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


crossbow). Reloading a cross- i 


bow still provokes an attack 
of opportunity. 

If you have selected this 
feat for hand 
crossbow or 
light crossbow, 
you may fire 
that weap- pf 
on as many ASe 
times in a full attack 
action as you could \ 
attack if you were using 
a bow. 

Normal: A character 
without this feat needs a 
move action to reload a 
hand or light crossbow, - 


RUN [GENERAL] 
You are fleet of foot. 
Benefit: When run- 
ning, you move five times 
\ your normal speed (if 
wearing medium, light, 
or no armor and carry- 


ing no more than a 
> medium load) or four 
q! times your speed (if 


wearing heavy 
armor or carrying 
a heavy load). If you 
make a jump after a 
running start (see 
the Jump skill 
description, page 77), 


or a full-round action to 7 g you gain a +4 bonus on 
reload a heavy crossbow. your Jump check. While 

Special: You can gain l q i “ae í running, you retain your 
Rapid Reload multiple times. A f Z. ‘ Dexterity bonus to AC. 
Each time you take the feat, it ay ae a 4 \ Normal: You move 
applies to a new type of cross- - OS four times your speed 
bow. Y while running (if wear- 


ing medium, light, or 
no armor and carry- 
ing no more than a 
medium load) or three times 
your speed (if wearing heavy 
armor or carrying a heavy load), 
and you lose your Dexterity 
Å bonus to AC. 


| SCRIBE SCROLL 
Ẹ [ITEM CREATION] 
f Youcan create scrolls, from which 
you or another a spellcaster can 
cast the scribed spells. See the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide for rules on 
scrolls. 
Prerequisite: Caster level 1st. 
Benefit: You can create a scroll 
of any spell that you know. 
h Scribing a scroll takes one 
day for each 1,000 gp in its 
base price. The base price of 
a scroll is its spell level x its 
l caster level x 25 gp. To 
Í scribe a scroll, you must 
| i spend 1/25 of this base price 
in XP and use up raw materi- 
< als costing one-half of this 
A. base price. 
P 
A- Any scroll that stores a spell 
> 


A fighter may select Rapid 
Reload as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


You can use ranged weap- 
ons with exceptional 
speed. 

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Point 
Blank Shot. 

Benefit: You can get one extra attack 
per round with a ranged weapon. The attack is 
at your highest base attack bonus, but each 
attack you make in that round (the extra one 
and the normal ones) takes a —2 penalty. You 
must use the full attack action (see page 143) to 
use this feat. 

Special: A fighter may select Rapid Shot as 
one of his fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 

A 2nd-level ranger who has chosen the 
archery combat style is treated as having Rapid 
Shot, even if he does not have the prerequisites 
for it, but only when he is wearing light or no 
armor (see page 48). 


You are skilled at making fast attacks from your 
mount. 

Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted 
Combat. 

Benefit: When you are 
mounted and use the charge 


with a costly material compo- 
nent or an XP cost also carries 
P a commensurate cost. In 


action, you may move and i Mialee casts a spell from v S addition to the costs 
a scroll she scribed. ko m 
+t 
sa ES 
22 Pre m m 77S 
pes Se sn tae ee’ Steg CE oe aire 
T ba . ite Se ae = $ x Ér 


Š 
`A 
© 
S 
© 
$ 
ş 
ÊX 


| 


derived from the base price, you must expend the material compo- 
nent or pay the XP when scribing the scroll. 


SELF-SUFFICIENT [GENERAL] 


You can take care of yourself in harsh environments and situa-_ 
tions. 


Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Heal checks and Survival. 


| checks. 
t 
SHIELD PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] | 


(You are proficient with bucklers, light shields, and heavy shields. | 
|__ Benefit: You can use a shield and take only the standard penalties 
„(see Table 7-6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 

Normal: When you are using a shield with which you are 
not proficient, you take the shield’s armor check penalty on i 
attack rolls and on all Strength-based or 

_Dexterity-based ability and skill checks. 

Special: Barbarians, bards, clerics, 

druids, fighters, paladins, and rangers 
|automatically have Shield Proficiency 
as a bonus feat. They need not select it. 


SHOT ON THE RUN 
[GENERAL] 
You are highly trained in skirmish range 
weapon tactics. 
_ Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, PK 
[Point Blank Shot, base attack bonus +4. 
| Benefit: When using the attack action 8 


\ 


move action in that round in order to move b 
\both before and after the attack, provided that — 
_your total distance moved is not greater than 
lyour speed. 
___ Special: A fighter may select Shot on the Run as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


SILENT SPELL [METAMAGIC] 


You can cast spells silently. = 
Benefit: A silent spell can be cast with no verbal compo- 
nents. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A. 
silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s 
actual level. 
Special: Bard spells cannot be enhanced by this metamagic feat. 


SIMPLE WEAPON PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 


You understand how to use all types of simple weapons in 
‚combat (see Table 7-5: Weapons, page 116, for a list of simple 
weapons). > 
__ Benefit: You make attack rolls with simple weapons normally. 
| Normal: When using a weapon with which you are not profi- 
cient, you take a —4 penalty on attack rolls. 

Special: All characters except for druids, monks, and wizards 
are automatically proficient with all simple weapons. They need 
not select this feat. a 

A sorcerer or wizard who casts the spell Tenser’s transformation 
on himself or herself gains proficiency with all simple weapons 
for the duration of the spell. 


SKILL FOCUS [GENERAL] 


Choose a skill, such as Move Silently. You have a special knack 


enc skill. = 


+ 


Benefit: You get a +3 bonus on all checks involving that 
skill. 

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new skill. 


eee AES LIAA —- 


— + 
| 


SNATCH ARROWS [GENERAL] SA 


You are adept at grabbing incoming arrows, as well as crossbow | 
bolts, spears, and other projectile or thrown weapons. | 
Prerequisites: Dex 15, Deflect Arrows, Improved Unarmed | 
|Strike. 
| Benefit: When using the Deflect Arrows feat (page 93), you may 
icatch the weapon instead of just deflecting it. Thrown weapons, 
such as spears or axes, can immediately be thrown back at the orig- 
inal attacker (even though it isn't your turn) or kept for later use., 
You must have at least one hand free (holding nothing) to use | 
| this feat. 2 } 
Special: A fighter may select Snatch Arrows as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


SPELL FOCUS [GENERAL] | 
Choose a school of magic, such as illu- 
2_ sion. Your spells of that school are more 

potent than normal. | 

Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty, 
Class for all saving throws against spells 

from the school of magic you select. 

Special: You can gain this feat mul- 

‘J tiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each | 
time you take the feat, it applies to a 

new school of magic. — 


SPELL MASTERY _— 
[GENERAL] e 4 
You are so intimately familiar with certain | 
_, spells that you don't need a spellbook to | 
prepare them anymore. = 
W _ Prerequisite: Wizard level ist. _ | 
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, | 
choose a number of spells equal to your Intelli- 
gence modifier that you already know. From that point on, you can 
prepare these spells without referring to a spellbook. 
Normal: Without this feat, you must use a spellbook to prepare 
all your spells, except read magic. 


SPELL PENETRATION [GENERAL] 


Your spells are especially potent, breaking through spell resistance 
more readily than normal. =a 

Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + 
caster level) made to overcome a creature's spell resistance. 


SPIRITED CHARGE [GENERAL] 

You are trained at making a devastating mounted charge. 
Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat, Ride-By Attack. 
Benefit: When mounted and using the charge action, you 

deal double damage with a melee weapon (or triple damage with 

a lance). 

Special: A fighter may select Spirited Charge as one of his 

fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


SPRING ATTACK [GENERAL] 


You are trained in fast melee attacks and fancy footwork. 
Prerequisites: Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4. | 
Benefit: When using the attack action with a melee weapon, you | 

can split your move action in that round in order to move both | 

before and after the attack, provided that your total distance moved | 


+ 


= co, 
—— 


— -= 


an attack of opportunity from the defender you attack, though it} 
might provoke attacks of opportunity from other creatures, if appro- | 
| priate. You can't use this feat if you are wearing heavy armor. 
You must move at least 5 feet both before and after you make 
your attack in order to utilize the benefits of Spring Attack. 


Special: A fighter may select Spring Attack as one of his fighter ' 


bonus feats (see page 38). 


STEALTHY [GENERAL] 


You are particularly good at avoiding notice. 
Benefit: You get a +2 bonus on all Hide checks and Move | 
Silently checks. 


STILL SPELL [METAMAGIC] 


You can cast spells without gestures. 


Benefit: A stilled spell can be cast with no somatic compo-. 


nents. Spells without somatic components are not affected. A 
„stilled spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s 
actual level. 


STUNNING FIST [GENERAL] 
You know how to strike opponents in vulnerable areas. 


$ 


Ļattack bonus +8. 


Benefit: You must declare that you are using this feat before | 
you make your attack roll (thus, a failed attack roll ruins the, 


attempt). Stunning Fist forces a foe damaged by your unarmed 
attack to make a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 your char- 
acter level + your Wis modifier), in addition to dealing damage 
normally. A defender who fails this saving throw is stunned for 
1 round (until just before your next action). A stunned character 
Lcan't act, drops anything held, loses any Dexterity bonus to AC, 
Land takes a—2 penalty to AC. You may attempt a stunning attack 
once per day for every four levels you have attained (but see Spe- 
\cial), and no more than once per round. Constructs, oozes, 
plants, undead, incorporeal creatures, and creatures immune to 
critical hits cannot be stunned. 
Special: A monk may select Stunning Fist as a bonus feat at 1st 
\level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites. A monk who 
selects this feat may attempt a stunning attack a number of times 
per day equal to her monk level, plus one more time per day for 
every four levels she has in classes other than monk. 
A fighter may select Stunning Fist as one of his fighter bonus, 
feats (see page 38). 


TOUGHNESS [GENERAL] 


You are tougher than normal. 

Benefit: You gain +3 hit points. 

Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its 
effects stack. 


TOWER SHIELD PROFICIENCY [GENERAL] 


„You are proficient with tower shields. 
Prerequisite: Shield Proficiency. _ 
Benefit: You can use a tower shield and suffer only the standard 

| penalties (see Table 7-6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 

Normal: A character who is using a shield with which he or 
she is not proficient takes the shield’s armor check penalty on 
attack rolls and on all Strength-based or Dexterity-based ability 
and skill checks. 

Special: Fighters automatically have Tower Shield Proficiency 
as a bonus feat. They need not select it. 


TRACK [GENERAL] 


You can follow the trails of creatures and characters across most 
_types of terrain. 

Benefit: To find tracks or to follow them for 1 mile requires a 
_\successful Survival check. You must make another Survival 
{check every time the tracks become difficult to follow, such as 

when other tracks cross them or when the tracks backtrack and 
diverge. 


Prerequisites: Dex 13, Wis 13, Improved Unarmed Strike, base | 


You move at half your normal speed (or at your normal speed , 
with a—5 penalty on the check, or at up to twice your normal, 
speed with a —20 penalty on the check). The DC depends on the | 
surface and the prevailing conditions, as given on the table below: 


| Surface Survival DC Surface Survival DC 
| Very soft ground 5 Firm ground 15 
Soft ground 10 Hard ground 20 


Very Soft Ground: Any surface (fresh snow, thick dust, wet mud) | 
that holds deep, clear impressions of footprints. 

Soft Ground: Any surface soft enough to yield to pressure, but. 
firmer than wet mud or fresh snow, in which a creature leaves fre- 
quent but shallow footprints. 

Firm Ground: Most normal outdoor surfaces (such as lawns. | 
fields, woods, and the like) or exceptionally soft or dirty indoor 


(surfaces (thick rugs and very dirty or dusty floors). The creature 


+ 


imight leave some traces (broken branches or tufts of hair), but it, 
\leaves only occasional or partial footprints. 

Hard Ground: Any surface that doesn't hold footprints at all, such | 
as bare rock or an indoor floor. Most streambeds fall into this cate-_ 
gory, since any footprints left behind are obscured or washed away. , 
The creature leaves only traces (scuff marks or displaced pebbles). 

Several modifiers may apply to the Survival check, as given on 
the table below. 


Condition Survival DC Modifier __ 
| Every three creatures in the group being tracked -1 4 
Size of creature or creatures being tracked:' a 4 
Fine +8 ! 
Diminutive +4 _4 
Tiny +2 4 
Small +] 4 
Medium +0 
Large a 
Huge z2 
Gargantuan ——— pa 
Colossal -8 
Every 24 hours since the trail was made +1 
Every hour of rain since the trail was made +l 
Fresh snow cover since the trail was made +10 
Poor visibility:? 
Overcast or moonless night == +6 
Moonlight +3 
Fog or precipitation +3 


TRAMPLE [GENERAL] l 


Tracked party hides trail (and moves at half speed) +5 

1 For a group of mixed sizes, apply only the modifier for the largest 
size category. 

2 Apply only the largest modifier from this category. 


Ifyou fail a Survival check, you can retry after 1 hour (outdoors) or 
10 minutes (indoors) of searching. 

Normal: Without this feat, you can use the Survival skill to 
find tracks, but you can follow them only if the DC for the task is 
10 or lower. Alternatively, you can use the Search skill to find a 
footprint or similar sign of a creature’s passage using the DCs 
given above, but you can't use Search to follow tracks, even if. 
someone else has already found them. 

Special: A ranger automatically has Track as a bonus feat. He | | 
need not select it. z 

This feat does not allow you to find or follow the tracks made by | 
a subject of a pass without trace spell. i 


| You are trained in using your mount to knock down opponents. 


Prerequisites: Ride 1 rank, Mounted Combat. 


Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent while 
mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you. Your mount 
may make one hoof attack against any target you knock down, 
gaining the standard +4 bonus on attack rolls against prone targets 
(see Overrun, page 157). 1 

Special: A fighter may select Trample as one of his fighter 

bonus feats (see page 38). 


TWO-WEAPON DEFENSE [GENERAL] 


Your two-weapon fighting style bolsters your defense as well as | 
_your offense. 

Prerequisites: Dex 15, Two- Weapon Fighting. 

Benefit: When wielding a double weapon or two weapons (not 
including natural weapons or unarmed strikes), you gain a +1 
shield bonus to your AC. _ 

When you are fighting defensively or using the total defense 
„action, this shield bonus increases to +2. 

Special: A fighter may select Two-Weapon Defense as one of 
phis fighter bonus feats (see page 38). i 


TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING [GENERAL] 


You can fight with a weapon in each hand. You can make one extra 
attack each round with the second weapon. 

Prerequisite: Dex 15. 

Benefit: Your penalties on attack rolls for fighting with two 
weapons are reduced. The penalty for your primary hand lessens 
by 2 and the one for your off hand lessens by 6. 

| Normal: See Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160, and Table 8—10: 
|Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties, page 160. 

| Special: A 2nd-level ranger who has chosen the two-weapon 
| Specia. evel ranger who has chosen the two-weap 
combat style is treated as having Two-Weapon Fighting, even if he 
| does not have the prerequisite for it, but only when he is wearing 
light or no armor (see page 48). 

| A fighter may select Two-Weapon cuca as one of his fighter 
‘bonus feats (see page 38). 


WEAPON FINESSE [GENERAL] 


You are especially skilled at using weapons that can benefit as, 

much from Dexterity as from Strength. 
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1. L 
Benefit: With a light weapon, rapier, whip, or spiked chain. 

made for a creature of your size category, you may use your 


T 
+ 
tł 
4 


H 


Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack. 
rolls. If you carry a shield, its armor check penalty applies to. 
your attack rolls. { 
Special: A fighter may select Weapon Finesse as one of his. 
\fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 
| Natural weapons are always considered light weapons. 


WEAPON FOCUS [GENERAL] 


Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe. You can also choose. 
unarmed strike or grapple (or ray, if you are a spellcaster) as your | 
|weapon for purposes of this feat. You are especially good at using | 

this weapon. (If you have chosen ray, you are especially good with 

rays, such as the one produced by the ray of frost spell.) _ 
Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, base attack | 
bonus +1. = i 
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls y you make using 
ithe selected weapon. 
L Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not, 
\stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of, 
weapon. 
A fighter may select Weapon Focus as one of his fighter bonus. 
feats (see page 38). He must have Weapon Focus with a weapon to. 
gain the Weapon Specialization feat for that weapon. 


WEAPON SPECIALIZATION [GENERAL] 


Choose one type of weapon, such as greataxe, for which you have 
already selected the Weapon Focus feat. You can also choose | 
unarmed strike or grapple as your weapon for purposes of this} + 
feat. You deal extra damage when using this weapon. — — } 

Prerequisites: Proficiency with selected weapon, Weapon | 
Focus with selected weapon, fighter level 4th. aa | 

Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on all damage rolls you make | 

using the selected weapon. } 

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not 
stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new type of 
weapon. 

A fighter may select Weapon Specialization as one of his fighter 
bonus feats (see page 38). 


WHIRLWIND ATTACK [GENERAL] 


You can strike nearby opponents in an amazing, spinning attack. 

Prerequisites: Dex 13, Int 13, Combat Expertise, Dodge, 
Mobility, Spring Attack, base attack bonus +4. 

Benefit: When you use the full attack action, you can give up 
your regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at your 
full base attack bonus against each opponent within reach. 

When you use the Whirlwind Attack feat, you also forfeit any 
bonus or extra attacks granted by other feats or abilities (such as 
the Cleave feat or the haste spell). 

Special: A fighter may select Whirlwind Attack as one of his 
fighter bonus feats (see page 38). 


WIDEN SPELL [METAMAGIC] 


You can increase the area of your spells. 

Benefit: You can alter a burst, emanation, line, or spread- 
shaped spell to increase its area. Any numeric measurements of 
the spell’s area increase by 100%. For example, a fireball spell. 
(which normally produces a 20-foot-radius spread) that is widened | 
now fills a 40-foot-radius spread. A widened spell uses up a spell 
slot three levels enact than the spell’s actual level. 


+ iB: 


> Sr 7 


Stas he. 


ee g 


Saint Cthbert D 
Dlisasmmara E 
Rao FE) 
Olas: “> Hai G 
Waski hat does your character look like? How old'is she? 
What sort of first impression does she make? When 
she prays, what deity or deities does she’call on, if 
Fany? What led her to become an adventurer? 
This chapter helps you establish your character’s. 
identity by creating details that make her more lifelike, like a 
main character in a novel or a movie. For many players, the action 
lies hérésin defining a character as dperson to be roleplayed. 
When-you first play a character, it’s fine to leave the details 
sketchy. As you play. thé character over time, you will get a better 
sense.of who you want her tô be. You will develop her details,in 
À much the same way that an author develops a character over sev- 
(ecaa eral drafts of a novel or over several novels in a series. 
This chapter covers alignment (a character's place in the strug- 
gle between good and evil), religion (a character's deity or 


deities), vital statistics (name, gender, age, and so.on), and per- 
sonal description. 


healitas 
Paces 


x 


| Inthe temple of Pelor is an ancient tome. When the temple recruits 


who wants to participate must kiss the book. Those who are evil in 
their hearts are blasted by holy power, and even those who are nei- 
thér good nor evil are stunned. Only those who are good.can kiss 
the tome without harm and are trusted with the temple’s most 
“Np important work. Good and evil are not philosophical concepts in 


Devils in human guise stalk the land, tempting peop! 
~ toward evil. Holy clerics use the power of good to-protect wor-. 
shipers. Devotees of evil gods i bring ruin on innocents to win 


i -“- 
or Hoty SYMBOLS - 


the-favor of their deities, while trusting that rewards await 


adentity. It is not-a straitjacket for restricting your 
J sharacter. Each alignment represents a broad range 
1 adventurers for its most sensitive and important quests, each one/” 


the D&D game. They are the forces that define the cosmos, K 


i his temper, a neutral character/can be inspired to 


== 


Ta 
ji) 


2 


peyemy p hq snr 


them inthe afterlife. Crusading paladins fearlessly con- 
front evildoers, knowing that this short life is nothing 
worth clinging to. Warlords turn to whichever supernat- 
ural power will help them conquer, aid proxies for good 

and evil gods promise rewards i in return for the warlords’ 
oaths of obediénce. 

Acreature’s general moralland RANN attitudes are 
represented by its alignment: lawful good, neutral good, 
chaotic good, lawful neutral, neutral, chaotic neutral, 
lawful evil, neutral evil, or chaotic evil. (See Table 6-1: 
Creature, Race, and Class Alignments, on the next page, 
for examples of whichcreatures, races, and.classes favor 
which alignments.) 

Choose an alignment for your character, using his or 
her race and class as a guide. Most player characters are 
good or neutral rather than evil. In general, evil align- 
ments are for villains and monsters. 

Alignment is à tool for developing your character's 


of personality types or personal philosophies, so two 
lawful good characters can still be quite different 
from each other. In‘addition, few people are com- 
pletely consistent..A lawfulgood\ character may 

have a greedy streak that occasionally tempts him to 

take,something or hoatd something he has, even if 
that’s\not lawful or good behavior. People are also not 
consistent from day. to day. A good character can lose 


~ perform a.noble act, and so õn: 


fos, 


Choosing an alignment for your character means stating your 
intent to play that character a certain way. If your character acts in 
a way more appropriate to another alignment, the DM may decide 
that his alignment has changed to match his actions. 


TYPICAL ALIGNMENTS 


‚Creatures and members of classes shown in italic type on Table 6— al 


lare always of the indicated alignment. Except for paladins, they are | 
‘born into that alignment. It is inherent, part of their nature. Usu- | 
ally, a creature with an inherent alignment has some connection | 
‘(through ancestry, history, or magic) to the Outer Planes or is a| 
| magical beast. 

For other creatures, races, ces, and classes, the indicated alignment 
on Table 6—1 is the typical or most common one. Normal sentient 
creatures can be of any alignment. They may have inherent ten- 
dencies toward a particular alignment, but individuals can vary 

from this norm. Depending on the type of creature, these tenden- 
,cies may be stronger or weaker. For example, kobolds and behold- 
ers are usually lawful evil, but kobolds display more variation inf 

\alignment than beholders because their inborn alignment ten-} 
dency isn't as strong. Also, sentient creatures have cultural ten- ; 
dencies that usually reinforce alignment tendencies. For example, 
orcs tend to be chaotic evil, and their culture tends to produce 
chaotic evil members. A human raised among orcs is more likely 
than normal to be chaotic evil, while an orc raised among humans 
is less likely to be so. 


2 f 
TABLE 6—1; CREATURE, RACE, AND CLASS ALIGNMENTS 


| Lawful Good Neutral Good Chaotic Good 
| Archons Guardinals Eladrins 
¿Gold dragons Gnomes Copper dragons 
{ Lammasus Centaurs Unicorns 
„Dwarves Giant eagles Elves 
| Paladins Pseudodragons Rangers 
Lawful Neutral Neutral Chaotic Neutral 
Monks Animals Half-elves 
Wizards Halflings Half-orcs — 4 
Formians Humans Barbarians + 
Azers Lizardfolk Bards } 
Druids Rogues 4 
Lawful Evil Neutral Evil _ Chaotic Evil 
Devils Drow Demons 
Blue dragons Goblins Red dragons 
Beholders Allips Nightshades 
Ogre mages Ettercaps Troglodytes 
_Hobgoblins Devourers Gnolls 
| Kobolds — Ogres 
| Orcs 


GOOD VS. EVIL 


Good characters and creatures protect innocent life. Evil charac- 
ters and creatures debase or destroy innocent life, whether for fun 
or profit. 

“Good” implies altruism.. respect for life, and a concern for the 
dignity of sentient beings. Good characters make personal sacri- 
fices to help others. 

“Evil” implies hurting, oppressing, and killing others. Some evil 
‚creatures simply have no compassion for others and kill without 
¿qualms if doing so is convenient. Others actively pursue evil, 

killing for sport or out of duty to some evil deity or master. 
ji People who are neutral with respect to good and evil have 
|compunctions against killing the innocent but lack the commit- 
iment to make sacrifices to protect or help others. Neutral people 
are committed to others by personal relationships. A neutral | 
person may sacrifice himself to protect his family or even his. 


homeland, but he would not do so for strangers who are not, 
related to him. 

Being good or evil can be a conscious choice, as with the pal! | 
adin who attempts to live up to her ideals or the evil cleric who. 


causes pain and terror to emulate his god. For most people, 
though, being good or evil is an attitude that one recognizes but 
does not choose. Being neutral on the good—evil axis usually rep- 


resents a lack of commitment one way or the other, but for some it 
represents a positive commitment to a balanced view. While. 


acknowledging that good and evil are objective states, not just. 
lopinions, these folk maintain that a balance between the two is the. 


proper place for people, or at least for them. eae 

Animals and other creatures incapable of moral action are neu- 
tral rather than good or evil. Even deadly vipers and tigers that eat , 
people are neutral because they lack the capacity for morally right | 
or wrong behavior. 


LAW VS. CHAOS 


+ 


Lawful characters tell the truth, keep their word, respect authority,.. 


honor tradition, and judge those who fall short of their duties. 


Chaotic characters follow their consciences, resent being told 
what to do, favor new ideas over tradition, and do what they prom- , 
ise if they feel like it. 

“Law” implies honor, trustworthiness, obedience to authority, 
and reliability. On the downside, lawfulness can include close- 
mindedness, reactionary adherence to tradition, judgmentalness, 
and a lack of adaptability. Those who consciously promote lawful- | 


iness say that only lawful behavior creates a society in which | 


people can depend on each other and make the right decisions in | 
full confidence that others will act as they should. eS 

“Chaos” implies freedom, adaptability, and flexibility. On the 
downside, chaos can include recklessness, resentment toward | 
legitimate authority, arbitrary actions, and irresponsibility. Those | 
who promote chaotic behavior say that only unfettered personal 
freedom allows people to express themselves fully and lets society 
benefit from the potential that its individuals have within them. 

Someone who is neutral with respect to law and chaos has a 
normal respect for authority and feels neither a compulsion to 
obey nor a compulsion to rebel. She is honest but can be tempted 
into lying or deceiving others. 

Devotion to law or chaos may be a conscious choice, but more 
often it is a personality trait that is recognized rather than being 
chosen. Neutrality on the lawful-chaotic axis is usually simply a 
middle state, a state of not feeling compelled toward one side or 
the other. Some few such neutrals, however, espouse neutrality as 
superior to law or chaos, regarding each as an extreme with its 
own blind spots and drawbacks. 

Animals and other creatures incapable of moral action are neu- 
tral. Dogs may be obedient and cats free-spirited, but they do not 
have the moral capacity to be truly lawful or chaotic. 


THE NINE ALIGNMENTS 


Nine distinct alignments define all the possible combinations of 
the lawful-chaotic axis with the good—evil axis. Each alignment 
description below depicts a typical character of that alignment. 
Remember that individuals vary from this norm, and that a given 
character may act more or less in accord with his or her alignment | 
from day to day. Use these descriptions as guidelines, not as | 
scripts. 

The first six alignments, lawful good through chaotic neutral, | 


Lare the standard alignments for player characters. The three evil, 


alignments are for monsters and villains. 4 
Lawful Good, “Crusader”: A lawful good character acts as a | 


| good person is expected or required to act. She combines a com- 


mitment to oppose evil with the discipline to fight relentlessly. 


\She tells the truth, keeps her word, helps those in need, and 


speaks out against injustice. A lawful good character hates to see 


the guilty go unpunished. Alhandra, a paladin who fights evil 
without mercy and protects the innocent without hesitation, is 
lawful good. 

Lawful good is the best alignment you can be because it com- 
bines honor and compassion. 

Neutral Good, “Benefactor”: A neutral good character does 
the best that a good person can do. He is devoted to helping 
others. He works with kings and 
magistrates but does not feel 
beholden to them. Jozan, a cleric 
who helps others according to 
their needs, is neutral good. 

Neutral good is the best align- 
ment you can be because it 
means doing what is good 
without bias for or against 
order. 

Chaotic Good, “Rebel”: A 
chaotic good character 
acts as his conscience 
directs him with little 
regard for what others 
expect of him. He makes 
his own way, but he’s kind 
and benevolent. He 
believes in goodness and 
right but has little use for 
laws and regulations. He ® 
hates it when people try to " 
intimidate others and tell them 
what to do. He follows his own 
moral compass, which, although 
good, may not agree with that of 
society. Soveliss, a ranger who way- 
lays the evil baron's tax collectors, is 
chaotic good. 

Chaotic good is the best alignment you 
can be because it combines a good heart with a 
free spirit. 

Lawful Neutral, “Judge”: A lawful neutral 
character acts as law, tradition, or a personal 
code directs her. Order and organization are 
paramount to her. She may believe in per- 
sonal order and live by a code or standard, 
or she may believe in order for all and 
favor a strong, organized government. 
Ember, a monk who follows her disci- 
pline without being swayed either by 
the demands of those in need or by the 
temptations of evil, is lawful neutral. 

Lawful neutral is the best alignment 
you can be because it means you are 
reliable and honorable without being i 
a zealot. 

Neutral, “Undecided”: A neutral character does what 
seems to be a good idea. She doesn't feel strongly one way or the 
other when it comes to good vs. evil or law vs. chaos. Most neutral 
characters exhibit a lack of conviction or bias rather than a com- 
mitment to neutrality. Such a character thinks of good as better 
than evil—after all, she would rather have good neighbors and 
rulers than evil ones. Still, she’s not personally committed to 
upholding good in any abstract or universal way. Mialee, a wizard 
who devotes herself to her art and is bored by the semantics of 
moral debate, is neutral. 

Some neutral characters, on the other hand, commit them- 
selves philosophically to neutrality. They see good, evil, law, and 
chaos as prejudices and dangerous extremes. They advocate the 


middle way of neutrality as the best, most balanced road in the 
long run. 

Neutral is the best alignment you can be because it means you 
act naturally, without prejudice or compulsion. 

Chaotic Neutral, “Free Spirit”: A chaotic neutral character 
follows his whims. He is an individualist first and last. He values 
his own liberty but doesn't strive to protect others’ freedom. He 
avoids authority, resents restrictions, and challenges traditions. A 
chaotic neutral character does not intentionally disrupt organiza- 
tions as part of a campaign of anarchy. To do so, he would have to 
be motivated either by good 

(and a desire to liberate 

others) or evil (and a desire 

Wee to make those different 
vet 


Devis 


from himself suffer). A 

g chaotic neutral character 
=, may be unpredictable, 
but his behavior is 
not totally random. 
He is not as likely to 
jump offa bridge as to 
cross_it. Gimble, a 
bard who wanders the 
land living by his 
wits, is chaotic neutral. 
Chaotic neutral is the 
best alignment you can be because 
it represents true freedom from 

both society’s restrictions and a 

do-gooder’s zeal. 

Lawful Evil, “Dominator”: A 
lawful evil villain methodically takes 
what he wants within the limits of 

his code of conduct without 
regard for whom it hurts. He cares 

about tradition, loyalty, and order 

but not about freedom, dignity, or 

life. He plays by the rules but with- 

out mercy or compassion. He is com- 

fortable in a hierarchy and would 

like to rule, but is willing to 

serve. He condemns others 

not according to their 

actions but according to 

race, religion, homeland, 

or social rank. He is loath 

to break laws or promises. 

This reluctance comes 

partly from his nature 

and partly because he 

depends on order to pro- 

tect himself from those 

who oppose him on 

moral grounds. Some 

lawful evil villains have particular taboos, such as not killing in 

cold blood (but having underlings do it) or not letting children 

come to harm (if it can be helped). They imagine that these com- 

punctions put them above unprincipled villains. The scheming 

baron who expands his power and exploits his people is lawful 
evil. 

Some lawful evil people and creatures commit themselves to 
evil with a zeal like that of a crusader committed to good. Beyond 
being willing to hurt others for their own ends, they take pleasure 
in spreading evil as an end unto itself. They may also see doing evil 
as part of a duty to an evil deity or master. 

Lawful evil is sometimes called “diabolical,” because devils are 
the epitome of lawful evil. 


pe 
>% 


es 
Ye: 
ey, 4 x 
g aN i TAA 
CRR TRR E - E TR, 
Baran N Pn X a: ia 


N 
S 
S 

D 

x 
= 
= 
3 


Y 
N 
čij 
5 
a 
8 


Lawful evil is the most dangerous alignment because it repre- 
sents methodical, intentional, and frequently successful evil. 

Neutral Evil, “Malefactor”: A neutral evil villain does what- 
ever she can get away with. She is out for herself, pure and simple. 
She sheds no tears for those she kills, whether for profit, sport, or, 


convenience. She has no love of order and holds no illusion that | 


following laws, traditions, or codes would make her any better or | 
‘more noble. On the other hand, she doesn't have the restless, 
[nature or love of conflict that a chaotic evil villain has. The crimi-| 
‚nal who robs and murders to get what she wants is neutral evil. | 
| Some neutral evil villains hold up evil as an ideal, committing | 
‘evil for its own sake. Most often, such villains are devoted to evil 
„deities or secret societies. 

Neutral evil is the most dangerous alignment because it repre- 
sents pure evil without honor and without variation. 

Chaotic Evil, “Destroyer”: A chaotic evil character does what- 
„ever his greed, hatred, and lust for destruction drive him to do. He 
,is hot-tempered, vicious, arbitrarily violent, and unpredictable. If 


he is simply out for whatever he can get, he is ruthless and brutal. | 


[If he is committed to the spread of evil and chaos, he is even} 
worse. Thankfully, his plans are haphazard, and any groups he | 
joins or forms are poorly organized. Typically, chaotic evil people 
can be made to work together only by force, and their leader lasts 
only as long as he can thwart attempts to topple or assassinate him. 
The demented sorcerer pursuing mad schemes of vengeance and 
havoc is chaotic evil. 

Chaotic evil is sometimes called “demonic” because demons are 
the epitome of chaotic evil. 

Chaotic evil is the most dangerous alignment because it repre- 
‘sents the destruction not only of beauty and life but also of the 
‘order on which beauty and life depend. 


+ 
| 
Í 
a 
| 
$ 
| 


$ m 


Se SCION 


The gods are many. A few, such as Pelor (god of the sun), have 
grand temples that sponsor mighty processions through the 
streets on high holy days. Others, such as Erythnul (god of slaugh- 
ter), have temples only in hidden places or evil lands. While the. 
gods most strongly make their presence felt through their clerics, | 
they also have lay followers who more or less attempt to live up to | 
their deities’ standards. The typical person has a deity whom he. 
considers to be his patron. Still, it is only prudent to be respectful 
toward and even pray to other deities when the time is right. 
Before setting out on a journey, a follower of Pelor might leave a 
small sacrifice at a wayside shrine to Fharlanghn (god of roads) to 
improve his chances of having a safe journey. As long as one’s own 
deity is not at odds with the others in such an act of piety, such 
simple practices are common. In times of tribulation, however, 
{some people recite dark prayers to evil deities. Such prayers are 
best muttered under one's breath, lest others overhear. 
| Deities rule the various aspects of human existence: good and 
evil, law and chaos, life and death, knowledge and nature. In addi- 
tion, various nonhuman races have racial deities of their own (see 
Table 6-2: Deities by Race). A character may not be a cleric of a 
racial deity unless he is of the right race, but he may worship such 
a deity and live according to that deity’s guidance. For a deity who 
is not tied to a particular race (such as Pelor), a cleric’s race is not 
an issue. ci 
Deities of certain kinds of monsters are identified in the Mon- 
_ster Manual. Many more deities than those described here or men- 
tioned in the Monster Manual also exist. 
Your character may or may not have a patron deity. If} you want 
Toim or her to have one, consider first the deities most appropriate 
{to the character's race, class, and alignment (see Table 6-2: Deities 
_by Race and Table 6-3: Deities by Class). If a cleric chooses a deity, 
which one he selects influences his capabilities. Players with | 
cleric characters should refer to Deity, Domains, and Domain_ 


TABLE 6-2: DEITIES BY RACE 


DEITIES 


Spells, page 32, before picking a deity, though the information, 
below describing the various gods and goddesses can help them | 
make a decision. | 


+ 


{Race Deities —  — 
| Human By class and alignment 
Dwarf Moradin or by class and alignment 
Elf Corellon Larethian, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment 
¿Gnome Garl Glittergold, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment ji 
| Half-elf Corellon Larethian, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment | 
Half-orc Gruumsh or by class and alignment 
Halfling Yondalla, Ehlonna, or by class and alignment 
TABLE 6—3; DEITIES BY CLASS ees 
Class Deities (Alignment) 
Barbarian Kord (CG), Obad-Hai (N), Erythnul (CE) 
{Bard Pelor (NG), Fharlanghn (N), Olidammara (CN) 
\ Cleric Any 
{Druid Obad-Hai (N) 
Fighter Heironeous (LG), Kord (CG), St. Cuthbert (LN), 
Hextor (LE), Erythnul (CE) 
Illusionist Boccob (N) —_ 
Necromancer Wee Jas (LN), Nerull (NE) 
Monk Heironeous (LG), St. Cuthbert, (LN), Hextor (LE) 
Paladin Heironeous (LG) 
Ranger Ehlonna (NG), Obad-Hai (N) — i 4 
Rogue Olidammara (CN), Nerull (NE), Vecna (NE), i 
Erythnul (CE) | 
Sorcerer Wee Jas (LN), Boccob (N), Vecna (NE) a 
Wizard Wee Jas (LN), Boccob (N), Vecna (NE) 4 


EES, 


Across the world, people and creatures worship a great number of 
varied deities. Those described here are the deities most often wor- 
shiped among the common races, by adventurers, and by villains. 

Each entry includes the deity’s name, role, alignment, titles he or 
she is known by, and a general description. These deities’ holy (or 
unholy) symbols are shown accompanying their descriptions. 
(See Table 3-7: Deities, page 32, for a summary of the most 
common deities, their alignments, the domains they are associ- 
ated with, and their typical worshipers.) _ 


Boccob_ 


The god of magic, Boccob, is neutral. His titles 
include the Uncaring, Lord of All Magics, 
and Archmage of the Deities. Boccob 

is a distant deity who promotes no s44 
special agenda in the world of 
mortals. As a god of magic and 
knowledge, he is worshiped by wiz- 
ards, sorcerers, and sages. The 
domains he is associated with are 

Knowledge, Magic, and Trickery. The ¥ 
quarterstaff is his favored weapon. 


Corellon Larethian 


the Elves, the Protector, Protector and Pre- , 
server of Life, and Ruler of All Elves. ff 
Corellon Larethian is the creator and pro- 
tector of the elf race. He governs those 6 
things held in highest esteem among 
elves, such as magic, music, arts, crafts, W 
| poetry, and warfare. Elves, half-elves, and ` 
bards worship him. The domains he is associated “Sites 


with are Chaos, Good, Protection, and War. His favored weapon is 
the longsword. Gruumsh is his nemesis, and it is because of Corel- 
lon’s battle prowess that Gruumsh is called “One-Eye.” 


Ehlonna 
Ehlonna, the goddess of the woodlands, is neutral good. Her 
most commonly encountered title is 
Ehlonna of the Forests. Ehlonna watches 
over all good people who live in 
the forest, love the woodlands, 
or make their livelihood there. 
She is pictured sometimes as an elf 
and sometimes as a human. She is 
especially close to elves, gnomes, 
half-elves, and halflings. She is also 
worshiped by rangers and some 
druids. The domains she is associated 
with are Animal, Good, Plant, and Sun. 


Erythnul 
The god of slaughter, Erythnul, is 
chaotic evil. His title is the Many. Erythnul 
delights in panic and slaughter. In civ- 
ilized lands, his followers (includ- 
ing evil fighters, barbarians, and 
rogues) form small, criminal 
cults. In savage lands, evil bar- 
barians, gnolls, bugbears, ogres, 
and trolls commonly worship 
him. The domains he is associ- 
ated with are Chaos, Evil, Trickery, 
and War. His favored weapon isa `$ 
morningstar with a blunt stone head. 


Fharlanghn 
Fharlanghn, the god of roads, is neutral. His 
title is Dweller on the Horizon. Fhar- 
langhn’s wayside shrines are 
common on well-used roads, for he 
is the deity of travel, roads, dis- 
tance, and horizons. Bards, other 
wandering adventurers, and 
merchants favor Fharlanghn. 
The domains he is associated 
with are Luck, Protection, and Ñ 
Travel. The quarterstaff is his 
favored weapon. 


Garl Glittergold 

The god of the gnomes, Garl Glittergold, is neutral good. He is 
known as the Joker, the Watchful Protector, the Priceless Gem, 
and the Sparkling Wit. Garl Glittergold discovered the gnomes 
and led them into the world. Since then, he has been their protec- 
tor. He governs humor, wit, gemcutting, and jewelrymaking. The 
domains he is associated with are 

Good, Protection, and Trickery. 
Garl’s favored weapon is the 
battleaxe. He is renowned for 
the jokes and pranks he 
pulls on other deities, 
though not all his victims 
laugh off his jests. Garl once 
collapsed the cavern of Kurtul- 
mak, the god of the kobolds. 
Since then, the two deities have been 
sworn enemies. 


Gruumsh 
Gruumsh, chief god of the orcs, is chaotic 
evil. His titles are One-Eye and He- 
Who-Never-Sleeps. Gruumsh 
calls on his followers to be 
strong, to cull the weak from 
their numbers, and to take all 
the territory that Gruumsh 
thinks is rightfully theirs 
(which is almost everything). \ 
The domains he is associated 
with are Chaos, Evil, Strength, and 
War. Gruumsh’s favored weapon is the 
spear. He harbors a special hatred for Corel- 
lon Larethian, Moradin, and their followers. In ages past, Corellon 
Larethian put out Gruumsh’s left eye in a fight. 


Heironeous 
The god of valor, Heironeous, is lawful good. His 
title is the Invincible. Heironeous promotes justice, f 
valor, chivalry, and honor. The domains he is associ- L 
ated with are Good, Law, and War. His favored 
weapon is the longsword, and he is worshiped by 
paladins, good fighters, and good monks. His archen- 
emy is Hextor, his half-brother. 


Hextor 
The god of tyranny, Hextor, is lawful evil. His titles are 
Champion of Evil, Herald of Hell, and Scourge of MAA E 
Battle. Hextor is the six-armed god of war, conflict, * \\ N 
and destruction. Hextor’s worshipers include evil \ 
fighters and monks. The domains he is associated with $ 
are Destruction, Evil, Law, and War. His favored 
weapon is the flail. He sends his followers to commit 
evil, and their special purpose is to overthrow the fol- 
lowers of his half-brother Heironeous wherever they 
are found. 


poy S 4q "snur 


Kord 
Kord, the god of strength, is chaotic 
good. He is known as the Brawler. 
Kord is the patron of athletes, 
especially wrestlers. His wor- _ §8 
shipers include good fighters, 
barbarians, and rogues. The § 
domains he is associated with are \ 
Chaos, Good, Luck, and Strength. ‘ 
Kord’s favored weapon is the great- 
sword. 


Moradin 
The god of the dwarves, Moradin, is lawful 
good. His titles include the Soul Forger, 
Dwarffather, the All-Father, and the 
Creator. Moradin forged the first 
dwarves out of metal and gems SL WA 
and breathed life into them. He ie Ni 
governs the arts and sciences of the 
dwarves: smithing, metalworking, engi- 
neering, and war. The domains he is asso- mi 
ciated with are Earth, Good, Law, and MUUN 
Protection. His favored weapon is the _Ẹ 
warhammer. 


Y 
N 
ij 
5 
a 
8 


Nerull 
The god of death, Nerull, is neutral evil. 
He is known as the Reaper, the Foe 
of All Good, Hater of Life, Bringer of 
Darkness, King of All Gloom, and 
Reaper of Flesh. Nerull is the 
patron of those who seek the 
greatest evil for their own 
enjoyment or gain. The do- 
mains he is associated with are__* 
Death, Evil, and Trickery. His wor- 
shipers, who include evil necro- 
mancers and rogues, depict him as an 
almost skeletal cloaked figure who bears 
a scythe, his favored weapon. 


a “et 


Sa 


Obad-Hai 

Obad-Hai, the god of nature, is neutral. 
He is known as the Shalm. Obad-Hai 
rules nature and the wilderness, m 
and he is a friend to all who live CN 7 
in harmony with the natu- , 
ral world. Barbarians, ~¢ 
rangers, and druids some- , 
times worship him. The a 
domains he is associated “= 
with are Air, Animal, Earth, 
Fire, Plant, and Water. Because 
Obad-Hai strictly adheres to neu- 
trality, he is a rival of Ehlonna. 
Obad-Hai plays a shalm (a 
double-reed woodwind musical 
instrument, also spelled “shawm”) and 
takes his title from this instrument. His 
favored weapon is the quarterstaff. 


Olidammara 
chaotic neutral. His title is the 


Laughing Rogue. Olidammara 
delights in wine, women, and Á 


song. He is a vagabond, a prank- T DA N 


ster, and a master of disguise. His 
temples are few, but many people are 
willing to raise a glass in his honor. 
Rogues and bards are frequently among 
his worshipers. The domains he is associ- 
ated with are Chaos, Luck, and Trickery. The 
rapier is his favored weapon. 


Pelor 

Pelor, god of the sun, is neutral good. 
His title is the Shining One. Pelor 
is the creator of many good 
things, a supporter of those in 
need, and an adversary of all 
that is evil. He is the most 
commonly worshiped deity 
among ordinary humans, and 
his priests are well received ‘WY 
wherever they go. Rangers and 
bards are found among his worshipers. 
The domains he is associated with are 
Good, Healing, Strength, and Sun. The mace 
is his favored weapon. 


Mi 


St. Cuthbert 
The god of retribution, St. Cuthbert, is 
lawful neutral. He is known as St. 
Cuthbert of the Cudgel. St. Cuth- SZ 
bert exacts revenge and just K 
punishment on those who Vd é 
transgress the law. Because 
evil creatures more commonly 
and flagrantly violate laws 
than good creatures do, St. 
Cuthbert favors good over evil, 
though he is not good himself. 
(His clerics cannot be evil.) The 
domains he is associated with are Destruc- 
tion, Law, Protection, and Strength. His favored 
weapon is the mace. 


Vecna 
Vecna, the god of secrets, is neutral evil. 
He is known as the Maimed Lord, the 
Whispered One, and the Master of 
All That Is Secret and Hidden. Vecna § 
rules that which is not meant to be 
known and that which people wish to 
keep secret. The domains he is associ- A 
ated with are Evil, Knowledge, and 
Magic. He usually appears as a lich who is 
missing his left hand and left eye. He lost his 
hand and eye in a fight with his traitorous 
lieutenant, Kas. Vecna’s favored weapon is the 
dagger. 


Wee Jas 


Wee Jas, the goddess of death and magic, is 
lawful neutral. Her titles are Witch 
Goddess, Ruby Sorceress, Stern 
Lady, and Death’s Guardian. 
Wee Jas is a demanding god- 
dess who expects obedience 
from her followers. Her tem- 
ples are few and far between, 
but she counts many powerful 
sorcerers and wizards (espe- 
cially necromancers) among her 
worshipers. The domains she is 
associated with are Death, Law, and 
Magic. Her favored weapon is the dagger. 


Yondalla 


The goddess of the halflings, Yondalla, is 
lawful good. Her titles include the Protector 
and Provider, the Nurturing Matri- 
arch, and the Blessed One. Yondalla is 
the creator and protector of the half- 
ling race. She espouses harmony 
among halflings and stalwart defense 
against their enemies. Her followers 
hope to lead safe, prosperous lives by fol- 
lowing her guidance. The domains she is 
associated with are Good, Law, and Protec- 
tion. The short sword is her favored weapon. 


NAME | 


This section offers advice as you determine your character's name, 
gender, age, height, and weight. Start with some idea of your char- 
acter’s background and personality, and use that idea to help you, 
add the details that bring him or her to life. 


+ 


+ 


UInvent or choose a name that fits your character's race and class... 
¿Chapter 2: Races contains some examples of elf, dwarf, halfling, | 
| gnome, and orc names (and thus half-elf and half-orc names, too). | 
LA name is a great way for you to start thinking about your charac- 
„ters background. For instance, a dwarf’s name might be the name 


of a great dwarf hero, and your character may be striving to live up 
to his name. Alternatively, the name could be that of an infamous 
coward, and the character could be bent on proving that he is not 


like his namesake. — 


G 


ENDER ŽŻŽ + 


Your character can n be either male or female. | 


AGE 


In the D&D game, every player character starts as an adult. You 
can choose or randomly generate your character’s age. If you 
choose it, it must be at least the minimum age for the character's 
race and class (see Table 6—4: Random Starting Ages). Your char- 


\acter’s minimum starting age is the adulthood age of his or her 
irace plus the number of dice indicated in the entry correspon- 
| ding to the character’s race and class on Table 6-4: Random Start- 
Ling Ages. For example, an elf ranger must be at least 116 years 


cold (adulthood age 110 plus 6, because the entry for an elf 
iranger is +6d6). 
Alternatively, refer to Table 6—4: Random Starting Ages and roll 


\dice to determine how old your character is. An elf ranger’s ran- 


TABLE 6—4: RANDOM STARTING AGES. 


domly generated starting age, for example, is 110+6d6 years. 


Bard 


Cleric | 
Barbarian Fighter Druid | 
Rogue Paladin Monk. 
Race Adulthood Sorcerer Ranger Wizard 
Human 15 years +1d4 +1d6 +2d6 
Dwarf 40 years +3d6 +5d6 +7d6 
Elf 110 years +4d6 +6d6 +10d6 
Gnome 40 years +4d6 +6d6 +9d6 
Half-elf 20 years +1d6 +2d6 +3d6 
Half-orc 14 years +1d4 +1d6 +2d6 
„Halfling 20 years +2d4 +3d6 +4d6 


+ 


With age, a character's physical ability scores decrease and his 


Lor her mental ability scores increase (see Table 6-5: Aging Effects). 


The effects of each aging step are cumulative. However, none of a 
character's ability scores can be reduced below 1 in this way. 

For example, when a human reaches 35 years of age, his 
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores each drop 1 point, 
while his Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores each 
increase by 1 point. When he becomes 53 years old, his physical 
ability scores all drop an additional 2 points, while his mental abil- 
ity scores increase by 1 again. So far he has lost a total of 3 points 


_from his Strength, Constitution, and Dexterity scores and gained a 
_total of 2 points to his Wisdom, Intelligence, and Charisma scores 
because of the effects of aging. 


_— = 


+ 


„tions, or violence before getting to venerable age. _ 


TABLE 6—5: AGING EFFECTS 


When a character reaches venerable age, the DM secretly rolls 
his or her maximum age, which is the number from the Venerable | 
column on Table 6-5: Aging Effects plus the result of the dice roll | 
indicated on the Maximum Age column on that table, and records | 


ithe result, which the player does not know. A character who 
reaches his or her maximum age dies of old age at some time 
\ during the following year, as determined by the DM. 


The maximum ages on Table 6—5 are for player characters. Most 
people in the world at large die from pestilence, accidents, infec- , 


t 


4 


Maximum 
Race Middle Age’ Old? Venerable? Age Ž } 
Human 35 years 53 years 70 years +2d20 years | 
Dwarf 125 years 188 years 250 years +2d% years 
[EIF 175 years 263 years 350 years +4d% years 
¿Gnome 100 years 150 years 200 years +3d% years | 
| Half-elf 62 years 93 years 125 years +3d20 years , 
` Half-orc 30 years 45 years 60 years +2d10 years 
Halfling 50 years 75 years 100 years +5d20 years ; 


1 At middle age, —1 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha. 
2 At old age, —2 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha. 
3 At venerable age, —3 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha. 


HEIGHT AND WEIGHT 


Choose your character’s height and weight from the ranges men-| 


tioned in the appropriate race description (see Chapter 2) or from | 


the ranges found on Table 6-6: Random Height and Weight. | 
Think about what your character's abilities might say about his or | 
her height and weight. A weak but agile character may be thin. A 
strong and tough character may be tall or just heavy. 

Alternatively, roll randomly for your character's height aad] 
weight on Table 6-6: Random Height and Weight. The dice roll | 
given in the Height Modifier column determines the character's 
extra height beyond the base height. That same number multi- 
plied by the dice roll or quantity given in the Weight Modifier 
column determines the character's extra weight beyond the base 
weight. For example, Tordek (a male dwarf) has a height of 3 feet 9 
inches plus 2d4 inches. Monte rolls 2d4 and gets a result of 6, so 
Tordek stands 4 feet 3 inches tall. Then Monte uses that same roll, 
6, and multiplies it by 2d6 pounds. His 2dé roll is 9, so Tordek 
weighs an extra 54 pounds (6 x 9) on top of his base 130 pounds, 
for a total of 184 pounds. 


TABLE 6—6: RANDOM HEIGHT AND WEIGHT 


Base Height Base Weight 
Race Height Modifier Weight Modifier 
Human, male 4° 10° +2d10 120 |b. x (2d4) Ib. 
Human, female 4’ 5” +2d10 85 |b. x (2d4) Ib 
Dwarf, male 3° OF +2d4 130 |b. x (2d6) Ib 
Dwarf, female 3< 7 +2d4 100 Ib. x (2d6) Ib 
Elf, male a5 +2d6 85 lb. x (1d6) Ib 
Elf, female 4 5” +2d6 80 lb. x (1d6) Ib 
Gnome, male 87 OF +2d4 40 Ib. sz b 
Gnome, female 2'10” +2d4 35 |b. x lb. 
Half-elf, male KT +2d8 100 Ib. x (2d4) Ib. | 
Half-elf, female 4'5 +2d8 80 Ib. x (2d4) Ib 
Half-orc, male 4°10” +2d12 150 |b. x (2d6) Ib. _ 
Half-orc, female 4’ 5” +2d12 110 lb. x _(2d6) Ib. | 
Halfling, male 2085 +2d4 30 Ib. x 1 lb. 4 
Halfling, female 2’ 6 +2d4 25 |b. x Lb. 4 


3 
S 
È 
Š 
z 
5 
© 
$ 
ms 
8 


LOOKS, PERSONALITY, 


You can detail your character to any degree you like. As you play 
the character, you will probably come up with more details you 


_will want to add. 4 


LOOKS | 

Decide what your character looks like using the descriptions of the | 

(various races in Chapter 2 as a starting point. Characters with high | 
{Charisma scores tend to be better looking than those with low 
Charisma scores, though a character with high Charisma could have 
strange looks that give him or her a sort of exotic beauty. 
Your character can be right- or left-handed. 
You can use your character's looks to tell something about 
_his or her personality and background. For example: 
¿° Krusk the half-orc is missing part of an ear and bears 
many scars that are the result of the violent life he 
| led among the orcs that raised him. He keeps x 
claws and fangs from beasts he has killed ona f 
necklace. 

e Alhandra the paladin has the hand of 
Heironeous branded on the inside of her 
forearm to show her devotion to him. 
Hennet the sorcerer wears an eclectic, 
__makeshift outfit that is different from day to 
| day, suggesting his chaotic nature. 


PERSONALITY = 


Decide how your character acts, what she 

| likes, what she wants out of life, what scares 

cher, and what makes her angry. Race and 

‘alignment are good places to start when 
‘thinking about your character’s personality, 
but they are bad places to stop. Make your 
lawful good dwarf (or whatever) different 
from every other lawful good dwarf. 

A handy trick for making an interesting 
personality for your character is including § 
some sort of conflict_in her nature. For 
example, Tordek is lawful, but he’s a little greedy, too. 
He may be tempted to steal occasionally if he can jus- 
tify it to himself. = 

Your character's personality can ı change over time. Just 
because you decide some basic facts about your character's 
personality upon creation doesn’t mean you need to 

„abide by those facts as if they were holy writ. Let your 
{character grow and evolve the way real people do. 


| 
BACKGROUND 
Decide what your character's life has been like 
up until now. Here are a few questions to get you 
thinking. 
* How did he decide to be an adventurer? 
© How did he acquire his class? A fighter, for example, might 
have been in the militia, he may come from a family of soldiers, 
he may have trained in a martial school, or he may be a self- 
taught warrior. 
© How did he get his starting equipment? Did he assemble it 
___ piece by piece over time? Was it a parting gift from a parent or 
I mentor? Do any of his personal items have special significance 
e 


K 


tohim? 
le What's the worst thing that’s ever happened to him? 
(e° What’s the best thing that’s ever happened to him? 


* Does he stay in contact with his family? What do his relatives | 
think of him? 


+ 
| 


+ 


CUSTOMIZING 
i-——YOUR CHARACTER] 


|The rules for creating your character provide a common ground 
for players, but you can tweak the rules to make your character 
unique. Any substantive changes, however, must be approved by 
the DM. cs 
Race: The rules for a character of a given race apply to most but | 
_not all people of that race. For example, you could create a dwarf; 
| descended from outcasts who have been exiled from dwarven soci- | 
ety. Your dwarf would have grown up among humans. He would 
J) have the inborn qualities of a 
dwarf (better Constitution, , 
worse Charisma, darkvision, and | 
resistance to poison and spells) 
but not the cultural features 
ll (stonecunning, attack bonuses. 
my against goblinoids and orcs, 
7 dodge bonus against giants, bo- 
I nuses on Appraise and Craft checks , 
If that relate to stone or metal, fighter as | 
J favored class, and perhaps even. 
J knowledge of the Dwarven language). 
You could probably talk your DM into 
giving your character some special 
bonuses to balance the loss of the cul: 
f tural features. 4 
Class: Some classes already give you | 
plenty of room to customize your charac- | 
ter. With your DM’s approval, however, , 
you could change some of your character's, 
class features. For instance, if you want a | 
fighter who used to work for the thieves’ 
guild as an enforcer but who is now trying to 
become a legitimate bodyguard, he could be 
proficient only with the weapons and armor 
available to rogues, have 4 skill points per level 
instead of 2, and access to Bluff and Sense 
Motive as class skills. Otherwise, he would be a 
regular fighter. 
Skills and Feats: You can call your skills, 
feats, and class features whatever your character 


+ 


about “footpaddin rather than about “moving 
silently,” so her player writes “Footpaddin’” down 
on her character sheet to stand for the Move 
Silently skill. Ember, the monk, calls her Move 
Silently skill “Rice Paper Walk.” 

You might also think of other skills that your 
character ought to have. Your DM has guidelines (in 
the Dungeon Master’s Guide) for creating new skills. 

Equipment: Your equipment can look the way you 

want it to look to match your character's style. One 
wizard’s quarterstaff might be a plain, straight length of wood, 
while another wizard’s is gnarled, twisted, and engraved with 
mystic runes. —— 
Your character might have some items that aren't on the equip-| 
ment lists (see Chapter 7). Agree with your DM on what a new | 
item would do and how much it would cost, and then your char-| 
Lacter can have it. 
Sometimes you see a weapon in a movie or read about one in a ] 
book, and you want your character to use that weapon. If it’s not | 
Lon the weapon list in Chapter 7, try to find a weapon on the list 
[that seems equivalent. A katana (samurai sword), for example, is 
{not on the weapon list, but you could equip your character with a 
katana and just treat it like a masterwork bastard sword. 


1» 


Climbing® 
Gis 2 


n the marketplace of a big city, armorsmiths and weapon- 
smiths offer a.wide variety of arms and armor for those with 
the gold to buy them. Here you can find practical, sturdy 
< swords and perhaps a few elven blades of exceptional quality. 
Alchemists sell acid, alchemist’s fire, and smokesticks for 
those who want something flashier than a trusty blade. Wizards 
(or, more likely, their brokers) even sell-magic scrolls, wands, 
weapons, and other items. 

This chapter covers the mundane and exotic merchandise that 
characters may want to purchase and how to go about doing so. 
(Magic items are covered in the Dungeon Master’s Guide!) 


Z EQUIPPING A CHARACTER 


A beginning character generally has enough wealth to start out 
with the basics: some weapons, some armor suitable to his or her 
class Gf- any), and some miscellaneous gear. As the character 
} yy oe undertakes adventures and amasses loot, he or she can afford 

bigger and better gear. At first, however, the options are limited 
by the character’s budget. 


~ STARTING PACKAGES 


LTA Each class has a starting package that provides default equipment 
4 eet cal (aswell as default skills, a default feat, and so.forth). If you equip 

Veal your character with the default equipment, you can customize 
ay these packages a little by swapping in some equipment of your 
choice for theindicated equipment. Trades like this are fine as 
long as the value of the equipment you swap in'isnt higher than 
TK AN the value of the equipment given in the package. 


EQUIPMENT. A LA CARTE 


TABLE 7—1: RANDOM STARTING GOLD 


pyme p hq “sup 


If you don't want to take the standard package for your char- 
acter’s class, you can instead purchase weapons, armor, and 
miscellaneous equipment item by item. You begin with a 
random number of gold pieces that is determined by your 
character's class, and then you decide how to spend it (see 
Table 7-1: Random Starting Gold). Alternatively, your 
DM can assign average starting gold for each character, as 
indicated on Table 7-1. 


Class Amount (average) Class Amount (average) 
Barbarian 4d4 x 10. (100 gp) Paladin 6d4 x10 (150 gp) 


Bard 4d4 x10 (100 gp) Ranger 6d4 x 10 (150 gp) 

Cleric 5d4 x 10 (125 gp) Rogue 5d4 x10 (125 gp) 

Druid 2d4 x 10 (50 gp) Sorcerer 3d4 x 10 (75 gp) 
( 


Fighter  6d4x10(150 gp) Wizard 3d4x 10 
Monk 5d4 (12 gp, 5 sp) 


75 gp) 


Note that buying beginning equipment this way is 
an abstraction. Your character doesn't walk into a store 
with handfuls of gold and buy every item one by one. 
Rather, these items may have come the character's way 
as gifts from family, equipment from patrons, gear 
granted during military service, swag gained through 
duplicity, and so on. 

Assume your character owns at least one outfit of 
normal clothes. Pick any one of the following clothing out- 
fits for free: artisan’s outfit,.entertainer’s outfit, explorer’s 
outfit, monk's outfit, peasant’s outfit, scholar’s outfit, 
or traveler's outfit. (See Clothing, page 131.) 


AVAILABILITY 


All the items described in this chapter are assumed to be available 
to PCs with the wherewithal to buy them. Many of these items are 
very expensive and rare. You won't find them on the rack at a store 
in a town. But a character with the coin to buy an expensive item | 
can usually connect with a seller and get a desired item. 

If you want to buy something not described in this chapter, the | 
(general rule is that a character can buy anything that costs as, 
| much as 3,000 gp. Buying a more expensive item, such as a +2 long- | 
‚sword, means going to a big city where rare items are for sale, | 
making a special deal with someone who makes or can provide the | 
litem, or paying a premium price to a merchant who makes a spe- 
cial effort to get what the character wants. 

Depending on where in the fantasy world the character is, it 
might be possible to buy more expensive items without a problem, 
or it might be more difficult to do so. In a small town, for example, 

it’s practically impossible to find someone who can make a suit of 
full plate armor. The DM determines what is and is not available t 


depending on how he or she runs the world and where the char-_ 


vacters are in it. 


+ 


Adventurers are in the small group of people who regularly buy 
things with coins. Members of the peasantry trade mostly in 
goods, bartering for what they need and paying taxes in grain and 
.cheese. Members of the nobility trade mostly in legal rights, such 
[as the rights to a mine, a port, or farmland, or they trade in gold 
lars, measuring gold by the pound rather than by the coin. 


COINS 


|The most common coin that adventurers use is the gold piece (gp). 
With 1 gold piece, a character can buy a belt pouch, 50 feet of 
[hempen rope, or a goat. A skilled (but not exceptional) artisan can 
earn 1 gold piece a day. The gold piece is the standard unit of meas- 
ure for wealth. When merchants discuss deals that involve goods 
or services worth hundreds or thousands of gold pieces, the trans- 
actions don't usually involve the exchange of that many individual. 
coins. Rather, the gold piece is a standard measure of value, and the | 
actual exchange is in gold bars, letters of credit, or valuable goods. | 

The most prevalent coin among commoners is the silver piece | 
(sp). A gold piece is worth 10 silver pieces. A silver piece buys a 
laborer’s work for a day, a common lamp, or a poor meal of bread, 
baked turnips, onions, and water. 

Each silver piece is worth 10 copper pieces (cp). A single copper 
piece buys a candle, a torch, or a piece of chalk. Copper pieces are 
common among laborers and beggars. 

In addition to copper, silver, and gold coins, which people use 

| daily, merchants also recognize platinum pieces (pp), which are each 


[turers occasionally find them as part of ancient treasure hoards. 

The standard coin weighs about a third of an ounce (fifty to the 
pound). It is the exact size of the coin pictured in the illustration 
on page 168. 


TABLE 7—2: COINS 


Exchange Value 


CP SPs GP. PP 
Copper piece (cp) = 1 1/10 1/100 1/1,000 
¿Silver piece (sp) = 10 1 1/10 1/100 
Gold piece (gp) = 100 10 1 1/10 
100 10 1 


Platinum piece (pp) = 1,000. 
WEALTH OTHER THAN COINS 


Most wealth is not in coins. It is livestock, grain, land, rights to col- 
lect taxes, or rights to resources (such as a mine or a forest). Gems | 
and jewelry can also serve as portable wealth. 


—}- 


Trade 


Guilds, nobles, and royalty regulate trade. Chartered companies | 
are granted rights to dam rivers in order to provide power for | 
mills, to conduct trade along certain routes, to send merchant. 


{ships to various ports, or to buy or sell specific goods. Guilds set 
prices for the goods or services that they control, and determine 
who may or may not offer those goods and services. Merchants 


Trade Goods. 


TABLE 7—3: TRADE GOODS 


SELLING LOOT 


commonly exchange trade goods without using currency. As a 
means of comparison, some trade goods are detailed on Table 7-3: 


Cost Item — 
1 cp One pound of wheat ji 
2 cp ____ One pound of flour, or one chicken — —Ž Ž Ž — — | 
1 sp One pound of iron 

_5 sp One pound of tobacco or copper = 
1 gp One pound of cinnamon, or one goat 
2 gp One pound of ginger or pepper, or one sheep i 
3 gp One pig 
4 gp One square yard of linen 
5 gp One pound of salt or silver 

10 gp One square yard of silk, or one cow 

15 gp One pound of saffron or cloves, or one ox 

50 gp One pound of gold Se 

500 gp One pound of platinum 


In general, a character can sell something for half its listed am } 
example, can sell their old equipment for half price.. 

Trade goods are the exception to the half-price rule. A adel 
good, in this sense, is a valuable good that can be easily exchanged | 
almost as if it were cash itself. Wheat, flour, cloth, gems, jewelry, 
art objects, and valuable metals are trade goods, and merchants 
often trade in them directly without using currency (see Table 
7-3: Trade Goods). Obviously, merchants can sell these goods for 
slightly more than they pay for them, but the difference is small 
enough that you don't have to worry about it. 


A character's weapons help determine how capable he or she is in 
a variety of combat situations. See Table 7-5: Weapons for the 
characteristics of various weapons. 


WEAPON CATEGORIES 


Weapons are grouped into several interlocking sets of categories. 
These categories pertain to what training is needed to become pro- 
ficient in a weapon's use (simple, martial, or exotic), the weapon's 
usefulness either in close combat (melee) or at a distance (ranged, 
which includes both thrown and projectile weapons), its relative 
encumbrance (light, one-handed, or two-handed), and its size 
(Small, Medium, or Large). 

Simple, Martial, and Exotic Weapons: Anybody but a druid, 
monk, rogue, or wizard is proficient with all simple weapons. Bar- 
barians, fighters, paladins, and rangers are proficient with all | 
simple and all martial weapons. Characters of other classes are pro- | 
ficient with an assortment of mainly simple weapons and possibly | 
also some martial or even exotic weapons. A character who uses a | 


_weapon with which he or she is not proficient takes a —4 penalty 


on attack rolls. 
Melee and Ranged Weapons: Melee weapons are used forl 


making melee attacks, though some of them can be thrown as 
well. Ranged weapons are thrown weapons or projectile weapons 
| that are not effective in melee. 


Reach Weapons: Glaives, guisarmes, lances, longspears, ranseurs, 


spiked chains, and whips are reach weapons. A reach weapon is a 
melee weapon that allows its wielder to strike at targets that aren't 
adjacent to him or her. Most reach weapons described in this 
chapter double the wielder’s natural reach, meaning that a typical 
Small or Medium wielder of such a weapon can attack a creature | 
10 feet away, but not a creature in an adjacent square. A typical) 
_Large character wielding a reach weapon of the appropriate size | 
lcan attack a creature 15 or 20 feet away, but not adjacent creatures | 
Lor creatures up to 10 feet away. } 

Double Weapons: Dire flails, dwarven urgroshes, gnome hooked | 
hammers, orc double axes, quarterstaffs, and two-bladed swords | 
Lare double weapons. A character can fight with both ends of a 

double weapon as if fighting with two weapons, but he or she 
incurs all the normal attack penalties associated with two-weapon 
combat, just as though the character were wielding a one-handed 
weapon and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). 
The character can also choose to use a double weapon two- 
handed, attacking with only one end of it; most wizards who wield | 
_guarterstaffs use them in this way. A creature wielding a double | 
_weapon in one hand (such as a human wielding a Small two-, 
bladed sword) can't use it as a double weapon—only one end of, 
the weapon can be used in any given round. 
Thrown Weapons: Daggers, clubs, shortspears, spears, darts, 
javelins, throwing axes, light hammers, tridents, shuriken, and nets 
are thrown weapons. The wielder applies his or her Strength mod- 
ifier to damage dealt by thrown weapons (except for splash weap- 
Lons, such as a vial of acid; see Throw Splash Weapon, page 158). 
|__ It is possible to throw a weapon that isn't designed to be thrown 
| (that is, a melee weapon that doesn't have a numeric entry in the 
[so takes a—4 penalty on the attack al ‘Throwing a light or one- 
handed weapon is a standard action, while throwing a two-handed 
_weapon is a full-round action. Regardless of the type of weapon, 
(such an attack scores a threat (a possible critical hit) only on a nat- 
ural roll of 20 and deals double damage on a critical hit. Such a 
weapon has a range increment of 10 feet. 
Projectile Weapons: Light crossbows, slings, heavy crossbows, 
shortbows, composite shortbows, longbows, composite longbows, . 
hand crossbows, and repeating crossbows are projectile weapons. | 
Most projectile weapons require two hands to use (see specific | 
weapon descriptions later in this chapter). A character gets no, 
Strength bonus on damage rolls with a projectile weapon unless 
it’s a specially built composite shortbow, specially built composite 
longbow, or sling. If the character has a penalty for low Strength, 
apply it to damage rolls when he or she uses a bow or a sling. 
Ammunition: Projectile weapons use ammunition: arrows (for 
bows), bolts (for crossbows), or sling bullets (for slings). When 
„using a bow, a character can draw ammunition as a free action; 
{crossbows and slings require an action for reloading. Generally 
speaking, ammunition that hits its target is destroyed or rendered 
_useless, while normal ammunition that misses has a 50% chance of 
being destroyed or lost. 
Although they are thrown weapons, shuriken are treated as 
ammunition for the purposes of drawing them, crafting master- 
work or otherwise special versions of them (see Masterwork 
Weapons, below), and what happens to them after they are 
thrown. ae a eee 
Light, One-Handed, and Two-Handed Melee Weapons: 
This designation is a measure of how much effort it takes to wield 
_a weapon in combat. It indicates whether a melee weapon, when 
wielded by a character of the weapon's size category, is considered 

a light weapon, a one-handed weapon, or a two-handed weapon. 
| Light: A light weapon is easier to use in one’s off hand thana one- 


[weapon is used in one hand. Add the wielder’s Strength bonus (if 
any) to damage rolls for melee attacks with a light weapon if it’s | 
used in the primary hand, or one-half the wielder’s Strength bonus | 


if it’s used in the off hand. Using two hands to wield a light weapon , 
gives no advantage on damage; the Strength bonus applies as. 
though the weapon were held in the wielder’s primary hand only. | 

An unarmed strike is always considered a light weapon. — 

| One-Handed: A one-handed weapon can be used in either the 

| primary hand or the off hand. Add the wielder’s Strength bonus to 

\damage rolls for melee attacks with a one-handed weapon if it’s 
used in the primary_hand, or 1/2 his or her Strength bonus if it’s 
used in the off hand. Ifa one-handed weapon is wielded with two, 
hands during melee combat, add 1-1/2 times the character's | 
| Strength bonus to damage rolls. 

Two-Handed: Two hands are required to use a two-handed : melee] 
weapon effectively. Apply 1-1/2 times the character’s Strength 
bonus to damage rolls for melee attacks with such a weapon. | 

Weapon Size: Every weapon has a size category, such as Small, 
Medium, or Large. This designation indicates the size of the crea- 

ture for which the weapon was designed. A Small greatsword is a 

igreatsword designed for a Small creature, such as a halfling. A. 

\Medium longsword is a longsword designed for a Medium crea-. 
_ture, such as an elf. A Large shortbow is a shortbow designed for a 
Large creature, such as an ogre. 

A weapons size category isn't the same as its size as an object. AJ 
Medium dagger (one sized for a Medium character), for instance, 
is a Tiny object (see Table 9—10: Size and Armor Class of Objects, 
page 166). Instead, a weapon's size category is keyed to the size of 
the intended wielder. In general, a light weapon (such as a dagger) 
is an object two size categories smaller than the wielder, a one-| 


handed weapon (such as a longsword) is an object one size cate- | 


gory smaller than the wielder, and a two-handed weapon (such as | 
a greatsword) is an object of the same size category as the wielder. 

Inappropriately Sized Weapons: A creature can't make optimum 4 
use of a weapon that isn't properly sized for it. A cumulative —2 | 
penalty applies on attack rolls for each size category of difference | 
between the size of its intended wielder and the size of its actual 
wielder. Thus, a human wielding a Small longsword takes a —2 
penalty on attack rolls (one size category different), and an ogre 
wielding a Small greatsword takes a —4 penalty (two size categories 
different). If the creature isn’t proficient with the weapon (a 
wizard attempting to wield a Small battleaxe, for instance), a —4 
nonproficiency penalty also applies. 

The measure of how much effort it takes to use a weapon 
(whether the weapon is designated as a light, one-handed, or two- 
handed weapon for a particular wielder) is altered by one step for 
each size category of difference between the wielder’s size and the 
size of the creature for which the weapon was designed. For 
instance, a Small greatsword (a two-handed weapon for a Small 
creature) is considered a one-handed weapon for a Medium crea- 
ture, or a light weapon for a Large creature. Conversely, a Large 
dagger (a light weapon for a Large creature) is considered a one- 
handed weapon for a Medium creature, or a two-handed weapon 
for a Small creature. If a weapon's designation would be changed 
to something other than light, one-handed, or two-handed by this 
alteration, the creature can't wield the weapon at all. 

Improvised Weapons: Sometimes objects not crafted to be 
weapons nonetheless see use in combat—people fight with any- 
thing from broken bottles to chair legs to thrown mugs. Because 
such objects are not designed for this use, any creature that uses | 
one in combat is considered to be nonproficient with it and takes | 
a —4 penalty on attack rolls made with that object. To determine | 
the size category and appropriate damage for an improvised | 

_weapon, the DM should compare its relative size and damage | 


potential to the weapon list to find a reasonable match. For) 


instance, a table leg is similar to a club, while a broken bottle is | 
‘similar to a dagger. An improvised weapon scores a threat (a pos- | 
| sible critical hit) on a natural roll of 20 and deals double damage 
lon a critical hit. An improvised thrown weapon has a range incre- 
ment of 10 feet. 


Prs 


PIA 


WEAPON QUALITIES 


The weapon a character uses says something about who he or she 
is. You probably want to equip your character with both a melee 
weapon and a ranged weapon. If you can't afford both your melee 
weapon of choice and your ranged weapon of choice, decide, 
which is more important to the character. 
What kind of weapon you select determines how your charac- } 
iter can choose to wield it (with one hand or two) and how much, 
[damage he or she can deal with it. A two-handed weapon deals| 
¿more damage than a one-handed weapon, but wielding a two-. 
handed weapon prevents the wielder from using a shield, so that's | 
la trade-off. =. 
| The number of weapons 3 your character is proficient with 
depends on his or her class and race. A character can also 
become proficient with additional weapons by selecting the 
right feats. See Exotic Weapon Proficiency (page 94), Martial 
_Weapon Proficiency (page 97), and Simple Weapon Proficiency 
(page 100). i 


A better weapon is usually more expensive than an inferior _ 


Lone, but more expensive doesn't always mean better. For instance, } 
a rapier is more expensive than a longsword. For a dexterous | 
rogue with the Weapon Finesse feat, a rapier is a terrific weapon. 
For a typical fighter, a longsword is better. 

When selecting your character's weapons, keep in mind the 
following factors (given as column headings on Table 7-5). 

Cost: This value is the weapon's cost in gold pieces (gp) or 
silver pieces (sp). The cost includes miscellaneous gear that goes 

[with the weapon, such as a scabbard for a sword or a quiver for 
Larrows. This cost is the same for a Small or Medium version of the 

[weapon, A Large version costs twice the listed price. _ 

| Damage: The Damage columns give the damage dealt by the 

weapon on a successful hit. The column labeled “Dmg (S)” is for 

‚Small weapons, such as those typically wielded by a gnome or 

halfling. The column labeled “Dmg (M)” is for Medium weapons, 

‘such as those typically wielded by a dwarf, elf, half-elf, half-orc, 
or human. If two damage ranges are given, such as “1d6/1d6” for 
the quarterstaff, then the weapon is a double weapon (see. 
Double Weapons, above, and Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160)... 
Use the second damage figure given for the double weapon's | | 
extra attack. | 

Table 7—4: Tiny and Large Weapon Damage gives weapon. 
damage values for weapons of those sizes. For instance, a Tiny 
longsword (such as might be wielded by a halfling or gnome 
fighter under the effect of a reduce person spell) deals 1d4 points of 
damage, while a Large greataxe (wielded by a half-orc barbarian 
under the effect of an enlarge person spell) deals 3d6 points of 
damage. The Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on 

_weapons and combat for creatures smaller than Small and larger 

than Medium. 


o 
TABLE 7—4: TINY AND LARGE WEAPON DAMAGE 


Medium Tiny Large 
Weapon Damage _ Weapon Damage Weapon Damage 

1d2 = 1d3 

1d3 | 1d4 

1d4 1d2 1d6 

1d6 1d3 1d8 

1d8 1d4 2d6 

1d10 1d6 2d8 

| 1d12 1d8 3d6 
L 2d4 1d4 2d6 
| 2d6 1d8 3d6 
| 2d8 1d10 3d8 
| 2d10 2d6 4d8 


Critical: The entry in this column notes how the weapon is | 
used with the rules for critical hits. When your character scores a | 


—+. 


critical hit, roll the damage two, three, or four times, as indicated , 
by its critical multiplier (using all applicable modifiers on each | 
roll), and add all the results together. | 

Exception: Extra damage over and above a weapon's normal dam- | 


Lage, such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of a 
Įflaming sword, is not multiplied when you score a critical hit. 


+ 


x2: The weapon deals double damage on a critical hit. 
x3: The weapon deals triple damage on a critical hit. 
x3/x4: One head of this double weapon deals triple damage on | 


„a critical hit. The other head deals quadruple damage on a critical | 
‘hit. 


x4: The weapon deals quadruple damage on a critical hit, 

19-20/x2: The weapon scores a threat (a possible critical hit) 
on a natural roll of 19 or 20 (instead of just 20) and deals double. 
damage on a critical hit. (The weapon has a threat range of | 
19-20.) 

18—20/X2: The weapon scores a threat on a natural roll of 18, 19, 


Lor 20 (instead of just 20) and deals double damage on a critical hit. , 


+ 


(The weapon has a threat range of 18-20.) | 
Range Increment: Any attack at less than this distance is not 
penalized for range, so an arrow from a shortbow (range incre- 
ment 60 feet) can strike at an enemy 59 feet away or closer with no | 
penalty. However, each full range increment imposes a cumulative 
—2 penalty on the attack roll. A shortbow archer firing at a target 
200 feet away takes a —6 penalty on the attack roll (-2 x 3, because 
200 feet is at least three range increments but not four). A thrown 


irange increments. A projectile errs such as a bow, can shoot] + 


out to ten range increments. 

Weight: This column gives the weight of a Medium version ¢ of| 
the weapon. Halve this number for Small weapons, and double it} 
for Large weapons. 

Type: Weapons are classified according to the type of damage | | 
they deal: bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing. Some monsters may 
be resistant or immune to attacks from certain types of weapons. 
For example, a skeleton takes less damage from slashing weapons 
and piercing weapons. 

Some weapons deal damage of multiple types (for ‘example, the 
morningstar, which deals both bludgeoning and piercing dam- 
age). Ifa weapon is of two types, the damage it deals is not half one 
type and half another; all of it is both types. Therefore, a creature 
would have to be immune to both types of damage to ignore any 
of the damage from such a weapon. 

In other cases, a weapon can deal either of two types of damage 
(such as the dagger, which can deal either piercing or slashing 
damage). In a situation when the damage type is significant, the 
wielder can choose which type of damage to deal with such a 
weapon. 

Special: Some weapons have special features. See the weapon 
descriptions for details. 


WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS 


The weapons found on Table 7-5: Weapons are described below, 
along with any special options the wielder (“you”) has for their use. 
Splash weapons are described under Special Substances and 
Items, page 128. 

Arrows: An arrow used as a melee weapon is treated as a light | 
improvised weapon (—4 penalty on attack rolls) and deals damage , 
as a dagger of its size (critical multiplier x2). Arrows come in a, 
leather quiver that holds 20 arrows. An arrow that hits its target | 


lis destroyed; one that misses has a 50% chance of being destroyed. 


or lost. 
Axe, Throwing: A throwing axe is s lighter than a handaxe a 


‘balanced for throwing. Gnome fighters often use throwing axes 
[for both melee and ranged attacks. 


+. 


Axe, Orc Double: An orc double axe is a double weapon. You 
can fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you 


incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting with 
two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon and a 
light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). As its name 
suggests, it is most often found in the hands of powerful orc fight- 
ers. A creature wielding an orc double axe in one hand can't use it, 
as a double weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in} 
Lany given round. 4 
___Battleaxe: The battleaxe is the most common melee weapon , 
[among dwarves. } 
__Bolas: A set of bolas consists of two or three heavy wooden | 
spheres connected by lengths of cord. Because the bolas can. 
_wrap around an enemy’s leg or other limb, you can use this 
_weapon to make a ranged trip attack against an opponent. You 
can't be tripped during your own trip attempt when using a set 
of bolas. 
Bolts: A crossbow bolt used as a melee weapon is treated as a 
light improvised weapon (—4 penalty on attack rolls) and deals 


damage as a dagger of its size (crit x2). Bolts come in a wooden | 


¿case that holds 10 bolts (or 5, for a repeating crossbow). A bolt) 


that hits its target is destroyed; one that misses has a 50% chance | 
of being destroyed or lost. 

Bullets, Sling: Bullets are lead spheres, much heavier than 
stones of the same size. They come in a leather pouch that holds 
10 bullets. A bullet that hits its target is destroyed; one that misses 
has a 50% chance of being destroyed or lost. 

Chain, Spiked: A spiked chain has reach, so you can strike 
Lopponents 10 feet away with it. In addition, unlike most other 
| weapons with reach, it can be used against an adjacent foe. 
| Because the chain can wrap around an enemy’s leg or other 
limb, you can make trip attacks with it. If you are tripped during 
_your own trip attempt, you can drop the chain to avoid being 
tripped. = 


+ a 


= — 
Dart 


Javelin 


Shortspear í 


When using a spiked chain, you get a +2 bonus on opposed, 
attack rolls made to disarm an opponent (including the roll to, 
avoid being disarmed if such an attempt fails). | 

You can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your} 
Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack 

Jrolls with a spiked chain sized for you, even though it isn't a light 
weapon for you. 

Club: A wooden club is so easy to find and fashion that it has 
no cost. | 

Crossbow, Hand: This exotic weapon is common among, 

[rogues and others who favor stealth over power. You can draw a] 
hand crossbow back by hand. Loading a hand crossbow is a move_ 
action that provokes attacks of opportunity. 

You can shoot, but not load, a hand crossbow with one hand | 
at no penalty. You can shoot a hand crossbow with each hand, | 
but you take a penalty on attack rolls as if attacking with two 
light weapons (see Table 8—10: Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties, 

page 160). 
|} Crossbow, Heavy: You draw a heavy crossbow back by turn-| 


Jing a small winch. Loading a heavy crossbow is a full-round 


action that provokes attacks of opportunity. 

Normally, operating a heavy crossbow requires two hands. | 
However, you can shoot, but not load, a heavy crossbow with one 
hand at a —4 penalty on attack rolls. You can shoot a heavy cross- 
bow with each hand, but you take a penalty on attack rolls as if 
attacking with two one-handed weapons (see Table 8-10: Two-. 

Weapon Fighting Penalties, page 160). This penalty is cumulative | 

with the penalty for one-handed firing. 4 

Crossbow, Light: You draw a light crossbow back by pulling a. 
lever. Loading a light crossbow is a move action that provokes] 
attacks of opportunity. 

Normally, operating a light crossbow requires two hands. How.| 


KL 


Shurikens 


Stangham 


Ranseur 


a ee 


Guisarme 


~ Glaive 


NS EEE 


Longspear 


Lance (Medium) 


Nunchaku 


Lance (Smail) 


N 
= 
oe 

c 
is 
a 
Ss 
ko 
N 
~ 


ever, you can shoot, but not load, a light crossbow with one hand 
at a—2 penalty on attack rolls. You can shoot a light crossbow with 
each hand, but you take a penalty on attack rolls as if attacking 
with two light weapons (see Table 8-10: Two-Weapon Fighting 
Penalties, page 160). This penalty is cumulative with the ries 


for one-handed firing. 


| Crossbow, Repeating: The repeating crossbow (whether heavy or | 
light) holds 5 crossbow bolts. As long as it holds bolts, you can reload | | 


lit by pulling the reloading lever (a free action). Loading a new case of 


+ 


_5 bolts is a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportunity. 
You can fire a repeating crossbow with one hand or fire a repeat- 


TABLE 7—5: WEAPONS 


Simple Weapons 
Unarmed Attacks 
Gauntlet 
Unarmed strike 
Light Melee Weapons 
Dagger 
Dagger, punching 
Gauntlet, spiked 
Mace, light 
Sickle 
One-Handed Melee Weapons 
Club 
Mace, heavy 
Morningstar 
Shortspear 
Two-Handed Melee Weapons 
Longspear* 
Quarterstaff 
Spear 
Ranged Weapons 
Crossbow, heavy 
Bolts, crossbow (10) 
Crossbow, light 
Bolts, crossbow (10) 
Dart 
Javelin 
Sling 
Bullets, sling (10) 


Martial Weapons 
Light Melee Weapons 
Axe, throwing 
Hammer, light 
Handaxe 
Kukri 
Pick, light 
Sap 
Shield, light 
Spiked armor 
Spiked shield, light 
Sword, short 
One-Handed Melee Weapons 
Battleaxe 
Flail 
Longsword 
Pick, heavy 
Rapier 
Scimitar 
Shield, heavy 
Spiked shield, heavy 
Trident 
Warhammer 


8gp 
1 gp 
6 gp 
8 gp 
4 gp 
1gp 
special 
special 
special 
10 gp 


10 gp 
8gp 
15 gp 
8gp 
20 gp 
15 gp 
special 
special 
15 gp 
12 gp 


Dmg (S) 


1d2 
1d23 


1d3 
1d3 
1d3 
1d4 
1d4 


1d4 
1d6 
1d6 
1d4 


1d6 
1d4/1d4 
1d6 


1d8 


1d6 
1d3 
1d4 
1d3 


Dmg (S) 


1d4 
1d3 
1d4 
1d3 
1d3 
1d43 
1d2 
1d4 
1d3 
1d4 


1d6 
1d6 
1d6 
1d4 
1d4 
1d4 
1d3 
1d4 
1d6 
1d6 


Dmg (M) 


1d3 
1d33 


1d4 
1d4 
1d4 
1d6 
1d6 


1d6 
1d8 
1d8 
1d6 


1d8 
1d6/1d6 
1d8 


1d10 


1d8 
1d4 
1d6 
1d4 


Dmg (M) 


1d6 
1d4 
1d6 
1d4 
1d4 
1d6? 
1d3 
1d6 
1d4 
1d6 


1d8 
1d8 
1d8 
1d6 
1d6 
1d6 
1d4 
1d6 
1d8 
1d8 


ing crossbow in each hand in the same manner as you would a, 
normal crossbow of the same size. However, you must fire the | 
weapon with two hands in order to use the reloading lever, and | 
you must use two hands to load a new case of bolts. | 
Dagger: The dagger is a common secondary weapon. You get a 


|+2 bonus on Sleight of Hand checks made to conceal a dagger on 
your body (see the Sleight of Hand skill, page 81). 


Dagger, Punching: This dagger puts more force from your 
punch behind it, making it capable of deadly strikes. 

Dart: A dart is the size of a large arrow and has a weighted head. | 
Essentially, it is a small javelin. 


Critical Range Increment Weight’ Type? 

x2 — 1 lb. Bludgeoning 

x2 = = Bludgeoning 
19-20/x2 10 ft. 1 Ib. Piercing or slashing 

x3 — 1 lb. Piercing 

x2 = 1 Ib. Piercing 

x2 = 4 Ib. Bludgeoning 

x2 = 2 Ib. Slashing 

x2 10 ft. 3 Ib. Bludgeoning 

x2 — 8 Ib. Bludgeoning 

x2 = 6 |b. Bludgeoning and piercing 

x2 20 ft. 3 Ib. Piercing 

x3 = 9 Ib. Piercing 

x2 = 4 |b. Bludgeoning 

x3 20 ft. 6 |b. Piercing 
19-20/x2 120 ft. 8 lb. Piercing 

— — 1 Ib. — 
19-20/x2 80 ft. 4 |b. Piercing 

— — 1 Ib. = 

x2 20 ft. 1/2 lb. Piercing 

x2 30 ft. 2 Ib. Piercing 

x2 50 ft. 0 Ib. Bludgeoning 

= = 5 Ib. — 

Critical Range Increment Weight’ Type? 

x2 10 ft. 2 lb. Slashing 

x2 20 ft. 2 Ib. Bludgeoning 

x3 — 3 Ib. Slashing 
18-20/x2 — 2 lb. Slashing 

x4 = 3 Ib. Piercing 

x2 = 2 Ib. Bludgeoning 

x2 = special Bludgeoning 

x2 = special Piercing 

x2 = special Piercing 
19-20/x2 = 2 lb. Piercing 

x3 = 6 |b. Slashing 

x2 = 5 Ib. Bludgeoning 
19-20/x2 = 4 Ib. Slashing 

x4 — 6 Ib. Piercing 
18-20/x2 = 2 Ib. Piercing 
18-20/x2 — 4 |b. Slashing 

x2 = special Bludgeoning 

x2 = special Piercing 

x2 10 ft. 4 Ib. Piercing 

x3 = 5 Ib. Bludgeoning 


Falchion: This sword, which is essentially a two-handed scimi- to avoid being disarmed if such an attempt fails). 


tar, has a curve that gives it the effect of a keener edge. You can also use this weapon to make trip attacks. If you are | 
Flail, Dire: A dire flail is a double weapon. You can fight with it tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the dire flail to | 
as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you incur all the avoid being tripped. | 
normal attack penalties associated with fighting with two. | Flail or Heavy Flail: With a flail, you get a +2 bonus on 
weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon anda; _lopposed attack rolls made to disarm an enemy (including the roll 
light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). A creature} _to avoid being disarmed if such an attempt fails). 
wielding a dire flail in one hand can’t use it as a double weapon—, You can also use this weapon to make trip attacks. If you are 
Lonly one end of the weapon can be used in any given round. } tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the flail to, 
When using a dire flail, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack! _,avoid being tripped. | 
rolls made to disarm an enemy (including the opposed attack roll Gauntlet: This metal glove protects your hands and lets you | 


Two-Handed Melee Weapons 


Falchion 75 gp 1d6 2d4 18-20/x2 — 8 lb. Slashing 
Glaive‘ 8 gp 1d8 1d10 x3 — 10 Ib. Slashing 
Greataxe 20 gp 1d10 1d12 x3 = 12 |b. Slashing 
Greatclub 5 gp 1d8 1d10 x2 = 8 Ib. Bludgeoning 
Flail, heavy 15 gp 1d8 1d10 19-20/x2 — 10 Ib. Bludgeoning 
Greatsword 50 gp 1d10 2d6 19-20/x2 — 8 lb. Slashing 
Guisarme* 9 gp 1d6 2d4 x3 — 12 |b. Slashing 
Halberd 10 gp 1d8 1d10 x3 = 12 |b. Piercing or slashing 
Lance‘ 10 gp 1d6 1d8 x3 — 10 lb. Piercing 
Ranseur* 10 gp 1d6 2d4 x3 — 12 lb. Piercing 
Scythe 18 gp 1d6 2d4 x4 — 10 lb. Piercing or slashing 
Ranged Weapons 
Longbow 75 gp 1d6 1d8 x3 100 ft. 3 Ib. Piercing 
Arrows (20) 1gp — — — — 3 Ib. — 
Longbow, composite 100 gp 1d6 1d8 x3 110 ft. 3 Ib. Piercing 
Arrows (20) 1gp — — — — 3 Ib. — 
Shortbow 30 gp 1d4 1d6 x3 60 ft. 2 Ib. Piercing 
Arrows (20) 1 gp — — — — 3 Ib. — 
Shortbow, composite 75 gp 1d4 1d6 x3 70 ft. 2 lb. Piercing 
Arrows (20) 1gp — — — — 3 Ib. — 
Exotic Weapons Cost Dmg (S) Dmg (M) Critical Range Increment __ Weight Type” 
Light Melee Weapons 
Kama 2 gp 1d4 1d6 x2 = 2 Ib. Slashing 
Nunchaku 2 gp 1d4 1d6 x2 = 2 Ib. Bludgeoning 
Sai 1gp 1d3 1d4 x2 10 ft. 1 lb. Bludgeoning 
Siangham 3 gp 1d4 1d6 x2 — 1 lb. Piercing 
One-Handed Melee Weapons 
Sword, bastard 35 gp 1d8 1d10 19-20/x2 — 6 lb. Slashing 
Waraxe, dwarven 30 gp 1d8 1d10 x3 — 8 lb. Slashing 
Whip‘ 1gp 1d23 1d33 x2 2 Ib. Slashing 
Two-Handed Melee Weapons 
Axe, orc double® 60 gp 1d6/1d6 1d8/1ld8 x3 — 15 lb. Slashing 
Chain, spiked‘ 25 gp 1d6 2d4 x2 = 10 lb. Piercing 
Flail, dire? 90 gp 1d6/1d6 1d8/1d8 x2 — 10 Ib. Bludgeoning 
Hammer, gnome hooked? 20 gp 1d6/1d4 1d8/1d6 x3/x4 — 6 lb. Bludgeoning or piercing 
Sword, two-bladed* 100 gp 1d6/1d6 1d8/1d8 19-20/x2 — 10 Ib. Slashing 
Urgrosh, dwarven? 50 gp 1d6/1d4___1d8/1d6 x3 — 12 lb. Slashing or piercing 
Ranged Weapons 
Bolas 5 gp 1d33 1443 x2 10 ft. 2 Ib. Bludgeoning 
Crossbow, hand 100 gp 1d3 1d4 19-20/x2 30 ft. 2 Ib. Piercing 
Bolts (10) 1gp — — — — 1 lb. — 
Crossbow, repeating heavy 400 gp 1d8 1d10 19-20/x2 120 ft. 12 lb. Piercing 
Bolts (5) 1gp — — — Lb. — 
Crossbow, repeating light 250 gp 1d6 1d8 19-20/x2 80 ft. 6 lb. Piercing 
Bolts (5) 1gp — — — 11b. — 
Net 20 gp — — 10 ft. 6 lb. — 
Shuriken (5) 1gp 1 1d2 x2 10 ft. 1/2 lb. Piercing 


1 Weight figures are for Medium weapons. A Small weapon weighs half as much, and a Large weapon weighs twice as much. 

2 When two types are given, the weapon is both types if the entry specifies “and,” or either type (player's choice at time of attack) if the entry 
specifies “or.” 

3 The weapon deals nonlethal damage rather than lethal damage. 

4 Reach weapon. 

5 Double weapon. 


= 
N 
w 
8 
S 
S 
N) 
© 
of 
N 
Ss 
3 


deal lethal damage rather than nonlethal damage with unarmed 
strikes. A strike with a gauntlet is otherwise considered an 
unarmed attack. The cost and weight given are for a single gaunt- 
let. Medium and heavy armors (except breastplate) come with 


gauntlets. 4 
Gauntlet, Spiked: Your opponent cannot use a disarm action + 


.to disarm you of spiked gauntlets. The cost and weight given are} 


5 


‘ered an armed attack. 
[away with it, but you can't use it against an adjacent foe. 
|__Greataxe: This big, heavy axe is a favorite of barbarians and any- 
_body else who wants the capability to deal out incredible damage. 
Greatclub: A greatclub is a two-handed version of a regular 
club. It is often studded with nails or spikes or ringed by bands of 
iron. 
+ Greatsword: Adventurers recognize the greatsword as one of 
the best melee weapons available. It’s reliable and powerful. 


[fora single gauntlet. An attack with a spiked gauntlet is conid | 


Glaive: A glaive has reach. You can strike opponents 10 feet | 


Guisarme: A guisarme has reach. You can strike opponents 10 


feet away with it, but you cant use it against an adjacent foe. 


+ 


Because of a guisarme’s curved blade, you can also use it to make | 


trip attacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you 
can drop the guisarme to avoid being tripped. 

Halberd: Normally, you strike with a halberd’s axe head, but 
the spike on the end is useful against charging opponents. If you 
use a ready action to set a halberd against a charge, you deal double 
damage on a successful hit against a charging character. 

You can use the hook on the back of a halberd to make trip 

lattacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can 
drop the halberd to avoid being tripped. 

Hammer, Gnome Hooked: A gnome hooked hammer is a 
double weapon. You can fight with it as if fighting with two 
weapons, but if you do, you incur all the normal attack penalties 


to 


$ — 


Crossbow 
Bolts 
) Arrows 
b l G Quiver 


Hand 


A Crossbow 


Light Crossbow 


s-Bolt Clip 
Sor Repeating 


Crossbow 


Heavy Crossbow 
[Comes with Winch 
Sor Reloading] 


associated with fighting with two weapons, just as if you were. 
using a one-handed weapon and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon | 
Fighting, page 160). The hammer’s blunt head deals bludgeoning | 
damage (crit x3), and its hook deals piercing damage. The blunt. 


head uses a larger die for damage rolls than the hook does. You can 
Luse either head as the primary weapon. The other head is the off- 
hand weapon. A creature wielding a gnome hooked hammer in 


one hand can't use it as a double weapon—only one end of the 
weapon can be used in any given round. 
You can use the hook on a gnome hooked hammer to make trip, J 
lattacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can | 
drop the gnome hooked hammer to avoid being tripped. 
Gnomes treat gnome hooked hammers as martial weapons. 


Hammer, Light: This is a small sledge light enough to throw. It , 


is favored by dwarves. | 
Handaxe: Dwarves favor these axes as off-hand weapons, _ i 

| Javelin: This weapon is a light, flexible spear intended for 

throwing. You can use it in melee, but not well. Since it is not, 


\designed for melee, you are treated as nonproficient with it and, 


take a —4 penalty on attack rolls if you use it as a melee weapon. 


Kama: The kama is a special monk weapon. This designation ; 
gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a kama special 
options. 

Because of a kama’s shape, you can use it to make trip attacks. If 
you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop the 
kama to avoid being tripped. 

Kukri: This heavy, curved knife has its sharp edge on the inside | 
Lof the curve. 


4 

Lance: A lance deals double damage when used from the | 
back of a charging mount. It has reach, so you can strike oppo- 
nents 10 feet away with it, but you can't use it against an adja-_ 
cent foe. — E aN 


While mounted, you can wield a lance with one hand. 


Composite 
Longbow 


Composite Shorthow 


Longbow 


Repeating 
Crossbow 


4 


Longbow: You need at least two hands to use a bow, regardless 
of its size. A longbow is too unwieldy to use while you are 
mounted. If you have a penalty for low Strength, apply it to 
damage rolls when you use a longbow. If you have a bonus for high 
Strength, you can apply it to damage rolls when you use a com-|. 
posite longbow (see below) but not a regular longbow. 


Longbow, Composite: You need at least two hands to use ‘al 


bow, regardless of its size. You can use a composite longbow while | 
| mounted. Composite bows are made from laminated horn, wood,| } 
_or bone and built with a recurve, meaning that the bow remains | 
_bow-shaped even when unstrung. All composite bows are made | 
with a particular strength rating (that is, each requires a minimum 
_Strength modifier to use with proficiency). If your Strength bonus 
is less than the strength rating of the composite bow, you can't 
effectively use it, so you take a —2 penalty on attacks with it. The 
default composite longbow requires a Strength modifier of +0 or 
higher to use with proficiency. A composite longbow can be made 
with a high strength rating (representing an especially heavy pull) | 
to take advantage of an above-average Strength score; this feature | 
Lallows you to add your Strength bonus to damage, up to the maxi- | 
mum bonus indicated for the bow. Each point of Strength bonus , 
granted by the bow adds 100 gp to its cost. For instance, a compos- 
ite longbow (+1 Str bonus) costs 200 gp, while a composite long- 
bow (+4 Str bonus) costs 500 gp. 
For example, Tordek has a +2 Strength bonus. With a regular 
composite longbow, he gets no modifier on damage rolls. For 
1200 gp, he can buy a composite longbow (+1 Str bonus), which lets 
him add +1 to his damage rolls. For 300 gp, he can buy one that lets 
him add his entire +2 Strength bonus. Even if he paid 400 gp for a 
‘composite longbow (+3 Str bonus), he would still get only a +2 
_bonus on damage rolls and takes a —2 penalty on attacks with it 
| because his Strength is insufficient to use the weapon to best advan- 
„tage. The bow can’t grant him a higher bonus than he already has. 


Gauntlet 


4 Halberd 


For purposes of weapon proficiency and similar feats, a com-. 
posite longbow is treated as if it were a longbow. Thus, if you have | 
Weapon Focus (longbow), that feat applies both to longbows and | 
composite longbows. — | 

Longspear: A longspear has reach. You can strike opponents 10 


feet away with it, but you can't use it against an adjacent foe. If you 
luse a ready action to set a longspear against a charge, you deal 


double damage on a successful hit against a charging character. 
Longsword: This classic, straight blade is the weapon of | 


knighthood and valor. It is a favorite weapon of many ; paladins. 


Mace, Heavy or Light: A mace is made of metal, even the haft, | } 
which makes it quite heavy and very hard to break. __ 

Morningstar: This simple weapon combines the impact ofa 
club with the piercing force of spikes. 

Net: A fighting net has small barbs in the weave and a trailin ngl | 
rope to control netted opponents. You use it to entangle enemies. 

When you throw a net, you make a ranged touch attack against 


_your target. A net’s maximum range is 10 feet. If you hit, the target , 
is entangled. An entangled creature takes a —2 penalty on attack, 
¿rolls and a —4 penalty on Dexterity, can move at only half speed, 


and cannot charge or run. If you control the trailing rope by suc- ; 
ceeding on an opposed Strength check while holding it, the. 
entangled creature can move only within the limits that the rope 
allows. If the entangled creature attempts to cast a spell, it must 
make a DC 15 Concentration check or be unable to cast the spell. 
An entangled creature can escape with a DC 20 Escape Artist. 
check (a full-round action). The net has 5 hit points and can be | 


burst with a DC 25 Strength check (also a full-round action). 


A net is useful only against creatures within one size category of | 
you. For instance, a Small character wielding a net can entangle] 
Tiny, Small, or Medium creatures. 4 

A net must be folded to be thrown effectively. The first time you. 
throw your net in a fight, you make a normal ranged touch attack | 


$ Dwarven 
Urgrosh 


Throwing Axe 


Greataxe 


N 
= 
oe 

S 
Š 
a 
Ss 
ko 
N 
~ 


roll. After the net is unfolded, you take a —4 penalty on attack rolls 
with it. It takes 2 rounds for a proficient user to fold a net and 
twice that long for a nonproficient one to do so. 

Nunchaku: The nunchaku is a special monk weapon This des- 
ignation gives a monk wielding a nunchaku special options. With | 
a nunchaku, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls made to 
„disarm an enemy (including the roll to avoid being disarmed if} 
[such an attempt fails). Seat 

__ Pick, Heavy or Light: A pick i is designed to concentrate the | 
force of its blow on a small area. A light or heavy pick resembles a | 
¡miner ’s pick but is specifically designed for war. 

__Quarterstaff: The quarterstaff is the favorite weapon of many | 
characters, from travelers, peasants, and merchants to monks, 
rangers, and wizards. A quarterstaff is a double weapon. You can 
fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, you 
incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting with 
‚two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon and a 
slight weapon (see Two-Weapon Fightng, page 160). You can also 
[strike with ei either end singly, a fact that allows you to take full 

[advantage of openings in your opponent's defenses. A creature | 
wielding a quarterstaff in one hand can’t use it as a double | 
weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in any given 
round. 

The quarterstaff is a special monk weapon. This designation 
gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a quarterstaff spe- 
cial options. 

Ranseur: A ranseur has reach. You can strike opponents 10 feet 

[away with it, but you can't use it against an adjacent foe. 
| With a ranseur, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls made 

‘to disarm an opponent (including the roll to avoid being disarmed 

lif such an attempt fails). 

| Rapier: You can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to ap- 

‚ply your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to 


of 


eae Flail i Light Flail 


Dire Flail 


Morningstar i 


Light Mace 
Heavy Mace 
Come Light Pick 
Hooked 
Hammer 
Light Hammer A Heavy Pick 


Sling — j 
[with Bullets in pouch] 


Punching Dagger [Katar] lars Frane-Weet 


attack rolls with a rapier sized for you, even though it isn't a light, 
weapon for you. You cant wield a rapier in two hands in order to | 
apply 1-1/2 times your Strength bonus to damage. 

Sai: A sai’s pronglike extrusions are designed to help catch. and] 

disarm opponents’ weapons. With a sai, you get a +4 bonus on 
_.opposed attack rolls made to disarm an enemy (including the roll 
\to avoid being disarmed if such an attempt fails). 

The sai is a special monk weapon. This designation gives a 
monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a sai special options. 

Sap: A sap comes in handy when you want to knock an oppo- ; 

l nent out instead of killing it. } 

Scimitar: The curve on this blade gives it the effect of a keener 
edge. 

Scythe: While it resembles the standard farm implement ofthe, 
same name, this scythe is balanced and strengthened for war. The | 
design of the scythe focuses tremendous force on the sharp point, 

Las well as allowing devastating slashes with the blade edge. 

| Because of a scythe’s shape, you can also use it to make trip, 
lattacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can 
_drop the scythe to avoid being tripped. 

Shield, Heavy or Light: You can bash with a shield instead of , 
using it for defense. See Armor, later in this chapter. 

Shortbow: You need at least two hands to use a bow, regardless | 
of its size. You can use a shortbow while mounted. If you have a 
penalty for low Strength, apply it to damage rolls when you use a 
shortbow. If you have a bonus for high Strength, you can apply it. 
to damage rolls when you use a composite shortbow (see below) 

_but not a regular shortbow. zza 4 

Shortbow, Composite: You need at least two wo hands to use al 
bow, regardless of its size. You can use a composite shortbow while | } 
mounted. Composite bows are made from laminated horn, wood, | 
or bone and built with a recurve, meaning that the bow remains | 
bow-shaped even when unstrung. All composite bows are made | 


+ 


+ 


Dagger 
Short Sword 
Longsword - ' 


Bastard Sword 


_ Greatsword 


el Sword 


Falchion 


— N 


~a Scimitar ; 
Rapier ) 


with a particular strength rating (that is, each requires a minimum 
Strength modifier to use with proficiency). If your Strength bonus 
is lower than the strength rating of the composite bow, you can't 
effectively use it, so you take a —2 penalty on attacks with it. The 
default composite shortbow requires a Strength modifier of +0 or, 
higher to use with proficiency. A composite shortbow can be | 


_made with a high strength rating (representing an especially, 
\heavy pull) to take advantage of an above-average Strength score; 
| this feature allows you to add your Strength bonus to damage, up} 
to the maximum bonus indicated for the bow. Each point of | 


‘Strength bonus granted by the bow adds 75 gp to its cost. For, 


Linstance, a composite shortbow (+1 Str bonus) costs 150 gp, while 
_acomposite shortbow (+4 Str bonus) costs 375 gp. 

For example, Tordek has a +2 Strength bonus. With a regular 
composite shortbow, he gets no modifier on damage rolls. For 150 
gp, he can buy a composite shortbow (+1 Str bonus), which lets 

him add +1 to his damage rolls. For 225 gp, he can buy one that lets 


him add his entire +2 Strength bonus. Even if he paid 300 gp for a| 
composite shortbow (+3 Str bonus), he would still get only a +2) 
bonus on damage rolls and takes a —2 penalty to use it because his | 

Strength is insufficient to use the weapon to best advantage. The | 


bow can't grant him a higher bonus than he already has. 

For purposes of weapon proficiency and similar feats, a com- 
posite shortbow is treated as if it were a shortbow. Thus, if you 
have Weapon Focus (shortbow), that feat applies both to short- 
bows and composite shortbows. 

__Shortspear: A shortspear is small enough to wield one- 
handed. It may also be thrown. 
| Shuriken: A shuriken is a special monk weapon. This designa- 
tion gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding shuriken spe- 
icial options. A shuriken can't be used as a melee weapon. 

Although they are thrown weapons, shuriken are treated as 

_ammunition for the purposes of drawing them, crafting master- 
work or otherwise special versions of them (see Masterwork 
Weapons, below), and what happens to them after they are 
thrown. 


Siangham: The siangham is a special monk weapon. This des- 


ignation gives a monk (see Chapter 3: Classes) wielding a siang-_ 


ham special options. 


who wants a weapon that might be overlooked by guards. 

Because of a sickle’s shape, you can also use it to make trip 
attacks. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can 
drop the sickle to avoid being tripped. 

Sling: A sling hurls lead bullets. It doesn’t shoot as far as a 
crossbow, nor is it as powerful as a bow, but it’s cheap and easy to 

improvise from common materials. Druids and halflings favor 

| slings. Your Strength modifier applies to damage rolls when you 

Luse a sling, just as it does for thrown weapons. You can fire, but not 

load, a sling with one hand. Loading a sling is a move action that 
requires two hands and provokes attacks of opportunity. 

You can hurl ordinary stones with a sling, but stones are not as 
dense or as round as bullets. Thus, such an attack deals damage as 
if the weapon were designed for a creature one size category 
smaller than you (for instance, 1d3 instead of 1d4, or 1d2 instead 
of 1d3), and you take a —1 penalty on attack rolls. 

Spear: One of the simplest weapons in existence, the spear is 
_ready action to set a spear against a charge, you “deal double 
damage on a successful hit against a charging character. 

Spiked Armor: You can outfit your armor with spikes, which 

_\can deal damage in a grapple or as a separate attack. See Armor, 
[later in this chapter. 
Spiked Shield, Heavy or Light: You can bash with a spiked 


shield instead of using it for defense. See Armor, later in this | 


chapter. 


—- 


Sickle: This weapon is like a farmer’s sickle, but it is strength- | 
ened for use as a weapon. It is favored by druids and by anyone. 


+ 


Strike, Unarmed: A Medium character deals 1d3 points of, 
nonlethal damage with an unarmed strike, which may be a punch, | 
kick, head butt, or other type of attack. A Small character deals 1d2 | 
points of nonlethal damage. A monk or any character with the, 

Improved Unarmed Strike feat can deal lethal or nonlethal dam- 

lage with unarmed strikes, at her option. The damage from an un- 

\armed strike is considered weapon damage for the purposes of 
effects that give you a bonus on weapon damage rolls. 

An unarmed strike is always considered a light weapon. There- , 

‚fore, you can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your; 


| Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack] 


+ 


dpn 


rolls with an unarmed strike. = 

Sword, Bastard: Bastard swords are also known as hand-and-a- 
half swords. A bastard sword is too large to use in one hand with- 
out special training; thus, it is an exotic weapon. A character can | 
use a bastard sword two-handed as a martial weapon. 
Sword, Short: This sword is popular as an off-hand weapon. 
Sword, Two-Bladed: A two-bladed sword is a double weapon. , 


\ You can fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, 
{you incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting 


with two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon | 
and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). A crea-_ 
ture wielding a two-bladed sword in one hand can't use it as a 
double weapon—only one end of the weapon can be used in any 
given round. 

Trident: This three-tined piercing weapon can be thrown just, 
as a shortspear or spear can be, but its range increment is shorter | 


| because it’s not as aerodynamic as those other weapons. If you use |_ 


a ready action to set a trident against a charge, you deal double | 
damage on a successful hit against a charging character. - 

Urgrosh, Dwarven: A dwarven urgrosh is a double weapon, | A 
You can fight with it as if fighting with two weapons, but if you do, | 
you incur all the normal attack penalties associated with fighting | 
with two weapons, just as if you were using a one-handed weapon 
and a light weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160). The 
urgrosh’s axe head deals slashing damage, and its spear head deals 
piercing damage. The axe head uses a larger die for damage rolls 
than the spear head does. You can use either head as the primary 
weapon. The other is the off-hand weapon. A creature wielding a 
dwarven urgrosh in one hand can't use it as a double weapon— 
only one end of the weapon can be used in any given round. 

If you use a ready action to set an urgrosh against a charge, you 
deal double damage if you score a hit against a charging character. 
If you use an urgrosh against a charging character, the spear head 
is the part of the weapon that deals damage. 

An urgrosh is also called a spear-axe. Dwarves treat dwarven 
urgroshes as martial weapons. 

Waraxe, Dwarven: A dwarven waraxe is too large to use in one 
hand without special training; thus, it is an exotic weapon. A 
Medium character can use a dwarven waraxe two-handed as a mar- 
tial weapon, or a Large creature can use it one-handed in the same 
way. A dwarf treats a dwarven waraxe as a martial weapon even 
when using it in one hand. 

Warhammer: This weapon, favored by dwarves, is a one- 
handed sledge or maul with a large, heavy head. 

Whip: A whip deals nonlethal damage. It deals no damage to 
any creature with an armor bonus of +1 or higher or a natural | 
armor bonus of +3 or higher. The whip is treated as a melee | 
weapon with 15-foot reach, though you don't threaten the area | 
into which you can make an attack. In addition, unlike most other | 
_weapons with reach, you can use it against foes anywhere within | 
your reach (including adjacent foes). 

Using a whip provokes an attack of opportunity, just as if you l 
(had used a ranged weapon. 


Because a whip can wrap around an enemy's leg or other limb, 


[you can make trip attacks with it. If you are tripped during your 


own trip attempt, you can drop the whip to avoid being tripped. 


When using a whip, you get a +2 bonus on opposed attack rolls 


made to disarm an opponent (including the roll to keep from 
being disarmed if the attack fails). 
You can use the Weapon Finesse feat (page 102) to apply your Dex- 


terity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to attack rolls with 


a whip sized for you, even though it isn't a light weapon for you. | 


MASTERWORK WEAPONS 


[A masterwork weapon is a finely crafted version ofa normal weapon. 
Wielding it provides a +1 enhancement bonus on attack rolls. 


+ 
+ 


4 


+ 


|_You can’t add the masterwork quality to a weapon after it is cre- | 


lated; it must be crafted as a masterwork weapon (see the Craft skill, 
_page 70). The masterwork quality adds 300 gp to the cost of a normal 
weapon (or changes the cost of a single unit of ammunition (such as 
an arrow) to 7 gp). For example, a masterwork bastard sword costs 
335 gp, while a set of 10 masterwork arrows costs 70 gp. Adding the 
_masterwork quality to a double weapon costs twice the normal 
increase (+600 gp). 
Masterwork ammunition is damaged (effectively destroyed) 
when used. The enhancement bonus of masterwork ammunition | 


does not stack with any enhancement bonus of the projectile | 


weapon firing it. 

All magic weapons are automatically considered to be of mas- 
terwork quality. The enhancement bonus granted by the master- 
work quality doesn’t stack with the enhancement bonus provided 
by the weapon's magic. 

__Even though some types of armor and shields (such as spiked 
_shields) can be used as weapons, you can't create a masterwork ver- 
\sion of such an item that confers an enhancement bonus on attack 
‘rolls. Instead, masterwork armor and shields have lessened armor 
icheck penalties (see Masterwork Armor, page 126). _ 


$ m 


Your armor protects you in combat, but it can also slow you down. 
See Table 7—6: Armor and Shields for the list of armors available. 


The information given on this table is for armor sized for Medium | 


creatures. The time it takes to get into or out of armor depends on. 


its type (see Table 7-7: Donning Armor). 


ARMOR QUALITIES 


Armor isn't the only fashion statement a character can make, but 
it’s a big one. In addition, depending on class, a character may be 
proficient with all, some, or no armors, including shields. To wear 
heavier armor effectively, a character can select the Armor Profi- 
ciency feats (page 89), but most classes are automatically profi- 
cient with the armors that work best for them. 

__ Armor and shields can take damage from some types of attacks 

| (see Sunder, page 158, and Smashing an Object, page 165). 
___When selecting your character's armor, keep in mind the fol- 
lowing factors (given as column headings on Table 7—6: Armor 
and Shields). 

Cost: The cost of the armor for Small or Medium humanoid 
creatures. See the Armor for Unusual Creatures sidebar for armor 
prices for other creatures. 

Armor/Shield Bonus: Each armor grants an armor bonus to 
AC, while shields grant a shield bonus to AC. This number repre- 
sents the protective value of the armor or shield. The armor bonus 
from a suit of armor doesn't stack with other effects or items that 

_grant an armor bonus, such as the mage armor spell or bracers of 
_armor. Similarly, the shield bonus from a shield doesn't stack with 


PS Maximum Dex Bon a shield bonus, such as the shield spell. 


Maximum Dex Bonus: This number is the maximum Dexter- 
lity bonus to AC that this type of armor allows. Heavier armors 
limit mobility, reducing the wearer’s ability to dodge blows. For 


example, chainmail permits a maximum Dexterity bonus of +2. A | 


== 
i 


4 


character with a Dexterity score of 18 normally gains a +4 bonus to | 
f 


AC, but wearing chainmail drops that bonus to +2. Such a charac- , 
ter’s final Armor Class would be 17 (10 base + 5 armor bonus + 2. 
Dex bonus = 17), assuming he has no other modifiers. This restric- | 
tion doesn’t affect any other Dexterity-related abilities (such as} 


| Reflex saves and skill checks). 
| Even if a character's Dexterity bonus to AC drops to 0 because 
Ļof armor, this situation does not count as losing a Dexterity bonus 


to AC. For example, a rogue can’t sneak attack a character just 
because he or she is wearing half-plate. 
Your character’s encumbrance (the amount of gear he or she] 


\carries) may also restrict the maximum Dexterity bonus that can | 


be applied to his or her Armor Class; see Encumbrance by Armor, 
page 161, for details. 
Shields: Shields other than tower shields do not affect a charac-, 
ter’s maximum Dexterity bonus. — 
Armor Check Penalty: Any armor heavier than leather hurts a 
.character’s ability to use some skills. An armor check penalty 


lnumber i is the penalty that applies to Balance, Climb, Escape, 
\Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Sleight of Hand, and Tumble, 
checks by a character wearing a certain kind of armor. Double the 


normal armor check penalty is applied to Swim checks. Some 
characters dont much care about the armor check penalty, but. 
others do. The barbarian, in particular, faces a trade-off between 
heavier armor and better skill check results. A character’s encum- 
brance (the amount of gear carried, including armor) may also 
apply an armor check penalty; see Encumbrance by Armor, page 
161, for details. 

Shields: If a character is wearing armor and. using ashield, both | 4 
armor check penalties apply. j 

Nonproficient with Armor Worn: A character who wears a armor | 
and/or uses a shield with which he or she is not proficient takes | 
the armor’s (and/or shield’s) armor check penalty on attack rolls | 
and on all Strength-based or Dexterity-based ability and skill 
checks. The penalty for nonproficiency with armor stacks with 
the penalty for nonproficiency with shields. ec 

Sleeping in Armor: A character who sleeps in medium or heavy 
armor is automatically fatigued the next day. He or she takes a —2 
penalty on Strength and Dexterity and can't charge or run. Sleep- 
ing in light armor does not cause fatigue. _ 

Arcane Spell Failure: Armor interferes with the gestures that 
a spellcaster must make to cast an arcane spell that has a somatic 
component. Arcane spellcasters face the possibility of arcane spell 
failure if they're wearing armor, so wizards and sorcerers usually 
don't do so. Bards can wear light armor without incurring any 
arcane spell failure chance for their bard spells. 

Casting an Arcane Spell in Armor: A character who casts an arcane 
spell while wearing armor must usually make an arcane spell fail- 
ure roll. The number in the Arcane Spell Failure Chance column 
on Table 7—6 is the chance that the spell fails and is ruined. If the 
spell lacks a somatic component, however, it can be cast with no 
chance of arcane spell failure. 

Shields: If a character is wearing armor and using a shield, add the 
two numbers together to get a single arcane spell failure chance. 

Speed: Medium or heavy armor slows the wearer down. It’s 
better to be slow and alive than to be quick and dead, but don't 
neglect to give speed some thought. The number on Table 7—6 is 
the character's speed while wearing the armor. Humans, elves, | 
half-elves, and half-orcs have an unencumbered speed of 30 feet. , 
They use the first column. Dwarves, gnomes, and halflings have | 
an unencumbered speed of 20 feet. They use the second column. | 


_Remember, however, that a dwarf’s land speed remains 20 feet | 


even in medium or heavy armor or when carrying a medium or 4 
heavy load. { 
Shields: Shields do not affect a character's speed. 
Weight: This column gives the weight of the armor sized for a 


{Medium wearer. Armor fitted for Small characters weighs half as 


much, and armor for Large characters weighs twice as much. 


TABLE 7—6: ARMOR AND SHIELDS 
Armor/Shield _ Maximum 


Armor Cost Bonus Dex Bonus 
Light armor 
Padded 5 gp +1 +8 
Leather 10 gp 2 +6 
Studded leather 25 gp +3 +5 
Chain shirt 100 gp +4 +4 
Medium armor 
Hide 15 gp +3 +4 
Scale mail 50 gp +4 +3 
Chainmail 150 gp +5 +2 
Breastplate 200 gp +5 +3 
Heavy armor 
Splint mail 200 gp +6 +0 
Banded mail 250 gp +6 +1 
Half-plate 600 gp +7 +0 
Full plate 1,500 gp +8 +1 
Shields 
Buckler 15 gp +1 = 
Shield, light wooden 3 gp +] = 
Shield, light steel 9 gp +1 — 
Shield, heavy wooden 7gp +2 — 
Shield, heavy steel 20 gp +2 — 
Shield, tower 30 gp +43 +2 
Extras 
Armor spikes +50 gp — — 
Gauntlet, locked 8 gp — — 
Shield spikes +10 gp = = 


Armor Arcane Spell —— Speed 
Check Penalty Failure Chance (30 ft.) (20 ft.) Weight’ 
0 5% 30 ft. 20 ft. 10 Ib. 
0 10% 30 ft. 20 ft. 15 |b. 
-1 15% 30 ft. 20 ft. 20 Ib. 
-2 20% 30 ft. 20 ft. 25 |b. 
-3 20% 20 ft. 15 ft. 25 Ib. | 
—4 25% 20 ft. f 301b. 
-5 30% 20 ft. 15 it, 40 Ib. 
—4 25% 20 ft. 15 ft. 30 |b. 
-7 40% 20 ft.? ipfi 451b. < 
=0 35% 20 ft.? 15 ft? 35 |b. 
-7 40% 20 ft.? j EEE aka 50 Ib. 
-6 35% 20 ft.? Msita 50 Ib 
-1 5% = — 5 lb. 
-1 5% — — 5 lb. 
-1 5% = = 6 |b. 
-2 15% — — 10 Ib 
-2 15% = = 15 |b 
-10 50% — — 45 Ib 
— — — — +10 Ib 
Special # — — +5 lb. 
— — — — +5 lb. 


(1 Weight figures are for armor sized to fit Medium characters. Armor fitted for Small characters weighs half as much, and armor fitted for Large 


characters weighs twice as much. 


2 When running in heavy armor, you move only triple your speed, not quadruple. 


3 A tower shield can instead grant you cover. See the description. 
4 Hand not free to cast spells. 


GETTING INTO AND OUT OF ARMOR 


The time required to don armor depends on its type; see Table 7-7: 
Donning Armor. | 

Don: This column on Table 7-7 tells how long it takes a charac- | 
ter to put the armor on. (One minute is 10 rounds.) Readying | 
(strapping on) a shield is only a move action. 

Don Hastily: This column tells how long it takes to put the 
armor on ina hurry. The armor check penalty and armor bonus for 
hastily donned armor are each 1 point worse than normal. For 
example, if Tordek donned his scale mail hastily, it would take him 


ARMOR FOR UNUSUAL CREATURES 

Armor and shields for unusually big creatures, unusually little crea- 
tures, and nonhumanoid creatures have different costs and weights 
from those given on Table 7—6: Armor and Shields. Refer to the appro- 
priate line on the table below and apply the multipliers to cost and 
weight for the armor type in question. 


Humanoid Nonhumanoid 
Size Cost Weight Cost Weight 
Tiny or smaller’ x1/2 x1/10 xl x1/10 
Small xl x1/2 x2 x1/2 
Medium xl xl x2 xl 
Large x2 x2 x4 x2 
Huge x4 x5 x8 x5 
Gargantuan x8 x8 x16 x8 
Colossal x16 x12 x32 x12 


1 Divide armor bonus by 2. 


1 minute (10 rounds), the armor would provide only a +3 bonus to 
his AC (instead of +4), and his armor check penalty would be —5 
(instead of —4). 

Remove: This column tells how long it takes to get the armor 
off (important to know if the wearer is suddenly submerged; see 
the drowning rules in the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Loosing a shield 
(removing it from the arm and dropping it) is only a move action. 


TABLE 7—7: DONNING ARMOR 


Remove 
1 move action 
1 minute! 


Don Don Hastily 
1 move action n/a 
1 minute 5 rounds 


Armor Type 
Shield (any) 
Padded, 
leather, hide, 
studded leather, 
or chain shirt 
Breastplate, 
scale mail, 
chainmail, 
banded mail, 
or splint mail 
Half-plate 
or full plate 
1 If the character has some help, cut this time in half. A single } 
character doing nothing else can help one or two adjacent characters. | 
Two characters can’t help each other don armor at the same time. —— | 
2 The wearer must have help to don this armor. Without help, it can | 
be donned only hastily. { 


4 minutes! 1 minute 1 minute! 


4 minutes? 4 minutes! 1d4+1 minutes! _ 


ARMOR DESCRIPTIONS i l 


The types of armor found on Table 7—6: Armor and Shields are 
described below (in alphabetical order), along with any special 
benefits they confer on the wearer (“you”). x 

Armor Spikes: You can have spikes added to your armor, 
which allow you to deal extra piercing damage (see Table 7—5: 

Weapons) on a successful grapple attack. The spikes count as a} 
{martial weapon. If you are not proficient with them, you take a —4 | 
[penalty on grapple checks when you try to use them. You can also 
make a regular melee attack (or off-hand attack) with the spikes, | 
Land they count as a light weapon in this case. (You can't also make | 
l an attack with armor spikes if you have already made an attack 
with another off-hand weapon, and vice versa.) 

An enhancement bonus to a suit of armor does not improve the 
spikes’ effectiveness, but the spikes can be made into magic 
weapons in their own right. 

Banded Mail: This armor is made of overlapping strips of 
metal sewn to a backing of leather and chainmail. The strips cover 
vulnerable areas, while the chain and leather protect the joints and 
[provide freedom of movement. Straps and buckles distribute the | 

weight evenly. The suit includes gauntlets. 

Breastplate: A breastplate covers your front and your back. It 
comes with a helmet and greaves (plates to cover your lower legs). 
A light suit or skirt of studded leather beneath the breastplate pro- 
tects your limbs without restricting movement much. 

Buckler: This small metal shield is worn strapped to your forearm. 
You can use a bow or crossbow without penalty while carrying it. You 

[can also use your shield arm to wield a weapon (whether you are 
lusing an off-hand weapon or using your off hand to help wield a two- 
| handed weapon), but you take a—1 penalty on attack rolls while doing 
_so because of the extra weight on your arm. This penalty stacks with 
ithose that may apply for fighting with your off hand and for fighting 
_with two weapons. In any case, if you use a weapon in your off hand, 
|you don't get the buckler’s AC bonus for the rest of the round. 


t 


Locked Gauntlet 
[Secures your weapon 
with chains—neverdrop 
your sword again!|- 


Shield 


t 


You can't bash someone with a buckler. =| 
Chain Shirt: A chain shirt protects your torso while leaving | 
your limbs free and mobile. It includes a layer of quilted fabric | 
worn underneath to prevent chafing and to cushion the impact of | 
blows. A chain shirt comes with a steel cap. 
_ Chainmail: This armor is made of interlocking metal rings. It 
Lincludes a layer of quilted fabric worn underneath to prevent chaf- 
ing and to cushion the impact of blows. Several layers of mail are 
hung over vital areas. Most of the armor’s weight hangs from the | 
_shoulders, making chainmail uncomfortable to wear for long peri- | 
lods of time. The suit includes gauntlets. Jo } 
Full Plate: This armor consists of shaped and fitted metal plates 
riveted and interlocked to cover the entire body. The suit includes 
gauntlets, heavy leather boots, a visored helmet, and a thick layer | 
of padding that is worn underneath the armor. Buckles and straps | 
distribute the weight over the body, so full plate hampers move- 
ment less than splint mail even though splint is lighter. Each suit 
lof full plate must be individually fitted to its owner by a master, 
jarmorsmith, although a captured suit can be resized to fit a new 
_owner at a cost of 200 to 800 (2d4x100) gold pieces. 
Full plate armor is also known as field plate. | 
Gauntlet, Locked: This armored gauntlet has small chains and | 
braces that allow the wearer to attach a weapon to the gauntlet so | 
that it cannot be dropped easily. It provides a +10 bonus on any roll 
made to keep from being disarmed in combat. Removing a 
weapon from a locked gauntlet or attaching a weapon to a locked | 
gauntlet is a full-round action that provokes attacks of opportu-| 
inity. The price given is for a single locked gauntlet. The weight | 
given applies only if you're wearing a breastplate, light armor, or | 
no armor. Otherwise, the locked gauntlet replaces a gauntlet you | 
already have as part of the armor. = ae | 
While the gauntlet is locked, you can't use the hand wearing it | 
for casting spells or employing skills. (You can still cast spells with | 
somatic components, provided that your other hand is free.) _ 


4- 


Buckler 
[Straps to your arm] 


Like a normal gauntlet, a locked gauntlet lets you deal lethal 
damage rather than nonlethal damage with an unarmed strike. 

Half-Plate: This armor is a combination of chainmail with metal 
plates (breastplate, epaulettes, elbow guards, gauntlets, tasses, and 
greaves) covering vital areas. Buckles and straps hold the whole suit | 
together and distribute the weight, but the armor still hangs more | 
loosely than full plate. The suit includes gauntlets. 

| Hide: This armor is prepared from multiple layers of PER 

Land animal hides. It is stiff and hard to move in. Druids, who wear} 
only nonmetallic armor, favor hide. 

Leather: The breastplate and shoulder protectors of this armor! 
Lare made of leather that has been stiffened by boiling in oil. The 
„test of the armor is made of softer and more flexible leather. 

Padded: Padded armor features quilted layers of cloth and bat- 
ting. It gets hot quickly and can become foul with sweat, grime, 
lice, and fleas. 

_ Scale Mail: This armor consists of a coat and leggings (and per- 
haps a separate skirt) of leather covered with overlapping pieces of 
metal, much like the scales of a fish. The suit includes gauntlets. | 

Shield, Heavy, Wooden or Steel: You strap a shield to your. 
forearm and grip it with your hand. A heavy shield is so heavy that | 
you can't use your shield hand for anything else. 

Wooden or Steel: Wooden and steel shields offer the same basic 
protection, though they respond differently to special attacks 
(such as warp wood and heat metal). 

Shield Bash Attacks: You can bash an opponent with a heavy shield, 
[using it as an off-hand weapon. See Table 7-5: Weapons for the 
_damage dealt by a shield bash. Used this way, a heavy shield is a mar- 

\tial bludgeoning weapon. For the purpose of penalties on attack 

f rolls, treat a heavy shield as a one-handed weapon. If you use your 
ishield as a weapon, you lose its AC bonus until your next action 
(usually until the next round). An enhancement bonus on a shield 
„does not improve the effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, but 
ithe shield can be made into a magic weapon in its own right. 


Shield, Light, Wooden or Steel: You strap a shield to your. 
forearm and grip it with your hand. A light shield’s weight lets you, 
carry other items in that hand, although you cannot use weapons | 
with it. be af 

_ Wooden or Steel: Wooden and steel shields offer the same basic 


| protection, though they respond differently to special attacks 


(such as warp wood and heat metal). 

Shield Bash Attacks: You can bash an opponent with a light 
shield, using it as an off-hand weapon. See Table 7-5: Weapons for , 
„the damage dealt by a shield bash. Used this way, a light shield is a| 

| martial bludgeoning weapon. For the purpose of penalties on] 
attack rolls, treat a light shield as a light weapon. If you use your 
shield as a weapon, you lose its AC bonus until your next action 
(usually until the next round). An enhancement bonus on a shield , 
does not improve the effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, | 
but the shield can be made into a magic weapon in its own right. 
| Shield, Tower: This massive wooden shield is nearly as tall as you 
lare. In most situations, it provides the indicated shield bonus to, 
your AC. However, you can instead use it as total cover, though you, 
¿must give up your attacks to do so. The shield does not, however, 
provide cover against targeted spells; a spellcaster can cast a spell on , 
you by targeting the shield you are holding. You cannot bash with a_ 
tower shield, nor can you use your shield hand for anything else. | 

When employing a tower shield in combat, you take a —2 
penalty on attack rolls because of the shield’s encumbrance._ 

Shield Spikes: When added to your shield, these spikes turn it. 
into a martial piercing weapon that increases the damage dealt by | 

Ja shield bash as if the shield were designed for a creature one size _ 
category larger than you (from 1d4 to 1dé, for instance), You can't | 
put spikes on a buckler or a tower shield. Otherwise, attacking | 
with a spiked shield is like making a shield bash attack (see above). | 
An enhancement bonus on a spiked shield does not improve th 
effectiveness of a shield bash made with it, but a spiked shield can | 
be made into a magic weapon in its own right. 


Scale Mail | 
Leather-Armor 
Padded Armor [Available Plain 
j Hide Arhar Chainmail 
Close-Up of 
Chainmail 
Close-Up of 
Scale Mail 


Chain Shirt 


t26 


Splint Mail: This armor is made of narrow vertical strips of metal 


riveted to a backing of leather that is worn over cloth padding. Flex- 
ible chainmail protects the joints. The suit includes gauntlets. 
Studded Leather: This armor is made from tough but flexible 


leather (not hardened leather, as with normal leather armor) rein- 


forced with close-set metal rivets. 


MASTERWORK ARMOR 


—+ 


+ 
+ 


\Just as with weapons, you can purchase or craft masterwork ver- | 
_sions of armor or shields. Such a well-made item functions like the | 
‘normal version, except that its armor check penalty is lessened by | 


|1. For example, a masterwork chain shirt has an armor check 
„penalty of -1 rather than -2. 

A masterwork suit of armor or shield costs an extra 150 gp over 
and above the normal cost for that type of armor or shield. A mas- 
terwork chain shirt would thus cost 250 gp. 

_ The masterwork quality of a suit of armor or shield never pro- 
¿vides a bonus on attack or damage rolls, even if the armor or shield 
is used as a weapon (such as spiked armor or a spiked shield). 


All magic armors and shields are automatically considered to be. 


of masterwork quality. 
You can't add the masterwork quality to armor or a shield after it 
is created; it must be crafted as a masterwork item. 


___ GOODS AND SERVICES 


LOf course, characters need more than just weapons and armor. 
{Table 7-8: Goods and Services provides costs and weights for 
dozens of other items, and costs for a variety of services that char- 
[acters can purchase. 


b- n 
ADVENTURING GEAR aa 
Adventurers face all sorts of challenges and difficulties, and the 
‘right gear can make the difference between a successful adventure 
‘and failure. Most of this gear is basic equipment that might come 
in handy regardless of a character’s skills or class. 


A few of the pieces of adventuring gear found on Table 7-8: , 


Goods and Services (page 128) are described below, along with any 


4 


special benefits they confer on the user (“you”). For objects with | 


hardness and hit points, see Smashing an Object, page 165. 

Backpack: A backpack is a leather pack carried on the back, 
typically with straps to secure it. 

Bedroll: You never know where you're going to sleep, and a 
bedroll helps you get better sleep in a hayloft or on the cold 
ground. A bedroll consists of bedding and a blanket thin enough to 
be rolled up and tied. In an emergency, it can double as a stretcher. 

Blanket, Winter: A thick, quilted, wool blanket made to keep 

„you warm in cold weather. 

__Caltrops: A caltrop is a four-pronged iron spike crafted so that 

Lone prong faces up no matter how the caltrop comes to rest. You 

_scatter caltrops on the ground in the hope that your enemies step 
on them or are at least forced to slow down to avoid them. One 2- 
pound bag of caltrops covers an area 5 feet square. 

Each time a creature moves into an area covered by caltrops (or 
spends a round fighting while standing in such an area), it might 
step on one. The caltrops make an attack roll (base attack bonus 
+0) against the creature. For this attack, the creature's shield, 
armor, and deflection bonuses do not count. (Deflection averts 
blows as they approach, but it does not prevent a creature from 

touching something dangerous.) If the creature is wearing shoes 
Lor other footwear, it gets a +2 armor bonus to AC. If the caltrops 
succeed on the attack, the creature has stepped on one. The caltrop 
Tiel 1 point of damage, and the creature’s speed is reduced by 
‘one-half because its foot is wounded. This movement penalty lasts 
for 24 hours, or until the creature is successfully treated with a DC 


| 
4 


+ 


15 Heal check, or until it receives at least 1 point of magical | 
curing. A charging or running creature must immediately stop if | 
f 


it steps on a caltrop. Any creature moving at half speed or slower. 
can pick its way through a bed of caltrops with no trouble. | 
The DM judges the effectiveness of caltrops against unusual | 
opponents. A Small monstrous centipede, for example, can slither | 
through an area containing caltrops with no chance of hurting 


_itself, and a fire giant wearing fire giant-sized boots is immune to 


\normal-size caltrops. (They just get stuck in the soles of his boots.) 
Candle: A candle dimly illuminates a 5-foot radius and burns 
for 1 hour. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 
Case, Map or Scroll: This capped leather or tin tube holds, 
[rolled pieces of parchment or paper. } 
Chain: Chain has hardness 10 and 5 hit points. _Itcan be burst 
with a DC 26 Strength check. = 
Crowbar: This iron bar is made for levering closed items open. | 
A crowbar is the perfect tool for prying open doors or chests, shat- | 
tering chains, and the like, and it grants a +2 circumstance bonus 
on Strength checks made for such purposes. If used in combat, 
| treat a crowbar as a one-handed improvised weapon (see page 113), 
jthat deals bludgeoning damage equal to that of a club of its size., 
Flask: This ceramic, glass, or metal container is fitted with a 
tight stopper and holds 1 pint of liquid. 
Flint and Steel: Striking steel and flint together creates sparks., 
By knocking sparks into tinder, you can create a small flame. 
Lighting a torch with flint and steel is a full-round action, and 
lighting any other fire with them takes at least that long. 
Grappling Hook: When tied to the end of a rope, a grappling 
hook can secure the rope to a battlement, window ledge, tree limb, or | 
other protrusion. Throwing a grappling hook successfully requires a4 
Use Rope check (DC 10, +2 per 10 feet of distance thrown). } 
Hammer: This one-handed hammer with an iron head is useful | 
for pounding pitons into a wall. Ifa hammer is used in combat, treat | 
it as a one-handed improvised weapon (see page 113) that deals | 
bludgeoning damage equal to that of a spiked gauntlet of its size. | 
Ink: This is black ink. You can buy ink in other colors, but it 
costs twice as much. — 
Inkpen: An inkpen is a wooden stick with a special tip on the 
end. The tip draws ink in when dipped in a vial and leaves an ink 
trail when drawn across a surface. 
Jug, Clay: This basic ceramic jug is fitted with a stopper and 
holds 1 gallon of liquid. 
Ladder, 10-foot: This item is a straight, simple wooden ladder. 
Lamp, Common: A lamp clearly illuminates a 15-foot radius, 
provides shadowy illumination out to a 30-foot radius, and burns for 
6 hours on a pint of oil. It burns with a more even flame than a torch, 
but, unlike a lantern, it uses an open flame and it can spill easily, a fact 
that makes it too dangerous for most adventuring. You can carry a 
lamp in one hand. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 
Lantern, Bullseye: A bullseye lantern has only a single shutter. 
Its other sides are highly polished inside to reflect the light in a 
single direction. A bullseye lantern provides clear illumination in 
a 60-foot cone and shadowy illumination in a 120-foot cone. It 
burns for 6 hours on a pint of oil. You can carry a bullseye lantern 
in one hand. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 
Lantern, Hooded: A hooded lantern has shuttered or hinged 
sides. It clearly illuminates a 30-foot radius and provides shadowy 
illumination in a 60-foot radius. It burns for 6 hours on a pint of 
oil. You can carry a hooded lantern in one hand. See page 164 for | 
more rules on illumination. 
Lock: A lock is worked with a large, bulky key. The DC to open aj 
lock with the Open Lock skill depends on the lock’s quality: simple | 
(DC 20), average (DC 25), good (DC 30), or superior (DC 40), — 
Manacles and Manacles, Masterwork: The manacles_ 
„detailed on Table 7-8: Goods and Services can bind a Medium 
‘creature. A manacled creature can use the Escape Artist skill to 
| slip free (DC 30, or DC 35 for masterwork manacles). Breaking the 
| manacles requires a Strength check (DC 26, or DC 28 for master- 
work manacles). Manacles have hardness 10 and 10 hit points. 


+ 


Most manacles have locks; add the cost of the lock you want to the 
cost of the manacles. 

For the same cost, you can buy manacles for a Small creature. 
For a Large creature, manacles cost ten times the indicated 
amount, and for a Huge creature, one hundred times this amount. 
Gargantuan, Colossal, Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine creatures can be 

held only by specially made manacles. 4 
| Mirror, Small Steel: A polished steel mirror is handy when, 

| you want to look around corners, signal friends with reflected sun- | 
light, keep an eye on a medusa, make sure that you look good) 

enough to present yourself to the queen, or examine wounds that | 

| you've received on hard-to-see parts of your body. 

Oil: A pint of oil burns for 6 hours in a lantern. You can use a 
flask of oil as a splash weapon (see Throw Splash Weapon, page 
158). Use the rules for alchemist’s fire, except that it takes a full- 
round action to prepare a flask with a fuse. Once it is thrown, there 

„is a 50% chance of the flask igniting successfully. 

You can pour a pint of oil on the ground to cover an area 5 feet 
| square, provided that the surface is smooth. If lit, the oil burns for} 
|2 rounds and deals 1d3 points of fire damage to each creature in | 
The area. | 

Paper: A sheet of standard paper is made from cloth fibers. 

Parchment: A sheet of parchment is a piece of goat hide or 
sheepskin that has been prepared for writing on. 

Piton: When a wall doesn’t offer handholds and footholds, you 
can make your own. A piton is a steel spike with an eye through 
which you can loop a rope. (See the Climb skill, page 69). 
| Pole, 10-foot: When you suspect a trap, you can put the end of 
[your 10-foot pole through that hole in the wall instead of reaching 
Lin with your hand. 
| Pouch, Belt: This leather pouch straps to your belt. It’s good for 

holding small items. 
, _ Ram, Portable: This iron-shod wooden beam is the he perfect tool 
for battering down a door. Not only does it give you a +2 circum- 


4- 


t 


Antitoxin 


Flask 


Vial 


i i 


@ 


Alchemist’s 


Tindertwigs , 


Do 


Holy Water 


Wizard’s 
spellbook 


Maps or Scrolls 


stance bonus on Strength checks made to break open a door, but it. 
allows a second person to help you without having to roll, increas-| 
ing your bonus by 2 (see Breaking Items, page 167). it 

Rations, Trail: Trail rations are compact, dry, high-energy foods] 

isuitable for travel, such as jerky, dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. 
| Rope, Hempen: This rope has 2 hit points and can be burst 
with a DC 23 Strength check. 

Rope, Silk: This rope has 4 hit points and can be burst with a 
DC 24 Strength check. It is so supple that it provides a +2 circum- , 
„stance bonus on Use Rope checks. 1 

| Sack: This item is made of burlap or a similar material and has al 
drawstring so it can be closed. = 

Signet Ring: Each signet ring has a distinctive des design carved. 
into it. When you press this ring into warm sealing wax, you leave , 
an identifying mark. = 

Sledge: This two-handed, iron-headed hammer is good for 
smashing open treasure chests. 

| _ Spyglass: Objects viewed through a spyglass are magnified to. 
\ twice their size. _ j 
| Tent: This simple tent sleeps two. 

Torch: A typical torch is a wooden rod capped with twisted flax , 
soaked in tallow. A torch burns for 1 hour, clearly illuminating a 
20-foot radius and providing shadowy illumination out to a 40- 
foot radius. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. If a torch 
is used in combat, treat it as a one-handed improvised weapon (see 
page 113) that deals bludgeoning damage equal to that of a gaunt- 
let of its size, plus 1 point of fire damage. 

Vial: This ceramic, glass, or metal vial is fitted with a tight sto stop- | 

per and holds 1 ounce of liquid. The stoppered container usually i is | 
no more than 1 inch wide and 3 inches high. 

Waterskin: A waterskin is a leather pouch with a narrow r neck | J 
that is used for holding water. sea 


— 


Smokesticks 


Thieves’ Tools 


N 


Common Lamp 


128 


TABLE 7—8: GOODS AND SERVICES 


SPECIAL SUBSTANCES AND ITEMS _ 


These special substances are prized by adventurers. Any of them 
except for the everburning torch and holy water can be made by a 
character with the Craft (alchemy) skill (page 70). 

Acid: You can throw a flask of acid as a splash weapon (see, 
Throw Splash Weapon, page 158). Treat this attack as a ranged | 
‚touch attack with a range increment of 10 feet. A direct hit deals | 
\idé points of acid damage. Every creature within 5 feet of the point | 
where the acid hits takes 1 point of acid damage from the splash. | 

Alchemist’s Fire: Alchemist’s fire is a sticky, adhesive sub- | 
[stance that ignites when exposed to air. You can throw a flask of | 
\alchemist’s fire as a splash weapon (see Throw Splash Weapon, 
‚page 158). Treat this attack as a ranged touch attack with a range 
increment of 10 feet. : 

A direct hit deals 1d6 points of fire damage. Every creature 
within 5 feet of the point where the flask hits takes 1 point of fire 
‚damage from the splash. On the round following a direct hit, the 
¿target takes an additional 1d6 points of damage. If desired, the | 
‚target can use a full-round action to attempt to extinguish the | 
(flames before taking this additional damage. Extinguishing the, 
flames requires a DC 15 Reflex save. Rolling on the ground pro- | 
vides the target a +2 bonus on the save. Leaping into a lake or mag- 
ically extinguishing the flames automatically smothers the fire. 

Antitoxin: If you drink antitoxin, you get a +5 alchemical 
bonus on Fortitude saving throws against poison for 1 hour. 

Everburning Torch: This otherwise normal torch has a contin- 
Lual flame spell cast upon it. An everburning torch clearly illumi- 
| nates a 20-foot radius and provides shadowy illumination out to a 
|40-foot radius. See page 164 for more rules on illumination. 


Average 
Good 

ADVENTURING GEAR Amazing 

Item Cost Weight Manacles 

Backpack (empty) 2 gp 2 |b.! Manacles, masterwork 

Barrel (empty) 2 gp 301b. { Mirror, small steel 

Basket (empty) 4 sp 1 Ib. Mug/Tankard, clay 

Bedroll lsp 5 |b.! Oil (1-pint flask) 

Bell 1 gp — Paper (sheet) 

Blanket, winter 5 sp 3 ib Parchment (sheet) 

‘Block and tackle 5 gp 5 |b. Pick, miner’s 

Bottle, wine, glass 2 gp — Pitcher, clay 

‚Bucket (empty) 5 sp 2 |b. Piton 

\Caltrops 1gp 2 |b. Pole, 10-foot 

‘Candle 1 cp — Pot, iron 

Canvas (sq. yd.) 1 sp 1 Ib. Pouch, belt (empty) 

Case, map or scroll 1gp 1/2 lb. Ram, portable 

Chain (10 ft.) 30 gp 2 Ib. Rations, trail (per day) 

Chalk, 1 piece lcp — Rope, hempen (50 ft.) 

Chest (empty) 2 gp 25 lb. Rope, silk (50 ft.) 

Crowbar 2 gp 5 Ib. Sack (empty) 

Firewood (per day) lcp 20 Ib. Sealing wax 

Fishhook 1 sp — Sewing needle 

Fishing net, 25 sq. ft. 4 gp 5 lb. Signal whistle 

Flask (empty) 3 cp 1-1/2 |b. Signet ring 

[Flint and steel 1gp — Sledge 

Grappling hook 1gp 4 Ib. Soap (per lb.) 

Hammer 5 sp 2 Ib. Spade or shovel 

Ink (1 oz. vial) 8 gp — Spyglass 

Inkpen 1 sp = Tent 

Jug, clay 3cp 9 |b. Torch 

Ladder, 10-foot 5 cp 20 |b. Vial, ink or potion 

Lamp, common 1 sp 1 Ib. Waterskin 

Lantern, bullseye 12 gp 3 Ib. Whetstone 

Lantern, hooded 7 gp 2 |b. 

Lock 1 Ib. 

Very simple 20 gp 1 Ib. 


Holy Water: Holy water damages undead creatures and evil out- , 
siders almost as if it were acid. A flask of holy water can be thrown as | 
a splash weapon (see Throw Splash Weapon, page 158). Treat this | 
attack as a ranged touch attack with a range increment of 10 feet. A | 


| flask breaks if thrown against the body of a corporeal creature, but to 
luse it against an incorporeal creature, you must open the flask and 
pour the holy water out onto the target. Thus, you can douse an incor- 

poreal creature with holy water only if you are adjacent to it. Doing so 


is a ranged touch attack that does not provoke attacks of opportunity... 
A direct hit by a flask of holy water deals 2d4 points of damage to , 
an undead creature or an evil outsider. Each such creature within 5_ 


feet of the point where the flask hits takes 1 point of damage from 
the splash. 


Temples to good deities sell holy water at cost (making no profit), 
because the clerics are happy to supply people with what they need | 


to battle evil. 
Smokestick: This alchemically treated wooden stick instantly 


icreates thick, opaque smoke when ignited. The smoke fills a 10-. 
\foot cube (treat the effect as a fog cloud spell, except that a moderate , 


or stronger wind dissipates the smoke in 1 round). The stick is 
consumed after 1 round, and the smoke dissipates naturally. 


Sunrod: This 1-foot-long, gold-tipped, iron rod glows brightly, 


when struck. It clearly illuminates a 30-foot radius and provides 
shadowy illumination in a 60-foot radius. It glows for 6 hours, 
after which the gold tip is burned out and worthless. See page 164 
for more rules on illumination. 


Tanglefoot Bag: This round leather bag is full of alchemical goo. | 


| When you throw a tanglefoot bag at a creature (as a ranged touch 


+ 


attack with a range increment of 10 feet), the bag comes apart and | 


40 gp 1lb.. SPECIAL SUBSTANCES AND ITEMS 
80 gp 1 Ib. Item Cost Weight 
150 gp 1 Ib. Acid (flask) 10 gp 1 lb. 
15 gp 2 |b. Alchemist’s fire (flask) 20 gp 1 Ib. 
50 gp 2 |b. Antitoxin (vial) 50 gp — 
10 gp 1/2 Ib. Everburning torch 110 gp 1 Ib. 
2 cp 11b. Holy water (flask) 25 gp 1 lb. 
1 sp 1 lb. Smokestick 20 gp 1/2 lb. 
4 sp — Sunrod 2 gp 1 lb. 
2 sp — Tanglefoot bag 50 gp 4 |b. 
3 gp 10 Ib. Thunderstone 30 gp 1 Ib. 
2 cp 5 |b. Tindertwig 1 gp — 
1 sp 1/2 Ib. | | 
2 sp 8lb. TOOLS AND SKILL KITS 
5 sp 10 Ib. Item Cost Weight 
1 gp 1/2 |b." Alchemist’s lab 500 gp 40 Ib. 
10 gp 20 Ib. Artisan’s tools 5 gp 5 Ib. 
5 sp 1 |b." Artisan’s tools, 55 gp 5 Ib. 
l gp 10 Ib. masterwork 
10 gp 5 Ib. Climber’s kit 80 gp 5 Ib." 
lsp 1/2 lb.' Disguise kit 50 gp 8 lb.! | 
1 gp 1 |b. Healer’s kit 50 gp 1 Ib. 
5 sp — Holly and mistletoe — — 
8 sp = Holy symbol, wooden _1 gp — 
5 gp — Holy symbol, silver 25 gp Tb. 
1 gp 10 Ib Hourglass 25 gp 1 Ib. 
5 sp 1 lb. Magnifying glass 100 gp — 
2 gp 8 Ib. Musical instrument, 5 gp 3 Ib." 
1,000 gp 1 Ib. common 
10 gp 20 |b." Musical instrument, 100 gp 3 |b. 
1 cp 1 Ib. masterwork 
1gp 1/10 Ib. Scale, merchant’s 2 gp 1 Ib. 
1gp 4 Ib.? Spell component 5 gp 2 lb. 
2 cp 1 Ib. pouch 

Spellbook, wizard’s 15 gp 3 Ib. 

(blank) 
Thieves’ tools 30 gp 1 Ib. 


the goo bursts out, entangling the target and then becoming tough 
and resilient upon exposure to air. An entangled creature takes a —2 
penalty on attack rolls and a —4 penalty to Dexterity and must make 
a DC 15 Reflex save or be glued to the floor, unable to move. Even 


on a successful save, it can move only at half speed. Huge or larger, 
creatures are unaffected by a tanglefoot bag. A flying creature is not | 
_stuck to the floor, but it must make a DC 15 Reflex save or be. 


\unable to fly (assuming it uses its wings to fly) and fall to the, 
| ground. A tanglefoot bag does not function underwater. 


A creature that is glued to the floor (or unable to fly) can break free} 


by making a DC 17 Strength check or by dealing 15 points of damage | 
| to the goo with a slashing weapon. A creature trying to scrape goo off 
itself, or another creature assisting, does not need to make an attack 


roll; hitting the goo is automatic, after which the creature that hit 
makes a damage roll to see how much of the goo was scraped off. Once 
free, the creature can move (including flying) at half speed. A charac- 


_ter capable of spellcasting who is bound by the goo must make a DC 15 


¿Concentration check to cast a spell. The goo becomes brittle and frag- | 
ile after 2d4 rounds, cracking apart and losing its effectiveness. An | 
application of universal solvent (see page 268 of the Dungeon Master's. 


+ 


Guide) to a stuck creature dissolves the alchemical goo immediately. , 
Thunderstone: You can throw this stone as a ranged attack 
with a range increment of 20 feet. When it strikes a hard surface 
(or is struck hard), it creates a deafening bang that is treated as a 
sonic attack. Each creature within a 10-foot-radius spread must 
make a DC 15 Fortitude save or be deafened for 1 hour. A deafened 


creature, in addition to the obvious effects, takes a —4 penalty on 


+ 


initiative and has a 20% chance to miscast and lose any spell with a 
y Sp 


| verbal component that it tries to cast. 


2 |b. . Wine 


lighting any other fire with one is at least a standard action. 


TOOLS AND SKILL KITS 


Since you don't need to hit a specific target, you can simply aim , 
at a particular 5-foot square. Treat the target square as AC 5; if you} 
miss, see Throw Splash Weapon, page 158, to determine where the | 
thunderstone lands. 

Tindertwig: The alchemical substance on the end of this aa 


wooden stick ignites when struck against a rough surface. Creating a 
‚flame with a tindertwig is much faster than creating a flame with flint 


and steel (or a magnifying glass) and tinder. Lighting a torch with a 
tindertwig is a standard action (rather than a full-round action), and , 


t 


This equipment is particularly useful if you have certain skills or 

are of a certain class. . i 
Alchemist’s Lab: This set of equipment includes beakers, bot- | 

tles, mixing and measuring containers, and a miscellany of chem- 


Licals and substances. An alchemist’s lab always has the perfect tool 
for making alchemical items, so it provides a +2 circumstance, 
{bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks. It has no bearing on the costs, 
irelated to the Craft (alchemy) skill (page 70). Without this lab, a 


character with the Craft (alchemy) skill is assumed to have 
enough tools to use the skill but not enough to get the +2 bonus | 
that the lab provides. 


Artisan’s Tools: These special tools include the items needed 


use improvised tools (—2 penalty on Craft checks), if you can do 
the job at all. 


Artisan’s Tools, Masterwork: These tools serve the same pur-_ 
pose as artisan’s tools (above), but masterwork artisan’s tools are 


+ 
+ 
+ 


Thieves’ tools, 100 gp Keelboat 3,000 gp — 
masterwork Common (pitcher) 2 sp 6 |b. , Longship 10,000 gp — 
Tool, masterwork 50 gp 1 Ib. Fine (bottle) 10 gp 1-1/2 Ib. Rowboat 50 gp 100 Ib. 
Water clock 1,000 gp 200 Ib. . Oar 2 gp 10 Ib. 
MOUNTS AND RELATED GEAR | Sailing ship 10,000 gp — 
CLOTHING | Item Cost Weight Sled 20 gp 300 Ib. 
Item Cost Weight | Barding Wagon 35 gp 400 Ib. 
Artisan’s outfit 1 gp 4 |b.! Medium creature x2 xl Warship 25,000 gp — 
Cleric’s vestments 5gp 6 |b." Large creature x4 x2 
Cold weather outfit 8 gp 7 Ib. Bit and bridle 2 gp 1lb. SPELLCASTING AND SERVICES 
Courtier’s outfit 30 gp 6 |b." Dog, guard 25 gp — Service Cost 
_Entertainer’s outfit 3 gp 4 |b." Dog, riding 150 gp = Coach cab 3 cp per mile 
(Explorer's outfit 10 gp 8 |b." Donkey or mule 8 gp — Hireling, trained 3 sp per day 
Monk's outfit 5 gp 2BU Feed (per day) 5 cp 10 |b Hireling, untrained 1 sp per day 
[Noble's outfit 75 gp 10 Ib." Horse Messenger 2 cp per mile 
Peasant’s outfit 1 sp 2 |b.! Horse, heavy 200 gp — Road or gate toll 1 cp 
Royal outfit 200 gp 15 |b." Horse, light 75 gp — Ship’s passage 1 sp per mile 
Scholar’s outfit 5 gp 6 |b. Pony 30 gp — Spell, 0-level Caster level x 5 gp? 
Traveler's outfit 1gp 5 |b." Warhorse, heavy 400 gp — Spell, 1st-level Caster level x 10 gp? 
Warhorse, light 150 gp — Spell, 2nd-level Caster level x 20 gp? 
Foop, DRINK, AND LODGING Warpony 100 gp — Spell, 3rd-level Caster level x 30 gp? 
Item Cost Weight Saddle Spell, 4th-level Caster level x 40 gp? 
Ale Military 20 gp 30 Ib Spell, 5th-level Caster level x 50 gp? 
Gallon 2 sp 8 Ib. Pack 5 gp 15 lb Spell, 6th-level Caster level x 60 gp? 
Mug 4cp 1 Ib. Riding 10 gp 25 |b Spell, 7th-level Caster level x 70 gp? 
Banquet (per person) 10 gp — Saddle, Exotic Spell, 8th-level Caster level x 80 gp? 
Bread, per loaf 2cp 1/2 |b Military 60 gp 40 Ib Spell, 9th-level Caster level x 90 gp? 
Cheese, hunk of 1 sp 1/2 lb Pack 15 gp 20 Ib 
Inn stay (per day) Riding 30 gp 30 |b. — No weight, or no weight worth noting. 
Good 2 gp — Saddlebags 4 gp 8 Ib. 1 These items weigh one-quarter this 
Common 5 sp — Stabling (per day) 5 sp amount when made for Small characters. 
Poor 2 sp — Containers for Small characters also carry 
Meals (per day) TRANSPORT one-quarter the normal amount. 
Good 5 sp == Item Cost Weight 2 See spell description for additional costs. If 
Common 3 sp = Carriage 100 gp 600 |b the additional costs put the spell’s total cost 
Poor lsp = Cart 15 gp 200 Ib above 3,000 gp, that spell is not generally 
Meat, chunk of 3 sp 1/2 |b Galley 30,000 gp — available except by the DM's permission. 


| 


the perfect tools for the job, so you get +2 circumstan nuson 
Craft checks made with them. 

Climber’s Kit: A climber's kit includes special pitons, boot tips, 
gloves, and a harness that aids in all sorts of climbing. This is the 
perfect tool for climbing and gives you a +2 circumstance bonus | 
on Climb checks. a 

! Disguise Kit: This bag contains cosmetics, hair dye, and small | 
(physical props. The kit is the perfect tool for disguise and onde | 

la +2 circumstance bonus on Disguise checks. A disguise kit is | 
_exhausted after ten uses. { 
Healer’s Kit: This kit is full of herbs, salves, bandages and other | 
[useful materials. It is the perfect tool for healing and provides a +2 
[circumstance bonus on Heal checks. A healer’s kit is exhausted 
after ten uses. == 

Holly and Mistletoe: Sprigs of holly and mistletoe are used by 
druids as the default divine focus for druid spells. Druids can 

_easily find these plants in wooded areas and then harvest sprigs 


from them essentially for free. 1 


_Holy Symbol, Silver or Wooden: A holy symbol focuses posi- 
tive energy. A cleric or paladin uses it as the focus for his spells and | 
as a tool for turning undead. Each religion has its own holy, 
symbol, and a sun symbol is the default holy symbol for clerics not 
associated with any particular religion. 

A silver holy symbol works no better than a wooden one, but it 

serves as a mark of status for the wielder. 

Unholy Symbols: An unholy symbol is like a holy symbol except 

that it focuses negative energy and is used by evil clerics (or by 
[neutral clerics who want to cast evil spells or command undead). 
LA skull is the default unholy symbol for clerics not associated with 
[any particular religion. 

Magnifying Glass: This simple lens allows a closer look at small 
Lobjects. It is also useful as a substitute for flint and steel when starting 
fires. Lighting a fire with a magnifying glass requires light as bright as 
\sunlight to focus, tinder to ignite, and at least a full-round action. A 


Grappling Hook 
and a Rape 


ar ee ’ Kit 
(Harness and gloves 
not shown| 


I0 in per 


magnifying glass grants a +2 circumstance bonus on Appraise checks , 
involving any item that is small or highly detailed, such as a gem. | 
Musical Instrument, Common or Masterwork: Popular | 


instruments include the fife, recorder, lute, mandolin, and shawm. | 
_A masterwork instrument grants a +2 circumstance bonus on Per- 


_form checks involving its use and serves as a mark of status. 


Scale, Merchant’s: This scale includes a small balance and 
pans, plus a suitable assortment of weights. A scale grants a +2 cir- 
cumstance bonus on Appraise checks involving items that are, 
valued by weight, including anything made of precious metals. 

Spell Component Pouch: This small, watertight leather belt | 
pouch has many compartments. A spellcaster with a spell component 
pouch is assumed to have all the material components and focuses 
needed for spellcasting, except for those components that have a spe- , 
cific cost, divine focuses, and focuses that wouldn't fit in a pouch | 
(such as the natural pool that a druid needs to look into to cast scrying). 

__ Spellbook, Wizard's (Blank): This large, leatherbound book 


iserves as a wizard’s reference. A spellbook has 100 pages of parch- , 


? 


ment, and each spell takes up one page per spell level (one page, 
_each for 0-level spells). See Space in the Spellbook, page 179. 


Thieves’ Tools: This kit contains the tools you need to use the , 
Disable Device and Open Lock skills. The kit includes one or more | 
skeleton keys, long metal picks and pries, a long-nosed clamp, a 
small hand saw, and a small wedge and hammer. Without these 
tools, you must improvise tools, and you take a —2 circumstance 
penalty on Disable Device and Open Locks checks. —_ 

Thieves’ Tools, Masterwork: This kit contains extra tools and | 

itools of better make, which grant a +2 circumstance bonus on Dis- | + 
able Device and Open Lock checks. 

Tool, Masterwork: This well-made item is the perfect tool for | 
the job. It grants a +2 circumstance bonus on a related skill check (if | 
any). Some examples of this sort of item from on Table 7-8 include | 
masterwork artisan’s tools, masterwork thieves’ tools, disguise kit, 
climber's kit, healer’s kit, and masterwork musical instrument. This 


Manacles 
O [Masterwork] 


entry covers just about anything else. Bonuses provided by multiple 
masterwork items used toward the same skill check do not stack, so 
masterwork pitons and a masterwork climber’s kit do not provide a 
+4 bonus if used together on a Climb check. 

Water Clock: This large, bulky contrivance gives the time accu- | 
rate to within half an hour per day since it was last set. It requires} 


_asource of water, and it must be kept still because it marks time by. 
ithe regulated flow of droplets of water. It is primarily an amuse- 
iment for the wealthy and a tool for the student of arcane lore. 
¿Most people have no way to tell exact time, and there's little point. 
Lin knowing that it is 2:30 pm. if nobody else does. 


q 


Different characters may want different outfits for various occa- 
sions. A beginning character is assumed to have an artisan’s, enter- 
tainer’s, explorer’s, monk’s, peasant’s, scholar’s, or traveler's outfit. 


‚This first outfit is free and does not count against the amount of 


weight a character can carry. 


+ 


$ 
Artisan’s Outfit: This outfit includes a shirt with buttons, a} 


_skirt or pants with a drawstring, shoes, and perhaps a cap or hat. It. 


may also include a belt or a leather or cloth apron for carrying tools. , 
Cleric’s Vestments: These ecclesiastical clothes are for per- 
forming priestly functions, not for adventuring. 
Cold Weather Outfit: A cold weather outfit includes a wool 
coat, linen shirt, wool cap, heavy cloak, thick pants or skirt, and 
boots. This outfit grants a +5 circumstance bonus on Fortitude 


saving throws against exposure to cold weather (see the Dungeon 
| Master’s Guide for information on cold dangers). _ 


+ 


Courtier’s Outfit: This outfit includes fancy, tailored clothes 


Lin whatever fashion happens to be the current style in the courts 
Lof the nobles. Anyone trying to influence nobles or courtiers 
while wearing street dress will have a hard time of it (-2 penalty 
_on Charisma-based skill checks to influence such individuals). If 


lyou wear this outfit without jewelry (costing an additional 50 gp), 
you look like an out-of-place commoner. 

Entertainer’s Outfit: This set of flashy, perhaps eve even gaudy, 
clothes is for entertaining. While the outfit looks whimsical, its. 


practical design lets you tumble, dance, walk a tightrope, or just. 


run (if the audience turns ugly). A 


Explorer’s Outfit: This is a full set of clothes for someone 1e who | 


never knows what to expect. It includes sturdy boots, leather. 
breeches or a skirt, a belt, a shirt (perhaps with a vest or jacket), 
gloves, and a cloak. Rather than a leather skirt, a leather overtunic 
may be worn over a cloth skirt. The clothes have plenty of pockets 
(especially the cloak). The outfit also includes any extra items you 
might need, such as a scarf or a wide-brimmed hat. 

Monk’s Outfit: This simple outfit includes sandals, loose 


„breeches, and a loose shirt, and is all bound together with sashes. The 
outfit is designed to give you maximum mobility, and it’s made of 
high-quality fabric. You can hide small weapons in pockets hidden in 
_the folds, and the sashes are strong enough to serve as short ropes. 


Noble’s Outfit: This set of clothes is designed specifically to be 
expensive and to show it. Precious metals and gems are worked 
into the clothing. To fit into the noble crowd, every would-be 
noble also needs a signet ring (see Adventuring Gear, above) and 
jewelry (worth at least 100 gp). 

Peasant’s Outfit: This set of clothes consists of a loose shirt and 
baggy breeches, or a loose shirt and skirt or overdress. Cloth wrap- 
pings are used for shoes. 

Royal Outfit: This is just the clothing, not the royal scepter, 


crown, ring, and other accoutrements. Royal clothes are ostenta- 


f 


tious, with gems, gold, silk, and fur in abundance. 


| Scholar’s Outfit: Perfect for a scholar, this outfit includes a 


| robe, a belt, a cap, soft shoes, and possibly a cloak. 


Traveler’s Outfit: This set of clothes consists of boots, a wool 
skirt or breeches, a sturdy belt, a shirt (perhaps with a vest or! 
jacket), and an ample cloak with a hood. 


+ 


FOOD, DRINK, AND LODGING 


Many. RRA are lodged by guilds, churches, family, or nobility.. } 
Adventurers, however, typically pay for hospitality. 
Inn: Poor accommodations at an inn amount to a place on thel | 


_floor near the hearth, plus the use of a blanket if the innkeeper 
likes you and you're not worried about fleas. Common accommo- 
| dations consist of a place ona raised, heated floor, the use of a blan- 


ket and a pillow, and the presence of a higher class of company. 
Good accommodations consist of a small, private room with one, 


_bed, some amenities, and a covered chamber pot in the corner. } 


Meals: Poor meals might be composed of bread, baked turnips, | 
onions, and water. Common meals might consist of bread, 
chicken stew (easy on the chicken), carrots, and watered-down ale 
or wine. Good meals might be composed of bread and pastries, , 
beef, peas, and ale or wine. | 


MOUNTS AND RELATED GEAR 


¿Horses and other mounts let you travel faster and more easily., 


Barding, Medium Creature and Large Creature: Barding isa, 


_type of armor that covers the head, neck, chest, body, and possibly 


legs of a horse or other mount. Barding made of medium or heavy , 
armor provides better protection than light barding, but at the. 
expense of speed. Barding can be made of any of the armor types 
found on Table 7—6: Armor and Shields. 

Armor for a horse (a Large nonhumanoid creature) costs four 
times as much as armor for a human (a Medium humanoid crea- 
ae and also weighs twice as much as the armor found on Table | 


the weight is the same as for Medium armor worn by a humanoid. | 
Medium or heavy barding slows a mount that wears it, as shown | 


on the table below. ___ nne 
+ 
Base Speed 
Barding (40 ft.) (50 ft.) (60 ft.) ——— 
Medium 30 ft. Sint 40 ft. 
Heavy 30 ft! 35.ft.! 40 ft. —_ 


1 A mount wearing heavy armor moves at only triple its normal speed 
when running instead of quadruple. 


Flying mounts can't fly in medium or heavy barding. 

Barded animals require special attention. You must take care to 
prevent chafing and sores caused by the armor. The armor must be 
removed at night and ideally should not be put on the mount except 
to prepare for a battle. Removing and fitting barding takes five times 
as long as the figures given on Table 7-7: Donning Armor. A barded 
animal cannot be used to carry any load other than the rider and 
normal saddlebags. Because of this limitation, a mounted warrior 
often leads a second mount loaded with gear and supplies. 

Dog, Riding: This Medium dog is specially trained to carry a 
Small humanoid rider. It is brave in combat like a warhorse. You 
take no damage when you fall from a riding dog. (See the Monster 
Manual for more information on riding dogs.) 

Donkey or Mule: The best kinds of pack animals around, don- 
keys and mules are stolid in the face of danger, hardy, surefooted, 
and capable of carrying heavy loads over vast distances. Unlike a 
horse, a donkey or a mule is willing (though not eager) to enter dun- | 
geons and other strange or threatening places. (See the Monster | 
Manual for more information on donkeys and mules.)_ ental 

Feed: Horses, donkeys, mules, and ponies can graze to sustain | 


themselves, but providing feed for them (such as oats) is much) 
better because it provides a more concentrated form of energy, L 


especially if the animal is exerting itself. If you have a riding dog, | 


‘you have to feed it at least some meat, which may cost more or less | 
| than the given amount. 


Horse: The horse is the best all-around work animal and mount in 
common use. A horse (other than a pony) is suitable as a mount for a 


P3 


human, dwarf, elf, half-elf, or half-orc. A pony is smaller than a horse 
and is a suitable mount for a gnome or halfling. (See the Monster 
Manual for more information on horses and ponies.) 

Warhorses and warponies can be ridden easily into combat. Light 
horses, ponies, and heavy horses are hard to control in combat (see, 
Mounted Combat, page 157, and the Ride skill, page 80). 


Saddle, Exotic: An exotic saddle is like a normal saddle of the | 


[same sort except that it is designed for an unusual mount, such as a | 
[hippogriff. Exotic saddles come in military, pack, and riding styles. | 
___ Saddle, Military: A military saddle braces the rider, providing a +2 | 
(circumstance bonus on Ride checks related to staying in the saddle. If, | 
[you're knocked unconscious while in a military saddle, you have a 
75% chance to stay in the saddle (compared to 50% for a riding saddle). 
Saddle, Pack: A pack saddle holds gear and supplies, but not a 
rider. It holds as much gear as the mount can carry. (The Monster 
Manual has notes on how much mounts can carry.) 
_. Saddle, Riding: The standard riding saddle supports a rider. 


į Stabling: Includes a stable, feed, and grooming. + 
4 


TRANSPORT | 
If you can't go where you need to by horse—whether because of | 
excess gear or distance—you'll need some other form of transport. 

Carriage: This four-wheeled vehicle can transport as many as 
four people within an enclosed cab, plus two drivers. In general, 
two horses (or other beasts of burden) draw it. A carriage comes 
with the harness needed to pull it. 

_ Cart: This two-wheeled vehicle can be drawn by a single horse 

(or other beast of burden). It comes with a harness. 


| Galley: This three-masted ship has seventy oars on either side 


[and requires a total crew of 200. A galley is 130 feet long and 20 feet 

wide, and it can carry 150 tons of cargo or 250 soldiers. For 8,000 gp 

| more, it can be fitted with a ram and castles with firing platforms 

fore, aft, and amidships. This ship cannot make sea voyages and 
\sticks to the coast. It moves about 4 miles per hour when being 
‘rowed or under sail. 

Keelboat: This 50- to 75-foot-long ship is 15 to 20 feet wide and 
has a few oars to supplement its single mast with a square sail. It 
has a crew of eight to fifteen and can carry 40 to 50 tons of cargo or. 
100 soldiers. It can make sea voyages, as well as sail down rivers 1 
(thanks to its flat bottom). It moves about 1 mile per hour. ase | 

Longship: This 75-foot-long ship with forty oars requires a total | 
crew of 50. It has a single mast and a square sail, and it can carry 50 
tons of cargo or 120 soldiers. A longship can make sea voyages. It 
moves about 3 miles per hour when being rowed or under sail. 

Rowboat: This 8- to 12-foot-long boat holds two or three 
Medium passengers. It moves about 1-1/2 miles per hour. 

Sailing Ship: This larger, seaworthy ship is 75 to 90 feet long 
and 20 feet wide and has a crew of 20. It can carry 150 tons of 
“cargo. It has square sails on its two masts and can make sea voy- 
Lages. It moves about 2 miles per hour. 

___ Sled: This is a wagon on runners for moving through snow and 
over ice. In general, two horses (or other beasts of burden) draw it. 
A sled comes with the harness needed to pull it. 

Wagon: This is a four-wheeled, open vehicle for transporting 
heavy loads. In general, two horses (or other beasts of burden) 
draw it. A wagon comes with the harness needed to pull it. 

Warship: This 100-foot-long ship has a single mast, although 
oars can also propel it. It has a crew of 60 to 80 rowers. This ship can 
carry 160 soldiers, but not for long distances, since there isn't room 

‚for supplies to support that many people. The warship cannot 

make sea voyages and sticks to the coast. It is not used for cargo. It 

moves about 2-1/2 miles per hour when being rowed or under sail. 


SPELLCASTING AND SERVICES 


Sometimes the best solution for a problem is to hire someone else 
to take care of it. Since the characters are adventurers, such a solu- | 
tion should be the exception rather than the rule, but there will | 


come times when the PCs prefer to pay someone else to handle, 
something, whether that something is to deliver a message, cast a. 
spell, or ferry them across the sea. | 

Coach Cab: The price given is for a ride in a coach that trans- 

| ports people (and light cargo) between towns. For a ride in a cab 
|that transports passengers within a city, 1 copper piece usually 
\takes you anywhere you need to go. 
Hireling, Trained: The amount given is the typical daily wage 
for mercenary warriors, masons, craftsmen, scribes, teamsters, and | 
„other trained hirelings. This value represents a minimum wage; 
| many such hirelings require significantly higher pay (see the Dun- | 
geon Master’s Guide for more details). = 

Hireling, Untrained: The amount shown is the ty typical daily 
wage for laborers, porters, cooks, maids, and other menial workers. , 

Messenger: This entry includes horse-riding messengers and | 
runners. Those willing to carry a message to a place they were 
going anyway (a crew member ona ship, for example) may ask for 
Jonly half the indicated amount. 

| Road or Gate Toll: A toll is sometimes charged to cross a well: 

trodden, well-kept, and well-guarded road to pay for patrols on it 
and for its upkeep. Occasionally, a large walled city charges a toll 
to enter or exit (or sometimes just to enter). 

Ship's Passage: Most ships do not specialize in passengers, but | 
many have the capability to take a few along when transporting 
cargo. Double the given cost for creatures larger than Medium or 
creatures that are otherwise difficult to bring aboard a ship. 

Spell: The indicated amount is how much it costs to get a spell- | 

_caster to cast a spell for you. This cost assumes that you can go to | 
the spellcaster and have the spell cast at his or her convenience | 
(generally at least 24 hours later, so that the spellcaster has time to_ 
prepare the spell in question). If you want to bring the spellcaster_ 
somewhere to cast a spell, such as into a dungeon to cast knock on | 
a secret door that you can't open, you need to negotiate with him | 
or her, and the default answer is no. 

The cost given is for a spell with no cost for a material component 
or focus component and no XP cost. If the spell includes a material 
component, add the cost of that component to the cost of the spell. 
If the spell has a focus component (other than a divine focus), add 
1/10 the cost of that focus to the cost of the spell. If the spell has an 
XP cost, add 5 gp per XP lost. For instance, to get a 9th-level cleric to 
cast commune for you, you need to pay 450 gp for a Sth-level spell at 
caster level 9th, plus 500 gp for the 100 XP loss that the caster suf 
fers, plus 25 gp for the holy water, for a total of 975 gp. 

Furthermore, if a spell has dangerous consequences (such as 
contact other plane), the spellcaster will certainly require proof that 
you can and will pay for dealing with any such consequences (that 
is, assuming that the spellcaster even agrees to cast such a spell, 
which isn't certain). In the case of spells that transport the caster 
and characters over a distance (such as teleport), you will likely 
have to pay for two castings of the spell, even if you aren't return- 
ing with the caster. 

In addition, not every town or village has a spellcaster of suffi- 
cient level to cast any spell. In general, you must travel to a small 
town (or larger settlement) to be reasonably assured of finding a 
spellcaster capable of casting 1st-level spells, a large town for 2nd- 
level spells, a small city for 3rd- or 4th-level spells, a large city for 
5th- or 6th-level spells, and a metropolis for 7th- or 8th-level spells. | 
Even a metropolis isnt guaranteed to have a local spellcaster able , 
to cast 9th-level spells, so seeking out such a caster may become an | 
adventure itself. (The Dungeon Master’s Guide has more informa- | 

ition on settlement sizes and demographics.) _ | 

Because you must get an actual spellcaster to casta spell for yor you] 4 
and can't rely on a neutral broker, money is not always sufficient to | 

| get a spell cast. If the spellcaster is opposed to you on religious, 

‘moral, or political grounds, you may not be able to get the spell 

you want for any price. The DM always sets the final price of any 
spellcasting you want to purchase 


| Shoulder/ em 

| q 
ageing 
f Sawawate attacks. 


Dpt y 
vA UCE avic ror 


e miabilt 


attack: 


leave E spen b y i A $ 


Catal attacks can 


reader an spponent Waconscious 


fy + nithes. 
at the li 


VULNERABLE AREAS 


tec Glows are well 

gett A Sowawars 

thrust es the best 
$ resu Ib, 


a y 
x F " a 
ighty swords clash, arrows hiss through the air, claws 
rip-and tear and rend; these are the thrilling sounds 
of battle. D&D.adventurers constantly find them- 
selves embroiled in combat situations—-and they 
~ wouldnt have it anyother way! Whether the adven- 
turers must fend offa bandit ambush on a deserted road or fight 
their way out of a bugbear lair in the deepest part of a dungeon, 
the rules in thisschapter provide an exciting way to solve any 
combat situation. } 
Many special abilities and forms of damage that affect combat 
are also.covéred inthe Dungeon Master’s Guide. 


To help visualize events in the fictional world of the D&D game, 
we recommend the use of miniature figures and a battle grid. A 
battle grid, such as the one provided in the Dungeon Master's Guide, 
consists of a grid of 1-inch squares. Each of these squares repre- 
sents'a 5-foot square in the game world. 

You can usesthe grid, along with miniature figures or some 
other form of markers or tokens, to show the matching order of 
your adventuring party (they can walk two abreast down a 10- 
foot-wide dungeon corridor or single file in a 5-foot-wide 
tunnel) or the relative location of the characters in any given 
situation. 

As its name implies, however, the best use for a battle grid is 
when the adventurers charge or stumble iñto,a combat situa- 
tion. Then the grid helps everyone play out the battle. See the 
diagram on the following page for some specifics about the 
battle grid. 


A ROD 


The bare of br hull, in Conjunction 
meh the teat ty ot the aec aK 
- His location OM deat, fareet: 


The Soltis, showa here ta 
the anterior furrodies the 
targeted shoulder joint, 


hk Bias usprofirc ted 


rsd artery ruaz akon the PALA 


of the arm be Ween the 
is eee ane the 
bicep rach, 


e taner anh outer collateral 
lcainent, if ETF Can destroy 


the Orwms waction: 


poyon p 4q snr 


Tendons on the Ge ee 
the hand, if severed, 


ae 


e Methai 


Combat in the D&D games cyclical; everybody acts in turn 
in a regular cycle of rounds. Combat follows this sequence: 

1. Each combatant starts out flat-footed. Once a combat- 
ant acts, he or she is no longer flat-footed. 

2. The DM determines which characters are aware of 
their opponents at the start of the battle. If some but not 
all of the combatants are aware of their opponents, a sur- 
prise round happens before regular rounds of combat 
begin. The combatants who are aware of the opponents 
can actin the surprise round, so they roll for initiative. In 
initiative order (highest to lowest), combatants who 
started the battle aware of their opponents each take one 
action (either a standard action ora move action) during 
the surprise round. Combatants who were unaware do 
not get to act in the surprise round. If no one or every- 
one starts the battle aware, there is no surprise round. 

3: Combatants who have not yet rolled initiative do 
so. All combatants are now ready to begin their first 
regular round of combat. 

4. Combatants act in initiative order (highest to 
lowest). 

5. When everyone has had a turn, the combatant 
with the highest initiative acts again, and steps 4 and 
5 repeat until combat ends. 


This section summarizes the statistics that deter- 
mine success in combat, and then details how to use 
them. 


A Phage ely 


ATTACK ROLL = 


An attack roll represents your attempt to strike your opponent on 
your turn in a round. When you make an attack roll, you roll a d20 
and add your attack bonus. (Other modifiers may also apply to this 
roll.) If your result equals or beats the target’s Armor Class, you hit | 
and deal damage. 


Automatic Misses and Hits: A natural 1 (the d20 comes up ry 


¿on an attack roll is always a miss. A natural 20 (the d20 comes up| 
|20) is always a hit. A natural 20 is also a threat—a possible critical, 
hit (see the Critical Hits sidebar, page 140). 


ATTACK BONUS 


„Your attack bonus with a melee weapon is: 

Base attack bonus + Strength modifier + size modifier 
With a ranged weapon, your attack bonus is: 

Base attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + size modifier 
___+ range penalty 


+ 


$ — 


Strength Modifier: Strength helps you swing a weapon harder | 
Land faster, so your Strength modifier applies to melee attack rolls. | 
Dexterity Modifier: Dexterity measures coordination and | 
steadiness, so your Dexterity modifier applies to attacks with 
ranged weapons. 

Size Modifier: The smaller you are, the bigger other creatures 
are relative to you. A human is a big target to a halfling, just as an 
ogre is a big target to a human. Since this same size modifier 

Lapplies to Armor Class, two creatures of the same size strike each 
Lother normally, regardless of what size they actually are. 


TABLE 8—1: SIZE MODIFIERS 


Size Size Modifier Size Size Modifier 

| Colossal -8 Small +1 

_Gargantuan —4 Tiny +2 

| Huge —2 Diminutive +4 
Large =] Fine 7 +8 
Medium +0 


— e» 


corner 


Small or Medium 4 
creature’s space DA J 


centerpoint 


Large creature’s space 


intersection 


The Battle Grid 


Range Penalty: The range penalty for a ranged weapon, 
depends on the weapon and the distance to the target. All ranged | 


weapons have a range increment, such as 10 feet for a thrown dart | 


or 100 feet for a longbow (see Table 7—5: Weapons, page 116). Any | 


Lattack from a distance of less than one range increment is not 
penalized for range, so an arrow from a shortbow (range incre- 
\ment 60 feet) can strike at enemies up to 59 feet away with no 

penalty. However, each full range increment causes a cumulative 


—2 penalty on the attack roll. A shortbow archer firing at a target. 
.200 feet away takes a—6 penalty on his attack roll (because 200 feet | 


lis at least three range increments but not four increments). 

Thrown weapons, such as throwing axes, have a maximum 
range of five range increments. Projectile weapons, such as bows, 
can shoot up to ten increments. 


DAMAGE 


When your attack succeeds, you deal damage. The type of weapon 


4 


4 


+ 


Lused (see Table 7-5: Weapons, page 116) determines the amount of | 
\damage you deal. Effects that modify weapon damage apply to, 


¿unarmed strikes and the natural physical attack forms of creatures. 
Damage reduces a target's current hit points. 


Minimum Damage: If penalties reduce the damage result to , 


less than 1, a hit still deals 1 point of damage. 

Strength Bonus: When you hit with a melee or thrown 
weapon, including a sling, add your Strength modifier to the 
damage result. A Strength penalty, but not a bonus, applies on 
attacks made with a bow that is not a composite bow. 
| Off-Hand Weapon: When you deal damage with a weapon in| 
your off hand, you add only 1/2 your Strength bonus. 


Wielding a Weapon Two-Handed: When you deal aes al 


+ 


weapon that you are wielding two-handed, you add 1-1/2 times | 
your Strength bonus. However, you don't get this higher Strength | 
bonus when using a light weapon with two hands (see Light, One- | 


Handed, and Two-Handed Melee Weapons, page 113). 

Multiplying Damage: Sometimes you multiply damage by 
some factor, such as on a critical hit. Roll the damage (with all 
modifiers) multiple times and total the results. Note: When you 
multiply damage more than once, each multiplier works off the 
original, unmultiplied damage (see Multiplying, page 304). 

Exception: Extra damage dice over and above a weapon's normal 
damage, such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of 
a flaming sword, are never multiplied. _ 

For example, Krusk the half-orc barbarian has a Strength bonus 
of +3. That means he gets a +3 bonus on damage rolls when using 
a longsword, a +4 bonus on damage when using a greataxe (two- 
handed), and a +1 bonus on damage when using a weapon in his 
off hand. His critical multiplier with a greataxe is x3, so if he 
scores a critical hit with that weapon, he would roll 1d12+4 points 
of damage three times (the same as rolling 3d12+12). 

Ability Damage: Certain creatures and magical effects can 
cause temporary ability damage (a reduction to an ability score). 
The Dungeon Master’s Guide has details on ability damage. 


ARMOR CLASS 


Your Armor Class (AC) represents how hard it is for opponents to 
land a solid, damaging blow on you. It’s the attack roll result that 


an opponent needs to achieve to hit you. The average, unarmored | 


peasant has an AC of 10. Your AC is equal to the following: 


10 + armor bonus + shield bonus + Dexterity modifier _ 
+ size modifier 


Armor and Shield Bonuses: Your armor and shield each pro- 


(yide a bonus to your AC. This bonus represents their ability to pro- 
| tect you from blows. 
__ Dexterity Modifier: If your Dexterity is high, you are adept 
at dodging blows. If your Dexterity is low, you are inept at it. 


— | 
| 
| 


This section summarizes the rules and details concerning combat. 


THE BATTLE GRID 


Use a battle grid (such as the one in the Dungeon Master's Guide) to 
visualize combat situations. On a battle grid, each 1-inch square 
represents a 5-foot square in the game world. 


ROUNDS 


Combat occurs in rounds. In every round, each combatant gets to 
do something. A round represents 6 seconds in the game world. 


INITIATIVE 


Before the first round, each player makes an initiative check for 
his or her character. The DM makes initiative checks for the oppo- 
nents. An initiative check is a Dexterity check (1d20+Dexterity 
modifier). Characters act in order from highest initiative result to 
lowest, with the check applying to all rounds of the combat. 

A character is flat-footed until he or she takes an action. 


ACTIONS 


Every round, on your character’s turn, you may take a standard 
action and a move action (in either order), two move actions, or 
one full-round action. You may also perform one or more free 
actions along with any other action, as your DM allows. 


ATTACKS 


In combat, the most prevalent standard action is an attack. You 
can move your speed and make an attack in a round (a move 
action and a standard action). Experienced characters can attack 
more than once, but only if they don't move (a full-round action). 
Making a ranged attack provokes attacks of opportunity from 
opponents that threaten you (see below). 


Attack Roll 
To score a hit that deals damage on your attack roll, your result 
must equal or exceed the target’s Armor Class (AC). 
Melee Attack Roll: 1d20 + base attack bonus + Strength modi- 
fier + size modifier. 
Ranged Attack Roll: 1d20 + base attack bonus + Dexterity 
modifier + size modifier + range penalty. 


Damage 
If you score a hit, roll damage and deduct it from the target's cur- 
rent hit points. Add your Strength modifier on damage rolls 
involving melee and thrown weapons. If you're using a weapon in 
your off hand, add one-half your Strength modifier (if it’s a 
bonus). If you're wielding a weapon with both hands, add one and 
a half times your Strength modifier (if it’s a bonus). 


Armor Class 
A character’s Armor Class (AC) is the result you need to get on 
your attack roll to hit that character in combat. 
Armor Class: 10 + armor bonus + shield bonus + Dexterity 
modifier + size modifier. 


Hit Points 
Hit points represent how much damage a character can take 
before falling unconscious or dying. 


SPELLS 


In most cases, you can move your speed and cast a spell in the 
same round (a move action and a standard action). Casting a spell 


provokes attacks of opportunity from opponents that threaten 
you (see below). 


SAVING THROWS 


When you are subject to an unusual or magical attack, you gener- 
ally get a saving throw to negate or reduce its effect. To succeed on 
a saving throw, you need a result equal to or higher than its Diffi- 
culty Class. 

Fortitude Saving Throw: 1d20 + base save bonus + Constitu- 
tion modifier 

Reflex Saving Throw: 1d20 + base save bonus + Dexterity 
modifier 

Will Saving Throw: 1d20 + base save bonus + Wisdom modi- 
fier 


MOVEMENT 


Each character has a speed measured in feet. You can move that 
distance as a move action. You can take a move action before or 
after a standard action on your turn in a round. 

You can instead forego a standard action and take two move 
actions in a round, which lets you move double your speed. Or 
you can run, which lets you move quadruple your speed but takes 
all of your actions for the round. 


ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY 


During combat, you threaten all squares adjacent to yours, even 
when it’s not your turn. An opponent that takes certain actions 
while in a threatened square provokes an attack of opportunity 
from you. An attack of opportunity is a free melee attack that does 
not use up any of your actions. You can make one attack of oppor- 
tunity per round. Actions that provoke attacks of opportunity 
include moving (except as noted below), casting a spell, and 
attacking with a ranged weapon. 
You provoke an attack of opportunity when you move out of a 
threatened square, except: 
e If you withdraw (a full-round action), opponents don't get 
attacks of opportunity when you move from your initial square. 
If you move into another threatened square, however, oppo- 
nents get attacks of opportunity when you leave that square. 
* Ifyour entire move for the round is 5 feet (a 5-foot step), oppo- 
nents don't get attacks of opportunity when you move. 


DEATH, DYING, AND HEALING 


Your hit points represent how much damage you can take before 
being disabled, knocked unconscious, or killed. 

1 or More Hit Points: As long as you have 1 or more hit 
points, you remain fully functional. 

0 Hit Points: If your hit points drop to 0, you are disabled. You 
can only take one move action or standard action per turn, and 
you take 1 point of damage after completing an action. 

—1 to -9 Hit Points: If your hit points drop to from —1 to —9 hit 
points, you're unconscious and dying, and you lose 1 hit point per 
round. Each round, before losing that hit point, you have a 10% 
chance of becoming stable. While stable, you're still unconscious. 
Each hour you have a 10% chance to regain consciousness, and if 
you don't, you lose 1 hit point instead. 

-10 Hit Points: If your hit points fall to —10 or lower, you're 
dead. 

Healing: You can stop a dying character's loss of hit points 
with a DC 15 Heal check or with even 1 point of magical healing. 
If healing raises a character's hit points to 1 or more, the character 
can resume acting as normal. 


That’s why you apply your Dexterity modifier to your AC._ 

Note that armor limits your Dexterity bonus, so if you're wear- 
ing armor, you might not be able to apply your whole Dexterity 
bonus to your AC (see Table 7-6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 


Sometimes you can't use your Dexterity bonus (if you have. 
one). If you can't react to a blow, you can't use your Dexterity | 


bonus to AC. (If you don't have a Dexterity bonus, nothing hap- 
| pens.) You lose your Dexterity bonus when, for example, an invis- | 
Lible opponent attacks you, you're hanging on to the face of a crum- 


bling cliff high above a river of lava, or you're caught flat-footed at | 


ithe beginning of a combat. S 

|__ Size Modifier: The bigger a creature is, the easier it is to hit in 

combat. The smaller it is, the harder it is to hit. Since this same 
modifier applies to attack rolls, a halfling, for example, doesn't 
have a hard time hitting another halfling. See Table 8-1: Size Mod- 
ifiers, page 134. 

__ Other Modifiers: Many other factors modify your AC. 


Enhancement Bonuses: Enhancement effects make your armor | 


better (+1 chainmail, +2 heavy shield, etc.). 


| Deflection Bonus: Magical deflection effects ward off attacks and | 


improve your AC. 


Natural Armor: Natural armor improves your AC. (Members of 


the common races don't have natural armor, which usually con- 
sists of scales, fur, or layers of huge muscles.) 

Dodge Bonuses: Some other AC bonuses represent actively 

avoiding blows, such as the dwarf’s AC bonus against giants or 
the AC bonus for fighting defensively. These bonuses are called 
dodge bonuses. Any situation that denies you your Dexterity 
‘bonus also denies you dodge bonuses. (Wearing armor, how- 
Lever, does not limit these bonuses the way it limits a Dexterity 
¿bonus to AC.) Unlike most sorts of bonuses, dodge bonuses 
[stack with each other. A dwarf’s +4 dodge bonus against giants 
_and his +2 dodge bonus for fighting defensively combine to give 
‘him a +6 bonus. 

Touch Attacks: Some attacks disregard armor, including 
shields and natural armor. For example, a wizard’s Be with a 


ing or how thick your skin happens to o be. In EFS cases, the, 


attacker makes a touch attack roll (either ranged or melee). When | n4 


you are the target of a touch attack, your AC doesn't include any | 
armor bonus, shield bonus, or natural armor bonus. All other mod- | 


ifiers, such as your size modifier, Dexterity modifier, and deflec- 
tion bonus (if any) apply normally. 

For example, if a sorcerer tries to touch Tordek with a shocking 
grasp spell, Tordek gets his +1 Dexterity bonus, but not his +4 
armor bonus for his scale mail or his +2 shield bonus for his heavy 
wooden shield. His AC is only 11 against a touch attack. 


HIT POINTS 


[Your] hit points tell you how much punishment you can take 
before dropping. Your hit points are based on your class and level, 
and your Constitution modifier applies. Most monsters’ hit points 
are based on their type, though some monsters have classes and 
levels, too. (Watch out for medusa sorcerers!) 

When your hit point total reaches 0, you're disabled. When it 
reaches —1, youre dying. When it gets to -10, your problems are 
over—youre dead (see Injury and Death, page 145). 


SPEED 


Your speed tells you how far you can move in a round and still do 
something, such as attack or cast a spell. Your speed depends most- 
i on your race and what armor you're wearing. 


Dwarves, gnomes, and halflings have a speed of 20 feet (4 
squares), or 15 feet (3 squares) when wearing medium or heavy 
‚armor (except for dwarves, who move 20 feet in any armor). 


Humans, elves, half-elves, and half-orcs have a speed of 30 feet | 


(6 squares), or 20 feet (4 squares) in medium or heavy armor. 


If you use two move actions in a round (sometimes called a, 
“double move” action), you can move up to double your speed. If | 
you spend the entire round to run all out, you can move up to 
quadruple your speed (or triple if you are in heavy armor). 


+ 


— = 


SAVING THROWS 


|As an adventurer, you have more to worry about than taking dam- 


age. You also have to face the petrifying gaze of a medusa, a 
wyvern’s lethal venom, and a harpy’s captivating song. Luckily, a 


tough adventurer can survive these threats, too. _ 


An 


| 
deas 


+ 


Generally, when you are subject to an unusual or magical attack, | } 
you get a saving throw to avoid or reduce the effect. Like an attack 
roll, a saving throw is a d20 roll plus a bonus based on your class, 
level, and an ability score. Your saving throw modifier is: — 


— - + 


Base save bonus + ability modifier 


Saving Throw Types: The three different kinds of saving. 
throws are Fortitude, Reflex, and Will: 

Fortitude: These saves measure your ability to stand up to physi- 
cal punishment or attacks against your vitality and health. Apply, 
your Constitution modifier to your Fortitude saving throws. Forti- 
tude saves can be made against attacks or effects such as poison, | 
disease, paralysis, petrification, energy drain, and disintegrate. 

Reflex: These saves test your ability to dodge area attacks. Apply 
your Dexterity modifier to your Reflex saving throws. Reflex saves 
can be made against attacks or effects such as pit traps, catching on, 


+ 


fire, fireball, lightning bolt, and red dragon breath. 


4 

Will: These saves reflect your resistance to mental influence | 
as well as many magical effects. Apply your Wisdom modifier to | 
your Will saving throws. Will saves can be made against attacks | 
or effects such as charm person, hold person, and most illusion | 
spells. 

Saving Throw Difficulty Class: The DC for a save is deter-| 
mined by the attack itself. Two examples: A Medium monstrous 
centipede's poison allows a DC 11 Fortitude save. An ancient red 
dragon's fiery breath allows a DC 36 Reflex save. 

Automatic Failures and Successes: A natural 1 (the d20 
comes up 1) on a saving throw is always a failure (and may cause 
damage to exposed items; see Items Surviving after a Saving Throw, 
page 177). A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is always a success. 


: 


Every round, each combatant gets to do something. The combat- 
ants’ initiative checks, from highest to lowest, determine the order 
in which they act. 

Initiative Checks: At the start of a battle, each combatant 
makes an initiative check. An initiative check is a Dexterity 
check. Each character applies his or her Dexterity modifier to the 
roll. The DM finds out what order characters are acting in, count- 
ing down from highest result to lowest, and each character acts in 
turn. In every round that follows, the characters act in the same 
order (unless a character takes an action that results in his or her 
initiative changing; see Special Initiative Actions, page 160). 
Usually, the DM writes the names of the characters down in ini- 
tiative order so that on subsequent rounds he can move quickly | 
from one character to the next. If two or more combatants have | 
the same initiative check result, the combatants who are tied act | 
in order of total initiative modifier (highest first). If there is still a | 


itie, the tied characters should roll again to determine which one, 


of them goes before the other. | 
Monster Initiative: Typically, the DM makes a single initia- | 


itive check for monsters and other opponents. That way, each 
| player gets a turn each round and the DM also gets one turn. At 
ithe DM’s option, however, he can make separate initiative 


checks for different groups of monsters or even for individual 


bonus to AC (if any) while flat-footed. (This fact can be very bad} 


creatures. For instance, the DM may make one initiative check 


for an evil cleric of Nerull and another check for all seven of her 
zombie guards. 
Flat-Footed: At the start of a battle, before you have had a 


chance to act (specifically, before your first regular turn in the ini-| 


tiative order), you are flat-footed. You can't use your Dexterity 


t 


for you if you're attacked by rogues.) Barbarians and rogues have | 


ithe uncanny dodge extraordinary ability, which allows them to} 


„avoid losing their Dexterity bonus to AC due to being flat-footed. | 
LA flat-footed character can’t make attacks of opportunity. | 
_ Inaction: Even if you can't take actions (for instance, if you be- 
_come paralyzed or unconscious), you retain your initiative score 


+ 


for the duration of the encounter. For example, when paralyzed by 
a ghoul, you may miss one or more actions, but once the cleric 
casts remove paralysis on you, you may act again on your next turn. 


SURPRISE 


When a combat starts, if you are not aware of your opponents andl 


[hey are aware of you, you're surprised. 


Determining Awareness 


Sometimes all the combatants on a side are aware of their oppo- 
nents, sometimes none are, and sometimes only some of them are. 
Sometimes a few combatants on each side are aware and the other 
combatants on each side are unaware. 

The DM determines who is aware of whom at the start of a 


| battle. He may call for Listen checks, Spot checks, or other checks 


$ 


lto see how aware the adventurerers are of their opponents. Some 

‘example situations: : 

e The party (including Tordek, a fighter, and Joz Jozan, acleric, clang- 
ing along in metal armor) comes to a door in a dungeon. The 
DM knows that the displacer beasts beyond the door hear the 
party. Lidda listens at the door, hears guttural snarling, and 
warns the rest of the party. Tordek breaks the door open. Both 
sides are aware; neither is surprised. The characters and 
displacer beasts make initiative checks, and the battle begins. 


+ 


e The party explores a ruined armory, looking through the rusted; 


weapons for anything of value. Kobolds lurk in the nooks and | 
crannies, waiting for the right time to strike. Jozan spots one of | 


the kobolds, and the kobolds shriek and charge. The kobolds 


and Jozan each get a standard action during the surprise round. 
Kobolds that are close enough can charge adventurers and 
attack them. Others can move to try to put themselves in advan- 
tageous positions or shoot arrows at the flat-footed party 
members. Jozan can cast a spell, attack, or take some other 
action. After the surprise round, the first regular round begins. 


.*_ The party advances down a dark corridor, using light spells to 


see where they're going. At the end of the corridor, outside the 
range of the illumination, a kobold sorcerer doesn't want to be 
disturbed, and she angrily casts_a lightning bolt. That’s the 
surprise round. After the lightning bolt, the first regular round 
begins with the party in a tough spot, since they still can't see 
who attacked them. 

The Surprise Round: If some but not all of the combatants 
are aware of their opponents, a surprise round happens before 
regular rounds begin. Any combatants aware of the opponents 
can act in the surprise round, so they roll for initiative. In initia- 
tive order (highest to lowest), combatants who started the battle 


„aware of their opponents each take a standard action during the 


avoiding attacks. A player doesn't have to declare anything special 


for her character to be on the defensive. Even if a character’s 


| miniature figure is just standing there on the battle grid, you can 


ibe sure that if some orc with a falchion attacks the character, she is 


weaving, dodging, and even threatening the orc with a weapon to 
keep the orc a little worried for his own hide. 
Sometimes, however, a combatant in a melee lets her guard | 


| down. In this case, combatants near her can take advantage of her] 


lapse in defense to attack her for free. These free attacks are called 
attacks of opportunity (see the diagram on the next page). 


+ 


4 


The melee combat rules assume that combatants are actively. 


4 


Threatened Squares: You threaten all squares into which you, 
can make a melee attack, even when it is not your action. Gener- | 


ally, that means everything in all squares adjacent to your space 


‚(including diagonally). An enemy that takes certain actions while 
in a threatened square provokes an attack of opportunity from , 
you. If youre unarmed, you don’t normally threaten any squares, 


4 


+ 


isquares) away, even diagonally. (This is an exception to the rule |_ 


Land thus cant make attacks of opportunity (but see Unarmed 


Tattacks, page 139). 


Reach Weapons: Most creatures of Medium or smaller size have a, 
reach of only 5 feet. This means that they can make melee attacks 
only against creatures up to 5 feet (1 square) away. However, Small 
and Medium creatures wielding reach weapons (such as a long- 


spear) threaten more squares than a typical creature. For instance, 
a longspear-wielding human threatens all squares 10 feet (2| 


that 2 squares of diagonal distance is measured as 15 feet.) In addi- 


tion, most creatures larger than Medium have a natural reach of 10 | 
feet or more; see Big and Little Creatures in Combat, page 149. | 

Provoking an Attack of Opportunity: Two kinds of actions | 
can provoke attacks of opportunity: moving out of a threatened | 


square and performing an action within a threatened square. 

Moving: Moving out of a threatened square usually provokes an 
attack of opportunity from the threatening opponent. There are 
two common methods of avoiding such an attack—the 5-foot-step 
(see page 144) and the withdraw action (see page 143). 

Performing a Distracting Act: Some actions, when performed in a 
threatened square, provoke attacks of opportunity as you divert 
your attention from the battle. Casting a spell and attacking with a 
ranged weapon, for example, are distracting actions. Table 8-2: 
Actions in Combat notes many of the actions that provoke attacks 
of opportunity. 

Remember that even actions that normally provoke attacks of 
opportunity may have exceptions to this rule. For instance, a char- 
acter with the Improved Unarmed Strike feat doesn’t incur an 
attack of opportunity for making an unarmed attack. 

Making an Attack of Opportunity: An attack of opportunity 
is a single melee attack, and you can only make one per round. You 
don't have to make an attack of opportunity if you don't want to. 

An experienced character gets additional regular melee attacks 
(by using the full attack action), but at a lower attack bonus. You 
make your attack of opportunity, however, at your normal attack 
bonus—even if you've already attacked in the round. 

An attack of opportunity “interrupts” the normal flow of actions 


in the round. If an attack of opportunity is provoked, immediately | 
resolve the attack of opportunity, then continue with the next | 
character's turn (or complete the current turn, if the attack of | 
opportunity was provoked in the midst of a character’s turn). | 


Combat Reflexes and Additional Attacks of Opportunity: If you have | 
the Combat Reflexes feat (page 92), you can add your Dexterity | 


(surprise round (see Standard Actions, page 139). You can also take 
free actions during the surprise round, at the DM's discretion. If 

Ls one or everyone is surprised, no surprise round occurs. modifier to the number of attacks of opportunity you can make in | 
| Unaware Combatants: Combatants who are unaware at the ‘around. This feat does not let you make more than one attack for | 
_start of battle don't get to act in the surprise round. Unaware com- la given opportunity, but if the same opponent provokes two 
batants are flat-footed because they have not acted yet, so theylose| [attacks of opportunity from you—such as by moving out of a 


any Dexterity bonus to AC. threatened square and then casting a spell in a threatened 


+ 


[37 


138 


Mialee 

[casting spell] = 
Mialee provokes an 
attack of opportunity, 
from the orc because 
she’s casting a spellina 
threatened square. 


pi 10-foot eel 


$ 
i 


\square—you could make two separate attacks of opportunity 
(since each one represents a different opportunity). Moving out of 
[more than one square threatened by the same opponent in the 
same round doesn't count as more than one opportunity for that 
opponent. All these attacks are at your full normal attack bonus. 


+ 


The fundamental actions of moving, attacking, and casting spells | 


cover most of what you want to do ina battle. They're all described . 
here. Other, more specialized options are covered later in Special 
Attacks, page 154, and Special Initiative Actions, page 160. 


THE COMBAT ROUND 


Each round represents 6 seconds in the game world. At the table, 
a round presents an opportunity for each character involved in a 
‚combat situation to take an action. Anything a person could rea- 
sonably do in 6 seconds, your character can do in 1 round. 

_ Each round’s activity begins with the character with the highest 
initiative result and then proceeds, in order, from there. Each 
round of a combat uses the same initiative order. When a charac- 
ter’s turn comes up in the initiative sequence, that character per- 
forms his entire round’s worth of actions. (For exceptions, see 
Attacks of Opportunity, page 137, and Special Initiative Actions, 
page 160.) 

round or the beginning of a Td, The term “round” works like the 
word “month.” A month can mean either a calendar month or a span 
_of time from a day in one month to the same day the next month. In 
_the same way, a round can be a segment of game time starting with 
phe first character to act and ending with the last, but it usually 


| means a span of time from one round to the same initiative count in 


| the next round. Effects that last a certain number of rounds end just 
_before the same initiative count that they began on. 
For example, a monk acts on initiative count 15. The monk’s | 
stunning attack stuns a creature for 1 round. The stun lasts | 


i n ‘He pi proh San ack of 


ae from the hobgoblin when 


rA sq E so nM Tordek 
leaves CODES e he provokes an 


ee ofopporti ity from the troll. 


b= 


hobgoblin 


troll 


[10-foot reach] 


I Square =ş feet | 


4 
through initiative count 16 in the next round, not until the end of | 
the current round. On initiative count 15 in the next round, the | 
stun effect has ended and the previously stunned creature can act. 


ACTION TYPES 


An action’s type essentially tells you how long the action takes to 
perform (within the framework of the 6-second combat round) 
and how movement is treated. There are four types of actions: 
standard actions, move actions, full-round actions, and free 
actions. 

In a normal round, you can perform a standard action and a 
move action, or you can perform a full-round action. You can also 
perform as many free actions (see below) as your DM allows. You 
can always take a move action in place of a standard action. 

In some situations (such as in a surprise round), you may be 
limited to taking only a single move action or standard action. 

Standard Action: A standard action allows you to do some- 
thing. The most common type of standard action is an attack—a 
single melee or ranged attack. Other common standard actions 
include casting a spell, concentrating to maintain an active spell, 
activating a magic item, and using a special ability. See Table 8-2: 
Actions in Combat for other standard actions. 

Move Action: A move action allows you to move your speed or 
perform an action that takes a similar amount of time. You can 
move your speed, climb one-quarter of your speed, draw or stow a 
weapon or other item, stand up, pick up an object, or perform | 
some equivalent action (see Table 8—2: Actions in Combat). 

You can take a move action in place of a standard action. For in- | 
stance, rather than moving your speed and attacking, you could | 
istand up and move your speed (two move actions), put away a| 
weapon and climb one-quarter of your speed (two move actions), 
or pick up an item and stow it in your backpack (two move | 


‘actions). 


If you move no actual distance in a round (commonly because 


‘you have swapped your move for one or more equivalent actions, 


such as standing up), you can take one 5-foot step either before, 


during, or after the action. For example, if Tordek is on the ground, 
he can stand up (a move action), move 5 feet (a 5-foot step), and 
then attack. 

Full-Round Action: A full-round action consumes all your effort 
during a round. The only movement you can take during a full- 
round action is a 5-foot step before, during, or after the action. You 
can also perform free actions (see below) as your DM allows. The 
most common type of full-round action is a full attack, which allows 
you to make multiple melee or ranged attacks in a single round. 

Some full-round actions do not allow you to take a 5-foot step. 

Some full-round actions can be taken as standard actions, but 
only in situations when you are limited to performing only a stan- 
dard action during your round (such as in a surprise round). The 
descriptions of specific actions, below, detail which actions allow 
this option. 

Free Action: Free actions consume a very small amount of time 
and effort, and over the span of the round, their impact is so minor 
that they are considered free. You can perform one or more free 
actions while taking another action normally. However, the DM 
puts reasonable limits on what you can really do for free. For in- 
stance, calling out to your friends for help, dropping an object, and 
ceasing to concentrate on a spell are all free actions. 

Not an Action: Some activities are so minor that they are not 
even considered free actions. They literally don't take any time at 
all to do and are considered an inherent part of doing something 
else. For instance, using the Use Magic Device skill (page 85) 
while trying to activate a device is not an action, it is part of the 
standard action to activate a magic item. 

Restricted Activity: In some situations (such as when you're 
slowed or during a surprise round), you may be unable to take a full 
round’s worth of actions. In such cases, you are restricted to taking 
only a single standard action or a single move action (plus free 
actions as normal). You can't take a full-round action (though you 
can start or complete a full-round action by using a standard 
action; see below). 


STANDARD ACTIONS 


Most standard actions involve making an attack, casting a spell, or 
activating an item. These are the most common, straightforward 
actions that a character might take in a combat round. More spe- 
cialized actions are covered in Special Attacks, page 154. 


Attack 


Making an attack is a standard action. 

Melee Attacks: With a normal melee weapon, you can strike 
any opponent within 5 feet. (Opponents within 5 feet are consid- 
ered adjacent to you.) Some melee weapons have reach, as indi- 
cated in their descriptions in Chapter 7: Equipment. With a typi- 
cal reach weapon, you can strike opponents 10 feet away, but you 
can't strike adjacent foes (those within 5 feet). 

Unarmed Attacks: Striking for damage with punches, kicks, 
and head butts is much like attacking with a melee weapon, except 
for the following: 

Attacks of Opportunity: Attacking unarmed provokes an attack of 
opportunity from the character you attack, provided she is armed. 
The attack of opportunity comes before your attack. An unarmed 
attack does not provoke attacks of opportunity from other foes, as 
shooting a bow does, nor does it provoke an attack of opportunity 
from an unarmed foe. You provoke the attack of opportunity be- 
cause you have to bring your body close to your opponent. 

An unarmed character can't take attacks of opportunity (but see 
“Armed” Unarmed Attacks, below). 

“Armed” Unarmed Attacks: Sometimes a character's or creature's 
unarmed attack counts as an armed attack. A monk, a character 
with the Improved Unarmed Strike feat (page 96), a spellcaster 
delivering a touch attack spell, and a creature with claws, fangs, 
and similar natural physical weapons all count as being armed. 


Note that being armed counts for both offense and defense. Not 
only does a monk not provoke an attack of opportunity when 
attacking an armed foe, but you provoke an attack of opportunity 
from a monk if you make an unarmed attack against her. 

Unarmed Strike Damage: An unarmed strike from a Medium 
character deals 1d3 points of damage (plus your Strength modi- 
fier, as normal). A Small character’s unarmed strike deals 1d2 
points of damage, while a Large character's unarmed strike deals 
1d4 points of damage. All damage from unarmed strikes is non- 
lethal damage. Unarmed strikes count as light weapons (for pur- 
poses of two-weapon attack penalties and so on). 

Dealing Lethal Damage: You can specify that your unarmed 
strike will deal lethal damage before you make your attack roll, 
but you take a —4 penalty on your attack roll because you have to 
strike a particularly vulnerable spot to deal lethal damage. If you 
have the Improved Unarmed Strike feat, you can deal lethal 
damage with an unarmed strike without taking a penalty on the 
attack roll. 

Ranged Attacks: With a ranged weapon, you can shoot or 
throw at any target that is within the weapon’s maximum range 
and in line of sight. The maximum range for a thrown weapon is 
five range increments. For projectile weapons, it is ten range 
increments. Some ranged weapons have shorter maximum 
ranges, as specified in their descriptions. 

Attack Rolls: An attack roll represents your attempts to strike 
your opponent. It does not represent a single swing of the sword, 
for example. Rather, it indicates whether, over several attempts in 
the round, you managed to connect solidly. 

Your attack roll is 1d20 + your attack bonus with the weapon 
youre using. If the result is at least as high as the target’s AC, you 
hit and deal damage. 

Automatic Misses and Hits: A natural 1 (the d20 comes up 1) 
on the attack roll is always a miss. A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 
20) is always a hit. A natural 20 is also a threat—a possible critical 
hit (see the Critical Hits sidebar, page 140). 

Damage Rolls: If the attack roll result equals or exceeds the 


line of sight okay 


+ 


r[worcreatures'can'seecach’other, 
iftthey,cantrace‘at least one,clear, 


straight:linefrom'any:part of one 


creature’s space to any part of the 


‘other,creature’s space. The line 
is/clear-if it doesn’t cross or even 
touch squares that block line 

of sight. 


140 


target’s AC, the attack hits and you deal damage. Roll the 
appropriate damage for your weapon (see Table 7-5: Weapons, 
page 116). Damage is deducted from the target's current hit 
points. If the opponent's hit points drop to 0 or lower, he’s in bad 
shape (see Injury and Death, page 145). | 
_attack per round ‘tick use the full attack action (see Full- Round, 
Actions, below) in order to get more than one attack. 

[ Shooting or Throwing into a Melee: If you shoot or throw a 
ranged weapon at a target engaged in melee with a friendly char- | 
vacter, you take a—4 penalty on your attack roll because you have to | 
ee in melee if they a are enemies of sack other and either 
threatens the other. (An unconscious or otherwise immobilized 
character is not considered engaged unless he is actually being 
attacked.) 

If your target (or the part of your target you're aiming at, if it’s a 
big target) is at least 10 feet away from the nearest friendly charac- 
[rer you can avoid the —4 penalty, even if the creature you're HERE 
Lat is engaged in melee with a friendly character. 

Precise Shot: If you have the Precise Shot feat (page 98), you don't! 
take this penalty. 

Fighting Defensively as a Standard Action: You can choose 
to fight defensively when attacking. If you do so, you take a —4 
penalty on all attacks in a round to gain a +2 dodge bonus to AC for 
the same round. This bonus stacks with the AC bonus granted by 
[the Combat Expertise feat (page 92). 


+ 


i T 
Cast a Spell 
{Most spells require 1 standard action to cast. You can cast such a 
spell either before or after you take a move action. See Chapter 10: 
| Magic for details on casting spells, their effects, and so on. 
___Note: You retain your Dexterity bonus to AC while casting. 
| Spell Components: To cast a spell with a verbal (V) compo- 
‘nent, your character must speak in a firm voice. If you're gagged or 
in the area of a silence spell, you can't cast such a spell. A spellcaster 
who has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any spell he tries _ 
to cast if that spell has a verbal component. = 

To cast a spell with a somatic (S) component, you must gesture | 
freely with at least one hand. You can't cast a spell of this type. 
while bound, grappling, or with both your hands full or occupied | 
(swimming, clinging to a cliff, or the like). 

To cast a spell with a material (M), focus (F), or divine focus 
(DF) component, you have to have the proper materials, as 
described by the spell. Unless these materials are elaborate, such 
as the 2-foot-by-4-foot mirror that a wizard needs to cast scrying, 
preparing these materials is a free action. For material compo- 
nents and focuses whose costs are not listed, you can assume that 


you have them if you have your spell component pouch. — 
Some spells have an experience point (XP) component and_| 
entail an experience point cost to you. No spell, not even restoration, | 
can restore the lost XP. You cannot spend so much XP that you lose | 
La level, so you cannot cast the spell unless you have enough XP to 
_|spare. However, you may, on gaining enough XP to achieve a new 
\level, immediately spend the XP on casting the spell rather than 
keeping it to advance a level. The XP are expended when you cast 
the spell, whether or not the casting succeeds. 

Concentration: You must concentrate to cast a spell. If you} 
\can't concentrate (because you are on the deck of a storm-tossed | 
ship, for instance), you can't cast a spell. If you start casting a spell 
but something interferes with your concentration, such as an ogre 
taking the opportunity to hit you with its club (successfully hit- , 
ting you with his attack of opportunity), you must make a Con- | 
centration check or lose the spell. The check’s DC depends on 
what is threatening your concentration (see the Concentration 
iskill, page 69, and Concentration, page 170). If you fail, the spell, 
\fizzles with no effect. If you prepare spells (as a wizard, cleric, . 
druid, paladin, or ranger does), it is lost from preparation. If you 
cast at will (as a sorcerer or bard does), it counts against your daily 

limit of spells even though you did not cast it successfully. 
Concentrating to Maintain a Spell: Some spells require con- | 
tinued concentration to keep them going. Concentrating to main- 
tain a spell is a standard action that doesn't provoke an attack of 
opportunity. Anything that could break your concentration when 
casting a spell can keep you from concentrating to maintain a 


+ 


$ 

Casting Time: Most spells have a casting time of 1 standard | 
action. A spell cast in this manner immediately takes effect. ] 

Attacks of Opportunity: Generally, if you cast a spell, you, 
provoke attacks of opportunity from threatening enemies. If you | 
take damage from an attack of opportunity, you must make a| 
Concentration check (DC 10 + points of damage taken + spell 
level) or lose the spell. Spells that require only a free action to 
cast (such as feather fall or any quickened spell) don’t provoke 
attacks of opportunity. ee 

Casting on the Defensive: You may attempt to cast a spell 
while paying attention to threats and avoiding blows. In this case, 
you are no more vulnerable to attack than you would be if you 
were just standing there, so casting a spell while on the defensive 
does not provoke an attack of opportunity. It does, however, 
require a Concentration check (DC 15 + spell level) to pull off. 
Failure means that you lose the spell. __ 

Touch Spells in Combat: Many spells have a range of touch. To 
use these spells, you cast the spell and then touch the subject, either 
in the same round or any time later. In the same round that you cast 
the spell, you may also touch (or attempt to touch) the target. You 


CRITICAL HITS 

When you make an attack roll and get a natural 20 (the d20 shows 20), 
you hit regardless of your target’s Armor Class, and you have scored a 
threat. The hit might be a critical hit (or “crit”). To find out if it’s a crit- 
ical hit, you immediately make a critical roll—another attack roll with 
all the same modifiers as the attack roll you just made. If the critical roll 
also results in a hit against the target’s AC, your original hit is a critical 
hit. (The critical roll just needs to hit to give you a crit. It doesn’t need 
to come up 20 again.) If the critical roll is a miss, then your hit is just 
a regular hit. 

A critical hit means that you roll your damage more than once, with 
all your usual bonuses, and add the rolls together. Unless otherwise 
specified, the threat range for a critical hit on an attack roll is 20, and 
the multiplier is x2. 

Exception: Extra damage over and above a weapon’s normal dam- 


age, such as that dealt by a sneak attack or the special ability of a flam- 
ing sword, is not multiplied when you score a critical hit. 

Increased Threat Range: Sometimes your threat range is greater 
than 20. That is, you can score a threat on a lower number. Long- 
swords, for instance, give you a threat on a natural attack roll of 19 or 
20. In such cases, a roll of lower than 20 is not an automatic hit. Any 
attack roll that doesn’t result in a hit is not a threat. 

Increased Critical Multiplier: Some weapons, such as battleaxes and 
arrows, deal better than double damage on a critical hit. See Table 7-5: 
Weapons (page 116) and the Critical section of Weapon Qualities 
(page 114). 

Spells and Critical Hits: A spell that requires an attack roll, such as 
shocking grasp or Melf’s acid arrow, can score a critical hit. A spell attack 
that requires no attack roll, such as lightning bolt, cannot score a criti- 
cal hit. 


may take your move before casting the spell, after touching the touches made with, say, your hand) and ranged touch attacks (for , 


target, or between casting the spell and touching the target. You can touches made with magic rays, for example). You can score critical | 
automatically touch one friend or use the spell on yourself, but to hits with either type of attack. Your opponent's AC against a touch | 
touch an opponent, you must succeed on an attack roll. attack does not include any armor bonus, shield bonus, or natural | 
Touch Attacks: Since you need only touch your enemy, you make, Larmor bonus. His size modifier, Dexterity modifier, and deflection 
a touch attack instead of a regular attack. Touching an opponent}. __| bonus (if any) all apply normally. 
_with a touch spell is considered to be an armed attack and there-. | Holding the Charge: If you don’t discharge the spell in the 
fore does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The touch spell pro- round when you cast the spell, you can hold the discharge of the 
\vides you with a credible threat that the defender is obliged to. spell (hold the charge) indefinitely. You can continue to make, 
‚take into account just as if it were a weapon. However, the act of | touch attacks round after round. You can touch one friend as a, 
_casting a spell does provoke an attack of opportunity, so you may) |standard action or up to six friends as a full-round action. If you. 
want to cast the spell and then move to the target instead of vice touch anything or anyone while holding a charge, even unin- 
„versa. Touch attacks come in two types: melee touch attacks (for tentionally, the spell discharges. If you cast another spell, the 


TABLE 8—2: ACTIONS IN COMBAT 


Attack of Extinguish flames No 
‚Standard Action Opportunity! Light a torch Yes 
Attack (melee) No |} _,Load a heavy or repeating crossbow Yes 
Attack (ranged) Yes 4 ¿Lock or unlock weapon in locked gauntlet Yes 
Attack (unarmed) Yes | _ Prepare to throw splash weapon (page 158) Yes 
Activate a magic item other than a potion or oil No | Run Yes 
Aid another (page 154) Maybe? Use skill that takes 1 round Usually 
Bull rush (page 154) Yes Use touch spell on up to six friends (page 141) — Yes 
Cast a spell (1 standard action casting time) Yes Withdraw’ No 
Concentrate to maintain an active spell No - 
Dismiss a spell No : Attack of 
‘Draw a hidden weapon (see Sleight of Hand, page 81) No Free Action = Opportunity’ | 
Drink a potion or apply an oil Yes Cast a quickened spell (page 98) No | 
Escape a grapple (page 156) No Cease concentration on a spell No } 
Feint (see page 155) No Drop an item No | 
Light a torch with a tindertwig (page 129) : Yes Drop to the floor No _} 
Lower spell resistance No Prepare spell components to cast a spell® No | 
Make a dying friend stable (see Heal, page 75) Yes Speak No | 
Overrun (page 157) No 
Read a scroll Yes Attack of 
Ready (triggers a standard action) No No Action Opportunity’ 
Sunder a weapon (attack) í ei Delay No 
Sunder an object (attack) Maybe | 5-foot step No 
Total defense No i 
Turn or rebuke undead (page 159) No | Action Type Varies 
Use extraordinary ability No | Disarm’ (page 155) Yes 
Use skill that takes 1 action Usually Grapple’ (page 155) Yes 
Use spell-like ability Yes Trip an opponent’ (page 158) Yes 
Use supernatural ability No Use feat® Varies 
Attack of 1 Regardless of the action, if you move out of a threatened square, you 
Move Action Opportunity! usually provoke an attack of opportunity. This column indicates 
Move Yes whether the action itself, not moving, provokes an attack of 
Control a frightened mount Yes opportunity. 
Direct or redirect an active spell No 2 If you aid someone performing an action that would normally 
(Draw a weapon‘ No provoke an attack of opportunity, then the act of aiding another 
Load a hand crossbow or light crossbow Yes provokes an attack of opportunity as well. 
Open or close a door No 3 If the object is being held, carried, or worn by a creature, yes. If not, 
Mount a horse or dismount No no. 
Move a heavy object Yes 4 If you have a base attack bonus of +1 or higher, you can combine 
Pick up an item Yes one of these actions with a regular move. If you have the Two- 
Sheathe a weapon Yes Weapon Fighting feat, you can draw two light or one-handed 
Stand up from prone Yes weapons in the time it would normally take you to draw one. 
Ready or loose a shield* No 5 May be taken as a standard action if you are limited to taking only a | 
Retrieve a stored item Yes single action in a round. | 
16 Unless the component is an extremely large or awkward item (DM's | 
| Attack of call). 
Full-Round Action Opportunity! 7 These attack forms substitute for a melee attack, not an action. As. 
Full attack No ___melee attacks, they can be used once in an attack or charge action, 
Charge? (page 154) No | one or more times in a full attack action, or even as an attack of 
Deliver coup de grace (page 153) Yes i opportunity. 


Escape from a net (page 119) Yes | 8 The description of a feat defines its effect. 


touch spell dissipates. Alternatively, you may make a normal 
unarmed attack (or an attack with a natural weapon) while hold- 
ing a charge. In this case, you aren't considered armed and you 
provoke attacks of opportunity as normal for the attack. (If your 


unarmed attack or natural weapon attack doesn’t provoke, 


attacks of opportunity, neither does this attack.) If the attack | 


„hits, you deal normal damage for your unarmed attack or natu- } 


r 


[ral weapon and the spell discharges. If the attack misses, you are | 


Total Defense 


$ 


[still holding the charge. 


+ 
___Dismiss a Spell: Dismissing an active spell (such as alter self) is | 
[a standard action that doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity. | 


| 
Activate Magic Item 
Many magic items don’t need to be activated—magic weapons, 
magic armor, gauntlets of Dexterity, and so forth. However, certain 
magic items need to be activated, especially potions, scrolls, 
wands, rods, and staffs. Activating a magic item is a standard action 


„(unless the item description indicates otherwise). t 


Spell Completion Items: Activating a spell completion item, 


[such as a scroll, is the equivalent of casting a spell. It requires con-} 
centration and provokes attacks of opportunity. You lose the spell , 


if your concentration is broken, and you can attempt to activate 
the item while on the defensive, as with casting a spell (see Cast- 
ing on the Defensive, above). 

Spell Trigger, Command Word, or Use-Activated Items: 
Activating any of these kinds of items does not require concentra- 
tion and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. The Dungeon 

[Masters Guide has much more information on magic items. 


(Es Special Ability 

[Using a special ability is usually a standard action, but whether it 
lis a standard action, a full-round action, or not an action at all is de- 
fined by the ability (see Special Abilities, page 180). 

Spell-Like Abilities: Using a spell-like ability (such as a pal- 


Ladin calling her special mount) works like casting a spell in that it 


requires concentration and provokes attacks of opportunity. Spell- 
like abilities can be disrupted. If your concentration is broken, the. 
attempt to use the ability fails, but the attempt counts as if you had | 
used the ability (for example, it counts against your daily limit. if 
you have one). The casting time of a spell-like ability is 1 standard | 
action, unless the ability description notes otherwise. 

Using a Spell-Like Ability on the Defensive: You may attempt to | 
use a spell-like ability on the defensive, just as with casting a 
spell. If the Concentration check (DC 15 + spell level) fails, you 
can't use the ability, but the attempt counts as if you had used 
the ability. 

Supernatural Abilities: Using a supernatural ability (such as a 


_cleric’s turn or rebuke undead ability) is usually a standard action 


$ 
$ 


|(unless defined otherwise by the ability’s description). Its use can- 
[not be disrupted, does not require concentration, and does not 


provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Extraordinary Abilities: Using an extraordinary ability (such 
as a barbarians uncanny dodge ability) is usually not an action be- 
cause most extraordinary abilities automatically happen in a reac- 
tive fashion. Those extraordinary abilities that are actions are usu- 
ally standard actions that cannot be disrupted, do not require 


„cant make attacks of opportunity while using total defense. 


Start/Complete Full-Round Action 


Draw or Sheathe a Weapon 


concentration, and do not provoke attacks of opportunity. = 


+ 


+ 


You can defend yourself as a standard action. You get a +4 dodge, 


bonus to your AC for 1 round. Your AC improves at the start of this 


action, so it helps you against any attacks of opportunity you incur 

during the round. You can't combine total defense with fighting 

defensively or with the benefit of the Combat Expertise feat (since 
both of those require you to declare an attack or full attack). You, 


4 
— — 4 


The “start full-round action” standard action lets you start under- 
taking a full-round action, which you can complete in the fol- | 
lowing round by using another standard action. For instance, if, 
you are limited to taking only a standard action each turn, you 


can shoot a heavy crossbow every 3 rounds, needing 2 rounds to 

[load it (a full-round action) and 1 round to shoot it. Also, if you. 
want to cast a spell whose casting time is 1 full round, you can 
start the casting in one round and complete it in the following 


+ 


round, for example. You can't use this action to start or complete a , 
full attack, charge, run, or withdraw. 


MOVE ACTIONS 


With the exception of specific movement- related skills, most 
move actions don't require a check. 


——— — 4 


Move 


4 
The simplest move action is moving your speed. If you take this kind | 
of move action during your turn, you can't also take a 5-foot step. | 

Many nonstandard modes of movement are covered under this , 
category, including climbing (up to one-quarter of your speed) | 
and swimming (up to one-quarter of your speed). 

Accelerated Climbing: You can climb one-half your speed as a 
move action by accepting a—5 penalty on your Climb check. _ 

Crawling: You can crawl 5 feet as a move action. Crawling 
incurs attacks of opportunity from any attackers who threaten you 
at any point of your crawl. 


Drawing a weapon so that you can use it in combat, or putting it 
away so that you have a free hand, requires a move action. This 
action also applies to weaponlike objects carried in easy reach, 
such as wands. If your weapon or weaponlike object is stored in a 
pack or otherwise out of easy reach, treat this action as retrieving a 
stored item. 

If you have a base attack bonus of +1 or higher, you may draw a 
weapon as a free action combined with a regular move. If you have 
the Two-Weapon Fighting feat (page 102), you can draw two light 
or one-handed weapons in the time it would normally take you to 
draw one. = 

Drawing ammunition for use with a ranged weapon (such as 
arrows, bolts, sling bullets, or shuriken) is a free action. 


Ready or Loose a Shield 


Strapping a shield to your arm to gain its shield bonus to your 


SPEEDING UP COMBAT 
You can use a few tricks to make combat run faster. 

Attack and Damage: Roll your attack die and damage die (or dice) at 
the same time. If you miss, you can ignore the damage, but if you hit, 
your friends don’t have to wait for you to make a second roll for damage. 

Multiple Attacks: Use dice of different colors so you can make 
your attack rolls all at once instead of one at a time. Designate 


which attack is which color before you roll. 


Dice as Counters: Use dice to keep track of how many rounds a 
short-duration magical effect has been active. Each round, turn the die 


to the next number until the effect ends. 


Concealment Rolls: If you know what your chance to miss is because 
of your target’s concealment, you can roll it along with your attack roll. 
If the concealment roll indicates a miss, just gnore the attack roll. 


Full Attack 


If you get more than one attack per round because your base 


AC, or unstrapping and dropping a shield so you can use your 
shield hand for another purpose, requires.a move action. If you 
have a base attack bonus of +1 or higher, you can ready or loose 
a shield as a free action combined with a regular move. 
Dropping a carried (but not worn) shield is a free action. | 
+ 
Manipulate an Item } 
|In most cases, moving or manipulating an item is a move action. | 
| This includes retrieving or putting away a stored item, picking up} 
„an item, moving a heavy object, and opening a door. Examples of | 
this kind of action, along with whether they incur an attack of | 
opportunity, are given in Table 8-2: Actions in Combat. 


Direct or Redirect a Spell 

Some spells, such as flaming sphere and spiritual weapon, allow you 
to redirect the effect to new targets or areas after you cast the spell. 
Redirecting a spell requires a move action and does not provoke 
,attacks of opportunity or require concentration (see Cast a Spell | 
under Standard Actions, page 140). L 
Stand Up 

Standing up from a prone position requires a move action and 
provokes attacks of opportunity. 


Mount/Dismount a Steed 


Mounting or dismounting from a steed requires a move action. 
Fast Mount or Dismount: You can mount or dismount as a 
| free action with a DC 20 Ride check (your armor check penalty, if 
Lany, applies to this check). If you fail the check, mounting or dis- 
| mounting is a move action instead. (You can't attempt a fast mount 
Lor fast dismount unless you can perform the mount or dismount 
Las a move action in the current round.) 


FULL-ROUND ACTIONS 


A full-round action requires an entire round to complete. Thus, it 
can't be coupled with a standard or a move action, though if it does 
not involve moving any distance, you can take a 5-foot step. 


—- 


attack bonus is high enough, because you fight with two weapons | 
or a double weapon (see Two-Weapon Fighting under Special 
Attacks, page 160), or for some special reason (such as a feat or a 
magic item), you must use a full-round action to get your addi- 
tional attacks. You do not need to specify the targets of your 
attacks ahead of time. You can see how the earlier attacks turn out 
before assigning the later ones. 

The only movement you can take during a full attack is a 5-foot 
step. You may take the step before, after, or between your attacks. 
If you get multiple attacks because your base attack bonus is 
high enough, you must make the attacks in order from highest 

bonus to lowest. If you are using two weapons, you can strike with 
either weapon first. If you are using a double weapon, you can 
strike with either part of the weapon first. 

Deciding between an Attack or a Full Attack: After your 
first attack, you can decide to take a move action instead of making 
your remaining attacks, depending on how the first attack turns 
out. If you've already taken a 5-foot step, you can’t use your move 
action to move any distance, but you could still use a different 

_kind of move action. z 
Fighting Defensively as a Full-Round Action: You can 
choose to fight defensively when taking a full attack action. If you 
|do so, you take a —4 penalty on all attacks in a round to gain a +2 
‘dodge bonus to AC for the same round. _ 
| Cleave: The extra attack granted by the Cleave feat (page 92) or 
Great Cleave feat (page 94) can be taken whenever they apply. This | 
is an exception to the normal limit to the number of attacks you | 


Cast a Spell 


„casting a spell as a full-round action). These actions must be con- 
l secutive and uninterrupted, or the spell automatically fails. 


can take when not using a full attack action. | 
$ 


A spell that takes 1 round to cast is a full-round action. It comes | 


Linto effect just before the beginning of your turn in the round 
after you began casting the spell. You then act normally after the 
\spell is completed. 


A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before 
your turn 1 minute later (and for each of those 10 rounds, you are. 


t 


When you begin a spell that takes 1 round or longer to cast, you 
must continue the invocations, gestures, and concentration from 
one round to just before your turn in the next round (at least). If, 
you lose concentration after starting the spell and before it is com- | 
plete, you lose the spell. 

You only provoke attacks of opportunity when you begin cast- 


ling a spell, even though you might continue casting for at least, 
tone full round. While casting a spell, you don't threaten any, 
{squares around you. 


This action is otherwise identical to the cast a spell action de- , 
scribed under Standard Actions. | 

Casting a Metamagic Spell: Sorcerers and bards must take 
more time to cast a metamagic spell (one enhanced by a meta- 
magic feat) than a regular spell. If a spell’s normal casting time is 1 
standard action, casting a metamagic version of the spell is a full- | 
round action for a sorcerer or bard. Note that this isn't the same as | 


|a spell with a 1-round casting time—the spell takes effect in the |- 


same round that you begin casting, and you aren't required to con- | 
tinue the invocations, gestures, and concentration until your next | 
turn. For spells with a longer casting time, it takes an extra full- | 
round action to cast the metamagic spell. SS 

Clerics must take more time to spontaneously cast a metamagic 4 
version of a cure or inflict spell. For instance, an 11th-level cleric 
can swap out a prepared 6th-level spell to cast an empowered cure 
critical wounds. Spontaneously casting a metamagic version of a 
spell with a casting time of 1 standard action is a full-round action, 
and spells with longer casting times take an extra full-round 
action to cast. 


Use Special Ability 


Using a special ability is usually a standard action, but some may 
be full-round actions, as defined by the ability. See Special Abili- 
ties, page 180, and the Use Special Ability action under Standard 
Actions, page 142. 


Withdraw 


Withdrawing from melee combat isa full-round action. When you 
withdraw, you can move up to double your speed. The square you 
start out in is not considered threatened by any opponent you can 
see, and therefore visible enemies do not get attacks of opportu- 
nity against you when you move from that square. (Invisible ene- 
mies still get attacks of opportunity against you, and you can't 
withdraw from combat if youre blinded.) You can’t take a 5-foot 
step during the same round in which you withdraw. 

If, during the process of withdrawing, you move out of a threat- 
ened square (other than the one you started in), enemies get | 
attacks of opportunity as normal. 
you don't have a listed speed. For example, a ee Seams has j 
_a listed climb speed, so it can withdraw by climbing away. Your | 
character doesn't normally have a listed climb speed (unless you're | 
under the effect of a spider climb spell, for example), so you can't use t 
climbing to withdraw from combat. 

Note that despite the name of this action, you don't actually 


‘have to leave combat entirely. For instance, you could move 


away from one enemy and toward another. 


end 


-r 


-r e 


$ 


t 


moving, so the yeti doesn’ tee a an ati 
ofopportunity when she leaves his thre 


ded 


Tordek Pon doing nothing but moving. When withdrawing, the 
Square you Start in is not considered tobea threatened square, so Tordek 
doesn’t provoke attacks of opportunity when he leaves square B. When he 
leaves nee Cyhowever, whe hobgoblin can attack him. 


1 Square = 5 feet 
p E7 


Restricted Withdraw: If you are limited to taking only a stan- 


„dard action each round (for instance, if you have been slowed or 
| during a surprise round), you can withdraw as a standard action. 
‘In this case, you may move up to your speed (rather than up to 


double your speed). 


Run 


You can run as a full-round action. (If you do, you do not also get al 
5-foot step.) When you run, you can move up to four times your | 
speed in a straight line (or three times your speed if youre in. 
heavy armor). You lose any Dexterity bonus to AC since you can't 
avoid attacks, unless you have the Run feat (page 99), which allows 
you to keep your Dexterity bonus to AC when running. 

You can run for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution 
score, but after that you must make a DC 10 Constitution check to 
continue running. You must check again each round in which you 


„continue to run, and the DC of this check increases by 1 for each 


$ 


icheck you have made. When you fail this check, you must stop 
running. A character who has run to his limit must rest for 1 


_minute (10 rounds) before running again. During a rest period, a 


M 


character can move no faster than a normal move action. 

You can't run across difficult terrain (see page 148), or if you 
can't see where you're going. 

Arun represents a speed of about 12 miles per hour for an unen- 
cumbered human. 


ove 5 Feet through Difficult Terrain 
In some situations, your movement may be so hampered that you 


don't have sufficient speed even to move 5 feet (a single square). In 


t 


} 


such a case, you may spend a full-round action to move 5 feet (4 
square) in any direction, even diagonally. Even though this looks 
like a 5-foot step, it’s not, and thus it provokes attacks of opportu- 


nity normally. (You can't take advantage of this rule to move 


‚through impassable terrain or to move when all movement is pro- 


hibited to you, such as while paralyzed.) 


+ 


— + 


FREE ACTIONS 


4+ 


Drop an Item 


¡slow creature. _ 


Free actions don't take any time at all, though your DM may limit 
the number of free actions you can perform in a turn. Free actions | 
rarely incur attacks of opportunity. Some common free actions are | 


described below. 


Dropping an item in your space or into an adjacent square is a free 
action. 


Drop Prone l } 


Dropping to a prone position in your space is a free action, 


Speak | 


In general, speaking is a free action that you can perform even | 
when it isnt your turn. Some DMs may rule that a character can 


only speak on his turn, or that a character can't speak while flat- 
[footed (and thus can't warn allies of a surprise threat until he has a, 
chance to act). Speaking more than few sentences is generally be- 
_yond the limit of a free action; to communicate more information 


than that, your DM may require that you take a move action or 
even a full-round action. 


Cease Concentration on Spell 


You can stop concentrating on an active spell (such as detect evi I) as 
a free action. 


Cast a Quickened Spell 


4 
You can cast a quickened spell (see the Quicken Spell feat, page | 
98) or any spell whose casting time is designated as a free action | 
(such as the feather fall spell) as a free action. Only one such spell} 
can be cast in any round, and such spells don’t count toward your | 
normal limit of one spell per round. Casting a spell with a casting | 
time of a free action doesn't incur an attack of opportunity. 


MISCELLANEOUS ACTIONS 


Some actions don't fit neatly into the above categories. Some of 
these options are actions that take the place of or are variations on 
the actions described under Standard Actions, Move Actions, and 
Full-Round Actions. For actions not covered below, the DM lets 
you know how long such an action takes to perform and whether 
doing so provokes attacks of opportunity from threatening en- 
emies. The variant and special attacks mentioned here are covered 
under Special Attacks, page 154. 


Take 5-Foot Step 


You can move 5 feet in any round when you don't perform any 
other kind of movement. Taking this 5-foot step never provokes an 
attack of opportunity. You can't take more than one 5-foot step in a 
round, and you can't take a 5-foot step in the same round when you 
move any distance. 

You can take a 5-foot step before, during, or after your other ac- 
tions in the round. For example, you could draw a weapon (a move 
action), take a 5-foot step, and then attack (a standard action), or 
you could cast fireball (a standard action), take a 5-foot step 
through an open door, then close the door (a move action). 

You can only take a 5-foot-step if your movement isn’t, 
hampered by difficult terrain (see page 148) or darkness. Any | 
creature with a speed of 5 feet or less can't take a 5-foot step, | 
since moving even 5 feet requires a move action for such al 


You may not take a 5-foot step using a form of movement fa] | 


which you do not have a listed speed. For example, if you don't | 


‘have a climb speed listed, you can't use climbing to make a 5-foot 
| step. Similarly, you can't take a 5-foot step when swimming unless 
{you have a listed swim speed. 


J-Foot Step 


Mialee takes a5- a5 foot step away from the _ 
hobgoblin tnd th then casts magic missile. 


4 
| and Tordek used Ty we to 
avoid attacks of opportunity. 


lro foot reach] 


1 Square = 5 feet 


Use Feat 
Certain feats, such as Whirlwind Attack, dat you take special 
\actions in combat. Other feats do not require actions themselves, 
but they give you a bonus when attempting something you can 
already do, such as Improved Disarm. Some feats, such as item cre- 


ation feats, are not meant to be used within the framework of | 
combat. The individual feat descriptions in Chapter 5 tell you, 


what you need to know about them. 


Use Skill 
Most skill uses are standard actions, but some might be move 
actions, full-round actions, free actions, or something else entirely. 
The individual skill descriptions in Chapter 4 tell you what sorts 
of actions are required to perform skills. 


Your hit points measure how hard you are to kill. No matter how 
{many hit points you lose, your character isn't hindered in any way 
_until your hit points drop to 0 or lower. 


LOSS OF HIT POINTS 


The most common way that your character gets hurt is to take 
lethal damage and lose hit points, whether from an orc’s falchion, a 
wizard’ lightning bolt spell, or a fall into molten lava. You record 
your character’s hit point total on your character sheet. As your 
character takes damage, you subtract that damage from your hit 
points, leaving you with your current hit points. Current hit points 
_go down when you take damage and go back up when you recover. 
| What Hit Points Represent: Hit points mean two things in 
ithe game world: the ability to take physical punishment and keep 


_\going, and the ability to turn a serious blow into a less serious one. 
|For some characters, hit points may represent divine favor or 
_inner power. When a paladin survives a fireball, you will be hard 


pressed to convince bystanders that she doesn’t have the favor of | 


some higher power. 


— 
— + 


4 


| 
+ 


Damaging Helpless Defenders: Even if you have lots of hit. 
points, a dagger through the eye is a dagger through the eye. | 
When a character is helpless, meaning that he can't avoid damage | 
or deflect blows somehow, he’s in trouble (see Helpless Defenders, 
page 153). 

Effects of Hit Point Damage: Damage gives you scars, bangs 


Lup your armor, and gets blood on your tunic, but it doesn’t slow 


you down until your current hit points reach 0 or lower. 

At 0 hit points, you're disabled. 

At from —1 to -9 hit points, you're dying. 

At —10 or lower, you're dead. 

Massive Damage: If you ever sustain damage so so massive that a 
single attack deals 50 points of damage or more and it doesn't kill you 
outright, you must make a DC 15 Fortitude save. If this saving throw, 
fails, you die regardless of your current hit points. This amount of | 
damage represents a single trauma so major that it has a chance to 


+ 


t 
4 


_kill even the toughest creature. If you take 50 points of damage or 
{more from multiple attacks, no one of which dealt 50 or more points , 
of damage itself, the massive damage rule does not apply. | 


D 


ISABLED (0 HIT POINTS) 


When your current hit points drop to exactly 0, you're disabled. | 
You're not unconscious, but you're close to it. You can only take a 
single move or standard action each turn (but not both, nor can you 
take full-round actions). You can take move actions without further 
injuring yourself, but if you perform any standard action (or any. 


¿actions such as casting a quickened spell) y you take. 1 point of | 


damage after the completing the act. Unless your activity increased | 
your hit points, you are now at —1 hit points, and you're dying] 

Healing that raises your hit points above 0 makes you fully | 
functional again, just as if youd never been reduced to 0 or fewer | 
hit points. A spellcaster retains the spellcasting capability she had | 
before dropping to 0 hit points. 

You can also become disabled when recovering from dying. In 
this case, it’s a step toward recovery, and you can have fewer than 0 
hit points (see Stable Characters and Recovery, below). — 


DYING (_1 TO -9 HIT POINTS) 


D 


When your character's current hit points drop to between —1 and 
-9 inclusive, he’s dying. 

A dying character immediately falls unconscious and can take 
no actions. 

A dying character loses 1 hit point every round. This continues 
until the character dies or becomes stable (see below). 


EAD (-10 HIT POINTS OR LOWER) 


When your character's current hit points drop to —10 or lower, or 
if he takes massive damage (see above), he’s dead. A character can 
also die from taking ability damage or suffering an ability drain 
that reduces his Constitution to 0. When a character dies, his soul 
immediately departs. Getting it back into the body is a major 
hassle (see Bringing Back the Dead, page 171). 


STABLE CHARACTERS AND RECOVERY 


+ 


On the next turn after a character is reduced to between —1 and —9 
hit points and on all subsequent turns, roll d% to see whether the | 
one character becomes stable. He has a 10% chance of becoming, 
scious or r dying ant use se any special action that changes the initia- ] 
itive count on which his action occurs.) | 

If the character’s hit points drop to —10 or lower, he's. dead. | 

You can keep a dying character from losing any more hit points t 
‘and make him stable with a DC 15 Heal check. 

If any sort of healing cures the dying character of even 1 point 


Lof damage, he stops losing hit points and becomes stable. 


Healing that raises the dying character's hit points to 0 makes 


P46 


him conscious and disabled. Healing that raises his hit points to 
1 or more makes him fully functional again, just as if he'd never 
been reduced to 0 or lower. A spellcaster retains the spellcasting 
capability she had before dropping below 0 hit points. 


A stable character who has been tended by a healer or who. 
has been magically healed eventually regains consciousness and | 


‚recovers hit points naturally, If the character has no one to tend | 
him, however, his life is still in danger, and he may yet slip away., 

|__ Recovering with Help: One hour after a tended, dying character | 
becomes stable, roll d%. He has a 10% chance of becoming conscious, | 
[at which point he is disabled (as if he had 0 hit points). If he remains | 

junconscious, he has the same chance to revive and become disabled 

_every hour. Even if unconscious, he recovers hit points naturally. He 
is back to normal when his hit points rise to 1 or higher. 

Recovering without Help: A severely wounded character left 
alone usually dies. He has a small chance, however, of recovering 

¡on his own. Even if he seems as though he's pulling through, he 
pcan still finally succumb to his wounds hours or days after origi- 
nally taking damage. 

A character who becomes stable on his own (by making the 10% | 
roll while dying) and who has no one to tend to him still loses hit, 
points, just at a slower rate. He has a 10% chance each hour of 
becoming conscious. Each time he misses his hourly roll to be- 
come conscious, he loses 1 hit point. He also does not recover hit 
points through natural healing. 

Even once he becomes conscious and is disabled, an unaided 
character still does not recover hit points naturally. Instead, each 

| day he has a 10% chance to start recovering hit points naturally 
| (starting with that day); otherwise, he loses 1 hit point. 

| Once an unaided character starts recovering hit points natu- 
irally, he is no longer in danger of naturally losing hit points (even 
lif his current hit point total is negative). 


HEALING 


‘After taking damage, you can recover hit points through natural 
healing or through magical healing. In any case, you can't regain 
hit points past your full normal hit point total. 

Natural Healing: With a full night’s rest (8 hours of sleep or. 


5th-level fighter recovers 5 hit points with a night. of rest. Any sig-| : 


nificant interruption (such as combat or the like) during your rest. 
prevents you from healing that night. 

If you undergo complete bed rest for an entire day and night, 
you recover twice your character level in hit points. A 5th-level 
fighter recovers 10 hit points per 24 hours of bed rest. 

Magical Healing: Various abilities and spells, such as a cleric’s 
cure spells or a paladin’s lay on hands ability, can restore hit points. 

Healing Limits: You can never recover more hit points than 

_you lost. Magical healing won't raise your current hit points 

higher than your full normal hit point total. 

| Healing Ability Damage: Ability damage is temporary, just as 
hit point damage is. Ability damage returns at the rate of 1 point 
per night of rest (8 hours) for each affected ability score. Complete 
bed rest restores 2 points per day (24 hours) for each affected abil- 
ity score. 


TEMPORARY HITPOINTS —ŽŻ 


Certain effects, such as the aid spell, give a character temporary hit 

points. When a character gains temporary hit points, note his cur- 
_rent hit point total. When the temporary hit points go away, such 
Las at the end of the aid spell’s duration, the character's hit points 
\drop to his current hit point total. If the character’s hit points are 

below his current hit point total at that time, all the temporary hit 
points have already been lost and the character’s hit point total 
_does not drop further. 


When temporary hit points are lost, they cannot be restored as | 


real hit points can be, even by magic. ] 


Increases in Constitution Score and Current Hit Points: 
An increase in a character’s Constitution score, even a temporary | 
one, can give her more hit points (an effective hit point increase), | 
but these are not temporary hit points. They can be restored, such | 

Las with cure light wounds, and they are not lost first as temporary hit 
points are. For example, Krusk (now a 3rd-level barbarian) gains 
\+4 to his Constitution score and +6 hit points when he rages, rais- 
ing his hit points from 31 to 37. If Krusk takes damage dropping 
him to 32 hit points, Jozan can cure those lost points and get him | 
‚back to 37. If Krusk is so wounded at the end of his rage that he | 
‘only has 5 hit points left, then when he loses his 6 extra hit points, ] 
he drops to —1 hit points and is dying. 


NONLETHAL DAMAGE 


Sometimes you get roughed up or weakened, such as by getting | | 

clocked in a fistfight or tired out by a forced march. This sort of 
trauma wont kill you, but it can knock you out or make you faint. 
| If you take sufficient nonlethal damage, you fall unconscious, , 
but you don't die. Nonlethal damage goes away much faster than. 
lethal damage does. 

Dealing Nonlethal Damage: Certain attacks deal nonlethal 
damage, such as a normal human's unarmed strike (a punch, kick, , 
or head butt). Other effects, such as heat or being exhausted, also 
deal nonlethal damage. When you take nonlethal damage, keep a 
running total of how much you've accumulated. Do not deduct the 
nonlethal damage number from your current hit points. It is not “real” 
damage. Instead, when your nonlethal damage equals your cur-_ 

irent hit points, you're staggered, and when it exceeds your current | 
hit points, you fall unconscious. It doesn’t matter whether the | 
nonlethal damage equals or exceeds your current hit points. 
because the nonlethal damage has gone up or because your cur-, 
rent hit points have gone down. s 

Nonlethal Damage with a Weapon that Deals Lethal Damage: You! 
can use a melee weapon that deals lethal damage to deal nonlethal 
damage instead, but you take a —4 penalty on your attack roll be- 
cause you have to use the flat of the blade, strike at nonvital areas, 
or check your swing. 

Lethal Damage with a Weapon that Deals Nonlethal Da Damage: You 
can use a weapon that deals nonlethal damage, including an un- 
armed strike, to deal lethal damage instead, but you take a —4 
penalty on your attack roll because you have to strike only in the 
most vulnerable areas to inflict lethal damage. 

Staggered and Unconscious: When your nonlethal damage 
equals your current hit points, you're staggered. You're so roughed 
up that you can only take a standard action or a move action in 
each round. You cease being staggered when your current hit 
points once again exceed your nonlethal damage. 

When your nonlethal damage exceeds your current hit points, 
you fall unconscious. While unconscious, you are helpless (see 
Helpless Defenders, page 153). 

Spellcasters who fall unconscious retain any spellcasting ability 
they had before going unconscious. 

Healing Nonlethal Damage: You heal nonlethal damage at 
the rate of 1 hit point per hour per character level. For example, a 
7th-level wizard heals 7 points of nonlethal damage each hour 
until all the nonlethal damage is gone. 

When a spell or a magical power cures hit point damage, it also | 
removes an equal amount of nonlethal damage. 


MOVEMENT, POSITION; 


4 


TAND DISTANCE 


(Few characters in a fight stand around motionless. Enemies 
lappear and charge the party. The heroes reply, advancing to take 
on new foes after they down their first opponents. Wizards remain 
outside the fight, looking for the best place to use their magic. 


-. > a od. “ ra f 
A - Ye k- “e ie ees yd ia hoo 
> + we = z 
k m a ATi 


" Ys 


Rogues quietly skirt the fracas seeking a straggler or an unwary 
opponent to strike with a sneak attack. Finally, if the fight is lost, 
most characters seek to remove themselves from the vicinity. 
Movement is an important element for gaining the upper hand on 
the battlefield. 

Duncgons & Dracons miniatures are on the 30mm scale—a 
miniature figure of a six-foot-tall human is approximately 30mm 
tall. A square on the battle grid is 1 inch across, representing a 5- 
foot-by-5-foot area. 


TACTICAL MOVEMENT 


Where you can move, how long it takes you to get there, and 
whether you're vulnerable to attacks of opportunity while you're 
moving are key questions in combat. 


How Far Can Your Character Move? 


Your speed is determined by your race and your armor (see Table 
8-3: Tactical Speed). Your speed while unarmored is your base 
land speed. 

Encumbrance: A character encumbered by carrying a large 
amount of gear, treasure, or fallen comrades may move slower 
than normal (see Carrying Capacity, page 161). 

Hampered Movement: Difficult terrain, obstacles, or poor vis- 
ibility can hamper movement (see Terrain and Obstacles, below, 
and Hampered Movement, page 163). 

Movement in Combat: Generally, you can move your speed in 
around and still do something, such as swing an axe or cast a spell. 
Ifyou do nothing but move (that is, if you use both of your actions 
in a round to move your speed), you can move double your speed. 
If you spend the entire round running, you can move quadruple 
your speed. If you do something that requires a full round, such as 
attacking more than once, you can only take a 5-foot step. 

Bonuses to Speed: A barbarian has a +10 foot bonus to his 
speed (unless he’s wearing heavy armor). Experienced monks 
also have higher speed (unless they’re wearing armor of any 
sort). In addition, many spells and magic items can affect a char- 
acter’s speed. Always apply any modifiers to a character’s speed 
before adjusting the character’s speed based on armor or encum- 
brance, and remember that multiple bonuses of the same type to 
a character’s speed (such as enhancement bonuses) don't stack. 


TABLE 8—3: TACTICAL SPEED 


Medium or 
Heavy Armor 
20 ft.(4 squares) 
20 ft.(4 squares) 
15 ft.(3 squares) 


No Armor or 
Race Light Armor 
Human, elf, half-elf, half-orc 30 ft.(6 squares) 
Dwarf 20 ft.(4 squares) 
Halfling, gnome 20 ft.(4 squares) 


Measuring Distance 

Diagonals: When measuring distance, the first diagonal 
counts as 1 square, the second counts as 2 squares, the third counts 
as 1, the fourth as 2, and so on. (If it helps, you can think of a diag- 
onal as a distance of 1.5 squares.) 

You can't move diagonally past a corner (even by taking a 5-foot 
step). You can move diagonally past a creature, even an opponent. 
You can also move diagonally past other impassable obstacles, 
such as pits. 

Closest Creature: When it’s important to determine the clos- 
est square or creature to a location, if two squares or creatures are 
equally close, randomly determine which one counts as closest by 
rolling a die. 


Moving through a Square 

Friend: You can move through a square occupied by a friendly 
character, unless you are charging (see page 154). When you move 
through a square occupied by a friendly character, that character 
doesn't provide you with cover (see page 150). 


ga 2 > Seating Ae 
“s, Ti, gaa wr 


Ifyou move or count 


j (a AN 
ssquaresi f 
gnoll JA © distance diagonally, 


thefirst diagonal'counts as 4 
rsquare of movement [5 feet], 
the second as 2 squares | [ro feet], 
the third'as 1 square, the fourth as 
‘rsquares, and so.on.[Ifit helps;you'can 
| think ofa diagonal as a distance 
Of I.5, squares or 7.5 feet.] The gnoll, 
with a speed of 6 squares, can move 
4 squares diagonally [which counts as 
6 squares of movement] and attack Regdar. 


Regdar ` 


Opponent: You can't move through a square occupied by an op- 
ponent, unless the opponent is helpless (dead, unconscious, para- 
lyzed, bound, or the like). You can move through a square occu- 
pied by a helpless opponent without penalty. (The DM may rule 
that some creatures, such as an enormous dragon, present an 


A'creature or character 

can’t moye diagonally, 

past acorner. 

It costs a Small or 

. | Medium'creature) 
Re gdar only 2 squares [ro feet] 
to move around a corner, 
while a'Large creature has to use 3 squares 

[rs,feet] ofmovement to move around 'a corner., 


- Moving 
around Corners 


PO ts e SMR APS Ae they 
opens or. ae er OS ee A BEDA aat aT 


am 


obstacle even when helpless. In such cases, each square you move 
through counts as 2 squares.) 

Ending Your Movement: You can't end your movement in the 
same square as another creature unless it is helpless. 

Overrun: During your movement, you can attempt to move 
through a square occupied by an opponent (see Overrun, page 157). 

Tumbling: A trained character can attempt to tumble through 
a square occupied by an opponent (see the Tumble skill, page 84). 

Very Small Creature: A Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creature can 
move into or through an occupied square. The creature provokes 
attacks of opportunity when doing so. 

Square Occupied by Creature Three Sizes Larger or Smaller: 
Any creature can move through a square occupied by a creature 
three size categories larger than it is. A gnome (Small), for 
example, can run between the legs of a cloud giant (Huge). 

A big creature can move through a square occupied by a crea- 
ture three size categories smaller than it is. A cloud giant, for 
example, can step over a gnome. 

Designated Exceptions: Some creatures break the above 
rules. For example, a gelatinous cube fills the squares it occupies 
to a height of 15 feet. A creature can’t move through a square 
occupied by a cube, even with the Tumble skill or similar special 
abilities. 


Terrain and Obstacles 


The rules presented so far in this section assume that you're 
moving through an area clear of obstacles or difficult terrain. 
However, in dungeons and wilderness areas, that’s often not the 
case. 

Difficult Terrain: Difficult terrain, such as rubble, an uneven 
cave floor, thick undergrowth, and the like, hamper movement. 
Each square of difficult terrain counts as 2 squares of movement. 
(Each diagonal move into a difficult terrain square counts as 3 
squares.) You can't run or charge across difficult terrain. 

If you occupy squares with different kinds of terrain, you can 
move only as fast as the most difficult terrain you occupy will 


Be Difficult terrain; such as'rubble, uneven. ~ 
cave floors, and thick undergrowth, 
slows inovement. Each square counts as 
z squares [10 feet] of movement, 


sand each diagonal moyecounts, = 


as 3 squares [15 feet] just as 2 diagonal 
moves normally do. f 


Difficult Terrain 


Moving and Other Creatures 


A character or creature can move through a square occupied by a friendly 
: H 
character or creature, but it can’t end its move in an occupied square, 
— =, — 


and it can’t charge through that square, either) You can’t move through 
asquare occupied bya nonfriendly or hostile creature. 
l | 


allow. (This is often significant for creatures whose space fills 
more than one square, such as a giant.) 

Flying and incorporeal creatures are not hampered by difficult 
terrain. 

Obstacles: Like difficult terrain, obstacles can hamper move- 
ment. If an obstacle hampers movement but doesn’t completely 
block it, such as a low wall or a deadfall of branches, each 
obstructed square or obstacle between squares counts as 2 squares 
of movement. You must pay this cost to cross the barrier, in addi- 
tion to the cost to move into the square on the other side. If you 
don't have sufficient movement to cross the barrier and move into 
the square on the other side, you can't cross the barrier. Some obsta- 
cles may also require a skill check to cross (such as Climb or Jump). 

On the other hand, some obstacles, such as floor-to-ceiling 
walls, block movement entirely. A character can't move through a 
blocking obstacle. 

Flying and incorporeal creatures can avoid most obstacles, 
though a floor-to-ceiling wall blocks a flying creature as well as a 
landbound creature. 

Squeezing: In some cases, you may have to squeeze into or 
through an area that isn't as wide as the space you take up. (This is 
particularly true for creatures whose space fills more than one 
square, such as a giant.) You can squeeze through or into a space 
that is at least half as wide as your normal space. For instance, an 
ogre (whose space is 10 feet, or 2 squares, wide) can squeeze 
through or into a space at least 5 feet (1 square) wide. Each move 
into or through a narrow space counts as if it were 2 squares, and 
while squeezed in a narrow space you take a —4 penalty on attack 
rolls and a —4 penalty to AC. 

When a Large creature (which normally takes up four squares) 
squeezes into a space that’s one square wide, the creature's minia- 
ture figure occupies two squares, centered on the line between the 
two squares. For a bigger creature, center the creature likewise in 
the area it squeezes into. 

A creature can squeeze past an opponent while moving but it 
can't end its movement in an occupied square. 

To squeeze through or into a space less than half your space’s 
width, you must use the Escape Artist skill (page 73). You can't 
attack while using Escape Artist to squeeze through or into a 
narrow space, you take a —4 penalty to AC, and you lose any Dex- 
terity bonus to AC. 


Special Movement Rules 


These rules cover special movement situations. 

Accidentally Ending Movement in an Illegal Space: Some- 
times a character ends its movement while moving through a 
space where it’s not allowed to stop. For example, you might incur 
an attack of opportunity from a monk while moving through a 
friend's square and become stunned. When that happens, put your 
miniature in the last legal position you occupied, or the closest 
legal position, if there's a legal position that’s closer. 


SqueezingyMovement 


The ogre can move away, from\Iordek by squeezing into 

fn, eer m we 
thes-footwide corr corridor. Each'square it moves intowhile 
squeezing counts as zsquares {10 feet] of movement: - 
The ogre can also move through i its own ally, theg gnoll, 
but it must move at least 4 squares [20 feet], since.it can’t 
endits movement in'an occupied square. 


The ogre can also move 1 square [5,feet] toward Tordek; 
or squeeze past Tordek to the Sacdesridor beyond 


Double Movement Cost: When your movement is hampered 
in some way, your movement usually costs double. For example, 
each square of movement through difficult terrain counts as 2 
squares, and each diagonal move through such terrain counts as 3 
squares (just as two diagonal moves normally do). 

If movement cost is doubled twice, then each square counts as 4 
squares (or as 6 squares if moving diagonally). If movement cost is 
doubled three times, then each square counts as 8 squares (12 if 
diagonal) and so on. This is an exception to the general rule that 
two doublings are equivalent to a tripling. 

Minimum Movement: Despite penalties to movement, you can 
take a full-round action to move 5 feet (1 square) in any direction, 
even diagonally. (This rule doesn't allow you to move through im- 
passable terrain or to move when all movement is prohibited, such as 
while paralyzed.) Such movement provokes attacks of opportunity 
as normal (despite the distance covered, this move isn't a 5-foot step). 


BIG AND LITTLE CREATURES IN COMBAT 


Creatures smaller than Small or larger than Medium have special 
rules relating to position. This section covers the basics; the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide has more information on how to handle 
exceptionally big or small creatures. The illustration on the fol- 
lowing page depicts creatures of various size categories. 

Tiny, Diminutive, and Fine Creatures: Very small creatures 
take up less than 1 square of space. This means that more than one 
such creature can fit into a single square. For example, a Tiny crea- 
ture (such as a cat) typically occupies a space only 2-1/2 feet across, 
so four can fit into a single square. Twenty-five Diminutive crea- 
tures or 100 Fine creatures can fit into a single square. 

Creatures that take up less than 1 square of space typically have a 
natural reach of 0 feet, meaning they can't reach into adjacent 
squares. They must enter an opponent's square to attack in melee. 
This provokes an attack of opportunity from the opponent. You can 
attack into your own square if you need to, so you can attack such 
creatures normally. Since they have no natural reach, they do not 


threaten the squares around them. You can move past them without 
provoking attacks of opportunity. They also can't flank an enemy. 

Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and Colossal Creatures: Very 
large creatures take up more than 1 square. For instance, an ogre 
(Large) takes up a space 10 feet on a side (2 squares wide). 

Creatures that take up more than 1 square typically have a natu- 
ral reach of 10 feet or more, meaning that they can reach targets 
even if they aren't in adjacent squares. For instance, an ogre can 
attack targets up to 10 feet (2 squares) away from it in any direc- 
tion, even diagonally. (This is an exception to the rule that 2 
squares of diagonal distance is measured as 15 feet.) 

Unlike when someone uses a reach weapon, a creature with 
greater than normal natural reach (more than 5 feet) still threat- 


TABLE 8—4: CREATURE SIZE AND SCALE 


Creature Example 
Size Creature Space! Natural Reach! 
Fine Fly 1/2 ft. 0 
Diminutive Toad al it; 0 
Tiny Cat 2-1/2 ft 0 
Small Halfling 5 ft. 5 ft. 
Medium Human Site. 5 ft. 
Large (tall) Ogre 10 ft. 10 ft. 
Large (long) Horse 10 ft. 5 ft. 
Huge (tall) Cloud giant 15 ft. 15 ft. 
Huge (long) Bulette 15 ft. 10 ft. 
Gargantuan (tall) _50-ft. animated 20 ft. 20 ft. 
statue 
Gargantuan (long) Kraken 20 ft. 15 ft. 
Colossal (tall) Colossal animated 30 ft. 30 ft. 
object or more or more 
Colossal (long) Great wyrm 30 ft. 20 ft. 
red dragon or more or more 


1 These values are typical for creatures of the indicated size. Some 
exceptions exist. 


}/_ens squares adjacent to it. A creature with greater than 
normal natural reach usually gets an attack of opportunity 
against you if you approach it, because you must enter and move | 
within the range of its reach before you can attack it. (This attack 

of opportunity is not provoked if you take a 5-foot step.) 
Large or larger creatures using reach weapons can strike up to 
double their natural reach but can't strike at their natural reach 
or less. For example, an ogre with a Large longspear could strike 
with the longspear at opponents 15 or 20 feet away, but not at 
those 5 or 10 feet away. 


Sometimes you just have to go toe-to-toe in a fight, but you can | 
usually gain some advantage by seeking a better position, either 
offensively or defensively. This section covers the rules for when 


you can line up a particularly good attack or are forced to make a 
disadvantageous one. 


FAVORABLE AND 
UNFAVORABLE CONDITIONS 


Depending on the situation, you may gain bonuses or take penal-_ 
ties on your attack roll. Generally, any situational modifier created 
by the attacker's position or tactics applies to the attack roll, while 
any situational modifier created by the defender’s position, state, 
or tactics applies to the defender’s AC. Your DM judges what 
bonuses and penalties apply, using Table 8-5: Attack Roll Modi- 
fiers and Table 8—6: Armor Class Modifiers as guides. 


=T 
a COVER 
PRIA One of the best defenses available is cover. By 
Fo Oe wi X taking cover behind a tree, a wall, the side of a 
Pis a wagon, or the battlements of a castle, you can 
i = a protect yourself from attacks, especially ranged 
y En # á attacks, and also from being spotted. 

To determine whether your target has 
cover from your ranged attack, choose a 
corner of your square. If any line from 
this corner to any corner of the target's 
square passes through a square or border 
that blocks line of effect or provides 
cover, or through a square occupied by a 
creature, the target has cover (+4 to 
AC). 

Creature Size 
Categories 


Colossal Huge Large Medium Small Tiny 


z ny es Be 
i i: nig a 


~ AF 
R 


TABLE 8—5: ATTACK ROLL MODIFIERS 


Attacker is... Melee Ranged 
Dazzled -1 -1 
Entangled -2! -2! 
Flanking defender +2 — 
Invisible +2? +2? 
On higher ground +l +0 
Prone —4 — 
Shaken or frightened -2 -2 
Squeezing through a space —4 —4 


1 An entangled character also takes a —4 penalty to Dexterity, which 
may affect his attack roll. 

2 The defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. This bonus doesn’t 
apply if the target is blinded. 

3 Most ranged weapons can’t be used while the attacker is prone, but 
you can use a crossbow or shuriken while prone at no penalty. 


When making a melee attack against an adjacent target, your 
target has cover if any line from your square to the target’s square 
goes through a wall (including a low wall). When making a melee 
attack against a target that isn't adjacent to you (such as with a reach 
weapon), use the rules for determining cover from ranged attacks. 

Low Obstacles and Cover: A low obstacle (such as a wall no 
higher than half your height) provides cover, but only to creatures 


within 30 feet (6 squares) of it. The attacker can ignore the cover if 


he’s closer to the obstacle than his target. 

Cover and Attacks of Opportunity: You can't execute an attack 
of opportunity against an opponent with cover relative to you. 

Cover and Reflex Saves: Cover grants you a +2 bonus on Reflex 
saves against attacks that originate or burst out from a point on the 
other side of the cover from you, such as a red dragon's breath weapon 
ora lightning bolt. Note that spread effects (see page 175), such as a fire- 
ball, can extend around corners and thus negate this cover bonus. 

Cover and Hide Checks: You can use cover to make a Hide 
check. Without cover, you usually need concealment (see below) 
to make a Hide check. 


To determine whether a creature 
has'cover against a ranged attack, 
the attacker chooses a 
E 9 
corner ofits square. 
—* tn camp 
Ifany line from this corner 
<s 
to any,corner of the 
defender’s square crosses 
a square or border that 
u z 
blocks line of sight or q 

ee r 

provides cover, or through l 

asquare occupied by another | 
y f characterjor|creature, 
the defender has cover [+4 bonus to AC]. 


The gnoll receives cover. 
from Regdar Erina to 4C], ł 
= and Liddais shooting into melee, 
Eada Phe receives a -4 penalty on 
A s | i her attack roll}. 
Lidda has line of sight to — 
both the asand the gnoll.) 


a § 


Cover against Ranged Attacks 


TABLE 8—6: ARMOR CLASS MODIFIERS 


Defender is... Melee Ranged 
Behind cover +4 +4 
Blinded -2! -2! 
Concealed or invisible — See Concealment — 
Cowering -2' -2! 
Entangled +0? +0? 
Flat-footed +0! +0! 
(such as surprised, balancing, climbing) 
Grappling (but attacker is not) +0! +013 
Helpless —4* +04 
(such as paralyzed, sleeping, or bound) 
Kneeling or sitting -2 +2 
Pinned —44 +04 
Prone —4 +4 
Squeezing through a space —4 —4 
Stunned -2! -2! 


1 The defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. 

2 An entangled character takes a —4 penalty to Dexterity. 

3 Roll randomly to see which grappling combatant you strike. That 
defender loses any Dexterity bonus to AC. 

4 Treat the defender’s Dexterity as 0 (-5 modifier). Rogues can sneak 
attack helpless or pinned defenders. See also Helpless Defenders, 
page 153. 


Soft Cover: Creatures, even your enemies, can provide you 
with cover against ranged attacks, giving you a +4 bonus to AC. 
However, such soft cover provides no bonus on Reflex saves, nor 
does soft cover allow you to make a Hide check. 

Big Creatures and Cover: Any creature with a space larger 
than 5 feet (1 square) determines cover against melee attacks 
slightly differently than smaller creatures do. Such a creature can 
choose any square that it occupies to determine if an opponent has 
cover against its melee attacks. Similarly, when making a melee 
attack against such a creature, you can pick any of the squares it 
occupies to determine if it has cover against you. 


Cover in Melee 


t 
In melee combat, a enit has cover ifany line from 
the attacker’s space to the defender’s space goes through a wall. 
For example, the orc has cover against Tordek [and vice versa]. 
The gnoll, on the other hand, doesn’t provide the orc or 
Regdar with cover from each other. 


Lattack to which the Reflex save bonus applies (see the improved 
_evasion ability in the rogue class description, page 51). Further- 
more, improved cover provides a +10 bonus on Hide checks. 
The DM may impose other penalties or restrictions to attacks 
depending on the details of the cover. For example, to strike effec- 
„tively through a narrow opening, you need to use a long piercing 
, weapon, such as an arrow or a spear. A battleaxe or a pick just isn't | 


t 


Total Cover: If you don't have line of effect to your target (for 


instance, if he is completely behind a high wall), he is considered 
to have total cover from you. You can't make an attack against a 


target that has total cover. 


Varying Degrees of Cover: In some cases, cover may provide a | 
greater bonus to AC and Reflex saves. For instance, a character | 
peering around a corner or through an arrow slit has even better | 
‘cover than a character standing behind a low wall or an obstacle. In | 
{such situations, the DM can double the normal cover bonuses to, 
AC and Reflex saves (to +8 and +4, respectively). A creature with | 
(this improved cover effectively gains improved evasion against any | 


going to get through an arrow slit. 


CONCEALMENT 


Besides cover, another way to avoid attacks is to make it hard for 


opponents to know where you are. Concealment encompasses all 
circumstances where nothing physically blocks a blow or shot but 
where something interferes with an attacker's accuracy. Conceal- 
ment gives the subject of a successful attack a chance that the 


_attacker missed because of the concealment. 


Typically, concealment is provided by fog, smoke, a shadowy 
\area, darkness, tall grass, foliage, or magical effects that make it dif- 


| ficult to pinpoint a target’s location. 


t 


To determine whether your target has concealment from your 
iranged attack, choose a corner of your square. If any line from this 
‚corner to any corner of the target's square passes through a square 
Lor border that provides concealment, the target has concealment. 
When making a melee attack against an adjacent target, your 


+ 


target has concealment if his space is entirely within an effect that , 
grants concealment (such as a cloud of smoke). When making al 
melee attack against a target that isn’t adjacent to you (for instance, | 
with a reach weapon), use the rules for determining concealment. 


from ranged attacks. 


+ 


whether any intervening concealment exists. 


Concealment Miss Chance: Concealment gives the subject of a, 
successful attack a 20% chance that the attacker missed because of | 
the concealment. If the attacker hits, the defender must make a miss | 
chance percentile roll to avoid being struck. (To expedite play, make 
both rolls at the same time.) Multiple concealment conditions (such 
as a defender in a fog and under the effect of a blur spell) do not stack. , 
Concealment and Hide Checks: You can use concealment to | 
make a Hide check. Without concealment, you usually need cover 


to make a Hide check. 


+ 


miss chance for an opponent with concealment). 


You can't execute an attack of opportunity against an opponent 


ithe opponent peace 


Ignoring Concealment: Concealment isn't always effective. For | 
instance, a shadowy area or darkness doesn't provide any conceal- | 
ment against an opponent with darkvision. Remember also that} 
characters with low-light vision can see clearly for a greater distance | 
with the same light source than other characters. A torch, for | 
example, lets an elf see clearly for 40 feet in all directions from the 
torch, while a human can see clearly for only 20 feet with the same 


By: 
on its opposite side or, mesie corner. 


When in doubt chong whether two characters 

-flank a creature between them) trace imaginary. lines 
‘between the two characters? centers. Tftthese lines 
pass through opposite borders ofthe creature’s space 


[including corners of those borders Jb then the characters 
— -= m. 
| Í 


farc ‘flanking it. 


i ¥ 
i Only,a‘creature that threatens the defender 
canmhelp an attacker get a flanking bonus. 
i a — 
TF a character or:creature. fills more than anione square, 
any square it CREED counts roe seal say 


~Here;. “Regdar and: Tida give each other flanking 
es Jozan gets no bonus because there’s no 

ally on; the opposite side of the orc. Mialee doesn’t 

get the bonus because Tordek is stunned and doesn’t 
threaten the square that the orc occupies. 


In addition, some magical effects (such as the blur and displace- 
iment spells) provide concealment against all attacks, regardless of 


Total Concealment: If you have line of effect to a target but. 
inot line of sight (for instance, if he is in total darkness or invisible, , 
Lor if you're blinded), he is considered to have total concealment 
from you. You can't attack an opponent that has total concealment, 
though you can attack into a square that you think he occupies. A. 
successful attack into a square occupied by an enemy with total 
concealment has a 50% miss chance (instead of the normal 20% 


Penang, Large Creatures, 
and Reach 


cach T 
F 


— 


troll” 


hob goblin 
with ‘to; Soe reach 
py+2 


light. (Fog, smoke, foliage, and other visual obstructions work nor- 
‚mally against characters with darkvision or low-light vision.) 
Although invisibility provides total concealment, sighted oppo- 
nents may still make Spot checks to notice the location of an invis- 
ible character. An invisible character gains a +20 bonus on Hide 
checks if moving, or a +40 bonus on Hide checks when not 
moving (even though opponents can't see you, they might be able , 
to figure out where you are from other visual clues). | 
Varying Degrees of Concealment: As with cover, it’s usually | 
not worth diffentiating between more degrees of concealment. 
than described above. However, the DM may rule that certain situ- 
ations provide more or less than typical concealment, and modify 
the miss chance accordingly. For instance, a light fog might only 
provide a 10% miss chance, while near-total darkness could provide 
a 40% miss chance (and a +10 circumstance bonus on Hide checks). 


FLANKING 


| When making a melee attack, you get a +2 flanking bonus if your 
_opponent is threatened by a character or creature friendly to you 
Lon the opponent's opposite border or opposite corner. 

When in doubt about whether two friendly characters flank an 
opponent in the middle, trace an imaginary line between the two 
friendly characters’ centers. If the line passes through opposite 
borders of the opponent's space (including corners of those bor- 
ders), then the opponent is flanked. 

Exception: If a flanker takes up more than 1 square, it gets the 
flanking bonus if any square it occupies counts for flanking. 

Only a creature or character that threatens the defender can 
help an attacker get a flanking bonus. 

Creatures with a reach of 0 feet can’t flank an opponent. 


HELPLESS DEFENDERS 


LA helpless opponent is someone who is bound, sleeping, para- 
lyzed, unconscious, or otherwise at your mercy. 
Regular Attack: A helpless character takes a —4 penalty to AC | 
against melee attacks, but no penalty to AC against ranged attacks. | 


Ifan attacker occupies more than 
one ne square, it ; Provides a bonus 
ifany,square it occupies counts 

for flanking. 


Te 
Ly 
——E a = 
\ Theogreand troll provide each other 
with flanking bonuses against Tordek. 
The orc and hobgoblin also provide 


each other with flanking bonuses. 


A helpless defender can't use any Dexterity bonus to AC. In fact, | 
his Dexterity score is treated as if it were 0 and his Dexterity mod- 
ifier to AC as if it were —5 (and a rogue can sneak attack him). 
Coup de Grace: As a full-round action, you can use a melee 
weapon to deliver a coup de grace to a helpless opponent. You can 


Flanking, Large Creatures 


Toni and Regdar't are flanking 
the troll. So are) Tordek an and 
OURS DEES 
~ Eidda. Jozan, however, i Sa t flanking 
the troll! The'line from Jozan’ s center 
to Tordek’s center,doesn’t pass 
4 through opposite borders 
the'troll’s spa S space. 


also use a bow or crossbow, provided you are adjacent to the target. 
You automatically hit and score a critical hit. If the defender sur- 
vives the damage, he must make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage 
dealt) or die. A rogue also gets her extra sneak attack damage 


against a helpless opponent when delivering a coup de grace. | 
Delivering a coup de grace provokes attacks of opportunity |_ 
from threatening opponents because it involves focused concen-| 


tration and methodical action on the part of the attacker. | 
| You can't deliver a coup de grace against a creature that is im-} 
¿mune to critical hits, such as a golem. You can deliver a coup del } 
(grace against a creature with total concealment, but doing this | 
| requires two consecutive full-round actions (one to “find” the crea- 
„ture once you've determined what square it’s in, and one to deliver 
the coup de grace). 


| SPECIAL ATTACKS 


¿This section covers grappling, throwing splash weapons (such as + 
acid or holy water), attacking objects (such as trying to hack apart | 
la locked chest), turning or rebuking undead (for clerics and pal-_ 


adins), and an assortment of other special attacks. 


any attack of opportunity by anyone other than you against the de- , 
fender likewise has a 25% chance of accidentally targeting you. | 
(When someone makes an attack of opportunity, make the attack | 
roll and then roll to see whether the attack went astray.) 

Second, you and the defender make opposed Strength checks. | 


{You each add a +4 bonus for each size category you are larger than 
\Medium or a —4 penalty for each size category you are smaller 


than Medium. You get a +2 bonus if you are charging. The de- 
fender gets a +4 bonus if he has more than two legs or is otherwise , 


„exceptionally stable (such as a dwarf). 


Bull Rush Results: If you beat the defender’s Strength check | 
result, you push him back 5 feet. If you wish to move with the de- 
fender, you can push him back an additional 5 feet for each 5 
points by which your check result is greater than the defender’s , 
check result. You can't, however, exceed your normal movement | 
limit. (Note: The defender provokes attacks of opportunity if he is 


moved. So do you, if you move with him. The two of you do not 


| provoke attacks of opportunity from each other, however.) 
If you fail to beat the defender’s Strength check result, you move , 


_5 feet straight back to where you were before you moved into his 


space. If that space is occupied, you fall prone in that space. 


CHARGE 


TABLE 8—7: SPECIAL ATTACKS 


Special Attack 


Brief Description 


Charging is a special full-round action that allows you to move up 


Aid another Grant an ally a +2 bonus on attacks or AC to twice your speed and attack during the action. However, it car- 
Bull rush Push an opponent back 5 feet or more ries tight restrictions on how you can move. 
Charge Move up to twice your speed and attack with Movement During a Charge: You must move before your, 
| +2 bonus .attack, not after. You must move at least 10 feet (2 squares) and may | 
| Disarm Knock a weapon from your opponent’s move up to double your speed directly toward the designated oppo- | 
A hands ea : nent. You must have a clear path toward the opponent, and nothing | 
| Feint Negate your opponent’s Dex bonus to AC can hinder your movement (such as difficult terrain or obstacles). 
Grapple Wrestle with an opponent — Here's what it means to have a clear path. First, you must move to | 
Overrun Plow past or over an opponent as you move the closest space from which you can attack the opponent. (If this. 
| Sunder Strike an opponent’s weapon or shield space is occupied or otherwise blocked, you can't charge.) Second, 
Throw splash weapon Throw container of dangerous liquid at target if any line from your starting space to the ending space passes 
Trip Trip an opponent through a square that blocks movement (such as a wall), slows 


Turn (rebuke) undead 


Two-weapon fighting 


Channel positive (or negative) energy to turn 
away (or awe) undead } 
Fight with a weapon in each hand = | 


AID ANOTHER fi 


In melee combat, you can help a friend attack or defend by distract- 
ing or interfering with an opponent. If you're in position to make a 
melee attack on an opponent that is engaging a friend in melee 
combat, you can attempt to aid your friend as a standard action. You 
make an attack roll against AC 10. If you succeed, your friend gains 
either a +2 bonus on his next attack roll against that opponent or a +2 
„bonus to AC against that opponent's next attack (your choice), as long 
Las that attack comes before the beginning of your next turn. Multiple 
characters can aid the same friend, and similar bonuses stack. 
You can also use this standard action to help a friend in other 
ways, such as when he is affected by a hypnotism spell or a sleep 
spell, or to assist another character's skill check (see page 65). 


BULL RUSH 


You can make a bull rush as a standard action (an attack) or as part 
of a charge (see Charge, below). When you make a bull rush, you 
attempt to push an opponent straight back instead of damaging 
him. You can only bull rush an opponent who is one size category 
larger than you, the same size, or smaller. 

__ Initiating a Bull Rush: First, you move into the defender’s 
space. Doing this provokes an attack of opportunity from each 


4 


_\opponent that threatens you, including the defender. (If you have 
the Improved Bull Rush feat, you don't provoke an attack of oppor- 
‚tunity from the defender.) Any attack of opportunity made by 


anyone other than the defender against you during a bull rush has | 


a 25% chance of accidentally targeting the defender instead, and | 


When charging, a character or 
creature moves up to double speed 
[and at least 2 squares or IO ted along 
the shortest aep tot the closest 

qyasoli from which it can‘attack” * 
an‘ ‘enemy. Tf. anyi dine drawn 
between't the haracter’s 
CEG Space and the 
‘Vending space 
passes through a square 

that slows or prevents _ 

‘movement, or contains an ally, 


A character can’t 
charge if it doesn’t 
have line of sight 
__ ‘to,the enemy. ; 


4 


4 


When charging, Tordek at 
, move to the nearest square ‘from 
which hetan attack the orc. 


+—_4_4 


Charging 


Tordek 


Charging Blocked 


Tordek can’t charge the orc in this situation because: 


| movement (such as difficult terrain), or contains a creature (even 
_an ally), you can't charge. (Helpless creatures don't stop a charge.) 

If you don't have line of sight to the opponent at the start of 
your turn, you can't charge that opponent. ss 

You can't take a 5-foot step in the same round as a charge. 

If you are able to take only a standard action or a move action | 
on your turn, you can still charge, but you are only allowed to, 
move up to your speed (instead of up to double your speed). You | 
can't use this option unless you are restricted to taking only a} 
standard action or move action on your turn (such as during a. 
surprise round). 

Attacking on a Charge: After moving, you may make a single 
melee attack. Since you can use the momentum of the charge in 
your favor, you get a +2 bonus on the attack roll. Since a charge is 
a bit reckless, you also take a —2 penalty to your AC until the start 
of your next turn. 

A charging character gets a +2 bonus on the Strength check 

| made to bull rush an opponent (see Bull Rush, above). 

___Even if you have extra attacks, such as from having a high 

_enough base attack bonus or from using multiple weapons, you 
only get to make one attack during a charge. 

Lances and Charge Attacks: A lance deals double damage if 
employed by a mounted character in a charge. 

Weapons Readied against a Charge: Spears, tridents, and cer- 
tain other piercing weapons deal double damage when readied 
(set) and used against a charging character (see Table 7-5: 
Weapons, page 116, and Ready, page 160). 


DISARM 


As a melee attack, you may attempt to disarm your opponent. If 
you do so with a weapon, you knock the opponent's weapon out of 
This hands and to the ground. If you attempt the disarm while 
l unarmed, you end up with the weapon in your hand. 
If you're attempting to disarm a melee weapon, follow the steps 
outlined here. If the item you are attempting to disarm isn't a| 
melee weapon (for instance, a bow or a wand), the defender may_ 


still oppose you with an attack roll, but takes a penalty and can't. 
attempt to disarm you in return if your attempt fails. | 

Step 1: Attack of Opportunity. You provoke an attack of | 
opportunity from the target you are trying to disarm. (If you have | 

the Improved Disarm feat, you don’t incur an attack of opportu- 
[nity for making a disarm attempt.) If the defender's attack of 
opportunity deals any damage, your disarm attempt fails. 

Step 2: Opposed Rolls. You and the defender make opposed at- 
tack rolls with your respective weapons. The wielder of a two-. 

_handed weapon on a disarm attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll, and 
| the wielder of a light weapon takes a —4 penalty. (An unarmed strike | 
is considered a light weapon, so you always take a penalty when try- 
ing to disarm an opponent by using an unarmed strike.) If the com- 
batants are of different sizes, the larger combatant gets a bonus on , 
the attack roll of +4 per difference in size category. If the targeted | 
item isn'ta melee weapon, the defender takes a—4 penalty on the roll. 
__Step Three: Consequences. If you beat the defender, the de- 
fender is disarmed. If you attempted the disarm action unarmed, , 
\you now have the weapon. If you were armed, the defender’s . 

_weapon is on the ground in the defender’s square. 

If you fail on the disarm attempt, the defender may immedi- , 
ately react and attempt to disarm you with the same sort of. 
opposed melee attack roll. His attempt does not provoke an attack 
of opportunity from you. Ifhe fails his disarm attempt, you do not 
subsequently get a free disarm attempt against him. 

Note: A defender wearing spiked gauntlets (page 118) can't be. 
disarmed. A defender using a weapon attached to a locked gaunt-| 
let (page 124) gets a +10 bonus to resist being disarmed. ___ ah: 
Grabbing Items iin 

You can use a disarm action to snatch an item worn mn by the target | 
(such as a necklace or a pair of goggles). If you want to have the | 
item in your hand, the disarm must be made as an unarmed attack. | 
If the item is poorly secured or otherwise easy to snatch or cut 
away (such as a loose cloak or a brooch pinned to the front of a 
tunic), the attacker gets a +4 bonus. Unlike on a normal disarm 
attempt, failing the attempt doesn't allow the defender to attempt 
to disarm you. This otherwise functions identically to a disarm 

attempt, as noted above. 

You cant snatch an item that is well secured, such as a ring or 
bracelet, unless you have pinned the wearer (see Grapple). Even 
then, the defender gains a +4 bonus on his roll to resist the attempt. 


FEINT 


As a standard action, you can try to mislead an opponent in melee 
combat so that he can't dodge your next attack effectively. To feint, 
make a Bluff check opposed by a Sense Motive check by your 
target. The target may add his base attack bonus to this Sense 
Motive check. If your Bluff check result exceeds your target's Sense 
Motive check result, the next melee attack you make against the 
target does not allow him to use his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). 
This attack must be made on or before your next turn. 

Feinting in this way against a nonhumanoid is difficult because 
it’s harder to read a strange creature's body language; you take a —4 
penalty. Against a creature of animal Intelligence (1 or 2), you take 
a —8 penalty. Against a nonintelligent creature, it’s impossible. 

Feinting in combat does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

Feinting as a Move Action: With the Improved Feint feat, you | 
can attempt a feint as a move action instead of as a standard action. | 


GRAPPLE — 


Grappling means wrestling and struggling hand-to- -hand. It’ s4 
tricky to perform, but sometimes you want to pin foes instead of | 
| killing them, and sometimes you have no choice in the matter. For | 

| monsters, grappling can mean trapping you in a toothy maw (the 

| purple worm’s favorite tactic) or holding you down so it can claw 
you to pieces (the dire lion's trick). 


Grapple Checks 

Repeatedly in a grapple, you need to make opposed grapple 
checks against an opponent. A grapple check is like a melee attack 
roll. Your attack bonus on a grapple check is: 


Base attack bonus + Strength modifier + special size modifier | 


Special Size Modifier: The special size modifier for a grapple 
[check is as follows: Colossal +16, Gargantuan +12, Huge +8, Large. 
+4, Medium +0, Small —4, Tiny —8, Diminutive —12, Fine -16. Use. 


t 


+ 
+ 


(this number in place of the normal size modifier you use when | 


[making an attack roll. ~ 
Starting a Grapple 

To start a grapple, you need to grab and hold your target. Starting 
a grapple requires a successful melee attack roll. If you get multi- 
‚ple attacks, you can attempt to start a grapple multiple times (at 


„successively lower base attack bonuses). 
Step 1: Attack of Opportunity. You provoke an attack of TS i 


[tunity from the target you are trying to grapple. If the attack of | 
opportunity deals damage, the grapple attempt fails. (Certain mon- , 


sters do not provoke attacks of opportunity when they attempt to 
grapple, nor do characters with the Improved Grapple feat.) If the 
attack of opportunity misses or fails to deal damage, proceed to Step 2. 
Step 2: Grab. You make a melee touch attack to grab the target. 
If you fail to hit the target, the grapple attempt fails. If you suc- 
.ceed, proceed to Step 3. 
___ Step 3: Hold. Make an opposed grapple check as a free action. 
g If you succeed, you and your target are now grappling, and you 
{deal damage to the target as if with an unarmed strike. 
L If you lose, you fail to start the grapple. You automatically lose 
Lan attempt to hold if the target is two or more size categories larger 
‚than you are. 
In case of a tie, the combatant with the higher grapple check 
‘modifier wins. If this is a tie, roll again to break the tie. 
Step 4: Maintain Grapple. To maintain the grapple for later 


rounds, you must move into the target's space. (This movement is _ 


free and doesn’t count as part of your movement in the round.) , 
Moving, as normal, provokes attacks of opportunity from t threat: | 
ening opponents, but not from your target. 

If you can't move into your target's space, you can't maintain the. 
grapple and must immediately let go of the target. To grapple 
again, you must begin at Step 1. 

Grappling Consequences 
While you're grappling, your ability to attack others and defend 
yourself is limited. 
No Threatened Squares: You don’t threaten any squares while 
| grappling. 
___No Dexterity Bonus: You lose your Dexterity bonus to AC (if 
_you have one) against opponents you aren't grappling. (You can 
still use it against opponents you are grappling.) 
No Movement: You can’t moye normally while grappling. You 
may, however, make an opposed grapple check (see below) to 
move while grappling. 


If You’re Grappling 
When you are grappling (regardless of who started the grapple), 
you can perform any of the following actions. Some of these ac- 

‚tions take the place of an attack (rather than being a standard 
.action or a move action). If your base attack bonus allows you mul- 
tiple attacks, you can attempt one of these actions in place of each 

Jof your attacks, but at successively lower base attack bonuses. 

Activate a Magic Item: You can actiyate a magic item, as long as 

‚the item doesn't require a spell completion trigger (such as a scroll 


+ 


| 


does). You don't need to make a grapple check to activate the item. | 
Attack Your Opponent: You can make an attack with an| 


laction with a successful grapple check. 


If You're Pinning an Opponent 


unarmed strike, natural weapon, or light weapon against another , 
character you are grappling. You take a —4 penalty on such attacks. | 
You can't attack with two weapons while grappling, even if both | 
are light weapons. 

Cast a Spell: You can attempt to cast a spell while grappling or 


Jeven while pinned (see below), provided its casting time is no 
\more than 1 standard action, it has no somatic component, and 


you have in hand any material components or focuses you might 
need. Any spell that requires precise and careful action, such as, 


drawing a circle with powdered silver for protection from evil, is. 
limpossible to cast while grappling or being pinned. If the spell is | 


one that you can cast while grappling, you must make a Concen- 
tration check (DC 20 + spell level) or lose the spell. You don't have 
to make a successful grapple check to cast the spell. 

Damage Your Opponent: While grappling, you can deal] 
damage to your opponent equivalent to an unarmed strike. Make 


[an opposed grapple check in place of an attack. If you win, you 
ideal nonlethal damage as normal for your unarmed strike (1d3 , 
points for Medium attackers or 1d2 points for Small attackers, 
plus Strength modifiers). If you want to deal lethal damage, you 


take a —4 penalty on your grapple check. 

Exception: Monks deal more damage on an unarmed strike than | 
other characters, and the damage is lethal. However, they can 
choose to deal their damage as nonlethal damage when grappling 
without taking the usual —4 penalty for changing lethal damage to 
nonlethal damage (see Dealing Nonlethal Damage, page 146). 

Draw a Light Weapon: You can draw a light weapon as a move | 
4 

Escape from Grapple: You can escape a grapple by winning an_ 
opposed grapple check in place of making an attack. You can make | 
an Escape Artist check in place of your grapple check if you so} 
desire, but this requires a standard action. If more than one oppo- | 
nent is grappling you, your grapple check result has to beat all | 
their individual check results to escape. (Opponents don't have to 
try to hold you if they don’t want to.) If you escape, you finish the 
action by moving into any space adjacent to your opponent(s). 

Move: You can move half your speed (bringing all others 
engaged in the grapple with you) by winning an opposed grapple 
check. This requires a standard action, and you must beat all the 
other individual check results to move the grapple. 

Note: You get a +4 bonus on your grapple check to move a pinned 
opponent, but only if no one else is involved in the grapple. 

Retrieve a Spell Component: You can produce a spell compo- 
nent from your pouch while grappling by using a full-round 
action. Doing so does not require a successful grapple check. 

Pin Your Opponent: You can hold your opponent immobile 
for 1 round by winning an opposed grapple check (made in place 
of an attack). Once you have an opponent pinned, you have a few 
options available to you (see below). 

Break Another’s Pin: If you are grappling an opponent who 
has another character pinned, you can make an opposed grapple 
check in place of an attack. If you win, you break the hold that the 
opponent has over the other character. The character is still grap- 
pling, but is no longer pinned. 

Use Opponent’s Weapon: If your opponent is holding a light 
weapon, you can use it to attack him. Make an opposed grapple 
check (in place of an attack). If you win, make an attack roll with the | 
weapon with a—4 penalty (doing this doesn't require another action). | 
You don't gain possession of the weapon by performing this action. | 


+ 


Once you've pinned your opponent, he’s at your mercy. Sa | 
dont have quite the freedom of action that you did while grappling. | 


[You can attempt to damage your opponent with an opposed grapple 
| check, you can attempt to use your opponent's weapon against him, 
or you can attempt to move the grapple (all described above). At your 


option, you can prevent a pinned opponent from speaking. 


You can use a disarm action to remove or grab away a well- 


secured object worn by a pinned opponent, but he gets a +4 bonus 
on his roll to resist your attempt (see Disarm, page 155). 
You may voluntarily release a pinned character as a free action; 


if you do so, you are no longer considered to be grappling that | 


character (and vice versa). 


You can’t draw or use a weapon (against the pinned character or | 


+ 


Lany other character), escape another’s grapple, retrieve a spell, 


\component, pin another character, or break another's pin while} 


_you are pinning an opponent. 


If You're Pinned by an Opponent 
When an opponent has pinned you, you are held immobile (but not 
helpless) for 1 round. While you're pinned, you take a —4 penalty to 
your AC against opponents other than the one pinning you. At your 
opponent's option, you may also be unable to speak. On your turn, 
„you can try to escape the pin by making an opposed grapple check 


¿in place of an attack. You can make an Escape Artist check in place | 
of your grapple check if you want, but this requires a standard | 


Laction. If you win, you escape the pin, but you're still grappling. 


Joining a Grapple 
If your target is already grappling someone else, you can use an at- 
tack to start a grapple, as above, except that the target doesn't get 
an attack of opportunity against you, and your grab automatically 
succeeds. You still have to make a successful opposed grapple 
check to become part of the grapple. 
| If there are multiple opponents involved in the grapple, you 
| pick one to make the opposed grapple check against. 


Multiple Grapplers 
| Several combatants can be in a single grapple. Up to four combat- 
_ants can grapple a single opponent in a given round. Creatures that 
Lare one or more size categories smaller than you count for half, 

creatures that are one size category larger than you count double, 
and creatures two or more size categories larger count quadruple. 


+ 


+ 


When you are grappling with multiple opponents, you choose | 
one opponent to make an opposed check against. The exception is, 


an attempt to escape from the grapple; to successfully escape, your | 


grapple check must beat the check results of each opponent. 


MOUNTED COMBAT 
Riding a mount into battle gives you several advantages (see the 
Ride skill, page 80, and the Mounted Combat feat, page 98). 

Horses in Combat: Warhorses and warponies can serve read- 
ily as combat steeds. Light horses, ponies, and heavy horses, how- 
ever, are frightened by combat. If you don't dismount, you must 

_make a DC 20 Ride check each round as a move action to control 
{such a horse. If you succeed, you can perform a standard action 
_after the move action. If you fail, the move action becomes a full- 
round action and you can't do anything else until your next turn. 

Your mount acts on your initiative count as you direct it. You 
move at its speed, but the mount uses its action to move. 

A horse (not a pony) is a Large creature (see Big and Little Crea- 
tures in Combat, page 149), and thus takes up a space 10 feet (2 
squares) across. For simplicity, assume that you share your mount’s 
space during combat. 

Combat while Mounted: With a DC 5 Ride check, you can 

guide your mount with your knees so as to use both hands to 

| pen or defend yourself. This is a free action. 
__ When you attack a creature smaller than your mount that is on 
foot, you get the +1 bonus on melee attacks for being on higher 
_\ground. If your mount moves more than 5 feet, you can only make 
la single melee attack. Essentially, you have to wait until the mount 
_gets to your enemy before attacking, so you can't make a full 


4- 


attack. Even at your mount's full speed, you don't take any penalty | 


on melee attacks while mounted. 


4 


If your mount charges, you also take the AC penalty associated. 
with a charge. If you make an attack at the end of the charge, you | 
receive the bonus gained from the charge. When charging on | 
horseback, you deal double damage with a lance (see Charge, 

page 154). 

| You can use ranged weapons while your mount is taking a double 

\move, but at a —4 penalty on the attack roll. You can use ranged 
weapons while your mount is running (quadruple speed), at a —8 
penalty. In either case, you make the attack roll when your mount , 

_has completed half its movement. You can make a full attack with a, 

| ranged weapon while your mount is moving. Likewise, you can take | 
move actions normally, so that, for instance, you can load and fire a. 
light crossbow in a round while your mount is moving. 

Casting Spells while Mounted: You can cast a spell normally , 
if your mount moves up to a normal move (its speed) either before | 
or after you cast. If you have your mount move both before and 

_after you cast a spell, then youre casting the spell while the mount 

Lis moving, and you have to make a Concentration check due to the , 

\vigorous motion (DC 10 + spell level) or lose the spell. If the, 

_mount is running (quadruple speed), you can cast a spell when 
your mount has moved up to twice its speed, but your Concentra- , 
tion check is more difficult due to the violent motion (DC 15 +. 
spell level). 

If Your Mount Falls in Battle: If your mount falls, you have to 
succeed on a DC 15 Ride check to make a soft fall and take no 
damage. If the check fails, you take 1d6 points of damage. 

If You Are Dropped: If you are knocked unconscious, you | 

have a 50% chance to stay in the saddle (or 75% if you're in a mili- $ 
tary saddle). Otherwise you fall and take 1d6 points of damage. | 
Without you to guide it, your mount avoids combat. 


OVERRUN 


You can attempt an overrun as a standard action taken during. 
your move. (In general, you cannot take a standard action during 
a move; this is an exception.) With an overrun, you attempt to 
plow past or over your opponent (and move through his square) 
as you move. You can only overrun an opponent who is one size 
category larger than you, the same size, or smaller. You can make 
only one overrun attempt per round. 

If you're attempting to overrun an opponent, follow these steps. 

Step 1: Attack of Opportunity. Since you begin the overrun 
by moving into the defender’s space, you provoke an attack of 
opportunity from the defender. 

Step 2: Opponent Avoids? The defender has the option to 
simply avoid you. If he avoids you, he doesn't suffer any ill effect, 
and you may keep moving. (You can always move through a square 
occupied by someone who lets you by.) In either case, the overrun 
attempt doesn’t count against your actions this round (except for 
any movement required to enter the opponent's square). If your 
opponent doesn't avoid you, move to Step 3. 

Step 3: Opponent Blocks? If your opponent blocks you, make 
a Strength check opposed by the defender’s Dexterity or Strength 
check (whichever ability score has the higher modifier). A com- 
batant gets a +4 bonus on the check for every size category he is 
larger than Medium or a —4 penalty for every size category he is 
smaller than Medium.The defender gets a +4 bonus on his check 
if he has more than two legs or is otherwise more stable than a_ 
normal humanoid (such as a dwarf). If you win, you knock the | 
defender prone. If you lose, the defender may immediately react | 
and make a Strength check opposed by your Dexterity or Strength | 

check (including the size modifiers noted above, but no other) 
modifiers) to try to knock you prone. _ : 

Step 4: Consequences. If you succeed in knocking your oppo- | 

nent prone, you can continue your movement as normal. If you | 

| fail and are knocked prone in turn, you have to move 5 feet back 

‘the way you came and fall prone, ending your movement there. If 
you fail but are not knocked prone, you have to move 5 feet back 


SS 


4 


the way you came, ending your movement there. If that square is 
occupied, you fall prone in that square. 

Improved Overrun: If you have the Improved Overrun feat, 
your target may not choose to avoid you. 

Mounted Overrun (Trample): If you attempt an overrun while | 


mounted, your mount makes the Strength check to determine the | 


[success or failure of the overrun attack (and applies its size modi- | 
| fier, rather than yours). Ifyou have the Trample feat and attempt an | 
loverrun while mounted, your target may not choose to avoid you, | 
‚and if you knock your opponent prone with the overrun, your. 
(mount may make one hoof attack against your opponent. 


SUNDER 


You can use a melee attack with a slashing or bludgeoning weapon 
to strike a weapon or shield that your opponent is holding. If 
you're attempting to sunder a weapon or shield, follow the steps 
outlined here. (Attacking held objects other than weapons or 
shields is covered below.) + 


p -—— - 
TABLE 8—8: COMMON Armor, WEAPON, AND SHIELD | 
ARDNESS AND HIT POINTS | 
Hardness HP! 


Weapon or Shield Example 
Light blade Short sword 10 2 
One-handed blade Longsword 10 5 
Two-handed blade Greatsword 10 10 
Light metal-hafted weapon Light mace 10 10 
| One-handed metal-hafted weapon Heavy mace 10 20 
| Light hafted weapon Handaxe 5 2 
| One-handed hafted weapon Battleaxe 5 5 
¿Two-handed hafted weapon Greataxe — — 5 10 
| Projectile weapon Crossbow 5 5 
l Armor — special? armor 
i bonus x 5 
| Buckler — 10 5 
Light wooden shield = s 5 7 
Heavy wooden shield — 5 15 
Light steel shield —_ et) 10 | 
Heavy steel shield — 10 20. 
Tower shield — 5 201 
1 The hp value given is for Medium armor, weapons, and shields. | 


Divide by 2 for each size category of the item smaller than Medium, | 
or multiply it by 2 for each size category larger than Medium. 
2 Varies by material; see Table 9-9, page 166. 


Step 1: Attack of Opportunity. You provoke an attack of 
opportunity from the target whose weapon or shield you are 
trying to sunder. (If you have the Improved Sunder feat, you don't 

„incur an attack of opportunity for making the attempt.) 

| Step 2: Opposed Rolls. You and the defender make opposed 

Lattack rolls with your respective weapons. The wielder of a two- 

_handed weapon on a sunder attempt gets a +4 bonus on this roll, 
and the wielder of a light weapon takes a —4 penalty. If the com- 
batants are of different sizes, the larger combatant gets a bonus on 
the attack roll of +4 per difference in size category. 

Step 3: Consequences. If you beat the defender, you have 
landed a good blow. Roll damage and deal it to the weapon or 
shield. See Table 8-8: Common Armor, Weapon, and Shield Hard- 
ness and Hit Points to determine how much damage you must 
deal to destroy the weapon or shield. 

If you fail the sunder attempt, you don't deal any damage. 

| _ Sundering a Carried or Worn Object: You don't use an opposed attack 
roll to damage a carried or worn object. Instead, just make an attack 
To against the object’s AC. A carried or worn object's AC is equal to 
10 + its size modifier + the Dexterity modifier of the carrying or 
_wearing character. Attacking a carried or worn object provokes an 
attack of opportunity just as attacking a held object does. To attempt | 
to snatch away an item worn by a defender (such as a cloak or a pair | 


Missing with a Thrown Weapon 


Targeted on square 


Targeted on intersection 


When a thrown weapon misses, roll d8 and refer to this diagram 
to determine where the weapon lands. 


Lof goggles) rather than damage it, see Disarm, page 155. You can't 
{sunder armor worn by another character. 


THROW SPLASH WEAPON 


A splash weapon is a ranged weapon that breaks on impact, splash- 
ing or scattering its contents over its target and nearby creatures _ 
or objects. Most splash weapons consist of liquids, such as acid or 
holy water, in breakable vials such as glass flasks. (See Special Sub- 
stances and Items, page 128, for particulars about several different 
splash weapons.) s — 

To attack with a splash weapon, make a ranged touch attack | 

\against the target. Thrown weapons require no weapon profi- | 
ciency, so you don't take the -4 nonproficiency penalty, A hit deals | 
direct hit damage to the target, and splash damage to all creatures | 
within 5 feet of the target. i zee 

You can instead target a specific grid intersection. Treat this as a | 
ranged attack against AC 5. However, if you target a grid intersec- | 
tion, creatures in all adjacent squares are dealt the splash damage, 
and the direct hit damage is not dealt to any creature. (You can't 
target a grid intersection occupied by a creature, such as a Large or 
larger creature; in this case, you're aiming at the creature.) _ 

If you miss the target (whether aiming at a creature or a grid inter- 
section), roll 1d8. This determines the misdirection of the throw, with 
1 being straight back at you and 2 through 8 counting clockwise 
around the grid intersection or target creature. Then, count a number 
of squares in the indicated direction equal to the range increment of 
the throw. So, if you miss on a throw out to two range increments and 
rolla 1 to determine the misdirection of the throw, the splash weapon 
lands on the intersection that is 2 squares away from the target in the 
direction toward you. See the accompanying diagram. 

After you determine where the weapon landed, it deals splash 
damage to all creatures in adjacent squares. 


TRIP 


You can try to trip an opponent as an unarmed melee attack. You 
can only trip an opponent who is one size category larger than 
you, the same size, or smaller. 

Making a Trip Attack: Make an unarmed melee touch attack 
against your target. This provokes an attack of opportunity from 
your target as normal for unarmed attacks. 

If your attack succeeds, make a Strength check opposed by the | 
defender's Dexterity or Strength check (whichever ability score | 
has the higher modifier). A combatant gets a +4 bonus for every | 
size category he is larger than Medium or a —4 penalty for every | 

_size category he is smaller than Medium. The defender gets a +4) 
bonus on his check if he has more than two legs or is otherwise | 
more stable than a normal humanoid (such as a dwarf). If you win, | 
‘you trip the defender. If you lose, the defender may immediately 

{react and make a Strength check opposed by your Dexterity or 

| Strength check to try to trip you. 

Avoiding Attacks of Opportunity: If you have the Improved Trip 


feat, or if you are tripping with a weapon (see below), you don't 
provoke an attack of opportunity for making a trip attack. 
Being Tripped (Prone): A tripped character is prone (see Table 
8—6: Armor Class Modifiers). Standing up is a move action. 
Tripping a Mounted Opponent: You may make a trip attack | 
against a mounted opponent. The defender may make a Ride, 
check in place of his Dexterity or Strength check. If you succeed, | 
lyou pull the rider from his mount. 
| Tripping with a Weapon: Some weapons, including the} 
‚spiked chain, dire flail, heavy flail, light flail, guisarme, halberd, 
and whip, can be used to make trip attacks. In this case, you make | 
La melee touch attack with the weapon instead of an unarmed 
melee touch attack, and you don't provoke an attack of opportu- 
nity. If you are tripped during your own trip attempt, you can drop 
the weapon to avoid being tripped. 


TURN OR REBUKE UNDEAD 


¿Good clerics and paladins and some neutral clerics can channel. 

| positive energy, which can halt, drive off (rout), or destroy undead. | 

| Evil clerics and some neutral clerics can channel negative energy, 
which can halt, awe (rebuke), control (command), or bolster un-. 
dead. Regardless of the effect, the general term for the activity is 
“turning.” When attempting to exercise their divine control over 
these creatures, characters make turning checks. 


Turning Checks 
Turning undead is a supernatural ability that a character can per- 
[form as a standard action. It does not provoke attacks of opportu- 
| nity. You must present your holy symbol to turn undead. Turning 
Lis considered an attack. 

Times per Day: You may attempt to turn undead a number of 
times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. You can 
_increase this number by taking the Extra Turning feat (page 94). 

Range: You turn the closest turnable undead first, and you can't 

turn undead that are more than 60 feet away or that have total 
cover relative to you. You don't need line of sight to a target, but 
you do need line of effect (see page 176). = 

Turning Check: The first thing you do is roll a turning check to. 


see how powerful an undead creature you can turn. This is a Charisma | 
check (1d20 + your Charisma modifier). Table 8-9: Turning Undead | 


gives you the Hit Dice of the most powerful undead you can affect, | 
relative to your level. On a given turning attempt, you can turn no 
undead creature whose Hit Dice exceed the result on this table. 
Turning Damage: If your roll on Table 8-9: Turning Undead is 
high enough to let you turn at least some of the undead within 60 
feet, roll 2d6 + your cleric level + your Charisma modifier for turn- 
ing damage. That’s how many total Hit Dice of undead you can turn. 
If your Charisma score is average or low, it’s possible (but unusual) 
| to roll fewer Hit Dice of undead turned than indicated on Table 8-9: 
Turning Undead. For instance, a 1st-level cleric with an average 
| Charisma score could get a turning check result of 19 (cleric’s level +3, 
or 4 HD), which is enough to turn a wight, but then roll only 3 on his 
turning damage roll—not enough to turn that wight after all. 
You may skip over already turned undead that are still within 
range, so that you do not waste your turning capacity on them. 
Effect and Duration of Turning: Turned undead flee from 
you by the best and fastest means available to them. They flee for 
10 rounds (1 minute). If they cannot flee, they cower (giving any 
attack rolls against them a +2 bonus). If you approach within 10 
feet of them, however, they overcome being turned and act nor- 
mally. (You can stand within 10 feet without breaking the turning 
effect—you just can't approach them.) You can attack them with 
_\ranged attacks (from at least 10 feet away), and others can attack 
them in any fashion, without breaking the turning effect. 
Destroying Undead: If you have twice as many levels (or 
more) as the undead have Hit Dice, you destroy any that you) 
would normally turn. 


+ 


TABLE 8—9: TURNING UNDEAD | 
Turning Check _ Most Powerful Undead } 
Result — Affected (Maximum Hit Dice) 1 
0 or lower Cleric’s level — 4 | 
AE 1-3 __Cleric’s level — 
| 4-6 Cleric’s level — 
| 7-9 Cleric’s level — 1 
10-12 Cleric’s level 
13-15 Cleric’s level + 1 | 
16-18 Cleric’s level + 2 | 
i 19-21 Cleric’s level + 3 = } 
22 or higher Cleric’s level + 4 
How Turning Works 


Jozan, the cleric, and his friends confront seven a human mhie | 
led by a wight. Calling on the power of Pelor, Jozan raises his sun 
| disk and attempts to drive the undead away. 

| _ First, he makes a turning check (1d20 + Cha modifier) to « to see what . 

{the most powerful undead creature is that he can turn in this action. , 

_His result is 9, so he can only turn undead that have fewer Hit Dice 
than he has levels. Jozan is 3rd level, so on this attempt, he can turn , 
creatures with 2 Hit Dice (such as human zombies) or 1 Hit Die (such. 
as human skeletons) but nothing with more than 2 Hit Dice (such as 
the wight, which has 4 HD). He does not have twice as many levels as 
either the zombies or wight, so he will not destroy any of them. 

Next, he rolls his turning damage (2d6 + Jozan’s level + Cha mod- 
ifier) to see how many total Hit Dice of creatures he can turn. His | 

result is 11, enough to turn the five closest zombies (accounting for | 
10 HD out of the maximum of 11). The remaining two zombies and | 
the wight are unaffected. 

On Jozan’s next turn, he attempts to turn undead again. Thist time, | | 
his turning check result is 21—enough to turn undead creatures of | 
up to 6 HD (his level + 3). His turning damage roll is only 7, though, 
so he can only turn 7 Hit Dice worth of creatures. He turns the two 
nearest undead (the remaining 2 HD zombies), but the remaining 3 
HD worth of turning isn't enough to turn the 4 HD wight. 


Evil Clerics and Undead 


Evil clerics channel negative energy to rebuke (awe) or command 
(control) undead rather than channeling positive energy to turn 
or destroy them. An evil cleric makes the equivalent of a turning 
check. Undead that would be turned are rebuked instead, and 
those that would be destroyed are commanded. 

Rebuked: A rebuked undead creature cowers as if in awe (attack 
rolls against the creature get a +2 bonus). The effect lasts 10 rounds. 

Commanded: A commanded undead creature is under the 
mental control of the evil cleric. The cleric must take a standard 
action to give mental orders to a commanded undead. At any one 
time, the cleric may command any number of undead whose total 
Hit Dice do not exceed his level. He may voluntarily relinquish 
command on any commanded undead creature or creatures in 
order to command new ones. 

Dispelling Turning: An evil cleric may channel negative energy 
to dispel a good cleric’s turning effect. The evil cleric makes a turn- 
ing check as if attempting to rebuke the undead. If the turning 
check result is equal to or greater than the turning check result that 
the good cleric scored when turning the undead, then the undead | 
are no longer turned. The evil cleric rolls turning damage of 2d6 + | 
cleric level + Charisma modifier to see how many Hit Dice worth of | 
undead he can affect in this way (as if he were rebuking them). | 

Bolstering Undead: An evil cleric may also bolster undead | 
creatures against turning in advance. He makes a turning check as | 
if attempting to rebuke the undead, but the Hit Dice result on | 

|Table 8-9: Turning Undead becomes the undead creatures’ effec- | 
| tive Hit Dice as far as turning is concerned (provided the result is 
higher than the creatures’ actual Hit Dice). The bolstering lasts 10 
rounds. An evil undead cleric can bolster himself in this manner. 


[59 


fog 


Neutral Clerics and Undead. 
A cleric of neutral alignment can either turn undead but not re- 
buke them, or rebuke undead but not turn them. See Turn or 
Rebuke Undead, page 33, for more information. 

Even if a cleric is neutral, channeling positive energy. is a good | 
act and channeling negative energy is evil. 


Paladins and Undead 


+ 


} 
| Beginning at 4th level, paladins can turn undead as if they were | 


¿clerics of three levels lower than ae actually are. 

Turning Other Creatures 
Some clerics have the ability to turn creatures other than undead. 
For example, a cleric with the Fire domain can turn or destroy 
water creatures (as if he were a good cleric turning undead) and 
rebuke or command fire creatures (as if he were an evil cleric 
.rebuking undead). The turning check result is determined as 


jnormal. t 


Other Uses for Positive or Negative Energy 


+ 


| Positive or negative energy may have uses other than affecting! | 


undead. For example, a holy site might be guarded by a magic door 
that opens for any good cleric who can make a turning check high 
enough to affect a 3 HD undead and that shatters for an evil cleric 
who can make a similar check. 


TWO-WEAPON FIGHTING 


lif you wield a second weapon in your off hand, you can get one 
extra attack per round with that weapon. Fighting in this way is very 
|hard, however, and you suffer a —6 penalty with your regular attack 
Lor attacks with your primary hand and a —10 penalty to the attack 
lwith your off hand. You can reduce these penalties in two ways: 
¿e _If your off-hand weapon is light, the penalties are reduced by 2 
| each. (An unarmed strike is always considered light.) 

e The Two-Weapon Fighting feat lessens the primary hand 

penalty by 2, and the off-hand penalty by 6. 


Table 8-10: Two-Weapon Fighting Penalties summarizes the. 


interaction of all these factors. 


TABLE 8—10: TwoO-WEAPON FIGHTING PENALTIES = 
Circumstances Primary Hand Off Hand 
Normal penalties -6 -10 
Off-hand weapon is light o A -8 
Two-Weapon Fighting feat —4 —4 
Off-hand weapon is light and -2 -2 


Two-Weapon Fighting feat 


, Double Weapons: You can use a double weapon to make an 
Lextra attack with the off-hand end of the weapon as if you were 
fighting with two weapons. The penalties apply as if the off-hand 
Lend of the weapon were a light weapon. 

Ranged Weapons: The same rules apply when you throw or 
fire a weapon from each hand. Treat a dart or shuriken as a light 
weapon when used in this manner, and treat a bolas, javelin, net, 
or sling as a one-handed weapon. 


Here are ways to change when you act during combat by altering 
_your place in the initiative order. 


JELAY 


By choosing to delay, y you take no action and then act normally on 
{whatever initiative count you decide to act. When you delay, you 
voluntarily reduce your own initiative result for the rest of the 


combat. When your new, lower initiative count comes up later in | 


+ 


the same round, you can act normally. You can specify this new | 
f 


initiative result or just wait until some time later in the round and , 
act then, thus fixing your new initiative count at that point. | 
Delaying is useful if you need to see what your friends or | 
opponents are going to do before deciding what to do yourself. 
|The price you pay is lost initiative. You never get back the time 
_you spend waiting to see what’s going to happen. You can't, how- 
lever, interrupt anyone else’s action (as you can with a readied 
action). 

Initiative Consequences of Delaying: Your initiative result, 
„becomes the count on which you took the delayed action. If you | 
come to your next action and have not yet performed an action, | 

you don't get to take a delayed action (though you can delay 
again). If you take a delayed action in the next round, before your 
regular turn comes up, your initiative count rises to that new, 
point in the order of battle, and you do not get your regular action | 
that round. 


READY 


\The ready action lets you prepare to take an action later, after your. 

turn is over but before your next one has begun. Readying is a 
standard action. It does not provoke an attack of opportunity , 
(though the action that you ready might do so). 

Readying an Action: You can ready a standard action, a move 
action, or a free action. To do so, specify the action you will take 
and the conditions under which you will take it. For example, you 
might specify that you will shoot an arrow at anyone coming 
through a nearby doorway. Then, any time before your next action, | 

_you may take the readied action in response to that condition. The | 
action occurs just before the action that triggers it. If the triggered | 
action is part of another charactet’s activities, you interrupt the | 
other character. Assuming he is still capable of doing so, he con- 
tinues his actions once you complete your readied action. —— | 

Your initiative result changes. For the rest of the encounter, | 
your initiative result is the count on which you took the readied 
action, and you act immediately ahead of the character whose 
action triggered your readied action. 

You can take a 5-foot step as part of your readied action, but only if 
you dont otherwise move any distance during the round. For instance, 
if you move up to an open door and then ready an action to swing your 
sword at whatever comes near, you cant take a 5-foot step along with 
the readied action (since you've already moved in this round). 

Initiative Consequences of Readying: Your initiative result 
becomes the count on which you took the readied action. If you 
come to your next action and have not yet performed your readied 
action, you don't get to take the readied action (though you can 
ready the same action again). If you take your readied action in the 
next round, before your regular turn comes up, your initiative 
count rises to that new point in the order of battle, and you do not 
get your regular action that round. 

Distracting Spellcasters: You can ready an attack against a spell- 
caster with the trigger “if she starts casting a spell.” If you damage the 
spellcaster, she may lose the spell she was trying to cast (as deter- 
mined by her Concentration check result). 

Readying to Counterspell: You may ready a counterspell against 
a spellcaster (often with the trigger “if she starts casting a spell”). In 
this case, when the spellcaster starts a spell, you get a chance to iden- 
tify it with a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell level). If you do, and if, 
you can cast that same spell (are able to cast it and have it prepared, if | 
you prepare spells), you can cast the spell as a counterspell and auto- | 
matically ruin the other spellcaster’s spell. Counterspelling works } 
Leven if one spell is divine and the other arcane. 2: 

A spellcaster can use dispel magic (page 223) to counterspell| L 
another spellcaster, but it doesn't always work. 

|__ Readying a Weapon against a Charge: You can ready certain 
| piercing weapons, setting them to receive charges (see Table 7-5: 
| Weapons, page 116). A readied weapon of this type deals double 
damage if you score a hit with it against a charging character. 


+ 


Cauldron 


oA 


My $ 
Harness fase ; N Ye 
Ny ` 

tt Wee 


WY 


8 
eae V4 


oe 


ourneying from place to place is as much a part of the 
game as combat or magic. This chapter covers carrying 
capacity and encumbrance, movement overland and 
through adventure sites, exploration, and treasure. 


Encumbrance rules determine how much a character’s armor and 
equipment slow him or her down. Encumbrance comes in two 
parts: encumbrance by armor and encumbrance by total weight. 

Encumbrance by Armor: A charactét’s armor (as described 
on Table 7—6: Armor and Shields, page 123) defines his or her 
maximum. Dexterity bonus to-AG, armor check penalty, speéd, 
and running speed. Unless your character is weak or carrying a 
lot of gear, that’s all you need to know. The extra gear your charac- 
ter carries, such as weapons and rope, won't slow him or her down 
any more than the armor already does. 

If your character issweak or-cattying-a lot of gear, however, 
then you'll need to calculate encumbrance by weight. Doing so is 
most important when-your character is trying to carry some 
heavy object, suth asia treasure-chest. 

Weight: If you want to determine whether your character's gear | 
is heavy enough to slow him or her down more than the armor 

already does, total the weight of all the character's items, including 

be armor, weapons, and gear. Compare this total to the character's 
Strength on Table 9-1:,Carrying Capacity. Depending on how thë 
Sian weight compares to the charactet’s carrying capacity, he or she may 
\ be carrying a light, medium, or heavy load. Like armor, a character's, 
load affects his or her maximum Dexterity bonus to AC, carries a 
check penalty (which works like an armor check penalty), reduces 
the character's speed, and affects how fast the character can run, as 


Arotitable 


wonster Canttatskent 


eav 6ONGE `” 
4 ae 
TFEeLALOrceg whee s 


Fire proot 
frasan bide 


NY 

> 

EE 

ae © 

J A 

j "eat wear g 
w~ S 

a~ 

pice = 


shown on Table 9-2: Carrying Loads. A medium or heavy load 
counts as medium or heavy armor for the purpose of abilities 
or skills that are restricted by armor. Carrying a light load 
does not encumber,a-character. 

If your character is wearing armor, use the worse figure 
(from armor or from load) for each category. Do not stack 
the penalties. 

For example, Tordek is wearing scale mail. As shown on 
Table 7—6: Armorand-Shields, this armor cuts his maxi- 
mum Dex bonus to AC to +3 and gives him a —4 armor 
check penalty (and would cut his speed to 15 feet, were he 
not a dwarf and thus able to move normally even when 
éncumbered by armor or a load). The total weight of his 
gear, including armor, is 71-1/2 pounds. Since Tordek has 
a Strength of 15, his maximum carrying capacity, or max- 
imum load, is 200 pounds. A medium load for him is 67 
pounds or more, and a heavy load'ig 134 pounds or 
more, so he is carrying a medium load. Looking at the 
medium load line on Table 9-2: Carrying Loads, his 
playersees that these figures are all equal to or less than 
than the!penalties that Tordek is already incurring for 
wearing scale mail, so he takes no extra penalties. 

Mialee has a Strength of 10, and she's carrying 28 
pounds of gear. Her light load limit is 33 pounds, so 
she’s carrying a light load (no penalties). She finds 
500 gold'pieces (weighing 10 pounds) and adds 
them to her load;-so now she’s carrying a medium load. 
Doing soreduces her speed from 30 feet to 20 feet, gives 
her a -3 check penalty, and sets her maximum Dex- 
terity bonus to-AC at +3 (which is okay with her, 
since that’s her Dexterity bonus anyway). 


ro2 


TABLE 9—1: CARRYING CAPACITY 


++ —+—++ 


+ 


Strength Score Light Load Medium Load Heavy Load 
1 3 Ib. or less 4—6 |b. 7-10 |b. 
2 6 Ib. or less _7-13 |b. 14-20 lb. 
3 10 Ib. or less 11-20 |b. 21-30 lb. | 
4 13 Ib. or less 14-26 |b. 27-40 lb. 
5 16 |b. or less 17-33 |b. 34-50 lb. 
i 6 20 Ib. or less 21-40 lb. 41-60 lb. 
7 23 |b. or less 24—46 lb. 47-70 lb. 
8 26 |b. or less 27-53 |b. 54-80 lb. 
9 30 Ib. or less 31-60 |b. 61-90 Ib. | 
L 10 33 Ib. or less 34—66 Ib. 67-100 lb. 
11 38 Ib. or less 39-76 |b. 77-115 |b. 
12 43 Ib. or less 44-86 |b. 87-130 |b. 
18 50 Ib. or less 51-100 Ib. 101-150 |b. 
14 58 Ib. or less 59-116 lb. 117-175 lb. 
l 15 66 lb. or less 67-133 |b. 134-200 lb. 
L 16 76 |b. or less 77-153 |b. 154-230 lb. 
Wy 86 Ib. or less 87-173 |b. 174-260 lb. 
18 100 Ib. or less 101-200 lb. 201-300 Ib. 
19 116 lb. or less 117-233 |b. 234-350 Ib. | 
20 133 Ib. or less 134-266 lb. 267-400 Ib. 
21 153 Ib. or less 154-306 |b. 307—460 lb. 
22 173 |b. or less 174-346 lb. 347-520 lb. 
23 200 Ib. or less 201-400 |b. 401-600 Ib. 
24 233 |b. or less 234-466 |b. 467-700 Ib. 
25 266 Ib. or less 267-533 Ib. 534-800 lb. 
L 26 306 Ib. or less 307-613 |b. 614-920 Ib. 
2p 346 Ib. or less 347-693 |b. 694-1,040 Ib. 
28 400 Ib. or less 401-800 Ib. 801-1,200 Ib. 
29 466 lb. or less 467-933 Ib. 934-1,400 lb. 
+10 x4 x4 x4 


Then Mialee is knocked unconscious in a fight, and Tordek 
wants to carry her out of the dungeon. She weighs 104 pounds, 
and her gear weighs 28 pounds (or 38 pounds with the gold), so 
Tordek can’t quite manage to carry her and her gear, because doing 
so would put him over his 200-pound maximum load. Fortunately, 
their companion Jozan is able to carry her gear and the gold, so all 
Tordek has to worry about is Mialee herself. Tordek hoists Mialee 
onto his shoulders, and now the dwarfis carrying 175-1/2 pounds. 
He can manage it, but it’s a heavy load. His maximum Dexterity 
bonus to AC drops to +1, his check penalty worsens from —4 (the 
armor check penalty for scale mail) to —6 (the check penalty for a 
heavy load), and now he runs at x3 speed instead of x4. 

Lifting and Dragging: A character can lift as much as his or 
her maximum load over his or her head. 

A character can lift as much as double his or her maximum load 
loff the ground, but he or she can only stagger around with it. While 
Loverloaded in this way, the character loses any Dexterity bonus to 
LAC and can move only 5 feet per round (as a full-round action). 

A character can generally push or drag along the ground as 
much as five times his or her maximum load. Favorable conditions 
(such as being on smooth ground or dragging a slick object) can 
double these numbers, and bad circumstances (such as being on 
broken ground or pushing an object that snags) can reduce them 
to one-half or less. = f 

Bigger and Smaller Creatures: The figures on Table 9-1: Car- 
rying Capacity are for Medium bipedal creatures. A larger bipedal 

_creature can carry more weight depending on its size category, as 
follows: Large x2, Huge x4, Gargantuan x8, Colossal x16. A 
smaller creature can carry less weight depending on its size cate- 

Teor, as follows: Small x3/4, Tiny x1/2, Diminutive x1/4, Fine 

.x1/8. Thus, a human with a Strength score magically boosted to 

‚equal that of a giant would still have a harder time lifting, say, a 
horse or a boulder than a giant would. 


+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


TABLE 9—2: CARRYING LOADS 


Max Check —— Speed | 

Load Dex Penalty (30ft.) (20 ft.) Run | 

Medium +3 -3 20 ft. 15 fg x4 i 
Heavy +1 -6 20 ft. 15 ft. x3 


Quadrupeds, such as horses, can carry heavier loads than char- 
acters can. Instead of the multipliers given above, multiply the 
value corresponding to the creature’s Strength score from Table | 


9-1 by the appropriate modifier, as follows: Fine x1/4, Diminutive | 


x1/2, Tiny x3/4, Small x1, Medium x1-1/2, Large x3, Huge X6, | 
Gargantuan X12, Colossal x24. = 

For example, Mialee, an elf with 10 Strength, can carry as much 
as 100 pounds. Lidda, a halfling with 10 Strength, can carry only , 
75 pounds. A donkey, a Medium animal with 10 Strength, can | 
carry as much as 150 pounds. 

Tremendous Strength: For Strength scores not shown on 


|Table 9-1, find the Strength score between 20 and 29 that has the. 
{same number in the “ones” digit as the creature's Strength score, 
does. Multiply the figures by 4 if the creature’s Strength is in the 


30s, 16 if it’s in the 40s, 64 if it’s in the 50s, and so on. For example, 
a cloud giant with a 35 Strength can carry four times what a crea- | 
ture with a 25 Strength can carry, or 3,200 pounds x 4 because the 
cloud giant is Huge, for a total of 12,800 pounds. 


EO 


| Characters spend a lot of time getting from one place to another. A | 


character who needs to reach the evil tower might choose to walk | 
along the road, hire a boat to row along the river, or cut cross-coun-_ 
try on horseback. In addition, a character can climb trees to get a} 
better look at his surroundings, scale mountains, or ford streams. | 
The DM moderates the pace of a game session, so he or she | 
determines when movement is so important that it’s worth meas- 
uring. During casual scenes, you usually won't have to worry about 
movement rates. If your character has come to a new city and 
takes a stroll to get a feel for the place, no one needs to know 
exactly how many rounds or minutes the circuit takes. 
There are three movement scales in the game, as follows. 
è Tactical, for combat, measured in feet (or squares) per round. 


TABLE 9—3: MOVEMENT AND DISTANCE 


Speed 

15 feet 20 feet 30 feet 40 feet 
One Round (Tactical)' 
Walk 15 ft. 20 ft. 30 ft. 40 ft. 
Hustle 30 ft. 40 ft. 60 ft. 80 ft. 
Run (x3) 45 ft. 60 ft. 90 ft. 120 ft. 
Run (x4) 60 ft. 80 ft. 120 ft. 160 ft. 
One Minute (Local) 
Walk 150 ft. 200 ft. 300 ft. 400 ft. 
Hustle 300 ft. 400 ft. 600 ft. 800 ft. 
Run (x3) 450 ft. 600ft.  900ft. 1,200 ft. 
Run (x4) 600 ft. 800 ft. 1,200 ft. 1,600 ft. 
One Hour (Overland) 
Walk 1-1/2 miles 2 miles 3 miles__4 miles 
Hustle 3 miles 4miles 6miles 8 miles 
Run a 
One Day (Overland) | 
Walk 12 miles 16 miles 24 miles 32 miles 
Hustle L 
Run 


‘1 Tactical movement is often measured in squares on the battle grid (1 
| square = 5 feet) rather than feet. See page 147 for more information 


on tactical movement in combat. 


Sige 4 a nn es ee RE T rat Ree 


TABLE 9—4: HAMPERED MOVEMENT 


Additional 

Condition Example Movement Cost 
Difficult terrain Rubble, undergrowth, steep x2 

slope, ice, cracked and pitted surface, 

uneven floor 
Obstacle! Low wall, deadfall, broken pillar x2 
Poor visibility Darkness or fog x2 
Impassable Floor-to-ceiling wall, closed door, — 


blocked passage 
1 May require a skill check 


* Local, for exploring an area, measured in feet per minute. 
e Overland, for getting from place to place, measured in miles per 
hour or miles per day. 


Modes of Movement: While moving at the different move- & 
ment scales, creatures generally walk, hustle, or run. 


ahr 


(1 square). In such a case, you may use a full-round action to move 
5 feet (1 square) in any direction, even diagonally. Even though 
this looks like a 5-foot step, it’s not, and thus it provokes attacks of 
opportunity normally. (You can't take advantage of this rule to 
move through impassable terrain or to move when all movement 
is prohibited to you, such as while paralyzed.) 

You can't run or charge through any square that would hamper 
your movement. 


LOCAL MOVEMENT 


Characters exploring an area use local movement, measured in 
feet per minute. 

Walk: A character can walk without a problem on the local 
scale, 

Hustle: A character can hustle without a problem on the local 
scale. See Overland Movement, below, for movement measured in 
miles per hour. 

Run: A character with a Constitution score of 9 or higher can 


a 
Walk: A walk represents unhurried but purposeful move- 4 ARS run fora minute without a problem. Generally, a character can run 


ment at 3 miles per hour for an unencumbered human. 

Hustle: A hustle is a jog at about 6 miles per hour for an 
unencumbered human. A character moving his or her 
speed twice in a single round, or moving that speed in 
the same round that he or she performs a standard 
action or another move action is hustling when he or 
she moves. 

Run (X3): Moving three times speed is a running 
pace for a character in heavy armor. It represents about 
9 miles per hour for a human in full plate. 

Run (x4): Moving four times speed is a running pace 
for a character in light, medium, or no armor. It repre- 
sents about 12 miles per hour for an unencumbered @ 
human, or 8 miles per hour for a human in chainmail. ` 


TACTICAL MOVEMENT 


Use tactical movement for combat, as detailed on 
page 147. Characters generally dont walk during 
combat—they hustle or run. A character who 
moves his or her speed and takes some action, 
such as attacking or casting a spell, is hustling for 
about half the round and doing something 
else the other half. 

Hampered Movement: Difficult ter- 
rain, obstacles, or poor visibility can 
hamper movement. When movement is 
hampered, each square moved into usu- 
ally counts as two squares, effectively 
reducing the distance that a character 
can cover in a move. For example, a | 
character moving through difficult 4# 
terrain (such as undergrowth) pays 2 
squares of movement per square 
moved into (double the normal cost). 

If more than one condition applies, 
multiply together all additional costs 
that apply. (This is a specific exception 
to the normal rule for doubling; see 
page 304.) For instance, a character 
moving through difficult terrain [ee 
in darkness would pay 4 squares of i 
movement per square moved into JA 
(double cost times double cost is ~ 
quadruple cost). 

In some situations, your 
movement may be so hampered that 
you don't have sufficient speed even to move 5 feet 


7 


al 


for a minute or two before having to rest for a minute (see Run, 
page 144). 


y Adventurers prepare for their 
: next challenge. 


RES 

gS s ss 

> = 
a R SR SN gS yS Gt =, 
Be Ag San ae za En s Gi aap 


N 
N 
5 

S 

x 

Y 
$. 
= 


TABLE 9—5: TERRAIN AND OVERLAND MOVEMENT _ 


1 Quadrupeds, such as horses, can carry heavier loads than characters 
can. See Carrying Capacity, above, for more information. 

2 Rafts, barges, keelboats, and rowboats are used on lakes and rivers. 
If going downstream, add the speed _of the current (typically 3 miles 
per hour) to the speed of the vehicle. In addition to 10 hours of 
being rowed, the vehicle can also float an additional 14 hours, if 
someone can guide it, so add an additional 42 miles to the daily 
distance traveled. These vehicles can’t be rowed against any 
significant current, but they can be pulled upstream by draft animals 

__on the shores. 


OVERLAND MOVEMENT 


Characters covering long distances cross-country use overland 
movement. Overland movement is measured in miles per hour or 
miles per day. A day represents 8 hours of actual travel time. For 
rowed watercraft, a day represents 10 hours of rowing. Fora sailing 
ship, it represents 24 hours. 

Walk: A character can walk 8 hours in a day of travel without a 
problem. Walking for longer than that can wear him or her out 
(see Forced March, below). 

_ Hustle: A character can hustle for 1 hour without a problem. 
_Hustling for a second hour in between sleep cycles deals 1 point of 
nonlethal damage, and each additional hour deals twice the 

Tna taken during the previous hour of hustling. A character 
{who takes any nonlethal damage from hustling becomes fatigued. 
_A fatigued character can't run or charge and takes a penalty of —2 
to Strength and Dexterity. Eliminating the nonlethal damage also 
eliminates the fatigue. 


Terrain Highway Road or Trail Trackless 

Desert, sandy xl x1/2 x1/2 

Forest xL xI x1/2_ 

Hills xl x3/4 x1/2 

Jungle S.a Pana x3/4 x1/4 SY 

Moor xl xl x3/4 | 

|Mountains x3/4 x3/4 x1/2 | 

Plains xl xl x3/4 i 

Swamp xl x3/4 x1/2 | 

Tundra, frozen xl x3/4 x3/4 

TABLE 9—6: MOUNTS AND VEHICLES 

Mount/Vehicle Per Hour Per Day 

Mount (carrying load) 
Light horse or light warhorse 6 miles 48 miles 

~ Light horse (151-450 Ib.)! 4 miles 32 miles 

Light warhorse (231-690 Ib.)' 4 miles 32 miles | 

| Heavy horse or heavy warhorse 5 miles 40 miles | 

| Heavy horse (201-600 Ib.) 3-1/2 miles 28 miles _ 
Heavy warhorse (301-900 Ib.)" 3-1/2 miles 28 miles 
Pony or warpony 4 miles 32 miles 
Pony (76-225 |b.)" 3 miles 24 miles 
Warpony (101-300 Ib.)' 3 miles 24 miles 
Donkey or mule 3 miles 24 miles 
Donkey (51-150 lb.)' 2 miles 16 miles 
Mule (231-690 Ib.)' 2 miles 16 miles 

___Dog, riding 4 miles 32 miles 

` Dog, riding (101-300 Ib.)" 3 miles 24 miles 

‘Cart or wagon 2 miles 16 miles 

Ship 

___Raft or barge (poled or towed)? 1/2 mile _5 miles 

_ Keelboat (rowed)? 1 mile 10 miles 

| Rowboat (rowed)? 1-1/2 miles 15 miles 
Sailing ship (sailed) 2 miles 48 miles 
Warship (sailed and rowed) 2-1/2 miles 60 miles 
Longship (sailed and rowed) 3 miles 72 miles 
Galley (rowed and sailed) 4 miles 96 miles 


Í 
+ 
| 
+ 


+ 


+ 


Run: A character can't run for an extended period of time. 
Attempts to run and rest in cycles effectively work out to a hustle. | 
Terrain: The terrain through which a character travels affects | 
how much distance he or she can cover in an hour or a day (see. 
|Table 9-5: Terrain and Overland Movement). Travel is quickest on 
la highway, not quite as fast on a road or trail, and slowest through 
trackless terrain. A highway is a straight, major, paved road. A road 
is typically a dirt track. A trail is like a road, except that it allows 
only single-file travel and does not benefit a party traveling with , 


‚vehicles. Trackless terrain is a wild area with no paths. | 


Forced March: In a day of normal walking, a character walks | 
for 8 hours. The rest of the daylight time is spent making and 
breaking camp, resting, and eating. ; 

A character can walk for more than 8 hours in a day by making | 
a forced march. For each hour of marching beyond 8 hours, a Con- | 
stitution check (DC 10, +2 per extra hour) is required. If the check 


fails, the character takes 1d6 points of nonlethal damage. A char- 
{acter who takes any nonlethal damage from a forced march. 
\becomes fatigued. Eliminating the nonlethal damage also elimi- 
nates the fatigue. It’s possible for a character to march into uncon- 


sciousness by pushing himself too hard. 

Mounted Movement: A mount bearing a rider can move at a_ 
hustle. The damage it takes when doing so, however, is lethal 
damage, not nonlethal damage. The creature can also be ridden in 
a forced march, but its Constitution checks automatically fail, and, 
again, the damage it takes is lethal damage. Mounts also become 
fatigued when they take any damage from hustling or forced, 


matches. 


See Table 9-6: Mounts and Vehicles for mounted speeds and_ 
speeds for vehicles pulled by draft animals. ae 
Waterborne Movement: See Table 9—6: Mounts and Vehicles , 
for speeds for water vehicles. 


— 4 


_ EXPLORATION: 


Adventurers spend time exploring dark caverns, cursed ruins, cat- 
acombs, and other dangerous and forbidding areas. A little careful 
forethought can help them in their adventures. 


PREPARATIONS 


Characters should have the supplies they need for their adven- 
tures: arrows, food, water, torches, bedrolls, or whatever is needed 
for the task at hand. Rope, chains, crowbars, and other tools can 
come in handy, too. Characters should have ranged weapons, if 
possible, for combats in which they can't close with the enemy (or 
don't want to). Horses are useful for overland journeys, while sure- 
footed pack donkeys and mules can be handy for exploring ruins 
and dungeons. 


VISION AND LIGHT 


Characters need a way to see in the dark, dangerous places where 
they often find adventures. Dwarves and half-orcs have dark- 
vision, but everyone else needs light to see by. Typically, adven- 
turers bring along torches or lanterns, and spellcasters have 
spells that can create light. See Table 9-7: Light Sources and Illu- 
mination for the radius that a light source illuminates and how 
long it lasts. | 
In an area of bright light, all characters can see clearly. A crea- | 
ture can't hide in an area of bright light unless it is invisible or | 
has cover. } 
In an area of shadowy illumination, a character can see dimly. | 
Creatures within this area have concealment (see page 152) rela- 4 
tive to that character. A creature in an area of shadowy illumina- | 


[tion can make a Hide check to conceal itself (see page 76). 


In areas of darkness, creatures without darkvision are effec- 


\tively blinded. In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded 


creature has a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have 


TABLE 9—7: LIGHT SOURCES AND ILLUMINATION 


Object Bright Shadowy Duration 
Candle n/a! 5 fit, 1 hr. 
Everburning torch -20 ft. ___40 ft. Permanent 
Lamp, common 15 ft. 30 ft. 6hr./pint , 
Lantern, bullseye? 60-ft. cone 120-ft. cone 6 hr./pint_ } 
Lantern, hooded 30 ft. 60 ft. 6hr./pint ; 
‘Sunrod 30 ft. 60 ft. 6 hr. | 
Torch 20 ft. 40 ft. 1 hr. L 
‘Spell Bright Shadowy Duration 
Continual flame 20 ft. 40 ft. Permanent 
Dancing lights (torches) 20 ft. (each) 40 ft. (each) 1 min. 
Daylight 60 ft. 120 ft. 30 min. 
Light 20 ft. 40 ft. 10 min. 


1 A candle does not provide bright illumination, only shadowy 
„illumination. = a 
¿2 A bullseye lantern illuminates a cone, not a radius. 


[total concealment), loses any Dexter- | 
ity bonus to AC, takes a—2 penalty to # 
AC, moves at half speed, and takes a 
—4 penalty on Search checks and 
most Strength and Dexterity-based 
skill checks. 

Characters with low-light vision 
(elves, gnomes, and half-elves) can f 
{see objects twice as far away as the “ 
| given radius. Double the effective 
\radius of bright light and of shad- 
Lowy illumination for such charac- 
| ters. For example, a torch provides 
bright illumination to a radius of 
140 feet (rather than 20 feet) for a 

character with low-light vision, 
and it provides shadowy illumina- 
tion to a radius of 80 feet (rather 
than 40 feet). 

Characters with darkvision 
(dwarves and half-orcs) can see lit 
areas normally as well as dark 
areas within 60 feet. A creature“ 
can't hide within 60 feet of a charac- 
ter with darkvision unless it is invisible 
or has cover. 


BREAKING AND 
ENTERING 


There inevitably comes a time when a 
character must break something, 
whether it’s a door, a chain, or a chest 
full of treasure. —  — 
When attempting to break an 
object, you have two choices: smash 
it with a weapon or break it with 
sheer strength. 


Smashing an Object : 5: 

Smashing a weapon or shield with a slashing or bludgeoning 
weapon is accomplished by the sunder special attack (see 
Sunder, page 158). Smashing an object is a lot like sundering a 

weapon or shield, except that your attack roll is opposed by the 

[object's AC. Generally, you can smash an object only with a 


they usually dont move, but many are tough enough to shrug! 
off some damage from each blow. An object’s Armor Class is. 


Eberk 


equal to 10 + its size modifier + its Dexterity modifier. An inani- , 
mate object has not only a Dexterity of 0 (—5 penalty to AC), but} 
also an additional —2 penalty to its AC. Furthermore, if you take | 
a full-round action to line up a shot, you get an automatic hit, 
.with a melee weapon and a +5 bonus on attack rolls with a 
iranged weapon. £ 
Hardness: Each object has hardness—a number that repre- 
sents how well it resists damage. Whenever an object takes 
damage, subtract its hardness from the damage. Only damage in. 


„excess of its hardness is deducted from the object's hit points (see; 


|Table 9-8: Common Armor, Weapon, and Shield Hardness and | 
Hit Points; Table 9-9: Substance Hardness and Hit Points; and 
Table 9-11: Object Hardness and Hit Points). = 
Hit Points: An object’s hit point total depends on what it is, 
made of and how big it is (see Table 9-8, Table 9-9, and Table | 
9-11). When an object’s hit points reach 0, it’s ruined. 
Very large objects have separate hit point totals for 

\ different sections. For example, you can attack and ruin a, 
=) wagon wheel without destroying the whole wagon. | 

Energy Attacks: Acid and sonic attacks deal 
damage to most objects just as they do to crea- ; 
tures; roll damage and apply it normally. 
_after a successful hit. Electricity 
and fire attacks deal half damage 
to most objects; divide the 
damage dealt by 2 before 


damage to most objects; ] 
divide the damage dealt | 
by 4 before applying) 
the hardness. ae | 
Ranged Weapon Dam- 
age: Objects take half 
damage from ranged weap- 
ons (unless the weapon is a 
siege engine or something 
similar). Divide the damage 
dealt by 2 before applying the 
object’s hardness. 
Ineffective Weapons: The DM may 
_ determine that certain weapons just 
_ can't effectively deal damage to certain 
objects. For example, you may have a 
hard time chopping down a door by 
shooting arrows at it or cutting a rope 
with a club. 
Immunities: Objects are immune to 
' nonlethal damage and to critical hits. 
) Even animated objects, which are otherwise con- 
\ sidered creatures, have these immunities because 
they are constructs. 
Magic Armor, Shields, and Weapons: Each +1 
of enhancement bonus adds 2 to the hardness 
of armor, a weapon, or a shield and +10 to the 
item's hit points. For example, a +1 longsword has hard- 
ness 12 and 15 hp, while a +3 heavy steel shield has hard-_ 
ness 16 and 50 hp. ee | 
Vulnerability to Certain Attacks: The DM may rule that certain | 
attacks are especially successful against some objects. For example, } 
it’s easy to light a curtain on fire, chop down a tree with an ax, or rip | 
up a scroll. In such cases, attacks deal double their normal damage | 
and may (at the DM's discretion) ignore the object’s hardness. { 
Damaged Objects: A damaged object remains fully functional until | 
| the items hit points are reduced to 0, at which point it is destroyed. 
|For instance, the wielder of a damaged weapon takes no penalty 
due to the weapon's damage, and damaged armor and shields still 


attacks deal one-quarter _ 


SN 
>= 
S 
n 

Si 
a 
X 
NX 


TABLE 9—8: COMMON ARMOR, WEAPON, __ 
AND SHIELD HARDNESS AND HIT POINTS 


Weapon or Shield Example Hardness HP! 
Light blade Short sword 10 2 
One-handed blade Longsword 10 re) 
Two-handed blade Greatsword 10 10 , 
‘Light metal-hafted weapon _— Light mace 10 104 
One-handed metal-hafted weapon Heavy mace 10 20 | 
‘Light hafted weapon Handaxe 5 24 
One-handed hafted weapon Battleaxe 5 bat 
‘Two-handed hafted weapon Greataxe 5 10 { 
Projectile weapon Crossbow 5 5 
Armor — special? armor 
= bonus x 5 
Buckler — 10 5 
Light wooden shield — 5 7 
Heavy wooden shield — 5 15 
Light steel shield — 10 10 £ 
Heavy steel shield — 10 200 
‘Tower shield — 5 20. 


1 The hp value given is for Medium armor, weapons, and shields. 
Divide by 2 for each size category of the item smaller than Medium, or 
multiply it by 2 for each size category larger than Medium. 

2 Varies by material; see Table 9-9. 


TABLE 9—9: SUBSTANCE HARDNESS AND HIT POINTS 


‘Substance Hardness Hit Points 

Paper or cloth 0 2/inch of thickness 
\Rope 0 2/inch of thickness 
‘Glass 1 1/inch of thickness 
Ice 0 3/inch of thickness _ 
Leather or hide 2 5/inch of thickness 
Wood 5 10/inch of thickness 
Stone 8 15/inch of thickness 
Iron or steel 10 30/inch of thickness 
Mithral 15 30/inch of thickness 
Adamantine 20 40/inch of thickness 


provide their full normal bonus to AC. Damaged (but not) 
destroyed) objects can be repaired with the Craft skill (see page 70). | 
Saving Throws: Nonmagical, unattended items never make | 
saving throws. They are considered to have failed their saving 
throws, so they always are affected by (for instance) a disintegrate 


TABLE 9-10: SIZE AND ARMOR CLASS OF OBJECTS 


Size (Example) _ AC Modifier Size (Example) AC Modifier | 
Colossal (broad -8 Medium (barrel) +0 
side of a barn) Small (chair) +l 
¿Gargantuan (narrow. —4 Tiny (book) +2 
l} side of a barn) a Diminutive (scroll) +4 
| Huge (wagon) =?) Fine (potion) +8 


Large (big door) zL. 


TABLE 9—11: OBJECT HARDNESS AND HIT POINTS 


Object Hardness Hit Points___ Break DC 
Rope (1 inch diam.) 0 2 23 
Simple wooden door 5 10 = 13 
Small chest 5 1 17 
Good wooden door 5 15 18 
Treasure chest 5 15 23 
_Strong wooden door 5 20 23 
| Masonry wall (1 ft. thick) 8 90 35 
\Hewn stone (3 ft. thick). 8 540 50 
¿Chain 10 5 26 
Manacles 10 10 26 
Masterwork manacles 10 10 28 
Iron door (2 in. thick) 10 60 28 


TABLE 9—12: DCs To BREAK OR BURST ITEMS _ 


Strength Check to: DC —_—= = = 
Break down simple door 18 
| Break down good door 18 

Break down strong door 23 

Burst rope bonds 23 

Bend iron bars 24 

Break down barred door 25 7 
Burst chain bonds 26 

Break down iron door 28 

Condition DC Adjustment! 

Hold portal +5 

Arcane lock +10 


1 If both apply, use the larger number. 


spell. An item attended by a character (being grasped, touched, or 
worn) makes saving throws as the character (that is, using the 
character's saving throw bonus). 


HOW PLAYERS CAN HELP 
Here are a few ways in which you can help the game go more smoothly. 
Mapping: Someone should keep a map of places you explore so that 
you know where you’ve been and where you have yet to explore. The 
responsibility for mapping can be rotated from person to person, if more 
than one player likes to do this sort of thing, but as a rule the same 
person should be the mapper throughout a single playing session. 

A map is most useful and most important when the characters are 
in a dungeon setting—an environment with lots of corridors, doors, 
and rooms that would be almost impossible to navigate through with- 
out a record of what parts the characters have already explored. 

To make a map, you start with a blank sheet of paper (graph paper 
is best) and draw the floor plan of the dungeon as you and your group 
discover it and the Dungeon Master describes what you’re seeing. 
For example, when the characters come to a new, empty room, the 
DM might say, “The door you have opened leads east into a room 25 
feet wide and 30 feet deep. The door is in the middle of the room’s 
west wall, and you can see two other doors: one in the north wall near 
the corner with the east wall, and one in the east wall about 5 feet 
south of the middle.” Or, if it’s easier for you to visualize, the DM 


might express the information this way: “From the north edge of the 
door, the wall goes two squares north, six squares east, five squares 
south, six squares west, and then north back to the door. There’s a 
door on the sixth square of the north wall and on the fourth square of 
the east wall.” 

Party Notes: It often pays to keep notes: names of NPCs the heroes 
have met, treasure the group has won, secrets the characters have 
learned, and so forth. The Dungeon Master might keep track of all this 
information for his or her own benefit, but even so it can be handy for 
you to jot down facts that might be needed later—at the least, doing 
this prevents you from having to ask the Dungeon Master, “What was 
the name of that old man we met in the woods last week?” 

Character Notes: You should keep track of hit points, spells, and 
other characteristics about your character that change during an 
adventure on scratch paper. Between playing sessions, you might 
decide to write some of this information directly on your character 
sheet—but don’t worry about updating the sheet constantly. For 
instance, it would be tedious (and could make a mess of the sheet) if 
you erased your character's current hit points and wrote in a new 
number every time he or she took damage. 


4 


Magic items always get saving throws. A magic item's Forti- 
tude, Reflex, and Will save bonuses are equal to 2 + one-half its 
caster level. An attended magic item either makes saving throws 
as its owner or uses its own saving throw bonus, whichever is 
better. (Caster levels of magic items are covered in the Dungeon 
Master's Guide.) 

Example of Breaking an Object: Lidda, a rogue, can't pick the 
lock on the big treasure chest that Mialee, the elf, just found 
behind a secret door, so Krusk, the barbarian, volunteers to 
open it in a more straightforward manner. He chops at it with 
his greataxe, dealing 10 points of damage. The chest, made of 
wood, has hardness 5, so the chest takes only 5 points of damage 
from his attack. The wood is 1 inch thick, so it had 10 hit points. 
Now it has 5. Krusk has gouged the wood but not yet broken the 
chest open. On his second attack, he deals 4 points of damage. 
That’s lower than the chest’s hardness, so the chest takes no 
damage at all—a glancing blow. His third blow, however, deals 
12 points of damage (which means the chest takes 7), and the 
chest breaks open. 

Animated Objects: Animated objects (see the Monster Manual) 
count as creatures for purposes of determining their Armor Class 
(do not treat them as inanimate objects). 


Breaking Items 
When a character tries to break something with sudden force 
rather than by dealing damage, use a Strength check (rather than 
an attack roll and damage roll, as with the sunder special attack) to 
see whether he or she succeeds. The DC depends more on the con- 
struction of the item than on the material. For instance, an iron 
door with a weak lock can be forced open much more easily than 
it can be hacked down. 

If an item has lost half or more of 
its hit points, the DC to break it y 
drops by 2. N 
Larger and smaller f 
creatures get size T A 
bonuses and size 


penalties on Strength checks to break open doors as follows: Fine 
—16, Diminutive —12, Tiny —8, Small —4, Large +4, Huge +8, Gar- 
gantuan +12, Colossal +16. 

A crowbar (page 126) or portable ram (page 127) improves a 
character's chance of breaking open a door. 


MARCHING ORDER 


The characters in a party need to decide what their marching 
order is. Marching order is the relative position of the characters 
to each other while they are moving (who is in front of or next to 
whom). Arrange your miniature figures on the battle grid to rep- 
resent the PCs’ relative locations. You can change the marching 
order as the party enters different areas, as characters get 
wounded, or at other times for any reason. 

In a marching order, the sturdiest characters, such as barbar- 
ians, fighters, and paladins, usually go in front. Wizards, sorcerers, 
and bards often find a place in the middle or back of the party, 
where they are protected from direct attack. Clerics and druids are 
good choices for rear guard. They’re tough enough to withstand a 
rear attack, and they’re important enough as healers that it’s risky 
to put them in the front line. Rogues, rangers, and monks might 
serve as stealthy scouts, though they have to be careful if they're 
away from the safety of the party. 

If the characters are not far apart, they can protect each other, 
but they’re more vulnerable to many spells when they cluster 
together, so sometimes it pays to spread out a little. 


ee E A REN 


When characters undertake adventures, they usually end up with 

some amount of silver, gold, gems, or other treasure. These 

rewards might be ancient treasures that they have unearthed, the 

hoards of the villains they have conquered, or pay from a patron 
who hired them to go on the adventure. 

Splitting Treasure: Split treasure evenly among the 

characters who participated. Some characters may be of 

higher level than others, or some might happen to have 

i done more on a particular adventure than others did, but the 

M simplest, fastest, and best policy is to split up treasure evenly. 


431504 £ hq "snr 


Lidda savors the rewards of opening the treasure chest. 


` Ei ne ke s ~ 
$ a AEI YE oN i oe -a gor os 
Š icer ix 2 SN Pa cr zr ani BO a 

aT 


Special Items: While gems can be Costs: Sometimes characters incur costs on adventures. A char- 

cashed in for gold pieces and the coins acter turned to stone by a basilisk may need a break enchantment 

f split evenly among adventurers, some spell, and it costs at least 450 gp to pay a cleric to cast that spell. (See 

MP treasures can't be split up so easily. Table 7-8: Goods and Services, page 128. A cleric must be at least 

ļ Magic items, for instance, can be 9th level to cast break enchantment, which is a 5th-level spell.) The 

sold, but only for half of what they default policy is to pay these costs out of the treasure found on the 

would cost to buy, so it’s usually adventure, as a sort of “adventurer’s insurance,” and then split what- 
better for characters to keep them. ever's left. 


Party Fund: The party may also want to have a pool of 

money that its members can use to buy things that 
benefit the whole group, such as potions of healing or 
holy water. 

Amassing Wealth: When you and your friends 
J have split up the treasure among the characters, 
record your character’s share on your character sheet. 
Soon, he or she will have enough gold to buy better 
weapons and equipment, even magic items. 


When a character gets a magic item, 
count half its cost against his or her 
=~ share of the treasure. For instance, if 
te. Jozan, Lidda, Mialee, and Tordek split a , 
rey treasure of 5,000 gp and a +1 heavy steel R) 
shield, the group would count the 
magic shield as worth 500 gp, 
roughly half the price some- 
one would have to 
* pay to buy one. y 
Since the treasure à 
A is worth 5,500 gp on 
PS y altogether, three char- The other rewards that characters can earn, 
acters would each ie - 2- and there are many, depend on the charac- 
Gold piece get 1,375 gp, and i ye ters’ actions and the style of campaign that 
[evactsize] the fourth char- the DM is running. They bear mention, 
acter (probably but the rules cannot define them. These 
Tordek or Jozan) would get the rewards develop naturally in the campaign. 


shield (valued at 500 gp) plus 875 
gp in coin. RE PUTATION 

If more than one character You can't put it in the bank, but many char- 
wants a single item, those in- acters enjoy and even pursue fame and 
terested in it can bid for it. For notoriety. Someone who seeks a reputa- 
example, Jozan and Tordek both tion should wear distinctive clothes or 
want the shield, so they bid Ø j \ armor, should treat bards well, and 


over how much they’re each might even want to invent a personal 


willing to “pay” for it. Tordek Wy symbol for signet rings, surcoats, 
wins the bid at 800 gp. That Ne í) banners, and other forms of display. 
wa 


Tilus. by S. Wood 


means the total treasure is : 1 ie 
5,800 gp. Mialee, Jozan, and A ` 2 FOLLOWERS 

Lidda each get 1,450 gp, AN , : When others hear of the characters, 
and Tordek gets the shield oS they may offer their services as follow- 
(800 gp) plus 650 gp. SPP ers. Followers may be apprentices, admirers, 

A character can bid only f Y henchmen, students, or sidekicks. 
as much as his or her share of 
LAND 


the treasure would amount 

to, unless he or she has A character (or a party) might gain land through 
extra gold pieces or trea- force of arms or be granted a tract of land by a 
sure to back up the bid. powerful figure. Land brings in revenue appro- 
For example, if Tordek priate to its type (such as taxes on harvests in 
had no other treasure arable land), and it provides a place for a character 
from earlier adventures, (or party) to build a stronghold of some kind. In 
the most he could bid addition to being a base and a safe place, a strong- 
for the magic shield is hold can serve as a church, a monastery, a wizards’ 
1,250 gp—he would school, or fulfill some other purpose, as the master of 

the stronghold wishes. 


get the shield, and 
the other three char- 
acters would split Kerwyn TITLES AND HONORS 
the 5,000 gp. High priests, nobles, and royals often acknowledge the 
If no one is will- services of powerful characters by granting them 
ing to take a spe- honors and titles. These awards are sometimes 
handed out along with gifts of gold or land, 
memberships in elite orders, or medals, 


cial item, the 
party members 

signet rings, diadems, and other symbolic 
items. 


should sell it 
(for half its 
cost, as listed 
in the Dungeon Master’s Guide, if they can find 
a buyer) and split the gold evenly. 


j 


BS 


y is 
y ta Epea pS 


SOF 


g7 WP 


<2 if he e 

3 ý TESS Y 
Z PEN ok & Piua 

Bok SS cath a Se X 


between the kinds of special abilities, some of which are magical. 


ScHOooLS oF MAGIC 


LAWFUL.: \e 
> {i Aura 


Si); 
way 
A Wi 


AN 


WN 


Ag yh u P. 


x 
© 


TAN wit 


a 


Ç 
efore setting out on a dangerous journey with her com- 
panions, Mialee sits in her study and opens her spellbook. 
First she pages through it, selecting the spells that she 
thinks will be most useful on her adventure. When she 
has chosen the spells she wants (which could mean 
choosing the same spell more than once), she meditates on the 
pages that describe each one. The arcane symbols, which she has 
penned by hand, would be nonsense to anyone else, but they 
unlock power from her mind. As she concentrates, she all but fin- 
ishes casting each spell that she prepares. Each spell now lacks 
only its final trigger. When she closes the book, her mind is full of 
spells, each of which she can complete in a brief time. 

A spell is a one-time magical effect. Spells come in two types: 
arcane (cast by bards, sorcerers, and wizards) and divine (cast by 
clerics, druids, and experienced paladins and rangers). Some 
spellcasters select their spells from a limited list of spells 
known, while others have access to a wide variety of options. 
Most spellcasters prepare their spells in advance—whether 
from.a spellbook or through devout prayers and meditation— 
while some cast spells spontaneously without preparation. 
Despite these different ways that characters use to learn or pre- 
pare their spells, when it comes to casting them, the spells are 
very much alike. 

Cutting across the categories of arcane and divine spells are the 
eight schools of magic. These schools represent the different ways 
that spells take effect. This chapter describes the differences 
between the eight schools of magic. In addition, it provides an 
overview of the spell description format, an extensive discussion 
of how spells work, information about what happens when magi- 
cal effects combine, and an explanation of the differences 


E pi DN X ANY } 
ANY. ; ye S i 

À A i SS TR a 
` i WERA N q 

A hg ¥ VA 


$ 
KY 


HOW DOES SPELLCASTING WORK?: CTI 


< 


Api 5 
i N HEALING 


MY (eae 


pym p ha snr 


CEA 1 


ne ph. 


Ndi aaldVHO 


Whether a spell is arcane or divine, and whether a character 
prepares spells in advance or chooses them on the spot, 
casting a spell works the same way. 


Spells operate in different ways depending on the type of 
spell you're casting. Here are three basic examples. 

Charm Person: Tordek is bullying some goblins into 
revealing the whereabouts of their camp when Mialee 
casts charm person on oneof them. The DM rolls a WIHA 
saving throw for the goblin against Mialee’s save DC of 
13 for her 1st-level spells, and the save fails. Mialee is a 
ist-level wizard, and the spell lasts 1 hour per caster 
level, So for the next hour the goblin regards her as his 
friend, and she gets the information out of him. 

Summon Monster I: Lidda is fighting a hobgoblin, 
and Mialee casts summon monster I to conjure a celes- 
tial dog. She can haye the dog materialize in any loca- 
tion that she can see within 25 feet. She chooses to 
have it materialize on the opposite side of the hob- 
goblin from Lidda. One round later, when Mialee¢s 
finished casting the spell, the dog appears. It attacks 
immediately and gets a +2 bonus on its attack roll 
because it is flanking the hobgoblin. On Lidda’s 
next turn, she makesa sneak attack against the hob- 
goblin and kills it: The dog disappears at the start of 
Mialee’s next turn because summon monster I lasts only 1 | 
round for a 1st-level caster. 

Burning Hands: Mialee wants to cast burning hands 
on some Small centipedes, and she wants to hit as 


many of them as he can. She moves to a spot that puts three cen- 
tipedes within 15 feet of her, but none next to her, so they can't 
attack her while she is casting. She chooses a direction and casts 
her spell. A cone of magical flame shoots out 15 feet, catching the 
three centipedes in its area. Mialee’s player rolls 1d4 to see how. 


much damage each centipede takes and gets a result of 3. The DM _ 


‚makes a Reflex save (DC 13 for one of Mialee's 1st-level spells) for | 


t 


+ 


$ 


Leach centipede, and only one succeeds. Two centipedes take al 
points of damage each and drop. The lucky one takes half damage | 
(1 point) and survives. 

Casting a spell can be a straightforward process, such as when| 


(Jozan casts cure light wounds to remove some of the damage that 
_Tordek has taken, or it can be complicated, such as when Jozan is 


attempting to aim an insect plague by ear at a group of nagas who 
have hidden themselves in a deeper darkness spell, all the while 
avoiding the attacks of the nagas’ troglodyte servants. 


CHOOSING A SPELL 


First you must choose which spell to cast. If you're a cleric, dca 


[experienced paladin, experienced ranger, or wizard, you select from | 
among spells prepared earlier in the day and not yet cast (see Prepar- | 
ing Wizard Spells, page 177, and Preparing Divine Spells, page 179). 
If you're a bard or sorcerer, you can select any spell you know, pro- 
vided you are capable of casting spells of that level or higher. 

To cast a spell, you must be able to speak (if the spell has a verbal 
component), gesture (if it has a somatic component), and manipu- 
late the material components or focus (if any). Additionally, you 


[must concentrate to cast a spell—and it’s hard to concentrate in 


| 
t 
| 


t 


$ 


the heat of battle. (See below for details.) 

Ifa spell has multiple versions, you choose which version to use 
when you cast it. You don't have to prepare (or learn, in the case of 
a bard or sorcerer) a specific version of the spell. For example, resist 


„energy protects a creature from fire, cold, or other energy types. 


You choose when you cast the spell which energy type it will pro- 


‘tect the subject from. 


G 


Once you've cast a prepared spell, you can't cast it again until you 
prepare it again. (If you've prepared multiple copies of a single spell, , 
you can cast each copy once.) If you're a bard or sorcerer, casting a, 
spell counts against your daily limit for spells of that spell level, but | 
you can cast the same spell again if you haven't reached your limit. | 


ONCENTRATION 


To cast a spell, you must concentrate. If something interrupts your 
concentration while you're casting, you must make a Concen- 
tration check or lose the spell. The more distracting the interrup- 
tion and the higher the level of the spell you are trying to cast, the 
higher the DC is. (More powerful spells require more mental 


_effort.) If you fail the check, you lose the spell just as if you had 


+ 


{cast it to no effect. 
|_ Injury: Getting hurt or being affected by hostile magic while 


trying to cast a spell can break your concentration and ruin the 
spell. If while trying to cast a spell you take damage, you must 
make a Concentration check (DC 10 + points of damage taken + 
the level of the spell you're casting). If you fail the check, you lose 
the spell without effect. The interrupting event strikes during 
spellcasting if it comes between when you start and when you 
complete a spell (for a spell with a casting time of 1 full round or 
more) or if it comes in response to your casting the spell (such as 
an attack of opportunity provoked by the spell or a contingent 
attack, such as a readied action). 

If you are taking continuous damage, such as from Melf’s acid 
arrow, half the damage is considered to take place while you are 
casting a spell. You must make a Concentration check (DC 10 + 
1/2 the damage that the continuous source last dealt + the level of 
the spell you're casting). If the last damage dealt was the last 
damage that the effect could deal (such as the last round of a Melf’s 
acid arrow), then the damage is over, and it does not distract you. 


COUNTERSPELLS — 


Repeated damage, such as from a spiritual weapon, does not count , 
as continuous damage. | 

Spell: If you are affected by a spell while attempting to cast a | 
spell of your own, you must make a Concentration check or lose | 


ithe spell you are casting. If the spell affecting you deals damage, 
_\the DC is 10 + points of damage + the level of the spell you're cast- 
ling. If the spell interferes with you or distracts you in some other 


way, the DC is the spell’s saving throw DC + the level of the spell 
you're casting. For a spell with no saving throw, it’s the DC that the , 


_spell’s saving throw would have if a save were allowed. 


Grappling or Pinned: The only spells you can cast while grap] 
pling or pinned are those without somatic components and whose 
material components (if any) you have in hand. Even so, you must 
make a Concentration check (DC 20 + the level of the spell you're , 
casting) or lose the spell. 

Vigorous Motion: If you are riding on a moving mount, taking | 


la bouncy ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rough water, 
ibelowdecks in a storm-tossed ship, or simply being jostled in a, 
\similar fashion, you must make a Concentration check (DC 10 +, 
_the level of the spell you're casting) or lose the spell. 


Violent Motion: If you are on a galloping horse, taking a very , 
rough ride in a wagon, on a small boat in rapids or in a storm, on | 
deck in a storm-tossed ship, or being tossed roughly about in a | 
similar fashion, you must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + 
the level of the spell you're casting) or lose the spell. _ 

Violent Weather: You must make a Concentration check if 
you try to cast a spell in violent weather. If you are in a high wind | 


icarrying blinding rain or sleet, the DC is 5 + the level of the spell | 


youre casting. If you are in wind-driven hail, dust, or debris, the | 
DC is 10 + the level of the spell you're casting. In either case, you | 
lose the spell if you fail the Concentration check. Ifthe weather is | 
caused by a spell, use the rules in the Spell subsection above. | 
Casting Defensively: If you want to cast a spell without pro- | 
voking any attacks of opportunity, you need to dodge and weave. 
You must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the level of the 
spell youre casting) to succeed. You lose the spell if you fail. 
Entangled: If you want to cast a spell while entangled in a net 
or by a tanglefoot bag (page 128) or while you're affected by a spell 
with similar effects (such as entangle), you must make a DC 15 
Concentration check to cast the spell. You lose the spell if you fail. 


It is possible to cast any spell as a counterspell. By doing so, you are 
using the spells energy to disrupt the casting of the same spell by 
another character. Counterspelling works even if one spell is 
divine and the other arcane. 

How Counterspells Work: To use a counterspell, you must 
select an opponent as the target of the counterspell. You do this by 
choosing the ready action (page 160). In doing so, you elect to wait 
to complete your action until your opponent tries to cast a spell. 
(You may still move your speed, since ready is a standard action.) 

If the target of your counterspell tries to cast a spell, make a 
Spellcraft check (DC 15 + the spell’s level). This check is a free 
action. If the check succeeds, you correctly identify the oppo- 
nent’s spell and can attempt to counter it. If the check fails, you 
can't do either of these things. 

To complete the action, you must then cast the correct spell. As | 
a general rule, a spell can only counter itself: For example, a fireball 
spell is effective as a counter to another fireball spell, but not to any 
other spell, no matter how similar. Fireball cannot counter delayed 
blast fireball or vice versa. If you are able to cast the same spell and 
you have it prepared (if you prepare spells), you cast it, altering it 
slightly to create a counterspell effect. If the target is within range, 
both spells automatically negate each other with no other results. 

Counterspelling Metamagic Spells: Metamagic feats are not 
taken into account when determining whether a spell can be 
countered. For example, a normal fireball can counter a maximized 


fireball (that is, a fireball that has been enhanced by the metamagic ' 


feat Maximize Spell) and vice versa. 
Specific Exceptions: Some spells specifically counter each other, 
especially when they have diametrically opposed effects. For 


example, you can counter a haste spell with a slow spell as well as with | 
another haste spell, or you can counter reduce person with enlarge person... 
Dispel Magic as a Counterspell: You can use dispel magic to} 


\counterspell another spellcaster, and you don't need to identify 
ithe spell he or she is casting. However, dispel magic doesn't always 
„work as a counterspell (see the spell description, page 223). 


CASTER LEVEL 


_A spell’s power often depends on its caster level, which for most 
spellcasting characters is equal to your class level in the class you're 
using to cast the spell. For example, a fireball deals 1dé points of 
damage per caster level (to a maximum of 10d6), so a 10th-level 

„wizard can cast a more powerful fireball than a 5th-level wizard can. 

You can cast a spell at a lower caster level than normal, but the 

| caster level you choose must be high enough for you to cast the spell 


+ 
4+ 


+ 


+ 
+ 


Lin question, and all level-dependent features must be based on the, 
same caster level. For example, at 10th level, Mialee can cast a fireball , 


to a range of 800 feet for 10d6 points of damage. If she wishes, she 
can cast a fireball that deals less damage by casting the spell at a lower 
caster level, but she must reduce the range according to the selected 
caster level, and she can't cast fireball with a caster level lower than 
sth (the minimum level required for a wizard to cast fireball). 
|___In the event that a class feature, domain granted power, or other 
{special ability provides an adjustment to your caster level, that 
\adjustment applies not only to effects based on caster level (such 
Las range, duration, and damage dealt) but also to your caster level 
check to overcome your target’s spell resistance (see Spell Resis- 
| tance, page 177) and to the caster level used in dispel checks (both 
_the dispel check and the DC of the check). For instance, a 7th-level 
\cleric with the Good domain casts spells with the good descriptor 
as if he were 8th level. This means that his holy smite deals 4d8 
points of damage, he rolls 1d20+8 to overcome spell resistance 


with his good spells, and his protection from evil spell resists being. 


dispelled as if it had been cast by an 8th-level spellcaster. 


SPELL FAILURE 


If you ever try to cast a spell in conditions where the characteristics. 


of the spell (range, area, or the like) cannot be made to conform, the 
casting fails and the spell is wasted. For example, if you cast charm 
person on a dog, the spell fails because a dog is the wrong sort of 
target for the spell. 
Spells also fail if your concentration is broken and might fail if 
you're wearing armor while casting a spell with somatic compo- 
„nents (see Table 7—6: Armor and Shields, page 123). 


[Once you know which creatures (or objects or areas) are affected, 
and whether those creatures have made successful saving throws 
(if any were allowed), you can apply whatever results a spell entails. 

Many spells affect particular sorts of creatures. Repel vermin 
keeps vermin away, and calm animals can calm down animals and 
magical beasts. These terms, and terms like them, refer to specific 
creature types defined in the Monster Manual. 


SPECIAL SPELL EFFECTS 


Many special spell effects are handled according to the school of 
_the spells in question. For example, illusory figments all have cer- 
tain effects in common (see Illusion, page 173). Certain other spe- 
[cial spell II school 
_\cial spell features are found across spell schools. 
| Attacks: Some spell descriptions refer to attacking. For 
_instance, invisibility is dispelled if you attack anyone or anything 


+ 


4- 


while under its effects. All offensive combat actions, even those | 
that don't damage opponents (such as disarm and bull rush) are | 


considered attacks, Attempts to turn or rebuke undead count as, 
attacks. All spells that opponents resist with saving throws, that | 
deal damage, or that otherwise harm or hamper subjects are | 
attacks. Summon monster I and similar spells are not attacks, 
because the spells themselves don't harm anyone. 
|. Bonus Types: Many spells give their subjects bonuses to ability 
\scores, Armor Class, attacks, and other attributes. Usually, a bonus 
has a type that indicates how the spell grants the bonus. For 
example, mage armor grants an armor bonus to AC, indicating that, 
„the spell creates a tangible barrier around you. Shield of faith, on the | 
\other hand, grants a deflection bonus to AC, which makes attacks | 
veer off. (Bonus types are covered in detail in the Dungeon Master's 
Guide.) The important aspect of bonus types is that two bonuses of 
the same type don't generally stack. With the exception of dodge. 
bonuses, most circumstance bonuses, and racial bonuses, only the | 
better bonus works (see Combining Magical Effects, below). The 
same principle applies to penalties—a character taking two or 
imore penalties of the same type applies only the worst one. | 
| Bringing Back the Dead: Several spells have the power to, 
_restore slain characters to life. 

When a living creature dies, its soul departs its body, leaves the , 
Material Plane, travels through the Astral Plane, and goes to abide 
on the plane where the creature's deity resides. If the creature did 
not worship a deity, its soul departs to the plane corresponding to 
its alignment. Bringing someone back from the dead means 
retrieving his or her soul and returning it to his or her body. 

Level Loss: The passage from life to death and back again is a| 


wrenching journey for a being’s soul. Consequently, any creature | 


brought back to life usually loses one level of experience. The | 
character's new XP total is midway between the minimum needed | 
for his or her new (reduced) level and the minimum needed for 

the next one. If the character was 1st level at the time of death, he | 
or she loses 2 points of Constitution instead of losing a level. | 

This level loss or Constitution loss cannot be repaired by any 
mortal means, even wish or miracle. A revived character can regain 
a lost level by earning XP through further adventuring. A revived 
character who was 1st level at the time of death can regain lost 
points of Constitution by improving his or her Constitution score 
when he or she attains a level that allows an ability score increase. 

Preventing Revivification: Enemies can take steps to make it more 
difficult for a character to be returned from the dead. Keeping the 
body prevents others from using raise dead or resurrection to restore 
the slain character to life. Casting trap the soul prevents any sort of 
revivification unless the soul is first released. 

Revivification against One's Will: A soul cannot be returned to life 
if it does not wish to be. A soul knows the name, alignment, and 
patron deity (if any) of the character attempting to revive it and 
may refuse to return on that basis. For example, if Alhandra the pal- 
adin is slain and a high priest of Nerull (god of death) grabs her 
body, Alhandra probably does not wish to be raised from the dead 
by him. Any attempts he makes to revive her automatically fail. If 
the evil cleric wants to revive Alhandra to interrogate her, he needs 
to find some way to trick her soul, such as duping a good cleric into 
raising her and then capturing her once she is alive again. 


COMBINING MAGICAL EFFECTS 


Spells or magical effects usually work as described, no matter how | 
many other spells or magical effects happen to be operating in the | 
same area or on the same recipient. Except in special cases, a spell | 
does not affect the way another spell operates. Whenever a spell | 
has a specific effect on other spells, the spell description explains | 
that effect. Several other general rules apply when spells or magi- + 
cal effects operate in the same place: 

Stacking Effects: Spells that provide bonuses or penalties oul 
\attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, and other attributes usu- 
Lally do not stack with themselves. For example, two bless spells 

don't give twice the benefit of one bless. Both bless spells, however, 


wai 


continue to act simultaneously, and if one ends first, the other one 
continues to operate for the remainder of its duration. Likewise, 
two haste spells do not make a creature doubly fast. 

More generally, two bonuses of the same type don't stack even if 
they come from different spells (or from effects other than spells; _ 


see Bonus Types, above). For example, the enhancement bonus to + 


-Strength from a bull's strength spell and the enhancement bonus to | 
| Strength from a divine power spell don't stack. You use whichever , 

[bonus gives you the better Strength score. In the same way, a belt of | 
‚giant Strength gives you an enhancement bonus to Strength, which} 
(does not stack with the bonus you get from a bull’s strength spell. | 
\__Different Bonus Names: The bonuses or penalties from two dif- 
ferent spells stack if the modifiers are of different types. For 
example, bless provides a +1 morale bonus on saves against fear 
effects, and protection from evil provides a +2 resistance bonus on 
saves against spells cast by evil creatures. A character under the 
influence of spells gets a +1 bonus against fear effects, a +2 bonus 
,against spells cast by evil beings, and a +3 bonus against fear spells 
[cast by z eyil creatures. 

| A bonus that isn't named (just a “+2 bonus” rather than a “+21 
resistance bonus”) stacks with any bonus. 

Same Effect More than Once in Different Strengths: In cases when two. 
or more identical spells are operating in the same area or on the same 
target, but at different strengths, only the best one applies. For 
example, if a character takes a —4 penalty to Strength from a ray of 
enfeeblement spell and then receives a second ray of enfeeblement spell 
that applies a —6 penalty, he or she takes only the —6 penalty. Both 

[spells are still operating on the character, however. If one ray of enfee- 
| 
i 
| 


lblement spell is dispelled or its duration runs out, the other spell 
remains in effect, assuming that its duration has not yet expired. 

Same Effect with Differing Results: The same spell can sometimes 
| produce varying effects if applied to the same recipient more than 
_once. For example, a series of polymorph spells might turn a crea- 
| ture into a mouse, a lion, and then a snail. In this case, the last spell 
‘in the series trumps the others. None of the previous spells are 
actually removed or dispelled, but their effects become irrelevant 
while the final spell in the series lasts. 

One Effect Makes Another Irrelevant: Sometimes, one spell can; 


render a later spell irrelevant. For example, if a wizard is using a| 
| 


shapechange spell to take the shape of an eagle, a polymorph spell | 


could change her into a goldfish. The shapechange spell is not, 
negated, however, and since the polymorph spell has no effect on 
the recipient's special abilities, the wizard could use the shape- 
change effect to take any form the spell allows whenever she 
desires. If a creature using a shapechange effect becomes petrified 
by a flesh to stone spell, however, it turns into a mindless, inert 
statue, and the shapechange effect cannot help it escape. 

Multiple Mental Control Effects: Sometimes magical effects that 
_establish mental control render each other irrelevant. For example, a 
hold person effect renders any other form of mental control irrelevant 
| because it robs the subject of the ability to move. Mental controls 

that don't remove the recipient's ability to act usually do not interfere 
with each other. For example, a person who has received a geas/quest 
spell can also be subjected to a charm person spell. The charmed person 
remains committed to fulfilling the quest, however, and resists any 
order that interferes with that goal. In this case, the geas/quest spell 
doesn't negate charm person, but it does reduce its effectiveness, just 
as nonmagical devotion to a quest would. If a creature is under the 
mental control of two or more creatures, it tends to obey each to the 
best of its ability, and to the extent of the control each effect allows. If 
the controlled creature receives conflicting orders simultaneously, 
the competing controllers must make opposed Charisma checks to 
| REE which one the creature obeys. 
| Spells with Opposite Effects: Spells with opposite effects 
_apply normally, with all bonuses, penalties, or changes accruing in 
the order that they apply. Some spells negate or counter each | 
other. This is a special effect that is noted in a spell’s description. | 


Instantaneous Effects: Two or more spells with instanta- , 


neous durations work cumulatively when they affect the same 
target. For example, when two fireballs strike a same creature, the 


+ 


+ 


target must attempt a saving throw against each fireball and takes | 


{damage from each according to the saving throws’ results. If a 
{creature receives two cure light wounds spells in a single round, 
both work normally. 


|The spells available to characters are listed and described in Chap- ] 


ter 11: Spells. The description of each spell is presented in a stan- 
dard format. Each category of information is explained and 
defined below. 


NAME 


|The first line of every spell description gives the name by which 
ithe spell is generally known. 


SCHOOL (SUBSCHOOL) 


Beneath the spell name is a line giving the school of magic (and , 


the subschool, if appropriate) that the spell belongs to. 

Almost every spell belongs to one of eight schools of magic. Al 
school of magic is a group of related spells that work in similar ways. 
A small number of spells (arcane mark, limited wish, permanency, pres- 
tidigitation, and wish) are universal, belonging to no school. __ 


Abjuration 


Abjurations are protective spells. They create physical or magical | 
barriers, negate magical or physical abilities, harm trespassers, or, 
even banish the subject of the spell to another plane of existence. | 
Representative spells include protection from evil, dispel magic, | 


antimagic field, and banishment. 

If one abjuration spell is active within 10 feet of another for 24 
hours or more, the magical fields interfere with each other and 
create barely visible energy fluctuations. The DC to find such 
spells with the Search skill drops by 4. —EE 

If an abjuration creates a barrier that keeps certain types of crea- 
tures at bay, that barrier cannot be used to push away those crea- 
tures. If you force the barrier against such a creature, you feel a dis- 
cernible pressure against the barrier. If you continue to apply 
pressure, you end the spell. 


Conjuration 

Each conjuration spell belongs to one of five subschools. Con- 
jurations bring manifestations of objects, creatures, or some form 
of energy to you (the summoning subschool), actually transport 
creatures from another plane of existence to your plane (calling), 
heal (healing), transport creatures or objects over great distances 
(teleportation), or create objects or effects on the spot (creation). 
Creatures you conjure usually, but not always, obey your com- 
mands. Representative spells include the various summon monster 
spells, cure light wounds, raise dead, teleport, and wall of iron. 

A creature or object brought into being or transported to your 
location by a conjuration spell cannot appear inside another crea- 
ture or object, nor can it appear floating in an empty space. It must 


+ 


arrive in an open location on a surface capable of supporting it. | 
The creature or object must appear within the spell’s range, but it , 


does not have to remain within the range. 
Calling: A calling spell transports a creature from another | 
plane to the plane you are on. The sae grants the creature e the | 


one-time ability to return to its plane of origin, although the spell] : 


may limit the circumstances under which this is possible. Crea-] 
‘tures who are called actually die when they are killed; they do not 
| disappear and reform, as do those brought by a summoning spell 
| (see below). The duration of a calling spell is instantaneous, which 
means that the called creature can't be dispelled. 


+ 


Creation: A creation spell manipulates matter to create an 
object or creature in the place the spellcaster designates (subject 
to the limits noted above). If the spell has a duration other than 
instantaneous, magic holds the creation together, and when the 
spell ends, the conjured creature or object vanishes without a, 
trace. If the spell has an instantaneous duration, the created object | 

_or creature is merely assembled through magic. It lasts indefi-) 
\nitely and does not depend on magic for its existence. | 
Healing: Certain divine conjurations heal creatures or even) 
_bring them back to life. These include cure spells. } 
Summoning: A summoning spell instantly brings a creature | 
Lor object to a place you designate. When the spell ends or is dis- 
_pelled, a summoned creature is instantly sent back to where it 
came from, but a summoned object is not sent back unless the 
spell description specifically indicates this. A summoned creature 
also goes away if it is killed or if its hit points drop to 0 or lower. It 
‚is not really dead. It takes 24 hours for the creature to reform, 
during which time it cant be summoned again. 
| When the spell that summoned a creature ends and the creature] | 
| disappears, all the spells it has cast expire. A summoned creature | 
cannot use any innate summoning abilities it may have, and it; 
refuses to cast any spells that would cost it XP, or to use any spell- 
like abilities that would cost XP if they were spells. 

Teleportation: A teleportation spell transports one or more 
creatures or objects a great distance. The most powerful of these 
spells can cross planar boundaries. Unlike summoning spells, the 

| transportation is (unless otherwise noted) one-way and not dis- 
| pellable. Teleportation is instantaneous travel through the Astral 
| Plane. Anything that blocks astral travel also blocks teleportation. 


Divination 
| Divination spells enable you to learn secrets long forgotten, to 
_predict the future, to find hidden things, and to foil deceptive 
spells. Representative spells include identify, detect ANA clairau- 
dience/clairvoyance, and true seeing. 
Many divination spells have cone- shaped ar areas s (see p page 175). 
These move with you and extend in the direction you look. The. 
cone defines the area that you can sweep each round. If you study, 


the same area for multiple rounds, you can often gain additional | 


information, as noted in the descriptive text for the spell. 
Scrying: A scrying spell creates an invisible magical sensor that | 
sends you information. Unless noted otherwise, the sensor has the 
same powers of sensory acuity that you possess. This level of acuity 
includes any spells or effects that target you (such as darkvision or see 
invisibility), but not spells or effects that emanate from you (such as 
detect evil). However, the sensor is treated as a separate, independent 
sensory organ of yours, and thus it functions normally even if you 
have been blinded, deafened, or otherwise suffered sensory impair- 
| ment. Any creature with an Intelligence score of 12 or higher can 
L notice the sensor by making a DC 20 Intelligence check. The sensor 
_can be dispelled as if it were an active spell. 
Lead sheeting or magical protection (such as antimagic field, 
mind blank, or nondetection) blocks a scrying spell, and you sense 
that the spell is so blocked. 


Enchantment 
Enchantment spells affect the minds of others, influencing or 
controlling their behavior. Representative spells include charm 
person and suggestion. 
All enchantments are mind- affecting spells. Two. o types of 
_enchantment spells grant you influence over a subject creature. 
Charm: A charm spell changes how the subject views you, typ- 
ically making it see you as a good friend. 
| Compulsion: A compulsion spell forces the subject to act in 
some manner or changes the way her mind works. Some compul- 
sion spells determine the subject’s actions or the effects on the | 
subject, some compulsion spells allow you to determine the sub-_ 


— + 


ject’s actions when you cast the spell, and others give you ongoing | 
control over the subject. | 


—_— + 


Evocation P | 


{Evocation spells manipulate energy or tap an unseen source of 

| power to produce a desired end. In effect, they create something 

Lout of nothing. Many of these spells produce spectacular effects, 
and evocation spells can deal large amounts of damage. Repre- 
sentative spells include magic missile, fireball, and lightning bolt. 


— t 


Ilusion 


Illusion spells deceive the senses or minds of others. They cause] 
people to see things that are not there, not see things that are 
there, hear phantom noises, or remember things that never hap- , 
pened. Representative illusions include silent image, invisibility, and | 
veil. Illusions come in five types: figments, glamers, patterns, 
_phantasms, and shadows. 
| Figment: A figment spell creates a false sensation. Those who , 
\perceive the figment perceive the same thing, not their own. 
‘slightly different versions of the figment. (It is not a personalized 
mental impression.) Figments cannot make something seem to , 
be something else. A figment that includes audible effects cannot. 
duplicate intelligible speech unless the spell description specifi- 
cally says it can. If intelligible speech is possible, it must be in a 
language you can speak. If you try to duplicate a language you 
cannot speak, the image produces gibberish. Likewise, you. 
cannot make a visual copy of something unless you know what it | 
looks like. 


+ 
Because figments and glamers (see below) are unreal, they] 


cannot produce real effects the way that other types of i jlsionsl 
can. They cannot cause damage to objects or creatures, support | 
weight, provide nutrition, or provide protection from the ele- 
ments. Consequently, these spells are useful for confounding or | 
delaying foes, but useless for attacking them directly. For example, 
it is possible to use a silent image spell to create an illusory cottage, 
but the cottage offers no protection from rain. n 

A figment’s AC is equal to 10 + its size modifier. — 

Glamer: A glamer spell changes a subject’s sensory qualities, 
making it look, feel, taste, smell, or sound like something else, or 
even seem to disappear. 

Pattern: Like a figment, a pattern spell creates an image that 
others can see, but a pattern also affects the minds of those who 
see it or are caught in it. All patterns are mind-affecting spells. 

Phantasm: A phantasm spell creates a mental image that usu- 
ally only the caster and the subject (or subjects) of the spell can 
perceive. This impression is totally in the minds of the subjects. It 
is a personalized mental impression. (It’s all in their heads and not 
a fake picture or something that they actually see.) Third parties 
viewing or studying the scene don't notice the phantasm. All 
phantasms are mind-affecting spells. _ 

Shadow: A shadow spell creates something that is partially 
real from extradimensional energy. Such illusions can have real 
effects. Damage dealt by a shadow illusion is real. 

Saving Throws and Illusions (Disbelief): Creatures encoun- 
tering an illusion usually do not receive saving throws to recog- 
nize it as illusory until they study it carefully or interact with it in 
some fashion. For example, if a party encounters a section of illu- | 
sory floor, the character in the lead would receive a saving throw if | 
she stopped and studied the floor or if she probed the floor. — | 

A successful saving throw against an illusion reveals it to be : 
false, but a figment or phantasm remains as a translucent outline. | 
For example, a character making a successful saving throw against | 
a figment of an illusory section of floor knows the “floor” isn’t safe | 

[to walk on and can see what lies below (light permitting), but he | 

Lor she can still note where the figment lies. 

|__A failed saving throw indicates that a character fails to notice 
something is amiss. A character faced with proof that an illusion isn't 


p73 


real needs no saving throw. A character who falls through a section of 
illusory floor into a pit knows something is amiss, as does one who 
spends a few rounds poking at the same illusion. If any viewer success- 
fully disbelieves an illusion and communicates this fact to others, each 
such viewer gains a saving throw with a +4 bonus. | 


Necromancy 
Necromancy spells manipulate the power of death, unlife, and thel | 
life force. Spells involving undead creatures make up a large part of 
„this school. Representative spells include cause fear, animate dead, and | 
finger of death. —_ 

Transmutation 

Transmutation spells change the properties of some creature, thing, 

or condition. Representative spells include enlarge person, reduce 

person, polymorph, and nial See the polymorph subschool, 

¿page 320. —_ 


[DESCRIPTOR] 


| Appearing on the same line as the school and subschool, when appli- | 
Fable, i is a descriptor that further categorizes the spell in some way. | 
Some spells have more than one descriptor. 

The descriptors are acid, air, chaotic, cold, darkness, death, earth, 
electricity, evil, fear, fire, force, good, language-dependent, lawful, 
light, mind-affecting, sonic, and water. 

Most of these descriptors have no game effect by themselves, but 
they govern how the spell interacts with other spells, with special 

| abilities, with unusual creatures, with alignment, and so on. 

| A language-dependent spell uses intelligible language as a medium 
for communication. For instance, a cleric’s command spell fails if the 
target can’t understand what the cleric says, either because it doesn't 
Lunderstand the language he is speaking or because background noise 
„prevents it from hearing what the cleric says. 

| A mind-affecting spell works only against creatures with an Intel- 
ligence score of 1 or higher. 


LEVEL 


The next line of a spell description gives the spells level, a number., 
between 0 and 9 that defines the spell’s relative power. This number is t 


| 
1 


preceded by an abbreviation for the class whose members can cast the | 


spell. The Level entry also indicates whether a spell is a domain spell; 
and, if so, what its domain and its level as a domain spell are. A spell's 
level affects the DC for any save allowed against the effect. 

For example, the Level entry for hold person is “Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/ 
Wiz 3.” That means it is a 2nd-level spell for bards, a 2nd-level spell for 
clerics, and a 3rd-level spell for sorcerers and wizards. The level entry 
for magic vestment is “Clr 3, Strength 3, War 3.” That means it is a 3rd- 

level spell for clerics, the 3rd-level Strength domain spell, and the 
.3rd-level War domain spell. 

___Names of spellcasting classes are abbreviated as follows: bard Brd; 
| cleric Clr; druid Drd; paladin Pal; ranger Rgr; sorcerer Sor; wizard Wiz. 

The domains a spell can be associated with include Air, Animal, 
Chaos, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, Good, Healing, Knowl- 
edge, Law, Luck, Meee Plant, Protection, Strength, Sun, Travel, 


COMPONENTS 


A spell’s components are what you must do or possess to cast it. The 
Components entry in a spell description includes abbreviations that 
_tell you what type of components it has. Specifics for material, focus, 
¿and XP components are given at the end of the descriptive text. Usually 
[aen don't worry about components, but when you can't use a compo- 


nent for some reason or when a material or focus component is expen- 
| sive, then the components are important. 
Verbal (V): A verbal component is a spoken incantation. To pro- 
vide a verbal component, you must be able to speak in a strong voice. | 
A silence spell or a gag spoils the incantation (and thus the spell). A. 


——_ t 


spellcaster who has been deafened has a 20% chance to spoil any spell , 
with a verbal component that he or she tries to cast. | 

Somatic (S): A somatic component is a measured and precise | 
movement of the hand. You must have at least one hand free to pro- | 


_vide a somatic component. 
| Material (M): A material component is one or more physical sub- 
\stances or objects that are annihilated by the spell energies in the 


casting process. Unless a cost is given for a material component, the 
cost is negligible. Don’t bother to keep track of material components, 


with negligible cost. Assume you have all you need as long as you | 
| have your spell component pouch. } 


Focus (F): A focus component is a prop of some sort, Unlike a 
material component, a focus is not consumed when the spell is cast 
and can be reused. As with material components, the cost for a focus | 
is negligible unless a price is given. Assume that focus components of | 
negligible cost are in your spell component pouch. 

Divine Focus (DF): A divine focus component is an item of spiri- 


[tual significance. The divine focus for a cleric or a paladin is a holy, 
symbol appropriate to the character's faith. For an evil cleric, the, 


_ divine focus is an unholy symbol. The default divine focus fora druid 
or a ranger is a sprig of mistletoe or holly. 

If the Components line includes F/DF or M/DF, the arcane ver- | 
sion of the spell has a focus component or a material component (the 
abbreviation before the slash) and the divine version has a divine 
focus component (the abbreviation after the slash), — 

XP Cost (XP): Some powerful spells (such as wish, commune, and 
miracle) entail an experience point cost to you. No spell, not even res- | 


toration, can restore the XP lost in this manner. You cannot spend so | 


much XP that you lose a level, so you cannot cast the spell unless you | 
have enough XP to spare. However, you may, on gaining enough XP | 
to attain a new level, use those XP for casting a spell rather than keep-_ 
ing them and advancing a level. The XP are treated just like a material | 
component—expended when you cast the spell, whether or not the, 
casting succeeds. 


CASTING TIME 


Most spells have a casting time of 1 standard action. Others take 1 
round or more, while a few require only a free action. Chapter 8: 
Combat describes the difference between these types of actions. 

A spell that takes 1 round to cast is a full-round action. It comes 
into effect just before the beginning of your turn in the round after 
you began casting the spell. You then act normally after the spell is 
completed. 

A spell that takes 1 minute to cast comes into effect just before 
your turn 1 minute later (and for each of those 10 rounds, you are cast- 
ing a spell as a full-round action, just as noted above for 1-round cast- 
ing times). These actions must be consecutive and uninterrupted, or 
the spell automatically fails. 

When you begin a spell that takes 1 round or longer to cast, you 
must continue the concentration from the current round to just 
before your turn in the next round (at least). If you lose concentration 
before the casting is complete, you lose the spell. 

A spell with a casting time of 1 free action (such as feather fall) 
doesn’t count against your normal limit of one spell per round. How- 
ever, you may cast such a spell only once per round. Casting a spell 
with a casting time of 1 free action doesn’t provoke attacks of oppor- 
tunity. Bee 

You make all pertinent decisions about a spell (range, target, area, | 
effect, version, and so forth) when the spell comes into effect. For | 
example, when casting a summon monster spell, you need not decide | 
where you want the monster to appear (or indeed, what monster you | 
are summoning) until the spell comes into effect in the round after | | 
you begin casting. 


- + 


RANGE 


LA spell’s range indicates how far from you it can reach, as defined 


in the Range entry of the spell description. A spell’s range is the 


maximum distance from you that the spell’s effect can occur, as 
well as the maximum distance at which you can designate the 
spell’s point of origin. If any portion of the spell’s area would 
extend beyond this range, that area is wasted. Standard ranges 
include the following. | 
Personal: The spell affects only you. 
_ Touch: You must touch a creature or object to affect it. A touch} 
\spell that deals damage can score a critical hit just as a weapon can. | 
LA touch spell threatens a critical hit on a natural roll of 20 and} 
deals double damage on a successful critical hit. Some touch. 
(spells, such as teleport and water walk, allow you to touch multiple | 
| targets. You can touch as many willing targets as you can reach as 
„part of the casting, but all targets of a spell must be touched in 
the same round that you finish casting the spell. 
Close: The spell reaches as far as 25 feet away from you. The 
maximum range increases by 5 feet for every two full caster levels 
(30 feet at 2nd caster level, 35 feet at 4th caster level, and so on). 
, Medium: The spell reaches as far as 100 feet + 10 feet per caster | 
level. EES 
__ Long: The spell reaches as far as 400 feet + 40 feet per caster level] 
Unlimited: The spell reaches anywhere on the same plane of | 
existence. 
Range Expressed in Feet: Some spells have no standard range 
category, just a range expressed in feet. 


AIMING A SPELL 


[You must make some choice about whom the spell is to affect or 
where the effect is to originate, depending on the type of spell. 
|The next entry in a spell description defines the spell’s target (or 
| targets), its effect, or its area, as appropriate. —— 

Target or Targets: Some spells, such as charm person, have a 
\target or targets. You cast these spells on creatures or objects, as 
‚defined by the spell itself. You must be able to see or touch the 
\target, and you must specifically choose that target. For example, 

you can't fire a magic missile spell (which always hits its target) into 
a group of bandits with the instruction to strike “the leader.” To 
strike the leader, you must be able to identify and see the leader. 
(or guess which is the leader and get lucky). However, you do not. 
have to select your target until you finish casting the spell. = | 

If the target of a spell is yourself (the spell description has a line | 
that reads Target: You), you do not receive a saving throw, and spell . 
resistance does not apply. The Saving Throw and Spell Resistance 
lines are omitted from such spells. 

Some spells restrict you to willing targets only. Declaring yourself 
as a willing target is something that can be done at any time (even if 
youre flat-footed or it isn't your turn). Unconscious creatures are 
automatically considered willing, but a character who is conscious 

„but immobile or helpless (such as one who is bound, cowering, grap- 

| pling, paralyzed, pinned, or stunned) is not automatically willing. 

__ Some spells, such as flaming sphere and spiritual weapon, allow 

_you to redirect the effect to new targets or areas after you cast the 
spell. Redirecting a spell is a move action that does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity. 

Effect: Some spells, such as summon monster spells, create or 
summon things rather than affecting things that are already pres- 
ent. You must designate the location where these things are to 
appear, either by seeing it or defining it (for example, “The insect 
plague will appear 20 feet into the area of darkness that the nagas 
are hiding in”). Range determines how far away an effect can 

appear, but if the effect is mobile (a summoned monster, for 
_instance), it can move regardless of the spell’s range. 
Ray: Some effects are rays (for example, ray of enfeeblement). You 
laim a ray as if using a ranged weapon, though typically you make a 
| ranged touch attack rather than a normal ranged attack. As with a 
_ranged weapon, you can fire into the dark or at an invisible creature 
and hope you hit something. You don't have to see the creature | 
you're trying to hit, as you do with a targeted spell. Intervening | 


creatures and obstacles, however, can block your line of sight or, 
provide cover for the creature you're aiming at. | 
Ifa ray spell has a duration, it’s the duration of the effect that the | 

ray causes, not the length of time the ray itself persists. s 

| Ifa ray spell deals damage, you can score a critical hit just as if it 

| were a weapon. A ray spell threatens a critical hit on a natural roll 

Lof 20 and deals double damage on a successful critical hit. 

Spread: Some effects, notably clouds and fogs, spread out from a 

point of origin, which must be a grid intersection. The effect can , 

„extend around corners and into areas that you can't see. Figure dis- 

[tance by actual distance traveled, taking into account turns the | 
spell effect takes. When determining distance for spread effects, 
count around walls, not through them. As with movement, do not 
trace diagonals across corners. You must designate the point of, 
origin for such an effect, but you need not have line of effect (see | 
below) to all portions of the effect. Example: obscuring mist. 

__ Area: Some spells affect an area. Sometimes a spell description 

i specifies a specially defined area, but usually an area falls into one, 
of the categories defined below. 

| Regardless of the shape of the area, you select the point where] 
the spell originates, but otherwise you don't control which crea- , 
tures or objects the spell affects. The point of origin of a spell is. 
always a grid intersection. When determining whether a given 
creature is within the area of a spell, count out the distance from 
the point of origin in squares just as you do when moving a char- 
acter or when determining the range for a ranged attack. The only , 
difference is that instead of counting from the center of one | 


|square to the center of the next, you count from intersection to in- |_ 


tersection. You can count diagonally across a square, but remem- 
ber that every second diagonal counts as 2 squares of distance. If | 
the far edge of a square is within the spell’s area, anything within | 
that square is within the spell’s area. If the spell’s area only touches | 
the near edge of a square, however, anything within that square is | 
unaffected by the spell. 

Burst, Emanation, or Spread: Most spells that affect an area function 
as a burst, an emanation, or a spread. In each case, you select the 
spell’s point of origin and measure its effect from that point. 

A burst spell affects whatever it catches in its area, even includ- 
ing creatures that you can't see. For instance, if you designate a 
four-way intersection of corridors to be the point of origin of a 
dispel magic spell, the spell bursts in all four directions, possibly 
catching creatures that you can't see because they’re around the 
corner from you but not from the point of origin. It can't affect 
creatures with total cover from its point of origin (in other words, 
its effects don’t extend around corners). The default shape for a 
burst effect is a sphere, but some burst spells are specifically de- 
scribed as cone-shaped. A burst’s area defines how far from the 
point of origin the spell’s effect extends. Example: holy smite. 

An emanation spell functions like a burst spell, except that the 
effect continues to radiate from the point of origin for the duration of 
the spell. Most emanations are cones or spheres. Example: detect magic. 

A spread spell spreads out like a burst but can turn corners. You 
select the point of origin, and the spell spreads out a given dis- 
tance in all directions. Figure the area the spell effect fills by tak- 
ing into account any turns the spell effect takes. Example: fireball. 

Cone, Cylinder, Line, or Sphere: Most spells that affect an area have 
a particular shape, such as a cone, cylinder, line, or sphere. — | 

A cone-shaped spell shoots away from you in a quarter-circle in | 
the direction you designate. It starts from any corner of your square | 
and widens out as it goes. Most cones are either bursts or emanations | 

(see above), and thus wont go around corners. Example: cone of cold. | 


When casting a cylinder-shaped spell, you select the spell’s point | 


of origin. This point is the center ofa horizontal circle, and the spell | 
‘shoots down from the circle, filling a cylinder. A cylinder-shaped | 
| spell ignores any obstructions within its area. Example: flame strike. 
|__ Aline-shaped spell shoots away from you ina line in the direction 
you designate. It starts from any corner of your square and extends 


[Zs 


Pa line deste some kinds, 

of attacks [usually magical]: l 

o It affects’ Creatures! or characters) 

ina straight line away, from the spell- 

caster; s square, to any; intersection within) 
range. All squares through, which the line 
__ Passes or touches are ‘affected by the attack. 
The line continues to its full range, usually 
beyond the target intersection and possibly 
affecting more characters or creatures. 


ito the limit of its range or until it strikes a barrier that blocks line 
_of effect. A line-shaped spell affects all creatures in squares that 
| the line passes through or touches. Example: lightning bolt. 


A sphere-shaped spell expands from its point of origin to fill a 
spherical area. Spheres may be bursts, emanations, or spreads. 
Example: globe of invulnerability. z 
Creatures: A spell with this kind of area affects creatures directly. } 
(like a targeted spell), but it affects all creatures in an area of some | 


kind rather than individual creatures you select. The area might be | 


a spherical burst (such as sleep), a cone-shaped burst (such as fear), 
or some other shape. 

Many spells affect “living creatures,” which means all creatures 
other than constructs and undead. The sleep spell, for instance, 
affects only living creatures. If you cast sleep in the midst of gnolls 
and skeletons, the sleep spell ignores the skeletons and affects the 
gnolls. The skeletons do not count against the creatures affected. 

Objects: A spell with this kind of area affects objects within an 


Larea you select (as Creatures, but affecting objects instead). 


+ 


4 


4 


__Other: A spell can have a unique area, as defined in its description. 

(S) Shapeable: If an Area or Effect entry ends with “(S),” you can 
shape the spell. A shaped effect or area can have no dimension 
smaller than 10 feet. Many effects or areas are given as cubes to make 
it easy to model irregular shapes. Three-dimensional volumes are 
most often needed to define aerial or underwater effects and areas. 

Line of Effect: A line of effect is a straight, unblocked path that 
indicates what a spell can affect. A line of effect is canceled by a solid 
barrier. It’s like line of sight for ranged weapons, except that it’s not 
blocked by fog, darkness, and other factors that limit normal sight. 

You must have a clear line of effect to any target that you cast a 
_spell on or to any space in which you wish to create an effect (such 


point of origin of any spell you cast, such as the center of a fireball. 


[point ons a monster). You must have a clear line of effect to the 


LA burst, cone, cylinder, or emanation spell affects only an area, 
‚creatures, or objects to which it has line of effect from its origin (a 


spherical burst’s center point, a cone-shaped burst’s starting point, | 
a cylinder’s circle, or an emanation’s point of origin). 


DURATION 


An otherwise solid barrier with a hole of at least 1 square foot. 
through it does not block a spell’s line of effect. Such an opening | 
means that the 5-foot length of wall containing the hole is no | 
longer considered a barrier for purposes of a spell’s line of effect. | 


\A spells Duration entry tells you how long the magical energy of 
the spell lasts. 
Timed Durations: Many durations are measured in rounds, 


‚minutes, hours, or some other increment. When the time is up,_ 
ithe magic goes away and the spell ends. If a spell’s duration is vari- | 


able (power word stun, for example), the DM rolls it secretly. __ 
Instantaneous: The spell energy comes and goes the instant 
the spell is cast, though the consequences might be long-lasting. 
For example, a cure light wounds spell lasts only an instant, but the | 
healing it bestows never runs out or goes away. 
Permanent: The energy remains as long as the effect does. This 


{means the spell is vulnerable to dispel magic. Example: secret page. . 


Concentration: The spell lasts as long as you concentrate on it., 


¿Concentrating to maintain a spell is a standard action that does 


not provoke attacks of opportunity. Anything that could break 
your concentration when casting a spell can also break your con- , 
centration while you're maintaining one, causing the spell to end. 
You can't cast a spell while concentrating on another one. Some- 
times a spell lasts for a short time after you cease concentrating. 
For example, the spell hypnotic pattern has a duration of concentra- 
tion + 2 rounds. In such a case, the spell keeps going for the given | 


ilength of time after you stop concentrating, but no longer. Other- | 


wise, you must concentrate to maintain the spell, but you can't | 
maintain it for more than a stated duration in any event. If a target | 
moves out of range, the spell reacts as if your concentration had | 
been broken. 

Subjects, Effects, and Areas: If the spell affects creatures. | 
directly (for example, charm person), the result travels with the sub- 
jects for the spell’s duration. If the spell creates an effect, the effect 
lasts for the duration. The effect might move (for example, a sum- 
moned monster might chase your enemies) or remain still. Such 
an effect can be destroyed prior to when its duration ends (for 
example, fog cloud can be dispersed by wind). If the spell affects an 
area, as silence does, then the spell stays with that area for its dura- 
tion. Creatures become subject to the spell when they enter the 
area and are no longer subject to it when they leave. 

Touch Spells and Holding the Charge: In most cases, if you 
don't discharge a touch spell on the round you cast it, you can hold 
the charge (postpone the discharge of the spell) indefinitely. You 
can make touch attacks round after round. If you cast another 
spell, the touch spell dissipates. 

Some touch spells, such as teleport and water walk, allow you to 
touch multiple targets as part of the spell. You can’t hold the 
charge of such a spell; you must touch all targets of the spell in the 
same round that you finish casting the spell. 

Discharge: Occasionally a spells lasts for a set duration or until 
triggered or discharged. For instance, magic mouth waits until trig- 
gered, and the spell ends once the mouth has said its message. 

(D) Dismissible: If the Duration line ends with “(D),” you can 
dismiss the spell at will. You must be within range of the spell’s 
effect and must speak words of dismissal, which are usually a mod- | 
ified form of the spell’s verbal component. If the spell has no verbal , 
component, you can dismiss the effect with a gesture. Dismissing a | 
spell is a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportu- | 


_nity. A spell that depends on concentration is dismissible by its, 


very nature, and dismissing it does not take an action, since all you 4 
have to do to end the spell is to stop concentrating on your turn. | 


SAVING THROW 


Usually a harmful spell allows a target to make a saving throw to 


avoid some or all of the effect. The Saving Throw entry in a spell 


— 


description defines which type of saving throw the spell allows 
and describes how saving throws against the spell work. 
Negates: The spell has no effect on a subject that makes a suc- 
cessful saving throw. z - 
Partial: The spell causes an effect on its subject, such as death. | 
A successful saving throw means that some lesser effect occurs} 
(such as being dealt damage rather than being killed). i 
|__Half: The spell deals damage, and a successful saving throw, 
halves the damage taken (round down). í 
None: No saving throw is allowed. } 
Disbelief: A successful save lets the subject ignore the effect. | 
(object): The spell can be cast on objects, which receive saving 


affected and roll randomly among them. The randomly deter-, 
mined item must make a saving throw against the attack form and | 
take whatever damage the attack deals (see Smashing an Object, | 
page 165). For instance, Tordek is hit by a lightning bolt and gets a. 
natural 1 on his saving throw. The items of his most likely to have 
been affected are his shield, his armor, his waraxe (in his hand), 
land his shortbow (stowed). (He doesn't have magic headgear or a 
magic cloak, so those entries are skipped.) 
If an item is not carried or worn and is not magical, it does not, 
„get a saving throw. It simply is dealt the appropriate damage. 


SPELL RESISTANCE 


t 
t 


‚throws only if they are magical or if they are attended (held, worn, 
grasped, or the like) by a creature resisting the spell, in which case 
the object uses the creature’s saving throw bonus unless its own 
bonus is greater. (This notation does not mean that a spell can be 

_cast only on objects. Some spells of this sort can be cast on crea- 


Spell resistance is a special defensive ability. If your spell is being 
resisted by a creature with spell resistance, you must make a caster , 
level check (1d20 + caster level) at least equal to the creature's spell | 
resistance for the spell to affect that creature. The defender’s spell 


resistance is like an Armor Class against magical attacks. The Dun- 


geon Master’s Guide has more details on spell resistance. Include, 
any adjustments to your caster level (such as from domain granted , 
powers) to this caster level check. 


tures or objects.) A magic item's saving throw bonuses are each | 
Lequal to 2 + one-half the item's caster level. | 
(harmless): The spell is usually beneficial, not harmful, but a; 


targeted creature can attempt a saving throw if it desires. 

Saving Throw Difficulty Class: A saving throw against your 
spell has a DC of 10 + the level of the spell + your bonus for the rel- 
evant ability (Intelligence for a wizard, Charisma for a sorcerer or 
bard, or Wisdom for a cleric, druid, paladin, or ranger). A spell’s 
level can vary depending on your class. For example, fire trap is a 


|2nd-level spell for a druid but a 4th-level spell for a sorcerer or 


+ 
+ 


wizard. Always use the spell level applicable to your class. 
Succeeding on a Saving Throw: A creature that successfully 
saves against a spell that has no obvious physical effects feels a 


hostile force or a tingle, but cannot deduce the exact nature of the 
Lattack. For example, if you secretly cast charm person on a creature 
_and its saving throw succeeds, it knows that someone used magic 
\against it, but it can't tell what you were trying to do. Likewise, if a 


creature’s saving throw succeeds against a targeted spell, such as 
charm person, you sense that the spell has failed. You do not sense 
when creatures succeed on saves against effect and area spells. 

Automatic Failures and Successes: A natural 1 (the d20 comes. 
up 1) on a saving throw is always a failure, and the spell may cause | 
damage to exposed items (see Items Surviving after a Saving Throw, _ 
below). A natural 20 (the d20 comes up 20) is always a success... 

Voluntarily Giving up a Saving Throw: A creature can volun- 
tarily forego a saving throw and willingly accept a spell’s result. 
Even a character with a special resistance to magic (for example, 
an elf’s resistance to sleep effects) can suppress this quality. 


TABLE 10—1: ITEMS AFFECTED BY MAGICAL ATTACKS 


Order’ Item -a 

| Ist Shield 

¿2nd Armor 

| 3rd Magic helmet, hat, or headband 
4th ltem in hand (including weapon, wand, or the like) 
5th Magic cloak 
6th Stowed or sheathed weapon 
7th Magic bracers 
8th Magic clothing 
9th Magic jewelry (including rings) 

10th Anything else = 


1 In order of most likely to least likely to be affected. _ 


DESCRIPTIVE TEXT 


__ Items Surviving after a Saving Throw: Unless the descrip- 
tive text for the spell specifies otherwise, all items carried or worn 
_\by a creature are assumed to survive a magical attack. If a creature 
{rolls a natural 1 on its saving throw against the effect, however, an 
‚exposed item is harmed (if the attack can harm objects). Refer to 


Table 10-1: Items Affected by Magical Attacks. Determine which | 


four objects carried or worn by the creature are most likely to be 


+ 


The Spell Resistance entry and the descriptive text of a spell , 
description tell you whether spell resistance protects creatures, 
from the spell. In many cases, spell resistance applies only when a 
resistant creature is targeted by the spell, not when a resistant crea- 
ture encounters a spell that is already in place. — 

The terms “object” and “harmless” mean the same thing for 
spell resistance as they do for saving throws. A creature with | 


spell resistance must voluntarily lower the resistance (a standard | 


action) in order to be affected by a spell noted as harmless. In 
such a case, you do not need to make the caster level check | 
described above. al 
a 
This portion of a spell description details what the spell does and 
how it works. If one of the previous entries in the description 
included “see text,” this is where the explanation is found. If the 
spell you're reading about is based on another spell (see Spell 
Chains, page 181), you might have to refer to a different spell for 
the “see text” information. 


Wizards, sorcerers, and bards cast arcane spells, which involve the 
direct manipulation of mystic energies. These manipulations 
require natural talent (in the case of sorcerers), long study (in the 
case of wizards), or both (in the case of bards). Compared to divine 
spells, arcane spells are more likely to produce dramatic results, 
such as flight, explosions, or transformations. 


PREPARING WIZARD SPELLS 


Before setting out on an adventure with her companions, Mialee 
pores over her spellbook and prepares two 1st-level spells (one for 
being a 1st-level wizard and an additional one as her 1st-level 
bonus spell for Intelligence 15) and three 0-level spells. (Arcane 
spellcasters often call their 0-level spells “cantrips.”) From the 
spells in her spellbook, she chooses charm person, sleep, detect magic 
(twice), and light. While traveling, she and her party are attacked | 
by gnoll raiders, and she casts her sleep spell. After she and her | 
companions have dispatched the gnolls, she casts detect magic to | 
see whether any of the gnolls’ items are enchanted. (They're not.) | 


|The party then camps for the night in the wilderness. Come morn- | 


ing, Mialee can once again prepare spells from her spellbook. She 
already has charm person, detect magic (once), and light prepared | 


(from the day before. She chooses to abandon her light spell and | 
(then prepare sleep, detect magic, and ghost sound. It takes her a little 
‘over half an hour to prepare these spells because they represent a 


little over half of her daily capacity. 


LG7 


A wizard’ level limits the number of spells she can prepare and 


cast (see Table 3-18: The Wizard, page 55). Her high Intelligence 
score (see Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8) 
might allow her to prepare a few extra spells. She can prepare the 


same spell more than once, but each preparation counts as one | 
spell toward her daily limit. Preparing an arcane spell is an ardu-|_ 


ous mental task. To do so, the wizard must have an Intelligence 
score of at least 10 + the spell’s level. 


|__ Rest: To prepare her daily spells, a wizard must have a clear mind. | 


+ 


+ 


‚To clear her mind, she must first sleep for 8 hours. The wizard does | 
‘not have to slumber for every minute of the time, but she must | 


irefrain from movement, combat, spellcasting, skill use, conversa- 
tion, or any other fairly demanding physical or mental task during 
the rest period. If her rest is interrupted, each interruption adds 1 
hour to the total amount of time she has to rest in order to clear her 
mind, and she must have at least 1 hour of uninterrupted rest imme- 
„diately prior to preparing her spells. If the character does not need 
,to sleep for some reason, she still must have 8 hours of restful calm 
before. preparing any spells. For example, elf wizards need 8 hours of | 
irest to clear their minds, even though they need only 4 hours of| 


i 


[france to refresh their bodies. Thus, an elf wizard could trance for 4 | 


hours and rest for 4 hours, then prepare spells. 

Recent Casting Limit/Rest Interruptions: If a wizard has 
cast spells recently, the drain on her resources reduces her capac- 
ity to prepare new spells. When she prepares spells for the coming 
day, all the spells she has cast within the last 8 hours count against 
her daily limit. If Mialee can normally cast two 1st-level spells per 

| day, but she had to cast magic missile during the night, she can pre- 
|pare only one 1st-level spell the next day. 

|_ Preparation Environment: To prepare any spell, a wizard 
¿must have enough peace, quiet, and comfort to allow for proper 
(concentration. The wizard’s surroundings need not be luxurious, 
but they must be free from overt distractions, such as combat 
raging nearby or other loud noises. Exposure to inclement 
‘weather prevents the necessary concentration, as does any injury 
or failed saving throw the character might experience while 


studying. Wizards also must have access to their spellbooks to. 
study from and sufficient light to read them by. There is one major. 


exception: A wizard can prepare a read magic spell even without a 


spellbook. A great portion of her initial training goes into master- | 


ing this minor but vital feat of magic. 

Spell Preparation Time: After resting, a wizard must study her 
spellbook to prepare any spells that day. If she wants to prepare all 
her spells, the process takes 1 hour. Preparing some smaller por- 
tion of her daily capacity takes a proportionally smaller amount of 
time, but always at least 15 minutes, the minimum time required 
to achieve the proper mental state. 

Spell Selection and Preparation: Until she prepares spells from 
lher spellbook, the only spells a wizard has available to cast are the 
Lones that she already had prepared from the previous day and has not 
_yet used. During the study period, she chooses which spells to pre- 

pare. The act of preparing a spell is actually the first step in casting it. 
A spell is designed in such a way that it has an interruption point 
near its end. This allows a wizard to cast most of the spell ahead of 
time and finish when it’s needed, even if she is under considerable 
pressure. Her spellbook serves as a guide to the mental exercises she 
must perform to create the spell’s effect. Ifa wizard already has spells 
prepared (from the previous day) that she has not cast, she can aban- 
don some or all of them to make room for new spells. 

When preparing spells for the day, a wizard can leave some of 
these spell slots open. Later during that day, she can repeat the 

preparation process as often as she likes, time and circumstances 
Toeri. During these extra sessions of preparation, the wizard 
‘can fill these unused spell slots. She cannot, however, abandon a 
_previously prepared spell to replace it with another one or fill a slot 


+ 


+ 


that is empty because she has cast a spell in the meantime. That sort | 
of preparation requires a mind fresh from rest. Like the first session | 


ARCANE MAGICAL WRITINGS 


¡notation that describes the magical forces involved in the spell. | 


Adding Spells to a Wizard’s Spellbook _ 
| Wizards can add new spells to their spellbooks through several 
| methods. If a wizard has chosen to specialize in a school of magic, 
{she can learn spells only from schools whose spells she can cast. 


of the day, this preparation takes at least 15 minutes, and it takes. 
longer if the wizard prepares more than one-quarter of her spells. | 

Spell Slots: The various character class tables in Chapter 3: | 
Classes show how many spells of each level a character can cast, 


| per day. These openings for daily spells are called spell slots. A 
_spellcaster always has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot 
with a lower-level spell. For example, a 7th-level wizard has at least 


one 4th-level spell slot and two 3rd-level spell slots (see Table 
3-18: The Wizard, page 55). However, the character could choose _ 


‚to prepare three 3rd-level spells instead, filling the 4th-level slot. 
[with a 3rd-level spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high enough abil- | 


ity score to cast spells that would otherwise be his or her due still 
gets the slots but must fill them with spells of lower level. 
Prepared Spell Retention: Once a wizard prepares a spell, it. 
remains in her mind as a nearly cast spell until she uses the pre- 
scribed components to complete and trigger it or until she abandons 


Lit. Upon the casting of a spell, the spell’s energy is expended and 
| purged from the character, leaving her feeling a little tired. Certain , 
Lother events, such as the effects of magic items or special attacks, 
[from monsters, can wipe a prepared spell from a character's mind. 


Death and Prepared Spell Retention: If a spellcaster dies, all 
prepared spells stored in his or her mind are wiped away. Potent. 
magic (such as raise dead, resurrection, or true resurrection) can 
recover the lost energy when it recovers the character. 


To record an arcane spell in written form, a character uses complex | 
4 
The notation constitutes a universal arcane language that wizards | 
have discovered, not invented. The writer uses the same system no | 
matter what her native language or culture. However, each char- | 
acter uses the system in her own way. Another person's magical | 
writing remains incomprehensible to even the most powerful | 
wizard until she takes time to study and decipher it. 

To decipher an arcane magical writing (such as a single spell in 
written form in another's spellbook or on a scroll), a character must 
make a Spellcraft check (DC 20 + the spell’s level). If the skill check 
fails, the character cannot attempt to read that particular spell again 
until the next day. A read magic spell automatically deciphers a magi- 
cal writing without a skill check. Ifthe person who created the mag- 
ical writing is on hand to help the reader, success is also automatic. 

Once a character deciphers a particular magical writing, she does 
not need to decipher it again. Deciphering a magical writing allows 
the reader to identify the spell and gives some idea of its effects (as 
explained in the spell description). Ifthe magical writing was a scroll 
and the reader can cast arcane spells, she can attempt to use the scroll 
(see the information on scrolls in the Dungeon Master’s Guide). 


Wizard Spells and Borrowed Spellbooks 


A wizard can use a borrowed spellbook to prepare a spell she 
already knows and has recorded in her own spellbook, but prepa- 
ration success is not assured. First, the wizard must decipher the 
writing in the book (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Once a 
spell from another spellcaster’s book is deciphered, the reader 
must make a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell’s level) to prepare the 
spell. If the check succeeds, the wizard can prepare the spell. She 
must repeat the check to prepare the spell again, no matter how | 
many times she has prepared it before. If the check fails, she , 
cannot try to prepare the spell from the same source again until | 
the next day. (However, as explained above, she does not need to | 
.repeat a check to decipher the writing.) 


Spells Gained at a New Level: Wizards perform a certain 


amount of spell research between adventures. Each time a charac- 


ter attains a new wizard level, she gains two spells of her choice to 
add to her spellbook. These spells represent the results of her 
research. The two free spells must be of spell levels she can cast. If 


she has chosen to specialize in a school of magic, one of the two | 


free spells must be from her specialty school. 


Spells Copied from Another's Spellbook or a Scroll: A} 


t 


wizard can also add a spell to her book whenever she encounters | 


Lone on a magic scroll or in another wizard’s spellbook. No matter, 


what the spell’s source, the wizard must first decipher the magical | 
writing (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Next, she must | 


_spend a day studying the spell. At the end of the day, she must 
make a Spellcraft check (DC 15 + spell’s level). A wizard who has 
specialized in a school of spells gains a +2 bonus on the Spellcraft 
check if the new spell is from her specialty school. She cannot, 
however, learn any spells from her prohibited schools. 


Ifthe check succeeds, the wizard understands the spell and can 


copy it into her spellbook (see Writing a New Spell into a Spell-| 
ibook, below). The process leaves a spellbook that was copied from | 


unharmed, but a spell successfully copied from a magic scroll dis- 


appears from the parchment. 


If the check fails, the wizard cannot understand or copy the | 


spell. She cannot attempt to learn or copy that spell again until she 
gains another rank in Spellcraft. A spell that was being copied 
from a scroll does not vanish from the scroll. 
In most cases, wizards charge a fee for the privilege of copying 
L spells from their spellbooks. This fee is usually equal to the spell’s 
[level x 50 gp, though many wizards jealously guard their higher- 
[level spells and may charge much more, or even deny access to 
‘them altogether. Wizards friendly to one another often trade 
Laccess to equal-level spells from each other's spellbooks at no cost. 
Independent Research: A wizard also can research a spell 
independently, duplicating an existing spell or creating an 
lentirely new one. The Dungeon Master's Guide has information on 
this topic under Creating New Spells in Chapter 2. — 


Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook 
Once a wizard understands a new spell, she can record it into her, 


spellbook. 
Time: The process takes 24 hours, regardless of the spells leek 


Space in the Spellbook: A spell takes up one page of the spell- | 


book per spell level, so a 2nd-level spell takes two pages, a 5th- 
level spell takes five pages, and so forth. Even a 0-level spell 
(cantrip) takes one page. A spellbook has one hundred pages. 
Materials and Costs: Materials for writing the spell (special 
quills, inks, and other supplies) cost 100 gp per page. 
Note that a wizard does not have to pay these costs in time or 
_gold for the spells she gains for free at each new level. She simply 
adds these to her spellbook as part of her ongoing research. 


Replacing and Copying Spellbooks 
A wizard can use the procedure for learning a spell to reconstruct 
a lost spellbook. If she already has a particular spell prepared, she 
can write it directly into a new book at a cost of 100 gp per page (as 
noted in Writing a New Spell into a Spellbook, above). The process 
wipes the prepared spell from her mind, just as casting it would. If 
she does not have the spell prepared, she can prepare it from a bor- 
rowed spellbook and then write it into a new book. _ 
Duplicating an existing spellbook uses the same procedure as 
_replacing it, but the task is much easier. The time requirement and 
_cost per page are halved. 


Selling a Spellbook 
| Captured spellbooks can be sold for a gp amount equal to one-half the 
_cost of purchasing and inscribing the spells within (that is, one-half of 
100 gp per page of spells). A spellbook entirely filled with spells (that 


+ 


is, with one hundred pages of spells inscribed in it) is worth 5,000 gp. | 


SORCERERS AND BARDS 


Sorcerers and bards cast arcane spells, but they do not have spell- | 
books and do not prepare their spells. A sorcerer’s or bard’s class | 
level limits the number of spells he can cast (see these class 
descriptions in Chapter 3: Classes). His high Charisma score (see 
|Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells, page 8) might allow 
him to cast a few extra spells. A member of either class must have 
a Charisma score of at least 10 + a spell’s level to cast the spell. 
Daily Readying of Spells: Each day, sorcerers and bards must, 
„focus their minds on the task of casting their spells. A sorcerer or} 
\bard needs 8 hours of rest (just like a wizard), after which he] 
spends 15 minutes concentrating. (A bard must sing, recite, or 
play an instrument of some kind while concentrating.) During 
this period, the sorcerer or bard readies his mind to cast his daily , 
allotment of spells. Without such a period to refresh himself, the | 
character does not regain the spell slots he used up the day before. 
___ For example, at 7th level, Gimble the bard can cast one 3rd-level 
ispell (a bonus spell due to his 16 Charisma). If he casts a 3rd-level , 
\spell, he can't use his 3rd-level spell slot again until the next day—_ 
_after he readies his spells for the day. 

Recent Casting Limit: As with wizards, any spells cast within , 
the last 8 hours count against the sorcerer’s or bard’s daily limit. 

Adding Spells to a Sorcerer's or Bard’s Repertoire: A sorcerer 
or bard gains spells each time he attains a new level in his class and 
never gains spells any other way. When your sorcerer or bard gains 
a new level, consult Table 3—5: Bard Spells Known or Table 3—17: , 
Sorcerer Spells Known to learn how many spells from the appro-| 

priate spell list in Chapter 11: Spells he now knows. With the DM's |_ 
permission, sorcerers and bards can also select the spells they gain | 
from new and unusual spells that they have gained some under | 
standing of (see Spells in the sorcerer description, page 54). 

For instance, when Hennet the sorcerer becomes 2nd level, he 
gains an additional 0-level spell. He can pick that spell from the 0- 
level spells on the sorcerer and wizard spell list, or he might have 
learned an unusual spell from an arcane scroll or spellbook. — 


Clerics, druids, experienced paladins, and experienced rangers 
can cast divine spells. Unlike arcane spells, divine spells draw 
power from a divine source. Clerics gain spell power from deities 
or from divine forces. The divine force of nature powers druid and 
ranger spells. The divine forces of law and good power paladin 
spells. Divine spells tend to focus on healing and protection and 
are less flashy, destructive, and disruptive than arcane spells. 


PREPARING DIVINE SPELLS 


Divine spellcasters prepare their spells in largely the same manner 
as wizards do, but with a few differences. The relevant ability for 
divine spells is Wisdom. To prepare a divine spell, a character must 
have a Wisdom score of 10 + the spell’s level. For example, a cleric 
or druid must haye a Wisdom score of at least 10 to prepare a 0-level 
spell and a Wisdom score of 11 to prepare a 1st-level spell. (Divine 
spellcasters often call their 0-level spells “orisons.”) Likewise, bonus 
spells are based on Wisdom. 

Time of Day: A divine spellcaster chooses and prepares spells 
ahead of time, just as a wizard does. However, a divine spellcaster_ 
does not require a period of rest to prepare spells. Instead, the char- , 
acter chooses a particular part of the day to pray and receive spells. | 
The time is usually associated with some daily event. Dawn, dusk, 

noon, and midnight are common choices. Some deities set the time | 
or impose other special conditions for granting spells to their cler-|_ 
ics. If some event prevents a character from praying at the proper | 
‘time, he must do so as soon as possible. If the character does not | 
| stop to pray for spells at the first opportunity, he must wait until the 
| next day to prepare spells. 
Spell Selection and Preparation: A divine spellcaster selects and 


prepares spells ahead of time through prayer and meditation at a par- 


ticular time of day. The time required to prepare spells is the same as it 
is for a wizard (1 hour), as is the requirement for a relatively peaceful 
environment. A divine spellcaster does not have to prepare all his 


spells at once. He can leave some of his spell slots open in order to fill | 


them later, just as a wizard can. However, the character's mind is con- } 


sidered fresh only during his or her first daily spell preparation, so al 4 
| divine spellcaster cannot filla slot that is empty because he or she has | 


[cast a spell or abandoned a previously prepared spell. 


Divine spellcasters do not require spellbooks. However, such a| 
icharacter’s spell selection is limited to the spells on the list for his | 


Lor her class (see Chapter 11: Spells). Clerics, druids, paladins, and 
‚rangers have separate spell lists. A cleric also has access to two 
domains determined during his character creation. Each domain 
gives him access to a domain spell at each spell level from 1st to 
9th, as well as a special granted power. With access to two domain 
„spells at each spell level—one from each of his two domains—a 


cleric must prepare, as an extra domain spell, one or the other each i 


day for each level of spell he can cast. (The extra domain spell is the 


1“+1” that appears as part of the cleric’s Spells per Day figure on Table | 
3-6: The Cleric, page 31.) Ifa domain spell is not on the cleric spell | 


list, it can be prepared only in a domain spell slot. 

Spell Slots: The character class tables in Chapter 3: Classes 
show how many spells of each level a character can cast per day. 
These openings for daily spells are called spell slots. A spellcaster 
always has the option to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower- 

evel spell. For example, a 7th-level cleric has at least one 4th-level 
{spell slot and two 3rd-level spell slots. However, he could choose to 
| prepare three 3rd-level spells instead, filling the 4th-level slot with 
| a lower-level spell. Similarly, he could fill his 4th-level domain spell 
¿slot with a lower-level domain spell. A spellcaster who lacks a high 
lenough ability score to cast spells that would otherwise be his or 
her due still gets the slots but must fill them with spells of lower 
(level. For example, a 9th-level cleric who has a Wisdom score of 
‘only 14 cannot cast a 5th-level spell but can prepare an extra lower- 
level spell in its place and store it in the Sth-level spell slot. 

Recent Casting Limit: As with arcane spells, at the time of. 


preparation any spells cast within the previous 8 hours count, 


against the number of spells that can be prepared. 


Spontaneous Casting of Cure and Inflict Spells: A good cleric | 


(ora cleric ofa good deity) can spontaneously cast a cure spell in place 
of a prepared spell of the same level or higher, but not in place of a 
domain spell. An evil cleric (or a cleric of an evil deity) can sponta- 
neously cast an inflict spell in place of a prepared spell (one that is not 
a domain spell) of the same level or higher. Each neutral cleric of a 
neutral deity either spontaneously casts cure spells like a good cleric 
or inflict spells like an evil one, depending on which option the 

„player chooses when creating the character. The divine energy of the 

| spell that the cure or inflict spell substitutes for is converted into the 

cure or inflict spell as if that spell had been prepared all along. 

___ Spontaneous Casting of Summon Nature's Ally Spells: A druid 
can spontaneously cast a summon nature's ally spell in place of a pre- 
pared spell of the same level or higher. The divine energy of the 
spell that the summon nature's ally spell substitutes for is converted 
into the summon spell as if that spell had been prepared all along. 


DIVINE MAGICAL WRITINGS 


Divine spells can be written down and deciphered just as arcane 
spells can (see Arcane Magical Writings, above). Any character 
with the Spellcraft skill can attempt to decipher the divine magi- 
_cal writing and identify it. However, only characters who have the 
spell in question (in its divine form) on their class spell list can 
cast a divine spell from a scroll. 


JEW DIVINE SPELLS 


Divine spellcasters most frequently gain new spells in one of the | 


following two ways. 


—t 


+ 


(see Arcane Magical Writings, above). 


Spells Gained at a New Level: Characters who can cast divine. 
spells undertake a certain amount of study between adventures. | 
Each time such a character receives a new level of divine spells, he | 
or she learns new spells from that level automatically. 


~ + 


|_ Independent Research: A divine spellcaster also can research a 
spell independently, much as an arcane spellcaster can. (The Dun- 
\geon Master's Guide has information on this topic under Creating 


New Spells in Chapter 2.) Only the creator of such a spell can pre- 
pare and cast it, unless he decides to share it with others. Some such _ 


„creators share their research with their churches, but others do not. | 
|The character can create a magic scroll (provided that he or she has | 


the Scribe Scroll feat) or write a special text similar to a spellbook to 
contain spells he or she has independently researched. Other divine 
spellcasters who find the spell in written form can learn to cast it, , 
provided they are of sufficient level to do so and are of the same | 
class as the creator. The process requires deciphering the writing 


| 


+ 


Medusas, dryads, harpies, and other magical creatures can create ; 
magical effects without being spellcasters. Characters using magic | 
wands, rods, and other enchanted items, as well as certain class fea- | 
tures, can also create magical effects. These effects come in two 
types: spell-like and supernatural. Additionally, members of certain 
classes and certain creatures can use special abilities that aren't 
magical. These abilities are called extraordinary or natural. 

Spell-Like Abilities: A dryad’s charm person effect and the, 
greater teleport ability of many devils are spell-like abilities. Usually, | } 
a spell-like ability works just like the spell of that name. A few | 
spell-like abilities are unique; these are explained in the text where | 
they are described. — — 

A spell-like ability has no verbal, somatic, or material compo- | 
nent, nor does it require a focus or have an XP cost. The user acti- 
vates it mentally. Armor never affects a spell-like ability’s use, even 
if the ability resembles an arcane spell with a somatic component. 
A spell-like ability has a casting time of 1 standard action unless 
noted otherwise in the ability or spell description. In all other 
ways, a spell-like ability functions just like a spell. 

Spell-like abilities are subject to spell resistance and to being dis- 
pelled by dispel magic. They do not function in areas where magic is 
suppressed or negated, such as an antimagic field. Spell-like abilities 
cannot be used to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled. 

Some creatures are actually sorcerers of a sort. They cast arcane 
spells as sorcerers do, using components when required. In fact, 
an individual creature (such as some dragons) could have some 
spell-like abilities and also cast other spells as a sorcerer. 

Supernatural Abilities: A dragon's fiery breath, a medusa’s pet- 
rifying gaze, a spectre’s energy drain, and a cleric’s use of positive or 
negative energy to turn or rebuke undead are supernatural abilities. 
These abilities cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and 
they generally do not provoke attacks of opportunity. Supernatural 
abilities are not subject to spell resistance, counterspells, or to being 
dispelled by dispel magic, and do not function in areas where magic 
is suppressed or negated (such as an antimagic field). 

Extraordinary Abilities: A rogue's evasion ability and a troll’s 
ability to regenerate are extraordinary abilities. These abilities | 
cannot be disrupted in combat, as spells can, and they generally do | 
not provoke attacks of opportunity. Effects or areas that negate or | 
disrupt magic have no effect on extraordinary abilities. They are | 


not subject to dispelling, and they function normally inan] 


antimagic field. Indeed, extraordinary abilities do not qualify as] 
magical, though they may break the laws of physics. 
Natural Abilities: This category includes abilities a creature 


4 


lhas because of its physical nature, such as a bird’s ability to fly. Nat- 
y y. 
ural abilities are those not otherwise designated as extraordinary, 


supernatural, or spell-like. 


’ bya 
ages alain: EAA 


ae eE 
ý / uli 


Wer k 


Can 


a Thine 
i 7 


A Wipe... AR 


Tad. 
Zain 


his chapter begins with the spell lists of the spellcasting 

classes and the list of cleric domains and the spells associ- 

ated with each domain. An or "appearing at the end of a 

spell’s name in the spell lists denotes aspell with a material or 

focus component, respectively, that is not normally included 

in a spell component pouch. An * denotes a spell with an XP 
component paid by the caster. $ 

The remainder of the chapter contains spell descriptions in 
alphabetical order by spell name. 

Spell Chains: Some spells reference other spells that they are 
based upon. (for instance, cùre light wounds is the spell upon 
which all other cure spells are based, and lesser;planar ally is the 
spell upon which planar ally and greater planar ally are based.) 
Only information about a spell elsewhere in the spell chain that is 
different from the base spell is covered in the spell being 
deseribed. Spell description entries and descriptive text that are 
the saimé as the base spell are not repeated. 

} me: Order of Presentation: In the spell lists and the spell descrip- 

tions that follow them, the spells are presented in alphabetical 
order by name except for those belonging to certain spell chains. 
When a spell’s fame begins with “lesser,” “greater,” or “mass,” the 
spell déscription is alphabetized under the second word of the 
y spell name instead. For instance, the spell mass suggestion is 


i 
qa entered in the lists as “Suggestion, Mass,” and its description can 
bs be found immediately following the description for suggestion. 
Le Hit Dice: The term “Hit Dice” is used synonymously with 
F ei “character levels” for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of 
sate creatures. Creatures with Hit Dice only from their race, not from 
Ea classes, have character levels equal to their Hit Dice. 


which is defined as the caster’s class level for the purpose of cast- 


Hew. ol pine 


Ai sa 


iy 
2 eee 7 Pe ` 
A (ss HE EN, oe FS onn — 
SA i re Aigo Bee ee es 


ay i A fome sf this nature is usuall 
‘ Te ; manifesting kelf, more often than nol, ia a protective a , 


=a or magical frap. 


eT wacicall — 


r Ana BARDESPELTS 


O-LEVEE BARD SPELLS CCANTRIPS) 


Castet Level: A spell’s power often depends on caster level, 


as well asia vast archiye ot archaic hwmledces 


fayamy p 4q- snr 


A 


ing a particular spell. A creature with no classes has a caster 
level equal to its Hit Diceyunless otherwise specified. The 
word “level” in the spell lists that follow always refers to 
caster level. 

Spell Effects and Conditions: If a spell causes its sub- 
ject or subjects to be affected by one or more conditions 
(such as blinded, incorporeal, invisible, or stunned), refer 
to the glossary for details-of how that condition affects the 
subject, Chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide has more 
information on the various conditions. 

Creatures and Characters: The words “creature” and 
“character” are used synonymously in the spell descrip- 
tions. 


Dancing Lights: Creates torches or other lights. 

Daze: Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses next 
action: 

Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items 
within 60 ft. 

Flare: Dazzles one:creature (—1 on attack rolls). 

Ghost Sound: Figment sounds. 

Know Direction: You discern north. 

Light: Object shines like a torch. 

Lullaby: Makes subject drowsy; —5 on Spot and Listen 
checks, -2 on Will saves against sleep. 

Mage Hand: 5-pound telekinesis. 

Mending: Makes minor repairs on an object. 


Message: Whispered conversation at distance 
Open/Close: Opens or closes small or light things. _ 
Prestidigitation: Performs minor tricks. 
Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. 


Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws. | 
Summon Instrument: Summons one instrument of the caster’s | 


choice. 


t t 
1ST-LEVEL BARD SPELLS | 


Alarm: Wards an area for 2 hours/level. 
(Animate Rope: Makes a rope move at your command. 
| Cause Fear: One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds. 
_Charm Person: Makes one person your friend. 
Comprehend Languages: You understand all spoken and writ- 
ten languages. 
Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). 
Detect Secret Doors: Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 


¿Disguise Self: Changes your appearance. t 


| Erase: Mundane or magical writing vanishes. 
\Expeditious Retreat: Your speed increases by 30 ft. 
Feather Fall: Objects or creatures fall slowly. 

Grease: Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery. 
Hypnotism: Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures. 
Identify ™: Determines properties of magic item. 
Lesser Confusion: One creature is confused for 1 round. 
Magic Mouth™: Speaks once when triggered. 

.Nystul’s Magic Aura: Alters object's magic aura. 
[Obscure Object: Masks object against scrying. 
eee Fear: Suppresses fear or gives +4 on saves against fear for 
| one subject + one per four levels. 
Silent Image: Creates minor illusion of your r design. 
| Sleep: Puts 4 HD of creatures into magical slumber. 
‘Summon Monster I: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
\Tasha’s Hideous Laughter: Subject loses actions for 1 round/ 
__ level. 

Undetectable Alignment: Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
Unseen Servant: Invisible force obeys your commands. — 
Ventriloquism: Throws voice for 1 min./level. 


+ 


— + 


2ND-LEVEL BARD SPELLS cn T 
Alter Self: Assume form of a similar creature. | 


Animal Messenger: Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
Animal Trance: Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals. 
Blindness/Deafness: Makes subject blind or deaf. 

Blur: Attacks miss subject 20% of the time. 

Calm Emotions: Calms creatures, negating emotion effects. 

Cat’s Grace: Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level. 

_Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10). 

\Darkness: 20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow. 

{Daze Monster: Living creature of 6 HD or less loses next action. 

Delay Poison: Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/ 
level. : 

Detect Thoughts: Allows “listening” to surface thoughts. 

Eagle’s Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level. 

Enthrall: Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level. 

Fox’s Cunning: Subject gains +4 to Int for 1 min./level. 

Glitterdust: Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures. 

Heroism: Gives +2 on attack rolls, saves, skill checks. 

Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level. 
_Hypnotic Pattern: Fascinates (2d4 + level) HD of creatures. 
Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 1 min./level or until it attacks. 

ocate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
[Minor Image: As silent image, plus some sound. 
| Mirror Image: Creates decoy duplicates of you (1d4 +1 per three 
levels, max 8). 
Misdirection: Misleads divinations for one creature or object. 


— - + 


+ 


Pyrotechnics: Turns fire into blinding light or choking smoke. 
Rage: Gives +2 to Str and Con, +1 on Will saves, —2 to AC. 
Scare: Panics creatures of less than 6 HD. 


+ 


+ 


Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 4 


| Silence: Negates sound in 15-ft. radius. 
{Sound Burst: Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them. 
|Suggestion: Compels subject to follow stated course of action. 
Summon Monster II: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
Summon Swarm: Summons swarm of bats, rats, or spiders. 
Tongues: Speak any language. 
| Whispering Wind: Sends a short message 1 mile/level,_ 


3RD-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 


Blink: You randomly vanish and reappear for 1 round/level. 
Charm Monster: Makes monster believe it is your ally. — 
Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: Hear or see at a distance for 1 
__min./level. 
|Confusion: Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level. 


\Crushing Despair: Subjects take —2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, 


saves, and checks. 
Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 
Daylight: 60-ft. radius of bright light. 
Deep Slumber: Puts 10 HD of creatures to sleep. 
Dispel Magic: Cancels magical spells and effects. _ 
Displacement: Attacks miss subject 50%. _— 
Fear: Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level. 
Gaseous Form: Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly. 
|Geas, Lesser: Commands subject of 7 HD or less. 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


+ 


$ 
Glibness: You gain +30 bonus on Bluff checks, and your lies can } 


escape magical discernment. 


Good Hope: Subjects gain +2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, sa saves, | J 


and checks. 

Haste: One creature/ level moves faster, +1 on attack rolls, AC, and] 
Reflex saves. 

Illusory Script ™: Only intended reader can decipher. 

Invisibility Sphere: Makes everyone within 10 ft. invisible. 

Leomund’s Tiny Hut: Creates shelter for ten creatures. 

Major Image: As silent image, plus sound, smell and thermal 
effects. : = 

Phantom Steed: Magic horse appears for 1 hour/level. 

Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse. 

Scrying": Spies on subject from a distance. 

Sculpt Sound: Creates new sounds or changes existing ones. 

Secret Page: Changes one page to hide its real content. 

See Invisibility: Reveals invisible creatures or objects. 

Sepia Snake Sigil™: Creates text symbol that immobilizes reader. 

Slow: One subject/level takes only one action/round, —2 to AC 
and attack rolls. 

Speak with Animals: You can communicate with animals. 

Summon Monster III: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for 
you. 


4TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 


Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, alter- 
ations, curses, and petrification. 

Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20). 

Detect Scrying: Alerts you of magical eavesdropping. 

Dimension Door: Teleports you short distance. 

Dominate Person: Controls humanoid telepathically. E 

Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally despite imped-| 
iments. 


Hallucinatory Terrain: Makes one type of terrain. appeat Te] 4 


another (field into forest, or the like). 
Hold Monster: As hold person, but any creature. 
| Invisibility, Greater: As invisibility, but subject can attack and 
_ stay invisible. 


+ 


+ 


| 
Í 


+ 


Legend Lore M?: Lets you learn tales about a person, place, or 
thing. 
Leomund’s Secure Shelter: Creates sturdy cottage, = 
Locate Creature: Indicates direction to familiar creature. 
Modify Memory: Changes 5 minutes of subject’s memories. | 
Neutralize Poison: Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies | 
venom in or on subject. 
| Rainbow Pattern: Lights fascinate 24 HD of creatures. 
[Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away. } 
Shadow Conjuration: Mimics conjuring below 4th level, but) 
only 20% real. 
| Shout: Deafens all within cone and deals 5dé sonic damage. 
Speak with Plants: You can talk to normal plants and plant crea- 
tures. 
Summon Monster IV: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
Zone of Silence: Keeps canna from overhearing conver- 
sations. 


+ 


+ 


5TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS | 


| Cure Light Wounds, Mass: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level for many} 
creatures. 
Dispel Magic, Greater: As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
Dream: Sends message to anyone sleeping. 
False Vision™: Fools scrying with an illusion. 
Heroism, Greater: Gives +4 bonus on attack rolls, saves, skill 
checks; immunity to fear; temporary hp. 
{Mind Fog: Subjects in fog get —10 to Wis and Will checks. 
| Mirage Arcana: As hallucinatory terrain, plus structures. 
| Mislead: Turns you invisible and creates illusory double. 
Nightmare: Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue. 
Persistent Image: As major image, but no concentration required. 
| Seeming: Changes appearance of one person per two levels. 
Shadow Evocation: Mimics evocation of lower than 5th level, 
but only 20% real. 
Shadow Walk: Step into shadow to travel rapidly. 
Song of Discord: Forces targets to attack each other. 
Suggestion, Mass: As suggestion, plus one subject/level. 
Summon Monster V: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you... 


6TH-LEVEL BARD SPELLS 


Analyze Dweomer *: Reveals magical aspects of subject. 
Animate Objects: Objects attack your foes. 
Cat’s Grace, Mass: As cat's grace, affects one subject/level. 
Charm Monster, Mass: As charm monster, but all within 30 ft. 
Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. 
Eagles Splendor, Mass: As eagle’s splendor, affects one 
subject/level. 
| Eyebite: Target becomes panicked, sickened, and comatose. 
Find the Path: Shows most direct way to a location. 
_Fox’s Cunning, Mass: As fox’s cunning, affects one subject/level. 
Geas/Quest: As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
Heroes’ Feast: Food for one creature/level cures and grants 
combat bonuses. 
Otto's Irresistible Dance: Forces subject to dance. 
Permanent Image: Includes sight, sound, and smell. 
Programmed Image™: As major image, plus triggered by event. 
Project Image: Illusory double can talk and cast spells. 
Scrying, Greater: As scrying, but faster and longer. 
Shout, Greater: Devastating yell deals 10d6 sonic damage; stuns 
| _ creatures, damages objects. 
{Summon Monster VI: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
_\Sympathetic Vibration: Deals 2d10 damage/round to freestand- 
ing structure. 
Veil: Changes appearance of group of creatures. 


-— + 


— + 


+ 


O-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS (ORISONS) 


{Create Water: Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 

| Cure Minor Wounds: Cures 1 point of damage. 

Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft. 
Detect Poison: Detects poison in one creature or object. 
Guidance: +1 on one attack roll, saving throw, or skill check. 

Inflict Minor Wounds: Touch attack, 1 point of damage. 

| Light: Object shines like a torch. 

Mending: Makes minor repairs on an object. 

Purify Food and Drink: Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water, 
Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws.__ 
Virtue: Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 


IST-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 


\ Bane: Enemies take —1 on attack rolls and saves against fear. 
Bless: Allies gain +1 on attack rolls and saves against fear. 
Bless Water ™: Makes holy water. 
Cause Fear: One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds. 
Command: One subject obeys selected command for 1 round. 
Comprehend Languages: You understand all spoken and writ- 
ten languages. 
Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/ level (max +5). 
Curse Water ™: Makes unholy water. 


- 
| Deathwatch: Reveals how near death subjects wi within 30 ft. are. ah: 


Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Reveals creatures, spells, or 
objects of selected alignment. 
Detect Undead: Reveals undead within 60 ft. 


$ 


+ 


1 


= —— 


Divine Favor: You gain +1 per three levels on attack and cancel 


rolls. 

Doom: One subject takes —2 on attack rolls, damage rolls, saves, 
and checks. Se 
Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ- 

ments. —- 
Entropic Shield: Ranged attacks against you have 20% miss 
chance. —— —_ 
Hide from Undead: Undead can't perceive one subject/level. 
Inflict Light Wounds: Touch deals 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). 
Magic Stone: Three stones gain +1 on attack, deal 1d6 +1 damage. 
Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you. _ 
Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: +2 to AC and saves, 
counter mind control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
Remove Fear: Suppresses fear or gives +4 on saves against fear for 
one subject + one per four levels. 
Sanctuary: Opponents can't attack you, and you can't attack. 
Shield of Faith: Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus. 
Summon Monster I: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 


2ND-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 

Aid: +1 on attack rolls and saves against fear, id8 temporary hp 
+1/level (max +10). 

Align Weapon: Weapon becomes good, evil, lawful, or chaotic. 
Augury ™*; Learns whether an action will be good or bad. 
Bear’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level._ 
Bull's Strength: Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. 
Calm Emotions: Calms creatures, negating emotion effects. 


weaker. 
Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10). 
| Darkness: 20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow. 
| Death Knell: Kills dying creature; you gain 1d8 temporary hp, +2 
to Str, and +1 level. 


t 


+ 


| 
l 


_Consecrate M: Fills area with positive energy, making undead 


4 
: 


Delay Poison: Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level. 


Desecrate ™: Fills area with negative energy, making undead 
stronger. 
Eagle's Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./level. 
Enthrall: Captivates all within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level. 
Find Traps: Notice traps as a rogue does. 
_Gentle Repose: Preserves one corpse. 
Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level. 


\Inflict Moderate Wounds: Touch attack, 2d8 damage +1/level } 


(max +10). 
{Make Whole: Repairs an object. 
Owl's Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level. 
_Remove Paralysis: Frees one or more creatures from paralysis or 
slow effect. - 
Resist Energy: Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack 
from specified energy type. 
Restoration, Lesser: Dispels magical ability penalty or repairs 
1d4 ability damage. 
Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures. 
{Shield Other": You take half of subject's damage. 
Silence: Negates sound in 15-ft. radius. 


+ 


[ 


+ 


+ 


Sound Burst: Deals 1d8 sonic damage to subjects; may stun them. 


Spiritual Weapon: Magic weapon attacks on its own. 

Status: Monitors condition, position of allies. 

Summon Monster II: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
Undetectable Alignment: Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
Zone of Truth: Subjects within range cannot lie. 


3RD-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 

[Animate Dead™: Creates undead skeletons and zombies. 
|l checks; or 50% chance of losing DAD actioni e 

_Blindness/Deafness: Makes subject blinded or deafened. 
Contagion: Infects subject with chosen disease. 

Continual Flame ™: Makes a permanent, heatless torch. 

Create Food and Water: Feeds three humans (or one 

horse)/level. — 

Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 

Daylight: 60-ft. radius of bright light. 

Deeper Darkness: Object sheds supernatural shadow in n 60-ft., 

radius. 

Dispel Magic: Cancels spells and magical effects. 

Glyph of Warding™: Inscription harms those who pass it. 

Helping Hand: Ghostly hand leads subject to you. 

Inflict Serious Wounds: Touch attack, 3d8 damage +1/level 

(max +15). 

Invisibility Purge: Dispels invisibility within 5 ft./level. 
Locate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or type). 
{Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: As protection 

___ spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 
¿Magic Vestment: Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per 
four levels. > 
Meld into Stone: You and your gear merge with stone. 
Obscure Object: Masks object against scrying. 
Prayer: Allies +1 bonus on most rolls, enemies —1 penalty. 
Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 points/level of damage from 
one kind of energy. 
Remove Blindness/Deafness: Cures normal or magical condi- 
tions. 
_Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse. 
_Remove Disease: Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
sas Light: Ray deals 1d8/two levels damage, more against 


undead. __ 
| Speak with Dead: Corpse answers one question/two levels. 
_Stone Shape: Sculpts stone into any shape. 


+ 


-4 


4 


Summon Monster III: Calls extraplanar creature to fight forl 


you._ 


4TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 


Air Walk: Subject treads_on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree 


Slay Living: Touch attack kills subject. 


Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater. E 
Water Walk: Subject treads on water as if solid. | 
Wind Wall: Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 


— + 


angle). 
Control Water: Raises or lowers bodies of water. 
Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20). 
Death Ward: Grants immunity to death spells and negative. 
energy effects. | 
Dimensional Anchor: Bars extradimensional movement. _ 
Discern Lies: Reveals deliberate falsehoods. i 
Dismissal: Forces a creature to return to native plane. 
Divination M; Provides useful advice for specific proposed | 
actions. 
Divine Power: You gain attack bonus, +6 to Str, and 1 hp/level. 


+ 


| Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally despite imped- , 


| iments. 
¿Giant Vermin: Turns centipedes, scorpions, or spiders into giant. 
vermin. 
Imbue with Spell Ability: Transfer spells to subject. 
Inflict Critical Wounds: Touch attack, 4d8 damage +1/ level | 
(max +20). 
Magic Weapon, Greater: +1 bonus/four levels (max +5). 
Neutralize Poison: Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies 
venom in or on subject. ——= 
(Planar Ally, Lesser*: Exchange services with a6 HD exraplanay 
creature. 
Poison: Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min. 
Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away. | J 
Restoration ™: Restores level and ability score drains. 
Sending: Delivers short message anywhere, instantly. 
Spell Immunity: Subject is immune to one spell per four levels. | 
Summon Monster IV: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
Tongues: Speak any language. 


+ 


-—_—+4 


STH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 


Atonement‘ *: Removes burden of misdeeds from subject. 
Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, alter- 
ations, curses, and petrification. 
Command, Greater: As command, but affects one subject/level. 
Commune”: Deity answers one yes-or-no question/level. 
Cure Light Wounds, Mass: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level for many 
creatures. 
Dispel Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: +4 bonus against attacks. 
Disrupting Weapon: Melee weapon destroys undead. 
Flame Strike: Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage). 
Hallow™: Designates location as holy. 
Inflict Light Wounds, Mass: Deals 1d8 damage +1/level to many 
creatures. 
Insect Plague: Locust swarms attack creatures. 
Mark of Justice: Designates action that will trigger curse on 
subject. 
Plane Shift: As many as eight subjects travel to another plane. 
Raise Dead ™: Restores life to subject who died as long as one 
day/level ago. | 
Righteous Might: Your size increases, and you gain combat | 
bonuses. | 
Scrying": Spies on subject from a distance. 
Spell Resistance: Subject gains SR 12 + level. 
Summon Monster V: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. | 
Symbol of Pain ™: Triggered rune wracks nearby creatures with 
pain. 


{Symbol of Sleep ™: Triggered rune puts nearby creatures into 


catatonic slumber. 


True Seeing™: Lets you see all things as they really are. 
Unhallow™: Designates location as unholy. __ = 
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 


6TH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
Animate Objects: Objects attack your foes. 
_Antilife Shell: 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures. 
| Banishment: Banishes 2 HD/level of extraplanar creatures. 
| Bears Endurance, Mass: As bear's endurance, affects one sub-) 
ject/level. | 
Blade Barrier: Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage. 
_Bull’s Strength, Mass: As bull's strength, affects one subject/level.. 
_Create Undead: Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs. 
Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. 
Dispel Magic, Greater: As dispel magic, but up to +20 on check. 
_Eagle’s Splendor, Mass: As eagle's splendor, affects one 
,_ subject/level. { 
| Find the Path: Shows most direct way to a location. x 
Forbiddance™: Blocks planar travel, damages creatures of differ- 
ent alignment. 
Geas/Quest: As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
Glyph of Warding, Greater: As glyph of warding, but up to 10d8 
damage or 6th-level spell. 
Harm: Deals 10 points/level damage to target. 
Heal: Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental 
__ conditions. 
| Heroes’ Feast: Food for one creature/level cures and grants com- 
| bat bonuses. 
\Inflict Moderate Wounds, Mass: Deals 2d8 damage +1/level to 
many creatures. 
_Owl’s Wisdom, Mass: As owl’s wisdom, affects one subject/level. 
‚Planar Ally*: As lesser planar ally, but up to 12 HD. 
|Summon Monster VI: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
Symbol of Fear™: Triggered rune panics nearby creatures. 
Symbol of Persuasion ™: Triggered rune charms nearby crea- 
tures. | 
Undeath to Death™: Destroys 1d4 HD/level undead (max 20d4).. 
Wind Walk: You and your allies turn vaporous and travel fast. 
Word of Recall: Teleports you back to designated place. 


7ZTH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 


Blasphemy: Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes nonevil subjects. 
Control Weather: Changes weather in local area. 
Cure Serious Wounds, Mass: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. 
Destruction !: Kills subject and destroys remains. 
_Dictum: Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nonlawful subjects. 
| Ethereal Jaunt: You become ethereal for 1 round/level. 
Holy Word: Kills, paralyzes, blinds, or deafens nongood subjects. 
Inflict Serious Wounds, Mass: Deals 3d8 damage +1/level to 
many creatures. _ 
Refuge ™: Alters item to transport its possessor to you. 
Regenerate: Subject’s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 damage 
+1/level (max +35). _ 
Repulsion: Creatures can't approach you. 
Restoration, Greater *: As restoration, plus restores all levels and 
ability scores. 
Resurrection ™: Fully restore dead subject. 
, Scrying, Greater: As scrying, but faster and longer. 
(Summon Monster VII: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for 
you. 
{Symbol of Stunning™ : Triggered rune stuns nearby creatures. 
{Symbol of Weakness ™: Triggered rune weakens nearby crea- 
| tures. 
Word of Chaos: Kills, confuses, stuns, or deafens nonchaotic | 
subjects. 


-t 


— + 


STH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 
Antimagic Field: Negates magic within 10 ft. 
Cloak of Chaos ¥ 

lawful spells. 
{Create Greater Undead ™: Create shadows, wraiths, spectres, or 
|} devourers. E 
\Cure Critical Wounds, Mass: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. 
Dimensional Lock: Teleportation and interplanar travel blocked 
for one day/level. 
[Discern Location: Reveals exact location of creature or or object. 
Earthquake: Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
Fire Storm: Deals 1d6/level fire damage. 

Holy Aura”: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil spells. 
Inflict Critical Wounds, Mass: Deals 4d8 damage +1/level to | 
many creatures. 
Planar Ally, Greater 


X: As lesser planar ally, but up to 18 HD. 


: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against | 
| 


$ 


t 
4 


+ 


Shield of Law: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic, 


į spells. 

Spell Immunity, Greater: As spell immunity, but up to 8th- level 
spells. 

Summon Monster VIII: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for. 
you. = —_ z A. 

Symbol of Death ™: Triggered rune slays nearby creatures. 

Symbol of Insanity ™: Triggered rune renders nearby creatures 
insane. 

Unholy Aura ¥ 
spells. 


gJTH-LEVEL CLERIC SPELLS 


Astral Projection ™: Projects you and companions onto Astral 
Plane. == 
Energy Drain: Subject gains 2d4 negative levels. 
Etherealness: Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions. 
Gate *: Connects two planes for travel or summoning. 
Heal, Mass: As heal, but with several subjects. 
Implosion: Kills one creature/round. 
Miracle *: Requests a deity’s intercession. 
Soul Bind": Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection. 
Storm of Vengeance: Storm rains acid, lightning, and hail. 
Summon Monster IX: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for you. 
True Resurrection ™: As resurrection, plus remains aren't needed. 


| CLERIC-_ DOMAINS 


AIR DOMAIN 

Deities: Obad-Hai. 

Granted Powers: Turn or destroy earth creatures as a good 
cleric turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster air creatures as 
an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of 
times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted 
power is a supernatural ability. 


: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against good 


Air Domain Spells 


1 Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you. 


4 


+- 


1 


— ——_—___+ 


+ 


a 


t 


Wind Wall: Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. | 


2 
3 Gaseous Form: Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly slowly. | 
4 Air Walk: Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at az | 


angle). 
Control Winds: Change wind direction and speed. _ 


Ww 


6 Chain Lightning: 1d6/level damage; 1 secondary boli/levell Ly 


each deals half damage. 
|7 Control Weather: Changes weather in local area. 
[8 Whirlwind: Cyclone deals damage and can pick up creatures. 
\9 Elemental Swarm*: Summons multiple elementals. 
*Cast as an air spell only. 


+ 


4 


d 


4 


rss 


P86 


ANIMAL DOMAIN 
Deities: Ehlonna, Obad-Hai. 
Granted Powers: You can use speak with animals once ce per day as 


a spell-like ability. 
Add Knowledge (nature) to your list of cleric class skills. | 
Animal Domain Spells ž i 


4 Calm Animals: Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals. | 

|2 Hold Animal: Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level. 

¿3 Dominate Animal: Subject animal obeys silent mental. 

{ commands. 

[4 Summon Nature's Ally IV*: Calls creature to fight. 

[s Commune with Nature: Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level. 

6 Antilife Shell: 10-ft. field hedges out living creatures. 

7 Animal Shapes: One ally/level polymorphs into chosen 
animal. 

Summon Nature's Ally VIII": Calls creature to fight. 

9 Shapechange": Transforms you into any creature, and change 
forms once per round. ji 

[*Can only summon animals. 


CHAOS DOMAIN 


Deities: Corellon Larethian, Erythnul, Gruumsh, Kord, Oli- 
dammara. 
Granted Power: You cast chaos spells at +1 caster level. 


100 


> 


4 


T Domain Spells 

1 Protection from Law: +2 to AC and | saves, counter mind 

| control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 

2 Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline crea- 

| tures. 

|3 Magic Circle against Law: As protection spells, but 10-ft. 

radius and 10 min./level. 

4 Chaos Hammer: Damages and staggers lawful creatures. 

15 Dispel Law: +4 bonus against attacks by lawful creatures. 

6 Animate ag Objects attack your foes. 

7 chao 
subjects. 

8 Cloak of Chaos": +4 to AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against -Jawful | + 
spells. | 

9 Summon Monster IX*: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for. 
you. 

*Cast as a chaos spell only. 


DEATH DOMAIN 

Deities: Nerull, Wee Jas. 

Granted Power: You may use a death touch once per day. Your 
„death touch is a supernatural ability that produces a death effect. 
You must succeed on a melee touch attack against a living creature 
(using the rules for touch spells). When you touch, roll 1d6 per 
(cleric level you possess. If the total at least equals the creature's 

current hit points, it dies (no save). 


Death Domain Spells 
1 Cause Fear: One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 rounds. 
2 Death Knell: Kill dying creature and gain 1d8 temporary hp, 
+2 to Str, and +1 caster level. 
3 Animate Dead™: Creates undead skeletons and zombies. 
4 Death Ward: Grants immunity to death spells and negative 
| energy effects. 
5. Slay Living: Touch attack kills subject. 
Create Undead ™: Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or 


mohrgs. 
17 Destruction !: Kills subject and destroys remains. 
i8 Create Greater Undead ™: Create shadows, wraiths, spectres, 
_ or devourers. 
9 Wail of the Banshee: Kills one creature/level. 


— 


DESTRUCTION DOMAIN 
Deities: St. Cuthbert, Hextor. 
Granted Power: You gain the smite power, the supernatural! 

ability to make a single melee attack with a +4 bonus on attack | 
irolls and a bonus on damage rolls equal to your cleric level (if you 
_ hit). You must declare the smite before making the attack. This 
lability is usable once per day. 


Destruction Domain Spells 
1 Inflict Light Wounds: Touch attack, 1d8 damage +1/level| 
(max +5). ] 
2 Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or cryst. stalline crea- 
tures. 
Contagion: Infects subject with chosen a disease. 
4 Inflict Critical Wounds: Touch attack, 4d8 damage. +4 level | 
(max +20). 
5 Inflict Light Wounds, Mass: Deals 1d8 damage +1/level to 
many creatures. 
16 Harm: Deals 10 points/level damage to target. 
7 Disintegrate: Makes one creature or object vanish. 
8 Earthquake: Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
9 Implosion: Kills one creature/round. 


Ww 


EARTH DOMAIN 
Deities: Moradin, Obad-Hai. a 
Granted Power: Turn or destroy air creatures as sa good. cleric 
turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster earth creatures as an | 
‚evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of] | 
times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted | 
power is a supernatural ability. 


C 4 


= — 


Earth Domain Spells 
1 Magic Stone: Three stones become +1 projectiles, 1d6 4 +1) 
damage. 
2 Soften Earth and Stone: Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or 
mud. 
3 Stone Shape: Sculpts stone into any shape. a 
4 Spike Stones: Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be 
slowed. : = 
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
Stoneskin ™: Ignore 10 points of damage per attack. 
Earthquake: Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
Iron Body: Your body becomes living iron. 
Elemental Swarm*: Summons multiple elementals. 
*Cast as an earth spell only. 


EVIL DOMAIN 


Deities: Erythnul, Gruumsh, Hextor, Nerull, Vecna. 
Granted Power: You cast evil spells at +1 caster level. 


CO AN AN 


Evil Domain Spells 
1 Protection from Good: +2 to AC and saves, counter mind 
control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
2 _Desecrate™: Fills area with negative energy, making undead 
stronger. 
3 Magic Circle against Good: As protection spells, but 10-ft. 
radius and 10 min./level. 
Unholy Blight: Damages and sickens good creatures. | 
Dispel Good: +4 bonus against attacks by good creatures. | 
Create Undead ™: Create ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs. | 
Blasphemy: Kills, paralyzes, weakens, or dazes_ nonevily 
subjects, _ 
.8 Unholy Aura!: 
spells. 
{9 Summon Monster IX": Calls extraplanar creature to fight for 
+— You. 
*Cast as an evil spell only, 


Wous 


+4 to AC, +4 resistance, SR 25 against d 


FIRE DOMAIN 

Deity: Obad-Hai. 

Granted Power: Turn or destroy water creatures as a good 
cleric turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster fire creatures as 
an evil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of | 
times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted 

_power is a supernatural ability. 


+ 


t 


L } 1 
Fire Domain Spells } 

1. Burning Hands: 1d4/level fire damage (max 5d4). L B 
2 Produce Flame: idé damage +1/ level, touch or thrown. ae | 

|3 Resist Energy“: Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack 4 

| from specified energy type. 

4 Wall of Fire: Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 5 

20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2dé damage +1/level. 6 

5 Fire Shield: Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you're 7 
__ protected from heat or cold. | 

¿6 Fire Seeds: Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. | 18 
Fire Storm: Deals 1d6/level fire damage. R i 

18 Incendiary Cloud: Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round. |} 49 


9 Elemental Swarm** 
*Resist cold or fire only. 
**Cast as a fire spell only. 


: Summons multiple elementals. 


KNOWLEDGE DOMAIN | 
Deities: Boccob, Vecna. | 
Granted Power: Add all Knowledge skills to your list of cleric | 

class skills. 

You cast divination spells at +1 caster level. 


— 


(l Knowledge Domain Spells 


Detect Secret Doors: Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 

Detect Thoughts: Allows “listening” to surface thoughts. 

Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: Hear or see at a distance for 1| 
min./level. 

Divination M; Provides useful advice for specific praposed | 
actions. : 

True Seeing ™: Lets you see all things as they really are. | 

Find the Path: Shows most direct way to a location. _ i 

Legend Lore ™?: Lets you learn tales about a person, place, o1 or 
thing. 

Discern Location: Reveals exact location of creature or. 
object. 

Foresight: “Sixth sense” warns of impending danger. 


+ 


+ 


LAW DOMAIN 


Deities: St. Cuthbert, Heironeous, Hextor, Moradin, Wee Re, 


Yondalla. 


GOOD DOMAIN 


Deities: Corellon Larethian, Ehlonna, Garl Glittergold, Heiro- 
| neous, Kord, Moradin, Pelor, Yondalla. 


_ Granted Power: You cast good spells at +1 caster level. 4 
Good Domain Spells 2 
|1 Protection from Evil: +2 to AC and sas saves, es, counter t mind con- 3 


trol, hedge out elementals and outsiders. —— 


Granted Power: You cast law spells at +1 caster level. 


Law Domain Spells 


Protection from Chaos: +2 to AC and saves, counter mind 4 
control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. | 

Calm Emotions: Calms creatures, negating emotion effects. 

Magic Circle against Chaos: As protection spells, but 10-ft.. 
radius and 10 min./level. nll 


_2_ Aid: +1 on attack rolls, +1 on saves against fear, ids temporary 4 Order's Wrath: Damages and dazes chaotic creatures. | 
hp +1/level (max +10). 5 Dispel Chaos: +4 bonus against attacks by chaotic creatures. 
3 Magic Circle against Evil: As protection spells, but 10-ft. 6 Hold Monster: As hold person, but any creature. oe 
radius and 10 min./level. 7 Dictum: Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nonlawful subjects. 
4 Holy Smite: Damages and blinds evil creatures. 8 Shield of Law: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against 
5 Dispel Evil: +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures. _ } chaotic spells. 
6 Blade Barrier: Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage. | += 9 Summon Monster IX*: Calls extraplanar creature to fight for 
7 Holy Word !: Kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens nongood | you. 
subjects. *Cast as a law spell only. 
8 Holy Aura: +4 to AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against evil a E = 
spells. LUCK DOMAIN _———  —č 
9 Summon Monster IX": Calls extraplanar creature to fight for Deities: Fharlanghn, Kord, Olidammara. 
you. Granted Power: You gain the power of good fortune, which is 
*Cast as a good spell only. usable once per day. This extraordinary ability allows you to reroll 
one roll that you have just made before the DM declares whether 
HEALING DOMAIN the roll results in success or failure. You must take the result of the 
Deity: Pelor. reroll, even if it’s worse than the original roll. 


| Granted Power: You cast healing spells at +1 caster level. 


Luck Domain Spells 


Healing Domain Spells 1 Entropic Shield: Ranged attacks against you have 20% miss 
1 Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). chance. i f 
2 Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level 2 Aid: +1 on attack rolls, +1 against fear, 1d8 temporary hp 
(max +10). +1/level (max +10). 
3 Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 3 Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 points/level of damage 
4 Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max from one kind of energy. 
+20). 4 Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally d despite | 
5 Cure Light Wounds, Mass: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max impediments. _ | 
+25) for many creatures. 5 Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, 7 
.6 Heal: Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental | alterations, curses, and petrification. = 4 
conditions. 6 Mislead: Turns you invisible and creates illusory double. 
if Regenerate: Subject’s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 7 Spell Turning: Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. { 
| damage +1/level (max +35). i8 Moment of Prescience: You gain insight bonus on single | 


8 Cure Critical Wounds, Mass: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level 
(max +40) for many creatures. 
9 Heal, Mass: As heal, but with several subjects. 


|____attack roll, check, or save. 
\9 Miracle *: Requests a deity’s intercession. 


+ 


MAGIC DOMAIN 


Deities: Boccob, Vecna, Wee Jas. 

Granted Power: Use scrolls, wands, and other devices with 
spell completion or spell trigger activation as a wizard of one-half 
your cleric level (at least 1st level). For the purpose of using a scroll | 


or other magic device, if you are also a wizard, actual wizard levels _ 


_and these effective wizard levels stack. 


Magic Domain Spells 

Nystul’s Magic Aura: Alters object's magic aura. 
Identify: Determines properties of magic item. 

Dispel Magic: Cancels magical spells and effects. 
Imbue with Spell Ability: Transfer spells to subject. 
Spell Resistance: Subject gains SR 12 + level. 
Antimagic Field: Negates magic within 10 ft. 

Spell Turning: Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 
Protection from Spells ™*: Confers +8 resistance bonus. 
Mordenkainen’s Disjunction: Dispels magic, disenchants 

t magic items. _ 


PLANT DOMAIN 

Deities: Ehlonna, Obad-Hai. 

Granted Powers: Rebuke or command plant creatures as an 
evil cleric rebukes or commands undead. Use this ability a total 
number of times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This 
granted power is a supernatural ability. 

__Add Knowledge (nature) to your list of cleric class skills. 


= 
Ses 


+ = + = 
VONA AUN 


4 


Plant Domain Spells 
l Entangle: Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius. 
|2 Barkskin: Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural 
{ armor. a 
3 Plant Growth: Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
14 Command Plants: Sway the actions of one or more plant crea- 
| tures. _ 
Wall of Thorns: Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass. 
Repel Wood: Pushes away wooden objects. 
Animate Plants: One or more trees animate and fight for you., 
Control Plants: Control actions of one or more plant crea-| 
tures. | 
9 Shambler: Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for. 
you. 


AN AWN 


PROTECTION DOMAIN _ 
Deities: Corellon Larethian, St. Cuthbert, Fharlanghn, Garl 
Glittergold, Moradin, Yondalla. 

Granted Power: You can generate a protective ward as a super- 
„natural ability. Grant someone you touch a resistance bonus equal 
lto your cleric level on his or her next saving throw. Activating this 
power is a standard action. The protective ward is an abjuration 
_effect with a duration of 1 hour that is usable once per day. 


Protection Domain Spells 
1 Sanctuary: Opponents can't attack you, and you can't attack. 
2 Shield Other": You take half of subject's damage. 
3 Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 se a of damage 


4 Spell Immunity: Subject j is immune to one spell per four 
levels. 
5 Spell Resistance: Subject gains SR 12 + level. 
6 Antimagic Field: Negates magic within 10 ft. 
_Repulsion: Creatures can't approach you. 
8 Mind Blank: Subject is immune to mental/emotional magic 
| and scrying. 
(9 Prismatic Sphere: As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all 
sides. 


STRENGTH DOMAIN = 
Deities: St. Cuthbert, Gruumsh, Kord, Pelor. | 
Granted Power: You can perform a feat of strength as a super- | 

natural ability. You gain an enhancement bonus to Strength equal | 
{to your cleric level. Activating the power is a free action, the power 
_ lasts 1 round, and it is usable once per day. 


Strength Domain Spells 
1 Enlarge Person: Humanoid creature doubles in size. 
|2 Bull’s Strength: Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. | 
13 Magic Vestment: Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per | 
four levels. a 
4 Spell Immunity: Subject is immune to one spell per four 
levels. ae — | 
5 Righteous Might: Your size increases, and you gain combat | 
bonuses. 
Stoneskin ™: Ignore 10 points of damage per attack. — — 
Bigby’s Grasping Hand: Large hand provides cover, pushes, . 
| or grapples. i 
18 Bigby’s Clenched Fist: Large hand provides cover, pushes, or 
attacks your foes. 
9 Bigby’s Crushing Hand: Large hand provides cover, pushes, . 
or crushes your foes. 


SUN DOMAIN 


Deities: Ehlonna, Pelor. =_— 

Granted Power: Once per day, you can perform a greater turn-| 
ling against undead in place of a regular turning. The greater turn- | 
ing is like a normal turning except that the undead creatures that | 
would be turned are destroyed instead. 


ma 4 


Sun Domain Spells _ i 7 —] 


1 Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ- 
ments. 

2 Heat Metal: Make metal so hot it damages those who touch it. 

3 Searing Light: Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead. 

4 Fire Shield: Creatures attacking you take fire damage; you're 
protected from heat or cold. 

Flame Strike: Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage). 

Fire Seeds: Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 

Sunbeam: Beam blinds and deals 4d6 damage. 

Sunburst: Blinds all within 80 ft., deals 6dé damage. 

Prismatic Sphere: As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all 
sides. 


TRAVEL DOMAIN 


Deities: Fharlanghn. 

Granted Powers: For a total time per day of 1 round per cleric 
level you possess, you can act normally regardless of magical 
effects that impede movement as if you were affected by the spell 
freedom of movement. This effect occurs automatically as soon as it 
applies, lasts until it runs out or is no longer needed, and can oper- 
ate multiple times per day (up to the total daily limit of rounds). 
This granted power is a supernatural ability. 

Add Survival to your list of cleric class skills. 


CO AN ANH 


Travel Domain Spells 

1 Longstrider: Your speed increases by 10 ft. 

2 Locate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or) 

type). = E 

Fly: Subject flies at speed of 60 ft. 
Dimension Door: Teleports you short distance. | 
Teleport: Instantly transports you as far as 100 miles/level. 
Find the Path: Shows most direct way to a location. 
Teleport, Greater: As teleport, but no range limit and no off- 

_ target arrival. _ 


—4 


4 


Iau p uw 


d 


8 Phase Door: Creates an invisible passage through wood or 
stone. 

9 Astral Projection™: Projects you and companions. onto Astral 
Plane. 


TRICKERY DOMAIN | 


Deities: Boccob, Erythnul, Garl Glittergold, Olidammara, | 


7 


\Nerull. į 
Granted Power: Add Bluff, Disguise, and Hide to your list of | 
„cleric class skills. } 


Trickery Domain Spells — : 
1. Disguise Self: Disguise own appearance. 

Invisibility: Subject invisible 1 min./level or until it attacks. 
Nondetection™: Hides subject from divination, scrying. 
Confusion: Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level. 
False Vision™: Fools scrying with an illusion. 
Mislead: Turns you invisible and creates illusory double. { 
[z Screen: Illusion hides area from vision, scrying. L 

18 Polymorph Any Object: Changes any subject into cme! 

else. 
9 Time Stop: You act freely for 1d4+1 rounds. 


WAR DOMAIN 
Deities: Corellon Larethian, Erythnul, Gruumsh, Heironeous, 
Hextor. 
__Granted Power: Free Martial Weapon Proficiency with deity’s 
favored weapon (if necessary) and Weapon Focus with the deity’s 
| favored weapon. 


AN AWHN 


The favored weapons of the war deities are as follows: Corellon, 
longsword; Erythnul, morningstar; Gruumsh, spear (or long- 
_spear); Heironeous, longsword; Hextor, flail (light or heavy). 


War Domain Spells 
1 Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus.. 
2 Spiritual Weapon: Magical weapon attacks on its own. 
3 Magic Vestment: Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement per, 
four levels. 
Divine Power: You gain attack bonus, +6 to Str, and 1 hp/level. | 
Flame Strike: Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage). | 
Blade Barrier: Wall of blades deals 1d6/level damage. 
Power Word Blind: Blinds creature with 200 hp or less. 
Power Word Stun: Stuns creature with 150 hp or less. 
Power Word Kill: Kills creature with 100 hp or less. 


WATER DOMAIN 

Deity: Obad-Hai. 

Granted Power: Turn or destroy fire creatures as a good cleric 
turns undead. Rebuke, command, or bolster water creatures as an 
Levil cleric rebukes undead. Use these abilities a total number of 

times per day equal to 3 + your Charisma modifier. This granted 
power is a supernatural ability. 


—t- 


OAN AWN A 


Water Domain Spells 
1 Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you. 
2 Fog Cloud: Fog obscures vision. 
3 Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater. 
4 Control Water: Raises or lowers bodies of water. ___ 
, Ice Storm: Hail deals 5dé damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. 
Cone of Cold: 1d6/level cold damage. 
7__Acid Fog: Fog deals acid damage. 
Horrid Wilting: Deals 1dé/level damage within 30 ft. 


= 


_*Cast as a water - spell a 


—— DRUIDS PETES) 
O-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS (ORISONS) —— | 

{Create Water: Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 

| Cure Minor Wounds: Cures 1 point of damage. 

Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft. 
Detect Poison: Detects poison in one creature or object. 
Flare: Dazzles one creature (—1 penalty on attack rolls). 

_Guidance: +1 on one attack roll, saving throw, or skill check. 

| Know Direction: You discern north. 

Light: Object shines like a torch. 

Mending: Makes minor repairs on an object. 

Purify Food and Drink: Purifies 1 cu. ft./level of food or water. | 

Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. = =R | 

Resistance: Subject gains +1 bonus on saving throws. 
| Virtue: Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 


(ST-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS | 

{Calm Animals: Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals. 

Charm Animal: Makes one animal your friend. 

Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). 

Detect Animals or Plants: Detects kinds of animals or plants. 

Detect Snares and Pits: Reveals natural or primitive traps. 

Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ- 
ments. 

Entangle: Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft-radius. | 

|Faerie Fire: Outlines subjects with light, canceling blur, conceal- | 
ment, and the like. , 

Goodberry: 2d4 berries each cure 1 hp (max 8 hp/24 hours). | 

Hide from Animals: Animals can't perceive one subject/level. | 

Jump: Subject gets bonus on Jump checks. Se 

Longstrider: Your speed increases by 10 ft. | 

Magic Fang: One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 on 
attack and damage rolls. 

Magic Stone: Three stones gain +1 on attack rolls, deal 1d6+1 
damage. 

Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you. 

Pass without Trace: One subject/level leaves no tracks. 

Produce Flame: 1d6 damage +1/level, touch or thrown. 

Shillelagh: Cudgel or quarterstaff becomes +1 weapon and deals 
extra damage for 1 min./level. 

Speak with Animals: You can communicate with animals. 


Summon Nature’s Ally I: Calls creature to fight. 


2ND-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Animal Messenger: Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
Animal Trance: Fascinates 2d6 HD of animals. 
Barkskin: Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor. 
Bear’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level. 
Bull's Strength: Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. 
Cat’s Grace: Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level. 
Chill Metal: Cold metal damages those who touch it. 
Delay Poison: Stops poison from harming subject for 1 
hour/level. 
Fire Trap “: Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage. 
Flame Blade: Touch attack deals 1d8 +1/two levels damage. __ 
Flaming Sphere: Creates rolling ball of fire, 2d6 damage, lasts 1 | 
round/level. | 
Fog Cloud: Fog obscures vision. | 
_Gust of Wind: Blows away or knocks down smaller creatures. 4 
Heat Metal: Make metal so hot it damages those who touch it. | 
Hold Animal: Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level. { 
{Owls Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level. | 
| Reduce Animal: Shrinks one willing animal. 


+ 


Resist Energy: Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack 


from specified energy type. 
Restoration, Lesser: Dispels scene ability penalty or repairs 
1d4 ability damage. 
Soften Earth and Stone: Turns stone to clay or dirt to sand or) 
mud. TEE 
Spider Climb: Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings. 
(Summon Nature's Ally II: Calls creature to fight. 
{Summon Swarm: Summons swarm of bats, rats, or spiders. 
‚Tree Shape: You look exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level. 
ee Wood: Bends wood (shaft, handle, door, mente 


3RUCLEVEL DRUID. SPELLS 
Call Lightning: Calls down lightning bolts (3d6 per bolt) from 
sky. 
Contagion: Infects subject with chosen disease. 
,Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10). 
(Daylight: 60-ft. radius of bright light. 


Ses 


[ 


i 
{Diminish Plants: Reduces size or blights growth of normal plants. } 
Dominate Animal: Subject animal obeys silent mental commands. 


Magic Fang, Greater: One natural weapon of subject creature 
gets +1/four levels on attack and damage rolls (max +5). 
Meld into Stone: You and your gear merge with stone. 
Neutralize Poison: Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies 
venom in or on subject. 
(Plant Growth: Grows vegetation, improves crops. 
| Poison: Touch deals 1d10 Con damage, repeats in 1 min. 
| Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 points/level of damage from 
|__ one kind of energy. co 
Quench: Extinguishes nonmagical fires or one magic item. 
Remove Disease: Cures all diseases affecting subject. 
‚Sleet Storm: Hampers vision and movement. 
| Snare: Creates a magic booby trap. 
Speak with Plants: You can talk to normal plants and plant crea- 
tures. 
Stone Shape: ore stone into any shape. 
Summon Nature’s Ally III: Calls creature to fight. 
Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater. 
Wind Wall: Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 


4TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 
Air Walk: Subject treads on air as if solid (climb at 45-degree 
angle). 
Antiplant Shell: Keeps animated plants at bay. 
Blight: Withers one plant or deals 1d6/level damage to plant 
creature. 
Command Plants: Sway the actions of one or more plant creatures. 
{Control Water: Raises or lowers bodies of water. 
_Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 
Dispel Magic: Cancels spells and magical effects. 
Flame Strike: Smite foes with divine fire (1d6/level damage). 
Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally despite imped- 
iments. = 
Giant Vermin: Turns centipedes, scorpions, or spiders into giant 
vermin. ee 
Ice Storm: Hail deals 5dé damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. 
Reincarnate: Brings dead subject back in a random body. 
Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away. 
_Rusting Grasp: Your touch corrodes iron and alloys. 
crying": Spies on subject from a distance. 
1 Stones: Creatures in area take 1d8 damage, may be slowed. 
{Summon Nature’s Ally IV: Calls creature to fight. 


+ 


| 
+ 


STH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Animal Growth: One animal/two levels doubles in size. 
Atonement: Removes burden of misdeeds from subject. 
Awaken *: Animal or tree gains human intellect. 

| Baleful Polymorph: Transforms subject into harmless animal, 

{Call Lightning Storm: As call lightning, but 5d6 damage per bolt. 
\Commune with Nature: Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level. 

Control Winds: Change wind direction and speed. 

Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level (max +20). 
Death Ward: Grants immunity to all death spells and negative | 

energy effects. 

Hallow™: Designates location as holy. 

Insect Plague: Locust swarms attack creatures. 

Stoneskin ™: Ignore 10 points of damage per attack. 

Summon Nature's Ally V: Calls creature to fight. 
Transmute Mud to Rock: Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per -level. | 
_Transmute Rock to Mud: Transforms two 10-ft. cubes per level. 
| Tree Stride: Step from one tree to another far away. 
(Unhallow™: Designates location as unholy. 

‘Wall of Fire: Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 out to 20 | 

ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 damage +1/level. 
Wall of Thorns: Thorns damage anyone who tries to pass. 


6TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Antilife Shell: 10-ft-radius field hedges out living creatures. 
Bear’s Endurance, Mass: As bear's endurance, affects one subject/ 
level. 
Bull's Strength, Mass: As bull's strength, affects one e subject/level. | 
Cat’s Grace, Mass: As cat’s grace, affects one subject/level. 
Cure Light Wounds, Mass: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level ane 
creatures. 
Dispel Magic, Greater: As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
Find the Path: Shows most direct way to a location. 
Fire Seeds: Acorns and berries become grenades and bombs. 
Ironwood: Magic wood is strong as steel. 
Liveoak: Oak becomes treant guardian. 
Move Earth: Digs trenches and builds hills. eae 
Owl’s Wisdom, Mass: As owl's wisdom, affects one subject/level. 
Repel Wood: Pushes away wooden objects. 
Spellstaff: Stores one spell in wooden quarterstaff. 
Stone Tell: Talk to natural or worked stone. 
Summon Nature's Ally VI: Calls creature to fight. 
Transport via Plants: Move instantly from one plant to another 
of the same kind. 
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 


7TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Animate Plants: One or more plants animate and fight for you. 

Changestaff: Your staff becomes a treant on command. 

Control Weather: Changes weather in local area. 

Creeping Doom: Swarms of centipedes attack at your command. 

Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. _ 

Fire Storm: Deals 1d6/level fire damage. 

Heal: Cures 10 points/level of damage, all diseases and mental 
conditions. 

Scrying, Greater: As scrying, but faster and longer. 

Summon Nature's Ally VII: Calls creature to fight. 

Sunbeam: Beam blinds and deals 4d6 damage. 

Transmute Metal to Wood: Metal within 40 ft. becomes wood, 


Wind Walk: You and your allies turn 1 vaporous and travel fast. 


4 


a 


8TH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Animal Shapes: One ally/level polymorphs into chosen animal. 
Control Plants: Control actions of one or more plant creatures. 
Cure Serious Wounds, Mass: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level for 
many creatures. 
Earthquake: Intense tremor shakes 5-ft./level radius. 
_Finger of Death: Kills one subject. 
| Repel Metal or Stone: Pushes away metal and stone. 
| Reverse Gravity: Objects and creatures fall upward. 
‚Summon Nature's Ally VIII: Calls creature to fight. } 
| Sunburst: Blinds all within 80 ft., deals 6d6 damage. 
Whirlwind: Cyclone deals damage and can pick up creatures. 
Word of Recall: Teleports you back to designated place. 


OTH-LEVEL DRUID SPELLS 


Antipathy: Object or location affected by spell repels certain 


3RD-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 


Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10). | 
Daylight: 60-ft. radius of bright light. 
Discern Lies: Reveals deliberate falsehoods. 
| {Dispel Magic: Cancels spells and magical effects. 
| Heal Mount: As heal on warhorse or other special mount. 
\Magic Circle against Chaos: As protection from chaos, but 10-ft. 
radius and 10 min./level. 
Magic Circle against Evil: As protection from evil, but 10-ft. radius 
and 10 min./level. 
| Magic Weapon, Greater: +1 bonus/four levels (max +5). 
Prayer: Allies +1 bonus on most rolls, enemies —1 penalty. 
Remove Blindness/Deafness: Cures normal or magical condi- 
tions. 
Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse. 


| 


+--+ 4-4 


+ 


+ 


= 


creatures. 4TH-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 
¿Cure Critical Wounds, Mass: Cures 4d8 damage +1/level for) __Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, alter- 
+ many creatures. 4 \__ations, curses, and petrification. 


Elemental Swarm: Summons multiple elementals. 


+ 


Foresight: “Sixth sense” warns of impending danger. 
Regenerate: Subject’s severed limbs grow back, cures 4d8 damage | 
+1/level (max +35). 
Shambler: Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to fight for you. 
Shapechange ": Transforms you into any creature, and change 
forms once per round. 
[Storm of Vengeance: Storm rains acid, lightning, and hail. 
{Summon Nature’s Ally IX: Calls creature to fight. 
| Sympathy ™: Object or location attracts certain creatures. 


J PALADIN SPELLS 
1ST-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 


Bless: Allies gain +1 on attack rolls and +1 on saves against fear. 
Bless Water: Makes holy water. 
Bless Weapon: Weapon strikes true against evil foes. 
Create Water: Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water. 
Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). a | 
Detect Poison: Detects poison in one creature or small object. | 
Detect Undead: Reveals undead within 60 ft. | 
Divine Favor: You gain +1 per three levels on attack and damage 
rolls. 
Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ- 
ments. 
Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
Protection from Chaos/Evil: +2 to AC and saves, counter mind 
control, hedge out elementals and outsiders. 
|Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. 
Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
Restoration, Lesser: Dispels magical ability penalty or repairs 
1d4 ability damage. 
Virtue: Subject gains 1 temporary hp. 


2ND-LEVEL PALADIN SPELLS 


Bull's Strength: Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. 
Delay Poison: Stops poison from harming subject for 1 
hour/level. 
Eagle's Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min, 1./level. 
_Owl’s Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level. 
_Remove Paralysis: Frees one or more creatures from paralysis or 
slow effect. 
[Resist Energy: Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack 
| from specified energy type. 
| Shield Other": You take half of subject's damage. 
Undetectable Alignment: Conceals alignment for 24 hours. 
Zone of Truth: Subjects within range cannot lie. 


2ND-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 


_Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 


Death Ward: Grants immunity to death spells and negative. 
energy effects. 

Dispel Chaos: +4 bonus against attacks by chaotic creatures. _ 

Dispel Evil: +4 bonus against attacks by evil creatures. 

Holy Sword: Weapon becomes +5, deals +2d6 damage against 
evil. : | 

Mark of Justice: Designates action that will trigger curse on | 
subject. n 

Neutralize Poison: Immunizes subject against poison, detoxifies | 
venom in or on subject. Sa 

Restoration™: Restores level and ability score drains, 


-4 
ae 


__ ~~ RANGER SPELES! 


IST-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 


Alarm: Wards an area for 2 hours/level. —— 
Animal Messenger: Sends a Tiny animal to a specific place. 
Calm Animals: Calms (2d4 + level) HD of animals. 

Charm Animal: Makes one animal your friend. 

Delay Poison: Stops poison from pabana subject for 1 


hour/ level. 


Detect Poison: Detects poison i in one creature or ee. 

Detect Snares and Pits: Reveals natural or primitive traps. 

Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold environ- 
ments. 

Entangle: Plants entangle everyone in 40-ft.-radius circle. 

Hide from Animals: Animals can't perceive one subject/level. 

Jump: Subject gets bonus on Jump checks. 

Longstrider: Your speed increases by 10 ft. 

Magic Fang: One natural weapon of subject creature gets +1 on 
attack and damage rolls. 

Pass without Trace: One subject/ level leaves no tracks. 

Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. 

Resist Energy: Ignores 10 (or more) points of damage/attack 
from specified energy type. ae | 

Speak with Animals: You can communicate with animals. —— | 

Summon Nature’s Ally I: Calls animal to fight for you. — — | 

Barkskin: Grants +2 (or higher) enhancement to natural armor. 

Bear’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./level. { 


\Cat’s Grace: Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level. | 


| Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage +1/level (max +5). 
[Hold Animal: Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level. 
| Owls Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level. 


Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 points/level of damage from 
one kind of energy. = 
Snare: Creates a magic booby trap. 
Speak with Plants: You can talk to normal plants and plant crea- 
tures. 
Spike Growth: Creatures in area take 1d4 damage, may be slowed. | 3 
Summon Nature's Ally II: Calls animal to fight for you. 
Wind Wall: Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. 


i 
3RD-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS. | 


Command Plants: Sway the actions of one or more plant crea- | 
tures. 

‘Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage +1/level (max +10). 

Darkvision: See 60 ft. in total darkness. 

Diminish Plants: Reduces size or blights growth of normal 
plants. 

‚Magic Fang, Greater: One natural weapon of subject creature 
gets +1/four caster levels on attack and damage rolls (max +5). 
Neutralize Poison: Immunizes subject against poison, detagitical 

venom in or on subject. 

Plant Growth: Grows vegetation, improves crops. 

Reduce Animal: Shrinks one willing animal. 

Remove Disease: Cures all diseases affecting subject. 

Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay 10 ft. away. 
Summon Nature's Ally III: Calls animal to fight for you. 

Tree Shape: You look exactly like a tree for 1 hour/level. 
(Water Walk: Subject treads on water as if solid. 


4TH-LEVEL RANGER SPELLS 


[Animal Growth: One animal/two levels doubles in size. 
Commune with Nature: Learn about terrain for 1 mile/level. 
_Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage +1/level (max +15). 
Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally despite imped- 
| iments. 

Nondetection ™: Hides subject from divination, scrying._ 

Summon Nature’s Ally IV: Calls animal to fight for you. 

Tree Stride: Step from one tree to another far away. 


t 


4 


- + 
SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS! 
+ 
aceon SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 
CANTRIPS) 
Abjur Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws. 
Conj _ Acid Splash: Orb deals 1d3 acid damage. 
Div _ Detect Poison: Detects poison in one creature or small 
object. 
Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items within 
| 60 ft. 


i Read Magic: Read scrolls and spellbooks. 

(Ench Daze: Humanoid creature of 4 HD or less loses next 
action. s 

Evoc Dancing Lights: Creates torches or other lights. 


Flare: Dazzles one creature (—1 on attack rolls). 
Light: Object shines like a torch. 
Ray of Frost: Ray deals 1d3 cold damage. 
Illus Ghost Sound: Figment sounds. __ 
Necro Disrupt Undead: Deals 1d6 damage. to one undead. 
Touch of Fatigue: Touch attack fatigues target. 
Trans Mage Hand: 5-pound telekinesis. 
_____ Mending: Makes minor repairs on an object. 
______ Message: Whispered conversation at distance. 
} Open/Close: Opens or closes small or light things. 
Uniy Arcane Mark: Inscribes a personal rune (visible or invis- 
ible). 


__Prestidigitation: Performs minor tricks. 


IST-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS _ 


Alarm: Wards an area for 2 hours/level. | 

Endure Elements: Exist comfortably in hot or cold envi- | 
ronments. 

| Hold Portal: Holds door shut. 


Abjur 


— = 


| Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: +2 to AC and 


saves, counter mind control, hedge out elementals and 
outsiders. 
Shield: Invisible disc gives +4 to AC, blocks magic missiles. | 
Grease: Makes 10-ft. square or one object slippery. 
Mage Armor: Gives subject +4 armor bonus. 
Mount: Summons riding horse for 2 hours/level. 
Obscuring Mist: Fog surrounds you. 
Summon Monster I: Calls extraplanar creature to fight , 
for you. 
Unseen Servant: Invisible force obeys y your commands. 
Div Comprehend Languages: You understand all spoken 
and written languages. 
Detect Secret Doors: Reveals hidden doors within 60 ft. 
Detect Undead: Reveals undead within 60 ft. 
Identify“: Determines properties of magic item. 
True Strike: +20 on your next attack roll. 
Charm Person: Makes one person your friend. 
Hypnotism: Fascinates 2d4 HD of creatures. — 
Sleep: Puts 4 HD of creatures into magical slumber. 
Burning Hands: 1d4/level fire damage (max 5d4). — 
Magic Missile: 1d4+1 damage; +1 missile per two levels | 
above 1st (max 5). 4 
Shocking Grasp: Touch delivers 1d6/level ERTS 
damage (max 5d6). | 
Tenser’s Floating Disk: Creates 3-ft. -diameter horizontal J 
disk that holds 100 1b./level. 
Color Spray: Knocks unconscious, blinds, and/or | stuns] 
subjects. 
Disguise Self: Changes your appearance. 
Nystul’s Magic Aura: Alters object’s magic aura. 
Silent Image: Creates minor illusion of your design. 
Ventriloquism: Throws voice for 1 min./level. 
Necro Cause Fear: One creature of 5 HD or less flees for 1d4 
rounds. = 
Chill Touch: One touch/level deals 1dé damage and 
possibly 1 Str damage. E3 
Ray of Enfeeblement: Ray deals 1d6 +1 per two levels Str 
penalty. 
Trans Animate Rope: Makes a rope move at your command. 
Enlarge Person: Humanoid creature doubles in size. 
Erase: Mundane or magical writing vanishes. 
Expeditious Retreat: Your speed increases by 30 ft. 
Feather Fall: Objects or creatures fall slowly. 
Jump: Subject gets bonus on Jump checks. 
Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus. 
Reduce Person: Humanoid creature halves in size. 


¿Conj 


4 


4 


+++ 


Ench 


Evoc 


Illus 


2ND-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 


Abjur_ Arcane Lock™: Magically locks a portal or chest. 

Obscure Object: Masks object against scrying. 

Protection from Arrows: Subject immune_to_most_ 
ranged attacks. 

Resist Energy: Ignores first 10 (or more) points. of | 
damage/attack from specified energy type. 

Fog Cloud: Fog obscures vision. = 

Glitterdust: Blinds creatures, outlines invisible ean! | 

Melf’ s Acid Arrow: Ranged touch attack; 2d4 damage for | 
1 round +1 round/three levels. 

Summon Monster II: Calls extraplanar creature to fight 

_ for you. 


—4 


Conj__ 


= 


Div 


[Ench 


Evoc 


Illus 


Necro 


Trans 


AS C 


Summon Swarm: Summons swarm of bats, rats, or 
spiders. 

Web: Fills 20-ft.-radius spread with sticky -spidetwebs. 

Detect Thoughts: Allows “listening” to surface thoughts. 

Locate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or. 
type). 

See Invisibility: Reveals invisible creatures or objects. 

Daze Monster: Living creature of 6 HD or less loses next | 
action. } 

Tasha’s Hideous Laughter: Subject loses actions for 1] 
round/level. 7 

Touch of Idiocy: Subject 1 takes 1d6- -point penalty to Int, 
Wis, and Cha. 

Continual Flame ™: Makes a permanent, heatless torch. 

Darkness: 20-ft. radius of supernatural shadow. 

Flaming Sphere: Creates rolling ball of fire, 2dé damage, 


____ lasts 1 round/level. 


Gust of Wind: Blows away or knocks down smaller crea-| 
tures. _ | 

Scorching Ray: Ranged touch attack deals 4d6 fire, 
damage, +1 ray/four levels (max 3). | 

Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline 
creatures. 

Blur: Attacks miss subject 20% of the time. 

Hypnotic Pattern: Fascinates (2d4 + level) HD of crea- 
tures. 

Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 1 min./level or until it 
attacks. = 

Leomund’s Trap ™: Makes item seem trapped. 

Magic Mouth™: Speaks once when triggered. _ 

Minor Image: As silent image, plus some sound. 

Mirror Image: Creates decoy duplicates of you (1d4 +1 
per three levels, max 8). 

Misdirection: Misleads divinations for one creature or 
object. 

Blindness/Deafness: Makes subject blinded or deaf- 
_ened. | 

Command Undead: Undead creature obeys your, 
commands. | 

False Life: Gain 1d10 temporary hp +1/level (max +10). | 

Ghoul Touch: Paralyzes one subject, which exudes stench | 
that makes those nearby sickened. 

Scare: Panics creatures of less than 6 HD. 

Spectral Hand: Creates disembodied glowing hand to 
deliver touch attacks. 

Alter Self: Assume form of a similar creature. 

Bear’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 to Con for 1 min./ 
level. 

Bull's Strength: Subject gains +4 to Str for 1 min./level. 

Cat’s Grace: Subject gains +4 to Dex for 1 min./level. 

Darkvision: See 60 ft. in total darkness. 

Eagle's Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Cha for 1 min./ 
level. 

Fox’s Cunning: Subject gains +4 Int for 1 min./level. 

Knock: Opens locked or magically sealed door. 

Levitate: Subject moves up and down at your direction. 

Owl’s Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wis for 1 min./level. 

Pyrotechnics: Turns fire into blinding light or choking 
smoke. a : 

Rope Trick: As many as eight creatures hide in extradi- 
mensional space. 

Spider Climb: Grants ability to walk on walls and ceilings. 

Whispering Wind: Sends a short message 1 mile/level. 


3RD-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 


Abjur. 


\Evoc 


Illus 


Necro 


Trans 


Dispel Magic: Cancels magical spells and effects. | 

Explosive Runes: Deals 6dé damage when read. | 

Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: As protec-| 
tion spells, but 10-ft. radius and 10 min./level. 

Nondetection™: Hides subject from divination, scrying. 

Protection from Energy: Absorb 12 points/level of 
damage from one kind of energy. 

Phantom Steed: Magic horse appears for 1 hour/level. 

Sepia Snake Sigil M: Creates text symbol that immobi-_ 
lizes reader. 

Sleet Storm: Hampers vision and movement. = 

Stinking Cloud: Nauseating vapors, 1 round/level.. 

Summon Monster III: Calls extraplanar creature to fight , 
for you. 

Arcane Sight: Magical auras become visible to you. 

Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: Hear or see at_a distance 
for 1 min./level. | 

Tongues: Speak any language. | 

Deep Slumber: Puts 10 HD of creatures to sleep. 

Heroism: Gives +2 bonus on attack rolls, saves, skill, 
checks. 

Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/ level. | 

Rage: Subjects gains +2 to Str and Con, +1 on Will saves, 
—2 to AC. —— 

Suggestion: Compels subject to follow stated course of. 
action. ~~ Ess 4 

Daylight: 60-ft. radius of bright light. 2. Ž — | 

Fireball: 1d6 damage per level, 20-ft. radius. | 

Leomund’s Tiny Hut: Creates shelter for ten creatures. | 

Lightning Bolt: Electricity deals 1d6/level damage. | 

Wind Wall: Deflects arrows, smaller creatures, and gases. | 

Displacement: Attacks miss subject 50%. 

Illusory Script ™: Only intended reader can decipher. 

Invisibility Sphere: Makes everyone within 10 ft. invis- 
ible. 

Major Image: As silent image, plus sound, smell and ther- 
mal effects. 

Gentle Repose: Preserves one corpse. 

Halt Undead: Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level. 

Ray of Exhaustion: Ray makes subject exhausted. 

Vampiric Touch: Touch deals 1d6/two levels damage; 
caster gains damage as hp. _ 

Blink: You randomly vanish and reappear for 1 round/level. 

Flame Arrow: Arrows deal +1d6 fire damage. 

Fly: Subject flies at speed of 60 ft. 

Gaseous Form: Subject becomes insubstantial and can fly 
slowly. 

Haste: One creature/level moves faster, +1 on attack rolls, 
AC, and Reflex saves. — 

Keen Edge: Doubles normal weapon's threat range. 

Magic Weapon, Greater: +1/four levels (max +5). 

Secret Page: Changes one page to hide its real content. 

Shrink Item: Object shrinks to one-sixteenth size. 

Slow: One subject/level takes only one action/round, —2 
to AC, —2 on attack rolls. 

Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater. 


t 


+ 


4TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS | 


Abjur 


Dimensional Anchor: Bars extradimensional_move- 4 
ment. rae | 

Fire Trap ™: Opened object deals 1d4 damage +1/level. 

Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser: Stops íst- through} 
3rd-level spell effects. 

Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse. 

Stoneskin™: Ignore 10 points of damage per attack. 


Conj 


L 


,Evoc 


Necro 


Trans 


ne Ee 


D a 


Dimension Door: Teleports you short distance. 

Evard’s Black Tentacles: Tentacles_grapple all within 
15 ft. spread. 

Leomund’s Secure Shelter: Creates sturdy cottage. 

Minor Creation: Creates one cloth or wood object. | 

Solid Fog: Blocks vision and slows movement. 


Summon Monster IV: Calls extraplanar creature to fight! 


for you. | 
Arcane Eye: Invisible floating eye moves 30 ft./round. } 
Detect Scrying: Alerts you of magical eavesdropping. ——| 
Locate Creature: Indicates direction to familiar creature. | 
Scrying”: Spies on subject from a distance. 
Charm Monster: Makes monster believe it is your ally. 
Confusion: Subjects behave oddly for 1 round/level. 
Crushing Despair: Subjects take —2 on attack rolls, 

damage rolls, saves, and checks. 


__Geas, Lesser: Commands subject of 7 HD or less. 


Fire Shield: Creatures attacking you take fire damage; 

__ youre protected from heat or cold. : 

Ice Storm: Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft. across. | 

Otiluke’s Resilient Sphere: Force globe protects but. 
traps one subject. 

Shout: Deafens all within cone and deals 5d6 sonic 
damage. 

Wall of Fire: Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft. and 1d4 
out to 20 ft. Passing through wall deals 2d6 damage 
+1/level. 

Wall of Ice: Ice plane creates wall with 15 hp +1/level, or 
hemisphere can trap creatures inside. 

Hallucinatory Terrain: Makes one type of terrain appear 
like another (field into forest, or the like). 

Illusory Wall: Wall, floor, or ceiling looks real, but 
anything can pass through. 

Invisibility, Greater: As invisibility, but subject can attack 
_and stay invisible. 

Phantasmal Killer: Fearsome illusion kills subject or 
_ deals 3dé damage. 

Rainbow Pattern: Lights fascinate 24 HD of creatures, 

Shadow Conjuration: Mimics conjuration_ below 4th) 
level, but only 20% real. | 

Animate Dead ™: Creates undead skeletons and zombies, | 

Bestow Curse: —6 to an ability score; —4 on attack rolls, 
saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action. 

Contagion: Infects subject with chosen disease. 

Enervation: Subject gains 1d4 negative levels. 

Fear: Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level. 

Enlarge Person, Mass: Enlarges several creatures. 

Polymorph: Gives one willing subject a new form. 

Rary’s Mnemonic Enhancer ': Wizard only. Prepares 
extra spells or retains one just cast. 

Reduce Person, Mass: Reduces several creatures. 

Stone Shape: Sculpts stone into any shape. 


STH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 


Abjur 


¿Conj 
$ 


+ 


Ke 


___ guard, attack. 


Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, 
alterations, curses, and petrification. 

Dismissal: Forces a creature to return to native plane. 

Mordenkainen’s Private Sanctum: Prevents anyone 
from viewing or scrying an area for 24 hours. 

Cloudkill: Kills 3 HD or less; 4—6 HD save or die, 6+ HD 
take Con damage. 

Leomund’s Secret Chest ': Hides expensive chest on 
Ethereal Plane; you retrieve it at will. 

Major Creation: As minor creation, plus stone and metal. 

Mordenkainen’s Faithful Hound: Phantom dog can 


de 


= 


Div 


_Planar Binding, Lesser: Traps extraplanar creature of 6, 


HD or less until it performs a task. 
Summon Monster V: Calls extraplanar creature to fight | | 
for you. _ 
Teleport: Instantly transports you as far as 100 miles/level. | 
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped. 
Contact Other Plane: Lets you ask question of extrapla- 
nar entity. 
Prying Eyes: 1d4 +1 /level floating eyes scout for you. 
Rary’s Telepathic Bond: Link lets allies communicate. 


[Ench Dominate Person: Controls humanoid telepathically. 


_Evoc 
4 
+ 


Illus 


Feeblemind: Subject’s Int and Cha drop to 4. 

Hold Monster: As hold person, but any creature. 

Mind Fog: Subjects in fog get —10 to Wis and Will checks. , 

Symbol of Sleep ™: Triggered rune puts nearby creatures | 
into catatonic slumber. 

Bigby’s Interposing Hand: Hand provides cover against 
one opponent. 

Cone of Cold: 1d6/level cold damage. 

Sending: Delivers short message anywhere, instantly. 

Wall of Force: Wall is immune to damage. 

Dream: Sends message to anyone sleeping. 

False Vision ™: Fools scrying with an illusion. 

Mirage Arcana: As hallucinatory terrain, plus structures. 

Nightmare: Sends vision dealing 1d10 damage, fatigue. 

Persistent Image: As major image, but no concentration 
required. 

Seeming: Changes appearance of one ‘person per two levels. | | 

Shadow Evocation: Mimics evocation below 5th level, | 
but only 20% real. 


Necro Blight: Withers one plant or deals idé/level damage t to] J 


plant creature. 
Magic Jar‘: Enables possession of another creature. 
Symbol of Pain ™: Triggered rune wracks nearby crea- 
tures with pain. = 
Waves of Fatigue: Several targets become fatigued. 


a 


Trans Animal Growth: One animal/two levels doubles in size. 


Baleful Polymorph: Transforms subject into harmless 
animal. : o 

Fabricate: Transforms raw materials into finished items. 

Overland Flight: You fly at a speed of 40 ft. and can hustle 
over long distances. 

Passwall: Creates passage through wood or stone wall. 


_Telekinesis: Moves object, attacks creature, or hurls 


object or creature. 

Transmute Mud to Rock: Transforms two 10-ft. cubes 
per level. 

Transmute Rock to Mud: Transforms two 10-ft. cubes 
per level. 


Univ Permanency*: Makes certain spells permanent. 


6TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 


Abjur_Antimagic Field: Negates magic within 10 ft. 


Conj 


_Div 


Dispel Magic, Greater: As dispel magic, but +20 on check. 
Globe of Invulnerability: As lesser globe of invulnerability, 
plus 4th-level spell effects. 
Guards and Wards: Array of magic effects protect area. 
Repulsion: Creatures can't approach you. 
Acid Fog: Fog deals acid damage. 
Planar Binding: As lesser planar binding, but up to 12 HD. 
_ Summon Monster VI: Calls extraplanar creature to fight | 
for you. 4 
Wall of Iron™: 30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes. | 
Analyze Dweomer!: Reveals magical aspects of subject. 
Legend Lore™?: Lets you learn tales about a person, place, 


__ or thing. | 


True Seeing ™: Lets you see all things as they really are. 


Geas/Quest: As lesser geas, plus it affects any creature. 
Heroism, Greater: Gives +4 bonus on attack rolls, saves, 
skill checks; immunity to fear; temporary hp. _ 
Suggestion, Mass: As suggestion, plus one subject/level. 
Symbol of Persuasion™: Triggered rune charms nearby, 
creatures, 
Bigby’s Forceful Hand: Hand pushes creatures away. | 
Chain Lightning: 1d6/level damage; 1 secondary, 
bolt/level each deals half damage. } 
Contingency": Sets trigger condition for another spell. 
Otiluke’s Freezing Sphere: Freezes water or deals cold | 
damage. = 
Mislead: Turns you invisible and creates illusory double. 
Permanent Image: Includes sight, sound, and smell. 
Programmed Image ™: As major image, plus triggered by 
event. 
___ Shadow Walk: Step into shadow to travel rapidly. 
| Veil: Changes appearance of group of creatures. { 
Necro 


Ench 


+ 


_Evoc 


Illus 


Circle of Death™: Kills 1d4/level HD of creatures. ji 

Create Undead ™: Creates ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or; 
mohrgs. | 

Eyebite: Target becomes panicked, sickened, and coma- 
tose. 

Symbol of Fear ™: Triggered rune panics nearby crea- 
tures. 

Undeath to Death ™: Destroys 1d4/level HD of undead 

i (max 20d4). 

‘Trans Bears Endurance, Mass: As bear’s endurance, affects one 

| subject/level. 

Bull's Strength, Mass: As bull’s strength, affects one sub- 
ject/level. 

Cat’s Grace, Mass: As cat’s grace, affects one subject/level. 

Control Water: Raises or lowers bodies of water. 

Disintegrate: Makes one creature or object vanish. 

Eagle's Splendor, Mass: As eagle’s splendor, affects one 
subject/level, 

Fox's Cunning, Mass: As P cunning, E one sub-, 
ject/level. 

Mordenkainen’s Lucubration: Wizard only. Recalls ‘spell 
of 5th level or lower. 

Move Earth: Digs trenches and build hills. 

Owl’s Wisdom, Mass: As owl’s wisdom, affects one sub- 
_ject/level. 

Stone to Flesh: Restores petrified creature. 

Tenser’s Transformation ™: You gain combat bonuses. 


ZTH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS 


|Abjur_ Banishment: Banishes 2 HD/level of extraplanar crea- 

| tures. 

Sequester: Subject is invisible to sight and scrying; 
renders creature comatose. 

Spell Turning: Reflect 1d4+6 spell levels back at caster. 

Drawmij’s Instant Summons ™: Prepared object appears 
in your hand. 

Mordenkainen’s Magnificent Mansion *: Door leads to 
extradimensional mansion. _ 

Phase Door: Creates an invisible passage through wood 
or stone. ee : 

| Plane Shift": As many as eight subjects travel to another 

H plane. 


Conj 


fight for you. 

Teleport, Greater: As teleport, but no range limit and no 
off-target arrival. 

Teleport Object: As teleport, but affects a touched object. | 


Jj} 


Arcane Sight, Greater: As arcane sight, but also reveals, 
magic effects on creatures and objects. | 

Scrying, Greater: As scrying, but faster and longer. | 

— Vision ™*:; As legend lore, but quicker and strenuous... 

Ench Hold Person, Mass: As hold person, but all within 30 ft. 

ji Insanity: Subject suffers continuous confusion. 

Power Word Blind: Blinds creature with 200 hp or less. 

Symbol of Stunning™: Triggered rune stuns nearby crea- 
tures. 

Bigby’s Grasping Hand: Hand provides cover, pushes, or; 
grapples. 

Delayed Blast Fireball: 1d6/level fire damage; you. cau 
postpone blast for 5 rounds. 

Forcecage ™: Cube or cage of force i imprisons all inside. 

Mordenkainen’s Sword ": Floating magic blade strikes | 
opponents. 

Prismatic Spray: Rays hit subjects with variety of effects. 

Invisibility, Mass: As invisibility, but affects all in range. , 

| Project Image: Illusory double can talk and cast spells. _. 

| Shadow Conjuration, Greater: As shadow conjuration, 
but up to 6th level and 60% real. 

Simulacrum ™*: Creates partially real double of a creature. | 

Control Undead: Undead don't attack you while under] 
your command. 

Finger of Death: Kills one subject. 

Symbol of Weakness “ 
creatures. 

Waves of Exhaustion: Several targets become exhausted, $ 

Control Weather: Changes weather in local area. 

Ethereal Jaunt: You become ethereal for 1 round/level. | 

Reverse Gravity: Objects and creatures fall upward. 

Statue: Subject can become a statue at will. = 

Limited Wish *: Alters reality—within spell limits. | 


8TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS _ 
Abjur Dimensional Lock: Teleportation and interplanar travel 

blocked for one day/level. ——= 

Mind Blank: Subject is immune to mental/emotional 
magic and scrying. __ 

Prismatic Wall: Wall's colors have a array of effects. 

Protection from Spells ™*: Confers +8 resistance bonus. 

Incendiary Cloud: Cloud deals 4d6 fire damage/round. 

Maze: Traps subject in extradimensional maze. 

Planar Binding, Greater: As lesser planar binding, but up 
to 18 HD. 

Summon Monster VIII: Calls extraplanar creature to 
fight for you. 

Trap the Soul™*: Imprisons subject within gem. 

Discern Location: Reveals exact location of creature or 
object. 

Moment of Prescience: You gain insight bonus on single 

attack roll, check, or save. 

Prying Eyes, Greater: As prying eyes, but eyes have true 
seeing. 

Antipathy: Object or location affected by spell repels 
certain creatures. 

Binding ™: Utilizes an array of techniques to imprison a | 


Div 


Evoc 


Necro 


: Triggered rune weakens nearby. 


Trans 


Univ 


Conj 


Div 


Ench 


creature. 
Charm Monster, Mass: As charm monster, but all within | 
30 ft. ae 
Demand: As sending, plus you can send suggestion. | 


Otto's Irresistible Dance: Forces subject to dance._ n 
Power Word Stun: Stuns creature with 150 hp or less. | 
_ Symbol of Insanity M: Triggered rune renders nearby | 
creatures insane. 
Sympathy: Object or location attracts certain creatures. 


_Prismatic Sphere: As prismatic wall, but surrounds on all, 


sides. | 
Gate *: Connects two planes for travel or summoning. _| 
Refuge™: Alters item to transport its possessor to you. —; 
Summon Monster IX: Calls extraplanar creature to fight 
Teleportation Circle M: Circle teleports_any creature 

inside to designated spot. 
Foresight: “Sixth sense” warns of impending danger. 
Dominate Monster: As dominate person, but any creature. | 
Hold Monster, Mass: As hold monster, but all within 30 ft.) 
Power Word Kill: Kills one creature with 100 hp or less. 
Bigby’s Crushing Hand: Large hand_provides cover, 

pushes, or crushes your foes. | 
Meteor Swarm: Four exploding spheres each deal 6d6 | 


Evoc Bigby’s Clenched Fist: Large hand provides cover, 
pushes, or attacks your foes. 
Otiluke’s Telekinetic Sphere: As Otiluke’s resilient sphere, Conj 
but you move sphere telekinetically. 
Polar Ray: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level cold damage. | 
Shout, Greater: Devastating yell deals 10d6 sonic > 2 for you. 
damage; stuns creatures, damages objects. | 
Sunburst: Blinds all within 80 ft., deals 6dé damage. | 
flus Scintillating Pattern: Twisting colors confuse, stun, or } Div 
render unconscious. Ench 
| Screen: Illusion hides area from vision, scrying. 
| Shadow Evocation, Greater: As shadow evocation, but up 
| to 7th level and 60% real. Evoc 
Necro Clone™*: Duplicate awakens when original dies. 
Create Greater Undead ™: Create shadows, wraiths, spec- 
tres, or devourers. fire damage. 
Horrid Wilting: Deals 1d6/level damage within 30 ft. Illus 


Symbol of Death ™: Triggered rune slays nearby crea- 
tures. 


} 


$: 


Shades: As shadow conjuration, but up to 8th level and 80% 
real. 
Weird: As phantasmal killer, but affects all within 30 ft. 


[Trans Iron Body: Your body becomes living iron. | Necro Astral Projection ™: Projects you and companions onto 
Polymorph Any Object: Changes any subject into any- | Astral Plane. 
thing else. Energy Drain: Subject gains 2d4 negative levels. 
Temporal Stasis ~: Puts subject into suspended anima- Soul Bind *: Traps newly dead soul to prevent resurrection. | 
tion. Wail of the Banshee: Kills one creature/level. 
Trans _Etherealness: Travel to Ethereal Plane with companions. 
9TH-LEVEL SORCERER/WIZARD SPELLS Shapechange ": Transforms you into any creature, and 
Abjur Freedom: Releases creature from imprisonment. change forms once per round. __ = | 
| Imprisonment: Entombs subject beneath the earth. | Time Stop: You act freely for 1d4+1 rounds. | 
Mordenkainen’s Disjunction: Dispels magic, disen- Univ Wish: As limited wish, but with fewer limits. — ] 


chants magic items. 


The spells herein are presented in alpha- 
betical order (with the exception of those 
whose names begin with “greater,” 
“lesser,” or “mass”; see Order of Presen- 
tation, page 181). 


Acid Fog 
{Conjuration (Creation) [Acid] 
‘Level: Sor/Wiz 6, Water 7 
\Components: V, S, M/DF 
[Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. 

high 

Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


Acid fog creates a billowing mass of misty 
‘vapors similar to that produced by a solid 
fog spell (page 281). In addition to slowing 
icreatures down and obscuring sight, this 
\spell’s vapors are highly acidic. Each 
round on your turn, starting when you 
cast the spell, the fog deals 2d6 points of 
acid damage to each creature and object 
within it. 

Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 
dried, powdered peas combined with pow- 
dered animal hoof. 


Acid Splash 
Conjuration (Creation) [Acid] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One missile of acid 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You fire a small orb of acid at the target. 
You must succeed on a ranged touch 
attack to hit your target. The orb deals 1d3 
points of acid damage. 


Aid 

Enchantment (Compulsion) 
[Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Clr 2, Good 2, Luck 2 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Aid grants the target a +1 morale bonus on 
attack rolls and saves against fear effects, 
plus temporary hit points equal to 1d8 + 
caster level (to a maximum of 1d8+10 tem- 
porary hit points at caster level 10th). 


Air Walk 
Transmutation [Air] 
Level: Air 4, Clr 4, Drd 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature (Gargantuan or smaller) 
___touched 
‘Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject can tread on air as if walking 
on solid ground. Moving upward is similar 
to walking up a hill. The maximum 
upward or downward angle possible is 45, 
degrees, at a rate equal to one-half the air 
walker’s normal speed. 

A strong wind (21+ mph) can push the 
subject along or hold it back. At the end of 
its turn each round, the wind blows the air 
walker 5 feet for each 5 miles per hour of 
wind speed. The creature can, at the DM's 
option, be subject to additional penalties 
in exceptionally strong or turbulent 
winds, such as loss of control over move- 
ment or physical damage from being buf- 
feted about. 

Should the spell duration expire while 
the subject is still aloft, the magic fails 
slowly. The subject floats downward 60 feet 
per round for 1d6 rounds. If it reaches the 
ground in that amount of time, it lands 


safely. If not, it falls the rest of the distance, 
taking 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet of 
fall. Since dispelling a spell effectively 
ends it, the subject also descends in this 
way if the air walk spell is dispelled, but 
not if it is negated by an antimagic field. 
You can cast air walk on a specially 
trained mount so it can be ridden through 
the air. You can train a mount to move 
| with the aid of air walk (counts as a trick; 
| see page 74) with one week of work and a 
| DC 25 Handle Animal check. 


Alarm 

Abjuration 

Level: Brd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, F/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Area: 20-ft.-radius emanation centered 
on a point in space 

Duration: 2 hours/level(D) — 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Alarm sounds a mental or audible alarm, 
each time a creature of Tiny or larger size 
enters the warded area or touches it. A 
creature that speaks the password (deter- 
mined by you at the time of casting) does 
not set off the alarm. You decide at the 
time of casting whether the alarm will be 
mental or audible. 

Mental Alarm: A mental alarm alerts 
you (and only you) so long as you remain 
within 1 mile of the warded area. You note 
a single mental “ping” that awakens you 
from normal sleep but does not otherwise 
disturb concentration. A silence spell has 
no effect on a mental alarm. 

Audible Alarm: An audible alarm pro- 
| duces the sound of a hand bell, and anyone 
| within 60 feet of the warded area can hear 
lit clearly. Reduce the distance by 10 feet for 
[each interposing closed door and by 20 

feet for each substantial interposing wall. 
In quiet conditions, the ringing can be 
heard faintly as far as 180 feet away. The 
sound lasts for 1 round. Creatures within a 
silence spell cannot hear the ringing. 

Ethereal or astral creatures do not trig- 
ger the alarm. 

Alarm can be made permanent with a 

| permanency spell. ae 

Arcane Focus: A tiny bell and a piece of 
| very fine silver wire. 


Align Weapon 

Transmutation [see text] 

Level: Clr 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Weapon touched or fifty projec- 
tiles (all of which must be in contact 
with each other at the time of casting) 

Duration: 1 min./level 


Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


Align weapon makes a weapon good, evil, 
lawful, or chaotic, as you choose. A weapon 
that is aligned can bypass the damage 
reduction of certain creatures, usually out- 
siders of the opposite alignment. This spell 
‘has no effect on a weapon that already has 
an alignment, such as a holy sword. 

You can't cast this spell on a natural 
‘weapon, such as an unarmed strike. 

When you make a weapon good, evil, 
lawful, or chaotic, align weapon is a good, 
evil, lawful, or chaotic spell, respectively. 


Alter Self 


Transmutation (Polymorph) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 

\Casting Time: 1 standard action 
\Range: Personal 

\Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 


You assume the form of a creature of the 
same type as your normal form (such as 
humanoid or magical beast). The new 
form must be within one size category of 
your normal size. The maximum HD of 
an assumed form is equal to your caster. 
level, to a maximum of 5 HD at Sth level. 
You can change into a member of your 
own kind or even into yourself. | 
| You retain your own ability scores. Your 
class and level, hit points, alignment, base 
attack bonus, and base save bonuses all 
remain the same. You retain all supernatu- 
ral and spell-like special attacks and quali- 
ties of your normal form, except for those 
requiring a body part that the new form 
does not have (such as a mouth for a 
breath weapon or eyes for a gaze attack). 
You keep all extraordinary special attacks 
and qualities derived from class levels 
(such as a barbarian's rage ability), but you 
lose any from your normal form that are 
not derived from class levels (such as a 
dragon's frightful presence ability). 

If the new form is capable of speech, 
you can communicate normally. You 
retain any spellcasting ability you had in 
your original form, but the new form 
must be able to speak intelligibly (that is, 
speak a language) to use verbal compo- 
nents and must have limbs capable of fine 
manipulation to use somatic or material 
components. 

You acquire the physical qualities of the 
new form while retaining your own mind. 
Physical qualities include natural size, 
mundane movement capabilities (such as 
burrowing, climbing, walking, swimming, 
and flight with wings, to a maximum 
speed of 120 feet for flying or 60 feet for 
nonflying movement), natural armor 


bonus, natural weapons (such as claws, 
bite, and so on), racial skill bonuses, racial 
bonus feats, and any gross physical quali- 
ties (presence or absence of wings, number 
of extremities, and so forth). A body with 
extra limbs does not allow you to make 
more attacks (or more advantageous two- 
weapon attacks) than normal. } 

You do not gain any extraordinary spe- | 
cial attacks or special qualities not noted | 
above under physical qualities, such as 
darkvision, low-light vision, blindsense, 
blindsight, fast healing, regeneration, 
scent, and so forth. 

You do not gain any supernatural spe- 
cial attacks, special qualities, or spell-like 
abilities of the new form. Your creature 
type and subtype (if any) remain the same 
regardless of your new form. You cannot 
take the form of any creature with a tem- 
plate, even if that template doesn’t change 
the creature type or subtype. 

You can freely designate the new form's 
minor physical qualities (such as hair color, 
hair texture, and skin color) within the 
normal ranges for a creature of that kind. 
The new form's significant physical quali- 
ties (such as height, weight, and gender) are 
also under your control, but they must fall 
within the norms for the new form’s kind. 
You are effectively disguised as an average 
member of the new forms race. If you use 
this spell to create a disguise, you get a +10 
bonus on your Disguise check. 

When the change occurs, your equip- 
ment, if any, either remains worn or held 
by the new form (if it is capable of wear- 
ing or holding the item), or melds into 
the new form and becomes nonfunc- 
tional. When you revert to your true form, 
any objects previously melded into the 
new form reappear in the same location 
on your body they previously occupied 
and are once again functional. Any new 
items you wore in the assumed form and 
can't wear in your normal form fall off and 
land at your feet; any that you could wear 
in either form or carry in a body part 
common to both forms (mouth, hands, or. 
the like) at the time of reversion are still | 
held in the same way. Any part of the body | 
or piece of equipment that is separated 
from the whole reverts to its true form. 


Analyze Dweomer 


Divination 

Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One object or creature per 
caster level 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: No 


198 


You discern all spells and magical proper- 
ties present in a number of creatures or 
objects. Each round, you may examine a 
single creature or object that you can see 
as a free action. In the case of a magic item, 
you learn its functions, how to activate its 
functions (if appropriate), and how many 
charges are left (if it uses charges). In the 
case of an object or creature with active, 
| spells cast upon it, you learn each spell, its, 
| effect, and its caster level. | 

An attended object may attempt a Will 

{save to resist this effect if its holder so 
desires. If the save succeeds, you learn 
nothing about the object except what 
you can discern by looking at it. An 
object that makes its save cannot be 
affected by any other analyze dweomer 
spells for 24 hours. 

Analyze dweomer does not function 
when used on an artifact (see the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide for details on artifacts). | 

Focus: A tiny lens of ruby or sapphire 
set in a small golden loop. The gemstone 
must be worth at least 1,500 gp. 


Animal Growth 


Transmutation _ 

Level: Drd 5, Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S mae 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Targets: Up to one animal (Gargantuan 
or smaller)/two levels, no two of 


which can be more than 30 ft. apart | 


Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


+ 


A number of animals grow to twice their 
| normal size and eight times their normal 
| weight. This alteration changes each ani- 
{mals size category to the next largest 
\(from Large to Huge, for example), 
| grants it a +8 size bonus to Strength and 
a +4 size bonus to Constitution (and thus 

an extra 2 hit points per HD), and 

imposes a —2 size penalty to Dexterity. 

The creature’s existing natural armor 

bonus increases by 2. The size change 

also affects the animal’s modifier to AC 

and attack rolls and its base damage, as 

detailed on Table 2-2 in the Dungeon 
| Master’s Guide. The animal’s space and 
| reach change as indicated on Table 8—4: 
Creature Size and Scale (page 149), but 
lits speed does not change. 

The spell also grants each subject 
damage reduction 10/magic and a +4 
resistance bonus on saving throws. 

If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, the creature attains the 
maximum possible size and may make a 
Strength check (using its increased 
Strength) to burst any enclosures in the 
process. If it fails, it is constrained with- 
out harm by the materials enclosing it— 


the spell cannot be used to crush a crea- 
ture by increasing its size. 

All equipment worn or carried by an 
animal is similarly enlarged by the spell, 
though this change has no effect on the 
magical properties of any such equip- 
ment. Any enlarged item that leaves the 
enlarged creature’s possession instantly 
returns to its normal size. 

The spell gives no means of command 
or influence over the enlarged animals. 

Multiple magical effects that increase 
‘size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can't use a second 
casting of this spell to further increase the 
size of an animal that’s still under the 
effect of the first casting. 


Animal Messenger 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
__ Affecting] 

‘Level: Brd 2, Drd 2, Rgr 1 
‘Components: V, S, M 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 
|Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
\Target: One Tiny animal 
‘Duration: One day/level 

‘Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You compel a Tiny animal to go to a spot. 
you designate. The most common use for 
this spell is to get an animal to carry a 
message to your allies. The animal cannot 
‘be one tamed or trained by someone else, 


‘including such creatures as familiars and 
animal companions. i 
Using some type of food desirable to 
the animal as a lure, you call the animal 
to you. It advances and awaits your bid- 
ding. You can mentally impress on the 
animal a certain place well known to 


you or an obvious landmark (such as the. 


peak of a distant mountain). The direc- 
tions must be simple, because the animal 
depends on your knowledge and can’t 
find a destination on its own. You can 
attach some small item or note to the 
messenger. The animal then goes to the 
designated location and waits there until 
the duration of the spell expires, where- 
upon it resumes its normal activities. 

During this period of waiting, the mes- 
senger allows others to approach it and 
remove any scroll or token it carries. 
Unless the intended recipient of a mes- 
sage is expecting a messenger in the form 
of a bird or other small animal, the carrier 
may be ignored. The intended recipient 
gains no special ability to communicate 
with the animal or read any attached mes- 
sage (if it’s written in a language he or she 
doesn't know, for example). 

Material Component: A morsel of food 
the animal likes. 


Animal Shapes 


Transmutation (Polymorph) 

Level: Animal 7, Drd 8 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Up to one willing creature per 
level, all within 30 ft. of each other 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


You transform up to one willing creature 
per caster level into an animal of your 
choice; the spell has no effect on unwill- 
ing creatures. Use the alternate form spe- 
cial ability (Monster Manual, page 305) to 
determine each subject's new abilities, 
rather than the polymorph subschool. 
The maximum Hit Dice of an assumed 
form is equal to the subject’s HD or your 
caster level, whichever is lower, to a maxi- 
mum of 20 HD at 20th level. 

Recipients remain in the assumed form 
until the spell ends or until you dismiss it 
for all recipients. An individual recipient 
can resume its natural form as a full- 
round action. Doing so ends the spell 
only for that recipient. 


Animal Trance 


‘Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 

__ Affecting, Sonic] 

Level: Brd 2, Drd 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Animals or magical beasts with 

Intelligence 1 or 2 
Duration: Concentration 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
cm Resistance: Yes 
Your swaying motions and music (or sing- 
ing, or chanting) compel animals and mag- 
ical beasts to do nothing but watch you. 
Only a creature with an Intelligence score 
of 1 or 2 can be fascinated by this spell. Roll 
2d6 to determine the total number of HD | 
worth of creatures that you fascinate. The | 
closest targets are selected first until no | 
more targets within range can be affected. 
For example, if Vadania affects 7 HD worth 
of animals and there are several 2 HD 
wolves within close range, only the three 
closest wolves are affected. 

A magical beast, a dire animal, or an 
animal trained to attack or guard is 
allowed a saving throw; an animal not 
trained to attack or guard is not. 


Animate Dead 


Necromancy [Evil] 

Level: Clr 3, Death 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 


Targets: One or more corpses touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell turns the bones or bodies of 
dead creatures into undead skeletons or 
zombies that follow your spoken com- 
mands. The undead can follow you, or 
they can remain in an area and attack any, 
| creature (or just a specific kind of crea- 
| ture) entering the place. They remain ani- 
mated until they are destroyed. (A 
destroyed skeleton or zombie can't be ani- 
mated again.) 

Regardless of the kind of undead you 
create with this spell, you can’t create 
more HD of undead than twice your 
caster level with a single casting of ani- 
mate dead. (The desecrate spell doubles this 
limit; see page 218.) 

The undead you create remain under 


your control indefinitely. No matter how, 


many times you use this spell, however, 
you can control only 4 HD worth of 
undead creatures per caster level. If you 
exceed this number, all the newly created 
creatures fall under your control, and any 
excess undead from previous castings 
become uncontrolled. (You choose which 
creatures are released.) If you are a cleric, 
any undead you might command by 
virtue of your power to command or re- 
buke undead do not count toward the 
limit. si 
Skeletons: A skeleton can be created 
only from a mostly intact corpse or skele- 
ton. The corpse must have bones, so creat- 
ing a skeleton from a purple worm, for 
example, is not possible. If a skeleton is 
_made from a corpse, the flesh falls off the 
(bones. _ S 
Zombies: A zombie can be created only 
| from a mostly intact corpse. The corpse 
must be that of a creature with a true 
anatomy, so a dead gelatinous cube, for 
example, cannot be animated as a 
zombie. 

Material Component: You must place a 
black onyx gem worth at least 25 gp per 
Hit Die of the undead into the mouth or 
eye socket of each corpse you intend to 
animate. The magic of the spell turns these 
| gems into worthless, burned-out shells. 


t 


Animate Objects 

| Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Chaos 6, Clr 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One Small object per caster 

level; see text 

Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You imbue inanimate objects with mobil- 
ity and a semblance of life. Each such ani- 
mated object then immediately attacks 
whomever or whatever you initially des- 
ignate. An animated object can be of any 
nonmagical material—wood, metal, 
stone, fabric, leather, ceramic, glass, or the 
like You may animate one Small or 
smaller object (such as a chair) or an 
(equivalent number of larger objects per 
caster level. A Medium object (such as a 
‘coat rack) counts as two Small or smaller 
objects, a Large object (such as a table) as 
four, a Huge object as eight, a Gargantuan 
object as sixteen, and a Colossal object as 
thirty-two. You can change the designated 
target or targets as a move action, as if 
directing an active spell. 

The Monster Manual has game statistics 
for animated objects. 
__ This spell cannot animate objects car- 
‘ried or worn by a creature. 

Animate objects can be made permanent 
‘with a permanency spell. 


Animate Plants 


Transmutation 

‘Level: Drd 7, Plant 7 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Targets: One Large plant per three caster. 


levels or all plants within range; see 
text 


Duration: 1 round/level or 1 hour/level; 


see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You imbue inanimate plants with mobility 
and a semblance of life. Each animated 
plant then immediately attacks whomever 


or whatever you initially designate as. 


though it were an animated object of the 
appropriate size category. You may ani- 
mate one Large or smaller plant (such as a 
tree), or an equivalent number of larger 
plants, per three caster levels. A Huge 
plant counts as two Large or smaller 
plants, a Gargantuan plant as four, and a 
Colossal plant as eight. You can change the 
designated target or targets as a move 
action, as if directing an active spell. 

Use the statistics for animated objects 
found in the Monster Manual, except that 
plants smaller than Large don't have hard- 
ness unless the DM rules otherwise for a 
given case. 

Animate plants cannot affect plant crea- 
tures (such as treants), nor does it affect 
nonliving vegetable material (such as a 
cotton tunic or hempen rope). 

Entangle: Alternatively, you may imbue 
all plants within range with a degree of 
mobility, which allows them to entwine 
around creatures in the area. This usage of 
the spell duplicates the effect of an 


entangle spell. Spell resistance does not 
keep creatures from being entangled. This 
effect lasts 1 hour per caster level. 


Animate Rope 


‘Transmutation 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target: One ropelike object, length up to 
50 ft. + 5 ft./level; see text 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can animate a nonliving ropelike 
object, such as string, yarn, cord, line, 
rope, or even a cable. The maximum 
length assumes a rope with a 1-inch diam- 
eter. Reduce the maximum length by 50% 
for every additional inch of thickness, 
and increase it by 50% for each reduction 
of the rope’s diameter by half. 

The possible commands are “coil” 
(form a neat, coiled stack), “coil and knot,” 
“loop,” “loop and knot,” “tie and knot,” and 
the opposites of all of the above (“uncoil,” 
and so forth). You can give one command 
each round as a move action, as if direct- 
ing an active spell. 

The rope can enwrap only a creature or 
an object within 1 foot of it—it does not 
snake outward—so it must be thrown 
near the intended target. Doing so re- 
quires a successful ranged touch attack 
roll (range increment 10 feet). A typical 1- 
inch-diameter hempen rope has 2 hit 
points, AC 10, and requires a DC 23 
Strength check to burst it. The rope does 
not deal damage, but it can be used as a 
trip line or to cause a single opponent that 
fails a Reflex saving throw to become 
entangled. A creature capable of spellcast- 
ing that is bound by this spell must make 
a DC 15 Concentration check to cast a 
spell. An entangled creature can slip free 
with a DC 20 Escape Artist check. 
| The rope itself and any knots tied in it 
are not magical. | 

This spell grants a +2 bonus on any Use | 
Rope checks you make when using the 
transmuted rope. 

The spell cannot animate objects car- 
ried or worn by a creature. 


Antilife Shell 


Abjuration 

Level: Animal 6, Clr 6, Drd 6 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: 10 ft. 

Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered 
on you 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


200 


You bring into being a mobile, hemi- 
spherical energy field that prevents the 
entrance of most types of living creatures. 
The effect hedges out animals, aberra- 
tions, dragons, fey, giants, humanoids, 
magical beasts, monstrous humanoids, 
oozes, plants, and vermin, but not con- 
structs, elementals, outsiders, or undead. 
See the Monster Manual for more about 
| creature types. | 
This spell may be used only defen- 
sively, not aggressively. Forcing an abjura- 
ition barrier against creatures that the 
spell keeps at bay collapses the barrier 
(see Abjuration, page 172). 


Antimagic Field 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 8, Magic 6, Protection 6, 
Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action | 

Range: 10 ft. } 

Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered 
on you 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: See text 


An invisible barrier surrounds you and 
moves with you. The space within this 
barrier is impervious to most magical 
effects, including spells, spell-like abili- 
ties, and supernatural abilities. Likewise, 


it prevents the functioning of any magic_ 


items or spells within its confines. | 

An antimagic field suppresses any spell 
or magical effect used within, brought 
into, or cast into the area, but does not 
dispel it. A hasted creature, for example, is 

_not hasted while inside the field, but the 
| spell resumes functioning when the crea- 
| ture leaves the field. Time spent within an 
lantimagic field counts against the sup- 
| pressed spell’s duration. 

Summoned creatures of any type and 
incorporeal undead wink out if they enter 
an antimagic field. They reappear in the 
same spot once the field goes away. Time 
spent winked out counts normally against 
the duration of the conjuration that is 
maintaining the creature. If you cast 
antimagic field in an area occupied by a 

summoned creature that has spell resist- 
lance, you must make a caster level check 
| (4d20 + caster level) against the creature's 
| spell resistance to make it wink out. (The 
effects of instantaneous conjurations, 
such as create water, are not affected by an 
antimagic field because the conjuration 
itself is no longer in effect, only its result.) 

A normal creature (a normally encoun- 
tered griffon rather than a conjured one, 
for instance) can enter the area, as can 
normal missiles. Furthermore, while a 
magic sword does not function magically 
within the area, it is still a sword (and a 


masterwork sword at that). The spell has 
no effect on golems and other constructs 
that are imbued with magic during their 
creation process and are thereafter self- 
supporting (unless they have been sum- 
moned, in which case they are treated like 
any other summoned creatures). Elemen- 
tals, corporeal undead, and outsiders are 
likewise unaffected unless summoned. 
‘These creatures’ spell-like or supernatural 
abilities, however, may be temporarily 
nullified by the field. 

Dispel magic does not remove the field. 
Two or more antimagic fields sharing any 
of the same space have no effect on each 
other. Certain spells, such as wall of force, 
prismatic sphere, and prismatic wall, remain 
unaffected by antimagic field (see the indi- 
vidual spell descriptions). Artifacts and 
deities are unaffected by mortal magic 
such as this. (See the Dungeon Master's 
\Guide for more about artifacts.) 

_ Should a creature be larger than the 
\area enclosed by the barrier, any part of it 
ithat lies outside the barrier is unaffected 
by the field. 

Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 
‘powdered iron or iron filings. 


Antipathy 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

(Casting Time: 1 hour 

‘Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

‘Target: One location (up to a 10-ft. 
cube/level) or one object 

Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will partial 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You cause an object or location to ema- 


nate magical vibrations that repel either a 
specific kind of intelligent creature or 
creatures of a particular alignment, as 
defined by you. The kind of creature to be 
affected must be named specifically—for 
example, red dragons, hill giants, wer- 
erats, lammasus, cloakers, or vampires. A 
creature subtype (such as goblinoid) is 
not specific enough. Likewise, the spe- 
cific alignment to be repelled must be 
named—for example, chaotic evil, cha- 
otic good, lawful neutral, or neutral. 
Creatures of the designated kind or 
alignment feel an overpowering urge to 
leave the area or to avoid the affected item. 
A compulsion forces them to abandon the 
area or item, shunning it and never will- 
ingly returning to it while the spell is in 
effect. A creature that makes a successful 
saving throw can stay in the area or touch 
the item but feels uncomfortable doing so. 
This distracting discomfort reduces the 
creature's Dexterity score by 4 points. 
Antipathy counters and dispels sympathy. 


Arcane Material Component: A lump of 
alum soaked in vinegar. 


Antiplant Shell 


Abjuration 

Level: Drd 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 10 ft. 

Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation, centered 
on you 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


The antiplant shell spell creates an invis- 
ible, mobile barrier that keeps all crea- 
tures within the shell protected from 
attacks by plant creatures or animated 
plants. As with many abjuration spells, 
forcing the barrier against creatures that 
the spell keeps at bay strains and collapses 
the field (see Abjuration, page 172). 


Arcane Eye 


Divination (Scrying) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Unlimited 

Effect: Magical sensor 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You create an invisible magical sensor 

that sends you visual information. You 

can create the arcane eye at any point you 

can see, but it can then travel outside your 

line of sight without hindrance. An arcane 

eye travels at 30 feet per round (300 feet 

per minute) if viewing an area ahead as a 

human would (primarily looking at the 

floor) or 10 feet per round (100 feet per 

minute) if examining the ceiling and 

walls as well as the floor ahead. It sees 

exactly as you would see if you were there. 

The eye can travel in any direction as long 

as the spell lasts. Solid barriers block its, 
passage, but it can pass through a hole or, 
space as small as 1 inch in diameter. The | 
eye cant enter another plane of existence, 

even through a gate or similar magical 

portal. 

You must concentrate to use an arcane 
eye. If you do not concentrate, the eye is 
inert until you again concentrate. 

Material Component: A bit of bat fur. 


Arcane Lock 


Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: The door, chest, or portal 
touched, up to 30 sq. ft./level in size 


Duration: Permanent 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


An arcane lock spell cast upon a door, 
chest, or portal magically locks it. You can 
freely pass your own arcane lock without 
affecting it; otherwise, a door or object 
secured with this spell can be opened 
_only by breaking in or with a successful 
| dispel magic or knock spell. Add 10 to the 
| normal DC to break open a door or portal 
| affected by this spell. (A knock spell does 
not remove an arcane lock; it only sup- 
presses the effect for 10 minutes.) 
Material Component: Gold dust worth 


25 gp. 
Arcane Mark 


Universal 

Level: Sor/Wiz 0_ 

Components: V, S ae 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 0 ft eee 

Effect: One personal rune or mark, all of 
which must fit within 1 sq. ft. 

Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 

This spell allows you to inscribe your per- 

sonal rune or mark, which can consist of 

no more than six characters. The writing 

can be visible or invisible. An arcane mark 


spell enables you to etch the rune upon 


any substance (even stone or metal) with- 

out harm to the material upon which it is 

placed. If an invisible mark is made, a 

detect magic spell causes it to glow and be 

visible, though not necessarily under- 
_standable. See invisibility, true seeing, a gem 
| of seeing, or a robe of eyes likewise allows the 
| user to see an invisible arcane mark. A read 
| magic spell reveals the words, if any. The 
mark cannot be dispelled, but it can be 
removed by the caster or by an erase spell. 
If an arcane mark is placed on a living 
being, normal wear gradually causes the 
effect to fade in about a month. 

Arcane mark must be cast on an object 
prior to casting Drawmij’s instant summons 
on the same object (see that spell descrip- 
tion for details). 


t 


Arcane Sight 

| Divination 

| Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 
Target: You_ 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


This spell makes your eyes glow blue and 
allows you to see magical auras within 120 
feet of you. The effect is similar to that of 
a detect magic spell, but arcane sight does 


not require concentration and discerns 
aura location and power more quickly. 

You know the location and power of all 
magical auras within your sight. An aura’s 
power depends on a spell’s functioning 
level or an item’s caster level, as noted in 
the description of the detect magic spell 
(page 219). If the items or creatures bear- 
ing the auras are in line of sight, you can 
make Spellcraft skill checks to determine 
the school of magic involved in each. 
(Make one check per aura; DC 15 + spell 
level, or 15 + one-half caster level for a 
nonspell effect.) 

If you concentrate on a specific crea- 
ture within 120 feet of you as a standard 
action, you can determine whether it has 
any spellcasting or spell-like abilities, 
whether these are arcane or divine (spell- 
like abilities register as arcane), and the 
strength of the most powerful spell or 
\spell-like ability the creature currently 
lhas available for use. In some cases, arcane 
‘sight may give a deceptively low read- 

|ing—for example, when you use it on a 
\spellcaster who has used up most of his or 
her daily spell allotment. 

Arcane sight can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Arcane Sight, Greater 


Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 


This spell functions like arcane sight, 


except that you automatically know 
which spells or magical effects are active 
upon any individual or object you see. 
Greater arcane sight doesn't let you iden- 
tify magic items. 
Unlike arcane sight, this spell cannot be 
made permanent with a permanency spell. 


Astral Projection 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9, Travel 9 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 30 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Targets: You plus one additional willing 
creature touched per two caster levels 

Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


By freeing your spirit from your physical 
body, this spell allows you to project an 
astral body onto another plane altogether. 
You can bring the astral forms of other 
willing creatures with you, provided that 
these subjects are linked in a circle with 
you at the time of the casting. These 
fellow travelers are dependent upon you 
and must accompany you at all times. If 
something happens to you during the 
journey, your companions are stranded 
wherever you left them. 


You project your astral self onto the 
Astral Plane, leaving your physical body 
behind on the Material Plane in a state of 
suspended animation. The spell projects 
an astral copy of you and all you wear or 
carry onto the Astral Plane. Since the 
Astral Plane touches upon other planes, 
you can travel astrally to any of these other | 
planes as you will. To enter one, you leave | 
the Astral Plane, forming a new physical | 
body (and equipment) on the plane of 
existence you have chosen to enter. 

While you are on the Astral Plane, your 

astral body is connected at all times to your 
physical body by a silvery cord. If the cord 
is broken, you are killed, astrally and phys- 
ically. Luckily, very few things can destroy 
a silver cord (see the Dungeon Master's Guide 
for more information). When a second 
body is formed on a different plane, the 
incorporeal silvery cord remains invisibly 
attached to the new body. If the second 
body or the astral form is slain, the cord 
simply returns to your body where it rests 
on the Material Plane, thereby reviving it 
from its state of suspended animation. 
Although astral projections are able to 
function on the Astral Plane, their actions 
affect only creatures existing on the Astral 
Plane; a physical body must be material- 
ized on other planes. 
_ You and your companions may travel 
through the Astral Plane indefinitely. 
Your bodies simply wait behind in a state 
of suspended animation until you choose 
to return your spirits to them. The spell 
lasts until you desire to end it, or until it is 
terminated by some outside means, such 
as dispel magic cast upon either the physi- 
cal body or the astral form, the breaking 
of the silver cord, or the destruction of 
your body back on the Material Plane 
(which kills you). 

Material Component: A jacinth worth at 
least 1,000 gp, plus a silver bar worth 5 gp 
for each person to be affected. 


Atonement 


‘Abjuration 

Level: Clr 5, Drd 5 
Components: V, S, M, F, DE, XP 
Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell removes the burden of evil acts 
or misdeeds from the subject. The crea- 
ture seeking atonement must be truly 
repentant and desirous of setting right its 
misdeeds. If the atoning creature com- 
mitted the evil act unwittingly or under 
some form of compulsion, atonement 
operates normally at no cost to you. How- 
ever, in the case of a creature atoning for 


201 


. 


202 


deliberate misdeeds and acts of a know- 
ing and willful nature, you must inter- 
cede with your deity (requiring you to 
expend 500 XP) in order to expunge the 
subject’s burden. Many casters first 
assign a subject of this sort a quest (see 
geas/quest) or similar penance to deter- 
mine whether the creature is truly con- 
trite before casting the atonement spell on, 
its behalf. | 
|__Atonement may be cast for one of sev- 
[eral purposes, depending on the version 
| selected. | 

Reverse Magical Alignment Change: If a 
creature has had its alignment magically 
changed, atonement returns its alignment 
to its original status at no cost in experi- 
ence points. 

Restore Class: A paladin who has lost 
her class features due to committing an 
evil act may have her paladinhood 
restored to her by this spell. _ | 

Restore Cleric or Druid Spell Powers: Al 
cleric or druid who has lost the ability to 
cast spells by incurring the anger of his 
or her deity may regain that ability by 
seeking atonement from another cleric of 
the same deity or another druid. If the 
transgression was intentional, the casting 
cleric loses 500 XP for his intercession. If 
the transgression was unintentional, he 
does not lose XP. 

Redemption or Temptation: You may cast 
this spell upon a creature of an opposing 


alignment in order to offer it a chance to_ 


change its alignment to match yours. The 
prospective subject must be present for 
the entire casting process. Upon comple- 
tion of the spell, the subject freely 
chooses whether it retains its original 
_alignment or acquiesces to your offer and 
| changes to your alignment. No duress, 
\compulsion, or magical influence can 
| force the subject to take advantage of the 
| opportunity offered if it is unwilling to 
_abandon its old alignment. This use of the 
spell does not work on outsiders or any 
creature incapable of changing its align- 
ment naturally. 

Though the spell description refers to 
evil acts, atonement can also be used on 
any creature that has performed acts 
against its alignment, whether those acts 

„are evil, good, chaotic, or lawful. 

\__ Note: Normally, changing alignment is 

lup to the player (for PCs) or the DM (for 

\NPCs). This use of atonement simply 
offers a believable way for a character to 
change his or her alignment drastically, 
suddenly, and definitively. 

Material Component: Burning incense. 

Focus: In addition to your holy symbol 
or normal divine focus, you need a set of 
prayer beads (or other prayer device, such 
as a prayer wheel or prayer book) worth at 
least 500 gp. _ 


XP Cost: When cast for the benefit of a 
creature whose guilt was the result of 
deliberate acts, the cost to you is 500 XP 
per casting (see above). 


Augury 


Divination 

Level: Clr 2 
Components: V, S, M, F 
(Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Instantaneous 


An augury can tell you whether a particu- 
lar action will bring good or bad results 
for you in the immediate future. For 
example, if a character is considering 
destroying a weird seal that closes a portal, 
an augury might determine whether that 
act is a good idea. 

| The base chance for receiving a mean- 
\ingful reply is 70% + 1% per caster level, 
[to a maximum of 90%; the DM makes the 
jroll secretly. The DM may determine 
\that a question is so straightforward that 
a successful result is automatic, or so 
‘vague as to have no chance of success. If 
the augury succeeds, you get one of four 
results: 


© Weal (if the action will probably bring 


good results). 
© Woe (for bad results). 
e Weal and woe (for both). 


è Nothing (for actions that don't have, 


especially good or bad results). 


If the spell fails, you get the “nothing” 
result. A cleric who gets the “nothing” 
result has no way to tell whether it was 
the consequence of a failed or successful 


augury. 


The augury can see into the future only, 


about half an hour, so anything that might 
happen after that does not affect the result. 
Thus, the result might not take into 
account the long-term consequences of a 
contemplated action. All auguries cast by 
the same person about the same topic use 
the same dice result as the first casting. 

Material Component: Incense worth at 
least 25 gp. 

Focus: A set of marked sticks, bones, or 
similar tokens of at least 25 gp value. 


Awaken 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 5 

Components: V, S, DE, XP 
Casting Time: 24 hours 
Range: Touch 

Target: Animal or tree touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You awaken a tree or animal to humanlike 
sentience. To succeed, you must make a 
Will save (DC 10 + the animal’s current 
HD, or the HD the tree will have once 
awakened). 

The awakened animal or tree is friendly 
toward you. You have no special empathy 
or connection with a creature you awaken, | 
although it serves you in specific tasks or | 
endeavors if you communicate your! 
desires to it. 

An awakened tree has characteristics as 
ifit were an animated object (see the Mon- 
ster Manual), except that it gains the plant 
type and its Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma scores are each 3d6. An awak- 
ened plant gains the ability to move its 
limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, 
and it has senses similar to a human’. 

An awakened animal gets 3d6 Intel- 
ligence, +1d3 Charisma, and +2 HD. Its 
type becomes magical beast (augmented 
animal). An awakened animal can't serve 
as an animal companion, familiar, or spe- 
cial mount. 

An awakened tree or animal can speak 
one language that you know, plus one 
additional language that you know per 
point of Intelligence bonus (if any). 

XP Cost: 250 XP. 


Baleful Polymorph 


Transmutation (Polymorph) 

Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature 

Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates, Will 

__ partial; see text 

a Resistance: Yes 

You force the subject to assume the form 

of a Small or smaller animal of no more 

than 1 HD. The subject takes on all the 
statistics and special abilities of an aver- 
age member of the assumed form in place 
of its own except as is normal for the 
polymorph subschool (see page 320) and | 
as follows. | 

e Allitems worn or carried by the subject 
fall to the ground in the subject's space, 
even if they could be worn or carried 
by the assumed form. 

e If the subject remains in the assumed 
form for 24 consecutive hours, it must 
attempt a Will save. If this save fails, 
the subject loses its ability to under- 
stand language, as well as all other 
memories of its previous form, and its 
Hit Dice and hit points change to 
match an average creature of its 
assumed form. These abilities and 
statistics return to normal if the effect 
is later ended. 


If the assumed form would prove fatal to 
the creature—such as if you polymorph a 
landbound subject into a fish, or an air- 
borne subject into a toad—the subject 
gains a +4 bonus on the save. 


Bane | 

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Fear, Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Clr 1 

| Components: V, S, DF 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 

| Range: 50 ft. 

Area: All enemies within 50 ft. 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Bane fills your enemies with fear and 
doubt. Each affected creature takes a —1 
penalty on attack rolls and a —1 penalty on 
saving throws against fear effects. 

Bane counters and dispels bless. 


Banishment 

Abjuration 

Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One or more extraplanar crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A banishment spell is a more powerful ver- 
sion of the dismissal spell. It enables you 
to force extraplanar creatures out of your 
(home plane. As many as 2 Hit Dice of 
| creatures per caster level can be banished. 
| You can improve the spell’s chance of suc- 
| cess by presenting at least one object or 
[substance that the target hates, fears, or 
otherwise opposes. For each such object 
or substance, you gain a +1 bonus on your 
caster level check to overcome the target’s 
spell resistance (if any), the saving throw 
DC increases by 2. For example, if this 
spell were cast on a demon that hated 
light and was vulnerable to holy water 
and cold iron weapons, you might use 
liron, holy water, and a torch in the spell. 
|The three items would give you a +3 
\bonus on your check to overcome the 
|demon’s spell resistance and add 6 to the 
spell’s save DC. 

At the DM’s option, certain rare items 
might work twice as well as a normal 
item for the purpose of the bonuses (each 
providing a +2 bonus on the caster level 
check against spell resistance and 
increasing the save DC by 4). 

Arcane Focus: Any item that is distaste- 
ful to the subject (optional, see above). 


Barkskin 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2, Rgr 2, Plant 2 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Barkskin toughens a creature's skin. The 
‘effect grants a +2 enhancement bonus to 
the creature's existing natural armor 
bonus. This enhancement bonus increases 
by 1 for every three caster levels above 
3rd, to a maximum of +5 at caster level 
12th. 

The enhancement bonus provided by 
barkskin stacks with the target’s natural 
_armor bonus, but not with other enhance- 
‘ment bonuses to natural armor. A crea- 
\ture without natural armor has an effec- 
\tive natural armor bonus of +0, much as a 
(character wearing only normal clothing 
‘has an armor bonus of +0. 


Bear’s Endurance 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

‘Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The affected creature gains greater vitality 
and stamina. The spell grants the subject a 
+4 enhancement bonus to Constitution, 
which adds the usual benefits to hit 


points, Fortitude saves, Constitution 


checks, and so forth. 

Hit points gained by a temporary 
increase in Constitution score are not 
temporary hit points. They go away when 
the subject’s Constitution drops back to 
normal. They are not lost first as tempo- 
rary hit points are (see page 146). 


Bear’s Endurance, Mass 
2 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


Mass bear’s endurance works like bear’s 
endurance, except that it affects multiple 
creatures. 


Bestow Curse 


Necromancy 
Level: Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You place a curse on the subject. Choose | 

one of the following three effects. 

e —6 decrease to an ability score (mini-| 
mum 1). | 

e —4 penalty on attack rolls, saves, ability 
checks, and skill checks. 

è Each turn, the target has a 50% chance 
to act normally; otherwise, it takes no 
action. 


You may also invent your own curse, but 
it should be no more powerful than those 
described above, and the DM has final say 
on the curse’s effect. 

The curse bestowed by this spell cannot 
be dispelled, but it can be removed with a 
break enchantment, limited wish, miracle, 
remove curse, or wish spell. 

Bestow curse counters remove curse. 


Bigby’s Clenched Fist 


Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Strength 8 
Components: V, S, F/DF 


This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except that the hand can interpose 
itself, push, or strike one opponent that 
you select. The floating hand can move as 
far as 60 feet and can attack in the same 
round. Since this hand is directed by you, 
its ability to notice or attack invisible or 
concealed creatures is no better than 
yours. 

The hand attacks once per round, and 
its attack bonus equals your caster level + 
your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma 
modifier (for a wizard, cleric, or sorcerer, 
respectively), +11 for the hand's Strength 
score (33), —1 for being Large. The hand 
deals 1d8+11 points of damage on each 
attack, and any creature struck must make | 
a Fortitude save (against this spell’s save | 
DC) or be stunned for 1 round. Directing | 
the spell to a new target is a move action. 

The clenched fist can also interpose itself 
as Bigby’s interposing hand does, or it can 
bull rush an opponent as Bigby’s forceful 
hand does, but at a +15 bonus on the 
Strength check. 

Clerics who cast this spell name it for 
their deities—Pelor’s clenched fist, for exam- 
ple. 

Arcane Focus: A leather glove. 


Bigby’s Crushing Hand 


Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9, Strength 9 
Components: V, S, M, F/DF 


This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except that the hand can interpose 
itself, push, or crush one opponent that 
you select. 

The crushing hand can grapple an oppo- 
nent like Bigby’s grasping hand does. Its 
grapple bonus equals your caster level + 
your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma 
modifier (for a wizard, cleric, or sorcerer, 

| respectively), +12 for the hand’s Strength 
score (35), +4 for being Large. The hand 
deals 2d6+12 points of damage (lethal, not 

nonlethal) on each successful grapple 
check against an opponent. 

The crushing hand can also interpose 
itself as Bigby’s interposing hand does, or it 
can bull rush an opponent as Bigby’s force- 
ful hand does, but at a +18 bonus. 

Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 

Clerics who cast this spell name it for 
their deities—St. Cuthbert’s crushing hand, 
for example. j 

Arcane Material Component: The shell of 


an egg. | 
Arcane Focus: A glove of snakeskin. 


Bigby’s Forceful Hand 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, F 


This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except that the forceful hand pursues 
and pushes away the opponent that you. 
designate. Treat this attack as a bull rush 
with a +14 bonus on the Strength check 
(+8 for Strength 27, +4 for being Large, 
and a +2 bonus for charging, which it 
always gets). The hand always moves with 
_the opponent to push that target back the 
| full distance allowed, and it has no speed 
| limit. Directing the spell to a new target is 
la move action. 
| __A very strong creature could not push 
‘the hand out of its way because the latter 
would instantly reposition itself between 
the creature and you, but an opponent 
could push the hand up against you by 
successfully bull rushing it. 
Focus: A sturdy glove made of leather or 
heavy cloth. 


Bigby’s Grasping Hand _ 
| Evocation [Force] -s 

| Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Strength 7 

| Components: V, S, F/DF 


This spell functions like Bigby’s interposing 
hand, except the hand can also grapple 
one opponent that you select. The grasping 
hand gets one grapple attack per round. 
Its attack bonus to make contact equals 
your caster level + your Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma modifier (for wiz- 
ards, clerics, and sorcerers, respectively), 
+10 for the hand’s Strength score (31), -1 


for being Large. Its grapple bonus is this 
same figure, except with a +4 modifier for 
being Large instead of -1. The hand holds 
but does not harm creatures it grapples. 
Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 

The grasping hand can also bull rush an 
opponent as Bigby’s forceful hand does, but 
at a +16 bonus on the Strength check (+10 
for Strength 31, +4 for being Large, and a 
+2 bonus for charging, which it always 
gets), or interpose itself as Bigby’s interpos- 
ing hand does. 

Clerics who cast this spell name it for 
their deities—Kord’s grasping hand, for 
example. 

Arcane Focus: A leather glove. 


Bigby’s Interposing Hand 


Evocation [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, F 

\Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: 10-ft. hand 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


Bigby’s interposing hand creates a Large 


magic hand that appears between you and | 
one opponent. This floating, disembodied 
hand then moves to remain between the! 


two of you, regardless of where you move 


lor how the opponent tries to get around. 


lit, providing cover (+4 AC) for you against 
that opponent. Nothing can fool the 
hand—it sticks with the selected oppo- 
nent in spite of darkness, invisibility, 
polymorphing, or any other attempt at 
hiding or disguise. The hand does not 
pursue an opponent, however. 


A Bigby’s hand is 10 feet long and about! 


that wide with its fingers outstretched. It 
has as many hit points as you do when 
you're undamaged, and its AC is 20 (-1 
size, +11 natural). It takes damage as a 
normal creature, but most magical effects 
that don't cause damage do not affect it. 
The hand never provokes attacks of op- 
portunity from opponents. It cannot 
push through a wall of force or enter an 
antimagic field, but it suffers the full effect 
of a prismatic wall or prismatic sphere. The 
hand makes saving throws as its caster. 
Disintegrate or a successful dispel magic 
destroys it. 

Any creature weighing 2,000 pounds or 
less that tries to push past the hand is 
slowed to half its normal speed. The hand 
cannot reduce the speed of a creature 
weighing more than 2,000 pounds, but it 
still affects the creature's attacks. 

Directing the spell to a new target is a 
move action. 

Focus: A soft glove. 


Binding 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: One minute 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One living creature 

Duration: See text (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A binding spell creates a magical restraint 
to hold a creature. The target gets an ini- 
tial saving throw only if its Hit Dice equal 
at least one-half your caster level. 

| You may have as many as six assistants 
help you with the spell. For each assistant 
who casts suggestion, your caster level for 
this casting of binding increases by 1. For 
each assistant who casts dominate animal, 
dominate person, or dominate monster, your 
caster level for this casting of binding 
increases by a number equal to one-third 
of that assistant’s level, provided that the 
spell’s target is appropriate for a binding 
spell. Since the assistants’ spells are cast 
simply to improve your caster level for 
the purpose of the binding spell, saving 
throws and spell resistance against the 
assistants’ spells are irrelevant. Your caster 
level determines whether the target gets 
an initial Will saving throw and how long 
the binding lasts. All binding spells are dis- 
missible. 

Regardless of the version of binding you 
cast, you can specify triggering condi- 
tions that end the spell and release the 
creature whenever they occur. These trig- 
gers can be as simple or elaborate as you 
desire, but the DM must agree that the 
condition is reasonable and has a likeli- 
hood of coming to pass. The conditions 
can be based on a creature’s name, iden- 
tity, or alignment but otherwise must be 
based on observable actions or qualities. 
Intangibles such as level, class, Hit Dice, 
or hit points don't qualify. For example, a 
bound creature can be released when a. 
lawful good creature approaches, but not | 
when a paladin approaches. Once the | 
spell is cast, its triggering conditions 
cannot be changed. Setting a release con- 
dition increases the save DC (assuming a 
saving throw is allowed) by 2. 

If you are casting any of the first three 
versions of binding (those with limited 
durations), you may cast additional bind- 
ing spells to prolong the effect, since the 
durations overlap. If you do so, the target 
gets a saving throw at the end of the first 
spell’s duration, even if your caster level 
was high enough to disallow an initial 
saving throw. If the creature succeeds on 
this save, all the binding spells it has 
received are broken. 


The binding spell has six versions. 
Choose one of the following versions 
when you cast the spell. 

Chaining: The subject is confined by 
restraints that generate an antipathy spell 
affecting all creatures who approach the 
subject, except you. The duration is one 
year per caster level. The subject of this 
form of binding is confined to the spot it 

| occupied when it received the spell. 

Slumber: This version causes the subject 

[to become comatose for as long as one 

| year per caster level. The subject does not 
need to eat or drink while slumbering, nor 
does it age. This form of binding is more 
difficult to cast than chaining, making it 
slightly easier to resist. Reduce the spell’s 
save DC by 1. 

Bound Slumber: This combination of 
chaining and slumber lasts for as long as 
one month per caster level. Reduce the 
save DC by 2. 


Hedged Prison: The subject is trans- 


ported to or otherwise brought within a 
confined area (such as a labyrinth) from 
which it cannot wander by any means. 
The effect is permanent. Reduce the save 
DC by 3. E | 

Metamorphosis: The subject assumes 
gaseous form, except for its head or face. 
It is held harmless in a jar or other con- 
tainer, which may be transparent if you so 
choose. The creature remains aware of its 
surroundings and can speak, but it cannot 
leave the container, attack, or use any of 
its powers or abilities. The binding is per- 
manent. The subject does not need to 
breathe, eat, or drink while metamor- 
phosed, nor does it age. Reduce the save 
DC by 4. : 

___ Minimus Containment: The subject is 

| shrunk to a height of 1 inch or even less 

| and held within some gem, jar, or similar 

| object. The binding is permanent. The sub- 

| ject does not need to breathe, eat, or drink 
while contained, nor does it age. Reduce 
the save DC by 4. 

You can’t dispel a binding spell with 
dispel magic or a similar effect, though an 
antimagic field or Mordenkainen'’s disjunction 
affects it normally. A bound extraplanar 
creature cannot be sent back to its home 
plane due to dismissal, banishment, or a 

| similar effect. oa 

| Components: The components for a 

| binding spell vary according to the ver- 

| sion of the spell, but they always include 
a continuous chanting utterance read 
from the scroll or spellbook page contain- 
ing the spell, somatic gestures, and mate- 
rials appropriate to the form of binding 
used. These components can include 
such items as miniature chains of special 
metals (silver for lycanthropes, cold iron 
for demons, and so forth), soporific herbs 
of the rarest sort (for slumber bindings), a 


bell jar of the finest crystal, and the like. 


In addition to the specially made props 
suited to the specific type of binding (cost 
500 gp), the spell requires opals worth at 
least 500 gp for each HD of the target and 
a vellum depiction or carved statuette of 
the subject to be captured. 


Blade Barrier 


Evocation [Force] 

‘Level: Clr 6, Good 6, War 6 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Wall of whirling blades up to 20 ft. 
long/level, or a ringed wall of whirling 
blades with a radius of up to 5 ft./two 
levels; either form 20 ft. high 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Reflex half or Reflex 
negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


lAn immobile, vertical curtain of whirling 
‘blades shaped of pure force springs into 


jexistence. Any creature passing through 


ithe wall takes 1d6 points of damage per 
caster level (maximum 15d6), with a 
Reflex save for half damage. 

If you evoke the barrier so that it ap- 
pears where creatures are, each creature 


takes damage as if passing through the) 
wall. Each such creature can avoid the. 
wall (ending up on the side of its choice) 


and thus take no damage by making a suc- 
cessful Reflex save. 


A blade barrier provides cover (+4 bonus 


to AC, +2 bonus on Reflex saves) against 
attacks made through it. 


Blasphemy 


Evocation [Evil, Sonic] 

Level: Clr 7, Evil 7 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 40 ft. 

Area: Nonevil creatures in a 40-ft-radius 
spread centered on you 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Any nonevil creature within the area of a 
blasphemy spell suffers the following ill 
effects. 


HD Effect 
Equal to caster level Dazed 
Up to caster level —1 Weakened, dazed 
Up to caster level —5 Paralyzed, 
weakened, dazed 
Killed, paralyzed, 
weakened, dazed 


Up to caster level -10 


The effects are cumulative and concur- 
rent. No saving throw is allowed against 
these effects. 


Dazed: The creature can take no actions for 
1 round, though it defends itself normally. 

Weakened: The creature's Strength score 
decreases by 2d6 points for 2d4 rounds. 

Paralyzed: The creature is paralyzed and 
helpless for 1d10 minutes. 

Killed: Living creatures die. Undead 
creatures are destroyed. } 

Furthermore, if you are on your home| 
plane when you cast this spell, nonevil | 
extraplanar creatures within the area are 
instantly banished back to their home 
planes. Creatures so banished cannot return 
for at least 24 hours. This effect takes place 
regardless of whether the creatures hear the 
blasphemy. The banishment effect allows a 
Will save (at a —4 penalty) to negate. 

Creatures whose Hit Dice exceed your 
caster level are unaffected by blasphemy. 


Bless 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Clr 1, Pal 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 50 ft. 

Area: The caster and all allies within a 
50-ft. burst, centered on the caster 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Bless fills your allies with courage. Each 

ally gains a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls 

and on saving throws against fear effects. 
Bless counters and dispels bane. 


Bless Water 


Transmutation [Good] 

Level: Clr 1, Pal 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 

Target: Flask of water touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This transmutation imbues a flask (1 pint) | 
of water with positive energy, turning it | 
into holy water (page 128). 

Material Component: 5 pounds of pow- 
dered silver (worth 25 gp). 


Bless Weapon 


Transmutation 

Level: Pal 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Weapon touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This transmutation makes a weapon strike 
true against evil foes. The weapon is treated 
as having a +1 enhancement bonus for the 
purpose of bypassing the damage reduc- 
tion of evil creatures or striking evil incor- 
poreal creatures (though the spell doesn't 
grant an actual enhancement bonus). The 
weapon also becomes good, which means 
it can bypass the damage reduction of cer- 
tain creatures, particularly evil outsiders. 
(This effect overrides and suppresses any 
other alignment the weapon might have.) 
Individual arrows or bolts can be trans- 
muted, but affected projectile weapons 
(such as bows) don't confer the benefit to 
the projectiles they shoot. 

In addition, all critical hit rolls against 
evil foes are automatically successful, so 
every threat is a critical hit. This last effect 
does not apply to any weapon that already 
has a magical effect related to critical hits, 
such as a keen weapon or a vorpal sword. 


Blight 

Necromancy 

Level: Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: One plant or plant creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude half; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell withers a single plant of any size. 
An affected plant creature takes 1d6 points 
of damage per level (maximum 15d6) and 
may attempt a Fortitude saving throw for 
half damage. A plant that isn't a creature 
(such as a tree or shrub) doesn't receive a 
save and immediately withers and dies. 

This spell has no effect on the soil or 
surrounding plant life. 


Blindness/Deafness 

Necromancy 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: Permanent (D) 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You call upon the powers of unlife to 
render the subject blinded or deafened, as 
you choose. 


Blink 

Transmutation 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 


Se e Mh 


Like a blink dog (see the Monster 
Manual), you “blink” back and forth 
between the Material Plane and the 
Ethereal Plane. You look as though you're 
winking in and out of reality very 
quickly and at random. 

Blinking has several effects, as follows. 

Physical attacks against you have a 50% 
miss chance, and the Blind-Fight feat 
doesn't help opponents, since you're ethe- 
real and not merely invisible. If the 
attack is capable of striking ethereal crea- 
tures, the miss chance is only 20% (for 
concealment). If the attacker can see 
invisible creatures, the miss chance is 
also only 20%. (For an attacker who can 
both see and strike ethereal creatures, 
there is no miss chance.) Likewise, your 
own attacks have a 20% miss chance, 
since you sometimes go ethereal just as 
you are about to strike. 

Any individually targeted spell has a 
50% chance to fail against you while 
you're blinking unless your attacker can 
target invisible, ethereal creatures. Your 
own spells have a 20% chance to activate 
just as you go ethereal, in which case they 
typically do not affect the Material Plane. 

While blinking, you take only half 
damage from area attacks (but full damage 
from those that extend onto the Ethereal 
Plane). You strike as an invisible creature 
(with a +2 bonus on attack rolls), denying 
your target any Dexterity bonus to AC. 
You take only half damage from falling, 
since you fall only while you are material. 

While blinking, you can step through 
(but not see through) solid objects. For 
each 5 feet of solid material you walk 
through, there is a 50% chance that you 
become material. If this occurs, you are 
shunted off to the nearest open space and 
take 1d6 points of damage per 5 feet so 
traveled. You can move at only three-quar- 
ters speed (because movement on the 
Ethereal Plane is at half speed, and you 
spend about half your time there and half 
your time material.) 

Since you spend about half your time 
on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and 
even attack ethereal creatures. You inter- 
act with ethereal creatures roughly the 
same way you interact with material ones. 
For instance, your spells against ethereal 
creatures are 20% likely to activate just as 
you go material and be lost. 

An ethereal creature is invisible, incor- 
poreal, and capable of moving in any 
direction, even up or down. As an incor- 
poreal creature, you can move through 
solid objects, including living creatures. 
An ethereal creature can see and hear the 
Material Plane, but everything looks gray 
and insubstantial. Sight and hearing on 
the Material Plane are limited to 60 feet. 
Force effects (such as magic missile and 
wall of force) and abjurations affect you 


wens PSR DIG Saree ve 
< a Ee Dos S eee 


ay i: 


normally. Their effects extend onto the 
Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, 
but not vice versa. An ethereal creature 
can't attack material creatures, and spells 
you cast while ethereal affect only other 
ethereal things. Certain material crea- 
tures or objects have attacks or effects that 
work on the Ethereal Plane (such as the 
basilisk and its gaze attack). Treat other 
ethereal creatures and objects as material. 


Blur 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 2,Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject’s outline appears blurred, 
shifting and wavering. This distortion 
grants the subject concealment (20% miss 
chance). 

A see invisibility spell does not counter- 
act the blur effect, but a true seeing spell 
does. 

Opponents that cannot see the subject 
ignore the spell’s effect (though fighting 
an unseen opponent carries penalties of 
its own; see page 151). 


The subject of a blur spell. 


Break Enchantment 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 4, Clr 5, Luck 5, Pal 4, 
Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Up to one creature per level, all | 
within 30 ft. of each other 
_Duration: Instantaneous 
| Saving Throw: See text 
| Spell Resistance: No 


This spell frees victims from enchant- 
ments, transmutations, and curses. Break 
enchantment can reverse even an instanta- 
neous effect, such as flesh to stone. For each 
such effect, you make a caster level check 
(1d20 + caster level, maximum +15) 
against a DC of 11 + caster level of the 
effect. Success means that the creature is 
free of the spell, curse, or effect. For a 
cursed magic item, the DC is 25. 
pelled by dispel magic, break enchantment 
works only if that spell is 5th level or 
lower. For instance, bestow curse cannot be 
dispelled by dispel magic, but break enchant- 
ment can dispel it. 

If the effect comes from some perma- 
nent magic item, such as a cursed sword, 
break enchantment does not remove the 
curse from the item, but it does frees the 
victim from the items effects. For 
example, a cursed item can change the 
alignment of its user. Break enchantment 
allows the victim to be rid of the item and 
negates the alignment change, but the 
item's curse is intact and affects the next 
creature to pick up the item—even if it’s 

_the recent recipient of the break enchant- 
[ment spell. 


Bull's Strength 
| Transmutation 
Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 2, Sor/Wiz 2, 
Strength 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
| Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 
|The subject becomes stronger. The spell 
(grants a +4 enhancement bonus to 
Strength, adding the usual benefits to 
melee attack rolls, melee damage rolls, 
and other uses of the Strength modifier. 
Arcane Material Component: A few hairs, 
or a pinch of dung, from a bull. 


Bull’s Strength, Mass 
Transmutation 

Level: Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like bull’s strength, 
except that it affects multiple creatures. 


Burning Hands 


Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Fire 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
(Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 15 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Reflex half 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A cone of searing flame shoots from your 
fingertips. Any creature in the area of the 
flames takes 1d4 points of fire damage per 
caster level (maximum 5d4). Flammable 
\materials such as cloth, paper, parchment, 
‘and thin wood burn if the flames touch 
(them. A character can extinguish burning 


litems as a full-round action. 


Call Lightning 


‘Evocation [Electricity] 

Level: Drd 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: One or more 30-ft-long vertical 
lines of lightning 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Reflex half 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Immediately upon completion of the 
spell, and once per round thereafter, you 
may call down a 5-foot-wide, 30-foot-long, 
vertical bolt of lightning that deals 3d6, 
points of electricity damage. The bolt of 
lightning flashes down in a vertical stroke 
at whatever target point you choose 
within the spell’s range (measured from 
your position at the time). Any creature in 
the target square or in the path of the bolt 
is affected. 

You need not call a bolt of lightning 
immediately; other actions, even spell- 
casting, can be performed. However, each 
round after the first you may use a stan- 
dard action (concentrating on the spell) to 
call a bolt. You may call a total number of 
bolts equal to your caster level (maximum 
10 bolts). 

If you are outdoors and in a stormy 
area—a rain shower, clouds and wind, hot 
and cloudy conditions, or even a tornado 
(including a whirlwind formed by a 
djinni or an air elemental of at least Large 
size; see the Monster Manual)—each bolt 
deals 3d10 points of electricity damage 
instead of 3d6. 

This spell functions indoors or under- 
ground but not underwater. 


Call Lightning Storm 


Evocation [Electricity] 
Level: Drd 5 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 


This spell functions like call lightning, 

except that each bolt deals 5dé points of 
electricity damage (or 5d10 if created out- | 
doors in a stormy area), and you may calla) 
maximum of 15 bolts. 


Calm Animals 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Animal 1, Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Animals within 30 ft. of each 
other 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell soothes and quiets animals, ren- 
dering them docile and harmless. Only 
ordinary animals (those with Intelligence 
scores of 1 or 2) can be affected by this 
spell. All the subjects must be of the same 
kind, and no two may be more than 30 
feet apart. The maximum number of Hit 
‘Dice of animals you can affect is equal to 
2d4 + caster level. A dire animal or an 
animal trained to attack or guard is 
allowed a saving throw; other animals are 
not. (A druid could calm a normal bear or 
wolf with little trouble, but it’s more diffi- 
cult to affect a trained guard dog.) 

The affected creatures remain where 
they are and do not attack or flee. They are 
not helpless and defend themselves nor- 
mally if attacked. Any threat (such as fire, 
a hungry predator, or an imminent attack) 
breaks the spell on the threatened crea- 
tures. 


Calm Emotions 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 

__ Affecting] 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Law 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Area: Creatures in a 20-ft-radius spread 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell calms agitated creatures. You 
have no control over the affected crea- 
tures, but calm emotions can stop raging 
creatures from fighting or joyous ones 
from reveling. Creatures so affected can- 
not take violent actions (although they 
can defend themselves) or do anything 
destructive. Any aggressive action against 


or damage dealt to a calmed creature 
immediately breaks the spell on all 
calmed creatures. 

This spell automatically suppresses 
(but does not dispel) any morale bonuses 
granted by spells such as bless, good hope, 
and rage, as well as negating a bard’s ability 
to inspire courage or a barbarian’s rage 
ability. It also suppresses any fear effects, 

and removes the confused condition from. 
all targets. While the spell lasts, a sup- 
pressed spell or effect has no effect. When 
T : =s 

ithe calm emotions spell ends, the original 
spell or effect takes hold of the creature 
again, provided that its duration has not 
expired in the meantime. 


Cat’s Grace 

Transmutation 

Level: Brd 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level | 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) | 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The transmuted creature becomes more 
graceful, agile, and coordinated. The spell 
grants a +4 enhancement bonus to Dex- 
terity, adding the usual benefits to AC, 
Reflex saves, and other uses of the Dex- 
terity modifier. 


Material Component: A pinch of cat fur, 


Cat’s Grace, Mass ad 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
_Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


| This spell functions like cat’s grace, except 
| that it affects multiple creatures. 


Cause Fear 
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Death 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature with 5 or 
fewer HD = 
| Duration: 1d4 rounds or 1 round; see 
| text 
| Saving Throw: Will partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The affected creature becomes fright- 
ened. If the subject succeeds on a Will 
save, it is shaken for 1 round. Creatures 
with 6 or more Hit Dice are immune to 
this effect. 

Cause fear counters and dispels remove 
fear. 


Chain Lightning 


Evocation [Electricity] 

Level: Air 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Targets: One primary target, plus one 
secondary target/level (each of which 
must be within 30 ft. of the primary 
target) 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Reflex half 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell creates an electrical discharge 
that begins as a single stroke commenc- 
ing from your fingertips. Unlike lightning 
bolt, chain lightning strikes one object or 
creature initially, then arcs to other 
targets. 

The bolt deals 1d6 points of electricity 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6) 
ito the primary target. After it strikes, 
\lightning can arc to a number of second- 


lary targets equal to your caster level 


(maximum 20). The secondary bolts each 
strike one target and deal half as much 
‘damage as the primary one did (rounded 
down). For example, a 19th-level sor- 
cerer generates a primary bolt (19d6 


points of damage) and as many as nine- 
teen secondary bolts (each of which. 
deals half as much damage as the pri-| 


mary bolt dealt). Each target can attempt 


ia Reflex saving throw for half damage. 


‘You choose secondary targets as you like, 
but they must all be within 30 feet of the 
primary target, and no target can be 
struck more than once. You can choose 
to affect fewer secondary targets than 
the maximum (to avoid allies in the area, 
for example). 


Focus: A bit of fur; a piece of amber, 


glass, or a crystal rod; plus one silver pin 
for each of your caster levels. 


Changestaff 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 7 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Touch 

Target: Your touched staff 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You change a specially prepared quarter- 
staff into a Huge treantlike creature, 
about 24 feet tall. When you plant the end 
of the staff in the ground and speak a spe- 
cial command to conclude the casting of 
the spell, your staff turns into a creature 
that looks and fights just like a treant (see 
the Monster Manual). The staff-treant 
defends you and obeys any spoken com- 


mands. However, it is by no means a true 
treant; it cannot converse with actual tre- 
ants or control trees. If the staff-treant is 
reduced to 0 or fewer hit points, it crum- 
bles to powder and the staff is destroyed. 
Otherwise, the staff returns to its normal 
form when the spell duration expires (or 
when the spell is dismissed), and it can be | 
used as the focus for another casting of | 
the spell. The staff-treant is always at full | 
strength when created, despite any 
wounds it may have incurred the last time 
it appeared. 

Focus: The quarterstaff, which must be 
specially prepared. The staff must be a 
sound limb cut from an ash, oak, or yew, 
then cured, shaped, carved, and polished 
(a process requiring twenty-eight days). 
You cannot adventure or engage in other 
strenuous activity during the shaping and 
carving of the staff. 


Chaos Hammer 


Evocation [Chaotic] 

Level: Chaos 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius burst 

Duration: Instantaneous (1d6 rounds); 
| see text 

Saving Throw: Will partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You unleash chaotic power to smite your 
enemies. The power takes the form of a 
multicolored explosion of leaping, rico- 
cheting energy. Only lawful and neutral 
(not chaotic) creatures are harmed by the 
spell. 

The spell deals 1d8 points of damage 
per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to 
lawful creatures (or 1d6 points of damage 
per caster level, maximum 10d6, to lawful 
outsiders) and slows them for 1dé rounds. 
(See the slow spell.) A successful Will save 
reduces the damage by half and negates 
the slow effect. 

The spell deals only half damage, 
against creatures who are neither lawful | 
nor chaotic, and they are not slowed. Such | 
a creature can reduce the damage by half 
again (down to one-quarter) with a suc- 
cessful Will save. 


Charm Animal 


Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Target: One animal 


This spell functions like charm person, 
except that it affects a creature of the 
animal type. See the Monster Manual for 
more information on creature types. 


Charm Monster 
Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: One day/level 


This spell functions like charm person, 
except that the effect is not restricted by 
creature type or size. 


Charm Monster, Mass | 
| Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] | 
| Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V 
Targets: One or more creatures, no two 
of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: One day/level 


This spell functions like charm monster, 
except that mass charm monster affects a 
number of creatures whose combined 
HD do not exceed twice your level, or at 


least one creature regardless of HD. If 


there are more potential targets than you 
can affect, you choose them one at a time 
until you choose a creature with too many, 
HD. 


Charm Person 
Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One humanoid creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This charm makes a humanoid creature 
_regard you as its trusted friend and ally 
| (treat the target’s attitude as friendly; see 
| Influencing NPC Attitudes, page 72). If 
| the creature is currently being threatened 
or attacked by you or your allies, however, 
it receives a +5 bonus on its saving throw. 

The spell does not enable you to con- 
trol the charmed person as if it were an 
automaton, but it perceives your words 
and actions in the most favorable way. You 
can try to give the subject orders, but you 
must win an opposed Charisma check to 
convince it to do anything it wouldn't 
ordinarily do. (Retries are not allowed.) 
| An affected creature never obeys suicidal 
lor obviously harmful orders, but a 
(charmed fighter, for example, might 

believe you if you assured him that the 
only chance to save your life is for him to 
hold back an onrushing red dragon for 
“just a few seconds.” Any act by you or 
your apparent allies that threatens the 
charmed person breaks the spell. You must 
speak the person's language to communi- 
cate your commands, or else be good at 
pantomiming. 


t 


Chill Metal 

Transmutation [Cold] 

Level: Drd 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: Metal equipment of one 
creature/two levels, no two of which 
can be more than 30 ft. apart; or 25 lb. of 
metal/level, none of which can be more 
than 30 ft. away from any of the rest 

‘Duration: 7 rounds 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


Chill metal makes metal extremely cold. 
Unattended, nonmagical metal gets no 
saving throw. Magical metal is allowed a 
saving throw against the spell. (Magic 
items’ saving throws are covered in the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide.) An item in a crea- 
\ture’s possession uses the creature's saving 
\throw bonus unless its own is higher. 
|__A creature takes cold damage if its 
jequipment is chilled. It takes full damage if 
lits armor is affected or if it is holding, 
‘touching, wearing, or carrying metal 
weighing one-fifth of its weight. The crea- 
ture takes minimum damage (1 point or 2 
points; see the table) if it’s not wearing 


metal armor and the metal that it’s carrying 
weighs less than one-fifth of its weight. 
On the first round of the spell, the 


metal becomes chilly and uncomfortable 


ito touch but deals no damage. The same. 


effect also occurs on the last round of the 

ispell’s duration. During the second (and 
also the next-to-last) round, icy coldness 
causes pain and damage. In the third, 
fourth, and fifth rounds, the metal is 
freezing cold, causing more damage, as 
shown on the table below. 


Metal 
Round Temperature Damage 
1 Cold None 
2 Icy 1d4 points 
355 Freezing 2d4 points 
6 Icy 1d4 points 
7 Cold None 


Any heat intense enough to damage the 
creature negates cold damage from the 
spell (and vice versa) on a point-for-point 
basis. For example, if the damage roll 
from a chill metal spell indicates 5 points 
of cold damage and the subject plunges 
through a wall of fire in the same round 
and takes 8 points of fire damage, it winds 
up taking no cold damage and only 3 
points of fire damage. Underwater, chill 
metal deals no damage, but ice immedi- 
ately forms around the affected metal, 
making it more buoyant. 

Chill metal counters and dispels heat 
metal. 


Chill Touch 

Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: Creature or creatures touched 
(up to one/level) 

Duration: Instantaneous | 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial or Will | 
negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A touch from your hand, which glows with 
blue energy, disrupts the life force of living 
creatures. Each touch channels negative 
energy that deals 1d6 points of damage. The 
touched creature also takes 1 point of 
Strength damage unless it makes a success- 
ful Fortitude saving throw. You can use this 
melee touch attack up to one time per level. 

An undead creature you touch takes no 
damage of either sort, but it must make a 
successful Will saving throw or flee as if 
panicked for 1d4 rounds +1 round per 
caster level. 


Circle of Death _ 
Necromancy [Death] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 
(Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
‘Area: Several living creatures within a 

40-ft.-radius burst 

Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A circle of death snuffs out the life force of 
living creatures, killing them instantly. 

The spell slays 1d4 HD worth of living 
creatures per caster level (maximum 
20d4). Creatures with the fewest HD are 
affected first; among creatures with equal 
HD, those who are closest to the burst’s 
point of origin are affected first. No crea- 
ture of 9 or more HD can be affected, and 
Hit Dice that are not sufficient to affect a | 
creature are wasted. | 

Material Component: The powder of a! 
crushed black pearl with a minimum 
value of 500 gp. 


Clairaudience/Clairvoyance 
Divination (Scrying) 
Level: Brd 3, Knowledge 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Effect: Magical sensor 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


Claivaudience/clairvoyance creates an invis- 
ible magical sensor at a specific location 


209 


. 


210 


that enables you to hear or see (your 
choice) almost as if you were there. You 
don't need line of sight or line of effect, 
but the locale must be known—a place 
familiar to you or an obvious one, such as 
behind a door, around a corner, or ina 
grove of trees. Once you have selected the 
locale, the sensor doesn’t move, but you 
can rotate it in all directions to view the 
_area as desired. Unlike other scrying 
| spells, this spell does not allow magically 
[or supernaturally enhanced senses to 
{work through it. If the chosen locale is 
magically dark, you see nothing. If it is 
naturally pitch black, you can see in a 10- 
foot radius around the center of the spell’s 
effect. Clairaudience/clairvoyance functions 
only on the plane of existence you are cur- 
rently occupying. 
Arcane Focus: A small horn (for hearing) 
or a glass eye (for seeing). 


Cloak of Chaos | 


Abjuration [Chaotic] 

Level: Chaos 8, Clr 8 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 20 ft. 

Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.- 
radius burst centered on you 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


A random pattern of color surrounds the 
subjects, protecting them from attacks, 
granting them resistance to spells cast by, 
lawful creatures, and causing lawful crea- 
tures that strike the subjects to become 
confused. This abjuration has four effects. 

First, each warded creature gains a +4 

| deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resist- 
lance bonus on saves. Unlike protection 
| from law, the benefit of this spell applies 
[against all attacks, not just against attacks 
by lawful creatures. 

Second, each warded creature gains 
spell resistance 25 against lawful spells 
and spells cast by lawful creatures. 

Third, the abjuration blocks possession 
and mental influence, just as protection 
from law does. 

Finally, ifa lawful creature succeeds on 

a melee attack against a warded creature, 

ithe offending attacker is confused for 1 

| round (Will save negates, as with the con- 

| fusion spell, but against the save DC of 
cloak of chaos). 

Focus: A tiny reliquary containing some 
sacred relic, such as a scrap of parchment 
from a chaotic text. The reliquary costs at 
least 500 gp. 


Clone 


Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M, F 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: One clone 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell makes an inert duplicate of a 

creature. If the original individual has 

‘been slain, its soul immediately transfers 
to the clone, creating a replacement (pro- 
vided that the soul is free and willing to 
‘return; see Bringing Back the Dead, page 
171). The original’s physical remains, 

should they still exist, become inert and 

cannot thereafter be restored to life. If the 

original creature has reached the end of 

its natural life span (that is, it has died of 

natural causes), any cloning attempt fails. 

To create the duplicate, you must have 

a piece of flesh (not hair, nails, scales, or 
ithe like) with a volume of at least 1 cubic 
linch that was taken from the original 
\creature's living body. The piece of flesh 
ineed not be fresh, but it must be kept 
\from rotting (for example, by the gentle 
repose spell). Once the spell is cast, the 
‘duplicate must be grown in a laboratory 

for 2d4 months. 
When the clone is completed, the origi- 


nal’s soul enters it immediately, if that 
creature is already dead. The clone is phys-. 
ically identical with the original and pos- 


sesses the same personality and memories 


las the original. In other respects, treat the 


iclone as if it were the original character 
raised from the dead, including the loss of 
one level or 2 points of Constitution (if the 
original was a 1st-level character). If this 
Constitution adjustment would give the 
clone a Constitution score of 0, the spell 
fails. If the original creature has lost levels 


since the flesh sample was taken and died. 


at a lower level than the clone would oth- 
erwise be, the clone is one level below the 
level at which the original died. 

The spell duplicates only the original’s 
body and mind, not its equipment. 

A duplicate can be grown while the 
original still lives, or when the original 
soul is unavailable, but the resulting body 
is merely a soulless bit of inert flesh, 
which rots if not preserved. 

Material Component: The piece of flesh 
and various laboratory supplies (cost 
1,000 gp). 

Focus: Special laboratory equipment 
(cost 500 gp). 


Cloudkill 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius, 
20 ft. high 


Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell generates a bank of fog, similar 
to a fog cloud, except that its vapors are yel- 
lowish green and poisonous. These vapors 
automatically kill any living creature with | 
3 or fewer HD (no save). A living creature | 
with 4 to 6 HD is slain unless it succeeds | 
on a Fortitude save (in which case it takes 
1d4 points of Constitution damage on 
your turn each round while in the cloud). 
A living creature with 6 or more HD takes 
1d4 points of Constitution damage on 
your turn each round while in the cloud 
(a successful Fortitude save halves this 
damage). Holding one’s breath doesn't 
help, but creatures immune to poison are 
unaffected by the spell. 

Unlike a fog cloud, the cloudkill moves 
away from you at 10 feet per round, 
rolling along the surface of the ground. 
Figure out the cloud’s new spread each 
round based on its new point of origin, 
which is 10 feet farther away from the 
point of origin where you cast the spell. 
__ Because the vapors are heavier than air, 
they sink to the lowest level of the land, 
even pouring down den or sinkhole open- 
ings; thus, the spell is ideal for slaying hives 
of giant ants, for example. It cannot pene- 
trate liquids, nor can it be cast underwater. 


Color Spray 


Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 15 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous; see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A vivid cone of clashing colors springs 
forth from your hand, causing creatures 
to become stunned, perhaps also blinded, 
and possibly knocking them uncon- 
scious. Each creature within the cone is 
affected according to its Hit Dice. | 

2 HD or less: The creature is uncon- 
scious, blinded, and stunned for 2d4 
rounds, then blinded and stunned for 1d4 
rounds, and then stunned for 1 round. 
(Only living creatures are knocked 
unconscious.) 

3 or 4 HD: The creature is blinded and 
stunned for 1d4 rounds, then stunned for 
1 round. 

5 or more HD: The creature is stunned 
for 1 round. 

Sightless creatures are not affected by 
color spray. 

Material Component: A pinch each of 
powder or sand that is colored red, yellow, 


and blue. 


Command 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language- 
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 1 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 round 
| Saving Throw: Will negates 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| You give the subject a single command, 
which it obeys to the best of its ability at 
its earliest opportunity. You may select 
from the following options. 

Approach: On its turn, the subject 
moves toward you as quickly and directly 
as possible for 1 round. The creature may 
do nothing but move during its turn, and 
it provokes attacks of opportunity for this 
movement as normal. 


Drop: On its turn, the subject drops_ 


whatever it is holding. It can't pick up any, 
dropped item until its next turn. | 

Fall: On its turn, the subject falls to the 
ground and remains prone for 1 round. It 
may act normally while prone but takes 
any appropriate penalties. 

Flee: On its turn, the subject moves 
away from you as quickly as possible for 1 
round. It may do nothing but move during 
its turn, and it provokes attacks of oppor- 
tunity for this movement as normal. | 

Halt: The subject stands in place for 1, 
round. It may not take any actions but is 
not considered helpless. | 

If the subject can't carry out your com- 
mand on its next turn, the spell automati- 
cally fails. 


Command, Greater 
| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language- 
|__Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 
| Level: Clr 5 
Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: 1 round/level 


This spell functions like command, except 

that up to one creature per level may be 

affected, and the activities_continue 
beyond 1 round. At the start of each com- 
_manded creature's action after the first, it 
| gets another Will save to attempt to break 
| free from the spell. Each creature must 
| receive the same command. 


Command Plants 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 4, Plant 4, Rgr 3 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Up to 2 HD/level of plant crea- 


than 30 ft. apart 


Duration: One day/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell allows you some degree of con- 
trol over one or more plant creatures. 
Affected plant creatures can understand 
you, and they perceive your words and 
actions in the most favorable way (treat 
their attitude as friendly). They will not 
attack you while the spell lasts. You can 
‘try to give a subject orders, but you must 
win an opposed Charisma check to con- 
vince it to do anything it wouldn't ordi- 
narily do. (Retries are not allowed.) A 
commanded plant never obeys suicidal or 
obviously harmful orders, but it might be 
convinced that something very danger- 
ous is worth doing (see charm person). 

You can affect a number of plant crea- 
‚tures whose combined level or HD do not 
‘exceed twice your level. 


Command Undead 


 Necromancy 

‘Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One undead creature 
Duration: One day/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell allows you some degree of con- 


trol over an undead creature. Assuming 
the subject is intelligent, it perceives your 
words and actions in the most favorable 
way (treat its attitude as friendly). It will 
not attack you while the spell lasts. You 
can try to give the subject orders, but you 
must win an opposed Charisma check to 


convince it to do anything it wouldn't 


ordinarily do. (Retries are not allowed.) 
An intelligent commanded undead never 
obeys suicidal or obviously harmful 
orders, but it might be convinced that 
something very dangerous is worth doing 
(see charm person). 

A nonintelligent undead creature 
(such as a skeleton or zombie) gets no 
saving throw against this spell. When 
you control a mindless being, you can 
communicate only basic commands, 
such as “come here,” “go there,” “fight,” 
“stand still,” and so on. Nonintelligent 
undead wont resist suicidal or obviously 
harmful orders. 

Any act by you or your apparent allies 
that threatens the commanded undead 
(regardless of its Intelligence) breaks 
the spell. 

Your commands are not telepathic. The 
undead creature must be able to hear you. 

Material Component: A shred of raw 
meat and a splinter of bone. 


Commune 


Divination 

Level: Clr 5 

Components: V, S, M, DF, XP 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 round/level 


You contact your deity—or agents there- | 
of—and ask questions that can be an- 
swered by a simple yes or no. (A cleric of 
no particular deity contacts a philosophi- 
cally allied deity.) You are allowed one 
such question per caster level. The an- 
swers given are correct within the limits 
of the entity’s knowledge. “Unclear” is a 
legitimate answer, because powerful 
beings of the Outer Planes are not neces- 
sarily omniscient. In cases where a one- 
word answer would be misleading or con- 
trary to the deity’s interests, the DM 
should give a short phrase (five words or 
less) as an answer instead. 

The spell, at best, provides information 
to aid character decisions. The entities 
contacted structure their answers to fur- 
ther their own purposes. If you lag, dis- 
cuss the answers, or go off to do anything 
else, the spell ends. 
| Material Component: Holy (or unholy) 
water and incense. 

XP Cost: 100 XP. 


Commune with Nature 


Divination 

Level: Animal 5, Drd 5, Rgr 4 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You become one with nature, attaining 

knowledge of the surrounding territory. 

You instantly gain knowledge of as many 

as three facts from among the following 

subjects: the ground or terrain, plants, 

minerals, bodies of water, people, general | 
animal population, presence of woodland | 
creatures, presence of powerful unnatural | 
creatures, or even the general state of the 

natural setting. For example, you could 

determine the location of any powerful 

undead creatures, the location of all major 

sources of safe drinking water, and the 

location of any buildings (which register 

as blind spots). 

In outdoor settings, the spell operates 
in a radius of 1 mile per caster level. In 
natural underground settings—caves, 
caverns, and the like—the radius is lim- 
ited to 100 feet per caster level. The spell 
does not function where nature has been 
replaced by construction or settlement, 
such as in dungeons and towns. 


Comprehend Languages 
Divination 

Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 10 min./level 


| You can understand the spoken words of 
creatures or read otherwise incomprehen- 
sible written messages. In either case, you 
| must touch the creature or the writing. 
The ability to read does not necessarily 
impart insight into the material, merely 
its literal meaning. The spell enables you 
to understand or read an unknown lan- 
guage, not speak or write it. 

Written material can be read at the 
rate of one page (250 words) per minute. 
Magical writing cannot be read, though 
the spell reveals that it is magical, but 
comprehend languages is often useful 
when deciphering treasure maps. This 
spell can be foiled by certain warding 
magic (such as the secret page and illusory 
script spells). It does not decipher codes 
or reveal messages concealed in other- 
wise normal text. 

Comprehend languages can be made per- 
manent with a permanency spell. 

Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 
soot and a few grains of salt. 


Cone of Cold 
Evocation [Cold] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5, Water 6 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 

| Area: Cone-shaped burst 

| Duration: Instantaneous 

| Saving Throw: Reflex half 

| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| Cone of cold creates an area of extreme 
cold, originating at your hand and extend- 
ing outward in a cone. It drains heat, deal- 
ing 1d6 points of cold damage per caster 
level (maximum 15d6). 

Arcane Material Component: A very small 
crystal or glass cone. 


Confusion =n 

| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 

| Affecting] 

| Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4, Trickery 4 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: All creatures in a 15-ft. radius 

burst 

Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell causes the targets to become 
confused, making them unable to inde- 
pendently determine what they will do. 
Roll on the following table at the begin- 
ning of each subject's turn each round to 
see what the subject does in that round. 


d% Behavior 
01-10 Attack caster with melee or 
ranged weapons (or close with 
caster if attack is not possible). 
| 11-20 Act normally. 
_ 21-50 Do nothing but babble 
incoherently. 
51-70 Flee away from caster at top 
possible speed. 
71-100 Attack nearest creature (for this 
purpose, a familiar counts as part 
of the subject’s self). 


A confused character who can't carry out 
ithe indicated action does nothing but 
‘babble incoherently. Attackers are not 
lat any special advantage when attacking 


la confused character. Any confused charac- 


liter who is attacked automatically 
attacks its attackers on its next turn, as 
long as it is still confused when its turn 
comes. Note that a confused character 
will not make attacks of opportunity 
against any creature that it is not 


already devoted to attacking (either 


because of its most recent action or 
because it has just been attacked). 
Arcane Material Component: A set of 


‘three nut shells. 


Confusion, Lesser 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 1 

Components: V, S 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One living creature 

Duration: 1 round 


This spell causes a single creature to 
become confused for 1 round. See the con- 
fusion spell, above, to determine the exact 
effect on the subject. 


Consecrate 


Evocation [Good] 

Level: Clr 2 

Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 20-ft-radius emanation 
Duration: 2 hours/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell blesses an area with positive 
energy. Each Charisma check made to 
turn undead within this area gains a +3 
sacred bonus. Every undead creature 
entering a consecrated area suffers minor 


disruption, giving it a—1 penalty on attack 
rolls, damage rolls, and saves. Undead 
cannot be created within or summoned 
into a consecrated area. 

If the consecrated area contains an altar, 
shrine, or other permanent fixture dedi- 
cated to your deity, pantheon, or aligned 
higher power, the modifiers given above | 
are doubled (+6 sacred bonus on turning | 
checks, —2 penalties for undead in the) 
area). You cannot consecrate an area with 
a similar fixture of a deity other than your 
own patron. 

If the area does contain an altar, shrine, 
or other permanent fixture of a deity, pan- 
theon, or higher power other than your 
patron, the consecrate spell instead curses 
the area, cutting off its connection with 
the associated deity or power. This sec- 
ondary function, if used, does not also 
grant the bonuses and penalties relating 
to undead, as given above. 

Consecrate counters and dispels desecrate. 

Material Component: A vial of holy water 
and 25 gp worth (5 pounds) of silver dust, 
all of which must be sprinkled around the 
area. 


Contact Other Plane 


Divination 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Concentration 


You send your mind to another plane of 
existence (an Elemental Plane or some 
plane farther removed) in order to receive 
advice and information from powers 
there. (See the accompanying table for 
possible consequences and results of the 
attempt.) The powers reply in a language 
you understand, but they resent such con- 
tact and give only brief answers to your 
questions. (The DM answers all questions 
with “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” “irrele- 

vant,” or some other one-word answer.) | 
You must concentrate on maintaining the | 
spell (a standard action) in order to ask | 
questions at the rate of one per round. A 

question is answered by the power during 

the same round. For every two caster 

levels, you may ask one question. 

Contact with minds far removed from 
your home plane increases the probabil- 
ity that you will incur a decrease to 
Intelligence and Charisma, but the 
chance of the power knowing the 
answer, as well as the probability of the 
entity answering correctly, are likewise 
increased by moving to distant planes. 
Once the Outer Planes are reached, the 
power of the deity contacted determines 
the effects. (Random results obtained 
from the table are subject to DM 


CONTACT OTHER PLANE called on. The companion spell occurs 


Avoid Int/Cha True Don’t Random based solely on the stated conditions, 

Plane Contacted Decrease Answer Know Lie Answer regardless of whether you want it to. 
Elemental Plane DC 7/1 week 01-34 35-62 63-83 84-100 You can use only one contingency spell 

(appropriate) (DC 7/1 week) (01-68) (69-75) (76-98) (99-100) at a time; if a second is cast, the first one 
Positive/Negative Energy Plane DC 8/1 week 01-39 40-65 66-86 87-100 (if still active) is dispelled. 
Astral Plane DC 9/1 week 01-44 45-67 68-388 89-100 Material Component: That of the com- 
Outer Plane, demideity DC 10/2 weeks 01-49 50-70 71-91 92-100 panion spell, plus quicksilver and an eye- | 
Outer Plane, lesser deity DC 12/3 weeks 01-60 61-75 76-95 96-100 lash of an ogre mage, rakshasa, or similar | 
Outer Plane, intermediate deity DC 14/4 weeks 01-73 74-81 82-98 99-100 spell-using creature. 


Focus: A statuette of you carved from 
elephant ivory and decorated with gems 
(worth at least 1,500 gp). You must carry 
the focus for the contingency to work. 


Outer Plane, greater deity DC 16/5 weeks 01-88 89-90 91-99 100 

Avoid Int/Cha Decrease: You must succeed on an Intelligence check against this DC to avoid 
la decrease in Intelligence and Charisma. If the check fails, your Intelligence and Charisma scores 
each fall to 8 for the stated duration, and you become unable to cast arcane spells. If you lose 
Intelligence and Charisma, the effect strikes as soon as the first question is asked, and no 
answer is received. (The entries in parentheses are for questions that pertain to the appropriate 
Elemental Plane.) 

Results of a Successful Contact: The DM rolls d% for the result shown on the table: 

True Answer: You get a true, one-word answer. Questions that cannot be answered in this way 


Continual Flame 
Evocation [Light] 
Level: Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 


are answered randomly. 


Don’t Know: The entity tells you that it doesn’t know. 


Lie: The entity intentionally lies to you. 


Random Answer: The entity tries to lie but doesn’t know the answer, so it makes one up. 


changes, the personalities of individual 
deities, and so on.) | 

On rare occasions, this divination may, 
be blocked by an act of certain deities or 
forces. 


Contagion 

Necromancy [Evil] 

Level: Clr 3, Destruction 3, Drd 3, 
Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


| The subject contracts a disease selected 
\from the table below, which strikes 

[immediately (no incubation period). The 
DC noted is for the subsequent saves (use 
contagion’s normal save DC for the initial 
saving throw). 


Disease DC Damage 
Blinding sickness 16 1d4 Str! 
Cackle fever 16 1d6 Wis 
Filth fever 12 1d3 Dex 
| and 1d3 Con 
| Mindfire 12 1d4 Int 
| Red ache 15 1d6 Str 
\ Shakes 13 1d8 Dex 
Slimy doom 14 1d4 Con 


1 Each time a victim takes 2 or more points | 
of Strength damage from blinding 
sickness, he or she must make another 
Fortitude save (using the disease’s save 
DC) or be permanently blinded. 


See the Dungeon Master’s Guide for de- 
scriptions of each disease, as well as for 
the general effects of disease. 


Contingency 
{Evocation 
‘Level: Sor/Wiz 6 


Components: V, S, M, F 

Casting Time: At least 10 minutes; see 
text 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: One day/level (D) or until 
discharged 


You can place another spell upon your 
‚person so that it comes into effect under 


some condition you dictate when casting 
contingency. The contingency spell and the 
companion spell are cast at the same time. 
The 10-minute casting time is the mini- 
mum total for both castings; if the com- 


panion spell has a casting time longer 


than 10 minutes, use that instead. 

The spell to be brought into effect by 
the contingency must be one that affects 
your person (feather fall, levitate, fly, teleport, 
and so forth) and be of a spell level no 
higher than one-third your caster level 
(rounded down, maximum 6th level). 

The conditions needed to bring the 
spell into effect must be clear, although 
they can be general. For example, a contin- 
gency cast with water breathing might pre- 
scribe that any time you are plunged into 
or otherwise engulfed in water or similar 
liquid, the water breathing spell instantly 
comes into effect. Or a contingency could 
bring a feather fall spell into effect any time 
you fall more than 4 feet. In all cases, the 
contingency immediately brings into effect 
the companion spell, the latter being “cast” 
instantaneously when the prescribed cir- 
cumstances occur. If complicated or con- 
voluted conditions are prescribed, the 
whole spell combination (contingency and 
the companion magic) may fail when 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Object touched 

Effect: Magical, heatless flame 
Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


A flame, equivalent in brightness to a 
torch, springs forth from an object that 
you touch. The effect looks like a regular 
flame, but it creates no heat and doesn't 
use oxygen. A continual flame can be cov- 
ered and hidden but not smothered or 
quenched. 

Light spells counter and dispel dark- 
ness spells of an equal or lower level. 

Material Component: You sprinkle ruby 
dust (worth 50 gp) on the item that is to 
carry the flame. 


Control Plants 


‘Transmutation 

Level: Drd 8, Plant 8 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Up to 2 HD/level of plant crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 

| than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell enables you to control the 
actions of one or more plant creatures for 
a short period of time. You command the 
creatures by voice and they understand 
you, no matter what language you speak. 
Even if vocal communication is impos- 
sible (in the area of a silence spell, for 
instance), the controlled plants do not 
attack you. At the end of the spell, the 
subjects revert to their normal behavior. 

Suicidal or self-destructive commands 
are simply ignored. 


214 


Control Undead 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Up to 2 HD/level of undead 
creatures, no two of which can be 
more than 30 ft. apart 

| Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell enables you to command 
undead creatures for a short period of 
time. You command them by voice and 
they understand you, no matter what lan- 
guage you speak. Even if vocal communi- 
cation is impossible (in the area of a silence 
spell, for instance), the controlled undead 
do not attack you. At the end of the spell, 
the subjects revert to their normal behav- 
ior. Intelligent undead creatures remem- 
ber that you controlled them. | 

Material Component: A small piece of 
bone and a small piece of raw meat. 


Control Water _ 


Transmutation [Water] 

Level: Clr 4, Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 6, Water 4 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: Water in a volume of 10 ft./level by 
10 ft./level by 2 ft./level (S) 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None; see text aw) 

Spell Resistance: No 


Depending on the version you choose, 
the control water spell raises or lowers 
[water 
|__ Lower Water: This causes water or simi- 
| lar liquid to reduce its depth by as much 
[as 2 feet per caster level (to a minimum 
‘depth of 1 inch). The water is lowered 

within a squarish depression whose sides 

are up to caster level x 10 feet long. In 
extremely large and deep bodies of water, 

such as a deep ocean, the spell creates a 

whirlpool that sweeps ships and similar 

craft downward, putting them at risk and 
rendering them unable to leave by 
| normal movement for the duration of the 
| spell. When cast on water elementals and 
| other water-based creatures, this spell acts 
|as a slow spell (Will negates). The spell has 
no effect on other creatures. 

Raise Water: This causes water or similar 
liquid to rise in height, just as the lower 
water version causes it to lower. Boats 
raised in this way slide down the sides of 
the hump that the spell creates. If the area 
affected by the spell includes riverbanks, 
a beach, or other land nearby, the water 
can spill over onto dry land. 

With either version, you may reduce 


one horizontal dimension by half and 
double the other horizontal dimension. 

Arcane Material Component: A drop of 
water (for raise water) or a pinch of dust 
(for lower water). 


Control Weather 


Transmutation 

Level: Air 7, Clr 7, Drd 7, Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S 

‘Casting Time: 10 minutes; see text 

‘Range: 2 miles 

‘Area: 2-mile-radius circle, centered on 
you; see text 

Duration: 4d12 hours; see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You change the weather in the local area. It 
takes 10 minutes to cast the spell and an 
additional 10 minutes for the effects to 
manifest. The current, natural weather 
(conditions are determined by the DM. You 
ican call forth weather appropriate to the 
{climate and season of the area you are in. 
Season Possible Weather 

Spring Tornado, thunderstorm, sleet 

storm, or hot weather 


Summer Torrential rain, heat wave, or 
hailstorm 

Autumn Hot or cold weather, fog, or 
sleet 

Winter Frigid cold, blizzard, or thaw 


Late winter Hurricane-force winds or early | 


spring (coastal area) 


You control the general tendencies of the 
weather, such as the direction and inten- 
sity of the wind. You cannot control spe- 
cific applications of the weather—where 
lightning strikes, for example, or the 


exact path of a tornado. When you select a, 


certain weather condition to occur, the 
weather assumes that condition 10 min- 
utes later (changing gradually, not 
abruptly). The weather continues as you 
left it for the duration, or until you use a 
standard action to designate a new kind of 
weather (which fully manifests itself 10 
minutes later). Contradictory conditions 
are not possible simultaneously—fog and 
strong wind, for example. 

Control weather can do away with 
atmospheric phenomena (naturally oc- 
curring or otherwise) as well as create 
them. 

A druid casting this spell doubles the 
duration and affects a circle with a 3-mile 
radius. 


Control Winds 


Transmutation [Air] 

Level: Air 5, Drd 5 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 40 ft./level 


Area: 40 ft./level radius cylinder 40 ft. 
high 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 

Spell Resistance: No 


You alter wind force in the area surround- 
ing you. You can make the wind blow in a| 
certain direction or manner, increase its | 
strength, or decrease its strength. The | 
new wind direction and strength persist 
until the spell ends or until you choose to 
alter your handiwork, which requires 
concentration. You may create an “eye” of 
calm air up to 80 feet in diameter at the 
center of the area if you so desire, and you 
may choose to limit the area to any cylin- 
drical area less than your full limit (for 
example, a 20-foot-diameter tornado cen- 
tered 100 feet away). 

Wind Direction: You may choose one of 
four basic wind patterns to function over 
the spell’s area. i 
e A downdraft blows from the center 

outward in equal strength in all direc- 

tions. 

¢ An updraft blows from the outer edges 
in toward the center in equal strength 
from all directions, veering upward 
before impinging on the eye in the 

| center. 

œ A rotation causes the winds to circle 
the center in clockwise or counter- 

| clockwise fashion. 

e A blast simply causes the winds to blow 
in one direction across the entire area 
from one side to the other. 

Wind Strength: For every three caster 
levels, you can increase or decrease wind 
strength by one level. (The categories of 
wind strength are briefly described below, 
with more detail to be found in the Dun- 
geon Master’s Guide.) Each round on your 
turn, a creature in the wind must make a 
Fortitude save or suffer the effect of being 
in the windy area. 

Strong winds (21+ mph) make sailing 
difficult. 

A severe wind (31+ mph) causes minor 
ship and building damage. | 

A windstorm (51+ mph) drives most | 
flying creatures from the skies, uproots 
small trees, knocks down light wooden 
structures, tears off roofs, and endangers 
ships. 

Hurricane force winds (75+ mph) de- 
stroy wooden buildings, sometimes 
uproot even large trees, and cause most 
ships to founder. 

A tornado (175+ mph) destroys all non- 
fortified buildings and often uproots 
large trees. 


Create Food and Water 


Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Clr 3 
Components: V, S 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Effect: Food and water to sustain three 
humans or one horse/level for 24 
hours 

Duration: 24 hours; see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


The food that this spell creates is simple. 
| fare of your choice—highly nourishing, 
lif rather bland. Food so created decays 
land becomes inedible within 24 hours, 
although it can be kept fresh for another 
24 hours by casting a purify food and drink 
spell on it. The water created by this spell 
is just like clean rain water, and it doesn't 


go bad as the food does. 


Create Greater Undead 
Necromancy [Evil] 
Level: Clr 8, Death 8, Sor/Wiz 8 


This spell functions like create undead, 


except that you can create more powerful 
and intelligent sorts of undead: shadows, 
wraiths, spectres, and devourers (see the 
Monster Manual for more information on 
all types of undead). The type or types of 
undead you can create is based on your 
caster level, as shown on the table below. 


Caster Level Undead Created 


15th or lower Shadow 

16th-17th Wraith 

18th-19th Spectre 

20th or higher Devourer } 


Create Undead 
Necromancy [Evil] 
| Level: Clr 6, Death 6, Evil 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
| Components: V, S, M 
| Casting Time: 1 hour 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Target: One corpse 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


A much more potent spell than animate 
dead, this evil spell allows you to create 
more powerful sorts of undead: ghouls, 
ghasts, mummies, and mohrgs (see the 
| Monster Manual for more information on 
lall types of undead). The type or types of 
| undead you can create is based on your 
| caster level, as shown on the table below. 


Caster Level Undead Created 


11th or lower Ghoul 
12th-14th Ghast 
15th-17th Mummy 


18th or higher Mohrg 


You may create less powerful undead than 


example, at 16th level you could decide to 


create a ghoul or a ghast instead of a 
mummy. Doing this may be a good idea, 
because created undead are not automati- 
cally under the control of their animator. 
If you are capable of commanding 
undead, you may attempt to command 
the undead creature as it forms (see Turn 
or Rebuke Undead, page 159). 
This spell must be cast at night. 

Material Component: A clay pot filled with 
grave dirt and another filled with brackish 
‚water. The spell must be cast on a dead body. 
You must place a black onyx gem worth at 
least 50 gp per HD of the undead to be cre- 
ated into the mouth or eye socket of each 
corpse. The magic of the spell turns these 
gems into worthless shells. 


Create Water 


Conjuration (Creation) [Water] 
Level: Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Up to 2 gallons of water/level 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell generates wholesome, drink- 


able water, just like clean rain water. 
Water can be created in an area as small as. 
will actually contain the liquid, or in an! 


area three times as large—possibly creat- 


ing a downpour or filling many small, 


receptacles. 

Note: Conjuration spells can’t create 
substances or objects within a creature. 
Water weighs about 8 pounds per gallon. 
One cubic foot of water contains roughly 
8 gallons and weighs about 60 pounds. 


Creeping Doom 


Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Drd 7 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels)/ 
100 ft.; see text 

Effect: One swarm of centipedes/two 
levels 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


When you utter the spell of creeping doom, 
you call forth a mass of centipede swarms 
(one per two caster levels, to a maximum 
of ten swarms at 20th level), which need 
not appear adjacent to one another. (See 
the Monster Manual for details on cen- 
tipede swarms.) 

You may summon the centipede 
swarms so that they share the area of 
other creatures. The swarms remain sta- 
tionary, attacking any creatures in their 
area, unless you command the creeping 


doom to move (a standard action). As a 

standard action, you can command any 

number of the swarms to move toward 

any prey within 100 feet of you. You 

cannot command any swarm to move 

‘more than 100 feet away from you, and if 

you move more than 100 feet from any 

swarm, that swarm remains stationary, 
attacking any creatures in its area (but it) 
can be commanded again if you move | 
within 100 feet). 


Crushing Despair 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 30 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An invisible cone of despair causes great 
sadness in the subjects. Each affected 
creature takes a —2 penalty on attack rolls, 
saving throws, ability checks, skill checks, 
and weapon damage rolls. 

Crushing despair counters and dispels 
good hope. 

Material Component: A vial of tears. 


Cure Critical Wounds 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 5, Healing 4 


This spell functions like cure light wounds, 
except that it cures 4d8 points of damage 
+1 point per caster level (maximum +20). 


Cure Critical Wounds, Mass 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 8, Drd 9, Healing 8 


This spell functions like mass cure light 
wounds, except that it cures 4d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
‘mum +40). 


Cure Light Wounds 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Drd 1, Healing 1, 
Pal 1, Rgr 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will half (harmless); see 
text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless); see text 


When laying your hand upon a living 
creature, you channel positive energy that 
cures 1d8 points of damage +1 point per 
caster level (maximum +5). 


216 


Cure Minor Wounds 


Since undead are powered by negative 
energy, this spell deals damage to them 
instead of curing their wounds. An undead 
creature can apply spell resistance, and can 
attempt a Will save to take half damage. 


Cure Light Wounds, Mass 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Brd 5, Clr 5, Drd 6, Healing 5 
| Components: V, S 
‘Casting Time: 1 standard action _ 
(Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Target: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) or 
Will half; see text | 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes; 
see text 


You channel positive energy to cure 1d8 
points of damage +1 point per caster level 
(maximum +25) in each selected creature. 

Like other cure spells, mass cure light 
wounds deals damage to undead in its area 
rather than curing them. Each affected) 
undead may attempt a Will save for half 
damage. 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 0, Drd 0 


This spell functions like cure light wounds, 
except that it cures only 1 point of 
damage. 


- 
| 


Cure Moderate Wounds 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Drd 3, Healing 2, 
Pal 3, Rer 3 


| This spell functions like cure light wounds, 
l except that it cures 2d8 points of damage 
|+1 point per caster level (maximum +10). 


Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Drd 7 


This spell functions like mass cure light 
wounds, except that it cures 2d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
| mum +30). 


Cure Serious Wounds _ 


| Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 4, Pal 4, Rgr 4, 
Healing 3 


This spell functions like cure light wounds, 
except that it cures 3d8 points of damage 
+1 point per caster level (maximum +15). 


Cure Serious Wounds, Mass 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7, Drd 8 


This spell functions like mass cure light 
wounds, except that it cures 3d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +35). 


Curse Water 


Necromancy [Evil] 

Level: Clr 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

‘Range: Touch 

‘Target: Flask of water touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This spell imbues a flask (1 pint) of water 
with negative energy, turning it into 
unholy water. Unholy water damages 
good outsiders the way holy water dam- 
‚ages undead and evil outsiders. 

| Material Component: 5 pounds of pow- 
\dered silver (worth 25 gp). 

| 


Dancing Lights 


|Evocation [Light] 

Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 


Effect: Up to four lights, all within a 10- | 


ft.-radius area 
Duration: 1 minute (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
‘Spell Resistance: No 


Depending on the version selected, you 
create up to four lights that resemble lan- 
terns or torches (and cast that amount of 
light), or up to four glowing spheres of 
light (which look like will-o’-wisps), or 
one faintly glowing, vaguely humanoid 


shape. The dancing lights must stay within, 


a 10-foot-radius area in relation to each 
other but otherwise move as you desire 
(no concentration required): forward or 
back, up or down, straight or turning cor- 
ners, or the like. The lights can move up 
to 100 feet per round. A light winks out if 
the distance between you and it exceeds 
the spell’s range. 

Dancing lights can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Darkness 


Evocation [Darkness] 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Object touched 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell causes an object to radiate 
shadowy illumination out to a 20-foot 


radius. All creatures in the area gain con- 
cealment (20% miss chance). Even crea- 
tures that can normally see in such con- 
ditions (such as with darkvision or 
low-light vision) have the miss chance in 
an area shrouded in magical darkness. 
Normal lights (torches, candles, lanterns, | 
and so forth) are incapable of brightening | 
the area, as are light spells of lower level | 
(such as light or dancing lights). Higher- | 
level light spells (such as daylight) are not 
affected by darkness. 

If darkness is cast on a small object that 
is then placed inside or under a lightproof 
covering, the spell’s effect is blocked until 
the covering is removed. 

Darkness counters or dispels any light 
spell of equal or lower spell level. 

Arcane Material Component: A bit of bat 
fur and either a drop of pitch or a piece of 
coal. 


Darkvision 


Transmutation 

Level: Rgr 3, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch E 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject gains the ability to see 60 feet 
even in total darkness. Darkvision is black 
and white only but otherwise like normal 
sight. Darkvision does not grant one the 
ability to see in magical darkness. 
Darkvision can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 
| Material Component: Either a pinch of 
dried carrot or an agate. 


Daylight 


Evocation [Light] 

Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 3, Pal 3, 
Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Object touched 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


The object touched sheds light as bright 
as full daylight in a 60-foot radius, and 
dim light for an additional 60 feet beyond 
that. Creatures that take penalties in 
bright light also take them while within 
the radius of this magical light. Despite its 
name, this spell is not the equivalent of 
daylight for the purposes of creatures that 
are damaged or destroyed by bright light 
(such as vampires). If daylight is cast on a 
small object that is then placed inside or 
under a lightproof covering, the spell’s 


effects are blocked until the covering is 
removed. 

Daylight brought into an area of magi- 
cal darkness (or vice versa) is temporarily 
negated, so that the otherwise prevailing 
light conditions exist in the overlapping 
areas of effect. | 

Daylight counters or dispels any dark- 
ness spell of equal or lower level, such as 

_ darkness. 


Daze 
| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One humanoid creature of 4 HD 
or less 
Duration: 1 round 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This enchantment clouds the mind of a 
humanoid creature with 4 or fewer Hit 
Dice so that it takes no actions. Human- 
oids of 5 or more HD are not affected. A 
dazed subject is not stunned, so attackers 
get no special advantage against it. 

Material Component: A pinch of wool or 
similar substance. 


Daze Monster | 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- | 
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 oe 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature of 6 HD or less 


This spell functions like daze, but daze 
| monster can affect any one living creature 


| of any type. Creatures of 7 or more HD are 
| not affected. 


Death Knell 

Necromancy [Death, Evil] 
Level: Clr 2, Death 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous/10 minutes 

|__ per HD of subject; see text_ 

| Saving Throw: Will negates 

| Spell Resistance: Yes 


You draw forth the ebbing life force of a 
creature and use it to fuel your own 
power. Upon casting this spell, you touch 
a living creature that has —1 or fewer hit 
points. If the subject fails its saving throw, 
it dies, and you gain 1d8 temporary hit 
points and a +2 bonus to Strength. Addi- 
tionally, your effective caster level goes up 
by +1, improving spell effects dependent 
on caster level. (This increase in effective 


caster level does not grant you access to 
more spells.) These effects last for 10 min- 
utes per HD of the subject creature. 


Death Ward 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 4, Death 4, Drd 5, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 
‘Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject is immune to all death spells, 
magical death effects, energy drain, and 
any negative energy effects (such as from 
inflict spells or chill touch). 

This spell doesn’t remove negative 
levels that the subject has already gained, 
inor does it affect the saving throw neces- 
\sary 24 hours after gaining a negative 
‘level. 

Death ward does not protect against 
‘other sorts of attacks, such as hit point 
loss, poison, or petrification, even if those 
attacks might be lethal. 


Deathwatch 


Necromancy [Evil] 

Level: Clr 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 30 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Using the foul sight granted by the 
powers of unlife, you can determine the 


condition of creatures near death within. 


the spell’s range. You instantly know 
whether each creature within the area is 
dead, fragile (alive and wounded, with 3 
or fewer hit points left), fighting off death 
(alive with 4 or more hit points), undead, 
or neither alive nor dead (such as a con- 
struct). Deathwatch sees through any spell 
or ability that allows creatures to feign 


death. 


Deep Slumber 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


This spell functions like sleep, except that 
it affects 10 HD of creatures. 


Deeper Darkness 


Evocation [Darkness] 
Level: Clr 3 
Duration: One day/level (D) 


This spell functions like darkness, except 
that the object radiates shadowy illumina- 
tion in a 60-foot radius and the darkness 
lasts longer. 

Daylight brought into an area of deeper 
darkness (or vice versa) is temporarily 
negated, so that the otherwise prevailing 
light conditions exist in the overlapping | 
areas of effect. | 

Deeper darkness counters and dispels | 
any light spell of equal or lower level, 
including daylight and light. 


Delay Poison 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 2, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
less) ; 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject becomes temporarily im- 
mune to poison. Any poison in its system 
or any poison to which it is exposed 
during the spell’s duration does not affect 
the subject until the spell’s duration has 
expired. Delay poison does not cure any 
damage that poison may have already 
done. 


Delayed Blast Fireball 


Evocation [Fire] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Duration: 5 rounds or less; see text 


This spell functions like fireball, except 
that it is more powerful and can detonate 
up to 5 rounds after the spell is cast. The 
burst of flame deals 1d6 points of fire 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6). 

The glowing bead created by delayed 
blast fireball can detonate immediately if 
you desire, or you can choose to delay the 
burst for as many as 5 rounds. You select 
the amount of delay upon completing the | 
spell, and that time cannot change once it | 
has been set unless someone touches the | 
bead (see below). If you choose a delay, 
the glowing bead sits at its destination 
until it detonates. A creature can pick up 
and hurl the bead as a thrown weapon 
(range increment 10 feet). If a creature 
handles and moves the bead within 1 
round of its detonation, there is a 25% 
chance that the bead detonates while 
being handled. 


Demand 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Saving Throw: Will partial 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


218 


This spell functions like sending, but the 
message can also contain a suggestion (see 
the suggestion spell), which the subject 
does its best to carry out. A successful 
Will save negates the suggestion effect but 
not the contact itself. The demand, if 
received, is understood even if the sub- 
ject’s Intelligence score is as low as 1. If 
the message is impossible or meaningless 
_according to the circumstances that exist 
for the subject at the time the demand is 
issued, the message is understood but the 
| suggestion is ineffective. | 
The demand’s message to the creature 
must be twenty-five words or less, includ- 
ing the suggestion. The creature can also 
give a short reply immediately. 
Material Component: A short piece of 
copper wire and some small part of the 
subject—a hair, a bit of nail, or the like. 


Desecrate 


Evocation [Evil] 

Level: Clr 2, Evil 2 
Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius emanation 
Duration: 2 hours/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell imbues an area with negative 
energy. Each Charisma check made to 
turn undead within this area takes a —3, 
profane penalty, and every undead crea- 
ture entering a desecrated area gains a +1 
profane bonus on attack rolls, damage 
rolls, and saving throws. An undead crea- 
ture created within or summoned into 
_such an area gains +1 hit points per HD. 
If the desecrated area contains an altar, 
| shrine, or other permanent fixture dedi- 
|cated to your deity or aligned higher 
| power, the modifiers given above are dou- 
‘bled (—6 profane penalty on turning 
checks, +2 profane bonus and +2 hit 
points per HD for undead in the area). 
Furthermore, anyone who casts animate 
dead within this area may create as many 
as double the normal amount of undead 
(that is, 4 HD per caster level rather than 
2 HD per caster level). 
| If the area contains an altar, shrine, or 
_other permanent fixture of a deity, pan- 
| theon, or higher power other than your 
| patron, the desecrate spell instead curses 
the area, cutting off its connection with 
the associated deity or power. This sec- 
ondary function, if used, does not also 
grant the bonuses and penalties relating 
to undead, as given above. 
Desecrate counters and dispels consecrate. 
Material Component: A vial of unholy 
water and 25 gp worth (5 pounds) of silver 
dust, all of which must be sprinkled 


around the area. 


Destruction 


Necromancy [Death] 

Level: Clr 7, Death 7 
Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


‘This spell instantly slays the subject and 
‘consumes its remains (but not its equip- 
ment and possessions) utterly. If the 
target's Fortitude saving throw succeeds, it 
instead takes 10d6 points of damage. The 
only way to restore life to a character who 
has failed to save against this spell is to use 
true resurrection, a carefully worded wish 
spell followed by resurrection, or miracle. 

Focus: A special holy (or unholy) sym- 
‘bol of silver marked with verses of anath- 
‘ema (cost 500 gp). 


l 
Detect Animals or Plants 


[Divination 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 
min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: No 


You can detect a particular kind of animal 
or plant in a cone emanating out from you 
in whatever direction you face. You must 
think of a kind of animal or plant when 
using the spell, but you can change the 
animal or plant kind each round. The 


amount of information revealed depends. 


on how long you search a particular area or 
focus on a specific kind of animal or plant. 

1st Round: Presence or absence of that 
kind of animal or plant in the area. 

2nd Round: Number of individuals of 
the specified kind in the area, and the 
condition of the healthiest specimen. 

3rd Round: The condition (see below) 
and location of each individual present. If 
an animal or plant is outside your line of 
sight, then you discern its direction but 
not its exact location. 

Conditions: For purposes of this spell, 
the categories of condition are as follows: 

Normal: Has at least 90% of full normal 
hit points, free of disease. 

Fair: 30% to 90% of full normal hit 
points remaining. 

Poor: Less than 30% of full normal hit 
points remaining, afflicted with a disease, 
or suffering from a debilitating injury. 

Weak: 0 or fewer hit points remaining, 
afflicted with a disease in the terminal 
stage, or crippled. 


If a creature falls into more than one 
category, the spell indicates the weaker of 
the two. 

Each round you can turn to detect a kind 
of animal or plant in a new area. The spell 
can penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 
inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, 
or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it. } 

The DM decides if a specific kind of | 
animal or plant is present. 


Detect Chaos 


Divination 
Level: Clr 1 


This spell functions like detect evil, except 
that it detects the auras of chaotic crea- 
tures, clerics of chaotic deities, chaotic 
spells, and chaotic magic items, and you 
are vulnerable to an overwhelming 
chaotic aura if you are lawful. 


Detect Evil 


Divination 

Level: Clr 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 60 ft. E 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 min./ 
level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can sense the presence of evil. The 
amount of information revealed depends 
on how long you study a particular area or 
subject. 

1st Round: Presence or absence of evil. 

2nd Round: Number of evil auras (crea- 
tures, objects, or spells) in the area and the 
power of the most potent evil aura pres- 
ent. If you are of good alignment, and the 
strongest evil auras power is overwhelm- 
ing (see below), and the HD or level of the 
auras source is at least twice your charac- 
ter level, you are stunned for 1 round and 
the spell ends. 

3rd Round: The power and location of. 
each aura. If an aura is outside your line of | 
sight, then you discern its direction but | 
not its exact location. 

Aura Power: An evil aura’s power de- 
pends on the type of evil creature or ob- 
ject that youre detecting and its HD, cast- 
er level, or (in the case of a cleric) class 
level; see the accompanying table. If an 
aura falls into more than one strength cat- 
egory, the spell indicates the stronger of 
the two. 

For example, as indicated on the table, 
an evil outsider with 12 HD has an over- 
whelming aura of evil. A good cleric who 
casts this spell and directs it at the loca- 
tion of such a creature for longer than 1 
round loses the spell and is stunned for 1 
round if his character level is 6th or lower. 


Detect Evit Each round, you can turn to detect 


Aura Power magic in a new area. The spell can pene- 
Creature/Object Faint Moderate Strong Overwhelming trate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of 
Evil creature’ (HD) 10 or lower = 25 26-50 51 or higher common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 
Evil undead (HD) 2 or lower 3-8 9-20 21 or higher feet of wood or dirt blocks it. 
Evil outsider (HD) 1 or lower 2-4 5-10 11 or higher Detect magic can be made permanent 
Cleric of an evil deity? (class levels) ] 2-4 5-10 11 or higher with a permanency spell. 
Evil magic item or spell (caster level) 2nd or lower  3rd—8th 9th-20th 21st or higher 


1 Except for undead and outsiders, which have their own entries on the table. Detect Poison 


2 Some characters who are not clerics may radiate an aura of equivalent power. The class Divination 
description will indicate whether this applies. Level: Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, Rgr 1, 
Sor/Wiz 0 


. 


Lingering Aura: An evil aura lingers 
after its original source dissipates (in the 
case of a spell) or is destroyed (in the case 
of a creature or magic item). If detect evil is 
cast and directed at such a location, the 
spell indicates an aura strength of dim 
(even weaker than a faint aura). How long 
the aura lingers at this dim level depends 
on its original power: 


Duration of 
Original Strength Lingering Aura 
Faint 1d6 rounds 
Moderate 1d6 minutes 
Strong 1d6x10 minutes 
Overwhelming _1d6 days 


Animals, traps, poisons, and other poten- 
tial perils are not evil, and as such this 
spell does not detect them. 

Each round, you can turn to detect evil 
in a new area. The spell can penetrate bar- 
riers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of com- 
mon metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet 
of wood or dirt blocks it. 


Detect Good 
Divination 
Level: Clr 1 


| This spell functions like detect evil, except 
| that it detects the auras of good creatures, 
[clerics or paladins of good deities, good 
spells, and good magic items, and you are 
vulnerable to an overwhelming good aura 
if you are evil. Healing potions, antidotes, 
and similar beneficial items are not good. 


Detect Law 
Divination 
Level: Clr 1 


| This spell functions like detect evil, except 

i that it detects the auras of lawful crea- 

| tures, clerics of lawful deities, lawful 
spells, and lawful magic items, and you 
are vulnerable to an overwhelming lawful 
aura if you are chaotic. 


Detect Magic 

Divination 

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 


Area: Cone-shaped emanation 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You detect magical auras. The amount of 
information revealed depends on how 
long you study a particular area or subject. 
1st Round: Presence or absence of magi- 
ical auras. 
2nd Round: Number of different magi- 
ical auras and the power of the most potent 
laura. 
| _3rd Round: The strength and location of 
each aura. If the items or creatures bearing 
the auras are in line of sight, you can make 
Spellcraft skill checks to determine the 


school of magic involved in each. (Make 
one check per aura; DC 15 + spell level, or. 
15 + half caster level for a nonspell effect.) 


Magical areas, multiple types of magic, 


lor strong local magical emanations may, 


distort or conceal weaker auras. 
___ Aura Strength: An auras power depends 
on a spell’s functioning spell level or an 
item’s caster level. If an aura falls into 
more than one category, detect magic indi- 
cates the stronger of the two. 

Lingering Aura: A magical aura lingers 


after its original source dissipates (in the 


case of a spell) or is destroyed (in the case 
of a magic item). If detect magic is cast and 
directed at such a location, the spell indi- 
cates an aura strength of dim (even 
weaker than a faint aura). How long the 
aura lingers at this dim level depends on 
its original power: 


Duration of 
Original Strength Lingering Aura 
Faint 1d6 rounds 
Moderate 1d6 minutes 
Strong 1d6x10 minutes 
Overwhelming 1d6 days 


Outsiders and elementals are not magical 
in themselves, but if they are summoned, 
the conjuration spell registers. 


Detect MAGIC 


Spell or Object Faint 
Functioning spell (spell level) 3rd or lower 
Magic item (caster level) 5th or lower 


Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target or Area: One creature, one 
object, or a 5-ft. cube 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You determine whether a creature, object, 
or area has been poisoned or is poisonous. 
You can determine the exact type of 
poison with a DC 20 Wisdom check. A 
character with the Craft (alchemy) skill 
may try a DC 20 Craft (alchemy) check if 
the Wisdom check fails, or may try the 
Craft (alchemy) check prior to the Wis- 
dom check. 

__ The spell can penetrate barriers, but 1 
foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a 
thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt 
blocks it. 


Detect Scrying 


Divination 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 40 ft. 

‘Area: 40-ft.-radius emanation centered 
on you 

Duration: 24 hours 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You immediately become aware of any 
attempt to observe you by means of a. 
divination (scrying) spell or effect. The | 
spell’s area radiates from you and moves | 
as you move. You know the location of 
every magical sensor within the spell’s 
area. 

If the scrying attempt originates 
within the area, you also know its loca- 
tion; otherwise, you and the scrier imme- 
diately make opposed caster level checks 
(1d20 + caster level). If you at least match 
the scrier’s result, you get a visual image 
of the scrier and an accurate sense of his 


Aura Power 
Moderate Strong Overwhelming 
4th-6th 7th-9th 10th+ (deity-level) 
6th-11th 12th-20th 21st+ (artifact) 


220 


or her direction and distance from you. 

Material Component: A small piece of 
mirror and a miniature brass hearing 
trumpet. 


Detect Secret Doors 


Divination 

Level: Brd 1, Knowledge 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
| Duration: Concentration, up to 1 

min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You can detect secret doors, compart- 
ments, caches, and so forth. Only pas- 
sages, doors, or openings that have been 
specifically constructed to escape detec- 
tion are detected by this spell—an ordi- 
nary trapdoor underneath a pile of crates, 
would not be detected. The amount of 
information revealed depends on how 
long you study a particular area or subject. 
1st Round: Presence or absence of secret 
doors. Pal | 
2nd Round: Number of secret doors and 
the location of each. If an aura is outside 
your line of sight, then you discern its 
direction but not its exact location. 

Each Additional Round: The mechanism 
or trigger for one particular secret portal 
closely examined by you. 

Each round, you can turn to detect 
secret doors in a new area. The spell can. 
penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 
inch of common metal, a thin sheet of 
lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it. 


Detect Snares and Pits 


_Divination 

| Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

| Components: V, S 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 

min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


| You can detect simple pits, deadfalls, and 

| snares as well as mechanical traps con- 

| structed of natural materials. The spell 

| does not detect complex traps, including 
trapdoor traps. 

Detect snares and pits does detect certain 
natural hazards—quicksand (a snare), a 
sinkhole (a pit), or unsafe walls of natural 
rock (a deadfall). However, it does not 
reveal other potentially dangerous condi- 
tions, such as a cavern that floods during 
rain, an unsafe construction, or a natu- 
rally poisonous plant. The spell does not 
detect magic traps (except those that 


operate by pit, deadfall, or snaring; see the 
spell snare), nor mechanically complex 
ones, nor those that have been rendered 
safe or inactive. 

The amount of information revealed 
depends on how long you study a particu- 
lar area. 

1st Round: Presence or absence of hazards. 

2nd Round: Number of hazards and the 
location of each. If a hazard is outside 
your line of sight, then you discern its 
direction but not its exact location. 
| Each Additional Round: The general type 
and trigger for one particular hazard 
closely examined by you. 

Each round, you can turn to detect 
snares and pits in a new area. The spell can 
penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 
inch of common metal, a thin sheet of 
lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it. 


Detect Thoughts 


\Divination [Mind-Affecting] 
\Level: Brd 2, Knowledge 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
|Components: V, S, F/DF 
(Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 
‘Area: Cone-shaped emanation 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 


You detect surface thoughts. The amount 
‘of information revealed depends on how. 


‘long you study a particular area or subject. 
| dst Round: Presence or absence of 
thoughts (from conscious creatures with 
Intelligence scores of 1 or higher). 

2nd Round: Number of thinking 
minds and the Intelligence score of 
each. If the highest Intelligence is 26 or 


higher (and at least 10 points higher, 


than your own Intelligence score), you 
are stunned for 1 round and the spell 
ends. This spell does not let you deter- 
mine the location of the thinking minds 
if you can’t see the creatures whose 
thoughts you are detecting. 

3rd Round: Surface thoughts of any 
mind in the area. A target's Will save pre- 
vents you from reading its thoughts, and 
you must cast detect thoughts again to have 
another chance. Creatures of animal intel- 
ligence (Int 1 or 2) have simple, in- 
stinctual thoughts that you can pick up. 

Each round, you can turn to detect 
thoughts in a new area. The spell can pen- 
etrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch 
of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 
3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it. 

Arcane Focus: A copper piece. 


Detect Undead 


Divination 
Level: Clr 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M/DF 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 60 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped emanation 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
minute/ level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can detect the aura that surrounds | 
undead creatures. The amount of informa- | 
tion revealed depends on how long you 
study a particular area. 

1st Round: Presence or absence of un- 
dead auras. 

2nd Round: Number of undead auras 
in the area and the strength of the 
strongest undead aura present. If you 
are of good alignment, and the strongest 
undead aura’s strength is overwhelming 
(see below), and the creature has HD of 
at least twice your character level, you 
are stunned for 1 round and the spell 
ends. i 

3rd Round: The strength and location of 
each undead aura. If an aura is outside 
your line of sight, then you discern its 
direction but not its exact location. 
__ Aura Strength: The strength of an un- 
dead aura is determined by the HD of the 
undead creature, as given on the follow- 
ing table: 


HD Strength 

1 or lower Faint 

2—4 Moderate 
5-10 Strong 

11 or higher Overwhelming 


Lingering Aura: An undead aura lingers 
after its original source is destroyed. If 
detect undead is cast and directed at such a 
location, the spell indicates an aura 
strength of dim (even weaker than a faint 
aura). How long the aura lingers at this 
dim level depends on its original power: 


Duration of 
Original Strength Lingering Aura 
Faint 1d6 rounds 
Moderate 1d6 minutes 
Strong 1d6x10 minutes 
Overwhelming 1d6 days 


Each round, you can turn to detect un- 
dead in a new area. The spell can pene- 
trate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of 
common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 
feet of wood or dirt blocks it. 

Arcane Material Component: A bit of 
earth from a grave. 


Dictum 


Evocation [Lawful, Sonic] 

Level: Clr 7, Law 7 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 40 ft. 


Area: Nonlawful creatures in a 
40-ft.-radius spread centered on you 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Any nonlawful creature within the area of 
a dictum spell suffers the following ill 
_effects. 


[HD Effect 
| Equal to caster level Deafened 
Up to caster level —1 Slowed, deafened 
Up to caster level —5 Paralyzed, slowed, 
deafened 

Killed, paralyzed, 
slowed, deafened 


Up to caster level -10 


The effects are cumulative and concur- 
rent. No saving throw is allowed against 
these effects. 


Deafened: The creature is deafened for A 


1d4 rounds. Ba | 
Slowed: The creature is slowed, as by the 
slow spell, for 2d4 rounds. | 
Paralyzed: The creature is paralyzed and 
helpless for 1d10 minutes. | 
Killed: Living creatures die. Undead 
creatures are destroyed. pane 
Furthermore, if you are on your home 
plane when you cast this spell, nonlawful 
extraplanar creatures within the area are 
instantly banished back to their home 
planes. Creatures so banished cannot 
return for at least 24 hours. This effect 
takes place regardless of whether the crea- 
tures hear the dictum. The banishment 
effect allows a Will save (at a —4 penalty) 
to negate. ; 
| Creatures whose HD exceed your 
| caster level are unaffected by dictum. 


Dimension Door 

| Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4, Travel 4 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Target: You and touched objects or other 

touched willing creatures 

Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None and Will negates 

| _ (object) a 

| Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object) 


| You instantly transfer yourself from your 
current location to any other spot within 
range. You always arrive at exactly the 
spot desired—whether by simply visual- 
izing the area or by stating direction, such 
as “900 feet straight downward,” or “up- 
ward to the northwest, 45-degree angle, 
1,200 feet.” After using this spell, you can't 
take any other actions until your next 
turn. You can bring along objects as long 
as their weight doesn't exceed your maxi- 


mum load. You may also bring one addi- 
tional willing Medium or smaller creature 
(carrying gear or objects up to its maxi- 
mum load) or its equivalent per three 
caster levels. A Large creature counts as 
two Medium creatures, a Huge creature 
counts as two Large creatures, and so 
forth. All creatures to be transported must 
be in contact with one another, and at 
least one of those creatures must be in 
contact with you. 

___If you arrive in a place that is already 
occupied by a solid body, you and each 
creature traveling with you take 1d6 
points of damage and are shunted to a 
random open space on a suitable surface 
within 100 feet of the intended location. 
If there is no free space within 100 feet, 
you and each creature traveling with you 
take an additional 2d6 points of damage 
and are shunted to a free space within 
11,000 feet. If there is no free space within 
11,000 feet, you and each creature travel- 
‘ling with you take an additional 4d6 
‘points of damage and the spell simply 
fails. 


Dimensional Anchor 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Ray 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


A green ray springs from your out- 
stretched hand. You must make a ranged 
touch attack to hit the target. Any crea- 
ture or object struck by the ray is covered 


with a shimmering emerald field that) 


completely blocks extradimensional 
travel. Forms of movement barred by a 
dimensional anchor include astral projection, 
blink, dimension door, ethereal jaunt, ethereal- 
ness, gate, maze, plane shift, shadow walk, tele- 
port, and similar spell-like or psionic abili- 
ties. The spell also prevents the use of a 
gate or teleportation circle for the duration 
of the spell. 

A dimensional anchor does not interfere 
with the movement of creatures already 
in ethereal or astral form when the spell is 
cast, nor does it block extradimensional 
perception or attack forms such as a 
basilisk’s gaze. Also, dimensional anchor 
does not prevent summoned creatures 
from disappearing at the end of a sum- 
moning spell. 


Dimensional Lock 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Area: 20-ft-radius emanation centered 
on a point in space 

Duration: One day/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You create a shimmering emerald barrier | 
that completely blocks extradimensional | 
travel. Forms of movement barred in-) 


clude astral projection, blink, dimension door, 
ethereal jaunt, etherealness, gate, maze, plane 
shift, shadow walk, teleport, and similar 
spell-like or psionic abilities. Once dimen- 
sional lock is in place, extradimensional 
travel into or out of the area is not 
possible. 

A dimensional lock does not interfere 
with the movement of creatures already 
in ethereal or astral form when the spell is 
cast, nor does it block extradimensional 
perception or attack forms, such as a 
basilisk’s gaze. Also, the spell does not pre- 
vent summoned creatures from disap- 
pearing at the end of a summoning spell. 


Diminish Plants 


Transmutation 7 

Level: Drd 3, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 

Target or Area: See text 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell has two versions. 

Prune Growth: This version causes nor- 
mal vegetation (grasses, briars, bushes, 
creepers, hedges, thistles, trees, vines, and 
so forth) within long range (400 feet + 40 
feet per level) to shrink to about one-third 
of their normal size, becoming untangled 
and less bushy. The affected vegetation 
appears to have been carefully pruned 
and trimmed. 

At your option, the area can be a 100- 


foot-radius circle, a 150-foot-radius semi- | 
circle, or a 200-foot-radius quarter-circle. | 
You may also designate portions of the | 


area that are not affected. 

Stunt Growth: This version targets nor- 
mal plants within a range of 1/2 mile, 
reducing their potential productivity over 
the course of the following year to one- 
third below normal. 

Diminish plants counters plant growth. 

This spell has no effect on plant crea- 
tures. 


Discern Lies 


Divination 

Level: Clr 4, Pal 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


221 


Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 
round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: No 


Each round, you concentrate on one sub- 
ject, who must be within range. You know 
Lif the subject deliberately and knowingly. 
| speaks a lie by discerning disturbances in. 
its aura caused by lying. The spell does not 
(reveal the truth, uncover unintentional 
inaccuracies, or necessarily reveal eva- 
sions. Each round, you may concentrate 
ona different subject. 


Discern Location 

Divination 

Level: Clr 8, Knowledge 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Unlimited 

Target: One creature or object 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


A discern location spell is among the most 
powerful means of locating creatures or 
objects. Nothing short of a mind blank 
spell or the direct intervention of a deity 
keeps you from learning the exact loca- 
tion of a single individual or object. Dis- 
cern location circumvents normal means of 
protection from scrying or location. The 
spell reveals the name of the creature or 
object’s location (place, name, business 
name, building name, or the like), com- 
munity, county (or similar political divi- 
_sion), country, continent, and the plane of 
| existence where the target lies. 

To find a creature with the spell, you 
| must have seen the creature or have some 
Litem that once belonged to it. To find an 
‘object, you must have touched it at least 

once. 


Disquise Self 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1, Trickery 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Personal 
| Target: You a 
| Duration: 10 min./level (D) 


4 


You make yourself—including clothing, 
armor, weapons, and equipment—look 
different. You can seem 1 foot shorter or 
taller, thin, fat, or in between. You cannot 
change your body type. For example, a 
human caster could look human, hu- 
manoid, or like any other human-shaped 
bipedal creature. Otherwise, the extent of 
the apparent change is up to you. You 
could add or obscure a minor feature, 


such as a mole or a beard, or look like an 
entirely different person. 

The spell does not provide the abilities 
or mannerisms of the chosen form, nor 
does it alter the perceived tactile (touch) 
or audible (sound) properties of you or 
your equipment. A battleaxe made to look 
like a dagger still functions as a battleaxe. 

If you use this spell to create a disguise, 
you get a +10 bonus on the Disguise 
check. 

A creature that interacts with the 
glamer gets a Will save to recognize it as 
an illusion. For example, a creature that 
touched you and realized that the tactile 
sensation did not match the visual one 
would be entitled to such a save. 


Disintegrate 


Transmutation 

Level: Destruction 7, Sor/Wiz 6 
(Components: V, S, M/DF 

\Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Ray 

(Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial (object) 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


A thin, green ray springs from your point- 
ing finger. You must make a successful) 


ranged touch attack to hit. Any creature. 


struck by the ray takes 2d6 points of. 
damage per caster level (to a maximum of 
'40d6). Any creature reduced to 0 or fewer. 
‘hit points by this spell is entirely disinte- 
grated, leaving behind only a trace of fine 
dust. A disintegrated creature’s equip- 
ment is unaffected. 

When used against an object, the ray 
simply disintegrates as much as one 10- 
foot cube of nonliving matter. Thus, the 
spell disintegrates only part of any very. 
large object or structure targeted. The 
ray affects even objects constructed 
entirely of force, such as Bigby’s forceful 
hand or a wall of force, but not magical 
effects such as a globe of invulnerability or 
an antimagic field. 

A creature or object that makes a suc- 
cessful Fortitude save is partially affected, 
taking only 5d6 points of damage. If this 
damage reduces the creature or object to 0 
or fewer hit points, it is entirely disinte- 
grated. 

Only the first creature or object struck 
can be affected; that is, the ray affects only 
one target per casting. 

Arcane Material Component: A lodestone 
and a pinch of dust. 


Dismissal 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Target: One extraplanar creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell forces an extraplanar creature 

back to its proper plane if it fails a special 

Will save (DC = spell’s save DC — crea- | 
tures HD + your caster level). If the spell | 
is successful, the creature is instantly | 
whisked away, but there is a 20% chance 

of actually sending the subject to a plane 

other than its own. 


Dispel Chaos 


Abjuration [Lawful] 
Level: Clr 5, Law 5, Pal 4 


This spell functions like dispel evil, except 
that you are surrounded by constant, blue, 
lawful energy, and the spell affects 
chaotic creatures and spells rather than 
evil ones. 


Dispel Evil 


Abjuration [Good] 

Level: Clr 5, Good 5, Pal 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

‘Target or Targets: You and a touched 
evil creature from another plane; or 
you and an enchantment or evil spell 
on a touched creature or object 

Duration: 1 round/level or until 
discharged, whichever comes first 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: See text 


Shimmering, white, holy energy sur- 
rounds you. This power has three effects. 
First, you gain a +4 deflection bonus to 
‘AC against attacks by evil creatures. 
Second, on making a successful melee 
touch attack against an evil creature from 
another plane, you can choose to drive 
that creature back to its home plane. The 
creature can negate the effects with a suc- 
cessful Will save (spell resistance applies). | 
This use discharges and ends the spell. | 
Third, with a touch you can automati- | 
cally dispel any one enchantment spell 
cast by an evil creature or any one evil 
spell. Exception: Spells that can't be dis- 
pelled by dispel magic also can’t be dis- 
pelled by dispel evil. Saving throws and 
spell resistance do not apply to this effect. 
This use discharges and ends the spell. 


Dispel Good 


Abjuration [Evil] 
Level: Clr 5, Evil 5 


This spell functions like dispel evil, except 
that you are surrounded by dark, wavering, 
unholy energy, and the spell affects good 
creatures and spells rather than evil ones. 


Dispel Law 
Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 5, Clr 5 


This spell functions like dispel evil, except 
that you are surrounded by flickering, 
yellow, chaotic energy, and the spell af- 
fects lawful creatures and spells rather 
than evil ones. 


Dispel Magic 
| Abjuration | 
| Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Drd 4, Magic 3, Pal 3, | 
Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target or Area: One spellcaster, crea- 
ture, or object; or 20-ft.-radius burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


Because magic is powerful, so too is the 


ability to dispel magic. You can use dispel, 
magic to end ongoing spells that have 
been cast on a creature or object, to tem- 
porarily suppress the magical abilities 
of a magic item, to end ongoing spells 
(or at least their effects) within an area, 
or to counter another spellcaster’s spell. 
A dispelled spell ends as if its duration 
had expired. Some spells, as detailed in 
their descriptions, can’t be defeated by 
dispel magic. Dispel magic can dispel (but 
not counter) spell-like effects just as it 
does spells. ane 

Note: The effect of a spell with an in- 
stantaneous duration can't be dispelled, 
because the magical effect is already over 

before the dispel magic can take effect. 
| Thus, you can't use dispel magic to repair 
| fire damage caused by a fireball or to turn a 
| petrified character back to flesh. In these 
cases, the magic has departed, leaving 
only burned flesh or perfectly normal 
stone in its wake. 

You choose to use dispel magic in one of 
three ways: a targeted dispel, an area 
dispel, or a counterspell: 

Targeted Dispel: One object, creature, or 
spell is the target of the dispel magic spell. 
You make a dispel check (1d20 + your 
| caster level, maximum +10) against the 
| spell or against each ongoing spell cur- 
| rently in effect on the object or creature. 
|The DC for this dispel check is 11 + the 

spell’s caster level. 

For example, Mialee, at 5th level, tar- 
gets dispel magic on a drow who is under 
the effects of haste, mage armor, and bull’s 
strength. All three spells were cast on the 
drow by a 7th-level wizard. Mialee makes 
a dispel check (1d20 + 5 against DC 18) 
three times, once each for the haste, mage 
armor, and bull’s strength effects. If she suc- 
ceeds on a particular check, that spell is 


t 


dispelled (the drow’s spell resistance 
doesn't help him); if she fails, that spell 
remains in effect. 

If you target an object or creature that 
is the effect of an ongoing spell (such as a 
monster summoned by monster summon- 
ing), you make a dispel check to end the 
spell that conjured the object or creature. 

If the object that you target is a magic 


litem, you make a dispel check against the 


item’s caster level. If you succeed, all the 


items magical properties are suppressed 


for 1d4 rounds, after which the item 
recovers on its own. A suppressed item 
becomes nonmagical for the duration of 
the effect. An interdimensional interface 
(such as a bag of holding) is temporarily 
closed. A magic item's physical properties 
are unchanged: A suppressed magic 
sword is still a sword (a masterwork 


sword, in fact). Artifacts and deities are 
‘unaffected by mortal magic such as this. 


You automatically succeed on your 


[dispel check against any spell that you 
{cast yourself. 


Area Dispel: When dispel magic is used in 


‘this way, the spell affects everything 


within a 20-foot radius. 
For each creature within the area that 
is the subject of one or more spells, you 


make a dispel check against the spell) 
with the highest caster level. If that, 
check fails, you make dispel checks) 


against progressively weaker spells until 


you dispel one spell (which discharges, 


the dispel magic spell so far as that target 


is concerned) or until you fail all your 


checks. The creature’s magic items are 
not affected. 

For each object within the area that is 
the target of one or more spells, you make 
dispel checks as with creatures. Magic 


items are not affected by an area dispel.| 


For each ongoing area or effect spell 
whose point of origin is within the area of 
the dispel magic spell, you can make a 
dispel check to dispel the spell. 

For each ongoing spell whose area 
overlaps that of the dispel magic spell, you 
can make a dispel check to end the effect, 
but only within the overlapping area. 

If an object or creature that is the effect 
of an ongoing spell (such as a monster 
summoned by monster summoning) is in 
the area, you can make a dispel check to 
end the spell that conjured that object or 
creature (returning it whence it came) in 
addition to attempting to dispel spells tar- 
geting the creature or object. 

You may choose to automatically suc- 
ceed on dispel checks against any spell 
that you have cast. 

Counterspell: When dispel magic is used 
in this way, the spell targets a spellcaster 
and is cast as a counterspell (page 170). 
Unlike a true counterspell, however, 
dispel magic may not work; you must make 


a dispel check to counter the other spell- 
caster’s spell. 


Dispel Magic, Greater 


Abjuration 
Level: Brd 5, Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 


This spell functions like dispel magic, | 
except that the maximum caster level on | 
your dispel check is +20 instead of +10.) 
Additionally, greater dispel magic has a 
chance to dispel any effect that remove 
curse can remove, even if dispel magic can't 


dispel that effect. 


Displacement 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Emulating the natural ability of the dis- 
placer beast (see the Monster Manual), the 
subject of this spell appears to be about 2 
feet away from its true location. The crea- 
ture benefits from a 50% miss chance as if 
it had total concealment. However, unlike 
actual total concealment, displacement 
does not prevent enemies from targeting 
the creature normally. True seeing reveals 
its true location. 

Material Component: A small strip of 
leather made from displacer beast hide, 
twisted into a loop. 


Disrupt Undead 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You direct a ray of positive energy. You 
must make a ranged touch attack to hit, 
and if the ray hits an undead creature, it 
deals 1d6 points of damage to it. 


Disrupting Weapon 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: One melee weapon 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object); see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


This spell makes a melee weapon deadly 
to undead. Any undead creature with HD 
equal to or less than your caster level must 
succeed on a Will save or be destroyed 
utterly if struck in combat with this 
weapon. Spell resistance does not apply 
against the destruction effect. 


Divination 
| Divination 
Level: Clr 4, Knowledge 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Similar to augury but more powerful, a 
divination spell can provide you with a 
useful piece of advice in reply to a ques- 
tion concerning a specific goal, event, or 
activity that is to occur within one week. 
The advice can be as simple as a short 
phrase, or it might take the form of a cryp- 
tic rhyme or omen. | 
For example, suppose the question is 
“Will we do well if we venture into the 
ruined temple of Erythnul?” The DM 
knows that a terrible troll guarding 10,000 
gp and a +1 shield lurks near the entrance 
but estimates that your party could beat 
the troll after a hard fight. Therefore the 
divination response might be: “Ready oil 
and open flame light your way to wealth.” 
In all cases, the DM controls what infor-_ 
mation you receive. If your party doesn't 
act on the information, the conditions may, 
change so that the information is no 
longer useful. (For example, the troll could 
move away and take the treasure with it.) 
The base chance for a correct divination is 
| 70% + 1% per caster level, to a maximum of 
| 90%. The DM adjusts the chance if unusual 
| circumstances require it (if, for example, 
unusual precautions against divination 
| spells have been taken). If the dice roll fails, 
you know the spell failed, unless specific 
magic yielding false information is at work. 
As with augury, multiple divinations 
about the same topic by the same caster use 
the same dice result as the first divination 
spell and yield the same answer each time. 
Material Component: Incense and a sac- 
\rificial offering appropriate to your reli- 
| gion, together worth at least 25 gp. 


Divine Favor 

Evocation 

Level: Clr 1, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 minute 


Calling upon the strength and wisdom of 
a deity, you gain a +1 luck bonus on attack 


and weapon damage rolls for every three 
caster levels you have (at least +1, maxi- 
mum +3). The bonus doesn't apply to spell 
damage. 


Divine Power 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 4, War 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
(Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

‘Target: You 

‘Duration: 1 round/level 


Calling upon the divine power of your 
patron, you imbue yourself with strength 
and skill in combat. Your base attack 
bonus becomes equal to your character 
level (max. +20; this effect may give you 
additional attacks), you gain a +6 enhance- 
ment bonus to Strength, and you gain 1 
\temporary hit point per caster level. 


Dominate Animal 


{Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Animal 3, Drd 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One animal 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


‘You can enchant an animal and direct it 


with simple commands such as “Attack,” 
“Run,” and “Fetch.” Suicidal or self-de- 
structive commands (including an order 
to attack a creature two or more size cate- 
gories larger than the dominated animal) 
are simply ignored. 


Dominate animal establishes a mental. 


link between you and the subject creature. 
The animal can be directed by silent 
mental command as long as it remains in 
range. You need not see the creature to 
control it. You do not receive direct sen- 
sory input from the creature, but you know 
what it is experiencing. Because you are 
directing the animal with your own intelli- 
gence, it may be able to undertake actions 
normally beyond its own comprehension, 
such as manipulating objects with its paws 
and mouth. You need not concentrate 
exclusively on controlling the creature 
unless you are trying to direct it to do 
something it normally couldn't do. Chang- 
ing your instructions or giving a dominated 
creature a new command is the equivalent 
of redirecting a spell, so it is a move action. 


Dominate Monster 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Target: One creature 


This spell functions like dominate person, 
except that the spell is not restricted by 
creature type. 


Dominate Person 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One humanoid 

Duration: One day/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You can control the actions of any hu- 
manoid creature through a telepathic link 
that you establish with the subject’s mind. 
If you and the subject have a common 
language, you can generally force the sub- 
ject to perform as you desire, within the 
limits of its abilities. If no common lan- 
guage exists, you can communicate only 
basic commands, such as “Come here,” 
“Go there,” “Fight,” and “Stand still.” You 
know what the subject is experiencing, 
but you do not receive direct sensory 
input from it, nor can it communicate 
with you telepathically. 

Once you have given a dominated crea- 
ture a command, it continues to attempt 
to carry out that command to the exclu- 
sion of all other activities except those 
necessary for day-to-day survival (such as 
sleeping, eating, and so forth). Because of 
this limited range of activity, a Sense 
Motive check against DC 15 (rather than 
DC 25) can determine that the subject’s 
behavior is being influenced by an 
enchantment effect (see the Sense Motive 
skill description, page 81). 
| Changing your instructions or giving a 
dominated creature a new command is the 
equivalent of redirecting a spell, so it is a 
move action. 

By concentrating fully on the spell (a 
standard action), you can receive full 
sensory input as interpreted by the 
mind of the subject, though it still can't, 
communicate with you. You can't actu- | 
ally see through the subject's eyes, so it’s 
not as good as being there yourself, but 
you still get a good idea of what's going 
on (the subject is walking through a 
smelly courtyard, the subject is talking 
to a guard, the guard looks suspicious, 
and so forth). 

Subjects resist this control, and any 
subject forced to take actions against its 
nature receives a new saving throw with a 
+2 bonus. Obviously self-destructive or- 
ders are not carried out. Once control is 
established, the range at which it can be 
exercised is unlimited, as long as you and 
the subject are on the same plane. You 
need not see the subject to control it. 


If you don't spend at least 1 round con- 
centrating on the spell each day, the sub- 
ject receives a new saving throw to throw 
off the domination. 

Protection from evil or a similar spell can 
prevent you from exercising control or 
using the telepathic link while the subject 
is so warded, but such an effect neither 
prevents the establishment of domination 

_nor dispels it. 


Doom 
| Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell fills a single subject with a feel} : 


become shaken. 


Drawmij’s Instant Summons 
Conjuration (Summoning) —__ 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M rea, 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 
Target: One object weighing 10 lb. or 
less whose longest dimension is 6 ft. 
or less =k 
Duration: Permanent until discharged __ 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You call some nonliving item from virtu- 
_ally any location directly to your hand. 
First, you must place your arcane mark 
| (page 201) on the item. Then you cast this 
ispell, which magically and invisibly 
inscribes the name of the item on a sap- 
phire worth at least 1,000 gp. Thereafter, 
you can summon the item by speaking a 
special word (set by you when the spell is 
cast) and crushing the gem. The item 
appears instantly in your hand. Only you 
can use the gem in this way. 

If the item is in the possession of 
another creature, the spell does not work, 
| but you know who the possessor is and 
| roughly where that creature is located 
| when the summons occurs. 
|__ The inscription on the gem is invisible. 

It is also unreadable, except by means of a 

read magic spell, to anyone but you. | 

The item can be summoned from an- 
other plane, but only if no other creature 
has claimed ownership of it. 

Material Component: A sapphire worth 
at least 1,000 gp. 


t 


Dream 
Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 minute 
Range: Unlimited 
Target: One living creature touched 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


‘You, or a messenger touched by you, 
sends a phantasmal message to others in 


the form of a dream. At the beginning of 


the spell, you must name the recipient 
or identify him or her by some title that 
leaves no doubt as to identity. The mes- 
senger then enters a trance, appears in 
the intended recipient’s dream, and deliv- 


ers the message. The message can be of 


‚any length, and the recipient remembers 
lit perfectly upon waking. The communi- 
ication is one-way. The recipient cannot 
‘ask questions or offer information, nor 
ican the messenger gain any information 
[by observing the dreams of the recipient. 
Once the message is delivered, the mes- 
senger’s mind returns instantly to its 
body. The duration of the spell is the time 
required for the messenger to enter the 


recipient’s dream and deliver the mes- 


sage. 


If the recipient is awake when the spell. 


begins, the messenger can choose to wake 


up (ending the spell) or remain in the 


trance. The messenger can remain in the 
trance until the recipient goes to sleep, 
then enter the recipient's dream and de- 
liver the message as normal. A messenger 
that is disturbed during the trance comes 
awake, ending the spell. 

Creatures who don't sleep (such as 


elves, but not half-elves) or don’t dream. 


cannot be contacted by this spell. 

The messenger is unaware of its own 
surroundings or of the activities around it 
while in the trance. It is defenseless both 
physically and mentally (always fails any 
saving throw, for example) while in the 
trance. 


Eagle’s Splendor 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Pal 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The transmuted creature becomes more 
poised, articulate, and personally forceful. 
The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus 
to Charisma, adding the usual benefits to 
Charisma-based skill checks and other 


uses of the Charisma modifier. Sorcerers 
and bards (and other spellcasters who rely 
on Charisma) affected by this spell do not 
gain any additional bonus spells for the 
increased Charisma, but the save DCs for 
spells they cast while under this spell’s 
effect do increase. 

Arcane Material Component: A few feath- | 
ers or a pinch of droppings from an eagle. | 


Eagle's Splendor, Mass 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like eagle’s splendor, 
except that it affects multiple creatures. 


Earthquake 


Evocation [Earth] 

Level: Clr 8, Destruction 8, Drd 8, 
Earth 7 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: 80-ft.-radius spread (S) 

Duration: 1 round 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


‘When you cast earthquake, an intense but 
highly localized tremor rips the ground. 
The shock knocks creatures down, col- 
lapses structures, opens cracks in the 
ground, and more. The effect lasts for 1 
round, during which time creatures on 
the ground can’t move or attack. A spell- 
caster on the ground must make a Con- 
centration check (DC 20 + spell level) or 
lose any spell he or she tries to cast. The 
earthquake affects all terrain, vegetation, 
structures, and creatures in the area. The 
specific effect of an earthquake spell 
depends on the nature of the terrain 
where it is cast. 

Cave, Cavern, or Tunnel: The spell col- 
lapses the roof, dealing 8d6 points of blud- | 
geoning damage to any creature caught 
under the cave-in (Reflex DC 15 half) and | 
pinning that creature beneath the rubble 
(see below). An earthquake cast on the roof 
of a very large cavern could also endanger 
those outside the actual area but below 
the falling debris. 

Cliffs: Earthquake causes a cliff to crum- 
ble, creating a landslide that travels hori- 
zontally as far as it fell vertically. An earth- 
quake cast at the top of a 100-foot cliff 
would sweep debris 100 feet outward 
from the base of the cliff. Any creature in 
the path takes 8dé points of bludgeoning 
damage (Reflex DC 15 half) and is pinned 
beneath the rubble (see below). 

Open Ground: Each creature standing in 
the area must make a DC 15 Reflex save or 


226 


fall down. Fissures open in the earth, and 
every creature on the ground has a 25% 
chance to fall into one (Reflex DC 20 to 
avoid a fissure). At the end of the spell, all 
fissures grind shut, killing any creatures 
still trapped within. 

Structure: Any structure standing on 
open ground takes 100 points of damage, 
enough to collapse a typical wooden or 

_masonry building, but not a structure 
built of stone or reinforced masonry. 
Hardness does not reduce this damage, 
{nor is it halved as damage dealt to objects 
normally is. (See the Dungeon Master’s 
Guide for information on hit points for 
walls and the like.) Any creature caught 
inside a collapsing structure takes 8d6 
points of bludgeoning damage (Reflex 
DC 15 half) and is pinned beneath the 
rubble (see below). 

River, Lake, or Marsh: Fissures open 
underneath the water, draining away the 
water from that area and forming muddy, 
ground. Soggy marsh or swampland 
becomes quicksand for the duration of 
the spell, sucking down creatures and, 
structures. Each creature in the area must 
make a DC 15 Reflex save or sink down in 
the mud and quicksand. At the end of the 
spell, the rest of the body of water rushes 
in to replace the drained water, possibly 
drowning those caught in the mud. 

Pinned beneath Rubble: Any creature 
pinned beneath rubble takes 1d6 points 
of nonlethal damage per minute while 
pinned. If a pinned character falls uncon- 
scious, he or she must make a DC 15, 
Constitution check or take 1d6 points of 
lethal damage each minute thereafter 
until freed or dead. 


Elemental Swarm 


| Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
| Level: Air 9, Drd 9, Earth 9, Fire 9, 
| Water 9 
‘Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Two or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


{This spell opens a portal to an Elemental 

| Plane and summons elementals from it. A 
druid can choose the plane (Air, Earth, 
Fire, or Water); a cleric opens a portal to 
the plane matching his domain. 

When the spell is complete, 2d4 Large 
elementals appear. Ten minutes later, 1d4 
Huge elementals appear. Ten minutes 
after that, one greater elemental appears. 
Each elemental has maximum hit points 
per HD. Once these creatures appear, they 
serve you for the duration of the spell. 


The elementals obey you explicitly and 
never attack you, even if someone else 
manages to gain control over them. You 
do not need to concentrate to maintain 
control over the elementals. You can dis- 
miss them singly or in groups at any time. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, earth, fire, or water crea- 
ture, it is a spell of that type. For example, 
‘elemental swarm is a fire spell when you 
‘cast it to summon fire elementals and a 
water spell when you use it to summon 
‘water elementals. 


Endure Elements 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 1, Drd 1, Pal 1, Rgr 1, 
Sor/Wiz 1, Sun 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

‘Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 24 hours 

[Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

[Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


A creature protected by endure elements 
‘suffers no harm from being in a hot or 
cold environment. It can exist comfort- 
ably in conditions between —50 and 140 


degrees Fahrenheit without having to. 
make Fortitude saves (as described in the. 
Dungeon Master’s Guide). The creature's, 


equipment is likewise protected. 


Endure elements doesn't provide any pro-. 


‘tection from fire or cold damage, nor does 
it protect against other environmental 
hazards such as smoke, lack of air, and so 
forth. 


Energy Drain 


Necromancy 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 


Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text 


for enervation 


This spell functions like enervation, except 
that the creature struck gains 2d4 nega- 
tive levels, and the negative levels last 
longer. 

There is no saving throw to avoid gain- 
ing the negative levels, but 24 hours after 
gaining them, the subject must make a 
Fortitude saving throw (DC = energy drain 
spell’s save DC) for each negative level. If 
the save succeeds, that negative level is 
removed. If it fails, the negative level also 
goes away, but one of the subject’s charac- 
ter levels is permanently drained. 

An undead creature struck by the ray 
gains 2d4x5 temporary hit points for 1 
hour. 


Enervation 


Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray of negative energy 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You point your finger and utter the incan- | 
tation, releasing a black ray of crackling | 
negative energy that suppresses the life | 
force of any living creature it strikes. You 
must make a ranged touch attack to hit. If 
the attack succeeds, the subject gains 1d4 
negative levels. 

If the subject has at least as many nega- 
tive levels as HD, it dies. Each negative 
level gives a creature a —1 penalty on at- 
tack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, abil- 
ity checks, and effective level (for deter- 
mining the power, duration, DC, and 
other details of spells or special abilities). 
Additionally, a spellcaster loses one spell 
or spell slot from his or her highest avail- 
able level. Negative levels stack. 

Assuming the subject survives, it re- 
gains lost levels after a number of hours 
equal to your caster level (maximum 15 
hours). Usually, negative levels have a 
chance of permanently draining the 
victim's levels, but the negative levels 
from enervation don't last long enough to 
do so. 
| An undead creature struck by the ray 
gains 1d4x5 temporary hit points for 1 
hour. 


Enlarge Person 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1, Strength 1 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One humanoid creature 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell causes instant growth of a hu- 
manoid creature, doubling its height and | 
multiplying its weight by 8. This increase | 
changes the creature's size category to the | 
next larger one. The target gains a +2 size 
bonus to Strength, a —2 size penalty to 
Dexterity (to a minimum of 1), and a —1 
penalty on attack rolls and AC due to its 
increased size. 

A humanoid creature whose size in- 
creases to Large has a space of 10 feet and 
a natural reach of 10 feet. This spell does 
not change the target's speed. 

If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, the creature attains the 
maximum possible size and may make a 
Strength check (using its increased 
Strength) to burst any enclosures in the 
process. If it fails, it is constrained with- 
out harm by the materials enclosing it— 


the spell cannot be used to crush a crea- 
ture by increasing its size. 

All equipment worn or carried by a 
creature is similarly enlarged by the spell. 
Melee and projectile weapons affected by 
this spell deal more damage (see Table 2-2 
in the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Other mag- 
ical properties are not affected by this 
spell. Any enlarged item that leaves an 

_enlarged creature's possession (including a 
| projectile or thrown weapon) instantly 
| returns to its normal size. This means that 

ithrown weapons deal their normal 
damage, and projectiles deal damage 
based on the size of the weapon that fired 
them. Magical properties of enlarged items 
are not increased by this spell—an 
enlarged +1 sword still has only a +1 en- 
hancement bonus, a staff-sized wand is 
still only capable of its normal functions, 
a giant-sized potion merely requires a 
greater fluid intake to make its magical 
effects operate, and so on. 


Multiple magical effects that increase i 


size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can't use a second, 
casting of this spell to further increase the 
size of a humanoid that’s still under the 
effect of the first casting. 

Enlarge person counters and dispels 
reduce person. 

Enlarge person can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A pinch of pow- 
dered iron. 


Enlarge Person, Mass 

Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Target: One humanoid creature/level, 
no two of which can be more than 
_30 ft. apart 


| This spell functions like enlarge person, 
[except that it affects multiple creatures. 


Entangle 
Transmutation 
Level: Drd 1, Plant 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: Plants in a 40-ft-radius spread 

| Duration: 1 min./level(D) _ 

| Saving Throw: Reflex partial; see text 

| Spell Resistance: No 

| 
Grasses, weeds, bushes, and even trees 
wrap, twist, and entwine about creatures 
in the area or those that enter the area, 
holding them fast and causing them to 
become entangled. The creature can 
break free and move half its normal speed 
by using a full-round action to make a DC 
20 Strength check or a DC 20 Escape 
Artist check. A creature that succeeds on 
a Reflex save is not entangled but can still 


move at only half speed through the area. 
Each round on your turn, the plants once 
again attempt to entangle all creatures 
that have avoided or escaped entangle- 
ment. 

Note: The DM may alter the effects of 
the spell somewhat, based on the nature 
of the entangling plants. 


Enthrall 


Enchantment (Charm) [Language 

__ Dependent, Mind-Affecting, Sonic] 
Level: Brd 2, Clr 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: Any number of creatures 
Duration: 1 hour or less 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


If you have the attention of a group of 
\creatures, you can use this spell to hold 
‘them spellbound. To cast the spell, you 


{must speak or sing without interruption 


(for 1 full round. Thereafter, those affected 
give you their undivided attention, ignor- 
ing their surroundings. They are consid- 
ered to have an attitude of friendly while 
under the effect of the spell (see the Dun- 


geon Master's Guide for information about. 
NPC attitudes). Any potentially affected, 


creature of a race or religion unfriendly to! 
yours gets a +4 bonus on the saving throw. 


A creature with 4 or more HD or witha, 


Wisdom score of 16 or higher remains 
aware of its surroundings and has an atti- 
tude of indifferent. It gains a new saving 
throw if it witnesses actions that it 
opposes. 

The effect lasts as long as you speak or 
sing, to a maximum of 1 hour. Those 


enthralled by your words take no action 


while you speak or sing and for 1d3 
rounds thereafter while they discuss the 
topic or performance. Those entering the 
area during the performance must also 
successfully save or become enthralled. 
The speech ends (but the 1d3-round delay 
still applies) if you lose concentration or 
do anything other than speak or sing. 

If those not enthralled have unfriendly 
or hostile attitudes toward you, they can 
collectively make a Charisma check to try 
to end the spell by jeering and heckling. 
For this check, use the Charisma bonus of 
the creature with the highest Charisma in 
the group; others may make Charisma 
checks to assist (as described in Aid 
Another, page 65). The heckling ends the 
spell if this check result beats your 
Charisma check result. Only one such 
challenge is allowed per use of the spell. 

If any member of the audience is at- 
tacked or subjected to some other overtly 
hostile act, the spell ends and the previ- 
ously enthralled members become imme- 


diately unfriendly toward you. Each crea- 
ture with 4 or more HD or with a Wisdom 
score of 16 or higher becomes hostile. 


Entropic Shield 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 1, Luck 1 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


A magical field appears around you, glow- 
ing with a chaotic blast of multicolored 
hues. This field deflects incoming arrows, 
rays, and other ranged attacks. Each 
ranged attack directed at you for which 
the attacker must make an attack roll (in- 
cluding arrows, magic arrows, Melf’s acid 
arrow, ray of enfeeblement, and so forth) has 
a 20% miss chance (similar to the effects of 
concealment). Other attacks that simply 
work at a distance, such as a dragon's 
breath weapon, are not affected. 


Erase 


Transmutation = 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
‘Target: One scroll or two pages 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


Erase removes writings of either magical or 
mundane nature from a scroll or from one 
or two pages of paper, parchment, or similar 
surfaces. With this spell, you can remove 
explosive runes, a glyph of warding, a sepia snake 
sigil, or an arcane mark, but not illusory script 
or a symbol spell. Nonmagical writing is 
automatically erased if you touch it and no 
one else is holding it. Otherwise, the chance 
of erasing nonmagical writing is 90%. 
Magic writing must be touched to be 


erased, and you also must succeed on a; 
caster level check (1d20 + caster level) 
against DC 15. (A natural 1 or 2 is always a | 


failure on this check.) If you fail to erase 
explosive runes, a glyph of warding, or a sepia 
snake sigil, you accidentally activate that 
writing instead. 


Ethereal Jaunt 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 


You become ethereal, along with your 
equipment. For the duration of the spell, 


227 


. 


you are in a place called the Ethereal 
Plane, which overlaps the normal, physi- 
cal, Material Plane. When the spell 
expires, you return to material existence. 
An ethereal creature is invisible, insub- 
stantial, and capable of moving in any 
direction, even up or down, albeit at half 
normal speed. As an insubstantial crea- 
ture, you can move through solid objects, 
including living creatures. An ethereal 
creature can see and hear on the Material 
Plane, but everything looks gray and 
ephemeral. Sight and hearing onto the 
Material Plane are limited to 60 feet. 
Force effects (such as magic missile and 
wall of force) and abjurations affect an ethe- 
real creature normally. Their effects 
extend onto the Ethereal Plane from the 
Material Plane, but not vice versa. An 
ethereal creature can’t attack material 
creatures, and spells you cast while ethe- 
real affect only other ethereal things. Cer- 
tain material creatures or objects have 
attacks or effects that work on the Ether- 
eal Plane (such as a basilisk’s gaze attack). 
Treat other ethereal creatures and ethe- 
real objects as if they were material. | 
If you end the spell and become mate- 
rial while inside a material object (such as 
a solid wall), you are shunted off to the 
nearest open space and take 1d6 points of 
damage per 5 feet that you so travel. 


Etherealness 
Transmutation 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Range: Touch; see text pa 
Targets: You and one other touched 
creature/three levels 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


+ 


| This spell functions like ethereal jaunt, 
except that you and other willing crea- 
| tures joined by linked hands (along with 
their equipment) become ethereal. Be- 
sides yourself, you can bring one creature 
per three caster levels to the Ethereal 
Plane. Once ethereal, the subjects need 
not stay together. 
When the spell expires, all affected 
creatures on the Ethereal Plane return to 
material existence. 


Evard’s Black Tentacles _ 
| Conjuration (Creation) 
| Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius spread 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell conjures a field of rubbery. 
black tentacles, each 10 feet long. These 


waving members seem to spring forth 
from the earth, floor, or whatever surface 
is underfoot—including water. They 
grasp and entwine around creatures that 
enter the area, holding them fast and 
crushing them with great strength. 
Every creature within the area of the 
spell must make a grapple check, opposed 
by the grapple check of the tentacles. Treat 
the tentacles attacking a particular target as 
a Large creature with a base attack bonus 
‘equal to your caster level and a Strength 
score of 19. Thus, its grapple check modi- 
fier is equal to your caster level +8. The ten- 
tacles are immune to all types of damage. 
Once the tentacles grapple an oppo- 
nent, they may make a grapple check each 
round on your turn to deal 1d6+4 points 
of bludgeoning damage. The tentacles 
continue to crush the opponent until the 
spell ends or the opponent escapes. 
| __ Any creature that enters the area of the 
‘spell is immediately attacked by the ten- 
\tacles. Even creatures who aren't grappling 
{with the tentacles may move through the 
larea at only half normal speed. 
| Material Component: A piece of tentacle 
‘from a giant octopus or a giant squid. 


Expeditious Retreat 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
(Range: Personal 

‘Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


This spell increases your base land speed 
by 30 feet. (This adjustment is treated as 
an enhancement bonus.) There is no 
effect on other modes of movement, such 


as burrow, climb, fly, or swim. As with any. 


effect that increases your speed, this spell 
affects your jumping distance (see the 
Jump skill, page 77). 

This spell need not be used as part of a 
retreat; the name of the spell merely hints 
at the typical wizard’s attitude toward 
combat. 


Explosive Runes 


Abjuration [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One touched object weighing no 
more than 10 lb. 

Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You trace these mystic runes upon a book, 
map, scroll, or similar object bearing writ- 
ten information. The runes detonate when 


read, dealing 6d6 points of force damage. 
Anyone next to the runes (close enough to 
read them) takes the full damage with no 
saving throw; any other creature within 
10 feet of the runes is entitled to a Reflex 
save for half damage. The object on which 
the runes were written also takes full 
damage (no saving throw). 

You and any characters you specifically | 
instruct can read the protected writing | 
without triggering the runes. Likewise, 
you can remove the runes whenever de- 
sired. Another creature can remove them 
with a successful dispel magic or erase 
spell, but attempting to dispel or erase 
the runes and failing to do so triggers the 
explosion. 

Note: Magic traps such as explosive runes 
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find the 
runes and Disable Device to thwart them. 
The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, or 
28 for explosive runes. 


Eyebite 


Necromancy [Evil] 

Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V,S _ 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature each round 
Duration: 1 round/three levels; see text 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Each round, you may target a single living 
creature, striking it with waves of evil 
power. Depending on the target's HD, this 
attack has as many as three effects. 


HD Effect 

10 or more Sickened 

5-9 Panicked, sickened 

4 or less Comatose, panicked, 
sickened 


The effects are cumulative and concur- 
rent. 

Sickened: Sudden pain and fever sweeps | 
over the subject’s body. A sickened crea- | 
ture takes a —2 penalty on attack rolls, | 
weapon damage rolls, saving throws, skill 
checks, and ability checks. A creature 
affected by this spell remains sickened for 
10 minutes per caster level. The effects 
cannot be negated by a remove disease or 
heal spell, but a remove curse is effective. 

Panicked: The subject becomes pan- 
icked for 1d4 rounds. Even after the panic 
ends, the creature remains shaken for 10 
minutes per caster level, and it automati- 
cally becomes panicked again if it comes 
within sight of you during that time. This 
is a fear effect. 

Comatose: The subject falls into a cata- 
tonic coma for 10 minutes per caster 
level. During this time, it cannot be awak- 


ened by any means short of dispelling the 
effect. This is not a sleep effect, and thus 
elves are not immune to it. 

The spell lasts for 1 round per three 
caster levels. You must spend a move action 
each round after the first to target a foe. 


Fabricate 

Transmutation 

| Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

| Components: V, S, M 

| Casting Time: See text 

| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: Up to 10 cu. ft./level; see text 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You convert material of one sort into a 
product that is of the same material. Thus, 
you can fabricate a wooden bridge from a 
clump of trees, a rope from a patch of 


hemp, clothes from flax or wool, and so_ 


forth. Creatures or magic items cannot be 
created or transmuted by the fabricate 
spell. The quality of items made by this 
spell is commensurate with the quality of 
material used as the basis for the new fab- 
rication. If you work with a mineral, the 
target is reduced to 1 cubic foot per level 
instead of 10 cubic feet. 

You must make an appropriate Craft 
check to fabricate articles requiring a 
high degree of craftsmanship (jewelry, 
swords, glass, crystal, and the like). 

Casting requires 1 round per 10 cubic 
feet (or 1 cubic foot) of material to be 
affected by the spell. 

Material Component: The original mate- 
rial, which costs the same amount as the 

_raw materials required to craft the item to 
| be created. 


Faerie Fire 

| Evocation [Light] 
Level: Drd 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: Creatures and objects within a 

5-ft.-radius burst 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

| Spell Resistance: Yes 

|A pale glow surrounds and outlines the 

| subjects. Outlined subjects shed light as 
candles. Outlined creatures do not bene- 
fit from the concealment normally pro- 
vided by darkness (though a 2nd-level or 
higher magical darkness effect functions 
normally), blur, displacement, invisibil- 
ity, or similar effects. The light is too dim 
to have any special effect on undead or 
dark-dwelling creatures vulnerable to 
light. The faerie fire can be blue, green, or 
violet, according to your choice at the 


time of casting. The faerie fire does not 
cause any harm to the objects or creatures 
thus outlined. 


False Life 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


‘Range: Personal 


Target: You 


‘Duration: 1 hour/level or until 


discharged; see text 


You harness the power of unlife to grant 
yourself a limited ability to avoid death. 
While this spell is in effect, you gain tem- 
porary hit points equal to 1d10 +1 per 
caster level (maximum +10). 

Material Component: A small amount of 


alcohol or distilled spirits, which you use 
to trace certain sigils on your body during 
\casting. These sigils cannot be seen once 
ithe alcohol or spirits evaporate. 


False Vision 
Illusion (Glamer) 


Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5, Trickery 5 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Area: 40-ft.-radius emanation 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 


Spell Resistance: No 


Any divination (scrying) spell used to 


view anything within the area of this 
spell instead receives a false image (as the 
major image spell), as defined by you at the 
time of casting. As long as the duration 
lasts, you can concentrate to change the 


image as desired. While you aren't con-| 


centrating, the image remains static. 

Arcane Material Component: The ground 
dust of a piece of jade worth at least 250 
gp, which is sprinkled into the air when 
the spell is cast. 


Fear 


Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 30 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 

Duration: 1 round/level or 1 round; see 
text 

Saving Throw: Will partial 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An invisible cone of terror causes each 
living creature in the area to become pan- 
icked unless it succeeds on a Will save. If 
cornered, a panicked creature begins cow- 
ering. (See the Dungeon Master’s Guide for 
more information on fear-panicked crea- 


tures.) If the Will save succeeds, the crea- 
ture is shaken for 1 round. 

Material Component: Either the heart of 
a hen or a white feather. 


Feather Fall 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 free action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One Medium or smaller free- 
falling object or creature/level, no two 
of which may be more than 20 ft. apart 

Duration: Until landing or 1 
round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
or Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


The affected creatures or objects fall slowly, 
though faster than feathers typically do. 
Feather fall instantly changes the rate at 
which the targets fall to a mere 60 feet per 
round (equivalent to the end of a fall from a 
few feet), and the subjects take no damage 
upon landing while the spell is in effect. 
However, when the spell duration expires, 
a normal rate of falling resumes. 

The spell affects one or more Medium 
or smaller creatures (including gear and 
carried objects up to each creature’s maxi- 
mum load) or objects, or the equivalent in 
larger creatures: A Large creature or object 
counts as two Medium creatures or objects, 
a Huge creature or object counts as two 
Large creatures or objects, and so forth. 

You can cast this spell with an instant 
utterance, quickly enough to save your- 
self if you unexpectedly fall. Casting the 
spell is a free action, like casting a quick- 
ened spell, and it counts toward the 
normal limit of one quickened spell per 
round. You may even cast this spell when 
it isn't your turn. 

This spell has no special effect on 
ranged weapons unless they are falling 
quite a distance. If the spell is cast on a 
falling item, such as a boulder dropped. 
from the top of a castle wall, the object, 
does half normal damage based on its | 
weight, with no bonus for the height of 
the drop. (See the Dungeon Master’s Guide 
for information on falling objects.) 

Feather fall works only upon free-falling 
objects. It does not affect a sword blow or 
a charging or flying creature. 


Feeblemind 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target: One creature 

Duration: Instantaneous 


230 


Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


If the target creature fails a Will saving 
throw, its Intelligence and Charisma 
scores each drop to 1, giving it roughly 
the intellect of a lizard. The affected crea- 
ture is unable to use Intelligence- or 
Charisma-based skills, cast spells, under- 
_stand language, or communicate coher- 
ently. Still, it knows who its friends are 
and can follow them and even protect 
them. The subject remains in this state 
until a heal, limited wish, miracle, or wish 
spell is used to cancel the effect of the fee- 
blemind. A creature that can cast arcane 
spells, such as a sorcerer or a wizard, takes 
a—4 penalty on its saving throw. 
Material Component: A handful of clay, 
crystal, glass, or mineral spheres. 


Find the Path 


Divination } 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Drd 6, Knowledge 6, | 
Travel 6 | 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 3 rounds 

Range: Personal or touch 

Target: You or creature touched 

Duration: 10 min/level 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(harmless) 

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless) 


The recipient of this spell can find the 
shortest, most direct physical route to a 
specified destination, be it the way into or, 
out of a locale. The locale can be outdoors, 
underground, or even inside a maze spell. 
Find the path works with respect to lo- 
_cations, not objects or creatures at a locale. 
| Thus, the subject could not find the way 
| to “a forest where a green dragon lives” or 
[ʻa hoard of platinum pieces,” but it could 
| find the exit to a labyrinth. The location 
| must be on the same plane as you are at 
the time of casting. 

The spell enables the subject to sense 
the correct direction that will eventually 
lead it to its destination, indicating at ap- 
propriate times the exact path to follow or 
physical actions to take. For example, the 
spell enables the subject to sense trip 

_wires or the proper word to bypass a glyph 

| of warding. The spell ends when the desti- 

| nation is reached or the duration expires, 

| whichever comes first. Find the path can 
be used to remove the subject and its com- 
panions from the effect of a maze spellina 
single round. 

This divination is keyed to the recipi- 
ent, not its companions, and its effect 
does not predict or allow for the actions of 
creatures (including guardians). 

Focus: A set of divination counters of 
the sort you favor—bones, ivory counters, 
sticks, carved runes, or the like 


Find Traps 


Divination 

Level: Clr 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level 


‘You gain intuitive insight into the work- 
ings of traps. You can use the Search skill 
‘to detect traps just as a rogue can. In addi- 
‘tion, you gain an insight bonus equal to 
one-half your caster level (maximum +10) 
on Search checks made to find traps 
while the spell is in effect. 

Note that find traps grants no ability to 
disable the traps that you may find. 


Finger of Death 


/Necromancy [Death] 

‘Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7 
(Components: V, S 

[Casting Time: 1 standard action 

[Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
\Target: One living creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 

‘Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You can slay any one living creature, 
within range. The target is entitled to a. 
Fortitude saving throw to survive the 


attack. If the save is successful, the crea- 


‘ture instead takes 3d6 points of damage 


|+1 point per caster level (maximum +25). 
The subject might die from damage even 
if it succeeds on its saving throw. 


Fire Seeds 


Conjuration (Creation) [Fire] 

Level: Drd 6, Fire 6, Sun 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: Up to four touched acorns or up 
to eight touched holly berries 

Duration: 10 min./level or until used 

Saving Throw: None or Reflex half; see 
text 

Spell Resistance: No 


Depending on the version of fire seeds you 
choose, you turn acorns into splash 
weapons that you or another character can 
throw, or you turn holly berries into bombs 
that you can detonate on command. 

Acorn Grenades: As many as four acorns 
turn into special splash weapons that can 
be hurled as far as 100 feet. A ranged 
touch attack roll is required to strike the 
intended target. Together, the acorns are 
capable of dealing 1d6 points of fire 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6), 
divided up among the acorns as you wish. 
For example, a 20th-level druid could 
create one 20d6 missile, two 10d6 mis- 


siles, one 11d6 and three 3d6 missiles, or 
any other combination totaling up to four 
acorns and 20d6 points of damage. 

Each acorn explodes upon striking any 
hard surface. In addition to its regular fire 
damage, it deals 1 point of splash damage 
per die, and it ignites any combustible 
materials within 10 feet. A creature with- 
in this area that makes a successful Reflex | 
saving throw takes only half damage; a | 
creature struck directly is not allowed a 
saving throw. 

Holly Berry Bombs: You turn as many as 
eight holly berries into special bombs. 
The holly berries are usually placed by 
hand, since they are too light to make 
effective thrown weapons (they can be 
tossed only 5 feet). If you are within 200 
feet and speak a word of command, each 
berry instantly bursts into flame, causing 
1d8 points of fire damage +1 point per 
caster level to every creature in a 5-foot- 
radius burst and igniting any combustible 
materials within 5 feet. A creature in the 
area that makes a successful Reflex saving 
throw takes only half damage. 

Material Component: The acorns or holly 
berries. 


Fire Shield 


Evocation [Fire or Cold] 

Level: Fire 5, Sor/Wiz 4, Sun 4 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 


This spell wreathes you in flame and 
causes damage to each creature that at- 
tacks you in melee. The flames also pro- 
tect you from either cold-based or fire- 
based attacks (your choice). 

Any creature striking you with its body 
or a handheld weapon deals normal 
damage, but at the same time the attacker 
takes 1d6 points of damage +1 point per 
caster level (maximum +15). This damage 
is either cold damage (if the shield protects | 
against fire-based attacks) or fire damage | 
(if the shield protects against cold-based | 
attacks). If the attacker has spell resist- 
ance, it applies to this effect. Creatures 
wielding weapons with exceptional reach, 
such as longspears, are not subject to this 
damage if they attack you. 

When casting this spell, you appear to 
immolate yourself, but the flames are thin 
and wispy, giving off light equal to only 
half the illumination of a normal torch 
(10 feet). The color of the flames is deter- 
mined randomly (50% chance of either 
color)—blue or green if the chill shield is 
cast, violet or blue if the warm shield is 
employed. The special powers of each ver- 
sion are as follows. 


Warm Shield: The flames are warm to 
the touch. You take only half damage 
from cold-based attacks. If such an attack 
allows a Reflex save for half damage, you 
take no damage on a successful save. 

Chill Shield: The flames are cool to the 
touch. You take only half damage from 
fire-based attacks. If such an attack allows 
a Reflex save for half damage, you take no 

_damage on a successful save. | 

___ Arcane Material Component: A bit of 

| phosphorus for the warm shield; a live fire- 

| fly or glowworm or the tail portions of 
four dead ones for the chill shield. 


Fire Storm 

Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Clr 8, Drd 7, Fire 7 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Two 10-ft. cubes per level (S) 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Reflex half 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


When a fire storm spell is cast, the whole 
area is shot through with sheets of roaring 
flame. The raging flames do not harm nat- 
ural vegetation, ground cover, and any 
plant creatures in the area that you wish to 
exclude from damage. Any other creature 
within the area takes 1dé points of fire 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d6). 
Fire Trap 
Abjuration [Fire] 
Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
| Range: Touch 
| Target: Object touched 
| Duration: Permanent until discharged 
O) 
| Saving Throw: Reflex half; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Fire trap creates a fiery explosion when an 
intruder opens the item that the trap pro- 
tects. A fire trap can ward any object that 
can be opened and closed (book, box, 
bottle, chest, coffer, coffin, door, drawer, 
and so forth). 
| When casting fire trap, you select a 
| point on the object as the spell’s center. 
| When someone other than you opens the 
| object, a fiery explosion fills the area with- 
in a 5-foot radius around the spell’s center. 
The flames deal 1d4 points of fire damage 
+1 point per caster level (maximum +20). 
The item protected by the trap is not 
harmed by this explosion. 
A fire trapped item cannot have a second 
closure or warding spell placed on it. 
A knock spell does not bypass a fire trap. 
An unsuccessful dispel magic spell does 
not detonate the spell. 


Underwater, this ward deals half dam- 
age and creates a large cloud of steam. 
You can use the fire trapped object with- 
out discharging it, as can any individual to 
whom the object was specifically attuned 
when cast. Attuning a fire trapped object to 
an individual usually involves setting a 
password that you can share with friends. 
Note: Magic traps such as fire trap are 


‘hard to detect and disable. A rogue (only) 


can use the Search skill to find a fire trap 


and Disable Device to thwart it. The DC 


in each case is 25 + spell level (DC 27 fora 
druid’s fire trap or DC 29 for the arcane 
version). 

Material Component: A half-pound of 
gold dust (cost 25 gp) sprinkled on the 
warded object. 


Fireball 
Evocation [Fire] 
‘Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
‘Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
(Area: 20-ft-radius spread 
Duration: Instantaneous 


Saving Throw: Reflex half 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A fireball spell is an explosion of flame, 
that detonates with a low roar and deals. 
idé points of fire damage per caster level. 


(maximum 10d6) to every creature within 


the area. Unattended objects also take this, 


damage. The explosion creates almost no 


_pressure. 


You point your finger and determine 
the range (distance and height) at which 
the fireball is to burst. A glowing, pea- 
sized bead streaks from the pointing digit 
and, unless it impacts upon a material 


body or solid barrier prior to attaining the. 


prescribed range, blossoms into the fire- 
ball at that point. (An early impact results 
in an early detonation.) If you attempt to 
send the bead through a narrow passage, 
such as through an arrow slit, you must 
“hit” the opening with a ranged touch 
attack, or else the bead strikes the barrier 
and detonates prematurely. 

The fireball sets fire to combustibles 
and damages objects in the area. It can 
melt metals with low melting points, such 
as lead, gold, copper, silver, and bronze. If 
the damage caused to an interposing bar- 
rier shatters or breaks through it, the fire- 
ball may continue beyond the barrier if 
the area permits; otherwise it stops at the 
barrier just as any other spell effect does. 

Material Component: A tiny ball of bat 
guano and sulfur. 


Flame Arrow 


Transmutation [Fire] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Fifty projectiles, all of which 
must be in contact with each other at 
the time of casting 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You turn ammunition (such as arrows, | 


bolts, shuriken, and stones) into fiery pro- 
jectiles. Each piece of ammunition deals 
an extra 1d6 points of fire damage to any 
target it hits. A flaming projectile can 
easily ignite a flammable object or struc- 
ture, but it won't ignite a creature it 
strikes. 

Material Component: A drop of oil and a 
small piece of flint. 


Flame Blade 


Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Drd 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: Swordlike beam 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A 3-foot-long, blazing beam of red-hot fire 
springs forth from your hand. You wield 
this bladelike beam as if it were a scimitar. 
Attacks with the flame blade are melee 
touch attacks. The blade deals 1d8 points 
of fire damage +1 point per two caster 
levels (maximum +10). Since the blade is 
immaterial, your Strength modifier does 
not apply to the damage. A flame blade can 
ignite combustible materials such as 
parchment, straw, dry sticks, and cloth. 

The spell does not function under- 
water. 


Flame Strike 


Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Clr 5, Drd 4, Sun 5, War 5 
Components: V, S, DF 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 


Area: Cylinder (10-ft. radius, 40 ft. high) | 


Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Reflex half 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A flame strike produces a vertical column 
of divine fire roaring downward. The spell 
deals 1d6 points of damage per caster 
level (maximum 15d6). Half the damage 
is fire damage, but the other half results 
directly from divine power and is there- 
fore not subject to being reduced by 
resistance to fire-based attacks, such as 
that granted by protection from energy (fire), 
fire shield (chill shield), and similar magic. 


231 


. 


Flaming Sphere 
Evocation [Fire] 
Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: 5-ft-diameter sphere 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Reflex negates 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


[A burning globe of fire rolls in whichever 
(direction you point and burns those it 
strikes. It moves 30 feet per round. As part 
of this movement, it can ascend or jump 
up to 30 feet to strike a target. If it enters a 
space with a creature, it stops moving for 
the round and deals 2d6 points of fire 
damage to that creature, though a suc- 
cessful Reflex save negates that damage. A 
flaming sphere rolls over barriers less than 
4 feet tall, such as furniture and low walls. 
It ignites flammable substances it touches! 
and illuminates the same area as a torch 
would. | 
The sphere moves as long as you ac- 
tively direct it (a move action for you); 
otherwise, it merely stays at rest and 
burns. It can be extinguished by any 
means that would put out a normal fire of 
its size. The surface of the sphere has a 
spongy, yielding consistency and so does 
not cause damage except by its flame. It 
cannot push aside unwilling creatures or 
batter down large obstacles. A flaming 
sphere winks out if it exceeds the spell’s 
range. Bea) | 
Arcane Material Component: A bit of tal- 
low, a pinch of brimstone, and a dusting 
of powdered iron. 


ace -= 

| Evocation [Light] 

| Level: Brd 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 

| Components: V 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Burst of light 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This cantrip creates a burst of light. If you 
‚cause the light to burst directly in front of 
la single creature, that creature is dazzled 
for 1 minute unless it makes a successful 
| Fortitude save.Sightless creatures, as well 

as creatures already dazzled, are not 

affected by flare. 


Flesh to Stone 

Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One creature 


Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The subject, along with all its carried gear, 
turns into a mindless, inert statue. If the 
statue resulting from this spell is broken 
or damaged, the subject (if ever returned 
to its original state) has similar damage or 
deformities. The creature is not dead, but 
it does not seem to be alive either when 
viewed with spells such as deathwatch. 
‘Only creatures made of flesh are affected 
by this spell. 

Material Component: Lime, water, and 
earth. 


Fly 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3, Travel 3 
Components: V, S, F/DF 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

\Target: Creature touched 

|Duration: 1 min./level 

[Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject can fly at a speed of 60 feet (or 
40 feet if it wears medium or heavy armor, 


or if it carries a medium or heavy load). It) 
can ascend at half speed and descend at. 
double speed, and its maneuverability is. 


good. Using a fly spell requires only as 


‘much concentration as walking, so the 


‘subject can attack or cast spells normally. 
‘The subject of a fly spell can charge but 
not run, and it cannot carry aloft more 
weight than its maximum load, plus any 
armor it wears. 

Should the spell duration expire while 
the subject is still aloft, the magic fails 


slowly. The subject floats downward 60. 


feet per round for 1d6 rounds. If it 
reaches the ground in that amount of 
time, it lands safely. If not, it falls the rest 
of the distance, taking 1d6 points of 
damage per 10 feet of fall. Since dispelling 
a spell effectively ends it, the subject also 
descends in this way if the fly spell is dis- 
pelled, but not if it is negated by an 
antimagic field. 

Arcane Focus: A wing feather from any 


bird. 


Fog Cloud 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Water 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft. level) 

Effect: Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. 
high 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


A bank of fog billows out from the point 
you designate. The fog obscures all sight, 
including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A 
creature within 5 feet has concealment 
(attacks have a 20% miss chance). Crea- 
tures farther away have total concealment 
(50% miss chance, and the attacker can't 
use sight to locate the target). 

A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses | 
the fog in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+) 
mph) disperses the fog in 1 round. 

The spell does not function under- 
water. 


Forbiddance 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 6 

Components: V, S, M, DF 

Casting Time: 6 rounds 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 60-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Forbiddance seals an area against all planar 
travel into or within it. This includes all 
teleportation spells (such as dimension 
door and teleport), plane shifting, astral 
travel, ethereal travel, and all summon- 
ing spells. Such effects simply fail auto- 
matically. 

In addition, it damages entering crea- 
tures whose alignments are different 
from yours. The effect on those attempt- 
ing to enter the warded area is based on 
their alignment relative to yours (see 
below). A creature inside the area when 
the spell is cast takes no damage unless it 
exits the area and attempts to reenter, at 
which time it is affected as normal. 

Alignments identical: No effect. The crea- 
ture may enter the area freely (although 
not by planar travel). 

Alignments different with respect to either 
law/chaos or good/evil: The creature takes 
6d6 points of damage. A successful Will 
save halves the damage, and spell resist- 
ance applies. } 

Alignments different with respect to both | 
law/chaos and good/evil: The creature takes | 
12d6 points of damage. A successful Will 
save halves the damage, and spell resist- 
ance applies. 

At your option, the abjuration can 
include a password, in which case crea- 
tures of alignments different from yours 
can avoid the damage by speaking the 
password as they enter the area. You must 
select this option (and the password) at 
the time of casting. 

Dispel magic does not dispel a forbid- 
dance effect unless the dispeller’s level is 
at least as high as your caster level. 

You can't have multiple overlapping for- 
biddance effects. In such a case, the more 


recent effect stops at the boundary of the 
older effect. 

Material Component: A sprinkling of 
holy water and rare incenses worth at 
least 1,500 gp, plus 1,500 gp per 60-foot 
cube. If a password is desired, this re- 
quires the burning of additional rare in- 
censes worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 
gp per 60-foot cube. 


Forcecage 

| Evocation [Force] 

| Level: Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: Barred cage (20-ft. cube) or 

windowless cell (10-ft. cube) 

Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This powerful spell brings into being an, : 


immobile, invisible cubical prison com- 
posed of either bars of force or solid walls 
of force (your choice). | 
Creatures within the area are caught 
and contained unless they are too big to 
fit inside, in which case the spell automat- 
ically fails. Teleportation and other forms 
of astral travel provide a means of escape, 
but the force walls or bars extend into the 
Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel. 

Like a wall of force spell, a forcecage resists 
dispel magic, but it is vulnerable to a disinte- 
grate spell, and it can be destroyed by a 
sphere of annihilation or a rod of cancellation, 

Barred Cage: This version of the spell 

produces a 20-foot cube made of bands of 
force (similar to a wall of force spell) for 
| bars. The bands are a half-inch wide, with 
| half-inch gaps between them. Any crea- 
| ture capable of passing through such a 
| small space can escape; others are con- 
|fined. You can't attack a creature in a 
barred cage with a weapon unless the 
weapon can fit between the gaps. Even 
against such weapons (including arrows 
and similar ranged attacks), a creature in 
the barred cage has cover. All spells and 
breath weapons can pass through the gaps 
in the bars. 

Windowless Cell: This version of the 
| spell produces a 10-foot cube with no way 
lin and no way out. Solid walls of force 
| form its six sides. 

Material Component: Ruby dust worth 
1,500 gp, which is tossed into the air and 
disappears when you cast the spell. 


Foresight __ 
Divination 
Level: Drd 9, Knowledge 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch 
Target: See text 


Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(harmless) 

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless) 


This spell grants you a powerful sixth sense 
in relation to yourself or another. Once fore- 
sight is cast, you receive instantaneous 
warnings of impending danger or harm to 
ithe subject of the spell. Thus, if you are the 
subject of the spell, you would be warned 
lin advance if a rogue were about to attempt 
a sneak attack on you, or if a creature were 
about to leap out from a hiding place, or if 
an attacker were specifically targeting you 
with a spell or ranged weapon. You are 
never surprised or flat-footed. In addition, 
the spell gives you a general idea of what 
action you might take to best protect your- 
self—duck, jump right, close your eyes, 
and so on—and gives you a +2 insight 
bonus to AC and Reflex saves. This insight 
‘bonus is lost whenever you would lose a 
\Dexterity bonus to AC. 

When another creature is the subject of 
ithe spell, you receive warnings about that 
‘creature. You must communicate what 

you learn to the other creature for the 
warning to be useful, and the creature can 
be caught unprepared in the absence of 


such a warning. Shouting a warning, 
yanking a person back, and even telepath-| 
ically communicating (via an appropriate, 


spell) can all be accomplished before 


some danger befalls the subject, provided. 


you act on the warning without delay. The 
subject, however, does not gain the 
insight bonus to AC and Reflex saves. 

Arcane Material Component: A hum- 
mingbird’s feather. 


Fox’s Cunning_ 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The transmuted creature becomes smart- 
er. The spell grants a +4 enhancement 
bonus to Intelligence, adding the usual 
benefits to Intelligence-based skill 
checks and other uses of the Intelligence 
modifier. Wizards (and other spellcasters 
who rely on Intelligence) affected by this 
spell do not gain any additional bonus 
spells for the increased Intelligence, but 
the save DCs for spells they cast while 
under this spell’s effect do increase. This 
spell doesn't grant extra skill points. 

Arcane Material Component: A few hairs, 
or a pinch of dung, from a fox. 


Fox’s Cunning, Mass 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like fox’s cunning, | 
except that it affects multiple creatures. | 


Freedom 


Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) or 
see text 

Target: One creature 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


The subject is freed from spells and 
effects that restrict its movement, includ- 
ing binding, entangle, grappling, imprison- 
ment, maze, paralysis, petrification, pin- 
ning, sleep, slow, stunning, temporal stasis, 
and web. To free a creature from imprison- 
ment or maze, you must know its name 
and background, and you must cast this 
spell at the spot where it was entombed or 
banished into the maze. 


Freedom of Movement 


Abjuration 

Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 4, Luck 4, Rgr 4 
Components: V, S, M, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch 

Target: You or creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


This spell enables you or a creature you 
touch to move and attack normally for the 
duration of the spell, even under the 
influence of magic that usually impedes 
movement, such as paralysis, solid fog, slow, | 
and web. The subject automatically suc- | 
ceeds on any grapple check made to resist | 
a grapple attempt, as well as on grapple 
checks or Escape Artist checks made to 
escape a grapple or a pin. 

The spell also allows the subject to 
move and attack normally while under- 
water, even with slashing weapons such 
as axes and swords or with bludgeoning 
weapons such as flails, hammers, and 
maces, provided that the weapon is 
wielded in the hand rather than hurled. 
The freedom of movement spell does not, 
however, allow water breathing. 

Material Component: A leather thong, 
bound around the arm or a similar 
appendage. 


234 


Gaseous Form 


Transmutation 
Level: Air 3, Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Willing corporeal creature touched, 
Duration: 2 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


(The subject and all its gear become in- 
(substantial, misty, and translucent. Its 
material armor (including natural armor) 
becomes worthless, though its size, Dex- 
terity, deflection bonuses, and armor 
bonuses from force effects (for example, 
from the mage armor spell) still apply. The 
subject gains damage reduction 10/magic 
and becomes immune to poison and criti- 
cal hits. It can’t attack or cast spells with 
verbal, somatic, material, or focus compo- 
nents while in gaseous form. (This does, 
not rule out the use of certain spells that, 
the subject may have prepared using the 
feats Silent Spell, Still Spell, and Eschew, 
Materials.) The subject also loses super- 
natural abilities while in gaseous form. If 
it has a touch spell ready to use, that spell 
is discharged harmlessly when the gaseous 
form spell takes effect. 
A gaseous creature can't run, but it can 
fly at a speed of 10 feet (maneuverability 
perfect). It can pass through small holes 


or narrow openings, even mere cracks, 


with all it was wearing or holding in its 
hands, as long as the spell persists. The 
creature is subject to the effects of wind, 
and it can't enter water or other liquid. It 
also can't manipulate objects or activate 
items, even those carried along with its 
| gaseous form. Continuously active items 
| remain active, though in some cases their 
\effects may be moot (such as those that 
| supply armor or natural armor bonuses). 
| Arcane Material Component: A bit of 
gauze and a wisp of smoke. 


Gate 


Conjuration (Creation or Calling) 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, XP; see text 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
| Effect: See text -= 
| Duration: Instantaneous or concentra- 
tion (up to 1 round/level); see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


Casting a gate spell has two effects. First, it 
creates an interdimensional connection 
between your plane of existence and a 
plane you specify, allowing travel between 
those two planes in either direction. 
Second, you may then call a particular 
individual or kind of being through the gate. 


The gate itself is a circular hoop or disk from 
5 to 20 feet in diameter (caster’s choice), ori- 
ented in the direction you desire when it 
comes into existence (typically vertical and 
facing you). It is a two-dimensional window 
looking into the plane you specified when 
casting the spell, and anyone or anything 
that moves through is shunted instantly to 
the other side. 
__A gate has a front and a back. Creatures 
moving through the gate from the front are 
‘transported to the other plane; creatures 
‘moving through it from the back are not. 
Planar Travel: As a mode of planar 
travel, a gate spell functions much like a 
plane shift spell, except that the gate opens 
precisely at the point you desire (a cre- 
ation effect). Deities and other beings 
who rule a planar realm can prevent a gate 
from opening in their presence or per- 
sonal demesnes if they so desire. Travelers 
‘need not join hands with you—anyone 
‘who chooses to step through the portal is 
\transported. A gate cannot be opened to 
lanother point on the same plane; the spell 
\works only for interplanar travel. 
_ You could position a gate in a hallway in 
‘order to absorb any attack or force 
coming at you by shunting it to another 
plane. Whether the denizens of that plane 


appreciate this tactic is, of course, another, 


matter. 


You may hold the gate open only for al 


brief time (no more than 1 round per 


‘caster level), and you must concentrate on, 


‘doing so, or else the interplanar connec- 
tion is severed. = 
Calling Creatures: The second effect of 
the gate spell is to call an extraplanar crea- 
ture to your aid (a calling effect). By 
naming a particular being or kind of 
being as you cast the spell, you cause the 


gate to open in the immediate vicinity of 


the desired creature and pull the subject 
through, willing or unwilling. Deities and 
unique beings are under no compulsion 
to come through the gate, although they 
may choose to do so of their own accord. 
This use of the spell creates a gate that 
remains open just long enough to trans- 
port the called creatures. This use of the 
spell has an XP cost (see below). 

If you choose to call a kind of creature 
instead of a known individual—for in- 
stance, a bearded devil or a ghaele elad- 
rin—you may call either a single creature 
(of any HD) or several creatures. You can 
call and control several creatures as long 
as their HD total does not exceed your 
caster level. In the case of a single crea- 
ture, you can control it if its HD do not 
exceed twice your caster level. A single 
creature with more HD than twice your 
caster level can't be controlled. Deities 
and unique beings cannot be controlled 
in any event. An uncontrolled being acts 
as it pleases, making the calling of such 


creatures rather dangerous. An uncon- 
trolled being may return to its home 
plane at any time. 

A controlled creature can be com- 
manded to perform a service for you. 
Such services fall into two categories: 
immediate tasks and contractual service. 
Fighting for you in a single battle or tak-_ 
ing any other actions that can be accom- | 
plished within 1 round per caster level | 
counts as an immediate task; you need not 
make any agreement or pay any reward 
for the creature’s help. The creature 
departs at the end of the spell. 

If you choose to exact a longer or more 
involved form of service from a called 
creature, you must offer some fair trade in 
return for that service. The service 
exacted must be reasonable with respect 
to the promised favor or reward; see the 
lesser planar ally spell for appropriate 
rewards. (Some creatures may want their 
payment in “livestock” rather than in 
coin, which could involve complications.) 
Immediately upon completion of the 
service, the being is transported to your 
vicinity, and you must then and there 
turn over the promised reward. After this 
is done, the creature is instantly freed to 
return to its own plane. 

Failure to fulfill the promise to the 
letter results in your being subjected to 
service by the creature or by its liege and 
master, at the very least. At worst, the 
creature or its kin may attack you. 

Note: When you use a calling spell such 
as gate to call an air, chaotic, earth, evil, 
fire, good, lawful, or water creature, it 
becomes a spell of that type. For example, 
gate is a chaotic and evil spell when you 
cast it to call a demon. 

XP Cost: 1,000 XP (only for the calling 
creatures function). 


Geas/Quest 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language- 
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

‘Target: One living creature 

Saving Throw: None 


This spell functions similarly to lesser geas, 
except that it affects a creature of any HD 
and allows no saving throw. 

Instead of taking penalties to ability 
scores (as with lesser geas), the subject 
takes 3d6 points of damage each day it 
does not attempt to follow the geas/quest. 
Additionally, each day it must make a 
Fortitude saving throw or become sick- 
ened. These effects end 24 hours after the 
creature attempts to resume the geas/ 
quest. 

A remove curse spell ends a geas/quest 
spell only if its caster level is at least two 
higher than your caster level. Break en- 


chantment does not end a geas/quest, but 
limited wish, miracle, and wish do. 

Bards, sorcerers, and wizards usually 
refer to this spell as geas, while clerics call 
the same spell quest. 


Geas, Lesser | 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language-_ 
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 
| Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
_Components: V 
| Casting Time: 1 round 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature with 7 HD 
or less 
Duration: One day/level or until 
discharged (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A lesser geas places a magical command on 
a creature to carry out some service or to 


refrain from some action or course of 


activity, as desired by you. The creature 
must have 7 or fewer Hit Dice and be able 
to understand you. While a geas cannot, 
compel a creature to kill itself or perform 
acts that would result in certain death, it 
can cause almost any other course of activ- 
ity. The geased creature must follow the 
given instructions until the geas is com- 
pleted, no matter how long it takes. 

If the instructions involve some open- 
ended task that the recipient cannot com- 


plete through his own actions (such as_ 


“Wait here” or “Defend this area against 
attack”), the spell remains in effect for a 
maximum of one day per caster level. A 
clever recipient can subvert some in- 
structions: For example, if you order the 
_recipient to protect you from all harm, it 
| might place you in a nice, safe dungeon 
| for the duration of the spell. 
| Jf the subject is prevented from obey- 
| ing the lesser geas for 24 hours, it takes a —2 
penalty to each of its ability scores. Each 
day, another —2 penalty accumulates, up 
to a total of -8. No ability score can be re- 
duced to less than 1 by this effect. The 
ability score penalties are removed 24 
hours after the subject resumes obeying 
the lesser geas. 

A lesser geas (and all ability score penal- 
| ties) can be ended by break enchantment, 
| limited wish, remove curse, miracle, or wish. 
| Dispel magic does not affect a lesser geas. 
| 


Gentle Repose 

Necromancy 

Level: Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Corpse touched 

Duration: One day/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You preserve the remains of a dead crea- 
ture so that they do not decay. Doing so 
effectively extends the time limit on rais- 
ing that creature from the dead (see raise 
dead). Days spent under the influence of 
this spell don't count against the time 
limit. Additionally, this spell makes trans- 
porting a fallen comrade more pleasant. 

The spell also works on severed body 


(parts and the like. 


Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 


‘salt, and a copper piece for each eye the 


corpse has (or had). 


Ghost Sound 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Effect: Illusory sounds 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
(Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 


acted with) 


‘Spell Resistance: No 


‘Ghost sound allows you to create a volume 


of sound that rises, recedes, approaches, 
or remains at a fixed place. You choose 
what type of sound ghost sound creates 


when casting it and cannot thereafter 


change the sound's basic character. 


The volume of sound created depends 


on your level. You can produce as much 


noise as four normal humans per caster. 


level (maximum twenty humans). Thus, 


talking, singing, shouting, walking, 


marching, or running sounds can be cre- 
ated. The noise a ghost sound spell pro- 
duces can be virtually any type of sound 
within the volume limit. A horde of rats 
running and squeaking is about the same 


volume as eight humans running and) 


shouting. A roaring lion is equal to the 
noise from sixteen humans, while a roar- 
ing dire tiger is equal to the noise from 
twenty humans. 

Ghost sound can enhance the effective- 
ness of a silent image spell. 

Ghost sound can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A bit of wool or a 
small lump of wax. 


Ghoul Touch 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Living humanoid touched 
Duration: 1d6+2 rounds 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Imbuing you with negative energy, this 
spell allows you to paralyze a single living 


humanoid for the duration of the spell 
with a successful melee touch attack. 

Additionally, the paralyzed subject ex- 
udes a carrion stench that causes all living 
creatures (except you) in a 10-foot-radius 
spread to become sickened (Fortitude 
negates). A neutralize poison spell removes 
the effect from a sickened creature, and | 
creatures immune to poison are unaf-) 
fected by the stench. | 

Material Component: A small scrap of 
cloth taken from clothing worn by a 
ghoul, or a pinch of earth from a ghoul’s 
lair. 


Giant Vermin 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 4, Drd 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: Up to three vermin, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You turn three normal-sized centipedes, 
two normal-sized spiders, or a single 
normal-sized scorpion into larger forms. 
Only one type of vermin can be trans- 
muted (so a single casting cannot affect 
both a centipede and a spider), and all 
must be grown to the same size. The size 
to which the vermin can be grown de- 
pends on your level; see the table below. 
The Monster Manual has game statistics 
for centipedes, spiders, and scorpions, as 
well as other kinds of vermin. 

Any giant vermin created by this spell 
do not attempt to harm you, but your con- 
trol of such creatures is limited to simple 
commands (‘“Attack,” “Defend,” “Stop,” and 
so forth). Orders to attack a certain crea- 
ture when it appears or guard against a 
particular occurrence are too complex for 
the vermin to understand. Unless com- 
manded to do otherwise, the giant vermin 
attack whoever or whatever is near them. | 
|__The DM can extend this spell’s effects to | 
other kinds of insects, arachnids, or other | 
vermin, such as ants, bees, beetles, praying 
mantises, and wasps, if he so chooses. 


Caster Level Vermin Size 

9th or lower Medium 

10th—-13th Large 

14th-17th Huge 

18th-19th Gargantuan 

20th or higher Colossal 
Glibness 

Transmutation 

Level: Brd 3 


Components: S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 


Target: You 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 


Your speech becomes fluent and more 
believable. You gain a +30 bonus on Bluff 
checks made to convince another of the 
truth of your words. (This bonus doesn’t 
apply to other uses of the Bluff skill, such 
as feinting in combat, creating a diversion 
| to hide, or communicating a hidden mes- 
_sage via innuendo.) | 
Ifa magical effect is used against you 
| that would detect your lies or force you to 
speak the truth (such as discern lies or zone 
of truth), the user of the effect must suc- 
ceed on a caster level check (1d20 + caster 
level) against a DC of 15 + your caster 
level to succeed. Failure means the effect 
does not detect your lies or force you to 
speak only the truth. 


Glitterdust E 

Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Area: Creatures and objects within 10-ft.- 
radius spread 

Duration: 1round/level =< 

Saving Throw: Will negates (blinding 
only) 

Spell Resistance: No 


A cloud of golden particles covers every-_ 


one and everything in the area, causing 
creatures to become blinded and visibly, 
outlining invisible things for the duration 
of the spell. All within the area are covered 
by the dust, which cannot be removed and 

| continues to sparkle until it fades. 

|__ Any creature covered by the dust takes 

| a —40 penalty on Hide checks. 

| Material Component: Ground mica. 

Globe of Invulnerability 

Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 


This spell functions like lesser globe of 
invulnerability, except that it also excludes 
4th-level spells and spell-like effects. 


Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser 
| Abjuration 
| Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
| Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Area: 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, 
centered on you 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


An immobile, faintly shimmering magi- 
cal sphere surrounds you and excludes all 


spell effects of 3rd level or lower. The area 
or effect of any such spells does not 
include the area of the lesser globe of invul- 
nerability. Such spells fail to affect any 
target located within the globe. Excluded 
effects include spell-like abilities and 
spells or spell-like effects from items. 
However, any type of spell can be cast 
through or out of the magical globe. 
‘Spells of 4th level and higher are not 
affected by the globe, nor are spells 
already in effect when the globe is cast. 
‘The globe can be brought down by a tar- 
geted dispel magic spell, but not by an area 
dispel magic. You can leave and return to 
the globe without penalty. 

Note that spell effects are not disrupted 
unless their effects enter the globe, and 
even then they are merely suppressed, not 
dispelled. For example, creatures inside 
the globe would still see a mirror image 
\created by a caster outside the globe. If 
\that caster then entered the globe, the 
limages would wink out, to reappear when 
ithe caster exited the globe. Likewise, a 
\caster standing in the area of a light spell 
would still receive sufficient illumination 
for vision, even though that part of the 
light spell’s area that lies within the globe 
would not be luminous. 


If a given spell has more than one level 
depending on which character class is. 
casting it, use the level appropriate to the! 
caster to determine whether lesser globe of 


invulnerability stops it. 


Material Component: A glass or crystal 


bead that shatters at the expiration of the 
spell. 


Glyph of Warding 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Target or Area: Object touched or up to 
5 sq. ft./level 

Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No (object) and Yes; 
see text 


This powerful inscription harms those 
who enter, pass, or open the warded area 
or object. A glyph of warding can guard a 
bridge or passage, ward a portal, trap a 
chest or box, and so on. 

You set the conditions of the ward. Typ- 
ically, any creature entering the warded 
area or opening the warded object with- 
out speaking a password (which you set 
when casting the spell) is subject to the 
magic it stores. Alternatively or in addi- 
tion to a password trigger, glyphs can be 
set according to physical characteristics 
(such as height or weight) or creature 


type, subtype, or kind (such as aberration, 
drow, or red dragon). Glyphs can also be 
set with respect to good, evil, law, or 
chaos, or to pass those of your religion. 
They cannot be set according to class, Hit 
Dice, or level. Glyphs respond to invisible 
creatures normally but are not triggered 
by those who travel past them ethereally. | 
Multiple glyphs cannot be cast on the! 
same area. However, if a cabinet has three | 
drawers, each can be separately warded. 

When casting the spell, you weave a 
tracery of faintly glowing lines around 
the warding sigil. A glyph can be placed to 
conform to any shape up to the limita- 
tions of your total square footage. When 
the spell is completed, the glyph and trac- 
ery become nearly invisible. 

Glyphs cannot be affected or bypassed by 
such means as physical or magical probing, 
though they can be dispelled. Mislead, poly- 
morph, and nondetection (and similar magi- 
cal effects) can fool a glyph, though non- 
magical disguises and the like can't. 

Read magic allows you to identify a 
glyph of warding with a DC 13 Spellcraft 
check. Identifying the glyph does not dis- 
charge it and allows you to know the basic 
nature of the glyph (version, type of 
damage caused, what spell is stored). 

The DM may decide that the exact glyphs 
available to you depend on your deity. He 
or she might also make new glyphs available 
according to the magical research rules in 
the Dungeon Master's Guide. 

Note: Magic traps such as glyph of ward- 
ing are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find the 
glyph and Disable Device to thwart it. The 
DC in each case is 25 + spell level, or 28 
for glyph of warding. 
|__ Depending on the version selected, a 
glyph either blasts the intruder or activates 
a spell. 

Blast Glyph: A blast glyph deals 1d8 
points of damage per two caster levels 
(maximum 5d8) to the intruder and to all 
within 5 feet of him or her. This damage is 
acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic (cast- | 
er's choice, made at time of casting). Each | 
creature affected can attempt a Reflex | 
save to take half damage. Spell resistance 
applies against this effect. 

Spell Glyph: You can store any harmful 
spell of 3rd level or lower that you know. 
All level-dependent features of the spell 
are based on your caster level at the time 
of casting the glyph. If the spell has a 
target, it targets the intruder. If the spell 
has an area or an amorphous effect (such 
as a cloud), the area or effect is centered 
on the intruder. If the spell summons 
creatures, they appear as close as possible 
to the intruder and attack. Saving throws 
and spell resistance operate as normal, 
except that the DC is based on the level of 
the spell stored in the glyph. 


Material Component: You trace the glyph 
with incense, which must first be sprin- 
kled with powdered diamond worth at 
least 200 gp. 


Glyph of Warding, Greater 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 6 


This spell functions like glyph of warding, 
_except that a greater blast glyph deals up to 
| 10d8 points of damage, and a greater spell 
| glyph can store a spell of 6th level or lower. 
Material Component: You trace the glyph 
with incense, which must first be sprin- 
kled with powdered diamond worth at 
least 400 gp. 


Goodberry 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd1 

Components: V, S DEF č 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch Ez 
Targets: 2d4 fresh berries touched | 
Duration: One day/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Casting goodberry upon a handful of freshly 
picked berries makes 2d4 of them magical. 
You (as well as any other druid of 3rd or 
higher level) can immediately discern 
which berries are affected. Each transmuted 
berry provides nourishment as if it were a 
normal meal for a Medium creature. The 
berry also cures 1 point of damage when 
eaten, subject to a maximum of 8 points of 
such curing in any 24-hour period. 


Good Hope 
| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
| Level: Brd 3 
i Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One living creature/level, no 
two of which may be more than 30 ft. 
apart 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


| This spell instills powerful hope in the 
| subjects. Each affected creature gains a +2 
| morale bonus on saving throws, attack 
rolls, ability checks, skill checks, and 
weapon damage rolls. | 
Good hope counters and dispels crushing 
despair. 


Grease 

Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target or Area: One object or a 10-ft. 
square 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


A grease spell covers a solid surface with a 
layer of slippery grease. Any creature in 


ithe area when the spell is cast must make 


a successful Reflex save or fall. This save is 


‘repeated on your turn each round that the 


creature remains within the area. A crea- 
ture can walk within or through the area 
of grease at half normal speed with a DC 
10 Balance check. Failure means it can't 
move that round (and must then make a 
Reflex save or fall), while failure by 5 or 
more means it falls (see the Balance skill 
for details). 

The DM should adjust saving throws 


\by circumstance. For example, a creature 
\charging down an incline that is suddenly 
‘greased has little chance to avoid the 
leffect, but its ability to exit the affected 
‘area is almost assured (whether it wants to 
or not). 


The spell can also be used to create a 
greasy coating on an item—a rope, ladder 
rungs, or a weapon handle, for instance. 


Material objects not in use are always af- 
fected by this spell, while an object. 
wielded or employed by a creature re- 


ceives a Reflex saving throw to avoid the 


effect. If the initial saving throw fails, the. 


creature immediately drops the item. A 


‚saving throw must be made in each round 


that the creature attempts to pick up or 
use the greased item. A creature wearing 
greased armor or clothing gains a +10 cir- 
cumstance bonus on Escape Artist checks 
and on grapple checks made to resist or 
escape a grapple or to escape a pin. 


Material Component: A bit of pork rind 


or butter. 


Greater (Spell Name) 


Any spell whose name begins with greater 
is alphabetized in this chapter according to 
the second word of the spell name. Thus, 
the description of a greater spell appears 
near the description of the spell on which 
it is based. Spell chains that have greater 
spells in them include those based on the 
spells arcane sight, command, dispel magic, 
glyph of warding, invisibility, magic fang, 
magic weapon, planar ally, planar binding, 
prying eyes, restoration, scrying, shadow conju- 
ration, shadow evocation, shout, and teleport. 


Guards and Wards 


Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M, F 

Casting Time: 30 minutes 

Range: Anywhere within the area to be 
warded 


Area: Up to 200 sq. ft./level (S) 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: See text 


This powerful spell is primarily used to 
defend your stronghold. The ward protects 


200 square feet per caster level. The warded | 
area can be as much as 20 feet high, and) 
shaped as you desire. You can ward several | 


stories of a stronghold by dividing the area 
among them; you must be somewhere 
within the area to be warded to cast the 
spell. The spell creates the following magi- 
cal effects within the warded area. 

Fog: Fog fills all corridors, obscuring all 
sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. 
A creature within 5 feet has concealment 
(attacks have a 20% miss chance). Crea- 
tures farther away have total concealment 
(50% miss chance, and the attacker cannot 
use sight to locate the target). Saving 
Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No. 

Arcane Locks: All doors in the warded 
area are arcane locked. Saving Throw: 
None. Spell Resistance: No. 

Webs: Webs fill all stairs from top to 
bottom. These strands are identical with 
those created by the web spell, except that 
they regrow in 10 minutes if they are burned 
or torn away while the guards and wards spell 
lasts. Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text 
for web. Spell Resistance: No. 

Confusion: Where there are choices in 
direction—such as a corridor intersec- 
tion or side passage—a minor confusion- 
type effect functions so as to make it 50% 
probable that intruders believe they are 
going in the opposite direction from the 
one they actually chose. This is an en- 
chantment, mind-affecting effect. Saving 
Throw: None. Spell Resistance: Yes. 

Lost Doors: One door per caster level is 
covered by a silent image to appear as if it 
were a plain wall. Saving Throw: Will dis- 
belief (if interacted with). Spell Resist- 
ance: No. 

In addition, you can place your choice 


of one of the following five magical 


effects. 


1. Dancing lights in four corridors. You | 


can designate a simple program that 
causes the lights to repeat as long as the 
guards and wards spell lasts. Saving Throw: 
None. Spell Resistance: No. 

2. A magic mouth in two places. Saving 
Throw: None. Spell Resistance: No. 

3. A stinking cloud in two places. The 
vapors appear in the places you designate; 
they return within 10 minutes if dis- 
persed by wind while the guards and wards 
spell lasts. Saving Throw: Fortitude 
negates; see text for stinking cloud. Spell 
Resistance: No. 

4. A gust of wind in one corridor or 
room. Saving Throw: Fortitude negates. 
Spell Resistance: Yes. 


237 


. 


238 


5. A suggestion in one place. You select an 
area of up to 5 feet square, and any creature 
who enters or passes through the area 
receives the suggestion mentally. Saving 
Throw: Will negates. Spell Resistance: Yes. 

The whole warded area radiates strong 
magic of the abjuration school. A dispel 
magic cast on a specific effect, if success- 
ful, removes only that effect. A successful 

_Mordenkainen’s disjunction destroys the 
_entire guards and wards effect. | 
Material Component: Burning incense, a 
ismall measure of brimstone and oil, a 
knotted string, and a small amount of 
umber hulk blood. 


Focus: A small silver rod. 


Guidance 


Divination 

Level: Clr 0, Drd 0 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched | 
Duration: 1 minute or until discharged | 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) | 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


4—4 


This spell imbues the subject with a touch 
of divine guidance. The creature gets a +1 
competence bonus on a single attack roll, 
saving throw, or skill check. It must 
choose to use the bonus before making 
the roll to which it applies. 


Gust of Wind 


Evocation [Air] | 
Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
, Range: 60 ft. 
| Effect: Line-shaped gust of severe wind 
emanating out from you to the ex- 
| treme of the range 
| Duration: 1 round 
| Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell creates a severe blast of air (ap- 
proximately 50 mph) that originates from 
you, affecting all creatures in its path. 

A Tiny or smaller creature on the 
ground is knocked down and rolled 

1d4x10 feet, taking 1d4 points of non- 
| lethal damage per 10 feet. If flying, a Tiny 
Lor smaller creature is blown back 2d6x10 
(feet and takes 2d6 points of nonlethal 

damage due to battering and buffeting. 

Small creatures are knocked prone by 
the force of the wind, or if flying are 
blown back 1d6x10 feet. 

Medium creatures are unable to move 
forward against the force of the wind, or if 
flying are blown back 1d6x5 feet. 

Large or larger creatures may move 
normally within a gust of wind effect. 


A gust of wind can’t move a creature 
beyond the limit of its range. 

Any creature, regardless of size, takes a 
—4 penalty on ranged attacks and Listen 
checks in the area of a gust of wind. 

The force of the gust automatically ex- 
tinguishes candles, torches, and similar 
unprotected flames. It causes protected 
flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance 
wildly and has a 50% chance to extinguish 
those lights. 

In addition to the effects noted, a gust of 
wind can do anything that a sudden blast 
of wind would be expected to do. It can 
create a stinging spray of sand or dust, fan 
a large fire, overturn delicate awnings or 
hangings, heel over a small boat, and blow 
gases or vapors to the edge of its range. 

Gust of wind can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Hallow 


\Evocation [Good] 

\Level: Clr 5, Drd 5 
Components: V, S, M, DF 

[Casting Time: 24 hours 

‘Range: Touch 

‘Area: 40-ft. radius emanating from the 

touched point 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: See text 


Hallow makes a particular site, building, 
‘or structure a holy site. This has four 


‘major effects. 
__ First, the site or structure is guarded by 
a magic circle against evil effect. 

Second, all Charisma checks made to 
turn undead gain a +4 sacred bonus, and 
Charisma checks to command undead 
take a —4 penalty. Spell resistance does not 


apply to this effect. (This provision does, 


not apply to the druid version of the spell.) 

Third, any dead body interred in a hal- 
lowed site cannot be turned into an 
undead creature. 

Finally, you may choose to fix a single 
spell effect to the hallowed site. The spell 
effect lasts for one year and functions 
throughout the entire site, regardless of 
the normal duration and area or effect. You 
may designate whether the effect applies 
to all creatures, creatures who share your 
faith or alignment, or creatures who 
adhere to another faith or alignment. For 
example, you may create a bless effect that 
aids all creatures of your alignment or faith 
in the area, or a bane effect that hinders 
creatures of the opposed alignment or an 
enemy faith. At the end of the year, the 
chosen effect lapses, but it can be renewed 
or replaced simply by casting hallow again. 

Spell effects that may be tied to a hal- 
lowed site include aid, bane, bless, cause fear, 
darkness, daylight, death ward, deeper dark- 
ness, detect evil, detect magic, dimensional an- 


chor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure elements, 
freedom of movement, invisibility purge, protec- 
tion from energy, remove fear, resist energy, 
silence, tongues, and zone of truth. Saving 
throws and spell resistance might apply to 
these spells’ effects. (See the individual 
spell descriptions for details.) 

An area can receive only one hallow spell 
(and its associated spell effect) at a time. | 

Hallow counters but does not dispel | 
unhallow. 

Material Component: Herbs, oils, and 
incense worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 
gp per level of the spell to be included in 
the hallowed area. 


Hallucinatory Terrain 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: One 30-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with) 

Spell Resistance: No 


You make natural terrain look, sound, and 
smell like some other sort of natural ter- 
rain. Thus, open fields or a road can be 
made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, 
or some other difficult or impassable ter- 
rain. A pond can be made to seem like a 
grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle 
slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide 
and smooth road. Structures, equipment, 
and creatures within the area are not hid- 
den or changed in appearance. 

Material Component: A stone, a twig, and 
a bit of green plant. 


Halt Undead 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Targets: Up to three undead creatures, 
no two of which can be more than 30 
ft. apart 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (see text) 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell renders as many as three undead 
creatures immobile. A nonintelligent un- 
dead creature (such as a skeleton or 
zombie) gets no saving throw; an intelli- 
gent undead creature does. If the spell is 
successful, it renders the undead creature 
immobile for the duration of the spell (as if 
the creature had been paralyzed). The effect 
is broken if the halted creatures are attacked 
or take damage. 

Material Component: A pinch of sulfur 
and powdered garlic. 


Harm 

Necromancy 

Level: Clr 6, Destruction 6 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will half; see text 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| Harm charges a subject with negative en- 
Lergy that deals 10 points of damage per 
caster level (to a maximum of 150 points 
at 15th level). If the creature successfully 
saves, harm deals half this amount, but it 
cannot reduce the target's hit points to 

less than 1. 
If used on an undead creature, harm 


acts like heal. 


Haste E 

Transmutation 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 1 round/level = 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
less) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The transmuted creatures move and act 
more quickly than normal. This extra 
speed has several effects. ani 

When making a full attack action, a 
hasted creature may make one extra attack 
with any weapon he is holding. The attack 
is made using the creature's full base attack 

| bonus, plus any modifiers appropriate to 

| the situation. (This effect is not cumula- 
| tive with similar effects, such as that pro- 

| vided by a weapon of speed, nor does it 
actually grant an extra action, so you can't 
use it to cast a second spell or otherwise 
take an extra action in the round.) 

A hasted creature gains a +1 bonus on 
attack rolls and a +1 dodge bonus to AC 
and Reflex saves. Any condition that 
makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to 
Armor Class (if any) also makes you lose 

| dodge bonuses. a 

| __All of the hasted creature’s modes of 

| movement (including land movement, 

| burrow, climb, fly, and swim) increase by 
30 feet, to a maximum of twice the sub- 
ject’s normal speed using that form of 
movement. This increase counts as an 
enhancement bonus, and it affects the 
creature's jumping distance as normal for 
increased speed. 

Multiple haste effects don't stack. Haste 
dispels and counters slow. 

Material Component: A shaving of lico- 
rice root. 


Heal 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Clr 6, Drd 7, Healing 6 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


‘Heal enables you to channel positive en- 
ergy into a creature to wipe away injury 
and afflictions. It immediately ends any 
and all of the following adverse condi- 
tions affecting the target: ability damage, 
blinded, confused, dazed, dazzled, deaf- 
ened, diseased, exhausted, fatigued, feeble- 
minded, insanity, nauseated, sickened, 
stunned, and poisoned. It also cures 10 hit 
‚points of damage per level of the caster, to 
la maximum of 150 points at 15th level. 

Heal does not remove negative levels, 
irestore permanently drained levels, or re- 


|store permanently drained ability score 


(points. 
| Ifused against an undead creature, heal 
instead acts like harm. 


Heal, Mass 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Clr 9, Healing 9 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: One or more creatures, no two 


of which can be more than 30 ft. apart | 


This spell functions like heal, except as 
noted above. The maximum number of 
hit points restored to each creature is 250. 


Heal Mount 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Pal 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Your mount touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


This spell functions like heal, but it affects 
only the paladin’s special mount (typically 
a warhorse). 


Heat Metal 


Transmutation [Fire] 

Level: Drd 2, Sun 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: Metal equipment of one 
creature/two levels, no two of which 
can be more than 30 ft. apart; or 25 Ib. 
of metal/level, all of which must be 
within a 30-ft. circle 

Duration: 7 rounds 


Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


Heat metal makes metal extremely warm. 
Unattended, nonmagical metal gets no 
saving throw. Magical metal is allowed a 
saving throw against the spell. (Magic 
items’ saving throws are covered in the. 
Dungeon Master’s Guide.) An item in a crea- | 
ture’s possession uses the creature’s| 
saving throw bonus unless its own is 
higher. 

A creature takes fire damage if its 
equipment is heated. It takes full damage 
if its armor is affected or if it is holding, 
touching, wearing, or carrying metal 
weighing one-fifth of its weight. The crea- 
ture takes minimum damage (1 point or 2 
points; see the table) if it’s not wearing 
metal armor and the metal that it’s carry- 
ing weighs less than one-fifth of its 
weight. 

On the first round of the spell, the 
metal becomes warm and uncomfortable 
to touch but deals no damage. The same 
effect also occurs on the last round of the 
spell’s duration. During the second (and 
also the next-to-last) round, intense heat 
causes pain and damage. In the third, 
fourth, and fifth rounds, the metal is sear- 
ing hot, causing more damage, as shown 
on the table below. 


| Metal 

Round Temperature Damage 

1 Warm None 

2 Hot 1d4 points 
3-5 Searing 2d4 points 
6 Hot 1d4 points 
if Warm None 


‘Any cold intense enough to damage the 
creature negates fire damage from the 
spell (and vice versa) on a point-for-point 
basis. For example, if the damage roll 
from a heat metal spell indicates 2 points 
of fire damage and the subject is hit by a 
ray of frost in the same round and takes 3 
points of cold damage, it winds up taking, 
no fire damage and only 1 point of cold | 
damage. If cast underwater, heat metal | 
deals half damage and boils the surround- 
ing water. 

Heat metal counters and dispels chill 
metal. 


Helping Hand 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 5 miles 

Effect: Ghostly hand 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You create the ghostly image of a hand, 
which you can send to find a creature 
within 5 miles. The hand then beckons to 
that creature and leads it to you if the crea- 
ture is willing to follow. 

When the spell is cast, the hand ap- 
pears in front of you. You then specify a 
person (or any creature) by physical de- 
scription, which can include race, gender, 
and appearance but not ambiguous fac- 
tors such as level, alignment, or class. 
When the description is complete, the 
hand streaks off in search of a subject that 
fits the description. The amount of time it 
takes to find the subject depends on how 
far away she is. 


Distance Time to Locate 
100 ft. or less 1 round 

1,000 ft. 1 minute 

1 mile 10 minutes 

2 miles 1 hour 

3 miles 2 hours 

4 miles 3 hours 

5 miles 4 hours 


Once the hand locates the subject, it beck- 
ons the creature to follow it. If the subject 
does so, the hand points in your direction, 
indicating the most direct feasible route. The 
hand hovers 10 feet in front of the subject, 
moving before it at a speed of as much as 240 
feet per round. Once the hand leads the sub- 
ject back to you, it disappears. 

The subject is not compelled to follow 
the hand or act in any particular way to- 
ward you. If the subject chooses not to 
follow, the hand continues to beckon 
for the duration of the spell, then 
disappears. If the spell expires 
while the subject is en route to 
you, the hand disappears; the sub- 
ject must then rely on her own devices 
to locate you. 

If more than one sub- 
ject in a 5-mile radius 


Picky 
Z000 

Fozan casts holy smite 
against a succubus. 


meets the description, the hand locates 
the closest creature. If that creature 
refuses to follow the hand, the hand does 
not seek out a second subject. 

If, at the end of 4 hours of searching, 
the hand has found no subject that 
matches the description within 5 miles, it 
returns to you, displays an outstretched 
palm (indicating that no such creature 
was found), and disappears. 

The ghostly hand has no physical form. 
It is invisible to anyone except you and a 
potential subject. It cannot engage in 
combat or execute any other task aside 
from locating a subject and leading it 
back to you. The hand can't pass through 
solid objects but can ooze through small 
cracks and slits. The hand cannot travel 
more than 5 miles from the spot it ap- 
peared when you cast the spell. 


Heroes’ Feast 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 6 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Feast for one creature/level 
Duration: 1 hour plus 12 hours; see text 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You bring forth a great feast, including a 
magnificent table, chairs, service, and 
food and drink. The feast 


aW é = 
ee a a es 


Ti -eà 
me TAn O 


> ~ 
~.4 Stet r a 


takes 1 hour to consume, and the benefi- 
cial effects do not set in until this hour is 
over. Every creature partaking of the feast 
is cured of all diseases, sickness, and 
nausea; becomes immune to poison for 12 
hours; and gains 1d8 temporary hit points 
+1 point per two caster levels (maximum 
+10) after imbibing the nectarlike bever- 
age that is part of the feast. The ambrosial 
food that is consumed grants each crea- 
ture that partakes a +1 morale bonus on 
attack rolls and Will saves and immunity 
to fear effects for 12 hours. 

If the feast is interrupted for any rea- 
son, the spell is ruined and all effects of 
the spell are negated. 


Heroism 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


This spell imbues a single 

creature with great bravery 

and morale in battle. 

£ The target gains a +2 

morale bonus on attack 

© rolls, saves, and skill 
A, checks. 


. 
t Ti 
yD) 


Heroism, Greater 
Enchantment 
(Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6 

Duration: 1 min./level 


This spell functions like heroism, except 
the creature gains a +4 morale bonus on 

attack rolls, saves, and skill 
_ checks, immunity to fear 


\ 


AA effects, and temporary 


hit points equal to your 
. caster level (maxi- 


mum 20). 


= 


Hide from Animals 

Abjuration 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: One creature touched/level 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) | 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) | 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| Animals cannot see, hear, or smell the 
| warded creatures. Even extraordinary or 
supernatural sensory capabilities, such as 
blindsense, blindsight, scent, and tremor- 
sense, cannot detect or locate warded crea- 
tures. Animals simply act as though the 
warded creatures are not there. Warded 
creatures could stand before the hungriest 
of lions and not be molested or even 
noticed. If a warded character touches an 
animal or attacks any creature, even with a 


spell, the spell ends for all recipients. 


Hide from Undead 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 1 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch p FAR 
Targets: One touched creature/level 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); 

see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Undead cannot see, hear, or smell the 
warded creatures. Even extraordinary or 
supernatural sensory capabilities, such as 
blindsense, blindsight, scent, and tremor- 
_sense, cannot detect or locate warded 
| creatures. Nonintelligent undead crea- 
| tures are automatically affected and act as 
|though the warded creatures are not 
| there. An intelligent undead creature gets 
la single Will saving throw. If it fails, the 
subject can't see any of the warded crea- 
tures. However, if it has reason to believe 
unseen opponents are present, it can at- 
tempt to find or strike them. 

If a warded creature attempts to turn or 
command undead, touches an undead 
creature, or attacks any creature (even 

with a spell), the spell ends for all recipi- 
_ents. 


Hold Animal 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Animal 2, Drd 2, Rgr 2 
Components: V, S 
Target: One animal 


This spell functions like hold person, ex- 
cept that it affects an animal instead of a 
humanoid. _ 


Hold Monster 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 4, Law 6, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Target: One living creature 


This spell functions like hold person, ex- 
cept that it affects any living creature that 
fails its Will save. 

Arcane Material Component: One hard 
‘metal bar or rod, which can be as small as 
a three-penny nail. 


Hold Monster, Mass 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 
Targets: One or more creatures, no two 
of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like hold person, ex- 
‘cept that it affects multiple creatures and 
‘holds any living creature that fails its Will 
save. 


Hold Person 

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, F/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One humanoid creature 
Duration: 1 round/level (D); see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The subject becomes paralyzed and 
freezes in place. It is aware and breathes 
normally but cannot take any actions, 
even speech. Each round on its turn, the 


subject may attempt a new saving throw 


to end the effect. (This is a full-round 
action that does not provoke attacks of 
opportunity.) 

A winged creature who is paralyzed 
cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer 
can’t swim and may drown. 

Arcane Focus: A small, straight piece of 
iron. 


Hold Person, Mass 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Targets: One or more humanoid crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like hold person, ex- 
cept as noted above. 


Hold Portal 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Component: V 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One portal, up to 20 sq. ft./level 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell magically holds shut a door, 
gate, window, or shutter of wood, metal, or | 
stone. The magic affects the portal just as if | 
it were securely closed and normally 
locked. A knock spell or a successful dispel 
magic spell can negate a hold portal spell. 
For a portal affected by this spell, add 5 to 
the normal DC for forcing open the portal. 


Holy Aura 
Abjuration [Good] 
Level: Clr 8, Good 8 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 20 ft. 
Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.- 

radius burst centered on you 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


A brilliant divine radiance surrounds the 
subjects, protecting them from attacks, 
granting them resistance to spells cast by 
evil creatures, and causing evil creatures 
to become blinded when they strike the 
subjects. This abjuration has four effects. 

First, each warded creature gains a +4 
deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resistance 
bonus on saves. Unlike protection from evil, 
this benefit applies against all attacks, not 
just against attacks by evil creatures. 

Second, each warded creature gains 
spell resistance 25 against evil spells and 
spells cast by evil creatures. 

Third, the abjuration blocks possession 
and mental influence, just as protection 
from evil does. 

Finally, if an evil creature succeeds on a 
melee attack against a warded creature, 
the offending attacker is blinded (Forti- 
tude save negates, as blindness/deafness, but | 
against holy aura’s save DC). | 

Focus: A tiny reliquary containing some | 
sacred relic, such as a scrap of cloth from 
a saint’s robe or a piece of parchment 
from a holy text. The reliquary costs at 
least 500 gp. 


Holy Smite 
Evocation [Good] 
Level: Good 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius burst 
Duration: Instantaneous (1 round); see 

text 

Saving Throw: Will partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You draw down holy power to smite your 
enemies. Only evil and neutral creatures 
are harmed by the spell; good creatures 
are unaffected. 

The spell deals 1d8 points of damage 
per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to 
each evil creature in the area (or 1d6 
points of damage per caster level, maxi- 
mum 10d6, to an evil outsider) and causes 

Lit to become blinded for 1 round. A suc- 
cessful Will saving throw reduces damage 
[to half and negates the blinded effect. 

The spell deals only half damage to 
creatures who are neither good nor evil, 
and they are not blinded. Such a creature 
can reduce that damage by half (down to 
one-quarter of the roll) with a successful 
Will save. 


Holy Sword 

Evocation [Good]. 

Level: Pal 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Melee weapon touched 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell allows you to channel holy power 
into your sword, or any other melee weapon 
you choose. The weapon acts as a +5 holy 
weapon (+5 enhancement bonus on attack 


and damage rolls, extra 2d6 damage against 


evil opponents). It also emits a magic circle 

against evil effect (as the spell). If the magic 

circle ends, the sword creates a new one on 

your turn as a free action. The spell is auto- 

matically canceled 1 round after the 
_weapon leaves your hand. You cannot have 
| more than one holy sword at a time. 

If this spell is cast on a magic weapon, 
| the powers of the spell supersede any that 
| the weapon normally has, rendering the 
| normal enhancement bonus and powers 

of the weapon inoperative for the dura- 
tion of the spell. This spell is not cumula- 
tive with bless weapon or any other spell 
that might modify the weapon in any way. 
This spell does not work on artifacts. 
Note: A masterwork weapon's bonus to 
attack does not stack with an enhance- 
| ment bonus to attack. 


Holy Word 
| Evocation [Good, Sonic] 
Level: Clr 7, Good 7 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 40 ft. 
Area: Nongood creatures in a 40-ft- 
radius spread centered on you 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Any nongood creature within the area 
that hears the holy word suffers the follow- 
ing ill effects. 


HD Effect 
Equal to caster level Deafened 
Up to caster level -1 Blinded, deafened 
Up to caster level —5 Paralyzed, blinded, 
deafened 

Killed, paralyzed, 
blinded, deafened 


Up to caster level -10 


‘The effects are cumulative and concur- 
rent. No saving throw is allowed against 
these effects. 

Deafened: The creature is deafened for 
1d4 rounds. 

Blinded: The creature is blinded for 2d4 
rounds. 

Paralyzed: The creature is paralyzed and 
helpless for 1d10 minutes. 

Killed: Living creatures die. Undead 
\creatures are destroyed. 
| Furthermore, if you are on your home 
{plane when you cast this spell, nongood 
‘extraplanar creatures within the area are 
instantly banished back to their home 
‘planes. Creatures so banished cannot 
return for at least 24 hours. This effect 
takes place regardless of whether the crea- 


tures hear the holy word. The banishment. 
effect allows a Will save (at a —4 penalty). 


to negate. 


Creatures whose HD exceed your cast- 


ler level are unaffected by holy word. 


Horrid Wilting 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Water 8 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Targets: Living creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 60 ft. apart 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude half 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell evaporates moisture from the 
body of each subject living creature, deal- 
ing 1d6 points of damage per caster level 
(maximum 20d6). This spell is especially 
devastating to water elementals and plant 
creatures, which instead take 1d8 points of 
damage per caster level (maximum 20d8). 

Arcane Material Component: A bit of 
sponge. 


Hypnotic Pattern 


Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V (Brd only), S, M; see 
text 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Colorful lights in a 10-ft-radius 
spread 


Duration: Concentration + 2 rounds 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A twisting pattern of subtle, shifting 

colors weaves through the air, fascinating 

creatures within it. Roll 2d4 and add your 

caster level (maximum 10) to determine | 
the total number of Hit Dice of creatures | 
affected. Creatures with the fewest HD | 
are affected first; and, among creatures 

with equal HD, those who are closest to 

the spell’s point of origin are affected first. 

Hit Dice that are not sufficient to affect a 

creature are wasted. Affected creatures 

become fascinated by the pattern of 
colors. Sightless creatures are not 

affected. 

A wizard or sorcerer need not utter a 
sound to cast this spell, but a bard must 
sing, play music, or recite a rhyme as a 
verbal component. 

Material Component: A glowing stick of 
incense or a crystal rod filled with phos- 
phorescent material. 


Hypnotism 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: Several living creatures, no two 
of which may be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 2d4 rounds (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Your gestures and droning incantation 
fascinate nearby creatures, causing them 
to stop and stare blankly at you. In addi- 
tion, you can use their rapt attention to 
make your suggestions and requests seem 
more plausible. Roll 2d4 to see how many 
total Hit Dice of creatures you affect. 
Creatures with fewer HD are affected 
before creatures with more HD. Only 
creatures that can see or hear you are. 
affected, but they do not need to under- | 
stand you to be fascinated. | 

If you use this spell in combat, each 
target gains a +2 bonus on its saving 
throw. If the spell affects only a single 
creature not in combat at the time, the 
saving throw has a penalty of —2. 

While the subject is fascinated by this 
spell, it reacts as though it were two steps 
more friendly in attitude (see Influencing 
NPC Attitudes, page 72). This allows you 
to make a single request of the affected 
creature (provided you can communicate 
with it). The request must be brief and rea- 
sonable. Even after the spell ends, the 
creature retains its new attitude toward 
you, but only with respect to that particu- 
lar request. 


A creature that fails its saving throw 
does not remember that you enspelled it. 


Ice Storm 
Evocation [Cold] 
Level: Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 4, Water 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) | 
| Area: Cylinder (20-ft. radius, 40 ft. high) | 
| Duration: 1 round 
| Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


Great magical hailstones pound down for 
1 full round, dealing 3d6 points of blud- 
geoning damage and 2d6 points of cold 
damage to every creature in the area. A —4 
penalty applies to each Listen check made 
within the ice storm’s effect, and all land 
movement within its area is at half speed. 
At the end of the duration, the hail disap- 


pears, leaving no aftereffects (other than! 


the damage dealt). =i 
Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 
dust and a few drops of water. 


Identify 
Divination 
Level: Brd 1, Magic 2, Sor/Wiz1 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 hour 
Range: Touch 
Target: One touched object 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


The spell determines all magic properties 
of a single magic item, including how to 
_activate those functions (if appropriate), 
| and how many charges are left (if any). 
Identify does not function when used 
lon an artifact (see the Dungeon Master’s 
| Guide for details on artifacts). 

Arcane Material Component: A pearl of at 
least 100 gp value, crushed and stirred 
into wine with an owl feather; the infu- 
sion must be drunk prior to spellcasting. 


Illusory Script 
Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
| Components: V, S, M y 
| Casting Time: 1 minute or longer; see 
| text 
| Range: Touch 
Target: One touched object weighing no 
more than 10 lb. 
Duration: One day/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You write instructions or other informa- 
tion on parchment, paper, or any suitable 
writing material. The illusory script appears 
to be some form of foreign or magical 


writing. Only the person (or people) des- 
ignated by you at the time of the casting 
are able to read the writing; it’s unintelli- 
gible to any other character, although an 
illusionist recognizes it as illusory script. 

Any unauthorized creature attempting 
to read the script triggers a potent illusory 
effect and must make a saving throw. A 
successful saving throw means the crea- 
(ture can look away with only a mild sense 
of disorientation. Failure means the crea- 
‘ture is subject to a suggestion implanted 
in the script by you at the time the illu- 
sory script spell was cast. The suggestion 
lasts only 30 minutes. Typical suggestions 
include “Close the book and leave,” 
“Forget the existence of the book,” and so 
forth. If successfully dispelled by dispel 
magic, the illusory script and its secret mes- 
sage disappear. The hidden message can 
_be read by a combination of the true seeing 
‘spell with the read magic or comprehend 
languages spell. 

The casting time depends on how long 


ja message you wish to write, but it is 


‘always at least 1 minute. 
| Material Component: A lead-based ink 
(cost of not less than 50 gp). 


Mlusory Wall 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Effect: Image 1 ft. by 10 ft. by 10 ft. 

Duration: Permanent i 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with) 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell creates the illusion of a wall, 


floor, ceiling, or similar surface. It appears. 


absolutely real when viewed, but physical 
objects can pass through it without diffi- 
culty. When the spell is used to hide pits, 
traps, or normal doors, any detection abil- 
ities that do not require sight work nor- 
mally. Touch or a probing search reveals 
the true nature of the surface, though 
such measures do not cause the illusion to 
disappear. 


Imbue with Spell Ability 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 4, Magic 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched; see text 

Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


You transfer some of your currently pre- 
pared spells, and the ability to cast them, 


to another creature. Only a creature 

with an Intelligence score of at least 5 

and a Wisdom score of at least 9 can 

receive this bestowal. Only cleric spells 

from the schools of abjuration, divina- 

tion, and conjuration (healing) can be 

transferred. The number and level of 
spells that the subject can be granted de- | 
pends on its Hit Dice; even multiple) 
castings of imbue with spell ability can’t | 
exceed this limit. 


HD of Spells 

Recipient Imbued 

2 or lower One Ist-level spell 

3-4 One or two Ist-level spells 
5 or higher One or two Ist-level spells 


and one 2nd-level spell 


The transferred spell’s variable character- 
istics (range, duration, area, and the like) 
function according to your level, not the 
level of the recipient. 

Once you cast imbue with spell ability, 
you cannot prepare a new 4th-level spell 
to replace it until the recipient uses the 
imbued spells or is slain, or until you dis- 
miss the imbue with spell ability spell. In 
the meantime, you remain responsible to 
your deity or your principles for the use 
to which the spell is put. If the number of 
4th-level spells you can cast decreases, 
and that number drops below your cur- 
rent number of active imbue with spell abil- 
ity spells, the more recently cast imbued 
spells are dispelled. 

To cast a spell with a verbal component, 
the subject must be able to speak. To cast a 
spell with a somatic component, it must 
have humanlike hands. To cast a spell 
with a material component or focus, it 
must have the materials or focus. 


Implosion 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 9, Destruction 9 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

‘Targets: One corporeal creature/round 

Duration: Concentration (up to 4 
rounds) 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You create a destructive resonance ina 
corporeal creature's body. For each round 
you concentrate, you cause one creature 
to collapse in on itself, killing it. (This 
effect, being instantaneous, cannot be 
dispelled.) 

You can target a particular creature 
only once with each casting of the spell. 

Implosion has no effect on creatures in 
gaseous form or on incorporeal creatures. 


Imprisonment 

Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


When you cast imprisonment and touch a 

| creature, it is entombed in a state of sus- 
pended animation (see the temporal stasis 
spell) in a small sphere far beneath the 
surface of the earth. The subject remains 
there unless a freedom spell is cast at the 
locale where the imprisonment took 
place. Magical search by a crystal ball, a 
locate object spell, or some other similar 
divination does not reveal the fact that a 
creature is imprisoned, but discern location 
does. A wish or miracle spell will not free, 
the recipient, but will reveal where it is 
entombed. If you know the targets name 
and some facts about its life, the target 
takes a —4 penalty on its save. 


Incendiary Cloud 

Conjuration (Creation) [Fire] _ 

Level: Fire 8, Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft/level) 

Effect: Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 | 
ft. high | 

Duration: 1 round/level a | 

Saving Throw: Reflex half; see text 

Spell Resistance: No 


| An incendiary cloud spell creates a cloud of 

| roiling smoke shot through with white- 

hot embers. The smoke obscures all sight 

Las a fog cloud does. In addition, the white- 

[hot embers within the cloud deal 4d6 
| points of fire damage to everything with- 
in the cloud on your turn each round. All 
targets can make Reflex saves each round 
to take half damage. 

As with a cloudkill spell, the smoke 
moves away from you at 10 feet per round. 
Figure out the smoke’s new spread each 
round based on its new point of origin, 

which is 10 feet farther away from where 

| you were when you cast the spell. By con- 

| centrating, you can make the cloud (actu- 

Lally its point of origin) move as much as 
60 feet each round. Any portion of the 
cloud that would extend beyond your 
maximum range dissipates harmlessly, 
reducing the remainder’s spread there- 
after. 

As with fog cloud, wind disperses the 
smoke, and the spell can't be cast under- 
water. 


Inflict Critical Wounds 


Necromancy 
Level: Clr 4, Destruction 4 


This spell functions like inflict light 
wounds, except that you deal 4d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +20). 


Inflict Critical Wounds, Mass 


_Necromancy 
Level: Clr 8 


This spell functions like mass inflict light 
wounds, except that it deals 4d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +40). 


Inflict Light Wounds 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 1, Destruction 1 
Components: V, S 

\Casting Time: 1 standard action 
\Range: Touch 

|Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will half 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


When laying your hand upon a creature, 


you channel negative energy that deals. 
1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster. 


level (maximum +5). 


Since undead are powered by negative 
energy, this spell cures such a creature of a. 


like amount of damage, rather than harm- 
ing it. 


Inflict Light Wounds, Mass 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 5, Destruction 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will half 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Negative energy spreads out in all direc- 
tions from the point of origin, dealing 1d8 
points of damage +1 point per caster level 
(maximum +25) to nearby living enemies. 

Like other inflict spells, mass inflict light 
wounds cures undead in its area rather 
than damaging them. A cleric capable of 
spontaneously casting inflict spells can 
also spontaneously cast mass inflict spells. 


Inflict Minor Wounds 


Necromancy 
Level: Clr 0 
Saving Throw: Will negates 


This spell functions like inflict light 
wounds, except that you deal 1 point of 


damage and a Will save negates the 
damage instead of halving it. 


Inflict Moderate Wounds 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 2 


This spell functions like inflict light 
wounds, except that you deal 2d8 points of | 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi-| 
mum +10). 


Inflict Moderate Wounds, Mass 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 6 


This spell functions like mass inflict light 
wounds, except that it deals 2d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +30). 


Inflict Serious Wounds 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 3 


This spell functions like inflict light 
wounds, except that you deal 3d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +15). 


Inflict Serious Wounds, Mass 
‘Necromancy 
Level: Clr 7 


This spell functions like mass inflict light 
wounds, except that it deals 3d8 points of 
damage +1 point per caster level (maxi- 
mum +35). 


Insanity 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
|__ Affecting] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The affected creature suffers from a con- 
tinuous confusion effect, as the spell. 

Remove curse does not remove insanity. 
Greater restoration, heal, limited wish, mira- 
cle, or wish can restore the creature. 


Insect Plaque 

Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Clr 5, Drd 5 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Effect: One swarm of locusts/three 
levels, each of which must be adjacent 
to at least one other swarm 

Duration: 1 min./level 


Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You summon a number of swarms of 
locusts (one per three levels, to a maxi- 
mum of six swarms at 18th level). The 
swarms must be summoned so that each 
one is adjacent to at least one other swarm 
(that is, the swarms must fill one contigu- 
_ous area). You may summon the locust, 
swarms so that they share the area of 
[other creatures. Each swarm attacks any 
| creatures occupying its area. The swarms 
are stationary after being summoned, and 
won't pursue creatures that flee. 
See the Monster Manual for details on 
locust swarms. 


Invisibility 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2, Trickery 2 
Components: V,S,M/DF __— 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal or touch < | 
Target: You or a creature or object weigh- 
ing no more than 100 lb./level 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) | 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) | 
or Will negates (harmless, object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes 
(harmless, object) 


The creature or object touched becomes 
invisible, vanishing from sight, even from 
darkvision. If the recipient is a creature 
carrying gear, that vanishes, too. If you 
cast the spell on someone else, neither 
you nor your allies can see the subject, 
unless you can normally see invisible 
things or you employ magic to do so. 
___ Items dropped or put down by an in- 
| visible creature become visible; items 
| picked up disappear if tucked into the 
| clothing or pouches worn by the creature. 
| Light, however, never becomes invisible, 
although a source of light can become so 
(thus, the effect is that of a light with no 
visible source). Any part of an item that 
the subject carries but that extends more 
than 10 feet from it becomes visible, such 
as a trailing rope. 
Of course, the subject is not magically 
silenced, and certain other conditions can 
render the recipient detectable (such as 
| stepping in a puddle). The spell ends if 
| the subject attacks any creature. For pur- 
| poses of this spell, an attack includes any 
spell targeting a foe or whose area or ef- 
fect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe 
depends on the invisible character’s per- 
ceptions.) Actions directed at unattended 
objects do not break the spell. Causing 
harm indirectly is not an attack. Thus, an 
invisible being can open doors, talk, eat, 
climb stairs, summon monsters and have 
them attack, cut the ropes holding a rope 
bridge while enemies are on the bridge, 


remotely trigger traps, open a portcullis 
to release attack dogs, and so forth. If the 
subject attacks directly, however, it im- 
mediately becomes visible along with all 
its gear. Spells such as bless that specifi- 
cally affect allies but not foes are not 
attacks for this purpose, even when they 
include foes in their area. 

See Table 8-5: Attack Roll Modifiers 
‘and Table 8-6: Armor Class Modifiers, 
page 151, for the effects of invisibility on 
combat. 

Invisibility can be made permanent (on 
objects only) with a permanency spell. 

Arcane Material Component: An eyelash 
encased in a bit of gum arabic. 


Invisibility, Greater 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 

‘Target: You or creature touched 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

[Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 


‘This spell functions like invisibility, ex- 
cept that it doesn't end if the subject 
attacks. 


Invisibility, Mass 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, M 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Targets: Any number of creatures, no 
two of which can be more than 180 ft. 
apart 


This spell functions like invisibility, except 
that the effect is mobile with the group and 
is broken when anyone in the group attacks. 
Individuals in the group cannot see each 


other. The spell is broken for any individual, 


who moves more than 180 feet from the 
nearest member of the group. (If only two 
individuals are affected, the one moving 
away from the other one loses its invisibil- 
ity. If both are moving away from each 
other, they both become visible when the 
distance between them exceeds 180 feet.) 

Material Component: An eyelash en- 
cased in a bit of gum arabic. 


Invisibility Purge 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


You surround yourself with a sphere of 
power with a radius of 5 feet per caster 
level that negates all forms of invisibility. 
Anything invisible becomes visible while 
in the area. 


Invisibility Sphere 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation around the 
creature or object touched 


This spell functions like invisibility, except | 
that this spell confers invisibility upon all | 
creatures within 10 feet of the recipient. | 


The center of the effect is mobile with the 
recipient. 

Those affected by this spell can see 
each other and themselves as if unaffect- 
ed by the spell. Any affected creature 
moving out of the area becomes visible, 
but creatures moving into the area after 
the spell is cast do not become invisible. 
Affected creatures (other than the recipi- 
ent) who attack negate the invisibility 
only for themselves. If the spell recipient 
attacks, the invisibility sphere ends. 


Tron Body 


Transmutation 

Level: Earth 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


This spell transforms your body into liv- 
ing iron, which grants you several power- 
ful resistances and abilities. 

You gain damage reduction 15/adaman- 
tine. You are immune to blindness, critical 
hits, ability score damage, deafness, dis- 
ease, drowning, electricity, poison, stun- 
ning, and all spells or attacks that affect 
your physiology or respiration, because 
you have no physiology or respiration 
while this spell is in effect. You take only 
half damage from acid and fire of all kinds. 
However, you also become vulnerable to 
all special attacks that affect iron golems. 

You gain a +6 enhancement bonus to 
your Strength score, but you take a —6 


penalty to Dexterity as well (to a mini- 
mum Dexterity score of 1), and your. 
speed is reduced to half normal. You have | 


an arcane spell failure chance of 50% and a 
-8 armor check penalty, just as if you were 
clad in full plate armor. You cannot drink 
(and thus can't use potions) or play wind 
instruments. 

Your unarmed attacks deal damage 
equal to a club sized for you (1d4 for Small 
characters or 1d6 for Medium characters), 
and you are considered armed when 
making unarmed attacks. 

Your weight increases by a factor of ten, 
causing you to sink in water like a stone. 
However, you could survive the crushing 
pressure and lack of air at the bottom of 
the ocean—at least until the spell dura- 
tion expires. 


245 


. 


Arcane Material Component: A small 
piece of iron that was once part of either 
an iron golem, a hero's armor, or a war 
machine. 


Ironwood 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 6 

Components: V, S, M 
| Casting Time: 1 minute/lb. created 
Range: 0 ft. | 
Effect: An ironwood object weighing up | 
| _ to 5 lb./level 

Duration: One day/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Ironwood is a magical substance created by 
druids from normal wood. While re- 
maining natural wood in almost every 
way, ironwood is as strong, heavy, and re- 
sistant to fire as steel. Spells that affect 
metal or iron (such as heat metal) do not 
function on ironwood. Spells that affect 
wood (such as wood shape) do affect iron- 
wood, although ironwood does not burn. 
Using this spell with wood shape or a 
wood-related Craft check, you can fashion 
wooden items that function as steel items. 
Thus, wooden plate armor and wooden 
swords can be created that are as durable 
as their normal steel counterparts. These 
items are freely usable by druids. 

Further, if you make only half as much 


ironwood as the spell would normally 


allow, any weapon, shield, or suit of armor 
so created is treated as a magic item with a 
+1 enhancement bonus. 

Material Component: Wood shaped into 
the form of the intended ironwood object. 


Jump 
| Transmutation 
| Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
| Components: V, S, M 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The subject gets a +10 enhancement 
bonus on Jump checks. The enhance- 
| ment bonus increases to +20 at caster 
evel sth, and to +30 (the maximum) at 
| caster level 9th. 

Material Component: A grasshopper’s 
hind leg, which you break when the spell 


is cast. 


Keen Edge 

Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Target or Targets: One weapon or fifty 
projectiles, all of which must be in 
contact with each other at the time of 
casting 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


‘This spell makes a weapon magically 
keen, improving its ability to deal telling 
blows. This transmutation doubles the 
‘threat range of the weapon. A threat range 
of 20 becomes 19-20, a threat range of 
19-20 becomes 17-20, and a threat range 
of 18-20 becomes 15-20. The spell can be 
cast only on piercing or slashing weapons. 
If cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the 
keen edge on a particular projectile ends 
after one use, whether or not the missile 
strikes its intended target. (Treat shuriken 
las arrows, rather than as thrown weapons, 
for the purpose of this spell.) 
| Multiple effects that increase a weap- 
jon’s threat range (such as the keen edge 
[spell and the Improved Critical feat) don't 
stack. You can't cast this spell on a natural 
‘weapon, such as a claw. 


Knock 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

‘Target: One door, box, or chest with an 
area of up to 10 sq. ft./level 

Duration: Instantaneous; see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


The knock spell opens stuck, barred, 


locked, held, or arcane locked doors. It, 


opens secret doors, as well as locked or 
trick-opening boxes or chests. It also 
loosens welds, shackles, or chains (pro- 
vided they serve to hold closures shut). If 
used to open a arcane locked door, the spell 
does not remove the arcane lock but simply 
suspends its functioning for 10 minutes. 
In all other cases, the door does not relock 
itself or become stuck again on its own. 
Knock does not raise barred gates or simi- 
lar impediments (such as a portcullis), nor 
does it affect ropes, vines, and the like. 
The effect is limited by the area. A 3rd- 
level caster can cast a knock spell on a door 
of 30 square feet or less (for example, a 
standard 4-foot-by-7-foot door). Each spell 
can undo as many as two means of pre- 
venting egress. Thus if a door is locked, 
barred, and held, or quadruple locked, 
opening it requires two knock spells. 


Know Direction 


Divination 
Level: Brd 0, Drd 0 


Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You instantly know the direction of north 

from your current position. The spell is | 
effective in any environment in which) 
“north” exists, but it may not work in) 
extraplanar settings. Your knowledge of 

north is correct at the moment of casting, 

but you can get lost again within mo- 

ments if you don’t find some external ref- 

erence point to help you keep track of 

direction. 


Legend Lore 


Divination 

Level: Brd 4, Knowledge 7, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M, F 

Casting Time: See text 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: See text 


Legend love brings to your mind legends 
about an important person, place, or thing. 
If the person or thing is at hand, or if you 
are in the place in question, the casting 
time is only 1d4x10 minutes. If you have 
only detailed information on the person, 
place, or thing, the casting time is 1d10 
days, and the resulting lore is less complete 
and specific (though it often provides 
enough information to help you find the 
person, place, or thing, thus allowing a 
better legend lore result next time). If you 
know only rumors, the casting time is 2d6 
weeks, and the resulting lore is vague and 
incomplete (though it often directs you to 
more detailed information, thus allowing a 
better legend lore result next time). 

During the casting, you cannot engage 
in other than routine activities: eating, 
sleeping, and so forth. When completed, 
the divination brings legends (if any) 
about the person, place, or things to your 
mind. These may be legends that are still | 
current, legends that have been forgotten, 
or even information that has never been | 
generally known. If the person, place, or 
thing is not of legendary importance, you 
gain no information. As a rule of thumb, 
characters who are 11th level and higher 
are “legendary,” as are the sorts of crea- 
tures they contend with, the major magic 
items they wield, and the places where 
they perform their key deeds. 

Examples of legend lore results include 
the following. 

A divination about a mysterious magic 
axe you have at hand: “Woe to the evildoer 
whose hand touches the axe, for even the 
haft chops the hand of the evil ones. Only 
a true Son or Daughter of Stone, one who 
loves Moradin and whom Moradin loves, 


may awaken the true powers of the axe, 
and only with the sacred word ‘Rudnogg’ 
on the lips.” 

A divination about a legendary paladin 
about whom you know many details: 
“Vanashon has been denied the glory of 
death and the duty of life. He waits pa- 
tiently beneath the Forbidden Mountain.” 
(The paladin has been turned to stone in 

_the caverns under the mountain.) | 
___A divination about ancient ruins about 
| which you have only a passing reference 

lin a partially damaged tome: “The sor- 
cerer who called herself Ryth built a li- 
brary without words and a temple with- 
out gods. Those who read and those who 
pray tore it down in a night and a day.” 
(These clues may be enough for you to 
find out more and get the details you need 
to cast a better legend lore.) 

Material Component: Incense worth at 
least 250 gp. 


Focus: Four strips of ivory (worth 50 gp. i 


each) formed into a rectangle. 


Leomund’s Secret Chest 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes __ 
Range: See text 
Target: One chest and up to 1 cu. ft. of 

goods/caster level 
Duration: Sixty days or until discharged 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You hide a chest on the Ethereal Plane for 
as long as sixty days and can retrieve it at 
will. The chest can contain up to 1 cubic 
foot of material per caster level (regard- 
| less of the chest’s actual size, which is 
about 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet). If any 
| living creatures are in the chest, there is a 
|75% chance that the spell simply fails. 
Once the chest is hidden, you can retrieve 
it by concentrating (a standard action), 
and it appears next to you. 

The chest must be exceptionally well 
crafted and expensive, constructed for 
you by master crafters. If made princi- 
pally of wood, it must be ebony, rose- 
wood, sandalwood, teak, or the like, and 

all of its corner fittings, nails, and hard- 
| ware must be platinum. If constructed of 
l ivory, the metal fittings of the chest must 
(be gold. If the chest is fashioned from 
bronze, copper, or silver, its fittings must 
be silver or electrum (a valuable metal). 
The cost of such a chest is never less than 
5,000 gp. Once it is constructed, you must 
make a tiny replica (of the same materials 
and perfect in every detail), so that the 
miniature of the chest appears to be a per- 
fect copy. (The replica costs 50 gp.) You 
can have but one pair of these chests at 
any given time—even a wish spell does 


not allow more. The chests are nonmagi- 
cal and can be fitted with locks, wards, 
and so on, just as any normal chest can be. 

To hide the chest, you cast the spell 
while touching both the chest and the 
replica. The chest vanishes into the Ethe- 
real Plane. You need the replica to recall 
the chest. After sixty days, there is a 
cumulative chance of 5% per day that the 
‘chest is irretrievably lost. If the miniature 
of the chest is lost or destroyed, there is 
‘no way, not even with a wish spell, that the 
large chest can be summoned back, al- 
though an extraplanar expedition might 
be mounted to find it. 

Living things in the chest eat, sleep, 
and age normally, and they die if they run 
out of food, air, water, or whatever they 
need to survive. 

Focus: The chest and its replica. 


Leomund’s Secure Shelter 


\Conjuration (Creation) 
‘Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M, F; see text 
(Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: 20-ft.-square structure 
Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You conjure a sturdy cottage or lodge made. 


of material that is common in the area 


where the spell is cast—stone, timber, or. 


(at worst) sod. The floor is level, clean, and 
dry. In all respects the lodging resembles a 
normal cottage, with a sturdy door, two 
shuttered windows, and a small fireplace. 

The shelter has no heating or cooling 
source (other than natural insulation 
qualities). Therefore, it must be heated as 


a normal dwelling, and extreme heat ad- 


versely affects it and its occupants. The 
dwelling does, however, provide consid- 
erable security otherwise—it is as strong 
as a normal stone building, regardless of 
its material composition. The dwelling 
resists flames and fire as if it were stone. It 
is impervious to normal missiles (but not 
the sort cast by siege engines or giants). 

The door, shutters, and even chimney 
are secure against intrusion, the former 
two being arcane locked and the latter se- 
cured by an iron grate at the top and a 
narrow flue. In addition, these three areas 
are protected by an alarm spell. Finally, an 
unseen servant is conjured to provide ser- 
vice to you for the duration of the shelter. 

The secure shelter contains rude furnish- 
ings—eight bunks, a trestle table, eight 
stools, and a writing desk. 

Material Component: A square chip of 
stone, crushed lime, a few grains of sand, 
a sprinkling of water, and several splinters 
of wood. These must be augmented by the 
components of the unseen servant spell 


(string and a bit of wood) if this benefit is 
to be included. 

Focus: The focus of the alarm spell 
(silver wire and a tiny bell) if this benefit 
is to be included. 


Leomund’s Tiny Hut 


Evocation [Force] 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 20 ft. 

Effect: 20-ft.-radius sphere centered on 
yout location 

Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You create an unmoving, opaque sphere 
of force of any color you desire around 
yourself. Half the sphere projects above 
the ground, and the lower hemisphere 
passes through the ground. As many as 
nine other Medium creatures can fit into 
the field with you; they can freely pass 
into and out of the hut without harming 
it. However, if you remove yourself from 
the hut, the spell ends. 

The temperature inside the hut is 70° F 
if the exterior temperature is between 0° 
and 100° F. An exterior temperature 
below 0° or above 100° lowers or raises the 
interior temperature on a 1-degree-for-1 
basis (thus, if it’s -20° outside, inside the 
hut it’s 50°). The hut also provides protec- 
tion against the elements, such as rain, 
dust, and sandstorms. The hut withstands 
any wind of less than hurricane force, but 
a hurricane (75+ mph wind speed) or 
greater force destroys it. 

__ The interior of the hut is a hemisphere. 
You can illuminate it dimly upon com- 
mand or extinguish the light as desired. 
Although the force field is opaque from 
the outside, it is transparent from within. 
Missiles, weapons, and most spell effects 
can pass through the hut without affect- 
ing it, although the occupants cannot be 


seen from outside the hut (they have total | 


concealment). 


Material Component: A small crystal | 


bead that shatters when the spell duration 
expires or the hut is dispelled. 


Leomund’s Trap 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Object touched 
Duration: Permanent (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell makes a lock or other small 
mechanism seem to be trapped to anyone 


Z 


248 


who can detect traps. You place the spell 
upon any small mechanism or device, 
such as a lock, hinge, hasp, cork, cap, or 
ratchet. Any character able to detect traps, 
or who uses any spell or device enabling 
trap detection, is 100% certain a real trap 
exists. Of course, the effect is illusory and 
nothing happens if the trap is “sprung”; its 
primary purpose is to frighten away, 
thieves or make them waste precious time.. 
___If another Leomund’s trap is active 
[within 50 feet when the spell is cast, the 
| casting fails. | 
Material Component: A piece of iron 
pyrite touched to the object to be trapped 
while the object is sprinkled with a spe- 
cial dust requiring 50 gp to prepare. 


Lesser (Spell Name) 


Any spell whose name begins with lesser 
is alphabetized in this chapter according 
to the second word of the spell name. 
Thus, the description of a lesser spell 
appears near the description of the spell 
on which it is based. Spell chains that 
have lesser spells in them include those, 
based on the spells confusion, geas, globe of 
invulnerability, planar ally, planar binding, 
and restoration. 


Levitate 


Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 5 
Range: Personal or close (25 ft. + 5 ft./ | 
2 levels) | 
Target: You or one willing creature or 
one object (total weight up to 100 lb./ 
level) 
| Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
| Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


| Levitate allows you to move yourself, an- 
‘other creature, or an object up and down 
as you wish. A creature must be willing to 
be levitated, and an object must be unat- 
tended or possessed by a willing creature. 
You can mentally direct the recipient to 
move up or down as much as 20 feet each 
round; doing so is a move action. You 
cannot move the recipient horizontally, 
| face of a cliff, for example, or push against 
la ceiling to move laterally (generally at 
| half its base land speed). 

A levitating creature that attacks with a 
melee or ranged weapon finds itself in- 
creasingly unstable; the first attack has a 
—1 penalty on attack rolls, the second —2, 
and so on, to a maximum penalty of —5. A 
full round spent stabilizing allows the 
creature to begin again at —1. 

Focus: Either a small leather loop or a 
piece of golden wire bent into a cup shape 
with a long shank on one end. 


Light 


Evocation [Light] 

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Object touched 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: No 


‘This spell causes an object to glow like a 
torch, shedding bright light in a 20-foot- 
radius (and dim light for an additional 20 
feet) from the point you touch. The effect 
is immobile, but it can be cast on a mov- 
able object. Light taken into an area of 
magical darkness does not function. 

A light spell (one with the light de- 
scriptor) counters and dispels a darkness 
spell (one with the darkness descriptor) 
lof an equal or lower level. 
|__ Arcane Material Component: A firefly or a 
[piece of phosphorescent moss. 


Lightning Bolt 


‘Evocation [Electricity] 

‘Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 120 ft. 

Area: 120-ft. line 

Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Reflex half 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


You release a powerful stroke of electrical 
energy that deals 1d6 points of electricity 
damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) 
to each creature within its area. The bolt 
begins at your fingertips. 

The lightning bolt sets fire to combustibles 


and damages objects in its path. It can melt, 


metals with a low melting point, such as 
lead, gold, copper, silver, or bronze. If the 
damage caused to an interposing barrier 
shatters or breaks through it, the bolt may 
continue beyond the barrier if the spell’s 
range permits; otherwise, it stops at the bar- 
rier just as any other spell effect does. 

Material Component: A bit of fur and an 
amber, crystal, or glass rod. 


Limited Wish 


Universal 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, XP 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 

Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A limited wish lets you create nearly any 
type of effect. For example, a limited wish 
can do any of the following things. 


° Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 
6th level or lower, provided the spell is 
not of a school prohibited to you. 

° Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or 
lower, provided the spell is not of a 
school prohibited to you. 

° Duplicate any sorcerer/wizard spell of 
5th level or lower, even if it’s of a pro- | 
hibited school. | 

° Duplicate any other spell of 4th level or | 
lower, even if it’s of a prohibited school. 

° Undo the harmful effects of many 
spells, such as geas/quest or insanity. 

è Produce any other effect whose power 
level is in line with the above effects, 
such as a single creature automatically 
hitting on its next attack or taking a -7 
penalty on its next saving throw. 


A duplicated spell allows saving throws 
and spell resistance as normal (but the 
save DC is for a 7th-level spell). When a 
limited wish duplicates a spell that has an 
XP cost, you must pay that cost or 300 XP, 
whichever is more. When a limited wish 
spell duplicates a spell with a material 
component that costs more than 1,000 gp, 
you must provide that component. 

XP Cost: 300 XP or more (see above). 


Liveoak 


‘Transmutation 

Level: Drd 6 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 

Target: Tree touched 
Duration: One day/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell turns an oak tree into a protec- 
tor or guardian. The spell can be cast on 
only a single tree at a time; while liveoak is 
in effect, you can't cast it again on another 
tree. The tree on which the spell is cast 
must be within 10 feet of your dwelling 
place, within a place sacred to you, or 
within 300 feet of something that you | 
wish to guard or protect. | 

Liveoak must be cast on a healthy, Huge | 
oak. A triggering phrase of up to one word 
per caster level is placed on the targeted 
oak. For instance, “Attack any persons 
who come near without first saying 
‘sacred mistletoe’ ” is an eleven-word trig- 
ger phrase that you could use at 11th level 
or higher. The liveoak spell triggers the 
tree into animating as a treant (see the 
Monster Manual). At the DM’s option, you 
can extrapolate statistics for a smaller tree 
from the treant statistics if you cast liveoak 
ona smaller oak. 

If liveoak is dispelled, the tree takes root 
immediately, wherever it happens to be. If 
released by you, the tree tries to return to 
its original location before taking root. 


Locate Creature 
Divination 
Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 10 min./level 


This spell functions like locate object, ex- 
cept this spell locates a known or familiar 
creature. | 
__ You slowly turn and sense when you 
_are facing in the direction of the creature 
| to be located, provided it is within range. 
{You also know in which direction the 
creature is moving, if any. 

The spell can locate a creature of a spe- 
cific kind (such as a human or a unicorn) 
or a specific creature known to you. It 
cannot find a creature of a certain type 
(such as humanoid or animal). To find a 
kind of creature, you must have seen such 
a creature up close (within 30 feet) at least 
once. 


Running water blocks the spell. It, 


mislead, nondetection, and polymorph spells. 
Material Component: A bit of fur from a 


bloodhound. 


Locate Object 

Divination _ res 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2, Travel 2 

Components: V, S, F/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: Circle, centered on you, witha | 
radius of 400 ft. + 40 ft./level 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


_You sense the direction of a well-known or 
| clearly visualized object. The spell locates 
| such objects as apparel, jewelry, furniture, 
| tools, weapons, or even a ladder. You can 
search for general items such as a stairway, 
a sword, or a jewel, in which case you 
locate the nearest one of its kind if more 
than one is within range. Attempting to 
find a certain item, such as a particular 
piece of jewelry, requires a specific and 
accurate mental image; if the image is not 
close enough to the actual object, the spell 
fails. You cannot specify a unique item 
(such as “Baron Vulden’s signet ring”) 
| unless you have observed that particular 
litem firsthand (not through divination). 
| The spell is blocked by even a thin 

sheet of lead. Creatures cannot be found 
by this spell. Polymorph any object fools it. 

Arcane Focus: A forked twig. 


t 


Longstrider 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1, Travel 1 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 


Target: You 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 


This spell increases your base land speed 
by 10 feet. (This adjustment counts as an 
enhancement bonus.) It has no effect on 
other modes of movement, such as 
burrow, climb, fly, or swim. 

Material Component: A pinch of dirt. 


Lullaby 


‘Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 


Affecting] 

Level: Brd 0 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Area: Living creatures within a 10-ft.- 
radius burst 

Duration: Concentration + 1 
round/level (D) 


\Saving Throw: Will negates 
(Spell Resistance: Yes 


(Any creature within the area that fails a 
[Will save becomes drowsy and inatten- 
tive, taking a —5 penalty on Listen and 
‘Spot checks and a —2 penalty on Will 


saves against sleep effects while the lullaby 
is in effect. Lullaby lasts for as long as the 


caster concentrates, plus up to 1 round. 


per caster level thereafter. 


Mage Armor 


‘Conjuration (Creation) [Force] 


Level: Sor/Wiz 1 


Components: V, S, F 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No 


An invisible but tangible field of force 
surrounds the subject of a mage armor 
spell, providing a +4 armor bonus to AC. 
Unlike mundane armor, mage armor en- 
tails no armor check penalty, arcane spell 
failure chance, or speed reduction. Since 
mage armor is made of force, incorporeal 
creatures cant bypass it the way they do 
normal armor. 
Focus: A piece of cured leather. 


Mage Hand 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One nonmagical, unattended 
object weighing up to 5 |b. 

Duration: Concentration 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You point your finger at an object and can 
lift it and move it at will from a distance. 
As a move action, you can propel the ob- 
ject as far as 15 feet in any direction, 
though the spell ends if the distance 
between you and the object ever exceeds 
the spell’s range. 


Magic Circle against Chaos 


Abjuration [Lawful] 
Level: Clr 3, Law 3, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3 


This spell functions like magic circle 
against evil, except that it is similar to pro- 
tection from chaos instead of protection from 
evil, and it can imprison a nonlawful 
called creature. 


Magic Circle against Evil 


Abjuration [Good] 

Level: Clr 3, Good 3, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Area: 10-ft.-radius emanation from 
touched creature 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: No; see text 


All creatures within the area gain the 

effects of a protection from evil spell, and no 

nongood summoned creatures can enter 

the area either. You must overcome a crea- 

ture’s spell resistance in order to keep it at 

bay (as in the third function of protection 

from evil), but the deflection and resist- 

ance bonuses and the protection from 

mental control apply regardless of ene- 

mies’ spell resistance. 

| This spell has an alternative version 

that you may choose when casting it. A 

‘magic circle against evil can be focused in- 

ward rather than outward. When focused 

inward, the spell binds a nongood called 

creature (such as those called by the lesser 

planar binding, planar binding, and greater 

planar binding spells) for a maximum of 24 

hours per caster level, provided that you. 
cast the spell that calls the creature within | 
1 round of casting the magic circle. The | 
creature cannot cross the circle’s boun- 

daries. If a creature too large to fit into the 

spell’s area is the subject of the spell, the 

spell acts as a normal protection from evil 

spell for that creature only. 

A magic circle leaves much to be desired 
as a trap. If the circle of powdered silver laid 
down in the process of spellcasting is 
broken, the effect immediately ends. The 
trapped creature can do nothing that dis- 
turbs the circle, directly or indirectly, but 
other creatures can. If the called creature 
has spell resistance, it can test the trap once 
a day. If you fail to overcome its spell resist- 
ance, the creature breaks free, destroying 
the circle. A creature capable of any form of 


250 


dimensional travel (astral projection, blink, 
dimension door, etherealness, gate, plane shift, 
shadow walk, teleport, and similar abilities) 
can simply leave the circle through that 
means. You can prevent the creature's 
extradimensional escape by casting a 
dimensional anchor spell on it, but you must 
cast the spell before the creature acts. If you 
are successful, the anchor effect lasts as long 
| as the magic circle does. The creature cannot, 
‘reach across the magic circle, but its ranged. 
attacks (ranged weapons, spells, magical 
| abilities, and the like) can. The creature can 
attack any target it can reach with its 
ranged attacks except for the circle itself. 

You can add a special diagram (a two- 
dimensional bounded figure with no gaps 
along its circumference, augmented with 
various magical sigils) to make the magic 
circle more secure. Drawing the diagram 
by hand takes 10 minutes and requires a 
DC 20 Spellcraft check. The DM makes 
this check secretly. If the check fails, the 
diagram is ineffective. You can take 10 
(see page 65) when drawing the diagram 
if you are under no particular time pres- 
sure to complete the task. This task also 
takes 10 full minutes. If time is no factor 
at all, and you devote 3 hours and 20 min- 
utes to the task, you can take 20. 

A successful diagram allows you to cast 
a dimensional anchor spell on the magic 
circle during the round before casting any 
summoning spell. The anchor holds any 
called creatures in the magic circle for 24 
hours per caster level. A creature cannot 
use its spell resistance against a magic circle 
prepared with a diagram, and none of its 
abilities or attacks can cross the diagram. 
If the creature tries a Charisma check to 

break free of the trap (see the lesser planar 

| binding spell), the DC increases by 5. The 

| creature is immediately released if any- 

| thing disturbs the diagram—even a straw 

| laid across it. However, the creature itself 
| cannot disturb the diagram either directly 
or indirectly, as noted above. 

This spell is not cumulative with protec- 
tion from evil and vice versa. 

Arcane Material Component: A little pow- 
dered silver with which you trace a 3-foot- 
diameter circle on the floor (or ground) 
around the creature to be warded. 


Magic Circle against Good 


| Abjuration [Evil] 
| Level: Clr 3, Evil 3, Sor/Wiz 3 


This spell functions like magic circle, 
against evil, except that it is similar to pro- 
tection from good instead of protection from 
evil, and it can imprison a nonevil called 
creature. 


Magic Circle against Law 


Level: Chaos 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3 


This spell functions like magic circle 
against evil, except that it is similar to pro- 
tection from law instead of protection from 
evil, and it can imprison a nonchaotic 
called creature. 


Magic Fang 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

‘Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Touch 

‘Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Magic fang gives one natural weapon of 
the subject a +1 enhancement bonus on 
attack and damage rolls. The spell can af- 
fect a slam attack, fist, bite, or other natu- 
iral weapon. (The spell does not change an 
junarmed strike’s damage from nonlethal 
\damage to lethal damage.) 

Magic fang can be made permanent 
|with a permanency spell. 


Magic Fang, Greater 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 3, Rgr 3 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One living creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level 


‘This spell functions like magic fang, ex- 


‘cept that the enhancement bonus on at- 
tack and damage rolls is +1 per four caster 
levels (maximum +5). 

Alternatively, you may imbue all of the 
creature's natural weapons with a +1 en- 
hancement bonus (regardless of your cast- 
et level). 


Greater magic fang can be made perma-, 


nent with a permanency spell. 


Magic Jar 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target: One creature 

Duration: 1 hour/level or until you 
return to your body 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


By casting magic jar, you place your soul in 
a gem or large crystal (known as the magic 
jar), leaving your body lifeless. Then you 
can attempt to take control of a nearby 
body, forcing its soul into the magic jar. You 
may move back to the jar (thereby return- 
ing the trapped soul to its body) and 
attempt to possess another body. The spell 
ends when you send your soul back to your 
own body, leaving the receptacle empty. 


To cast the spell, the magic jar must be 
within spell range and you must know 
where it is, though you do not need line 
of sight or line of effect to it. When you 
transfer your soul upon casting, your 
body is, as near as anyone can tell, dead. 

While in the magic jar, you can sense 
and attack any life force within 10 feet per | 
caster level (and on the same plane of! 
existence). You do need line of effect from | 
the jar to the creatures. You cannot deter- 
mine the exact creature types or positions 
of these creatures. In a group of life forces, 
you can sense a difference of 4 or more 
Hit Dice between one creature and 
another and can determine whether a life 
force is powered by positive or negative 
energy. (Undead creatures are powered by 
negative energy. Only sentient undead 
creatures have, or are, souls.) 

For example, if two 10th-level charac- 
ters are attacking a hill giant (12 HD) and 
four ogres (4 HD), you could determine 
that there are three stronger and four 
weaker life forces within range, all pow- 
ered by positive energy. You could choose 
to take over either a stronger or a weaker 
creature, but which particular stronger or 
weaker creature you attempt to possess is 
determined randomly. 

Attempting to possess a body is a full- 
round action. It is blocked by protection 
from evil or a similar ward. You possess the 
body and force the creature's soul into the 
magic jar unless the subject succeeds on a 
Will save. Failure to take over the host 
leaves your life force in the magic jar, and 
the target automatically succeeds on fur- 
ther saving throws if you attempt to pos- 
sess its body again. 

__ If you are successful, your life force oc- 
cupies the host body, and the host’s life 
force is imprisoned in the magic jar. You 
keep your Intelligence, Wisdom, Cha- 
risma, level, class, base attack bonus, base 
save bonuses, alignment, and mental abili- 
ties. The body retains its Strength, Dex- 
terity, Constitution, hit points, natural abili- 
ties, and automatic abilities. For example, a | 
fish's body breathes water and a troll’s body | 
regenerates. A body with extra limbs does | 
not allow you to make more attacks (or 
more advantageous two-weapon attacks) 
than normal. You can't choose to activate 
the body’s extraordinary or supernatural 
abilities. The creature's spells and spell-like 
abilities do not stay with the body. 

As a standard action, you can shift 
freely from a host to the magic jar if with- 
in range, sending the trapped soul back to 
its body. The spell ends when you shift 
from the jar to your own body. 

If the host body is slain, you return to 
the magic jar, if within range, and the life 
force of the host departs (it is dead). If the 
host body is slain beyond the range of the 
spell, both you and the host die. Any life 


force with nowhere to go is treated as 
slain. 

If the spell ends while you are in the 
magic jay, you return to your body (or die if 
your body is out of range or destroyed). If 
the spell ends while you are in a host, you 
return to your body (or die, if it is out of 
range of your current position), and the 
soul in the magic jar returns to its body (or 

| dies if it is out of range). Destroying the 
receptacle ends the spell, and the spell 
| can be dispelled at either the magic jar or 
lat the host’ location. | 

Focus: A gem or crystal worth at least 

100 gp. 


Magic Missile 

Evocation [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Targets: Up to five creatures, no two of | 
which can be more than 15 ft. apart 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A missile of magical energy darts forth 
from your fingertip and strikes its target, 
dealing 1d4+1 points of force damage. 
The missile strikes unerringly, even if 
the target is in melee combat or has less 
than total cover or total concealment. Spe- 
cific parts of a creature can't be singled 
out. Inanimate objects are not damaged, 
by the spell. ail 
For every two caster levels beyond 1st, 
you gain an additional missile—two at 
3rd level, three at 5th, four at 7th, and the 
maximum of five missiles at 9th level or 
higher. If you shoot multiple missiles, you 
| can have them strike a single creature or 
| several creatures. A single missile can 
| strike only one creature. You must desig- 
nate targets before you check for spell 
resistance or roll damage. 


Magic Mouth 
Illusion (Glamer) 
Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Target: One creature or object 
| Duration: Permanent until discharged 
| Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This spell imbues the chosen object or 
creature with an enchanted mouth that 
suddenly appears and speaks its message 
the next time a specified event occurs. 
The message, which must be twenty-five 
or fewer words long, can be in any lan- 
guage known by you and can be delivered 
over a period of 10 minutes. The mouth 


cannot utter verbal components, use com- 
mand words, or activate magical effects. It 
does, however, move according to the 
words articulated; if it were placed upon a 
statue, the mouth of the statue would 
move and appear to speak. Of course, 
magic mouth can be placed upon a tree, 
rock, or any other object or creature. 

The spell functions when specific con- 
ditions are fulfilled according to your 
command as set in the spell. Commands 
‘can be as general or as detailed as desired, 
although only visual and audible triggers 
can be used, such as the following: “Speak 
only when a venerable female human car- 
rying a sack sits cross-legged within a dis- 
tance of one foot.” Triggers react to what 
appears to be the case. Disguises and illu- 
sions can fool them. Darkness does not 
defeat a visual trigger, but invisibility does. 
‘Silent movement or magical silence 
(defeats audible triggers. Audible triggers 
ican be keyed to general types of noises 
\(footsteps, metal clanking) or to a specific 
[noise or spoken word (when a pin drops, 
lor when anyone says “Boo”). Actions can 
serve as triggers if they are visible or audi- 
‘ble. For example, “Speak when any crea- 
ture touches the statue” is an acceptable 
command if the creature is visible. A 
magic mouth cannot distinguish align- 
ment, level, Hit Dice, or class except by 
external garb. | 

The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet 
per caster level, so a 6th-level caster can. 
command a magic mouth to respond to 
triggers as far as 90 feet away. Regardless 
of range, the mouth can respond only to 
visible or audible triggers and actions in 
line of sight or within hearing distance. 

Magic mouth can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A small bit of 
honeycomb and jade dust worth 10 gp. 


Magic Stone 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 1, Drd 1, Earth 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: Up to three pebbles touched 

Duration: 30 minutes or until 
discharged 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


You transmute as many as three pebbles, 
which can be no larger than sling bullets, 
so that they strike with great force when 
thrown or slung. If hurled, they have a 
range increment of 20 feet. If slung, treat 
them as sling bullets (range increment 50 
feet). The spell gives them a +1 enhance- 
ment bonus on attack and damage rolls. 
The user of the stones makes a normal 


ranged attack. Each stone that hits deals 
1d6+1 points of damage (including the 
spell’s enhancement bonus), or 2d6+2 
points against undead. 


Magic Vestment 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 3, Strength 3, War 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Armor or shield touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


You imbue a suit of armor or a shield with 
an enhancement bonus of +1 per four 
caster levels (maximum +5 at 20th level). 
An outfit of regular clothing counts as ar- 
mor that grants no AC bonus for the pur- 
pose of this spell. 


Magic Weapon 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1, War 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Weapon touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


Magic weapon gives a weapon a +1 en- 
hancement bonus on attack and damage 
rolls. (An enhancement bonus does not 
stack with a masterwork weapon's +1 
bonus on attack rolls.) 

You can't cast this spell on a natural 
weapon, such as an unarmed strike (in- 
stead, see magic fang). A monk’s unarmed 
strike is considered a weapon, and thus it 
can be enhanced by this spell. 


Magic Weapon, Greater 


‘Transmutation 

Level: Clr 4, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target or Targets: One weapon or fifty 
projectiles (all of which must be in 
contact with each other at the time of 
casting) 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


This spell functions like magic weapon, 
except that it gives a weapon an enhance- 
ment bonus on attack and damage rolls of 
+1 per four caster levels (maximum +5). 

Alternatively, you can affect as many as 


fifty arrows, bolts, or bullets. The projec- 
tiles must be of the same kind, and they 
have to be together (in the same quiver or 
other container). Projectiles, but not 
thrown weapons, lose their transmutation 
when used. (Treat shuriken as projectiles, 
rather than as thrown weapons, for the 
purpose of this spell.) | 

Arcane Material Component: Powdered 
lime and carbon. 


Major Creation 
| Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Duration: See text 


This spell functions like minor creation, ex- 
cept that you can also create an object of 
mineral nature: stone, crystal, metal, or 
the like. The duration of the created itemi 
varies with its relative hardness and rarity, 
as indicated on the following table. | 


Hardness and 


Rarity Examples Duration | 
Vegetable matter 2 hr./level | 
Stone, crystal, base metals 1 hr./level 
Precious metals 20 min./level 


Gems 10 min./level 

Rare metal! 1 round/level 

1 Includes adamantine, alchemical silver, 
and mithral. You can’t use major creation | 
to create a cold iron item. See the 
Dungeon Master’s Guide for details. 


Major Image 
Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 
. Duration: Concentration + 3 rounds 


| This spell functions like silent image, ex- 
\cept that sound, smell, and thermal illu- 
[sions are included in the spell effect. 
“While concentrating, you can move the 
image within the range. 
The image disappears when struck by 
an opponent unless you cause the illusion 
to react appropriately. 


Make Whole 
Transmutation 
| Level: Clr 2 =a 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Target: One object of up to 10 cu. ft./ 
level 


This spell functions like mending, except 
that make whole completely repairs an ob- 
ject made of any substance, even one with 
multiple breaks, to be as strong as new. 
The spell does not restore the magical 
abilities of a broken magic item made 
whole, and it cannot mend broken magic 
rods, staffs, or wands. The spell does not 
repair items that have been warped, 


burned, disintegrated, ground to powder, 
melted, or vaporized, nor does it affect 
creatures (including constructs). 


Mark of Justice 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 5, Pal 4 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 

‘Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Permanent; see text 
‘Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


When moral persuasion fails to win a 
criminal over to right conduct, you can 
use mark of justice to encourage the mis- 
creant to walk the straight and narrow 
path. 

You draw an indelible mark on the sub- 
ject and state some behavior on the part of 
ithe subject that will activate the mark. 
{When activated, the mark curses the sub- 
|ject. Typically, you designate some sort of 
‘criminal behavior that activates the mark, 
‘but you can pick any act you please. The 
‘effect of the mark is identical with the 

effect of bestow curse. 

Since this spell takes 10 minutes to cast 

and involves writing on the target, you. 


can cast it only on a creature that is will- 


ing or restrained. | 

Like the effect of bestow curse, a mark of 
{justice cannot be dispelled, but it can be 
‘removed with a break enchantment, limited 
wish, miracle, remove curse, or wish spell. 
Remove curse works only if its caster level 
is equal to or higher than your mark of 
justice caster level. These restrictions 
apply regardless of whether the mark has 
activated. 


Mass (Spell Name) 


Any spell whose name begins with mass is 
alphabetized in this chapter according to 
the second word of the spell name. Thus, 
the description of a mass spell appears 
near the description of the spell on which 
it is based. Spell chains that have mass 
spells in them include those based on the 
spells bear’s endurance, bull’s strength, cat’s 
grace, charm monster, cure critical wounds, 
cure light wounds, cure moderate wounds, cure 
serious wounds, eagle’s splendor, enlarge per- 
son, fox’s cunning, heal, hold monster, hold per- 
son, inflict critical wounds, inflict light 
wounds, inflict moderate wounds, inflict seri- 
ous wounds, invisibility, owl’s wisdom, reduce 
person, and suggestion. 


Maze 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Target: One creature 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You banish the subject into an extradi- 
mensional labyrinth of force planes. Each 
round on its turn, it may attempt a DC 20. 
Intelligence check to escape the labyrinth | 
as a full-round action. If the subject. 
doesn't escape, the maze disappears after 
10 minutes, forcing the subject to leave. 

On escaping or leaving the maze, the 
subject reappears where it had been when 
the maze spell was cast. If this location is 
filled with a solid object, the subject 
appears in the nearest open space. 

Spells and abilities that move a creature 
within a plane, such as teleport and di- 
mension door, do not help a creature escape 
a maze spell, although a plane shift spell 
allows it to exit to whatever plane is desig- 
nated in that spell. Minotaurs are not 
affected by this spell. 


Meld into Stone 


Transmutation [Earth] 

Level: Clr 3, Drd 3 __ 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 10 min./level 


Meld into stone enables you to meld your 

body and possessions into a single block of 
stone. The stone must be large enough to 

accommodate your body in all three dimen- 

sions. When the casting is complete, you 

and not more than 100 pounds of nonliving 

gear merge with the stone. If either condi- 

ition is violated, the spell fails and is wasted. 

| While in the stone, you remain in con- 

tact, however tenuous, with the face of 
the stone through which you melded. You 

remain aware of the passage of time and 

can cast spells on yourself while hiding in 

the stone. Nothing that goes on outside 

the stone can be seen, but you can still | 
hear what happens around you. Minor. 
physical damage to the stone does not | 
harm you, but its partial destruction (to 

the extent that you no longer fit within it) 

expels you and deals you 5d6 points of 

damage. The stone's complete destruction 

expels you and slays you instantly unless 

you make a DC 18 Fortitude save. 

Any time before the duration expires, 
you can step out of the stone through the 
surface that you entered. If the spell’s 
duration expires or the effect is dispelled 
before you voluntarily exit the stone, you 
are violently expelled and take 5d6 points 
of damage. 

The following spells harm you if cast 
upon the stone that you are occupying: 
Stone to flesh expels you and deals you 5d6 


points of damage. Stone shape deals you 
3d6 points of damage but does not expel 
you. Transmute rock to mud expels you and 
then slays you instantly unless you make 
a DC 18 Fortitude save, in which case you 
are merely expelled. Finally, passwall ex- 
pels you without damage. 


Melf’s Acid Arrow 

_Conjuration (Creation) [Acid] 

| Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

| Components: V, S, M, F 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Effect: One arrow of acid 
Duration: 1 round + 1 round/three 

levels 

Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


A magical arrow of acid springs from your 
hand and speeds to its target. You must suc- 


ceed on a ranged touch attack to hit youn 


target. The arrow deals 2d4 points of acid, 
damage with no splash damage. For every 
three caster levels (to a maximum of 18th), 
the acid, unless somehow neutralized, lasts 
for another round, dealing another 2d4 
points of damage in that round. 

Material Component: Powdered rhubarb 
leaf and an adder’s stomach. 

Focus: A dart. 


Mending 
Transmutation =! 
Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 | 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 10 ft. 
Target: One object of up to 1 lb. 
_Duration: Instantaneous 
| Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
| Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


| Mending repairs small breaks or tears in 
objects (but not warps, such as might be 
caused by a warp wood spell). It will weld 
broken metallic objects such as a ring, a 
chain link, a medallion, or a slender 
dagger, providing but one break exists. 
Ceramic or wooden objects with multiple 
breaks can be invisibly rejoined to be as 
_ strong as new. A hole in a leather sack or a 
| wineskin is completely healed over by 
| mending. The spell can repair a magic 
litem, but the item’s magical abilities are 
not restored. (For restoring a broken 
magic item’s abilities, see the item cre- 
ation feats in Chapter 5: Feats.) The spell 
cannot mend broken magic rods, staffs, or 
wands, nor does it affect creatures (in- 
cluding constructs). 


Message 
Transmutation [Language-Dependent] 


Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 


Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One creature/level 
Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can whisper messages and receive 
whispered replies with little chance of be- 
ing overheard. You point your finger at 
‘each creature you want to receive the 
message. When you whisper, the whis- 
pered message is audible to all targeted 
creatures within range. Magical silence, 1 
foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal (or 
a thin sheet of lead), or 3 feet of wood or 
dirt blocks the spell. The message does 
not have to travel in a straight line. It can 
circumvent a barrier if there is an open 
‚path between you and the subject, and the 
\path’s entire length lies within the spell’s 
\range. The creatures that receive the mes- 
[sage can whisper a reply that you hear. 
|The spell transmits sound, not meaning. 
lIt doesn’t transcend language barriers. 
| Note: To speak a message, you must 
mouth the words and whisper, possibly al- 
lowing observers the opportunity to read 
your lips. 


Focus: A short piece of copper wire., 


Meteor Swarm 


Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

‘Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: Four 40-ft.-radius spreads; see text 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None or Reflex half; see 
text B 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Meteor swarm is a very powerful and spec- 
tacular spell that is similar to fireball in 
many aspects. When you cast it, four 2- 
foot-diameter spheres spring from your 
outstretched hand and streak in straight 
lines to the spots you select. The meteor 
spheres leave a fiery trail of sparks. 

If you aim a sphere at a specific crea- 
ture, you may make a ranged touch attack 
to strike the target with the meteor. Any 
creature struck by one of these spheres 
takes 2d6 points of bludgeoning damage 
(no save) and receives no saving throw 
against the sphere’s fire damage (see 
below). If a targeted sphere misses its tar- 
get, it simply explodes at the nearest 
corner of the target’s space. You may aim 
more than one meteor at the same target. 

Once a sphere reaches its destination, it 
explodes in a 40-foot-radius spread, dealing 
6dé points of fire damage to each creature 
in the area. If a creature is within the area 
of more than one sphere, it must save sepa- 


rately against each. (Fire resistance applies 
to each sphere’s damage individually.) 


Mind Blank 


Abjuration 

Level: Protection 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 

Duration: 24 hours 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject is protected from all devices 
and spells that detect, influence, or read 
emotions or thoughts. This spell protects 
against all mind-affecting spells and ef- 
fects as well as information gathering by 
divination spells or effects. Mind blank 
even foils limited wish, miracle, and wish 
spells when they are used in such a way as 
to affect the subject's mind or to gain in- 
formation about it. In the case of scrying 
that scans an area the creature is in, such 
as arcane eye, the spell works but the crea- 
ture simply isn't detected. Scrying at- 
tempts that are targeted specifically at the 
subject do not work at all. 


Mind Fog 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 

| Affecting] 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Fog spreads in 20-ft. radius, 20 ft. 
high 

Duration: 30 minutes and 2d6 rounds; 

| see text 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Mind fog produces a bank of thin mist that 
weakens the mental resistance of those 
caught in it. Creatures in the mind fog take 
a —10 competence penalty on Wisdom 
checks and Will saves. (A creature that suc- | 
cessfully saves against the fog is not, 
affected and need not make further saves | 
even ifit remains in the fog.) Affected crea- 
tures take the penalty as long as they 
remain in the fog and for 2d6 rounds there- 
after. The fog is stationary and lasts for 30 
minutes (or until dispersed by wind). 

A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses 
the fog in four rounds; a strong wind (21+ 
mph) disperses the fog in 1 round. 

The fog is thin and does not signifi- 
cantly hamper vision. 


Minor Creation 


Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 minute 


254 


Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: Unattended, nonmagical object 
of nonliving plant matter, up to 
1 cu. ft./level 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You create a nonmagical, unattended ob- 
ject of nonliving, vegetable matter— 
‘linen clothes, a hemp rope, a wooden 
ladder, and so forth. The volume of the 
litem created cannot exceed 1 cubic foot 

per caster level. You must succeed on an 

appropriate skill check to make a complex 
item, such as a Craft (bowmaking) check 
to make straight arrow shafts. 

Attempting to use any created object as 
a material component causes the spell to 
fail. 

Material Component: A tiny piece of 
matter of the same sort of item you plan 
to create with minor creation—a bit of 
twisted hemp to create rope, and so forth. 


Minor Image 


Illusion (Figment) 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Duration: Concentration +2 rounds 


This spell functions like silent image, ex- 
cept that minor image includes some 
minor sounds but not understandable 
speech. 


Miracle 


Evocation | 
Level: Clr 9, Luck 9 

Components: V, S, XP; see text 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: See text 

| Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
_Duration: See text 

| Saving Throw: See text 

| Spell Resistance: Yes 


You don’t so much cast a miracle as request 
one. You state what you would like to 
have happen and request that your deity 
(or the power you pray to for spells) inter- 
cede. The DM then determines the par- 
ticular effect of the miracle. 
A miracle can do any of the following 
things. za 
|° Duplicate any cleric spell of 8th level or 
lower (including spells to which you 
|__ have access because of your domains). 
° Duplicate any other spell of 7th level or 
lower. | 
e Undo the harmful effects of certain 
spells, such as feeblemind or insanity. 
© Have any effect whose power level is in 
line with the above effects. 


If the miracle has any of the above effects, 
casting it has no experience point cost. 


Alternatively, a cleric can make a very 
powerful request. Casting such a miracle 
costs the cleric 5,000 XP because of the 
powerful divine energies involved. Ex- 
amples of especially powerful miracles of 
this sort could include the following. 
© Swinging the tide of a battle in your 

favor by raising fallen allies to continue 

fighting. 
ie Moving you and your allies, with all 
your and their gear, from one plane to 

another through planar barriers to a 
| specific locale with no chance of error. 
° Protecting a city from an earthquake, 

volcanic eruption, flood, or other major 

natural disaster. 


In any event, a request that is out of line 
with the deity’s (or alignment’s) nature is 
refused. 
__ Aduplicated spell allows saving throws 
‘and spell resistance as normal, but the 
[save DCs are as for a 9th-level spell. When 
la miracle duplicates a spell that has an XP 
|cost, you must pay that cost. When a mir- 
lacle spell duplicates a spell with a material 
component that costs more than 100 gp, 
‘you must provide that component. 

XP Cost: 5,000 XP (for some uses of the 
miracle spell; see above). 


Mirage Arcana 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Area: One 20-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: Concentration +1 hour/ 
level (D) 


This spell functions like hallucinatory ter- 
rain, except that it enables you to make any 


area appear to be something other than it 


is. The illusion includes audible, visual, tac- 
tile, and olfactory elements. Unlike halluci- 
natory terrain, the spell can alter the appear- 
ance of structures (or add them where 
none are present). Still, it can't disguise, 
conceal, or add creatures (though creatures 
within the area might hide themselves 
within the illusion just as they can hide 
themselves within a real location). 


Mirror Image 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal; see text 
Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


Several illusory duplicates of you pop into 
being, making it difficult for enemies to 
know which target to attack. The fig- 
ments stay near you and disappear when 
struck. 


Mirror image creates 1d4 images plus 
one image per three caster levels (maxi- 
mum eight images total). These figments 
separate from you and remain in a cluster, 
each within 5 feet of at least one other fig- 
ment or you. You can move into and 
through a mirror image. When you and the 
mirror image separate, observers can't use | 
vision or hearing to tell which one is you | 
and which the image. The figments may | 
also move through each other. The fig- 
ments mimic your actions, pretending to 
cast spells when you cast a spell, drink 
potions when you drink a potion, levitate 
when you levitate, and so on. 

Enemies attempting to attack you or 
cast spells at you must select from among 
indistinguishable targets. Generally, roll 
randomly to see whether the selected 
target is real or a figment. Any successful 
attack against an image destroys it. An 
image’s AC is 10 + your size modifier + 
your Dex modifier. Figments seem to 
react normally to area spells (such as look- 
ing like they’re burned or dead after being 
hit by a fireball). 

While moving, you can merge with 
and split off from figments so that en- 
emies who have learned which image is 
real are again confounded. 

An attacker must be able to see the 
images to be fooled. If you are invisible or 
an attacker shuts his or her eyes, the spell 
has no effect. (Being unable to see carries 
the same penalties as being blinded.) 


Misdirection 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature or object, up to a 
10-ft. cube in size 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: No 


By means of this spell, you misdirect the | 
information from divination spells that | 
reveal auras (detect evil, detect magic, discern 
lies, and the like). On casting the spell, you 
choose another object within range. For 
the duration of the spell, the subject of 
misdirection is detected as if it were the 
other object. (Neither the subject nor the 
other object gets a saving throw against 
this effect.) Detection spells provide in- 
formation based on the second object 
rather than on the actual target of the 
detection unless the caster of the detec- 
tion succeeds on a Will save. For instance, 
you could make yourself detect as a tree if 
one were within range at casting: not evil, 
not lying, not magical, neutral in align- 
ment, and so forth. This spell does not 


affect other types of divination magic 
(augury, detect thoughts, clairaudience/clair- 
voyance, and the like). 


Mislead 
Illusion (Figment, Glamer) 
Level: Brd 5, Luck 6, Sor/Wiz 6, 
Trickery 6 
Components: S 
. Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) li 
| Target/Effect: You/one illusory double | 
| Duration: 1 round/level (D) and 
concentration + 3 rounds; see text 
Saving Throw: None or Will disbelief (if 
interacted with); see text 
Spell Resistance: No 


You become invisible (as greater invisibil- 
ity, a glamer), and at the same time, an 
illusory double of you (as major image, a 
figment) appears. You are then free to go 


elsewhere while your double moves, 


away. The double appears within range 
but thereafter moves as you direct it 
(which requires concentration begin- 
ning on the first round after the cast- 
ing). You can make the figment appear 
superimposed perfectly over your own 
body so that observers don’t notice an 
image appearing and you turning invis- 
ible. You and the figment can then move 
in different directions. The double 
moves at your speed and can talk and 
gesture as if it were real, but it cannot 
attack or cast spells, though it can pre- 
tend to do so. re 
The illusory double lasts as long as you 
concentrate upon it, plus 3 additional 
rounds. After you cease concentration, 
_the illusory double continues to carry out 
| the same activity (for instance, fleeing 
{down a hallway) until the duration 
| expires. The greater invisibility lasts for 1 
round per level, regardless of concen- 
tration. 


t 


Modify Memory 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round; see text 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Target: One living creature_ 
| Duration: Permanent 
| Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You reach into the subject’s mind and 

modify as many as 5 minutes of its memo- 

ries in one of the following ways. 

¢ Eliminate all memory of an event the 
subject actually experienced. This spell 
cannot negate charm, geas/quest, sugges- 
tion, or similar spells. 


e Allow the subject to recall with perfect 
clarity an event it actually experienced. 
For instance, it could recall every word 
from a 5-minute conversation or every 
detail from a passage in a book. 

e Change the details of an event the sub- 
ject actually experienced. 

e Implant a memory of an event the sub- 
ject never experienced. 


‘Casting the spell takes 1 round. If the sub- 
ject fails to save, you proceed with the 


spell by spending as much as 5 minutes (a 
period of time equal to the amount of 
memory time you want to modify) visual- 
izing the memory you wish to modify in 
the subject. If your concentration is dis- 
turbed before the visualization is com- 
plete, or if the subject is ever beyond the 
spells range during this time, the spell is 


lost. 


A modified memory does not neces- 


sarily affect the subject's actions, particu- 
arly if it contradicts the creature’s natural 
linclinations. An illogical modified mem- 
lory, such as the subject recalling how 
much it enjoyed drinking poison, is dis- 
missed by the creature as a bad dream ora 


memory muddied by too much wine. 
More useful applications of modify mem- 


ory include implanting memories of 
friendly encounters with you (inclining 
the subject to act favorably toward you), 


changing the details of orders given to 


the subject by a superior, or causing the 


subject to forget that it ever saw you or 


_your party. The DM reserves the right to 


decide whether a modified memory is 
too nonsensical to significantly affect the 
subject. 


Moment of Prescience 


Divination 

Level: Luck 8, Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
discharged 


This spell grants you a powerful sixth 
sense in relation to yourself. Once 
during the spell’s duration, you may 
choose to use its effect. This spell grants 
you an insight bonus equal to your caster 
level (maximum +25) on any single 
attack roll, opposed ability or skill check, 
or saving throw. Alternatively, you can 
apply the insight bonus to your AC 
against a single attack (even if flat- 
footed). Activating the effect doesn’t take 
an action; you can even activate it on 
another character's turn if needed. You 
must choose to use the moment of pre- 
science before you make the roll it is to 
modify. Once used, the spell ends. 


You can't have more than one moment of 
prescience active on you at the same time. 


Mordenkainen’s Disjunction 


Abjuration 

Level: Magic 9, Sor/Wiz 9 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Area: All magical effects and magic 
items within a 40-ft.-radius burst 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: No 


All magical effects and magic items with- 
in the radius of the spell, except for those 
that you carry or touch, are disjoined. 
That is, spells and spell-like effects are 
separated into their individual compo- 
nents (ending the effect as a dispel magic 
spell does), and each permanent magic 
item must make a successful Will save or 
be turned into a normal item. An item ina 
creature's possession uses its own Will 
save bonus or its possessor’s Will save 
bonus, whichever is higher. 

You also have a 1% chance per caster 

level of destroying an antimagic field. If the 
antimagic field survives the disjunction, no 
items within it are disjoined. 
|_ Even artifacts are subject to disjunction, 
though there is only a 1% chance per 
caster level of actually affecting such 
powerful items. Additionally, if an arti- 
fact is destroyed, you must make a DC 25 
Will save or permanently lose all spell- 
casting abilities. (These abilities cannot 
be recovered by mortal magic, not even 
miracle or wish.) 
___Note: Destroying artifacts is a danger- 
ous business, and it is 95% likely to attract 
ithe attention of some powerful being who 
has an interest in or connection with the 
device. 


Mordenkainen’s Faithful Hound 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Effect: Phantom watchdog 

Duration: 1 hour/caster level or until 
discharged, then 1 round/caster level; 
see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You conjure up a phantom watchdog that 
is invisible to everyone but yourself. It 
then guards the area where it was con- 
jured (it does not move). The hound 
immediately starts barking loudly if any 
Small or larger creature approaches with- 
in 30 feet of it. (Those within 30 feet of 
the hound when it is conjured may move 


255 


. 


about in the area, but if they leave and re- 
turn, they activate the barking.) The 
hound sees invisible and ethereal crea- 
tures. It does not react to figments, but it 
does react to shadow illusions. 

If an intruder approaches to within 5 
feet of the hound, the dog stops barking 
and delivers a vicious bite (+10 attack bo- 
nus, 2d6+3 points of piercing damage), 

[once per round. The dog also gets the bo- 
nuses appropriate to an invisible creature. 

[The dog is considered ready to bite 

l intruders, so it delivers its first bite on the 
intruder’s turn. Its bite is the equivalent of 
a magic weapon for the purpose of dam- 
age reduction. The hound cannot be 
attacked, but it can be dispelled. 

The spell lasts for 1 hour per caster 
level, but once the hound begins barking, 
it lasts only 1 round per caster level. If you 
are ever more than 100 feet distant from 
the hound, the spell ends. | 

Material Component: A tiny silver whis- 
tle, a piece of bone, and a thread. 


Mordenkainen’s Lucubration 
Transmutation 

Level: Wiz6 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Instantaneous 


You instantly recall any one spell of 5th 
level or lower that you have used during 
the past 24 hours. The spell must have 
been actually cast during that period. The 

recalled spell is stored in your mind as 

through prepared in the normal fashion. 
If the recalled spell requires material 
| components, you must provide them. The 
recovered spell is not usable until the 

| material components are available. 


Mordenkainen’s Magnificent 
Mansion 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Extradimensional mansion, up to 
|__ three 10-ft. cubes/level (S) __ 
| Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
| Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


You conjure up an extradimensional 
dwelling that has a single entrance on the 
plane from which the spell was cast. The 
entry point looks like a faint shimmering 
in the air that is 4 feet wide and 8 feet 
high. Only those you designate may enter 
the mansion, and the portal is shut and 
made invisible behind you when you 


enter. You may open it again from your 
own side at will. Once observers have 
passed beyond the entrance, they are in a 
magnificent foyer with numerous cham- 
bers beyond. The atmosphere is clean, 
fresh, and warm. 

You can create any floor plan you desire 
to the limit of the spell’s effect. The place 
is furnished and contains sufficient food- 
stuffs to serve a nine-course banquet to a 
dozen people per caster level. A staff of 
‘near-transparent servants (as many as two 
‘per caster level), liveried and obedient, 
wait upon all who enter. The servants 
function as unseen servant spells except 
that they are visible and can go anywhere 
in the mansion. 

Since the place can be entered only 
through its special portal, outside condi- 
tions do not affect the mansion, nor do 
conditions inside it pass to the plane 
(beyond. 

__ Focus: A miniature portal carved from 
livory, a small piece of polished marble, and 
la tiny silver spoon (each item worth 5 gp). 


Mordenkainen’s Private Sanctum 


„Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 30-ft. cube/level (S) 
Duration: 24 hours (D) 

(Saving Throw: None 

‘Spell Resistance: No 


This spell ensures privacy. Anyone look- 
ing into the area from outside sees only a 
dark, foggy mass. Darkvision cannot pen- 
etrate it. No sounds, no matter how loud, 
can escape the area, so nobody can eaves- 


drop from outside. Those inside can see) 


out normally. 

Divination (scrying) spells cannot per- 
ceive anything within the area, and those 
within are immune to detect thoughts. The 
ward prevents speech between those in- 
side and those outside (because it blocks 
sound), but it does not prevent other com- 
munication, such as a sending or message 
spell, or telepathic communication, such 
as that between a wizard and her familiar. 

The spell does not prevent creatures or 
objects from moving into and out of the 
area. 

Mordenkainen’s private sanctum can be 
made permanent with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A thin sheet of 
lead, a piece of opaque glass, a wad of 
cotton or cloth, and powdered chrysolite. 


Mordenkainen’s Sword 


Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, F 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One sword 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell brings into being a shimmer- | 
ing, swordlike plane of force. The sword | 
strikes at any opponent within its range, | 
as you desire, starting in the round that 
you cast the spell. The sword attacks its 
designated target once each round on 
your turn. Its attack bonus is equal to your 
caster level + your Int bonus or your Cha 
bonus (for wizards or sorcerers, respec- 
tively) with an additional +3 enhance- 
ment bonus. As a force effect, it can strike 
ethereal and incorporeal creatures. It 
deals 4d6+3 points of force damage, with a 
threat range of 19-20 and a critical multi- 
plier of x2. 

The sword always strikes from your 
direction. It does not get a bonus for 
flanking or help a combatant get one. If 
the sword goes beyond the spell range 
from you, if it goes out of your sight, or if 
you are not directing it, the sword returns 
to you and hovers. 
| Each round after the first, you can use a 
standard action to switch the sword to a 
new target. If you do not, the sword con- 
tinues to attack the previous round’s tar- 
get. The sword cannot be attacked or 
harmed by physical attacks, but dispel 
magic, disintegrate, a sphere of annihilation, 
or a rod of cancellation affects it. The sword’s 
AC is 13 (10, +0 size bonus for Medium 
object, +3 deflection bonus). 

If an attacked creature has spell resist- 
ance, the resistance is checked the first 
time Mordenkainen’s sword strikes it. If the 
sword is successfully resisted, the spell is 
dispelled. If not, the sword has its normal 
full effect on that creature for the dura- 
tion of the spell. 

Focus: A miniature platinum sword 
with a grip and pommel of copper and 
zinc. It costs 250 gp to construct. 


Mount 


Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One mount 

Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You summon a light horse or a pony (your 
choice) to serve you as a mount. The steed 
serves willingly and well. The mount comes 
with a bit and bridle and a riding saddle. 

Material Component: A bit of horse hair. 


Move Earth 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: See text 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: Dirt in an area up to 750 ft. square | 

and up to 10 ft. deep (S) 

Duration: Instantaneous 

| Saving Throw: None 

| Spell Resistance: No 


| Move earth moves dirt (clay, loam, sand), 
possibly collapsing embankments, mov- 
ing hillocks, shifting dunes, and so forth. 
However, in no event can rock formations 
be collapsed or moved. The area to be 
affected determines the casting time. For 
every 150-foot square (up to 10 feet deep), 
casting takes 10 minutes. The maximum 
area, 750 feet by 750 feet, takes 4 hours 
and 10 minutes to move. 


This spell does not violently break the i 


surface of the ground. Instead, it creates 
wavelike crests and troughs, with the 
earth reacting with glacierlike fluidity, 
until the desired result is achieved. Trees, 
structures, rock formations, and such are 
mostly unaffected except for changes in 
elevation and relative topography. —__ 

The spell cannot be used for tunneling 
and is generally too slow to trap or bury 
creatures. Its primary use is for digging or 
filling moats or for adjusting terrain con- 
tours before a battle. =i 

This spell has no effect on earth crea- 
tures. Sar Ed 

Material Component: A mixture of soils 
(clay, loam, and sand) in a small bag, and 
an iron blade. 


Neutralize Poison 
| Conjuration (Healing) 
| Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 3, Pal 4, Rgr 3 
| Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature or object of up to 1 cu. ft./ 
level touched 
Duration: 10 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


| You detoxify any sort of venom in the 

| creature or object touched. A poisoned 

| creature suffers no additional effects from 
the poison, and any temporary effects are 
ended, but the spell does not reverse 
instantaneous effects, such as hit point 
damage, temporary ability damage, or 
effects that don't go away on their own. 
For example, if a poison has dealt 3 points 
of Constitution damage to a character and 
threatens to deal more damage later, this 
spell prevents the future damage but does 
not repair the damage already done. 


The creature is immune to any poison 
it is exposed to during the duration of the 
spell. Unlike with delay poison, such ef- 
fects aren't postponed until after the dura- 
tion—the creature need not make any 
saves against poison effects applied to it 
during the length of the spell. 

This spell can instead neutralize the 
poison in a poisonous creature or object 


for the duration of the spell, at the caster’s 


option. 
Arcane Material Component: A bit of 


charcoal. 


Nightmare 


Illusion (Phantasm) [Mind-Affecting, 
Evil] 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 


Range: Unlimited 

‘Target: One living creature 
‘Duration: Instantaneous 

[Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
|Spell Resistance: Yes 


You send a hideous and unsettling phantas- 
‘mal vision to a specific creature that you 


name or otherwise specifically designate. 
The nightmare prevents restful sleep and 


causes 1d10 points of damage. The night-, 
mare leaves the subject fatigued and unable. 
to regain arcane spells for the next 24 hours., 


The difficulty of the save depends on 


how well you know the subject and what 


sort of physical connection (if any) you 


have to that creature. 


Knowledge Will Save Modifier 

None! +10 

Secondhand (you have heard of the +5 
subject) 


Firsthand (you have met the subject) +0. 


Familiar (you know the subject well) =5 
1 You must have some sort of connection to 
a creature you have no knowledge of. 


Connection Will Save Modifier 
Likeness or picture -2 
Possession or garment —4 


Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc. —10 


Dispel evil cast on the subject while you 
are casting the spell dispels the nightmare 
and causes you to be stunned for 10 min- 
utes per caster level of the dispel evil. 

If the recipient is awake when the spell 
begins, you can choose to cease casting 
(ending the spell) or to enter a trance until 
the recipient goes to sleep, whereupon you 
become alert again and complete the cast- 
ing. If you are disturbed during the trance, 
you must succeed on a Concentration 
check as if you were in the midst of casting 
a spell (see page 69) or the spell ends. 

If you choose to enter a trance, you are 
not aware of your surroundings or the 


activities around you while in the trance. 
You are defenseless, both physically and 
mentally, while in the trance. (You always 
fail any saving throw, for example.) 

Creatures who don't sleep (such as 
elves, but not half-elves) or dream are im- 
mune to this spell. 


Nondetection 


Abjuration 

Level: Rgr 4, Sor/Wiz 3, Trickery 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature or object touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, 
object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) 


The warded creature or object becomes 
difficult to detect by divination spells 
such as clairaudience/clairvoyance, locate 
object, and detect spells. Nondetection also 
prevents location by such magic items as 
crystal balls. If a divination is attempted 
against the warded creature or item, the 
caster of the divination must succeed ona 
caster level check (1d20 + caster level) 
against a DC of 11 + the caster level of the 
spellcaster who cast nondetection. If you 
cast nondetection on yourself or on an item 
‘currently in your possession, the DC is 15 
+ your caster level. 

If cast on a creature, nondetection wards 
the creature’s gear as well as the creature 
itself. 

Material Component: A pinch of dia- 
mond dust worth 50 gp. 


Nystul’s Magic Aura 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 1, Magic 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One touched object weighing up 
to 5 lb./level 

Duration: One day/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None; see text 

Spell Resistance: No 


You alter an item's aura so that it registers 
to detect spells (and spells with similar 
capabilities) as though it were nonmagi- 
cal, or a magic item of a kind you specify, 
or the subject of a spell you specify. You 
could make an ordinary sword register as a 
+2 vorpal sword as far as magical detection 
is concerned or make a +2 vorpal sword reg- 
ister as if it were a +1 sword or even a non- 
magical sword. 

If the object bearing Nystul’s magic aura 
has identify cast on it or is similarly exam- 
ined, the examiner recognizes that the 
aura is false and detects the object's actual 
qualities if he succeeds on a Will save. 


207 


. 


Otherwise, he believes the aura and no 
amount of testing reveals what the true 
magic is. 

If the targeted item’s own aura is excep- 
tionally powerful (if it is an artifact, for 
instance), Nystul’s magic aura doesn't work. 

Note: A magic weapon, shield, or suit of 
armor must be a masterwork item, so a 
sword of average make, for example, looks, 

_suspicious if it has a magical aura. | 
| Focus: A small square of silk that must 
be passed over the object that receives the 
aura. 


Obscure Object 

Abjuration 

Level: Brd 1, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One object touched of up to 100 
tb./level = 

Duration: 8 hours (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This spell hides an object from location by 
divination (scrying) effects, such as the scry- 
ing spell or a crystal ball. Such an attempt 
automatically fails (if the divination is tar- 
geted on the object) or fails to perceive the 
object (if the divination is targeted on a 
nearby location, object, or person). 

Arcane Material Component: A piece of 
chameleon skin. 


Obscuring Mist 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Air 1, Clr 1, Drd 1, Sor/Wiz 1, 

Water 1 

| Components: V, S 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 

| Range: 20 ft. 

| Effect: Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius 

___ from you, 20 ft. high 

| Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


A misty vapor arises around you. It is sta- 

tionary once created. The vapor obscures all 

sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. 

A creature 5 feet away has concealment 
| (attacks have a 20% miss chance). Creatures 
| farther away have total concealment (50% 
| miss chance, and the attacker cannot use 
| sight to locate the target). 

A moderate wind (11+ mph), such as 
from a gust of wind spell, disperses the fog, 
in 4 rounds. A strong wind (21+ mph) dis- 
perses the fog in 1 round. A fireball, flame 
strike, or similar spell burns away the fog 
in the explosive or fiery spell’s area. A wall 
of fire burns away the fog in the area into 
which it deals damage. 

This spell does not function under- 
water. 


Open/Close 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: Object weighing up to 30 lb. or 
portal that can be opened or closed 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You can open or close (your choice) a 
door, chest, box, window, bag, pouch, bot- 
tle, barrel, or other container. If anything 
resists this activity (such as a bar on a door 
or a lock on a chest), the spell fails. In 
addition, the spell can only open and 
close things weighing 30 pounds or less. 
Thus, doors, chests, and similar objects 
sized for enormous creatures may be 
\beyond this spell’s ability to affect. 
Focus: A brass key. 


Order’s Wrath 


|Evocation [Lawful] 

Level: Law 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Burst that fills a 30-ft. cube 


Duration: Instantaneous (1 round); see __ 


text 
Saving Throw: Will partial; see text 
(Spell Resistance: Yes 


You channel lawful power to smite ene- 
mies. The power takes the form of a three- 
dimensional grid of energy. Only chaotic 
and neutral (not lawful) creatures are 
harmed by the spell. 

The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per 


two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to, 


chaotic creatures (or 1d6 points of damage 
per caster level, maximum 10d6, to chaotic 
outsiders) and causes them to be dazed for 
1 round. A successful Will save reduces the 
damage to half and negates the daze effect. 

The spell deals only half damage to 
creatures who are neither chaotic nor 
lawful, and they are not dazed. They can 
reduce the damage in half again (down to 
one-quarter of the roll) with a successful 
Will save. 


Otiluke’s Freezing Sphere 


Evocation [Cold] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Target, Effect, or Area: See text 

Duration: Instantaneous or 1 
round/level; see text 

Saving Throw: Reflex half; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Otiluke’s freezing sphere creates a frigid 
globe of cold energy that streaks from 
your fingertips to the location you select, 
where it explodes in a 10-foot-radius 
burst, dealing 1d6 points of cold damage 
per caster level (maximum 15d6) to each 
creature in the area. An elemental 
(water) creature instead takes 1d8 points | 
of cold damage per caster level (maxi-) 
mum 15d8). | 

If the freezing sphere strikes a body of 
water or a liquid that is principally water 
(not including water-based creatures), it 
freezes the liquid to a depth of 6 inches 
over an area equal to 100 square feet (a 10- 
foot square) per caster level (maximum 
1,500 square feet). This ice lasts for 1 
round per caster level. Creatures that 
were swimming on the surface of frozen 
water become trapped in the ice. At- 
tempting to break free is a full-round 
action. A trapped creature must make a 
DC 25 Strength check or a DC 25 Escape 
Artist check to do so. 

You can refrain from firing the globe 
after completing the spell, if you wish. 
Treat this as a touch spell for which you 
are holding the charge (see page 176). You 
can hold the charge for as long as 1 round 
per level, at the end of which time the 
freezing sphere bursts centered on you (and 
you receive no saving throw to resist its 
effect). Firing the globe in a later round is 
a standard action. 

Focus: A small crystal sphere. 


Otiluke’s Resilient Sphere 


Evocation [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Effect: 1-ft.-diameter/level sphere, 
centered around a creature 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Reflex negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A globe of shimmering force encloses a | 
creature, provided the creature is small | 
enough to fit within the diameter of the | 
sphere. The sphere contains its subject 
for the spells duration. The sphere is not 
subject to damage of any sort except from 
a rod of cancellation, a rod of negation, a dis- 
integrate spell, or a targeted dispel magic 
spell. These effects destroy the sphere 
without harm to the subject. Nothing can 
pass through the sphere, inside or out, 
though the subject can breathe normally. 
The subject may struggle, but the sphere 
cannot be physically moved either by 
people outside it or by the struggles of 
those within. 

Material Component: A hemispherical 
piece of clear crystal and a matching 
hemispherical piece of gum arabic. 


Otiluke’s Telekinetic Sphere 
Evocation [Force] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: 1-ft-diameter/level sphere, 
centered around creatures or objects 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
_Saving Throw: Reflex negates (object) 
| Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


| This spell functions like Otiluke’s resilient 
sphere, with the addition that the crea- 
tures or objects inside the globe are near- 
ly weightless. Anything contained within 
an Otiluke’s telekinetic sphere weighs only 
one-sixteenth of its normal weight. You 
can telekinetically lift anything in the 
sphere that normally weighs 5,000 
pounds or less. The telekinetic control 
extends from you out to medium range 


(100 feet + 10 feet per caster level) after_ 


the sphere has succeeded in encapsulat- 
ing its contents. | 
You can move objects or creatures in the 
sphere that weigh a total of 5,000 pounds 
or less by concentrating on the sphere. You 
can begin moving a sphere in the round 
after casting the spell. If you concentrate 
on doing so (a standard action), you can 
move the sphere as much as 30 feet in a 
round. If you cease concentrating, the 
sphere does not move in that round (ifona 
level surface) or descends at its falling rate 
(if aloft) until it reaches a level surface, or 
the spell’s duration expires, or you begin 
concentrating again. If you cease concen- 
trating (voluntarily or due to failing a Con- 
centration check), you can resume concen- 
_trating on your next turn or any later turn 
| during the spell’s duration. 
|__ The sphere falls at a rate of only 60 feet 
| per round, which is not fast enough to 
cause damage to the contents of the 
sphere. 

You can move the sphere telekineti- 
cally even if you are in it. 

Material Component: A hemispherical 
piece of clear crystal, a matching hemi- 
spherical piece of gum arabic, and a pair 
of small bar magnets. 


t 


Otto’s Irresistible Dance _ 
| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
| Affecting] 
| Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: 1d4+1 rounds 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The subject feels an undeniable urge to 
dance and begins doing so, complete 


with foot shuffling and tapping. The 
spell effect makes it impossible for the 
subject to do anything other than caper 
and prance in place. The effect imposes a 
—4 penalty to Armor Class and a —10 
penalty on Reflex saves, and it negates 
any AC bonus granted by a shield the 
target holds. The dancing subject pro- 
vokes attacks of opportunity each round 


(on its turn. 


Overland Flight 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 
Range: Personal 
Target: You 

Duration: 1 hour/level 


This spell functions like a fly spell, except 


you can fly at a speed of 40 feet (30 feet if 
‘wearing medium or heavy armor, or if 
\carrying a medium or heavy load) with 
‘average maneuverability. When using 
ithis spell for long-distance movement, 
‘you can hustle without taking nonlethal 
damage (a forced march still requires 


Constitution checks). This means you 
can cover 64 miles in an eight-hour pe- 
riod of flight (or 48 miles at a speed of 30 


feet). See page 164 for more on overland) 


movement. 


Owl’s Wisdom 
Transmutation 
‘Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 2, Rgr 2, 


Sor/Wiz 2 


‘Components: V, S, M/DF 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


The transmuted creature becomes wiser. 
The spell grants a +4 enhancement bonus 
to Wisdom, adding the usual benefit to 
Wisdom-related skills. Clerics, druids, 
paladins, and rangers (and other Wisdom- 
based spellcasters) who receive owl’s 
wisdom do not gain any additional bonus 
spells for the increased Wisdom, but the 
save DCs for their spells increase. 

Arcane Material Component: A few feath- 
ers, or a pinch of droppings, from an owl. 


Owl’s Wisdom, Mass 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 6, Drd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like owl’s wisdom, ex- 
cept that it affects multiple creatures. 


Passwall 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Effect: 5 ft. by 8 ft. opening, 10 ft. deep 
plus 5 ft. deep per three additional 
levels 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You create a passage through wooden, plas- 
ter, or stone walls, but not through metal or 
other harder materials. The passage is 10 
feet deep plus an additional 5 feet deep per 
three caster levels above 9th (15 feet at 12th, 
20 feet at 15th, and a maximum of 25 feet 
deep at 18th level). If the wall’s thickness is 
more than the depth of the passage created, 
then a single passwall simply makes a niche 
or short tunnel. Several passwall spells can 
then form a continuing passage to breach 
very thick walls. When passwall ends, crea- 
tures within the passage are ejected out the 
nearest exit. If someone dispels the passwall 
or you dismiss it, creatures in the passage 
are ejected out the far exit, if there is one, or 
out the sole exit if there is only one. 

| Material Component: A pinch of sesame 
seeds. 


Pass without Trace 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Targets: One creature/level touched 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject or subjects can move through 
any type of terrain—mud, snow, dust, or 
the like—and leave neither footprints 
nor scent. Tracking the subjects is impos- 
sible by nonmagical means. 


Permanency 


Universal 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, XP 

Casting Time: 2 rounds 

Range: See text 

Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: Permanent; see text 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell makes certain other spells per- 
manent. Depending on the spell, you 
must be of a minimum caster level and 
must expend a number of XP. 

You can make the following spells per- 
manent in regard to yourself. 


Minimum 
Spell Caster Level XP Cost 
Arcane sight 11th 1,500 XP 
Comprehend languages 9th 500 XP 
Darkvision 10th 1,000 XP 
Detect magic 9th 500 XP 
Read magic 9th 500 XP, 
See invisibility 10th 1,000 XP 
Tongues 11th 1,500 XP | 


[You cast the desired spell and then follow 


Lit with the permanency spell. You cannot 

| cast these spells on other creatures. This 
application of permanency can be dispelled 
only by a caster of higher level than you 
were when you cast the spell. 

In addition to personal use, permanency 
can be used to make the following spells 
permanent on yourself, another creature, 
or an object (as appropriate). 


Minimum | 
Spell Caster Level XP Cost) 
Enlarge person 9th 500 XP | 
Magic fang 9th 500 XP! 
Magic fang, greater 11th 1,500 XP | 
Rary’s telepathic bond’ 13th 2,500 XP. 
Reduce person 9th 500 XP 
Resistance 9th 500 XP 


1 Only bonds two creatures per casting of 
permanency. 


Additionally, the following spells can be 
cast upon objects or areas only and ren- 
dered permanent. 


Minimum ee | 
Spell Caster Level XP Cost 
Alarm 9th 500 XP 
Animate objects 14th 3,000 XP 
_ Dancing lights 9th 500 XP 
| Ghost sound 9th 500 XP 
_ Gust of wind 11th 1,500 XP 
| Invisibility 10th 1,000 XP 
| Magic mouth 10th 1,000 XP 
| Mordenkainen’s private 13th 2,500 XP 
sanctum 
Phase door 15th 3,500 XP 
Prismatic sphere 17th 4,500 XP 
Prismatic wall 16th 4,000 XP 
Shrink item 11th 1,500 XP 
Solid fog 12th 2,000 XP 
Stinking cloud 11th 1,500 XP 
| Symbol of death 16th 4,000 XP 
| Symbol of fear 14th 3,000 XP 
| Symbol of insanity 16th 4,000 XP 
| Symbol of pain 13th 2,500 XP 
Symbol of persuasion 14th 3,000 XP 
Symbol of sleep 16th 4,000 XP. 
Symbol of stunning 15th 3,500 XP 
Symbol of weakness 15th 3,500 XP 
Teleportation circle 17th 4,500 XP 
Wall of fire 12th 2,000 XP 
Wall of force 13th 2,500 XP 
Web 10th 1,000 XP 


Spells cast on other creatures, objects, or 
locations (not on you) are vulnerable to 
dispel magic as normal. 

The DM may allow other selected 
spells to be made permanent. Research- 
ing this possible application of a spell 
costs as much time and money as inde- 
pendently researching the selected spell 
(see the Dungeon Masters Guide for 
details). If the DM has already deter- 
mined that the application is not possible, 
‘the research automatically fails. Note that 
‘you never learn what is possible except by 
the success or failure of your research. 

XP Cost: See tables above. 


Permanent Image 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Effect: Figment that cannot extend 
beyond a 20-ft. cube + one 10-ft. 
cube/level (S) 

‘Duration: Permanent (D) 


‘This spell functions like silent image, ex- 


cept that the figment includes visual, 
‘auditory, olfactory, and thermal elements, 
and the spell is permanent. By concentrat- 
ing, you can move the image within the 


limits of the range, but it is static while 


you are not concentrating. 


Material Component: A bit of fleece plus 


powdered jade worth 100 gp. 


Persistent Image 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


This spell functions like silent image, except 


that the figment includes visual, auditory, 


olfactory, and thermal components, and 
the figment follows a script determined by 
you. The figment follows that script with- 
out your having to concentrate on it. The 
illusion can include intelligible speech if 
you wish. For instance, you could create 
the illusion of several orcs playing cards 
and arguing, culminating in a fistfight. 

Material Component: A bit of fleece and 
several grains of sand. 


Phantasmal Killer 


Illusion (Phantasm) [Fear, Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target: One living creature 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with), then Fortitude partial; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You create a phantasmal image of the 
most fearsome creature imaginable to the 
subject simply by forming the fears of the 
subjects subconscious mind into some- 
thing that its conscious mind can visual- 
ize: this most horrible beast. Only the 
spell’s subject can see the phantasmal kill- 
er. You see only a vague shape. The target | 
first gets a Will save to recognize the | 
image as unreal. If that save fails, the | 
phantasm touches the subject, and the 
subject must succeed on a Fortitude save 
or die from fear. Even if the Fortitude save 
is successful, the subject takes 3d6 points 
of damage. 

If the subject of a phantasmal killer 
attack succeeds in disbelieving and is 
wearing a helm of telepathy, the beast can be 
turned upon you. You must then dis- 
believe it or become subject to its deadly 
fear attack. 


Phantom Steed 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: One quasi-real, horselike creature 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You conjure a Large, quasi-real, horselike 
creature. The steed can be ridden only by 
you or by the one person for whom you 
specifically created the mount. A phan- 
tom steed has a black head and body, gray 
mane and tail, and smoke-colored, insub- 
stantial hooves that make no sound. It has 
what seems to be a saddle, bit, and bridle. 
It does not fight, but animals shun it and 
refuse to attack it. 

The mount has an AC of 18 (-1 size, +4 
natural armor, +5 Dex) and 7 hit points +1 
hit point per caster level. If it loses all its 
hit points, the phantom steed disappears. 
A phantom steed has a speed of 20 feet per 
caster level, to a maximum of 240 feet. It. 
can bear its rider’s weight plus up to 10. 
pounds per caster level. | 

These mounts gain certain powers ac- 
cording to caster level. A mount’s abilities 
include those of mounts of lower caster 
levels. Thus, a mount created by a 12th- 
level caster has the 8th, 10th, and 12th 
caster level abilities. 

8th Level: The mount can ride over 
sandy, muddy, or even swampy ground 
without difficulty or decrease in speed. 

10th Level: The mount can use water 
walk at will (as the spell, no action re- 
quired to activate this ability). 

12th Level: The mount can use air walk 
at will (as the spell, no action required to 
activate this ability) for up to 1 round at a 
time, after which it falls to the ground. 


14th Level: The mount can fly at its 
speed (average maneuverability). 


Phase Door 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 8 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. | 
| Effect: Ethereal 5 ft. by 8 ft. opening, 10 | 
ft. deep + 5 ft. deep/three levels 
| Duration: One usage/two levels 
| Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell creates an ethereal passage 
through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, 
but not other materials. The phase door is 
invisible and inaccessible to all creatures 
except you, and only you can use the pas- 
sage. You disappear when you enter the 
phase door and appear when you exit. If 


you desire, you can take one other crea-_ 


ture (Medium or smaller) through the 
door. This counts as two uses of the door, 
The door does not allow light, sound, or 
spell effects through it, nor can you see 
spell can provide an escape route, though 
certain creatures, such as phase spiders, 
can follow with ease. A gem of true seeing or 
similar magic reveals the presence of a 
phase door but does not allow its use. 

A phase door is subject to dispel magic. If 


anyone is within the passage when it is_ 


dispelled, he is harmlessly ejected just as 
if he were inside a passwall effect. 
You can allow other creatures to use the 
phase door by setting some triggering con- 
dition for the door. Such conditions can 
_be as simple or elaborate as you desire. 
| They can be based on a creature’s name, 
\identity, or alignment, but otherwise 
| must be based on observable actions or 
| qualities. Intangibles such as level, class, 

Hit Dice, and hit points don't qualify. 

Phase door can be made permanent with 
a permanency spell. 


Planar Ally 
Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar ally] 
Level: Clr 6 
| Effect: One or two called elementals or 
|__ outsiders, totaling no more than 12 
HD, which cannot be more than 30 ft. 
|__ apart when they appear 
This spell functions like lesser planar ally, 
except you may call a single creature of 12 
HD or less, or two creatures of the same 
kind whose Hit Dice total no more than 
12. The creatures agree to help you and 
request your return payment together. 
XP Cost: 250 XP. 


Planar Ally, Greater 


Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar ally] 

Level: Clr 8 

Effect: Up to three called elementals or 
outsiders, totaling no more than 18 
HD, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart when they appear. 


‘This spell functions like lesser planar ally, 
except that you may call a single creature 
‘of 18 HD or less, or up to three creatures 
of the same kind whose Hit Dice total no 
more than 18. The creatures agree to help 
you and request your return payment 
together. 
XP Cost: 500 XP. 


Planar Ally, Lesser 


Conjuration (Calling) [see text] 
Level: Clr 4 
Components: V, S, DF, XP 
\Casting Time: 10 minutes 
‘Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One called elemental or outsider 
of 6 HD or less 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


By casting this spell, you request your, 
deity to send you an elemental or outsider. 
(of 6 HD or less) of the deity’s choice. If 
you serve no particular deity, the spell is a 


general plea answered by a creature shar- 


ing your philosophical alignment. If you 
know an individual creature’s name, you 
may request that individual by speaking 
the name during the spell (though you 
might get a different creature anyway). 

You may ask the creature to perform 
one task in exchange for a payment from 
you. Tasks might range from the simple) 
(fly us across the chasm, help us fight a 
battle) to the complex (spy on our en- 
emies, protect us on our foray into the 
dungeon). You must be able to communi- 
cate with the creature called in order to 
bargain for its services. 

The creature called requires a payment 
for its services. This payment can take a 
variety of forms, from donating gold or 
magic items to an allied temple, to a gift 
given directly to the creature, to some 
other action on your part that matches the 
creature’s alignment and goals. Re- 
gardless, this payment must be made be- 
fore the creature agrees to perform any 
services. The bargaining takes at least 1 
round, so any actions by the creature be- 
gin in the round after it arrives. 

A task taking up to 1 minute per caster 
level requires a payment of 100 gp per HD 
of the creature called. For a task taking up 
to 1 hour per caster level, the creature 
requires a payment of 500 gp per HD. A 
long-term task, one requiring up to one 


day per caster level, requires a payment of 
1,000 gp per HD. 

A nonhazardous task requires only half 
the indicated payment, while an especially 
hazardous task might require a greater 
gift. Few if any creatures will accept a task 
that seems suicidal (remember, a called 
creature actually dies when it is killed, 
unlike a summoned creature). However, if | 
the task is strongly aligned with the crea-| 
ture’s ethos, the DM may halve or even 
waive the payment. For instance, a celes- 
tial creature called to battle demons might 
require a gift of only half the normal value. 

At the end of its task, or when the dura- 
tion bargained for expires, the creature 
returns to its home plane (after reporting 
back to you, if appropriate and possible). 

Note: When you use a calling spell that 
calls an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, 
lawful, or water creature, it is a spell of 
that type. For example, lesser planar ally is a 
fire spell when it calls a fire elemental. 

XP Cost: 100 XP. 


Planar Binding 


Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar binding] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S 

Targets: Up to three elementals or 
outsiders, totaling no more than 12 
HD, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart when they appear 


This spell functions like lesser planar bind- 
ing, except that you may call a single crea- 
ture of 12 HD or less, or up to three crea- 
tures of the same kind whose Hit Dice 
total no more than 12. Each creature gets 
a save, makes an independent attempt to 
escape, and must be individually per- 
suaded to aid you. 


Planar Binding, Greater 


Conjuration (Calling) [see text for lesser 
planar binding] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S 

‘Targets: Up to three elementals or out- 
siders, totaling no more than 18 HD, 
no two of which can be more than 30 
ft. apart when they appear. 


This spell functions like lesser planar bind- 
ing, except that you may call a single crea- 
ture of 18 HD or less, or up to three crea- 
tures of the same kind whose Hit Dice 
total no more than 18. Each creature gets 
a saving throw, makes independent at- 
tempts to escape, and must be persuaded 
to aid you individually. 


Planar Binding, Lesser 


Conjuration (Calling) [see text] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S 


262 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); 
see text 

Target: One elemental or outsider with 6 
HD or less 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: No and Yes; see text 


Casting this spell attempts a dangerous 


‘act: to lure a creature from another plane 
[to a specifically prepared trap, which 
[must lie within the spell’s range. The 
‘called creature is held in the trap until it 
agrees to perform one service in return 
for its freedom. 

To create the trap, you must use a magic 
circle spell, focused inward. The kind of 
creature to be bound must be known and 
stated. If you wish to call a specific indi- 
vidual, you must use that individual’s 
proper name in casting the spell. | 

The target creature is allowed a Will 
saving throw. If the saving throw suc- 
ceeds, the creature resists the spell. If the 
saving throw fails, the creature is immedi- 
ately drawn to the trap (spell resistance 
does not keep it from being called). The 
creature can escape from the trap with by 
successfully pitting its spell resistance 
against your caster level check, by dimen- 
sional travel, or with a successful Cha- 
risma check (DC 15 + 1/2 your caster level 
+ your Cha modifier). It can try each 


method once per day. If it breaks loose, it_ 


can flee or attack you. A dimensional 
anchor cast on the creature prevents its 
escape via dimensional travel. You can 
also employ a calling diagram (see magic 
circle against evil, page 249) to make the 


| trap more secure. 


If the creature does not break free of 
‘the trap, you can keep it bound for as long 


[as you dare. You can attempt to compel 
| the creature to perform a service by de- 


| scribing the service and perhaps offering 
some sort of reward. You make a Cha- 
risma check opposed by the creature's 
Charisma check. The DM assigns your 
check a bonus of +0 to +6 based on the 
nature of the service and the reward. If 
the creature wins the opposed check, it 
refuses service. New offers, bribes, and 


| the like can be made or the old ones reof- 
| fered every 24 hours. This process can be 
| repeated until the creature promises to 
| serve, until it breaks free, or until you de- 


cide to get rid of it by means of some 
other spell. Impossible demands or un- 
reasonable commands are never agreed 
to. If you roll a 1 on the Charisma check, 
the creature breaks free of the binding 
and can escape or attack you. 

Once the requested service is com- 
pleted, the creature need only so inform 
you to be instantly sent back whence it 
came. The creature might later seek re- 


venge. If you assign some open-ended 
task that the creature cannot complete 
though its own actions (such as “Wait 
here” or “Defend this area against attack”), 
the spell remains in effect for a maximum 
of one day per caster level, and the crea- 
ture gains an immediate chance to break 
free. Note that a clever recipient can sub- 
vert some instructions. 

When you use a calling spell to call an 
air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, good, lawful, 
or water creature, it is a spell of that type. 
‘For example, lesser planar binding is a water 
spell when you cast it to call a water ele- 
mental. 


Plane Shift 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Range: Touch 


\Target or Targets: Creature touched, or 
l 


up to eight willing creatures joining 


hands 


Duration: Instantaneous 


Saving Throw: Will negates 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


You move yourself or some other creature 


to another plane of existence or alternate) 
dimension. If several willing persons link. 
hands in a circle, as many as eight can be 


affected by the plane shift at the same time. 


\Precise accuracy as to a particular arrival 


‘location on the intended plane is nigh 


impossible. From the Material Plane, you 


can reach any other plane, though you 
appear 5 to 500 miles (5d%) from your 
intended destination. 

Note: Plane shift transports creatures in- 
stantaneously and then ends. The crea- 


tures need to find other means if they are, 


to travel back. 

Focus: A small, forked metal rod. The 
size and metal type dictates to which 
plane of existence or alternate dimension 
the spell sends the affected creatures. 
Forked rods keyed to certain planes or 
dimensions may be difficult to come by, 
as decided by the DM. 


Plant Growth 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 3, Plant 3, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 

Target or Area: See text 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Plant growth has different effects depend- 
ing on the version chosen. 

Overgrowth: This effect causes normal 
vegetation (grasses, briars, bushes, creepers, 


Poison 


thistles, trees, vines) within long range (400 
feet + 40 feet per caster level) to become 
thick and overgrown. The plants entwine to 
form a thicket or jungle that creatures must 
hack or force a way through. Speed drops to 
5 feet, or 10 feet for Large or larger crea- 
tures. (The DM may allow faster movement 
for very small or very large creatures.) The | 
area must have brush and trees in it for this | 
spell to take effect. | 

At your option, the area can be a 100- 
foot-radius circle, a 150-foot-radius semi- 
circle, or a 200-foot-radius quarter circle. 
You may designate places within the area 
that are not affected. 

Enrichment: This effect targets plants 
within a range of one-half mile, raising 
their potential productivity over the 
course of the next year to one-third above 
normal. 

In many farming communities, clerics 
or druids cast this spell at planting time as 
part of the spring festivals. 

Plant growth counters diminish plants. 

This spell has no effect on plant crea- 
tures. 


Necromancy 

Level: Clr 4, Drd 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous; see text 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates; see 
text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Calling upon the venomous powers of nat- 
ural predators, you infect the subject with a 
horrible poison by making a successful 
melee touch attack. The poison deals 1d10 
points of temporary Constitution damage 
immediately and another 1d10 points of 
temporary Constitution damage 1 minute 
later. Each instance of damage can be 
negated by a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 
your caster level + your Wis modifier). | 


Polar Ray 


Evocation [Cold] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A blue-white ray of freezing air and ice 
springs from your hand. You must suc- 
ceed on a ranged touch attack with the ray 
to deal damage to a target. The ray deals 
1d6 points of cold damage per caster level 
(maximum 25d6). 


Focus: A small, white ceramic cone or 
prism. 


Polymorph 

Transmutation (Polymorph) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch | 
| Target: Willing living creature touched _| 
| Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

| Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


This spell functions like alter self, except 
that you change the willing subject into 
another form of living creature. The new 
form may be of the same type as the sub- 
ject or any of the following types: aber- 
ration, animal, dragon, fey, giant, human- 
oid, magical beast, monstrous humanoid, 
ooze, plant, or vermin. The assumed form 
cant have more Hit Dice than your caster 
level (or the subject's HD, whichever is 
lower), to a maximum of 15 HD at 15th 
level. You can't cause a subject to assume a 
form smaller than Fine, nor can you cause 
a subject to assume an incorporeal or gas- 
eous form. The subject’s creature type and 
subtype (if any) change to match the new 
form (see the Monster Manual for more 
information). 

Upon changing, the subject regains 
lost hit points as if it had rested for a night 
(though this healing does not restore tem- 
porary ability damage and provide other 
benefits of resting; and changing back 
does not heal the subject further). If slain, 
the subject reverts to its original form, 
though it remains dead. 

The subject gains the Strength, Dex- 

| terity, and Constitution scores of the new 
(form but retains its own Intelligence, 
| Wisdom, and Charisma scores. It also 
[gains all extraordinary special attacks 
possessed by the form (such as constrict, 
improved grab, and poison) but does not 
gain the extraordinary special qualities 
possessed by the new form (such as 
blindsense, fast healing, regeneration, 
and scent) or any supernatural or spell- 
like abilities. 

Incorporeal or gaseous creatures are 
immune to being polymorphed, and a crea- 
ture with the shapechanger subtype 
| (such as a lycanthrope or a doppelganger) 
(can revert to its natural form as a stan- 

dard action. 

Material Component: An empty cocoon. 


Polymorph Any Object 
Transmutation (Polymorph) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Trickery 8 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Target: One creature, or one nonmagical 
object of up to 100 cu. ft./level 

Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
(object); see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This spell functions like polymorph, except 
that it changes one object or creature into 
‘another. The duration of the spell depends 
on how radical a change is made from the 
original state to its enchanted state. The 
DM determines the duration by using the 
following guidelines. 


Increase to 
Changed Subject Is: Duration Factor’ 
Same kingdom (animal, +5 
vegetable, mineral) 
Same class (mammals, +2 
_ fungi, metals, etc.) 
Same size +2 
{Related (twig is to tree, +2 
wolf fur is to wolf, etc.) 
Same or lower Intelligence +2 


|1 Add all that apply. Look up the total on the 
next table. 


Duration 
Factor Duration Example 
0 20 minutes Pebble to human 


2 1 hour Marionette to human 

4 3 hours Human to marionette | 

5 12 hours Lizard to manticore 
6 2 days Sheep to wool coat 

7 1 week Shrew to manticore 


9+ Permanent Manticore to shrew 


Unlike polymorph, polymorph any object 
does grant the creature the Intelligence 
score of its new form. If the original form 
didn't have a Wisdom or Charisma score, 


it gains those scores as appropriate for the) 


new form. 

Damage taken by the new form can 
result in the injury or death of the poly- 
morphed creature. For example, it is pos- 
sible to polymorph a creature into rock 
and then grind it to dust, causing damage, 
perhaps even death. If the creature was 
changed to dust to start with, more cre- 
ative methods to damage it would be 
needed. Perhaps you could use a gust of 
wind spell to scatter the dust far and wide. 
In general, damage occurs when the new 
form is changed through physical force, 
although the DM must adjudicate many 
of these situations. 

A nonmagical object cannot be made 
into a magic item with this spell. Magic 
items aren't affected by this spell. 

This spell cannot create material of 
great intrinsic value, such as copper, sil- 
ver, gems, silk, gold, platinum, mithral, or 
adamantine. It also cannot reproduce the 
special properties of cold iron in order to 


overcome the damage reduction of cer- 
tain creatures. 

This spell can also be used to duplicate 
the effects of baleful polymorph, polymorph, 
flesh to stone, stone to flesh, transmute metal to 
wood, transmute mud to rock, or transmute 
rock to mud. 

Arcane Material Component: Mercury, 
gum arabic, and smoke. 


Power Word Blind 

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7, War 7 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature with 200 hp or less 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You utter a single word of power that 
causes one creature of your choice to 
become blinded, whether the creature 
can hear the word or not. The duration of 
the spell depends on the target’s current 
hit point total. Any creature that currently 
has 201 or more hit points is unaffected 
by power word blind. 


| Hit Points Duration 
50 or less Permanent 
51-100 1d4+1 minutes 
101-200 1d4+1 rounds 


Power Word Kill 

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Death, 
Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9, War 9 

Components: V 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One living creature with 100 hp 
or less 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You utter a single word of power that, 
instantly kills one creature of your choice, | 
whether the creature can hear the word or 
not. Any creature that currently has 101 


or more hit points is unaffected by power 
word kill. 


Power Word Stun 

Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8, War 8 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature with 150 hp or less 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You utter a single word of power that in- 
stantly causes one creature of your choice 
to become stunned, whether the creature 
can hear the word or not. The duration of 
the spell depends on the target’s current 
hit point total. Any creature that currently 
has 151 or more hit points is unaffected 
by power word stun. 


_ Hit Points Duration 
| 50 or less 4d4 rounds 
51-100 2d4 rounds 
101-150 1d4 rounds 
Prayer 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 


Level: Clr 3, Pal 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 40 ft. 

Area: All allies and foes within a 40-ft- 
radius burst centered on you 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You bring special favor upon yourself and 
your allies while bringing disfavor to your 
enemies. You and your each of your allies 
gain a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, 
weapon damage rolls, saves, and skill 
checks, while each of your foes takes a —1 
penalty on such rolls. 


Prestidigitation 

Universal 

Level: Brd 0, Sor/Wiz 0 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: 10 ft. 

| Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
| Duration: 1 hour 

| Saving Throw: See text 

| Spell Resistance: No 


Prestidigitations are minor tricks that 
novice spellcasters use for practice. Once 
cast, a prestidigitation spell enables you to 
perform simple magical effects for 1 hour. 
The effects are minor and have severe lim- 
itations. A prestidigitation can slowly lift 
1 pound of material. It can color, clean, or 
(soil items in a 1-foot cube each round. It 
| can chill, warm, or flavor 1 pound of non- 
| living material. It cannot deal damage or 
\affect the concentration of spellcasters. 
Prestidigitation can create small objects, 
but they look crude and artificial. The 
materials created by a prestidigitation spell 
are extremely fragile, and they cannot be 
used as tools, weapons, or spell compo- 
nents. Finally, a prestidigitation lacks the 
power to duplicate any other spell effects. 
Any actual change to an object (beyond 
just moving, cleaning, or soiling it) per- 
sists only 1 hour. 


Characters typically use prestidigitation 
spells to impress common folk, amuse 
children, and brighten dreary lives. Com- 
mon tricks with prestidigitations include 
producing tinklings of ethereal music, 
brightening faded flowers, creating glow- 
ing balls that float over your hand, gener- 
ating puffs of wind to flicker candles, 
spicing up aromas and flavors of bland 
food, and making little whirlwinds to 
sweep dust under rugs. 


Prismatic Sphere 


Abjuration 

Level: Protection 9, Sor/Wiz 9, Sun 9 

Components: V 

Range: 10 ft. 

Effect: 10-ft.-radius sphere centered on 
you 


This spell functions like prismatic wall, ex- 
\cept you conjure up an immobile, opaque 
\globe of shimmering, multicolored light 
\that surrounds you and protects you from 


lall forms of attack. The sphere flashes in 


lall colors of the visible spectrum. 
| The sphere’s blindness effect on crea- 
‘tures with less than 8 HD lasts 2d4x10 
minutes. 

You can pass into and out of the pris- 


matic sphere and remain near it without 
harm. However, when you're inside it, the. 
sphere blocks any attempt to project, 


something through the sphere (including 


\spells). Other creatures that attempt to. 


‘attack you or pass through suffer the 
effects of each color, one at a time. 

Typically, only the upper hemisphere 
of the globe will exist, since you are at the 
center of the sphere, so the lower half is 
usually excluded by the floor surface you 
are standing on. 


The colors of the sphere have the same, 


effects as the colors of a prismatic wall. 
Prismatic sphere can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Prismatic Spray 


Evocation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell causes seven shimmering, in- 
tertwined, multicolored beams of light to 
spray from your hand. Each beam has a 
different power. Creatures in the area of 
the spell with 8 HD or less are automati- 
cally blinded for 2d4 rounds. Every crea- 
ture in the area is randomly struck by one 
or more beams, which have additional 
effects. 


Color 
1d8 of Beam Effect 
1 Red 20 points fire damage 


(Reflex half) 
2 Orange 40 points acid damage 
(Reflex half) 


3 Yellow 80 points electricity damage 
(Reflex half) 

4 Green Poison (Kills; Fortitude 
partial, take 1d6 points of 
Con damage instead) 

5 Blue Turned to stone (Fortitude 
negates) 

6 Indigo Insane, as insanity spell (Will 
negates) 

7 Violet Sent to another plane (Will 
negates) 

8 Struck by two rays; roll twice 


more, ignoring any “8” results. 


Prismatic Wall 


Abjuration 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Wall 4 ft./level wide, 2 ft./level 
__ high 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: See text 


Prismatic wall creates a vertical, opaque 
wall—a shimmering, multicolored plane 
of light that protects you from all forms of 
attack. The wall flashes with seven colors, 
each of which has a distinct power and 
purpose. The wall is immobile, and you 
can pass through and remain near the wall 
without harm. However, any other crea- 
ture with less than 8 HD that is within 20 
feet of the wall is blinded for 2d4 rounds 
by the colors if it looks at the wall. 

The wall’s maximum proportions are 4 
feet wide per caster level and 2 feet high 
per caster level. A prismatic wall spell cast 
to materialize in a space occupied by a 
creature is disrupted, and the spell is 
wasted. | 
|_Each color in the wall has a special | 
effect. The accompanying table shows the | 
seven colors of the wall, the order in 
which they appear, their effects on crea- 
tures trying to attack you or pass through 
the wall, and the magic needed to negate 
each color. 

The wall can be destroyed, color by 
color, in consecutive order, by various 
magical effects; however, the first color 
must be brought down before the second 
can be affected, and so on. A rod of cancel- 
lation or a Mordenkainen’s disjunction spell 
destroys a prismatic wall, but an antimagic 
field fails to penetrate it. Dispel magic and 
greater dispel magic cannot dispel the wall 
or anything beyond it. Spell resistance is 
effective against a prismatic wall, but the 


SES ay 


PRISMATIC WALL 


Prismatic wall makes an effective barrier. 


a melee touch attack, dealing fire damage 
equal to 1dé +1 point per caster level 
(maximum +5). Alternatively, you can 
hurl the flames up to 120 feet as a thrown 
weapon. When doing so, you attack with a 
ranged touch attack (with no range 
penalty) and deal the same damage as 
with the melee attack. No sooner do you 
hurl the flames than a new set appears in 
your hand. Each attack you make reduces 
the remaining duration by 1 minute. If an 
attack reduces the remaining duration to 
0 minutes or less, the spell ends after the 
attack resolves. 

This spell does not function under- 
water. 


Programmed Image 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Effect: Visual figment that cannot 
extend beyond a 20-ft. cube + one 
10-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: Permanent until triggered, 
then 1 round/level 


This spell functions like silent image, ex- 
cept that this spell’s figment activates 
when a specific condition occurs. The fig- 
ment includes visual, auditory, olfactory, 
and thermal elements, including intelligi- 
ble speech. 

You set the triggering condition 
(which may be a special word) when cast- 
ing the spell. The event that triggers the 
illusion can be as general or as specific 


N 
S 
5 

© 
S 
S 
RS 
NY 


Color Order Effect of Color Negated By and detailed as desired but must be based 
Red Ist Stops nonmagical ranged weapons. Cone of cold on an audible, tactile, olfactory, or visual 
Deals 20 points of fire damage (Reflex half). trigger. The trigger cannot be based on 
Orange 2nd Stops magical ranged weapons. Gust of wind some quality not normally obvious to the 
Deals 40 points of acid damage (Reflex half). senses, such as alignment. (See magic 
Yellow 3rd Stops poisons, gases, and petrification. Disintegrate mouth for more details about such trig- 
Deals 80 points of electricity damage (Reflex half). gers.) 
Green 4th — Stops breath weapons. Passwall Material Component: A bit of fleece and 
Poison (Kills; Fortitude partial for 1d6 points of Con damage instead). jade dust worth 25 gp. 
Blue 5th Stops divination and mental attacks. Magic missile 
Turned to stone (Fortitude negates). Project Image 
Indigo 6th Stops all spells. Daylight Illusion (Shadow) 
Will save or become insane (as insanity spell). Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 7 
Violet 7th Energy field destroys all objects and effects." Dispel magic Components: V, S, M 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: One shadow duplicate 


Creatures sent to another plane (Will negates). 
1 The violet effect makes the special effects of the other six colors redundant, but these six 
effects are included here because certain magic items can create prismatic effects one color at 


a time, and spell resistance might render some colors ineffective (see above). 


caster level check must be repeated for 
each color present. 
Prismatic wall can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Produce Flame 

Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Drd 1, Fire 2 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 0 ft. 


Effect: Flame in your palm 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Flames as bright as a torch appear in your 
open hand. The flames harm neither you 
nor your equipment. 

In addition to providing illumination, 
the flames can be hurled or used to touch 
enemies. You can strike an opponent with 


Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with) 

Spell Resistance: No 


You tap energy from the Plane of Shadow 
to create a quasi-real, illusory version of 
yourself. The projected image looks, 
sounds, and smells like you but is intan- 
gible. The projected image mimics your 
actions (including speech) unless you 
direct it to act differently (which is a 
move action). 


You can see through its eyes and hear 
through its ears as if you were standing 
where it is, and during your turn you can 
switch from using its senses to using your 
own, or back again, as a free action. While 
you are using its senses, your body is con- 
sidered blinded and deafened. | 

If you desire, any spell you cast whose 
range is touch or greater can originate 

| from the projected image instead of from 
| you. The projected image can't cast any, 
spells on itself except for illusion spells. 

|The spells affect other targets normally, 
despite originating from the projected 
image. 

Objects are affected by the projected 
image as if they had succeeded on their 
Will save. 

You must maintain line of effect to the 
projected image at all times. If your line of 
effect is obstructed, the spell ends. If you 
use dimension door, teleport, plane shift, or a 
similar spell that breaks your line of 
effect, even momentarily, the spell ends. 

Material Component: A small replica of 
you (a doll), which costs 5 gp to create. 


Protection from Arrows 
Abjuration 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 ; 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
discharged | 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) | 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The warded creature gains resistance to 
ranged weapons. The subject gains dam- 
lage reduction 10/magic against ranged 
| weapons. (This spell doesn't grant you the 
lability to damage creatures with similar 
| damage reduction.) Once the spell has 
| prevented a total of 10 points of damage 

per caster level (maximum 100 points), it 

is discharged. 
Focus: A piece of shell from a tortoise or 

a turtle. 


Protection from Chaos 
Abjuration [Lawful] : 
| Level: Clr 1, Law 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1 


| This spell functions like protection from 
(evil, except that the deflection and resist- 
ance bonuses apply to attacks from cha- 
otic creatures, and chaotic summoned. 
creatures cannot touch the subject. 


Protection from Energy 

Abjuration 

Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Luck 3, Protection 3, 
Rgr 2, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level or until 
discharged 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
less) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Protection from energy grants temporary 
‘immunity to the type of energy you spec- 
ify when you cast it (acid, cold, electricity, 
fire, or sonic). When the spell absorbs 12 
‘points per caster level of energy damage 

(to a maximum of 120 points at 10th 
level), it is discharged. 

Note: Protection from energy overlaps 
(and does not stack with) resist energy. If a 
character is warded by protection from en- 
ergy and resist energy, the protection spell ab- 
sorbs damage until its power is exhausted. 


Protection from Evil 


\Abjuration [Good] 

\Level: Clr 1, Good 1, Pal 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
|Components: V, S, M/DF 

[Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Touch 

‘Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No; see text 


This spell wards a creature from attacks by. 


evil creatures, from mental control, and 


from summoned creatures. It creates a. 


‘magical barrier around the subject at a 
distance of 1 foot. The barrier moves with 
the subject and has three major effects. 

First, the subject gains a +2 deflection 
bonus to AC and a +2 resistance bonus on 
saves. Both these bonuses apply against 
attacks made or effects created by evil 
creatures. 


Second, the barrier blocks any attempt 


to possess the warded creature (by a magic 
jar attack, for example) or to exercise 
mental control over the creature (includ- 
ing enchantment (charm) effects and 
enchantment (compulsion) effects that 
grant the caster ongoing control over the 
subject, such as dominate person). The pro- 
tection does not prevent such effects 
from targeting the protected creature, but 
it suppresses the effect for the duration of 
the protection from evil effect. If the protec- 
tion from evil effect ends before the effect 
granting mental control does, the would- 
be controller would then be able to men- 
tally command the controlled creature. 
Likewise, the barrier keeps out a possess- 
ing life force but does not expel one if it is 
in place before the spell is cast. This 
second effect works regardless of align- 
ment. 

Third, the spell prevents bodily contact 
by summoned creatures. This causes the 
natural weapon attacks of such creatures 


to fail and the creatures to recoil if such 
attacks require touching the warded crea- 
ture. Good summoned creatures are 
immune to this effect. The protection 
against contact by summoned creatures 
ends if the warded creature makes an 
attack against or tries to force the barrier 
against the blocked creature. Spell resist- | 
ance can allow a creature to overcome this | 
protection and touch the warded creature. | 

Arcane Material Component: A little pow- 
dered silver with which you trace a 3-foot- 
diameter circle on the floor (or ground) 
around the creature to be warded. 


Protection from Good 


Abjuration [Evil] 
Level: Clr 1, Evil 1, Sor/Wiz 1 


This spell functions like protection from 
evil, except that the deflection and resist- 
ance bonuses apply to attacks from good 
creatures, and good summoned creatures 
cannot touch the subject. 


Protection from Law 


Abjuration [Chaotic] 
Level: Chaos 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 


This spell functions like protection from 
evil, except that the deflection and resist- 
ance bonuses apply to attacks from lawful 
creatures, and lawful summoned crea- 
tures cannot touch the subject. 


Protection from Spells 


Abjuration 

Level: Magic 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

‘Targets: Up to one creature touched/ 
| four levels 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on 

saving throws against spells and spell-like | 
abilities (but not against supernatural and | 
extraordinary abilities). | 

Material Component: A diamond of at 
least 500 gp value, which must be crushed 
and sprinkled over the targets. 

Focus: One 1,000 gp diamond per crea- 
ture to be granted the protection. Each 
subject must carry one such gem for the 
duration of the spell. If a subject loses the 
gem, the spell ceases to affect him. 


Prying Eyes 


Divination 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: One mile 

Effect: Ten or more levitating eyes 


Duration: 1 hour/level (D); see text 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You create a number of semitangible, visi- 
ble magical orbs (called “eyes”) equal to 
1d4 + your caster level. These eyes move 
out, scout around, and return as you di- 
rect them when casting the spell. Each 
_eye can see 120 feet (normal vision only) 
lin all directions. i 
| While the individual eyes are quite 
| fragile, they're small and difficult to spot. 
Each eye is a Fine construct, about the 
size of a small apple, that has 1 hit point, 
AC 18 (+8 bonus for its size), flies at a 
speed of 30 feet with perfect maneuver- 
ability, and has a +16 Hide modifier. It has 
a Spot modifier equal to your caster level 
(maximum +15) and is subject to illu- 
sions, darkness, fog, and any other factors 
that would affect your ability to receive 


visual information about your surround-_ 


ings. An eye traveling through darkness 
must find its way by touch. 

When you create the eyes, you specify, 
instructions you want them to follow ina 
command of no more than twenty-five 
words. Any knowledge you possess is 
known by the eyes as well, so if you know, 
for example, what a typical merchant 
looks like, the eyes do as well. 

A sample command: “Surround me at a 
range of four hundred feet and return if 
you spot any dangerous creatures.” The 
phrase “Surround me” directs the eyes to 
form an equally spaced, horizontal ring at 
whatever range you indicate, and then 
move with you. As eyes return or are de- 
stroyed, the rest automatically space them- 

_selves to compensate. In the case of this 
| sample command, an eye returns only if it 
| spots a creature you would regard as dan- 
| gerous. A “peasant” that is actually a 
| shapechanged dragon wouldn't trigger an 
eye's return. Ten eyes can form a ring with 
a radius of 400 feet and between them- 
selves see everything that crosses the ring. 

Another sample command: “Spread out 
and search the town for Arweth. Follow 
him for three minutes, staying out of 
sight, and then return.” The phrase 
“Spread out” directs the eyes to move away 

from you in all directions. In this case, 

l each eye would separately follow Arweth 

| for three minutes once it spots him. 

| Other commands that might be useful 
include having the eyes form a line in a 
certain manner, making them move at 
random within a certain range, or having 
them follow a certain type of creature. 
The DM is the final judge of the suitabil- 
ity of your directions. 

In order to report their findings, the 
eyes must return to your hand. Each re- 
plays in your mind all it has seen during 
its existence. It takes an eye 1 round to 


replay 1 hour of recorded images. After 
relaying its findings, an eye disappears. 

If an eye ever gets more than 1 mile 
away from you, it instantly ceases to exist. 
However, your link with the eye is such 
that you won't know if the eye was de- 
stroyed because it wandered out of range 
or because of some other event. 

The eyes exist for up to 1 hour per cast- 
‘er level or until they return to you. Dispel 
magic can destroy eyes. Roll separately for 
‘each eye caught in an area dispel. Of 
course, if an eye is sent into darkness, it 
could hit a wall or similar obstacle and 
destroy itself. 

Material Component: A handful of crys- 
tal marbles. 


Prying Eyes, Greater 


Divination 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 


(This spell functions like prying eyes, except 
‘that the eyes can see all things as they 
lactually are, just as if they had true seeing 
[with a range of 120 feet. Thus, they can 
navigate darkened areas at full normal 
‘speed. Also, a greater prying eye's maximum 
Spot modifier is +25 instead of +15. 


Purify Food and Drink 


Transmutation 

Level: Clr 0, Drd 0 

Components: V, S 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 10 ft. 

Target: 1 cu. ft./level of contaminated 
food and water 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


This spell makes spoiled, rotten, poison- 


ous, or otherwise contaminated food and 
water pure and suitable for eating and 
drinking. This spell does not prevent sub- 
sequent natural decay or spoilage. Unholy 
water and similar food and drink of sig- 
nificance is spoiled by purify food and 
drink, but the spell has no effect on crea- 
tures of any type nor upon magic potions. 

Note: Water weighs about 8 pounds per 
gallon. One cubic foot of water contains 
roughly 8 gallons and weighs about 60 
pounds. 


Pyrotechnics 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Target: One fire source, up to a 20-ft. 
cube 

Duration: 1d4+1 rounds, or 1d4+1 
rounds after creatures leave the smoke 
cloud; see text 


Saving Throw: Will negates or Fortitude 
negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes or No; see text 


Pyrotechnics turns a fire into either a burst 
of blinding fireworks or a thick cloud of 
choking smoke, depending on the ver- 
sion you choose. } 

Fireworks: The fireworks are a flashing, | 
fiery, momentary burst of glowing, col-| 
ored aerial lights. This effect causes crea- 
tures within 120 feet of the fire source to 
become blinded for 1d4+1 rounds (Will 
negates). These creatures must have line 
of sight to the fire to be affected. Spell 
resistance can prevent blindness. 

Smoke Cloud: A writhing stream of 
smoke billows out from the source, form- 
ing a choking cloud. The cloud spreads 20 
feet in all directions and lasts for 1 round 
per caster level. All sight, even darkvision, 
is ineffective in or through the cloud. All 
within the cloud take —4 penalties to 
Strength and Dexterity (Fortitude negates). 
These effects last for 1d4+1 rounds after 
the cloud dissipates or after the creature 
leaves the area of the cloud. Spell resist- 
ance does not apply. 

Material Component: The spell uses one 
fire source, which is immediately extin- 
guished. A fire so large that it exceeds a 
20-foot cube is only partly extinguished. 
Magical fires are not extinguished, al- 
though a fire-based creature (such as a fire 
elemental) used as a source takes 1 point 
of damage per caster level. 


Quench 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target or Area: One fire-based magic 
item or one 20-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(object) 

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (object) 


Quench is often used to put out forest fires | 
and other conflagrations. It extinguishes 
all nonmagical fires in its area. The spell 
also dispels any fire spells in its area, 
though you must succeed on a dispel 
check (1d20 +1 per caster level, maximum 
+15) against each spell to dispel it. The DC 
to dispel such spells is 11 + the caster level 
of the fire spell. 

Each elemental (fire) creature within 
the area of a quench spell takes 1d6 points 
of damage per caster level (maximum 
15d6, no save allowed). 

Alternatively, you can target the spell 
ona single magic item that creates or con- 
trols flame, such as a wand of fireball or a 
flaming burst sword. The item loses all its 


268 


fire-based magical abilities for 1d4 hours 
unless it succeeds on a Will save. (Arti- 
facts are immune to this effect.) 


Rage 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One willing living creature/ 
three levels, no two of which may be 
more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: Concentration + 1 
round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Each affected creature gains a +2 morale 
bonus to Strength and Constitution, a +1 
morale bonus on Will saves, and a —2 
penalty to AC. The effect is otherwise! 
identical with a barbarian’s rage (see page 
25), except that the subjects aren't fa- 
tigued at the end of the rage. 


Rainbow Pattern 


Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz4 = < Žž 

Components: V (Brd only), S, M, F; see 
text 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 


Effect: Colorful lights with a 20-ft.- | 


radius spread | 
Duration: Concentration +1 round/ | 
level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


| A glowing, rainbow-hued pattern of in- 
| terweaving colors fascinates those within 
lof 24 Hit Dice of creatures. Creatures 
with the fewest HD are affected first. 
Among creatures with equal HD, those 
who are closest to the spell’s point of 
origin are affected first. An affected crea- 
ture that fails its saves is fascinated by the 
pattern. 
With a simple gesture (a free action), 
you can make the rainbow pattern move 
Lup to 30 feet per round (moving its effec- 
| tive point of origin). All fascinated crea- 
| tures follow the moving rainbow of light, 
| trying to get or remain within the effect. 
Fascinated creatures who are restrained 
and removed from the pattern still try to 
follow it. If the pattern leads its subjects 
into a dangerous area (through flame, off 
a cliff, or the like), each fascinated crea- 
ture gets a second save. If the view of the 
lights is completely blocked (by an 
obscuring mist spell, for instance), crea- 
tures who can't see them are no longer 
affected. 


The spell does not affect sightless crea- 
tures. 

Verbal Component: A wizard or sorcerer 
need not utter a sound to cast this spell, 
but a bard must sing, play music, or recite 
a rhyme as a verbal component. 

Material Component: A piece of phos- 
phor. 

Focus: A crystal prism. 


Raise Dead 


‘Conjuration (Healing) 

‘Level: Clr 5 

Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 1 minute 

Range: Touch 

Target: Dead creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


‘You restore life to a deceased creature. You 
\can raise a creature that has been dead for 
\no longer than one day per caster level. In 
addition, the subject’s soul must be free 
land willing to return (see Bringing Back 
the Dead, page 171). If the subject’s soul is 
‘not willing to return, the spell does not 
work; therefore, a subject that wants to 
return receives no saving throw. 


Coming back from the dead is an or- 
deal. The subject of the spell loses one. 
level (or 1 Hit Die) when it is raised, just! 


as if it had lost a level or a Hit Die to an 


‘energy-draining creature. If the subject is 


lst level, it loses 2 points of Constitution 
instead (if this would reduce its Con to 0 
or less, it can't be raised). This level/HD 
loss or Constitution loss cannot be 
repaired by any means. A character who 
died with spells prepared has a 50% 
chance of losing any given spell upon 


being raised, in addition to losing spells, 


for losing a level. A spellcasting creature 
that doesn't prepare spells (such as a sor- 
cerer) has a 50% chance of losing any 
given unused spell slot as if it had been 
used to cast a spell, in addition to losing 
spell slots for losing a level. 

A raised creature has a number of hit 
points equal to its current Hit Dice. Any 
ability scores damaged to 0 are raised to 1. 
Normal poison and normal disease are 
cured in the process of raising the subject, 
but magical diseases and curses are not 
undone. While the spell closes mortal 
wounds and repairs lethal damage of most 
kinds, the body of the creature to be 
raised must be whole. Otherwise, missing 
parts are still missing when the creature is 
brought back to life. None of the dead 
creature's equipment or possessions are 
affected in any way by this spell. 

A creature who has been turned into an 
undead creature or killed by a death effect 
can't be raised by this spell. Constructs, ele- 
mentals, outsiders, and undead creatures 


can't be raised. The spell cannot bring back 
a creature that has died of old age. 

Material Component: Diamonds worth a 
total of least 5,000 gp. 


Rary's Mnemonic Enhancer 


Transmutation 

Level: Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: Instantaneous 


Casting this spell allows you to prepare 
additional spells or retain spells recently 
cast. Pick one of these two versions when 
the spell is cast. 

Prepare: You prepare up to three addi- 
tional levels of spells (such as three 1st- 
level spells, a 2nd- and a 1st-level spell, or 
a 3rd-level spell). A cantrip counts as 1/2 
level for this purpose. You prepare and 
cast these spells normally. 

Retain: You retain any spell of 3rd level 
or lower that you had cast up to 1 round 
before you started casting the mnemonic 
enhancer. This restores the previously cast 
spell to your mind. 
| In either event, the spell or spells pre- 
pared or retained fade after 24 hours (if 
not cast). 
| Material Component: A piece of string, 
and ink consisting of squid secretion with 
black dragon's blood. 

Focus: An ivory plaque of at least 50 gp 
value. 


Rary’s Telepathic Bond 


Divination 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: You plus one willing creature/ 

three levels, no two of which can be 
more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You forge a telepathic bond among your- 
self and a number of willing creatures, 
each of which must have an Intelligence 
score of 3 or higher. Each creature in- 
cluded in the link is linked to all the 
others. The creatures can communicate 
telepathically through the bond regard- 
less of language. No special power or in- 
fluence is established as a result of the 
bond. Once the bond is formed, it works 
over any distance (although not from one 
plane to another). 

If desired, you may leave yourself out 
of the telepathic bond forged. This deci- 
sion must be made at the time of casting. 


Rary’s telepathic bond can be made per- 
manent with a permanency spell, though it 
only bonds two creatures per casting of 
permanency. 

Material Component: Pieces of eggshell 
from two different kinds of creatures. 


Ray of Enfeeblement 
Necromancy 
| Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
_Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A coruscating ray springs from your 
hand. You must succeed on a ranged 
touch attack to strike a target. The subject 
takes a penalty to Strength equal to 1d6+1, 


per two caster levels (maximum 1d6+5),_ 


The subject’s Strength score cannot drop 
below 1. 


Ray of Exhaustion 

Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M nin, 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial; see text. 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A black ray projects from your pointing 

finger. You must succeed on a ranged 

touch attack with the ray to strike a target. 
_The subject is immediately exhausted for 
| the spell’s duration. A successful Fort- 
|itude save means the creature is only fa- 
| tigued. A character that is already fatigued 
instead becomes exhausted. 

This spell has no effect on a creature 
that is already exhausted. Unlike normal 
exhaustion or fatigue, the effect ends as 
soon as the spell’s duration expires. 

Material Component: A drop of sweat. 


t 


Ray of Frost 
Evocation [Cold] 
| Level: Sor/Wiz 0 
| Components: V, S -i 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Ray 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A ray of freezing air and ice projects from 
your pointing finger. You must succeed 
on a ranged touch attack with the ray to 
deal damage to a target. The ray deals 1d3 
points of cold damage. 


Read Magic 


Divination 

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, Rgr 1, 
Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 10 min./level 


By means of read magic, you can decipher 
magical inscriptions on objects—books, 
scrolls, weapons, and the like—that 
would otherwise be unintelligible. This 
deciphering does not normally invoke 
the magic contained in the writing, al- 
though it may do so in the case of a 
cursed scroll. Furthermore, once the 
spell is cast and you have read the magi- 
cal inscription, you are thereafter able to 
read that particular writing without 
‘recourse to the use of read magic. You can 
\read at the rate of one page (250 words) 
(per minute. The spell allows you to iden- 
itify a glyph of warding with a DC 13 Spell- 
[craft check, a greater glyph of warding with 
‘a DC 16 Spellcraft check, or any symbol 
ispell with a Spellcraft check (DC 10 + 
spell level). 

Read magic can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 


Focus: A clear crystal or mineral prism. 


Reduce Animal 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2, Rgr 3 

Components: V, S i 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One willing animal of Small, 
Medium, Large, or Huge size 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell functions like reduce person, ex- 
cept that it affects a single willing animal 
(not one with which you are engaged in 
combat, for instance). This decrease in 
size allows the animal to fit better into 
tight spaces, such as the typical dungeon 
room or subterranean passage. Reduce 
the damage dealt by the animal's natural 
attacks as shown on Table 2-3 in the Dun- 
geon Master's Guide. 


Reduce Person 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One humanoid creature 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell causes instant diminution of a 
humanoid creature, halving its height, 
length, and width and dividing its 
weight by 8. This decrease changes the 
creature’s size category to the next 
smaller one. The target gains a +2 size 
bonus to Dexterity, a —2 size penalty to 
Strength (to a minimum of 1), and a +1. 
bonus on attack rolls and AC due to its | 
reduced size. | 

A Small humanoid creature whose 
size decreases to Tiny has a space of 2-1/2 
feet and a natural reach of 0 feet (mean- 
ing that it must enter an opponent’s 
square to attack). A Large humanoid 
creature whose size decreases to 
Medium has a space of 5 feet and a natu- 
ral reach of 5 feet. This spell doesn’t 
change the target's speed. 

All equipment worn or carried by a 
creature is similarly reduced by the spell. 
Melee and projectile weapons deal less 
damage (see Table 2-3 in the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide). Other magical properties 
are not affected by this spell. Any reduced 
item that leaves the reduced creature's pos- 
session (including a projectile or thrown 
weapon) instantly returns to its normal 
size. This means that thrown weapons 
deal their normal damage (projectiles deal 
damage based on the size of the weapon 
that fired them). 

Multiple magical effects that reduce 
size do not stack, which means (among 
other things) that you can't use a second 
casting of this spell to further reduce the 
size of a humanoid that’s still under the 
effect of the first casting. 

Reduce person counters and dispels en- 
large person. 
|__Reduce person can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A pinch of pow- 
dered iron. 


Reduce Person, Mass 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Target: One humanoid creature/level, 
no two of which can be more than 
30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like reduce person, ex- 
cept that it affects multiple creatures. 


Refuge 
Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Object touched 
Duration: Permanent until discharged 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You create powerful magic in some spe- 
cially prepared object—a statuette, a jew- 
eled rod, a gem, or the like. This object 
contains the power to instantly transport 
its possessor across any distance within 
the same plane to your abode. Once the 
item is transmuted, you must give it will- 
ingly to a creature and at the same time 
inform it ofa command word to be spoken. 
| when the item is used. To make use of the 
‘item, the subject speaks the command. 
word at the same time that it rends or 
| breaks the item (a standard action). When 
this is done, the individual and all objects 
it is wearing and carrying (to a maximum 
of the character's heavy load) are instantly 
transported to your abode. No other crea- 
tures are affected (aside from a familiar 
that is touching the subject). 

You can alter the spell when casting it 
so that it transports you to within 10 feet 
of the possessor of the item when it is 
broken and the command word spoken’ 
You will have a general idea of the loca- 
tion and situation of the item possessor at 
the time the refuge spell is discharged, but, 
once you decide to alter the spell in this 
fashion, you have no choice whether or 
not to be transported. 

Material Component: The specially pre- 
pared object, whose construction requires 
gems worth 1,500 gp. 


Regenerate 
Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7, Drd 9, Healing 7 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 3 rounds 
Range: Touch 
Target: Living creature touched 
_ Duration: Instantaneous 
| Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
less) 


| Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


|The subject's severed body members (fin- 
gers, toes, hands, feet, arms, legs, tails, or 
even heads of multiheaded creatures), bro- 
ken bones, and ruined organs grow back. 
After the spell is cast, the physical regener- 
ation is complete in 1 round if the severed 
members are present and touching the 
creature. It takes 2d10 rounds otherwise. 
Regenerate also cures 4d8 points of dam- 
lage +1 point per caster level (maximum 
+35), rids the subject of exhaustion 
\and/or fatigue, and eliminates all non- 
lethal damage the subject has taken. It has 
no effect on nonliving creatures (includ- 
ing undead). 


Reincarnate 
Transmutation 

Level: Drd 4 
Components: V, S, M, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 


Target: Dead creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


With this spell, you bring back a dead 

creature in another body, provided that its 

death occurred no more than one week 

before the casting of the spell and the sub- 

ject’s soul is free and willing to return (see 
Bringing Back the Dead, page 171). If the 
subject's soul is not willing to return, the 
spell does not work; therefore, a subject 
that wants to return receives no saving 

throw. 

Since the dead creature is returning in 

a new body, all physical ills and afflictions 

are repaired. The condition of the remains 

is not a factor. So long as some small por- 

tion of the creature’s body still exists, it 

can be reincarnated, but the portion re- 
¡ceiving the spell must have been part of 
ithe creature's body at the time of death. 
{The magic of the spell creates an entirely 
[new young adult body for the soul to in- 
|habit from the natural elements at hand. 
‘This process takes 1 hour to complete. 
‘When the body is ready, the subject is 

reincarnated. 
A reincarnated creature recalls the 


majority of its former life and form. It re- 
tains any class abilities, feats, or skill, 
ranks it formerly possessed. Its class, base! 


attack bonus, base save bonuses, and hit 


‘points are unchanged. Strength, Dexter-, 


lity, and Constitution scores depend partly 
on the new body. First eliminate the sub- 
ject’s racial adjustments (since it is no 
longer of his previous race) and then 
apply the adjustments found below to the 
its remaining ability scores. The subject's 
level (or Hit Dice) is reduced by 1. If the 


subject was 1st level, its new Constitution. 


score is reduced by 2. (If this reduction 
would put its Con at 0 or lower, it can't be 
reincarnated). This level/HD loss or Con- 
stitution loss cannot be repaired by any 
means. 

It’s possible for the change in the sub- 
ject’s ability scores to make it difficult for 
it to pursue its previous character class. If 
this is the case, the subject is well advised 
to become a multiclass character. 

For a humanoid creature, the new in- 
carnation is determined using the follow- 
ing table. For nonhumanoid creatures, 
the DM should create a similar table of 
creatures of the same type or simply 
choose the new form. 

A creature that has been turned into an 
undead creature or killed by a death effect 
can't be returned to life by this spell. Con- 
structs, elementals, outsiders, and undead 
creatures can't be reincarnated. The spell 
cannot bring back a creature who has died 
of old age. 


d% Incarnation Str Dex Con 
01 Bugbear +4 42 42 
02-13 Dwarf +0 +0 42 
14-25 Elf +0 +2 -2 
26 Gnoll +4 +0 +2 
27-38 Gnome -2 +0 42 
39—42 Goblin -2 +2 +0 
43-52 Half-elf +0 +0 +0 
53—62 Half-orc +2 +0 +0 
63-74 Halfling =A aA aA 
75-89 Human +0 +0 +0 
90-93 Kobold 4 +2 2 
94 Lizardfolk +2 +0 +2 
95-98 Orc +4 +0 +0 
99 Troglodyte +0 -2 +4 
100 Other > X > 


(DM's choice) 


The reincarnated creature gains all abili- 
ties associated with its new form, includ- 
ing forms of movement and speeds, natu- 
ral armor, natural attacks, extraordinary 
abilities, and the like, but it doesn’t auto- 
matically speak the language of the new 
form. Refer to the Monster Manual for 
details. 

A wish or a miracle spell can restore a re- 
incarnated character to his or her original 
form. 
| Material Component: Rare oils and un- 
guents worth a total of least 1,000 gp, 
spread over the remains. 


Remove Blindness/Deafness 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Clr 3, Pal 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
| less) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Remove blindness/deafness cures blindness 
or deafness (your choice), whether the ef- 
fect is normal or magical in nature. The 
spell does not restore ears or eyes that. 
have been lost, but it repairs them if they | 
are damaged. | 

Remove blindness/deafness counters and 
dispels blindness/deafness. 


Remove Curse 


Abjuration 

Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Pal 3, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature or item touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Remove curse instantaneously removes all 
curses on an object or a creature. Remove 


curse does not remove the curse from a 
cursed shield, weapon, or suit of armor, 
although the spell typically enables the 
creature afflicted with any such cursed 
item to remove and get rid of it. Certain 
special curses may not be countered by 
this spell or may be countered only by a 
caster of a certain level or higher. | 
Remove curse counters and dispels be- 

| stow curse. 


Remove Disease 
| Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- 
less) = 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Remove disease cures all diseases that the 


subject is suffering from. The spell also kills 
parasites, including green slime and others. 
Certain special diseases may not be coun- 
tered by this spell or may be countered only 
by a caster of a certain level or higher. 

Note: Since the spell’s duration is in- 
stantaneous, it does not prevent reinfec- 
tion after a new exposure to the same dis- 
ease at a later date. 


Remove Fear 
Abjuration 
Level: Brd 1, Clr 4 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
_Targets: One creature plus one addi- 
tional creature/four levels, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
| Duration: 10 minutes; see text 
| Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


You instill courage in the subject, grant- 
ing it a +4 morale bonus against fear ef- 
fects for 10 minutes. If the subject is 
under the influence of a fear effect when 
receiving the spell, that effect is sup- 
pressed for the duration of the spell. 
Remove fear counters and dispels cause fear. 
Remove Paralysis 
| Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 2, Pal 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Targets: Up to four creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


You can free one or more creatures from 
the effects of any temporary paralysis or 
related magic, including a ghoul’s touch 
or a slow spell. If the spell is cast on one 
creature, the paralysis is negated. If cast 
on two creatures, each receives another 
save with a +4 resistance bonus against 
the effect that afflicts it. If cast on three or 
four creatures, each receives another save 
with a +2 resistance bonus. 

The spell does not restore ability scores 
reduced by penalties, damage, or drain. 


Repel Metal or Stone 


Abjuration [Earth] 

Level: Drd 8 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 

Area: 60-ft. line from you 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
\Saving Throw: None 

(Spell Resistance: No 


[Like repel wood, this spell creates waves of 


linvisible and intangible energy that roll 
forth from you. All metal or stone 
objects in the path of the spell are 
pushed away from you to the limit of the 
range. Fixed metal or stone objects larger 


than 3 inches in diameter and loose) 
objects weighing more than 500 pounds. 
are not affected. Anything else, includ- 


ing animated objects, small boulders, 


and creatures in metal armor, moves. 


back. Fixed objects 3 inches in diameter 
cor smaller bend or break, and the pieces 
move with the wave of energy. Objects 
affected by the spell are repelled at the 
rate of 40 feet per round. 

Objects such as metal armor, swords, 
and the like are pushed back, dragging 


their bearers with them. Even magic 


items with metal components are re- 
pelled, although an antimagic field blocks 
the effects. 

The waves of energy continue to sweep 
down the set path for the spell’s duration. 
After you cast the spell, the path is set, 
and you can then do other things or go 
elsewhere without affecting the spell’s 
power. 


Repel Vermin 


Abjuration 

Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Drd 4, Rgr 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 10 ft. 

Area: 10-ft-radius emanation centered 
on you 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An invisible barrier holds back vermin. A 
vermin with Hit Dice of less than one- 
third your level cannot penetrate the bar- 
rier. A vermin with Hit Dice of one-third 
your level or more can penetrate the bar- 
rier if it succeeds on a Will save. Even so, 
crossing the barrier deals the vermin 2d6 
points of damage, and pressing against | 
the barrier causes pain, which deters most | 
vermin. 


Repel Wood 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 6, Plant 6 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 60 ft. 

Area: 60-ft. line-shaped emanation from 
you 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Waves of energy roll forth from you, mov- 
ing in the direction that you determine, 
causing all wooden objects in the path of 
the spell to be pushed away from you to 
the limit of the range. Wooden objects 
larger than 3 inches in diameter that are 
fixed firmly are not affected, but loose 
objects are. Objects 3 inches in diameter 
or smaller that are fixed in place splinter 
and break, and the pieces move with the 
wave of energy. Objects affected by the 
spell are repelled at the rate of 40 feet per 
round. 

Objects such as wooden shields, spears, 
wooden weapon shafts and hafts, and 
arrows and bolts are pushed back, drag- 
ging those carrying them along. (A crea- 
ture being dragged by an item it is carry- 
ing can let go. A creature being dragged 
by a shield can loose it as a move action 
and drop it as a free action.) If a spear is 
planted (set) to prevent this forced move- 
ment, it splinters. Even magic items with 
wooden sections are repelled, although 
an antimagic field blocks the effects. 
| The waves of energy continue to sweep | 
down the set path for the spell’s duration. | 
After you cast the spell, the path is set, 
and you can then do other things or go 
elsewhere without affecting the spell’s 
power. 


Repulsion 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 7, Protection 7, Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, F/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Up to 10 ft./level 

Area: Up to 10-ft.-radius/level emanation 
centered on you 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An invisible, mobile field surrounds you 
and prevents creatures from approaching 
you. You decide how big the field is at the 
time of casting (to the limit your level al- 
lows). Any creature within or entering 
the field must attempt a save. If it fails, it 
becomes unable to move toward you for 
the duration of the spell. Repelled crea- 
tures’ actions are not otherwise re- 
stricted. They can fight other creatures 
‘and can cast spells and attack you with 
[ranged weapons. If you move closer to an 
l affected creature, nothing happens. (The 
creature is not forced back.) The creature 
is free to make melee attacks against you 
if you come within reach. If a repelled 
creature moves away from you and then 
tries to turn back toward you, it cannot 
move any closer if it is still within the 
spell’s area. 

Arcane Focus: A pair of small iron bars 
attached to two small canine statuettes, 
one black and one white, the whole array 
worth 50 gp. | 

Resist Energy 
Abjuration 
Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Fire 3, Pal 2, Rgr 1, 

Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, DF ae 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 10 min./level | 
Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm-_ 

less) | 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) — | 
This abjuration grants a creature limited 
protection from damage of whichever 

_one of five energy types you select: acid, 
| cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. The subject 
| gains energy resistance 10 against the 
energy type chosen, meaning that each 
[time the creature is subjected to such 
| damage (whether from a natural or magi- 
cal source), that damage is reduced by 10 
points before being applied to the crea- 
ture’s hit points. The value of the energy 
resistance granted increases to 20 points 
at 7th level and to a maximum of 30 
points at 11th level. The spell protects the 
recipient's equipment as well. 

Resist energy absorbs only damage. The 
| subject could still suffer unfortunate side 
l effects, such as drowning in acid (since 
{drowning damage comes from lack of 

oxygen) or becoming encased in ice. 

Note: Resist energy overlaps (and does 
not stack with) protection from energy. If a 
character is warded by protection from en- 
ergy and resist energy, the protection spell 


absorbs damage until its power is _ 


exhausted. 


Resistance 


Abjuration 

Level: Brd 0, Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1, 
Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 minute 

‘Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


‘You imbue the subject with magical en- 
ergy that protects it from harm, granting 
it a +1 resistance bonus on saves. 
Resistance can be made permanent with 
a permanency spell. 
Arcane Material Component: A miniature 
cloak. 


Restoration 


(Conjuration (Healing) 
‘Level: Clr 4, Pal 4 
‘Components: V, S, M 


[This spell functions like lesser restoration, 
except that it also dispels negative levels 
‘and restores one experience level to a crea- 
ture who has had a level drained. The 
drained level is restored only if the time 


since the creature lost the level is equal to. 
or less than one day per caster level. Thus, 
ifa 10th-level character has been struck by! 


a wight and drained to 9th level, restoration 


‘brings the character up to exactly the min- 


‘imum number of experience points neces- 
sary to restore him to 10th level (45,000 
XP), gaining him an additional Hit Die 
and level functions accordingly. 
Restoration cures all temporary ability 
damage, and it restores all points perma- 
nently drained from a single ability score 


(your choice if more than one is drained). 


It also eliminates any fatigue or exhaus- 
tion suffered by the target. 
Restoration does not restore levels or 
Constitution points lost due to death. 
Material Component: Diamond dust worth 
100 gp that is sprinkled over the target. 


Restoration, Greater 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7 
Components: V, S, XP 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 


This spell functions like lesser restoration, 
except that it dispels all negative levels 
afflicting the healed creature. This effect 
also reverses level drains by a force or crea- 
ture, restoring the creature to the highest 
level it had previously attained. The 
drained levels are restored only if the time 
since the creature lost the level is no more 
than one week per caster level. 

Greater restoration also dispels all magi- 
cal effects penalizing the creature's abili- 


ties, cures all temporary ability damage, 
and restores all points permanently 
drained from all ability scores. It also 
eliminates fatigue and exhaustion, and 
removes all forms of insanity, confusion, 
and similar mental effects. Greater restora- 
tion does not restore levels or Consti- 
tution points lost due to death. 
XP Cost: 500 XP. 


Restoration, Lesser 


Conjuration (Healing) 

Level: Clr 2, Drd 2, Pal 4 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 3 rounds 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


Lesser restoration dispels any magical ef- 
fects reducing one of the subject's ability 
scores (such as ray of enfeeblement) or cures 
1d4 points of temporary ability damage to 
one of the subject’s ability scores (such as 
from a shadow’s touch or from poison). It 
also eliminates any fatigue suffered by the 
character, and improves an exhausted 
condition to fatigued. It does not restore 
permanent ability drain. 


Resurrection 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr 7 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 


This spell functions like raise dead, except 
that you are able to restore life and com- 
plete strength to any deceased creature. 
The condition of the remains is not a 
factor. So long as some small portion of 
the creature’s body still exists, it can be 
resurrected, but the portion receiving the 
spell must have been part of the creature's 
body at the time of death. (The remains of 
a creature hit by a disintegrate spell count 
as a small portion of its body.) The crea- 
ture can have been dead no longer than | 
10 years per caster level. | 

Upon completion of the spell, the | 
creature is immediately restored to full 
hit points, vigor, and health, with no loss 
of prepared spells. However, the subject 
loses one level, or 2 points of Constitu- 
tion if the subject was 1st level. (If this 
reduction would bring its Con to 0 or 
lower, it can't be resurrected). This level 
loss or Constitution loss cannot be re- 
paired by any means. 

You can resurrect someone killed by a 
death effect or someone who has been 
turned into an undead creature and then 
destroyed. You cannot resurrect someone 
who has died of old age. Constructs, ele- 
mentals, outsiders, and undead creatures 
can't be resurrected. 


Material Component: A sprinkle of holy 
water and diamonds worth a total of at 
least 10,000 gp. 


Reverse Gravity 

Transmutation 
Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 

| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

_Area: Up to one 10-ft. cube/two 

levels (S) 

| Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell reverses gravity in an area, caus- 
ing all unattached objects and creatures 
within that area to fall upward and reach 
the top of the area in 1 round. If some 
solid object (such as a ceiling) is encoun- 
tered in this fall, falling objects and crea- 


tures strike it in the same manner as they, 


would during a normal downward fall. If 
an object or creature reaches the top of 
the area without striking anything, it 
remains there, oscillating slightly, until 
the spell ends. At the end of the spell 
duration, affected objects and creatures 
fall downward. i G 
Provided it has something to hold onto, 
a creature caught in the area can attempt a 
Reflex save to secure itself when the spell 
strikes. Creatures who can fly or levitate 
can keep themselves from falling. — | 
Arcane Material Component: A lodestone 
and iron filings. 


Righteous Might 

Transmutation _ 

Level: Clr 5, Strength 5 

_Components: V, S, DF 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Personal 

| Target: You 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 


This spell causes you to grow, doubling 
your height and multiplying your weight 
by 8. This increase changes your size cate- 
gory to the next larger one, and you gain a 
+4 size bonus to Strength and a +2 size 
bonus to Constitution. You gain a +2 en- 
| hancement bonus to your natural armor. 
| You gain damage reduction 3/evil (if you 
| normally channel positive energy) or 
(damage reduction 3/good (if you nor- 
mally channel negative energy). At 12th 
level this damage reduction becomes 
6/evil or 6/good, and at 15th level it be- 
comes 9/evil or 9/good (the maximum). 
Your size modifier for AC and attacks 
changes as appropriate to your new size 
category (if your original size was 
Diminutive, Tiny, Small, Medium, or 
Large, the modifier decreases by 1; other- 
wise see Size Modifier, page 134). 


Use Table 8—4: Creature Size and Scale 
to determine your new space and reach. 
This spell doesn’t change your speed. 

If insufficient room is available for the 
desired growth, you attain the maximum 
possible size and may make a Strength 
check (using your increased Strength) to 
burst any enclosures in the process. If 
you fail, you are constrained without 


harm by the materials enclosing you— 


the spell cannot crush you by increasing 
your size. 

All equipment you wear or carry is 
similarly enlarged by the spell. Melee 
and projectile weapons deal more 
damage (see Table 2-2 in the Dungeon 
Master’s Guide.). Other magical properties 
are not affected by this spell. Any en- 
larged item that leaves your possession 
(including a projectile or thrown weap- 


_on) instantly returns to its normal size. 
‘This means that thrown weapons deal 
\their normal damage (projectiles deal 
(damage based on the size of the weapon 
(that fired them). 


Multiple magical effects that increase 


size do not stack, which means (among 


other things) that you can't use a second 
casting of this spell to further increase 
your size while you are still under the 
effect of the first casting. 


Rope Trick 


Transmutation 


Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
‘Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action _ 


Range: Touch 

Target: One touched piece of rope from 
5 ft. to 30 ft. long 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


When this spell is cast upon a piece of 
rope from 5 to 30 feet long, one end of the 
rope rises into the air until the whole rope 
hangs perpendicular to the ground, as if 
affixed at the upper end. The upper end is, 
in fact, fastened to an extradimensional 
space that is outside the multiverse of 
extradimensional spaces (“planes”). Crea- 
tures in the extradimensional space are 
hidden, beyond the reach of spells 
(including divinations), unless those 
spells work across planes. The space holds 
as many as eight creatures (of any size). 
Creatures in the space can pull the rope 
up into the space, making the rope “disap- 
pear.” In that case, the rope counts as one 
of the eight creatures that can fit in the 
space. The rope can support up to 16,000 
pounds. A weight greater than that can 
pull the rope free. 

Spells cannot be cast across the extra- 
dimensional interface, nor can area ef- 
fects cross it. Those in the extradimen- 


sional space can see out of it as if a 3-foot- 
by-5-foot window were centered on the 
rope. The window is present on the Mate- 
rial Plane, but it’s invisible, and even crea- 
tures that can see the window can't see 
through it. Anything inside the extradi- 
mensional space drops out when the spell 
ends. The rope can be climbed by only | 
one person at a time. The rope trick spell) 
enables climbers to reach a normal place | 
if they do not climb all the way to the 
extradimensional space. 

Note: It is hazardous to create an ex- 
tradimensional space within an existing 
extradimensional space or to take an ex- 
tradimensional space into an existing one. 

Material Component: Powdered corn 
extract and a twisted loop of parchment. 


Rusting Grasp 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One nonmagical ferrous object 
(or the volume of the object within 
3 ft. of the touched point) or one 
ferrous creature 

Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


‘Any iron or iron alloy item you touch be- 
comes instantaneously rusted, pitted, and 
worthless, effectively destroyed. If the 
item is so large that it cannot fit within a 
3-foot radius (a large iron door or a wall of 
iron), a 3-foot-radius volume of the metal 
is rusted and destroyed. Magic items 
made of metal are immune to this spell. 

You may employ rusting grasp in combat 
with a successful melee touch attack. 
Rusting grasp used in this way instanta- 
neously destroys 1d6 points of Armor 
Class gained from metal armor (to the 
maximum amount of protection the 
armor offered) through corrosion. For ex- 
ample, full plate armor (AC +8) could be. 
reduced to +7 or as low as +2 in protec- | 
tion, depending on the die roll. | 

Weapons in use by an opponent tar- 
geted by the spell are more difficult to 
grasp. You must succeed on a melee touch 
attack against the weapon. A metal 
weapon that is hit is destroyed. 

Note: Striking at an opponent's weapon 
provokes an attack of opportunity. Also, 
you must touch the weapon and not the 
other way around. 

Against a ferrous creature, rusting grasp 
instantaneously deals 3d6 points of dam- 
age +1 per caster level (maximum +15) per 
successful attack. The spell lasts for 1 
round per level, and you can make one 
melee touch attack per round. 


Sanctuary 

Abjuration 

Level: Clr 1, Protection 1 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 

| Spell Resistance: No 


[Any opponent attempting to strike or oth- 
l erwise directly attack the warded crea- 
ture, even with a targeted spell, must 
attempt a Will save. If the save succeeds, 
the opponent can attack normally and is 
unaffected by that casting of the spell. If 
the save fails, the opponent can't follow 
through with the attack, that part of its 
action is lost, and it can’t directly attack 
the warded creature for the duration of 
the spell. Those not attempting to attack 
the subject remain unaffected. This spell 
does not prevent the warded creature 
from being attacked or affected by area or 
effect spells. The subject cannot attack 
without breaking the spell but may use 
nonattack spells or otherwise act. This al- 
lows a warded cleric to heal wounds, for 
example, or to cast a bless spell, perform an 
augury, summon creatures, and so on. 


Scare 
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Targets: One living creature/three 
levels, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 
| Duration: 1 round/level or 1 round; see 
___ text for cause fear 
| Saving Throw: Will partial 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


+—++ 


This spell functions like cause fear, except 
that it causes all targeted creatures of less 
than 6 HD to become frightened. 

Material Component: A bit of bone from 
an undead skeleton, zombie, ghoul, ghast, 
or mummy. 


Scintillating Pattern 
Illusion (Pattern) [Mind-Affecting] 
| Level: Sor/Wiz 8 
| Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Colorful lights in a 20-ft.-radius 
spread _ 
Duration: Concentration + 2 rounds 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A twisting pattern of discordant, coruscat- 
ing colors weaves through the air, af- 


fecting creatures within it. The spell 
affects a total number of Hit Dice of crea- 
tures equal to your caster level (maximum 
20). Creatures with the fewest HD are 
affected first; and, among creatures with 
equal HD, those who are closest to the 
spell’s point of origin are affected first. Hit 
Dice that are not sufficient to affect a crea- 
ture are wasted. The spell affects each sub- 
ject according to its Hit Dice. 

6 or less: Unconscious for 1d4 rounds, 
then stunned for 1d4 rounds, and then 
confused for 1d4 rounds. (Treat an uncon- 
scious result as stunned for nonliving 
creatures.) 

7 to 12: Stunned for 1d4 rounds, then 
confused for 1d4 rounds. 

13 or more: Confused for 1d4 rounds. 

Sightless creatures are not affected by 
scintillating pattern. 

Material Component: A small crystal 
‚prism. 


S¢orching Ray 


/Evocation [Fire] 
(Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
‘Components: V, S 
‘Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One or more rays 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


‘You blast your enemies with fiery rays.. 


‘You may fire one ray, plus one additional 
ray for every four levels beyond 3rd (to a 
maximum of three rays at 11th level). 
Each ray requires a ranged touch attack to 
hit and deals 4d6 points of fire damage. 
The rays may be fired at the same or dif- 
ferent targets, but all bolts must be aimed 


at targets within 30 feet of each other and. 


fired simultaneously. 


Screen 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8, Trickery 7 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Area: 30-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: 24 hours 

Saving Throw: None or Will disbelief (if 
interacted with); see text 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell combines several elements to 
create a powerful protection from scrying 
and direct observation. When casting the 
spell, you dictate what will and will not be 
observed in the spell’s area. The illusion cre- 
ated must be stated in general terms. Thus, 
you could specify the illusion of yourself 
and another character playing chess for the 
duration of the spell, but you could not 
have the illusory chess players take a break, 


make dinner, and then resume their game. 
You could have a crossroads appear quiet 
and empty even while an army is actually 
passing through the area. You could specify 
that no one be seen (including passing 
strangers), that your troops be undetected, 
or even that every fifth person or unit 
should be visible. Once the conditions are | 
set, they cannot be changed. | 

Attempts to scry the area automatically | 
detect the image stated by you with no 
save allowed. Sight and sound are appro- 
priate to the illusion created. A band of 
people standing in a meadow could be 
concealed as an empty meadow with birds 
chirping, for instance. 

Direct observation may allow a save (as 
per a normal illusion), if there is cause to 
disbelieve what is seen. Certainly onlook- 
ers in the area would become suspicious if 
a marching army disappeared at one point 
to reappear at another. Even entering the 
area does not cancel the illusion or neces- 
sarily allow a save, assuming that hidden 
beings take care to stay out of the way of 
those affected by the illusion. 


Scrying 


Divination (Scrying) 

Level: Brd 3, Clr 5, Drd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M/DE, F 
Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: See text 

Effect: Magical sensor 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You can see and hear some creature, 
which may be at any distance. If the sub- 
ject succeeds on a Will save, the scrying 
attempt simply fails. The difficulty of 
the save depends on how well you know 
the subject and what sort of physical 
connection (if any) you have to that 
creature. Furthermore, if the subject is 
on another plane, it gets a +5 bonus on 
its Will save. 


Knowledge Will Save Modifier | 
None’ +10 | 
Secondhand (you have heard +5 


of the subject) 
Firsthand (you have met the subject) +0 
Familiar (you know the subject well) -5 
1 You must have some sort of connection to 
a creature you have no knowledge of. 


Connection Will Save Modifier 
Likeness or picture -2 
Possession or garment —4 


Body part, lock of hair, bit of nail, etc. —10 


If the save fails, you can see and hear the 
subject and the subjects immediate sur- 
roundings (approximately 10 feet in all 
directions of the subject). If the subject 


moves, the sensor follows at a speed of up 
to 150 feet. 

As with all divination (scrying) spells, 
the sensor has your full visual acuity, in- 
cluding any magical effects. In addition, 
the following spells have a 5% chance per 
caster level of operating through the 
sensor: detect chaos, detect evil, detect good, 
detect law, detect magic, and message. 

___ If the save succeeds, you can't attempt, 
| to scry on that subject again for at least 24 
| hours. | 

Arcane Material Component: The eye of a 
hawk, an eagle, or a roc, plus nitric acid, 
copper, and zinc. 

Wizard, Sorcerer, or Bard Focus: A mirror 
of finely wrought and highly polished. 
silver costing not less than 1,000 gp. The 
mirror must be at least 2 feet by 4 feet. 

Cleric Focus: A holy water font costing 
not less than 100 gp. 

Druid Focus: A natural pool of water. 
Scrying, Greater --] 
Divination (Scrying) 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 7, Drd 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Duration: 1 hour/level 


This spell functions like scrying, except as 
noted above. Additionally, all of the fol- 
lowing spells function reliably through 
the sensor: detect chaos, detect evil, detect 
good, detect law, detect magic, message, read 
magic, and tongues. 


Sculpt Sound 
Transmutation 
Level: Brd3 
_Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
| Targets: One creature or object/level, no 
two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


t 


You change the sounds that creatures or 
objects make. You can create sounds where 
none exist (such as making trees sing), 
| deaden sounds (such as making a party of 
| adventurers silent), or transform sounds 
Linto other sounds (such as making a 
| caster’s voice sound like a pig snorting). All 
affected creatures or objects must be trans- 
muted in the same way. Once the transmu- 
tation is made, you cannot change it. 

You can change the qualities of sounds 
but cannot create words with which you 
are unfamiliar yourself. For instance, you 
can't change your voice so that it sounds 
as though you are giving the command 
word to activate a magic item unless you 
know that command word. 


A spellcaster whose voice is changed 
dramatically (such as into that of the 
aforementioned snorting pig) is unable to 
cast spells with verbal components. 


Searing Light 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 3, Sun 3 

Components: V, S 

‘Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Ray 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Focusing divine power like a ray of the 
sun, you project a blast of light from your 
open palm. You must succeed on a ranged 
touch attack to strike your target. A crea- 
ture struck by this ray of light takes 1d8 
‘points of damage per two caster levels 
(maximum 5d8). An undead creature 
‘takes 1d6 points of damage per caster lev- 
jel (maximum 10d6), and an undead crea- 
iture particularly vulnerable to bright 
light, such as a vampire, takes 1d8 points 
of damage per caster level (maximum 
10d8). A construct or inanimate object 
takes only 1dé points of damage per two 
caster levels (maximum 5d6). 


Secret Page 


Transmutation 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

‘Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Target: Page touched, up to 3 sq. ft. in 
size 

Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Secret page alters the contents of a page so 
that they appear to be something entirely 
different. Thus, a map can be changed to 
become a treatise on burnishing ebony 
walking sticks. The text of a spell can be 
changed to show a ledger page or even 
another spell. Explosive runes or sepia snake 
sigil can be cast upon the secret page. 

A comprehend languages spell alone 
cannot reveal a secret page's contents. You 
are able to reveal the original contents 
by speaking a special word. You can then 
peruse the actual page, and return it to 
its secret page form at will. You can also re- 
move the spell by double repetition of 
the special word. A detect magic spell re- 
veals dim magic on the page in question 
but does not reveal its true contents. 
True seeing reveals the presence of the 
hidden material but does not reveal the 
contents unless cast in combination 
with comprehend languages. A secret page 


spell can be dispelled, and the hidden 


writings can be destroyed by means of 
an erase spell. 

Material Component: Powdered herring 
scales and will-o'-wisp essence. 


See Invisibility 


Divination 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 


You can see any objects or beings that are 
invisible within your range of vision, as 
well as any that are ethereal, as if they were 
normally visible. Such creatures are visible 
to you as translucent shapes, allowing you 
easily to discern the difference between 
visible, invisible, and ethereal creatures. 

The spell does not reveal the method 
used to obtain invisibility. It does not re- 
veal illusions or enable you to see through 
opaque objects. It does not reveal crea- 
tures who are simply hiding, concealed, 
or otherwise hard to see. 

See invisibility can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. 

Material Component: A pinch of talc and 
a small sprinkling of powdered silver. 


Séeming 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/two levels, no two 
of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 12 hours (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates or Will 
disbelief (if interacted with) 

Spell Resistance: Yes or No; see text 


This spell functions like disguise self, ex- 
cept that you can change the appearance 
of other people as well. Affected creatures 
resume their normal appearances if slain. | 

Unwilling targets can negate the spell’s | 
effect on them by making Will saves or! 
with spell resistance. 


Sending 


Evocation 

Level: Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: See text 

Target: One creature 
Duration: 1 round; see text 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You contact a particular creature with 
which you are familiar and send a short 
message of twenty-five words or less to 


276 


the subject. The subject recognizes you if 
it knows you. It can answer in like man- 
ner immediately. A creature with an Intel- 
ligence score as low as 1 can understand 
the sending, though the subject's ability to 
react is limited as normal by its Intelli- 
gence score. Even if the sending is re- 
ceived, the subject is not obligated to act 
upon it in any manner. 
___ If the creature in question is not on the 
same plane of existence as you are, there 
is a 5% chance that the sending does not 
l arrive. (Local conditions on other planes 
may worsen this chance considerably, at 
the option of the DM.) 
Arcane Material Component: A short 
piece of fine copper wire. 


Sepia Snake Sigil 


Conjuration (Creation) [Force] 

Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Target: One touched book or written 
work 

Duration: Permanent or until | 
discharged; until released or 1d4 days | 
+ one day/level; see text 

Saving Throw: Reflex negates 

Spell Resistance: No 


When you cast sepia snake sigil, a small 
symbol appears in the text of one written 
work such as a book, scroll, or map. The 
text containing the symbol must be at 
least twenty-five words long. When any- 
one reads the text containing the symbol, 
the sepia snake springs into being and 
strikes the reader, provided there is line of 
_effect between the symbol and the reader. 
| Simply seeing the enspelled text is not 
| sufficient to trigger the spell; the subject 
| must deliberately read it. The target is 
[entitled to a save to evade the snake's 
strike. If it succeeds, the sepia snake dissi- 
pates in a flash of brown light accompa- 
nied by a puff of dun-colored smoke and a 
loud noise. If the target fails its save, it is 
engulfed in a shimmering amber field of 
force and immobilized until released, 
either at your command or when 1d4 days 
+ one day per caster level have elapsed. 
| While trapped in the amber field of 
| force, the subject does not age, breathe, 
| grow hungry, sleep, or regain spells. It is pre- 
| served in a state of suspended animation, 
unaware of its surroundings. It can be dam- 
aged by outside forces (and perhaps even 
killed), since the field provides no protec- 
tion against physical injury. However, a 
dying subject does not lose hit points or 
become stable until the spell ends. 

The hidden sigil cannot be detected by 
normal observation, and detect magic 
reveals only that the entire text is magical. 
A dispel magic can remove the sigil. An 


erase spell destroys the entire page of text. 
Sepia snake sigil can be cast in combination 
with other spells that hide or garble text, 
such as secret page. 

Material Component: 500 gp worth of 
powdered amber, a scale from any snake, 
and a pinch of mushroom spores. 


Sequester 


‘Abjuration 

‘Level: Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, M 

‘Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One willing creature or object 
(up to a 2-ft. cube/level) touched 

Duration: One day/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(object) 

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (object) 


When cast, this spell not only prevents 
(divination spells from working to detect 
lor locate the creature or object affected by 
|sequester, it also renders the affected crea- 
[ture or object invisible to any form of sight 
or seeing (as the invisibility spell). Thus, 
sequester can mask a secret door, a treasure 
vault, or anything similar. The spell does 
not prevent the subject from being discov- 


ered through tactile means or through the) 
use of devices (such as a robe of eyes or a gem. 
of seeing). Creatures affected by sequester 


become comatose and are effectively in a 


‘state of suspended animation until the 


‘spell wears off or is dispelled. 
| Note: The Will save prevents an at- 
tended or magical object from being se- 
questered. There is no save to see the seques- 
tered creature or object or to detect it with 
a divination spell. 

Material Component: A basilisk eyelash, 


gum arabic, and a dram of whitewash. 


Shades 


Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 9 


This spell functions like shadow conjura- 
tion, except that it mimics sorcerer and 
wizard conjuration spells of 8th level or 
lower. The illusory conjurations created 
deal four-fifths (80%) damage to nonbe- 
lievers, and nondamaging effects are 80% 
likely to work against nonbelievers. 


Shadow Conjuration 


Illusion (Shadow) 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: See text 

Effect: See text 

Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with); varies; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes; see text 


You use material from the Plane of Shad- 
ow to shape quasi-real illusions of one or 
more creatures, objects, or forces. Shadow 
conjuration can mimic any sorcerer or wiz- 
ard conjuration (summoning) or conjura- 
tion (creation) spell of 3rd level or lower. 
Shadow conjurations are actually one-fifth 
(20%) as strong as the real things, though | 
creatures who believe the shadow conjura- | 
tions to be real are affected by them at full | 
strength. 

Any creature that interacts with the 
conjured object, force, or creature can 
make a Will save to recognize its true 
nature. 

Spells that deal damage, such as Melf’s 
acid arrow, have normal effects unless the 
affected creature succeeds on a Will save. 
Each disbelieving creature takes only 
one-fifth (20%) damage from the attack. If 
the disbelieved attack has a special effect 
other than damage, that effect is only 20% 
likely to occur. Regardless of the result of 
the save to disbelieve, an affected creature 
is also allowed any save that the spell 
being simulated allows, but the save DC is 
set according to shadow conjuration’s level 
(4th) rather than the spell’s normal level. 
In addition, any effect created by shadow 
conjuration allows spell resistance, even if 
the spell it is simulating does not. 

Shadow objects or substances, such as 
obscuring mist, have normal effects except 
against those who disbelieve them. 
Against disbelievers, they are 20% likely 
to work. 

A shadow creature has one-fifth the hit 
points of a normal creature of its kind 
(regardless of whether it’s recognized as 
shadowy). It deals normal damage and has 
all normal abilities and weaknesses. 
‘Against a creature that recognizes it as a 
shadow creature, however, the shadow 
creature's damage is one-fifth (20%) 
normal, and all special abilities that do 
not deal lethal damage are only 20% likely 
to work. (Roll for each use and each 
affected character separately.) Further- 
more, the shadow creature’s AC bonuses | 
are one-fifth as large (so a +7 bonus result- | 
ing in AC 17 would change to a +1 total | 
bonus for a new AC of 11). 

A creature that succeeds on its save 
sees the shadow conjurations as transparent 
images superimposed on vague, shadowy 
forms. 

Objects automatically succeed on their 
Will saves against this spell. 


Shadow Conjuration, Greater 


Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 


This spell functions like shadow conjura- 
tion, except that it can duplicate any sor- 
cerer or wizard conjuration (summoning) 
or conjuration (creation) spell of 6th level 


or lower. The illusory conjurations cre- 
ated deal three-fifths (60%) damage to 
nonbelievers, and nondamaging effects 
are 60% likely to work against non- 
believers. 


Shadow Evocation 


Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
| Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: See text 
| Effect: See text 
Duration: See text 
Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with) 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You tap energy from the Plane of Shadow 
to cast a quasi-real, illusory version of a 
sorcerer or wizard evocation spell of 4th 
level or lower. (For a spell with more than 
one level, use the best one applicable to, 
you.) | 
Spells that deal damage, such as light- 
ning bolt, have normal effects unless an, 
affected creature succeeds on a Will save. 
Each disbelieving creature takes only 
one-fifth damage from the attack. If the 
disbelieved attack has a special effect 
other than damage, that effect is one-fifth 
as strong (if applicable) or only 20% likely 
to occur. If recognized as a shadow evoca- 
tion, a damaging spell deals only one-fifth 
(20%) damage. Regardless of the result of 
the save to disbelieve, an affected creature 
is also allowed any save (or spell 
resistance) that the spell being simulated 
allows, but the save DC is set according to 
shadow evocation’s level (5th) rather than 
_the spell’s normal level. 
| Nondamaging effects, such as gust of 
| wind, have normal effects except against 
| those who disbelieve them. Against dis- 
| believers, they have no effect. 
Objects automatically succeed on their 
Will saves against this spell. 


Shadow Evocation, Greater 
Illusion (Shadow) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 8 


This spell functions like shadow evocation, 
except that it enables you to create par- 
| tially real, illusory versions of sorcerer or 
wizard evocation spells of 7th level or 
| lower. If recognized as a greater shadow evo- 

cation, a damaging spell deals only three- 

fifths (60%) damage. 


Shadow Walk 

Illusion (Shadow) 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 


Targets: Up to one touched crea- 
ture/level 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


To use the shadow walk spell, you must be 
in an area of shadowy illumination. You 
and any creature you touch are then 
‘transported along a coiling path of shad- 
owstuff to the edge of the Material Plane 
where it borders the Plane of Shadow. The 
‘effect is largely illusory, but the path is 
quasi-real. You can take more than one 
creature along with you (subject to your 
level limit), but all must be touching each 
other. 

In the region of shadow, you move at a 
rate of 50 miles per hour, moving nor- 
mally on the borders of the Plane of 
Shadow but much more rapidly relative to 
\the Material Plane. Thus, you can use this 
ispell to travel rapidly by stepping onto 
ithe Plane of Shadow, moving the desired 
(distance, and then stepping back onto the 
‘Material Plane. 
| Because of the blurring of real- 
ity between the Plane of Shadow and 
the Material Plane, you can’t make out 
details of the terrain or areas you pass 


over during transit, nor can you predict, 
perfectly where your travel will end. It’s 
impossible to judge distances accurately, 


making the spell virtually useless for 


‘scouting or spying. Furthermore, when, 


ithe spell effect ends, you are shunted 
1d10x100 feet in a random horizontal 
direction from your desired endpoint. 
If this would place you within a solid 
object, you are shunted 1d10x1,000 feet 
in the same direction. If this would still 
place you within a solid object, you (and 


any creatures with you) are shunted to, 


the nearest empty space available, but the 
strain of this activity renders each crea- 
ture fatigued (no save). 

Shadow walk can also be used to travel 
to other planes that border on the Plane 
of Shadow, but this usage requires the 
transit of the Plane of Shadow to arrive at 
a border with another plane of reality. 
The transit of the Plane of Shadow 
requires 1d4 hours. 

Any creatures touched by you when 
shadow walk is cast also make the transi- 
tion to the borders of the Plane of Shad- 
ow. They may opt to follow you, wander 
off through the plane, or stumble back 
into the Material Plane (50% chance for 
either of the latter results if they are lost 
or abandoned by you). Creatures unwill- 
ing to accompany you into the Plane of 
Shadow receive a Will saving throw, 
negating the effect if successful. 


Shambler 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Drd 9, Plant 9 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Three or more shambling 
mounds, no two of which can be more | 
than 30 ft. apart; see text 

Duration: Seven days or seven months 
(D); see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


The shambler spell creates 1d4+2 sham- 
bling mounds with 11 HD each. (See 
the Monster Manual for details about 
shambling mounds.) The creatures 
willingly aid you in combat or battle, 
perform a specific mission, or serve as 
bodyguards. The creatures remain with 
you for seven days unless you dismiss 
them. If the shamblers are created only 
for guard duty, however, the duration of 
the spell is seven months. In this case, 
the shamblers can only be ordered to 
guard a specific site or location. Sham- 
blers summoned to guard duty cannot 
move outside the spell’s range, which is 
measured from the point where each 
first appeared. 

The shamblers have resistance to fire 
as normal shambling mounds do only if 
the terrain is rainy, marshy, or damp. 


Shapechange 


Transmutation (Polymorph) 
Level: Animal 9, Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 


This spell functions like polymorph, 
except that it enables you to assume the 
form of any single non-unique creature 
(of any type) from Fine to Colossal size. 
The assumed form can’t have more than | 
your caster level in Hit Dice (to a maxi- | 
mum of 25 HD). Unlike polymorph, this | 
spell allows incorporeal or gaseous forms 
to be assumed. 

You gain all extraordinary and super- 
natural abilities of the assumed form, but 
you lose your own supernatural abilities. 
You also gain the type of the assumed 
form in place of your own. The assumed 
form doesn’t disorient you. Parts of your 
body or pieces of equipment that are sepa- 
rated from you don’t revert to their natu- 
ral forms. 

You can become any creature you're 
familiar with, changing form up to 
once each round as a free action. The 
change can’t take place during another 
action. If you use this spell to create a dis- 


27/8 


guise, you gain a +10 bonus on your Dis- 
guise check. 

Focus: A jade circlet worth at least 1,500 
gp, which you must place on your head 
when casting the spell. This focus melds 
into your assumed form. 


Shatter 


Evocation [Sonic] | 
| Level: Brd 2, Chaos 2, Clr 2, Destruction | 
|__2, Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target or Area: One solid object, one 

crystalline creature, or one 5-ft.-radius 

spread 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object); 

Will negates (object) or Fortitude half; 

see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) | 

| 

Shatter creates a loud, ringing noise that 

breaks brittle, nonmagical objects; sun- 

ders a single solid, nonmagical object; or 
damages a crystalline creature. 

Used as an area attack, shatter destroys 
nonmagical objects of crystal, glass, 
ceramic, or porcelain, such as vials, bot- 
tles, flasks, jugs, windows, mirrors, and 
so forth. All such objects within a 5-foot 
radius of the point of origin are smashed 
into dozens of pieces by the spell. Objects. 
weighing more than 1 pound per your 
level are not affected, but all other objects, 
of the appropriate composition are 
shattered. 

Alternatively, you can target shatter 
against a single solid object, regardless of 

composition, weighing up to 10 pounds 

| per caster level. 

|__ Targeted against a crystalline creature 

| (of any weight), shatter deals 1d6 points of 

[sonic damage per caster level (maximum 
(10d6), with a Fortitude save for half 
damage. 

Arcane Material Component: A chip of 
mica. 


Shield 


Abjuration [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
_Components: V, S S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Personal 
| Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 


Shield creates an invisible, tower shield- 
sized mobile disk of force that hovers in 
front of you. It negates magic missile 
attacks directed at you. The disk also 
provides a +4 shield bonus to AC. This 
bonus applies against incorporeal touch 
attacks, since it is a force effect. The 


shield has no armor check penalty or 
arcane spell failure chance. Unlike with 
a normal tower shield, you can’t use the 
shield spell for cover. 


Shield of Faith 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 1 

Components: V, S, M 

‘Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Touch 

‘Target: Creature touched 

‘Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


This spell creates a shimmering, magical 
field around the touched creature that 
averts attacks. The spell grants the subject 
a +2 deflection bonus to AC, with an addi- 
tional +1 to the bonus for every six levels 
\you have (maximum +5 deflection bonus 
lat 18th level). 
Material Component: A small parchment 
{with a bit of holy text written upon it. 


Shield of Law 


‘Abjuration [Lawful] 

Level: Clr 8, Law 8 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 20 ft. 

Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.- 
radius burst centered on you 

‘Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

‘Saving Throw: See text 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) _ 


A dim, blue glow surrounds the subjects, 
protecting them from attacks, granting 
them resistance to spells cast by chaotic 
creatures, and slowing chaotic creatures 


when they strike the subjects. This abju-, 


ration has four effects. 

First, each warded creature gains a +4 
deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resis- 
tance bonus on saves. Unlike protection 
from chaos, this benefit applies against all 
attacks, not just against attacks by cha- 
otic creatures. 

Second, a warded creature gains spell 
resistance 25 against chaotic spells and 
spells cast by chaotic creatures. 

Third, the abjuration blocks posses- 
sion and mental influence, just as protec- 
tion from chaos does. 

Finally, if a chaotic creature succeeds 
on a melee attack against a warded crea- 
ture, the attacker is slowed (Will save 
negates, as the slow spell, but against 
shield of law’s save DC). 

Focus: A tiny reliquary containing 
some sacred relic, such as a scrap of 
parchment from a lawful text. The reli- 
quary costs at least 500 gp. 


Shield Other 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 2, Pal 2, Protection 2 
Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


This spell wards the subject and creates a 
mystic connection between you and the 
subject so that some of its wounds are 
transferred to you. The subject gains a +1 
deflection bonus to AC and a +1 resis- 
tance bonus on saves. Additionally, the 
subject takes only half damage from all 
wounds and attacks (including that dealt 
by special abilities) that deal hit point 
damage. The amount of damage not 
taken by the warded creature is taken by 
you. Forms of harm that do not involve 
hit points, such as charm effects, tempo- 
rary ability damage, level draining, and 
death effects, are not affected. If the sub- 
ject suffers a reduction of hit points 
from a lowered Constitution score, the 
reduction is not split with you because it 
is not hit point damage. When the spell 
ends, subsequent damage is no longer 
divided between the subject and you, 
but damage already split is not reas- 
signed to the subject. 

If you and the subject of the spell move 
out of range of each other, the spell ends. 

Focus: A pair of platinum rings (worth 
at least 50 gp each) worn by both you and 
the warded creature. 


Shillelagh 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One touched nonmagical oak 
club or quarterstaff 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


Your own nonmagical club or quarterstaff 
becomes a weapon with a +1 enhance- 
ment bonus on attack and damage rolls. 
(A quarterstaff gains this enhancement 
for both ends of the weapon.) It deals 
damage as if it were two size categories 
larger (a Small club or quarterstaff so 
transmuted deals 1d8 points of damage, a 
Medium 2d6, and a Large 3d6), +1 for its 
enhancement bonus. These effects only 
occur when the weapon is wielded by 
you. If you do not wield it, the weapon 
behaves as if unaffected by this spell. 


Shocking Grasp 
Evocation [Electricity] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 
Target: Creature or object touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| Your successful melee touch attack deals 

| 1dé points of electricity damage per caster 
level (maximum 5d6). When delivering 
the jolt, you gain a +3 bonus on attack 
rolls if the opponent is wearing metal 
armor (or made out of metal, carrying a 
lot of metal, or the like). 


Shout 

Evocation [Sonic] 

Level: Brd 4, Sor/Wiz4 _ 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 30 ft. 

Area: Cone-shaped burst 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial or 
Reflex negates (object); see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You emit an ear-splitting yell that deafens 
and damages creatures in its path. Any 
creature within the area is deafened for 
2d6 rounds and takes 5d6 points of sonic 
damage. A successful save negates the 
deafness and reduces the damage by half. 
Any exposed brittle or crystalline object 
or crystalline creature takes 1d6 points of 
sonic damage per caster level (maximum 
15d6). An affected creature is allowed a 
| Fortitude save to reduce the damage by 
| half, and a creature holding fragile objects 
|can negate damage to them with a suc- 
| cessful Reflex save. 
A shout spell cannot penetrate a silence 
spell. 


Shout, Greater 
Evocation [Sonic] 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, F 
Range: 60 ft. 
| Saving Throw: Fortitude partial or 
| Reflex negates (object); see text 


| This spell functions like shout, except that 
the cone deals 10d6 points of sonic dam- 
age (or 1d6 points of sonic damage per 
caster level, maximum 20d6, against ex- 
posed brittle or crystalline objects or crys- 
talline creatures). It also causes creatures 
to be stunned for 1 round and deafened 
for 4d6 rounds. A creature in the area of 
the cone can negate the stunning and 
halve both the damage and the duration 
of the deafness with a successful Fort- 


itude save. A creature holding vulnerable 
objects can attempt a Reflex save to 
negate the damage to those objects. 

Arcane Focus: A small metal or ivory 
horn. 


Shrink Item 


Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 3 


Components: V, S 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 


‘Range: Touch 


Target: One touched object of up to 2 cu. 
ft./level 

Duration: One day/level; see text 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You are able to shrink one nonmagical 
item (if it is within the size limit) to 1/16 


of its normal size in each dimension (to 
‘about 1/4,000 the original volume and 
\mass). This change effectively reduces the 
‘object's size by four categories (for in- 
stance, from Large to Diminutive). Op- 
\tionally, you can also change its now- 
shrunken composition to a clothlike one. 


Objects changed by a shrink item spell can 
be returned to normal composition and 
size merely by tossing them onto any solid 


surface or by a word of command from the, 
original caster. Even a burning fire and its. 
fuel can be shrunk by this spell. Restoring. 


the shrunken object to its normal size and 


composition ends the spell. | 
Shrink item can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell, in which case the 


affected object can be shrunk and ex- 
panded an indefinite number of times, 
but only by the original caster. 


Silence 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: 20-ft-radius emanation centered 
on a creature, object, or point in space 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text or 
none (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes; see text or no 
(object) 


Upon the casting of this spell, complete 
silence prevails in the affected area. All 
sound is stopped: Conversation is impos- 
sible, spells with verbal components can- 
not be cast, and no noise whatsoever is- 
sues from, enters, or passes through the 
area. The spell can be cast on a point in 
space, but the effect is stationary unless 
cast on a mobile object. The spell can be 
centered on a creature, and the effect then 
radiates from the creature and moves as it 
moves. An unwilling creature can attempt 


a Will save to negate the spell and can use 
spell resistance, if any. Items in a creature's 
possession or magic items that emit sound 
receive the benefits of saves and spell 
resistance, but unattended objects and 
points in space do not. This spell provides 
a defense against sonic or language-based 
attacks, such as command, a harpy’s capti- | 
vating song, a horn of blasting, and the like. | 


Silent Image 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Effect: Visual figment that cannot 
extend beyond four 10-ft. cubes + one 
10-ft. cube/level (S) 

Duration: Concentration 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 
acted with) 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell creates the visual illusion of an 
object, creature, or force, as visualized by 
you. The illusion does not create sound, 
smell, texture, or temperature. You can 
move the image within the limits of the 
size of the effect. 

Focus: A bit of fleece. 


Simulacrum 


Illusion (Shadow) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M, XP 
Casting Time: 12 hours 
Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: One duplicate creature 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Simulacrum creates an illusory duplicate 

of any creature. The duplicate creature is 

partially real and formed from ice or 

snow. It appears to be the same as the orig- 

inal, but it has only one-half of the real 

creature’s levels or Hit Dice (and the 
appropriate hit points, feats, skill ranks, 
and special abilities for a creature of that | 
level or HD). You can’t create a simu- 

lacrum of a creature whose Hit Dice or 

levels exceed twice your caster level. You 

must make a Disguise check when you 

cast the spell to determine how good the 

likeness is. A creature familiar with the 

original might detect the ruse with a suc- 

cessful Spot check (opposed by the 

caster’s Disguise check) or a DC 20 Sense 

Motive check. 

At all times the simulacrum remains 
under your absolute command. No spe- 
cial telepathic link exists, so command 
must be exercised in some other manner. 
A simulacrum has no ability to become 
more powerful. It cannot increase its level 


280 


or abilities. If reduced to 0 hit points or 
otherwise destroyed, it reverts to snow 
and melts instantly into nothingness. A 
complex process requiring at least 24 
hours, 100 gp per hit point, and a fully 
equipped magical laboratory can repair 
damage to a simulacrum. | 
Material Component: The spell is cast 
over the rough snow or ice form, and, 
some piece of the creature to be dupli- 
‘cated (hair, nail, or the like) must be 
placed inside the snow or ice. Addi- 
| tionally, the spell requires powdered ruby 
worth 100 gp per HD of the simulacrum 
to be created. 
XP Cost: 100 XP per HD of the simu- 
lacrum to be created (minimum 1,000 XP). 


Slay Living 


Necromancy [Death] 

Level: Clr 5, Death 5 
Components: V, S ie 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


4—4 


You can slay any one living creature. You 
must succeed on a melee touch attack to 
touch the subject, and it can avoid death 
with a successful Fortitude save. If it suc- 
ceeds, it instead takes 3d6 points of dam- 
age +1 point per caster level. (Of course, 
the subject might die from damage even 
if it succeeds on its save.) | 


— 


Sleep 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
___ Affecting] 
| Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
| Components: V, S, M 
| Casting Time: 1 round 
| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
| Area: One or more living creatures 
within a 10-ft-radius burst 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


A sleep spell causes a magical slumber to 

come upon 4 Hit Dice of creatures. Crea- 
| tures with the fewest HD are affected first. 
| Among creatures with equal HD, those 
| who are closest to the spell’s point of origin 
| are affected first. Hit Dice that are not suf- 
ficient to affect a creature are wasted. 

For example, Mialee casts sleep at one 
rat (1/4 HD), one kobold (1 HD), two 
gnolls (2 HD), and an ogre (4 HD). The 
rat, the kobold, and one gnoll are affected 
(1/4 +1+2 = 3-1/4 HD). The remaining 
3/4 HD is not enough to affect the last 
gnoll or the ogre. Mialee can’t choose to 
have sleep affect the ogre or the two gnolls. 

Sleeping creatures are helpless. Slap- 


ping or wounding awakens an affected 
creature, but normal noise does not. 
Awakening a creature is a standard action 
(an application of the aid another action). 

Sleep does not target unconscious crea- 
tures, constructs, or undead creatures. 

Material Component: A pinch of fine 
sand, rose petals, or a live cricket. 


Sleet Storm 


‘Conjuration (Creation) [Cold] 

Level: Drd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

‘Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: Cylinder (40-ft. radius, 20 ft. high) 
Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


Driving sleet blocks all sight (even dark- 
\vision) within it and causes the ground in 
ithe area to be icy. A creature can walk 
(within or through the area of sleet at half 
inormal speed with a DC 10 Balance 
icheck. Failure means it can’t move in that 
round, while failure by 5 or more means it 
falls (see the Balance skill for details). 

The sleet extinguishes torches and 
small fires. 

Arcane Material Component: A pinch of 
dust and a few drops of water. 


Slow 


‘Transmutation 

‘Level: Brd 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An affected creature moves and attacks at 
a drastically slowed rate. A slowed creature 
can take only a single move action or stan- 
dard action each turn, but not both (nor 
may it take full-round actions). Ad- 
ditionally, it takes a -1 penalty on attack 
rolls, AC, and Reflex saves. A slowed crea- 
ture moves at half its normal speed 
(round down to the next 5-foot incre- 
ment), which affects the creature's jump- 
ing distance as normal for decreased 
speed. 

Multiple slow effects don’t stack. Slow 
counters and dispels haste. 

Material Component: A drop of molasses. 


Snare 


Transmutation 

Level: Rgr 2, Drd 3 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 3 rounds 
Range: Touch 


Target: Touched nonmagical circle of 
vine, rope, or thong with a 2 ft. diame- 
ter + 2 ft./level 

Duration: Until triggered or broken 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell enables you to make a snare | 
that functions as a magic trap. The snare | 
can be made from any supple vine, a! 
thong, or a rope. When you cast snare 
upon it, the cordlike object blends with 
its surroundings (Search DC 23 fora 
character with the trapfinding ability to 
locate). One end of the snare is tied in a 
loop that contracts around one or more 
of the limbs of any creature stepping 
inside the circle. (The head of a worm or 
a snake could be thus ensnared, for 
example.) 

Ifa strong and supple tree is nearby, the 
snare can be fastened to it. The spell 
causes the tree to bend and then 
straighten when the loop is triggered, 
dealing 1d6 points of damage to the crea- 
ture trapped and lifting it off the ground 
by the trapped limb or limbs. If no such 
tree is available, the cordlike object tight- 
ens around the creature, dealing no dam- 
age but causing it to be entangled. 

The snare is magical. To escape, a 
trapped creature must make a DC 23 Es- 
cape Artist check or a DC 23 Strength 
check that is a full-round action. The 
snare has AC 7 and 5 hit points. A suc- 
cessful escape from the snare breaks the 
loop and ends the spell. 


Soften Earth and Stone 


Transmutation [Earth] 

Level: Drd 2, Earth 2 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 10-ft. square/level; see text 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


When this spell is cast, all natural, un- | 
dressed earth or stone in the spell’s area is | 
softened. Wet earth becomes thick mud, 
dry earth becomes loose sand or dirt, and 
stone becomes soft clay that is easily 
molded or chopped. You affect a 10-foot- 
square area to a depth of 1 to 4 feet, de- 
pending on the toughness or resilience of 
the ground at that spot (DM’s option). 
Magical, enchanted, dressed, or worked 
stone cannot be affected. Earth or stone 
creatures are not affected. 

A creature in mud must succeed on a 
Reflex save or be caught for 1d2 rounds 
and unable to move, attack, or cast spells. 
A creature that succeeds on its save can 
move through the mud at half speed, and 
it can't run or charge. 


Loose dirt is not as troublesome as 
mud, but all creatures in the area can 
move at only half their normal speed and 
can't run or charge over the surface. 

Stone softened into clay does not 
hinder movement, but it does allow char- 
acters to cut, shape, or excavate areas they 
may not have been able to affect before. 
For example, a party of adventurers trying 

_to break out of a cavern might use this 
| spell to soften a wall. While soften earth and 
| stone does not affect dressed or worked 
| stone, cavern ceilings or vertical surfaces 
such as cliff faces can be affected. Usually, 
this causes a moderate collapse or land- 
slide as the loosened material peels away 
from the face of the wall or roof and falls. 

A moderate amount of structural dam- 
age can be dealt to a manufactured struc- 
ture (such as a wall or a tower) by soften- 
ing the ground beneath it, causing it to 
settle. However, most well-built struc- 


tures will only be damaged by this spell, 


not destroyed. 


Solid Fog 

Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 min./level 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell functions like fog cloud, but in 
addition to obscuring sight, the solid fogis so 


thick that any creature attempting to move 


through it progresses at a speed of 5 feet, 

regardless of its normal speed, and it takes a 

—2 penalty on all melee attack and melee 

damage rolls. The vapors prevent effective 

ranged weapon attacks (except for magic 
_rays and the like). A creature or object that 
| falls into solid fog is slowed, so that each 10 
| feet of vapor that it passes through reduces 
| falling damage by 1d6. A creature can't take 
|a 5-foot step while in solid fog. 

However, unlike normal fog, only a se- 
vere wind (31+ mph) disperses these va- 
pors, and it does so in 1 round. 

Solid fog can be made permanent with a 
permanency spell. A permanent solid fog 
dispersed by wind reforms in 10 minutes. 

Material Component: A pinch of dried, 
powdered peas combined with powdered 

‚animal hoof. 


Song of Discord 
| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting, Sonic] 

Level: Brd 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: 20-ft.-radius spread 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell causes those within the area to 
turn on each other rather than attack 
their foes. Each affected creature has a 
50% chance to attack the nearest target 
each round. (Roll to determine each crea- 
ture’s behavior every round at the begin- 
ning of its turn.) A creature that does not 
attack its nearest neighbor is free to act 
normally for that round. 

Creatures forced by a song of discord to 


‘attack their fellows employ all methods at 
their disposal, choosing their deadliest 


spells and most advantageous combat tac- 
tics. They do not, however, harm targets 
that have fallen unconscious. 


Soul Bind 


Necromancy 
Level: Clr 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V, S, F 


‚Casting Time: 1 standard action 
‘Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: Corpse 

Duration: Permanent 

{Saving Throw: Will negates 

[Spell Resistance: No 


You draw the soul from a newly dead body 


and imprison it in a black sapphire gem. 
The subject must have been dead no more 


than 1 round per caster level. The soul,, 
once trapped in the gem, cannot be 
returned through clone, raise dead, reincar-! 


nation, resurrection, true resurrection, or even 


la miracle or a wish. Only by destroying the, 


gem or dispelling the spell on the gem can 


cone free the soul (which is then still dead). 


Focus: A black sapphire of at least 1,000 
gp value for every Hit Die possessed by 
the creature whose soul is to be bound. If 
the gem is not valuable enough, it shatters 
when the binding is attempted. (While 


creatures have no concept of level or Hit. 


Dice as such, the value of the gem needed 
to trap an individual can be researched. 
Remember that this value can change over 
time as creatures gain more Hit Dice.) 


Sound Burst 


Evocation [Sonic] 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2 

Components: V, S, F/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area: 10-ft.-radius spread 
Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You blast an area with a tremendous ca- 
cophony. Every creature in the area takes 
1d8 points of sonic damage and must suc- 
ceed on a Fortitude save to avoid being 
stunned for 1 round. 

Creatures that cannot hear are not 
stunned but are still damaged. 

Arcane Focus: A musical instrument. 


Speak with Animals 


Divination 

Level: Brd 3, Drd 1, Rgr 1 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level 


You can comprehend and communicate | 


with animals. You are able to ask ques- 
tions of and receive answers from ani- 
mals, although the spell doesn’t make 
them any more friendly or cooperative 
than normal. Furthermore, wary and cun- 
ning animals are likely to be terse and eva- 
sive, while the more stupid ones make 
inane comments. If an animal is friendly 
toward you, it may do some favor or ser- 
vice for you (as determined by the DM). 


Speak with Dead 


Necromancy [Language-Dependent] 
Level: Clr 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 10 ft. 

Target: One dead creature 
Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: No 


You grant the semblance of life and intel- 
lect to a corpse, allowing it to answer sev- 
eral questions that you put to it. You may 
ask one question per two caster levels. 
Unasked questions are wasted if the dura- 
tion expires. The corpse’s knowledge is lim- 
ited to what the creature knew during life, 
including the languages it spoke (if any). 
‘Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repet- 
itive. If the creature's alignment was differ- 
ent from yours, the corpse gets a Will save 
to resist the spell as if it were alive. 

If the corpse has been subject to speak 
with dead within the past week, the new 
spell fails. You can cast this spell ona 
corpse that has been deceased for any 


amount of time, but the body must be. 
mostly intact to be able to respond. A. 
damaged corpse may be able to give par-| 


tial answers or partially correct answers, 
but it must at least have a mouth in order 
to speak at all. 

This spell does not let you actually 
speak to the person (whose soul has de- 
parted). It instead draws on the imprinted 
knowledge stored in the corpse. The par- 
tially animated body retains the imprint 
of the soul that once inhabited it, and thus 
it can speak with all the knowledge that 
the creature had while alive. The corpse, 
however, cannot learn new information. 
Indeed, it can’t even remember being 
questioned. 

This spell does not affect a corpse that 
has been turned into an undead creature. 


281 


. 


Speak with Plants 

Divination 

Level: Brd 4, Drd 3, Rgr 2 
Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level 


| You can comprehend and communicate 
with plants, including both normal plants 
[and plant creatures. You are able to ask 
| questions of and receive answers from 
plants. A regular plant’s sense of its sur- 
roundings is limited, so it won't be able to 
give (or recognize) detailed descriptions 
of creatures or answer questions about 
events outside its immediate vicinity. 
The spell doesn't make plant creatures 
any more friendly or cooperative than nor- 
mal. Furthermore, wary and cunning plant 
creatures are likely to be terse and evasive, 
while the more stupid ones may make 
inane comments. If a plant creature is 
friendly toward you, it may do some favor or 
service for you (as determined by the DM). 


Spectral Hand _ 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: One spectral hand 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


A ghostly, glowing hand shaped from your 
life force materializes and moves as you 
desire, allowing you to deliver low-level, 
| touch range spells at a distance. On casting 
| the spell, you lose 1d4 hit points that return 
| when the spell ends (even if it is dispelled), 
| but not if the hand is destroyed. (The hit 
| points can be healed as normal.) For as long 
as the spell lasts, any touch range spell of 
4th level or lower that you cast can be deliv- 
ered by the spectral hand. The spell gives you 
a +2 bonus on your melee touch attack roll, 
and attacking with the hand counts nor- 
mally as an attack. The hand always strikes 
from your direction. The hand cannot flank 
| targets like a creature can. After it delivers a 
| spell, or if the hand goes beyond the spell 
| range, goes out of your sight, the hand 
| returns to you and hovers. 

The hand is incorporeal and thus can- 
not be harmed by normal weapons. It has 
improved evasion (half damage on a failed 
Reflex save and no damage on a success- 
ful save), your save bonuses, and an AC of 
at least 22. Your Intelligence modifier 
applies to the hand’s AC as if it were the 
hand’s Dexterity modifier. The hand has 1 
to 4 hit points, the same number that you 
lost in creating it. 


Spell Immunity 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 4, Protection 4, Strength 4 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
‘Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


‘The warded creature is immune to the ef- 
fects of one specified spell for every four 
levels you have. The spells must be of 4th 
level or lower. The warded creature effec- 
tively has unbeatable spell resistance re- 
garding the specified spell or spells. Natu- 
rally, that immunity doesn’t protect a 
creature from spells for which spell resist- 
ance doesn't apply. Spell immunity protects 
against spells, spell-like effects of magic 
\items, and innate spell-like abilities of 
‘creatures. It does not protect against 
[supernatural or extraordinary abilities, 


{such as breath weapons or gaze attacks. 


[Only a particular spell can be protected 
against, not a certain domain or school of 
‘spells or a group of spells that are similar 
in effect. Thus, a creature given immunity 
to lightning bolt is still vulnerable to shock- 
ing grasp or chain lightning. 


A creature can have only one spell im-, 
munity or greater spell immunity spell in! 


effect on it at a time. 


Spell Immunity, Greater 


‚Abjuration 
Level: Clr 8 


This spell functions like spell immunity, 
except the immunity applies to spells of 
8th level or lower. 


A creature can have only one spell im-, 


munity or greater spell immunity spell in 
effect on it at a time. 


Spell Resistance 


Abjuration 

Level: Clr 5, Magic 5, Protection 5 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The creature gains spell resistance equal 
to 12 + your caster level. 


Spell Turning 


Abjuration 

Level: Luck 7, Magic 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 


Duration: Until expended or 10 min./ 
level 


Spells and spell-like effects targeted on 
you are turned back upon the original 
caster. The abjuration turns only spells 
that have you as a target. Effect and area 
spells are not affected. Spell turning also | 
fails to stop touch range spells. Thus, a | 
charm person spell cast at you could be! 
turned back upon the caster and possibly 
enable you to use the charm effect on that 
individual, but a fireball could not be 
turned back, and neither could inflict criti- 
cal wounds. 

From seven to ten (1d4+6) spell levels 
are affected by the turning. The DM se- 
cretly rolls the exact number. When a 
spell is turned, the DM subtracts its level 
from the amount of spell turning left. 

When you are targeted by a spell of 
higher level than the amount of spell 
turning you have left, that spell is par- 
tially turned. The DM subtracts the 
amount of spell turning left from the 
spell level of the incoming spell, then 
divides the result by the spell level of the 
incoming spell to see what fraction of the 
effect gets through. For damaging spells, 
you and the caster each take a fraction of 
the damage. For nondamaging spells, 
each of you has a proportional chance to 
be affected. 

For example, if you had three levels of 
spell turning left and were targeted by a 
magic missile spell heightened to 4th level, 
you would turn three-fourths of the spell 
back at the caster. You would take one- 
fourth of the damage, while the caster 
takes three-fourths of the damage. If you 
were targeted by a wizard’s fear spell (also 
a 4th-level spell) in the same situation, 
you would have a one in four (25%) 
chance to be affected by the spell, while 
the caster would have a three in four 
(75%) chance to be affected. 

If you and a spellcasting attacker are 
both warded by spell turning effects in 
operation, a resonating field is created. 
Roll randomly to determine the result. | 


d% Effect 

01-70 Spell drains away without effect. 

71-80 Spell affects both of you equally at 
full effect. 

81-97 Both turning effects are rendered 

nonfunctional for 1d4 minutes. 

Both of you go through a rift into 

another plane. 


98-100 


Arcane Material Component: A small sil- 
ver mirror. 


Spellstaff 


Transmutation 
Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S, F 


Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: Touch 

Target: Wooden quarterstaff touched 

Duration: Permanent until discharged 
(D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You store one spell that you can normally 
_cast in a wooden quarterstaff. Only one 
such spell can be stored in a staff at a 
| given time, and you cannot have more 
\than one spellstaff at any given time. You 

can cast a spell stored within a staff just as 

though it were among those you had pre- 
pared, but it does not count against your 
normal allotment for a given day. You use 
up any applicable material components 
required to cast the spell when you store it 
in the spellstaff. 

Focus: The staff that stores the spell. 


Spider Climb 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch _ 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level —__ ias 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject can climb and travel on verti- 


cal surfaces or even traverse ceilings as_ 


well as a spider does. The affected crea- 
ture must have its hands free to climb in 
this manner. The subject gains a climb 
speed of 20 feet; furthermore, it need not 
make Climb checks to traverse a vertical 
_or horizontal surface (even upside down). 
| A spider climbing creature retains its Dex- 
| terity bonus to Armor Class (if any) while 
| climbing, and opponents get no special 
| bonus to their attacks against it. It can- 
not, however, use the run action while 
climbing. 
Material Component: A drop of bitumen 
and a live spider, both of which must be 
eaten by the subject. 


Spike Growth 
Transmutation 
| Level: Drd 3, Rgr 2 
| Components: V, S DE 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: One 20-ft. square/level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 
Saving Throw: Reflex partial 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Any ground-covering vegetation in the 
spell’s area becomes very hard and sharply 
pointed without changing its appearance. 
In areas of bare earth, roots and rootlets 
act in the same way. Typically, spike growth 


can be cast in any outdoor setting except 
open water, ice, heavy snow, sandy desert, 
or bare stone. Any creature moving on 
foot into or through the spell’s area takes 
1d4 points of piercing damage for each 5 
feet of movement through the spiked 
area. 
Any creature that takes damage from 
this spell must also succeed on a Reflex 
‘save or suffer injuries to its feet and legs 
that slow its land speed by one-half. This 
‘speed penalty lasts for 24 hours or until 
the injured creature receives a cure spell 
(which also restores lost hit points). An- 
other character can remove the penalty by 
taking 10 minutes to dress the injuries 
and succeeding on a Heal check against 
the spell’s save DC. 
Spike growth can't be disabled with the 

Disable Device skill. 

| Note: Magic traps such as spike growth 
lare hard to detect. A rogue (only) can use 
ithe Search skill to find a spike growth. The 
IDC is 25 + spell level, or DC 28 for spike 
{growth (or DC 27 for spike growth cast by a 
(ranger). 


Spike Stones 


Transmutation [Earth] 

Level: Drd 4, Earth 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: One 20-ft. square/level 
Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Reflex partial 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Rocky ground, stone floors, and similar 
surfaces shape themselves into long, 
sharp points that blend into the back- 
ground. Spike stones impede progress 


through an area and deal damage. Any) 


creature moving on foot into or through 
the spell’s area moves at half speed. 

In addition, each creature moving 
through the area takes 1d8 points of pierc- 
ing damage for each 5 feet of movement 
through the spiked area. 

Any creature that takes damage from 
this spell must also succeed on a Reflex 
save to avoid injuries to its feet and legs. A 
failed save causes the creature’s speed to 
be reduced to half normal for 24 hours or 
until the injured creature receives a cure 
spell (which also restores lost hit points). 
Another character can remove the 
penalty by taking 10 minutes to dress the 
injuries and succeeding on a Heal check 
against the spell’s save DC. 

Spike stones is a magic trap that can't be 
disabled with the Disable Device skill. 

Note: Magic traps such as spike stones 
are hard to detect. A rogue (only) can use 
the Search skill to find spike stones. The 
DC is 25 + spell level, or DC 29 for spike 
stones. 


Spiritual Weapon 


Evocation [Force] 

Level: Clr 2, War 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Magic weapon of force 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


A weapon made of pure force springs into 
existence and attacks opponents at a dis- 
tance, as you direct it, dealing 1d8 force 
damage per hit, +1 point per three caster 
levels (maximum +5 at 15th level). The 
weapon takes the shape of a weapon fa- 
vored by your deity or a weapon with 
some spiritual significance or symbolism 
to you (see below) and has the same threat 
range and critical multipliers as a real 
weapon of its form. It strikes the opponent 
you designate, starting with one attack in 
the round the spell is cast and continuing 
each round thereafter on your turn. It uses 
your base attack bonus (possibly allowing 
it multiple attacks per round in subse- 
quent rounds) plus your Wisdom modifier 
as its attack bonus. It strikes as a spell, not 
as a weapon, so, for example, it can damage 
creatures that have damage reduction. Asa 
force effect, it can strike incorporeal crea- 
tures without the normal miss chance 
associated with incorporeality. The 
weapon always strikes from your direc- 
tion. It does not get a flanking bonus or 
help a combatant get one. Your feats (such 
as Weapon Focus) or combat actions (such 
as charge) do not affect the weapon. If the 
weapon goes beyond the spell range, if it 
goes out of your sight, or if you have not 
designated an opponent, the weapon 
returns to you and hovers. 

Each round after the first, you can use a 
move action to redirect the weapon to a 
new target. If you do not, the weapon con- 
tinues to attack the previous round’s 
target. On any round that the weapon 
switches targets, it gets one attack. Sub-, 
sequent rounds of attacking that target, 
allow the weapon to make multiple at-| 
tacks if your base attack bonus would al- 
low it to. Even if the spiritual weapon is a 
ranged weapon, use the spell’s range, not 
the weapon’s normal range increment, and 
switching targets still is a move action. 

A spiritual weapon cannot be attacked or 
harmed by physical attacks, but dispel 
magic, disintegrate, a sphere of annihilation, 
or a rod of cancellation affects it. A spiritual 
weapon's AC against touch attacks is 12 (10 
+ size bonus for Tiny object). 

If an attacked creature has spell resist- 
ance, you make a caster level check (1d20 
+ caster level) against that spell resistance 
the first time the spiritual weapon strikes it. 
If the weapon is successfully resisted, the 


284 


spell is dispelled. If not, the weapon has 
its normal full effect on that creature for 
the duration of the spell. 

The weapon that you get is often a 
force replica of your deity’s own personal 
weapon, many of which have individual 
names. A cleric without a deity gets a 
weapon based on his alignment. A neutral 
cleric without a deity can create a spiritual 

_weapon of any alignment, provided he is, 

‘acting at least generally in accord with 

that alignment at the time. The weapons 

{associated with each deity or alignment 
are as follows. 

Boccob: Quarterstaff, “Staff of Boccob” 

Corellon Larethian: Longsword, “Sahan- 
drian” 

Ehlonna: Longbow, “Jenevier” 

Erythnul: Morningstar, “Agony” 

Fharlanghn: Quarterstaff, “Traveler’s 
Friend” 

Garl Glittergold: Battleaxe, “Arumdina” 

Gruumsh: Spear, “Bloodspear” | 

Heironeous: Longsword, “Justice- 
bringer” | 

Hextor: Flail, “Executioner” 

Kord: Greatsword, “Kelmar” | 

Moradin: Warhammer, “Soulhammer” 

Nerull: Scythe, “Lifecutter” 

Obad-Hai: Quarterstaff, “Stormstouch” 

Olidammara: Rapier, “Swiftstrike” 

Pelor: Heavy mace, “Sunscepter” 

St. Cuthbert: Heavy mace, “The Mace of 
Cuthbert” 

Vecna: Dagger, “Afterthought” 

Wee Jas: Dagger, “Discretion” | 

Yondalla: Short sword or longsword, 
“Hornblade” 

Chaos: Battleaxe, “The Blade of Change” 

Evil: Light flail, “The Scourge of Souls” 

Good: Warhammer, “The Hammer of 

Justice” 
Law: Longsword, “The Sword of Truth” 


Statue 


_Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
| Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


LA statue spell turns the subject to solid 

(stone, along with any garments and 
equipment worn or carried. In statue 
form, the subject gains hardness 8. The 
subject retains its own hit points. 

The subject can see, hear, and smell nor- 
mally, but it does not need to eat or breathe. 
Feeling is limited to those sensations that 
can affect the granite-hard substance of the 
individual’s body. Chipping is equal to a 
mere scratch, but breaking off one of the 
statue's arms constitutes serious damage. 


The subject of a statue spell can return 
to its normal state, act, and then return in- 
stantly to the statue state (a free action) if 
it so desires, as long as the spell duration 
is in effect. 

Material Component: Lime, sand, and a 
drop of water stirred by an iron bar, such 
as a nail or spike. 


Status 


Divination 

Level: Clr 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: One living creature touched/ 
three levels 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


When you need to keep track of com- 
\rades who may get separated, status allows 
lyou to mentally monitor their relative 
[positions and general condition. You are 
laware of direction and distance to the 
creatures and any conditions affecting 
them: unharmed, wounded, disabled, 
staggered, unconscious, dying, nauseated, 
panicked, stunned, poisoned, diseased, 


confused, or the like. Once the spell has. 
been cast upon the subjects, the distance. 
between them and the caster does not 


affect the spell as long as they are on the 


‘same plane of existence. If a subject leaves. 


ithe plane, or if it dies, the spell ceases to 
function for it. 


Stinking Cloud 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Cloud spreads in 20-ft. radius, 
20 ft. high 

Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates; see 
text 

Spell Resistance: No 


Stinking cloud creates a bank of fog like 
that created by fog cloud, except that the 
vapors are nauseating. Living creatures in 
the cloud become nauseated. This condi- 
tion lasts as long as the creature is in the 
cloud and for 1d4+1 rounds after it leaves. 
(Roll separately for each nauseated char- 
acter.) Any creature that succeeds on its 
save but remains in the cloud must con- 
tinue to save each round on your turn. 

Stinking cloud can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. A permanent 
stinking cloud dispersed by wind reforms 
in 10 minutes. 

Material Component: A rotten egg or 
several skunk cabbage leaves. 


Stone Shape 


Transmutation [Earth] 

Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Earth 3, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Stone or stone object touched, 
up to 10 cu. ft. + 1 cu. ft-/level 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can form an existing piece of stone 
into any shape that suits your purpose. 
For example, you can make a stone weap- 
on, a special trapdoor, or a crude idol. 
Stone shape also permits you to reshape a 
stone door to make an exit where one 
didn't exist or to seal a door shut. While 
it’s possible to make crude coffers, doors, 
and so forth with stone shape, fine detail 
isn't possible. There is a 30% chance that 
any shape including moving parts simply 
doesn't work. 

Arcane Material Component: Soft clay, 
which must be worked into roughly the 
desired shape of the stone object and then 
touched to the stone while the verbal 
component is uttered. 


Stone Tell 


Divination 

Level: Drd 6 
Components: V, S, DF 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 min./level 


You gain the ability to speak with stones, 
which relate to you who or what has 
touched them as well as revealing what is 
covered or concealed behind or under 
them. The stones relate complete descrip- 
tions if asked. A stone’s perspective, per- 
ception, and knowledge may prevent the 
stone from providing the details you are 
looking for (as determined by the DM). 
You can speak with natural or worked | 
stone. 


Stone to Flesh 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Target: One petrified creature or a cylin- 
der of stone from 1 ft. to 3 ft. in diame- 
ter and up to 10 ft. long 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
(object); see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell restores a petrified creature to 
its normal state, restoring life and goods. 


The creature must make a DC 15 Forti- 
tude save to survive the process. Any pet- 
rified creature, regardless of size, can be 
restored. 

The spell also can convert a mass of 
stone into a fleshy substance. Such flesh 
is inert and lacking a vital life force un- 
less a life force or magical energy is 
available. (For example, this spell would. 

iturn a stone golem into a flesh golem, 
| but an ordinary statue would become a 
| corpse.) You can affect an object that fits 

| within a cylinder from 1 foot to 3 feet in 
diameter and up to 10 feet long or a 
cylinder of up to those dimensions in a 
larger mass of stone. 

Material Component: A pinch of earth 
and a drop of blood. 


Stoneskin 

Abjuration z 

Level: Drd 5, Earth 6, Sor/Wiz 4, 
Strength 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level or until 
discharged 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The warded creature gains resistance to 
blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes. The subject 
gains damage reduction 10/adamantine. (It 
ignores the first 10 points of damage each 
time it takes damage from a weapon, 
though an adamantine weapon bypasses the 
reduction.) Once the spell has prevented a 
total of 10 points of damage per caster level 
(maximum 150 points), it is discharged. 
| Material Component: Granite and 250 gp 
| worth of diamond dust sprinkled on the 
| target's skin. 


Storm of Vengeance 
Conjuration (Summoning) 
Level: Drd 9, Clr 9 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Effect: 360-ft.-radius storm cloud 
Duration: Concentration (maximum 10 
rounds) (D) a 
| Saving Throw: See text __ 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 
| 
This spell creates an enormous black 
storm cloud. Lightning and crashing 
claps of thunder appear within the storm. 
Each creature beneath the cloud must 
succeed on a Fortitude save or be deaf- 
ened for 1d4x10 minutes. 

If you do not maintain concentration 
on the spell after casting it, the spell ends. 
If you continue to concentrate, the spell 
generates additional effects in each fol- 


lowing round, as noted below. Each effect 
occurs during your turn. 

2nd Round: Acid rains down in the area, 
dealing 1d6 points of acid damage (no 
save). 

3rd Round: You call six bolts of light- 
ning down from the cloud. You decide 
where the bolts strike. No two bolts may 
be directed at the same target. Each bolt 


‘deals 10d6 points of electricity damage. A 


creature struck can attempt a Reflex save 


for half damage. 


4th Round: Hailstones rain down in the 
area, dealing 5dé points of bludgeoning 
damage (no save). 

Sth through 10th Rounds: Violent rain 
and wind gusts reduce visibility. The rain 
obscures all sight, including darkvision, 
beyond 5 feet. A creature 5 feet away has 
concealment (attacks have a 20% miss 


chance). Creatures farther away have total 
‘concealment (50% miss chance, and the 
‘attacker cannot use sight to locate the 
(target). Speed is reduced by three-quar- 
|ters. Ranged attacks within the area of the 
[storm are impossible. Spells cast within 
the area are disrupted unless the caster 


succeeds on a Concentration check 
against a DC equal to the storm of ven- 
geance’s save DC + the level of the spell the 
caster is trying to cast. 


Suggestion | 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language- 


Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 


Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, M 


Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One living creature 

Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
completed _ 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You influence the actions of the target 
creature by suggesting a course of activity 
(limited to a sentence or two). The sug- 
gestion must be worded in such a manner 
as to make the activity sound reasonable. 
Asking the creature to stab itself, throw 
itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do 
some other obviously harmful act auto- 
matically negates the effect of the spell. 
However, a suggestion that a pool of acid is 
actually pure water and that a quick dip 
would be refreshing is another matter. 
Urging a red dragon to stop attacking 
your party so that the dragon and party 
could jointly loot a rich treasure else- 
where is likewise a reasonable use of the 
spell’s power. 

The suggested course of activity can 
continue for the entire duration, such as 
in the case of the red dragon mentioned 
above. If the suggested activity can be 
completed in a shorter time, the spell 


ends when the subject finishes what it 
was asked to do. You can instead specify 
conditions that will trigger a special ac- 
tivity during the duration. For example, 
you might suggest that a noble knight 
give her warhorse to the first beggar she 
meets. If the condition is not met before 
the spell duration expires, the activity is | 
not performed. | 

A very reasonable suggestion causes the | 
save to be made with a penalty (such as —4 
or —2) at the discretion of the DM. 

Material Component: A snake's tongue 
and either a bit of honeycomb or a drop of 
sweet oil. 


Suggestion, Mass 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Language- 
Dependent, Mind-Affecting] 

Level: Brd 5, Sor/Wiz 6 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Targets: One creature/level, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like suggestion, except 
that it can affect more creatures. The same 
suggestion applies to all these creatures. 


Summon Instrument 


Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Brd 0 

‘Components: V, S 

‘Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: One summoned handheld musi- 
cal instrument 

Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell summons one handheld musi- 

cal instrument of your choice. This in- 

strument appears in your hands or at your 

feet (your choice). The instrument is typi- 

cal for its type. Only one instrument 

appears per casting, and it will play only 

for you. You can't summon an instrument 

too large to be held in two hands (such as 

a harp, piano, harpsichord, alphorn, or. 
pipe organ). 


Summon Monster I 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Brd 1, Clr 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, F/DF 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One summoned creature 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell summons an extraplanar crea- 
ture (typically an outsider, elemental, or 
magical beast native to another plane). It 
appears where you designate and acts 
immediately, on your turn. It attacks 


Mialee summons a couatl. 


your opponents to the best of its ability. 
If you can communicate with the crea- 
ture, you can direct it not to attack, to 
attack particular enemies, or to perform 
other actions. 

The spell conjures one of the creatures 
from the tst-level list on the accompany- 
ing Summon Monster table. You choose 
which kind of creature to summon, and 
you can change that choice each time you 
cast the spell. Information on these crea- 
tures can be found in the Monster Manual. 

A summoned monster cannot sum- 
mon or otherwise conjure another crea- 
ture, nor can it use any teleportation or 
planar travel abilities. Creatures cannot be 
summoned into an environment that 
cannot support them. For instance, a ce- 
lestial porpoise may only be summoned 
in an aquatic environment. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. For example, summon monster 
Tis a lawful and evil spell when cast to 
summon a fiendish dire rat. 

Arcane Focus: A tiny bag and a small (not 
necessarily lit) candle. 


Summon Monster IJ 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 
I, except that you can summon one crea- 
ture from the 2nd-level list or 1d3 crea- 
tures of the same kind from the 1st-level 
list. 


Summon Monster III 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Brd 3, Clr 3, Sor/Wiz 3 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 
I, except that you can summon one crea- 
ture from the 3rd-level list, 1d3 creatures 
of the same kind from the 2nd-level list, 
or 1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from 
the 1st-level list. 


Summon Monster IV 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Brd 4, Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 4 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 
I, except that you can summon one crea- 
ture from the 4th-level list, 1d3 creatures 
of the same kind from the 3rd-level list, or 
1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 
lower-level list. 


Summon Monster V 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Brd 5, Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 
I, except that you can summon one crea- 
ture from the 5th-level list, 1d3 creatures 
of the same kind from the 4th-level list, or 
1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 
lower-level list. 


Summon Monster VI 

Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Brd 6, Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 
I, except you can summon one creature 
from the 6th-level list, 1d3 creatures of 
| the same kind from the Sth-level list, or 
| 1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 
lower-level list. 


SUMMON MONSTER 


Summon Monster VII 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 


|I, except that you can summon one crea- 


ture from the 7th-level list, 1d3 creatures 
of the same kind from the 6th-level list, or 
1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 
lower-level list. 


Summon Monster VIII 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Clr 8, Sor/Wiz 8 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster | 
I, except that you can summon one crea- | 
ture from the 8th-level list, 1d3 creatures 

of the same kind from the 7th-level list, or 

1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 

lower-level list. 


Fiendish snake, Large viper CE Fiendish monstrous spider, Huge CE 
Ist Level Fiendish wolverine GE Fiendish snake, giant constrictor GE 
Celestial dog LG 
Celestial owl LG 4th Level 7th Level 
Celestial giant fire beetle NG Archon, lantern LG Celestial elephant LG 
Celestial porpoise’ NG Celestial giant owl LG Avoral (guardinal) NG 
Celestial badger CG Celestial giant eagle CG Celestial baleen whale! NG 
Celestial monkey CG Celestial lion CG Djinni (genie) CG 
Fiendish dire rat LE Mephit (any) N Elemental, Huge (any) N 
Fiendish raven LE ‘Fiendish dire wolf LE Invisible stalker N 
Fiendish monstrous centipede, NE Fiendish giant wasp LE Slaad, red CN 
Medium Fiendish giant praying mantis NE Devil, bone LE 
Fiendish monstrous scorpion, NE Fiendish shark, Large! NE Fiendish megaraptor [WE 
Small Yeth hound NE Fiendish monstrous scorpion, Huge NE 
Fiendish hawk GE Fiendish monstrous spider, Large GE Babau (demon) CE 
Fiendish monstrous spider, Small CE Fiendish snake, Huge viper CE Fiendish giant octopus! CE 
Fiendish octopus! GE Howler GE Fiendish girallon GE 
Fiendish snake, Small viper CE | 
5th Level 8th Level 
2nd Level Archon, hound LG Celestial dire bear LG 
Celestial giant bee LG Celestial brown bear LG Celestial cachalot whale’ NG 
Celestial giant bombardier beetle NG Celestial giant stag beetle NG Celestial triceratops NG 
Celestial riding dog NG Celestial sea cat! NG Lillend CG 
Celestial eagle CG Celestial griffon CG Elemental, greater (any) N 
Lemure (devil) IE Elemental, Medium (any) N Slaad, blue CN 
Fiendish squid’? LE Achaierai BE Fiendish giant squid! LE 
‚Fiendish wolf LE Devil, bearded LE Hellcat LE 
‘Fiendish monstrous centipede, NE Fiendish deinonychus LE Fiendish monstrous centipede, NE 
Large Fiendish dire ape LE Colossal 
|Fiendish monstrous scorpion, NE Fiendish dire boar NE Fiendish dire tiger CE 
Medium Fiendish shark, Huge NE Fiendish monstrous spider, GE 
Fiendish shark, Medium! NE Fiendish monstrous scorpion, NE Gargantuan 
Fiendish monstrous spider, GE Large Fiendish tyrannosaurus CE 
Medium Shadow mastiff NE Vrock (demon) CE 
Fiendish snake, Medium viper CE Fiendish dire wolverine GE | 
Fiendish giant crocodile CE 9th Level 
3rd Level Fiendish tiger GE Couatl LG 
Celestial black bear LG Leonal (guardinal) NG 
Celestial bison NG 6th Level Celestial roc CG 
{Celestial dire badger CG Celestial polar bear LG Elemental, elder (any) N 
(Celestial hippogriff CG Celestial orca whale’ NG Slaad, green CN 
|Elemental, Small (any) N Bralani (eladrin) CG Devil, barbed LE 
Fiendish ape LE Celestial dire lion CG Fiendish dire shark’ NE 
Fiendish dire weasel LE Elemental, Large (any) N Fiendish monstrous scorpion, NE 
Hell hound LE Janni (genie) N Gargantuan 
Fiendish snake, constrictor LE Chaos beast CN Night hag NE 
Fiendish boar NE Devil, chain LE Bebilith (demon) CE 
Fiendish dire bat NE Xill LE Fiendish monstrous spider, Colossal CE 
Fiendish monstrous centipede, NE Fiendish monstrous centipede, NE Hezrou (demon) CE 
Huge Gargantuan 
Fiendish crocodile CE Fiendish rhinoceros NE 1 May be summoned only into an aquatic or 
Dretch (demon) CE Fiendish elasmosaurus! CE watery environment. 


287 


. 


Summon Monster IX 3rd-level creature, 1d3 2nd-level creatures Summon Nature's Ally IV 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text for 
summon monster I] 

Level: Chaos 9, Clr 9, Evil 9, Good 9, 
Law 9, Sor/Wiz 9 

Effect: One or more summoned crea- 
tures, no two of which can be more 
than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon monster 

I, except that you can summon one crea- 

ture from the 9th-level list, 1d3 creatures 

lof the same kind from the 8th-level list, or 
1d4+1 creatures of the same kind from a 
lower-level list. 


Summon Nature’s Ally I 
Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Drd 1, Rgr 1 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One summoned creature 
Duration: 1 round/level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell summons a natural creature. It 
appears where you designate and acts 
immediately, on your turn. It attacks your 
opponents to the best of its ability. If you 
can communicate with the creature, you 
can direct it to perform other actions. 
A summoned monster cannot summon 
or otherwise conjure another creature, nor 
can it use any teleportation or planar travel 
abilities. Creatures cannot be summoned. 
into an environment that cannot support 
them. For instance, a porpoise may only be 
summoned in an aquatic environment. 
___ The spell conjures one of the creatures 
| from the 1st-level list on the accompanying 
| Summon Nature's Ally table. You choose 
| which kind of creature to summon, and 
| you can change that choice each time you 
cast the spell. All the creatures on the table 
are neutral unless otherwise noted. 


Summon Nature’s Ally H 

Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Drd 2, Rgr 2 

Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


| This spell functions like summon nature’s 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
| 2nd-level creature or 1d3 1st-level crea- 
tures of the same kind. 


Summon Nature’s Ally IH 

Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 

Level: Drd 3, Rgr 3 

Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one 


of the same kind, or 1d4+1 1st-level crea- 
tures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. For example, summon nature's 
ally III is an evil and fire spell when you 
cast it to summon a salamander. 


SUMMON Nature’s ALLY 


Ist Level 

Dire rat 

Eagle (animal) 

Monkey (animal) 

Octopus! (animal) 

Owl (animal) 

Porpoise! (animal) 

Snake, Small viper (animal) 
Wolf (animal) 


2nd Level 

Bear, black (animal) 
Crocodile (animal) 

Dire badger 

Dire bat 

Elemental, Small (any) 
Hippogriff 

Shark, Medium! (animal) 
Snake, Medium viper (animal) 
Squid! (animal) 
Wolverine (animal) 


3rd Level 

Ape (animal) 

Dire weasel 

Dire wolf 

Eagle, giant [NG] 

Lion 

Owl, giant [NG] 

Satyr [CN; without pipes] 
Shark, Large’ (animal) 
Snake, constrictor (animal) 
Snake, Large viper (animal) 
Thoqqua 


4th Level 

Arrowhawk, juvenile 

Bear, brown (animal) 
Crocodile, giant (animal) 
Deinonychus (dinosaur) 
Dire ape 

Dire boar 

Dire wolverine 

Elemental, Medium (any) 
Salamander, flamebrother [NE] 
Sea cat! 

Shark, Huge! (animal) 
Snake, Huge viper (animal) 
Tiger (animal) 

Tojanida, juvenile! 

Unicorn [CG] 

Xorn, minor 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 

Level: Animal 4, Drd 4, Rgr 4 

Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one | 
4th-level creature, 1d3 3rd-level creatures | 


5th Level 

Arrowhawk, adult 

Bear, polar (animal) 

Dire lion 

Elasmosaurus’ (dinosaur) 
Elemental, Large (any) 
Griffon 

Janni (genie) 

Rhinoceros (animal) 
Satyr [CN; with pipes] 
Snake, giant constrictor (animal) 
Nixie (sprite) 

Tojanida, adult! 

Whale, orca’ (animal) 


6th Level 

Dire bear 

Elemental, Huge (any) 

Elephant (animal) 

Girallon 

Megaraptor (dinosaur) 

Octopus, giant! (animal) 

Pixie* (sprite) [NG; no special arrows] 
Salamander, average [NE] 

Whale, baleen! 

Xorn, average 

*Can’t cast Otto’s irresistible dance 


7th Level 

Arrowhawk, elder 

Dire tiger 

Elemental, greater (any) 

Djinni (genie) [NG] 

Invisible stalker 

Pixie* (sprite) [NG; with sleep arrows] 
Squid, giant! (animal) 

Triceratops (dinosaur) 
Tyrannosaurus (dinosaur) 

Whale, cachalot! (animal) 

Xorn, elder 

*Can’t cast Otto’s irresistible dance 


8th Level 

Dire shark! 

Roc 

Salamander, noble [NE] 
Tojanida, elder 


9th Level 

Elemental, elder 

Grig [NG; with fiddle] (sprite) 

Pixie* (sprite) [NG; with sleep and memory 
loss arrows] 

Unicorn, celestial charger 

*Can cast Otto’s irresistible dance 


1 May be summoned only into an aquatic or watery environment. 


of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. 


Summon Nature’s Ally V 
Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Drd 5 | 
| Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
5th-level creature, 1d3 4th-level creatures 
of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. 


Summon Nature’s Ally VI 
Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Drd 6 | 
Effect: One or more creatures, no two of | 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature’s 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
6th-level creature, 1d3 5th-level creatures 
of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. 


Summon Nature’s Ally VII 
_Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 

| Level: Drd 7 _ 

| Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
| which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


[This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
7th-level creature, 1d3 6th-level creatures 
of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 

_of that type. a 

Summon Nature’s Ally VIII 

| Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 
Level: Animal 8, Drd 8 
Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 

which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
8th-level creature, 1d3 7th-level creatures 
of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 


summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. 


Summon Nature’s Ally IX 


Conjuration (Summoning) [see text] 

Level: Drd 9 

Effect: One or more creatures, no two of 
which can be more than 30 ft. apart 


This spell functions like summon nature's 
ally I, except that you can summon one 
9th-level creature, 1d3 8th-level creatures 
of the same kind, or 1d4+1 lower-level 
creatures of the same kind. 

When you use a summoning spell to 
summon an air, chaotic, earth, evil, fire, 
good, lawful, or water creature, it is a spell 
of that type. 


Summon Swarm 


\Conjuration (Summoning) 
‘Level: Brd 2, Drd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 
‘Components: V, S, M/DF 
{Casting Time: 1 round 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One swarm of bats, rats, or 
spiders 
Duration: Concentration + 2 rounds 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


You summon a swarm of bats, rats, or spi- 


ders (your choice), which attacks all other 


creatures within its area. (You may. 


summon the swarm so that it shares the 
area of other creatures.) If no living crea- 
tures are within its area, the swarm at- 
tacks or pursues the nearest creature as 
best it can. The caster has no control over 
its target or direction of travel. 

See the Monster Manual for details of 
bat, rat, and spider swarms. 


Arcane Material Component: A square of 


red cloth. 


Sunbeam 


Evocation [Light] 

Level: Drd 7, Sun 7 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 60 ft. 

Area: Line from your hand 

Duration: 1 round/level or until all 
beams are exhausted 

Saving Throw: Reflex negates and 
Reflex half; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


For the duration of this spell, you can use 
a standard action to evoke a dazzling 
beam of intense light each round. You can 
call forth one beam per three caster levels 
(maximum six beams at 18th level). The 
spell ends when its duration runs out or 
your allotment of beams is exhausted. 

Each creature in the beam is blinded 


and takes 4dé points of damage. Any crea- 
tures to which sunlight is harmful or 
unnatural take double damage. A success- 
ful Reflex save negates the blindness and 
reduces the damage by half. 

An undead creature caught within the 
beam takes 1d6 points of damage per cast- 


er level (maximum 20d6), or half damage | 
if a Reflex save is successful. In addition, | 
the beam results in the destruction of any | 


undead creature specifically harmed by 
bright light (such as a vampire) if it fails 
its save. 

The ultraviolet light generated by the 
spell deals damage to fungi, mold, oozes, 
and slimes just as if they were undead 
creatures. 


Sunburst 


Evocation [Light] 

Level: Drd 8, Sor/Wiz 8, Sun 8 
Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area: 80-ft.-radius burst 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Reflex partial; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


Sunburst causes a globe of searing radi- 
ance to explode silently from a point you 
select. All creatures in the globe are 
blinded and take 6d6 points of damage. A 
creature to which sunlight is harmful or 
unnatural takes double damage. A suc- 
cessful Reflex save negates the blindness 
and reduces the damage by half. 

An undead creature caught within the 
globe takes 1d6 points of damage per 
caster level (maximum 25d6), or half 
damage if a Reflex save is successful. In 
addition, the burst results in the destruc- 
tion of any undead creature specifically 
harmed by bright light (such as a vam- 
pire) if it fail its save. 

The ultraviolet light generated by the 
spell deals damage to fungi, mold, oozes, 
and slimes just as if they were undead 
creatures. 


Sunburst dispels any darkness spells of | 


lower than 9th level within its area. 


Arcane Material Component: A piece of. 


sunstone and a naked flame. 


Symbol of Death 


Necromancy [Death] 

Level: Clr 8, Sor/Wiz 8 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: 0 ft.; see text 

Effect: One symbol 

Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell allows you to scribe a potent 
rune of power upon a surface. When trig- 


289 


. 


290 


gered, a symbol of death slays one or more 
creatures within 60 feet of the symbol 
(treat as a burst) whose combined total 
current hit points do not exceed 150. The 
symbol of death affects the closest crea- 
tures first, skipping creatures with too 
many hit points to affect. Once triggered, 
the symbol becomes active and glows, last- 
ing for 10 minutes per caster level or 
_until it has affected 150 hit points’ worth, 
of creatures, whichever comes first. Any 
creature that enters the area while the 
| symbol of death is active is subject to its 
effect, whether or not that creature was 
in the area when it was triggered. A crea- 
ture need save against the symbol only 
once as long as it remains within the area, 
though if it leaves the area and returns 
while the symbol is still active, it must 
save again. 

Until it is triggered, the symbol of death 
is inactive (though visible and legible at a 
distance of 60 feet). To be effective, a sym- 
bol of death must always be placed in plain 
sight and in a prominent location. Cover- 
ing or hiding the rune renders the symbol 
of death ineffective, unless a creature re- 
moves the covering, in which case the 
symbol of death works normally. 

As a default, a symbol of death is trig- 
gered whenever a creature does one or 
more of the following, as you select: looks 
at the rune; reads the rune; touches the 
rune; passes over the rune; or passes 


through a portal bearing the rune. Re- 


gardless of the trigger method or methods 

chosen, a creature more than 60 feet from, 

a symbol of death can't trigger it (even if it 

meets one or more of the triggering con- 

ditions, such as reading the rune). Once 
_the spell is cast, a symbol of death's trigger- 
ling conditions cannot be changed. 

In this case, “reading” the rune means 
lany attempt to study it, identify it, or 
fathom its meaning. Throwing a cover 
‘over a symbol of death to render it inopera- 

tive triggers it if the symbol reacts to 
touch. You can't use a symbol of death 
offensively; for instance, a touch-trig- 
gered symbol of death remains untrig- 
gered if an item bearing the symbol of 
death is used to touch a creature. Like- 
wise, a symbol of death cannot be placed on 
|a weapon and set to activate when the 
| weapon strikes a foe. =a 
| You can also set special triggering limi- 
| tations of your own. These can be as sim- 
ple or elaborate as you desire. Special con- 
ditions for triggering a symbol of death can 
be based on a creature’s name, identity, or 
alignment, but otherwise must be based 
on observable actions or qualities. Intan- 
gibles such as level, class, Hit Dice, and 
hit points don't qualify. For example, a 
symbol of death can be set to activate when 
a lawful good creature approaches, but 
not when a paladin approaches. 


When scribing a symbol of death, you 
can specify a password or phrase that pre- 
vents a creature using it from triggering 
the effect. Anyone using the password re- 
mains immune to that particular rune’s 
effects so long as the creature remains 
within 60 feet of the rune. If the creature 
leaves the radius and returns later, it must 
use the password again. 
| You also can attune any number of crea- 
tures to the symbol of death, but doing this can 
extend the casting time. Attuning one or 
‘two creatures takes negligible time, and 
attuning a small group (as many as ten crea- 
tures) extends the casting time to 1 hour. 
Attuning a large group (as many as twenty- 
five creatures) takes 24 hours. Attuning 
larger groups takes proportionately longer, 
as the DM sees fit. Any creature attuned to a 
symbol of death cannot trigger it and is 
immune to its effects, even if within its 
\radius when triggered. You are automatically 
\considered attuned to your own symbols of 
\death, and thus always ignore the effects and 
cannot inadvertently trigger them. 
| Read magic allows you to identify a sym- 
bol of death with a DC 19 Spellcraft check. 
‘Of course, if the symbol of death is set to be 
triggered by reading it, this will trigger 
the symbol. 


A symbol of death can be removed by a 
successful dispel magic targeted solely on, 
the rune. An erase spell has no effect on a! 


symbol of death. Destruction of the surface 


where a symbol of death is inscribed de- 


stroys the symbol but also triggers it. 
Symbol of death can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. A permanent 
symbol of death that is disabled or that has 
affected its maximum number of hit 
points becomes inactive for 10 minutes, 
then can be triggered again as normal. 


Note: Magic traps such as symbol of death | 


are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of death and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 33 for symbol of death. 

Material Component: Mercury and phos- 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 


Symbol of Fear 


Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Saving Throw: Will negates 


This spell functions like symbol of death, 
except that all creatures within 60 feet of 
the symbol of fear instead become panicked 
for 1 round per caster level. 

Note: Magic traps such as symbol of fear 
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of fear and Disable Device to thwart 
it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell level, 
or 31 for symbol of fear. 


Material Component: Mercury and phos- 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 1,000 gp. 


Symbol of Insanity 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Clr 8, Sor/Wiz 8 

Saving Throw: Will negates 


This spell functions like symbol of death, 
except that all creatures within the radius 
of the symbol of insanity instead become 
permanently insane (as the insanity spell). 

Unlike symbol of death, symbol of insan- 
ity has no hit point limit; once triggered, a 
symbol of insanity simply remains active 
for 10 minutes per caster level. 

Note: Magic traps such as symbol of 
insanity are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find a symbol of insanity and Disable 
Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 
25 + spell level, or 33 for symbol of insanity. 

Material Component: Mercury and phos- 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 


Symbol of Pain 


Necromancy [Evil] 
Level: Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 5 


This spell functions like symbol of death, 
except that each creature within the radius 
of a symbol of pain instead suffers wracking 
pains that impose a —4 penalty on attack 
rolls, skill checks, and ability checks. These 
effects last for 1 hour after the creature 
moves farther than 60 feet from the symbol. 

Unlike symbol of death, symbol of pain has 
no hit point limit; once triggered, a symbol 
of pain simply remains active for 10 min- 
utes per caster level. 

Note: Magic traps such as symbol of pain 
are hard to detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to find a 
symbol of pain and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 30 for symbol of pain. j 
| Material Component: Mercury and phos- | 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal | 
with a total value of at least 1,000 gp. 


Symbol of Persuasion 


Enchantment (Charm) [Mind-Affecting] 
Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Saving Throw: Will negates 


This spell functions like symbol of death, 
except that all creatures within the radius 
of a symbol of persuasion instead become 
charmed by the caster (as the charm mon- 
ster spell) for 1 hour per caster level. 

Unlike symbol of death, symbol of persua- 
sion has no hit point limit; once triggered, 
a symbol of persuasion simply remains ac- 
tive for 10 minutes per caster level. 


’ Ar a or - s> <ra f -- q = ` b- S a m > S ~~ * 
<A" = ei Kot AS +s 2a Bie? nF SE N ~ ry. :? in} oo 25 P: a 


m 
m ae 


Note: Magic traps such as symbol of per- 
suasion are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to find 
a symbol of persuasion and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + spell 
level, or 31 for symbol of persuasion. 

Material Component: Mercury and phos- 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 


25 + spell level, or 32 for symbol of stunning. 

Material Component: Mercury and phos- 
phorus, plus powdered diamond and opal 
with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 


Symbol of Weakness 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7 


This spell functions like symbol of death, 


Symbol of Sleep except that every creature within 60 feet 
Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- of a symbol of weakness instead suffers crip- 
Affecting] pling weakness that deals 3d6 points of 
Level: Clr 5, Sor/Wiz 5 Strength damage. 
Saving Throw: Will negates i Unlike symbol of death, symbol of weakness 


has no hit point limit; once triggered, a 
symbol of weakness simply remains active for 
10 minutes per caster level. 

Note: Magic traps such as symbol of 
weakness are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find a symbol of weakness and Disable 
Device to thwart it. The DC in each 

case is 25 + spell level, or 32 for 
symbol of weakness. 

Material Component: Mercury 
and phosphorus, plus powdered 
diamond and opal with a total 
value of at least 5,000 gp. 


This spell functions like symbol of 
death, except that all creatures of 10 
HD or less within 60 feet of the symbol of 
sleep instead fall into a catatonic slumber 
for 3d6x10 minutes. Unlike with the 
sleep spell, sleeping creatures cannot be 
awakened by nonmagical 
means before this time 
expires. 

Unlike symbol of death, 
symbol of sleep has no hit 
point limit; once triggered, 

a symbol of sleep simply 
remains active for 10 min- 
utes per caster level. 

Note: Magic traps such as 
symbol of sleep are hard to 
detect and disable. A rogue 
(only) can use the Search skill to 
find a symbol of sleep and Disable 
Device to thwart it. The DC in 
each case is 25 + spell level, or 30 
for symbol of sleep. 

Material Component: Mercury 
and phosphorus, plus pow- 
dered diamond and opal aý 
with a total value of at 
least 1,000 gp. 


Sympathetic 
Vibration 
Evocation [Sonic] 
Level: Brd 6 
Components: V, S, F 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 
Range: Touch 
Target: One freestanding structure 
Duration: Up to 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


By attuning yourself to a freestanding 
structure such as a building, bridge, 
or dam, you can create a damaging 
vibration within it. Once it begins, 


Symbol of Stunning 


Enchantment the vibration deals 2d10 points of 
(Compulsion) damage per round to the target 
[Mind-Affecting] structure. (Hardness has no effect 


Level: Clr 7, Sor/Wiz 7 
Saving Throw: Will 
negates 


on the spell’s damage.) You can 
choose at the time of casting to 
limit the duration of the spell; 
otherwise it lasts for 1 round/ 
level. If the spell is cast upon a 
target that is not freestanding, 
such as a hillside, the sur- 
rounding stone dissipates the 
effect and no damage occurs. 

Sympathetic vibration cannot 
| affect creatures (including con- 
S94) structs). Since a structure is an 
| unattended object, it gets no 
saving throw to resist the 
effect. 

Focus: A tuning fork. 


This spell functions like 

symbol of death, except that 

all creatures within 60 

feet of a symbol of stun- 

ning instead become o 

stunned for 1d6 rounds. A | i 
Note: Magic traps such as LAL VA 

symbol of stunning are hard to y z an 

detect and disable. A rogue yA 000 

(only) can use the Search skill to 

find a symbol of stunning and Disable 

Device to thwart it. The DC in each case is 


À 


Jozan casts symbol of pain. 


ot a ae, N 
?. ug Nna? — . rey ae ee ae Y 

: Se a ae ee n R Sp 
s AEN oe “as * 2/4 i On Pea N Sr Ai N 4 Ş We a H at 


292) 


Sympathy 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Drd 9, Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 hour 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One location (up to a 10-ft. 
cube/level) or one object 

| Duration: 2 hours/level (D) 

| Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You cause an object or location to emanate 
magical vibrations that attract either a spe- 
cific kind of intelligent creature or crea- 
tures of a particular alignment, as defined 
by you. The particular kind of creature to 
be affected must be named specifically— 
for example, red dragons, hill giants, wer- 
erats, lammasus, or vampires. A creature 
subtype (such as goblinoid) is not specific 
enough. Likewise, the specific alignment 
must be named—for example, chaotic evil, 
chaotic good, lawful neutral, or neutral, 
Creatures of the specified kind or align- 
ment feel elated and pleased to be in the 
area or desire to touch or to possess the 
object. The compulsion to stay in the area 
or touch the object is overpowering. If the 
save is successful, the creature is released 
from the enchantment, but a subsequent 
save must be made 1d6x10 minutes later. 
If this save fails, the affected creature 
attempts to return to the area or object. 
Sympathy counters and dispels antipathy. 
Material Component: 1,500 gp worth of 
crushed pearls and a drop of honey. 


Tasha’s Hideous Laughter 


| Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
| Affecting] _ 
| Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 2 
|Components: V, S, M 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Target: One creature; see text 
Duration: 1 round/level 
Saving Throw: Will negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell afflicts the subject with uncon- 
trollable laughter. It collapses into gales of 
manic laughter, falling prone. The subject 
| can take no actions while laughing, but is 
[not considered helpless. After the spell 
| ends, it can act normally. 
A creature with an Intelligence score of 
2 or lower is not affected. A creature 
whose type (such as humanoid or dragon) 
is different from the caster’s receives a +4 
bonus on its saving throw, because humor 
doesn't “translate” well. 
Material Component: Tiny tarts that are 
thrown at the target and a feather that is 
waved in the air. 


Telekinesis 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Target or Targets: See text 

Duration: Concentration (up to 1 
round/ level) or instantaneous; 

| see text 

‘Saving Throw: Will negates (object) or 
None; see text 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes (object); see text 


You move objects or creatures by concen- 
trating on them. Depending on the ver- 
sion selected, the spell can provide a 
gentle, sustained force, perform a variety 
of combat maneuvers, or exert a single 
short, violent thrust. 

Sustained Force: A sustained force moves 
‘an object weighing no more than 25 
(pounds per caster level (maximum 375 
\pounds at 15th level) up to 20 feet per 
round. A creature can negate the effect on 
lan object it possesses with a successful 
Will save or with spell resistance. 
| This version of the spell can last 1 
round per caster level, but it ends if you 
cease concentration. The weight can be 


moved vertically, horizontally, or in both. 
directions. An object cannot be moved. 
beyond your range. The spell ends if the! 


object is forced beyond the range. If you 


‘cease concentration for any reason, the 


object falls or stops. 

__An object can be telekinetically man- 
ipulated as if with one hand. For example, 
a lever or rope can be pulled, a key can be 
turned, an object rotated, and so on, if the 
force required is within the weight limita- 
tion. You might even be able to untie 


simple knots, though delicate activities, 


such as these require Intelligence checks 
against a DC set by the DM. 

Combat Maneuver: Alternatively, once 
per round, you can use telekinesis to per- 
form a bull rush, disarm, grapple (includ- 
ing pin), or trip. Resolve these attempts as 
normal, except that they don't provoke at- 
tacks of opportunity, you use your caster 
level in place of your base attack bonus 
(for disarm and grapple), you use your In- 
telligence modifier (if a wizard) or Cha- 
risma modifier (if a sorcerer) in place of 
your Strength or Dexterity modifier, and 
a failed attempt doesn't allow a reactive 
attempt by the target (such as for disarm 
or trip). No save is allowed against these 
attempts, but spell resistance applies nor- 
mally. This version of the spell can last 1 
round per caster level, but it ends if you 
cease concentration. 

Violent Thrust: Alternatively, the spell 
energy can be spent ina single round. You 
can hurl one object or creature per caster 


level (maximum 15) that are within range 
and all within 10 feet of each other toward 
any target within 10 feet per level of all 
the objects. You can hurl up to a total 
weight of 25 pounds per caster level (max- 
imum 375 pounds at 15th level). 

You must succeed on attack rolls (one 
per creature or object thrown) to hit the | 
target with the items, using your base) 
attack bonus + your Intelligence modifier | 
(if a wizard) or Charisma modifier (if a 
sorcerer). Weapons cause standard dam- 
age (with no Strength bonus; note that 
arrows or bolts deal damage as daggers of 
their size when used in this manner). 
Other objects cause damage ranging from 
1 point per 25 pounds (for less dangerous 
objects such as a barrel) to 1d6 points of 
damage per 25 pounds (for hard, dense 
objects such as a boulder). 

Creatures who fall within the weight 
capacity of the spell can be hurled, but 
they are allowed Will saves (and spell re- 
sistance) to negate the effect, as are those 
whose held possessions are targeted by the 
spell. If a telekinesed creature is hurled 
against a solid surface, it takes damage as if 
it had fallen 10 feet (1d6 points). 


Teleport 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5, Travel 5 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Personal and touch 

Target: You and touched objects or other 
touched willing creatures 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None and Will negates 
(object) 

Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object) 


This spell instantly transports you to a 
designated destination, which may be as 
distant as 100 miles per caster level. Inter- 
planar travel is not possible. You can bring 
along objects as long as their weight 
doesn't exceed your maximum load. You 
may also bring one additional willing 
Medium or smaller creature (carrying | 
gear or objects up to its maximum load) or | 
its equivalent (see below) per three caster 
levels. A Large creature counts as two Me- 
dium creatures, a Huge creature counts as 
two Large creatures, and so forth. All crea- 
tures to be transported must be in contact 
with one another, and at least one of those 
creatures must be in contact with you. As 
with all spells where the range is personal 
and the target is you, you need not make a 
saving throw, nor is spell resistance appli- 
cable to you. Only objects held or in use 
(attended) by another person receive 
saving throws and spell resistance. 

You must have some clear idea of the 
location and layout of the destination. 


You can't simply teleport to the warlord’s 
tent if you don’t know where that tent is, 
what it looks like, or what’s in it. The 
clearer your mental image, the more like- 
ly the teleportation works. Areas of 
strong physical or magical energy may 
make teleportation more hazardous or 
even impossible. | 
To see how well the teleportation 

| works, roll d% and consult the Teleport 
table. Refer to the following information 
| for definitions of the terms on the table. 
Familiarity: “Very familiar” is a place 
where you have been very often and 
where you feel at home. “Studied care- 
fully” is a place you know well, either be- 
cause you can currently see it, you've been 
there often, or you have used other means 
(such as scrying) to study the place for at 
least one hour. “Seen casually” is a place 
that you have seen more than once but 
with which you are not very familiar. 


“Viewed once” is a place that you have 


seen once, possibly using magic. | 
“False destination” is a place that does 
not truly exist, such as if you scryed on an 
enemy’s sanctum but instead viewed a 
false vision, or if you are teleporting to an 
otherwise familiar location that no long- 
er exists as such or has been so com- 
pletely altered as to no longer be familiar 
to you (for instance, a home that has 
burned to the ground). When traveling 
to a false destination, roll 1d20+80 to 
obtain results on the table, rather than 
rolling d%, since there is no real destina- 
tion for you to hope to arrive at or even 
be off target from. 
On Target: You appear where you want 
to be. 
Off Target: You appear safely a random 
| distance away from the destination in a 
| random direction. Distance off target is 
| 1d10x1d10% of the distance that was to be 
| traveled. For example, if you tried to travel 
120 miles, landed off target, and rolled 5 
and 3 on the two d10s, then you would be 
15% off target. That’s 18 miles, in this case. 
The DM determines the direction off 
target randomly, such as by rolling 1d8 
and designating 1 as north, 2 as northeast, 
and so forth. If you were teleporting to a 
coastal city and wound up 18 miles out at 
| sea, you could be in trouble. _ 
| Similar Area: You wind up in an area 
| that’s visually or thematically similar to 


TELEPORT 
On 
Familiarity Target 
Very familiar 01-97 
Studied carefully 01-94 
Seen casually 01-88 
Viewed once 01-76 


False destination (1d20+80) — 


the target area. A wizard heading for her 
home laboratory might wind up in an- 
other wizard’s laboratory or in an alchemy 
supply shop that has many of the same 
tools and implements as in her laboratory. 
Generally, you appear in the closest simi- 
lar place within range. If the DM deter- 
mines no such area exists within the 
spell’s range, the spell simply fails instead. 

Mishap: You and anyone else teleport- 


ing with you have gotten “scrambled.” You 
‘each take 1d10 points of damage, and you 


reroll on the chart to see where you wind 
up. For these rerolls, roll 1d20+80. Each 
time “Mishap” comes up, the characters 
take more damage and must reroll. 


Teleport Object 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 


Range: Touch 
\Target: One touched object of up to 


50 lb./level and 3 cu. ft./level 


[Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 
[Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


‘This spell functions like teleport, except 
that it teleports an object, not you. Crea- 


tures and magical forces (such as a delayed 
blast fireball bead) cannot be teleported. 


If desired, the target object can be sent. 
to a distant location on the Ethereal Plane. 
In this case, the point from which the. 


object was teleported remains faintly 


magical until the item is retrieved. A suc-, 


cessful targeted dispel magic spell cast on 


that point brings the vanished item back 


from the Ethereal Plane. 


Teleport, Greater 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7, Travel 7 


This spell functions like teleport, except 


that there is no range limit and there is no 
chance you arrive off target. In addition, 
you need not have seen the destination, 
but in that case you must have at least a 
reliable description of the place to which 
you are teleporting (such as a detailed 
description from someone else or a partic- 
ularly precise map). If you attempt to tele- 
port with insufficient information (or 
with misleading information), you disap- 
pear and simply reappear in your original 
location. Interplanar travel is not possible. 


Off Similar 
Target Area Mishap 
98-99 100 — 
95-97 98-99 100 
89-94 95-98 99-100 
77-88 89-96 97-100 
= 81-92 93-100 


Teleportation Circle 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Components: V, M 

Casting Time: 10 minutes 

Range: 0 ft. 

Effect: 5-ft.-radius circle that teleports 
those who activate it 

Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You create a circle on the floor or other 
horizontal surface that teleports, as greater 
teleport, any creature who stands on it to a 
designated spot. Once you designate the 
destination for the circle, you can't 
change it. The spell fails if you attempt to 
set the circle to teleport creatures into a 
solid object, to a place with which you are 
not familiar and have no clear descrip- 
tion, or to another plane. 

The circle itself is subtle and nearly 
impossible to notice. If you intend to 
keep creatures from activating it acci- 
dentally, you need to mark the circle in 
some way, such as by placing it on a 
raised platform. —__ 

Teleportation circle can be made perma- 
nent with a permanency spell. A perma- 
nent teleportation circle that is disabled be- 
‘comes inactive for 10 minutes, then can 
be triggered again as normal. 

__ Note: Magic traps such as teleportation 
circle are hard to detect and disable. A 
rogue (only) can use the Search skill to 
find the circle and Disable Device to 
thwart it. The DC in each case is 25 + 
spell level, or 34 in the case of teleporta- 
tion circle. 

| Material Component: Amber dust to 
cover the area of the circle (cost 1,000 gp). 


Temporal Stasis 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

‘Target: Creature touched 
Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You must succeed on a melee touch attack. 
You place the subject into a state of sus- 
pended animation. For the creature, time 
ceases to flow and its condition becomes 
fixed. The creature does not grow older. Its 
body functions virtually cease, and no force 
or effect can harm it. This state persists until 
the magic is removed (such as by a success- 
ful dispel magic spell or a freedom spell). 
Material Component: A powder composed 
of diamond, emerald, ruby, and sapphire 
dust with a total value of at least 5,000 gp. 


293 


. 


Tenser’s Floating Disk 
Evocation [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: 3-ft-diameter disk of force 
Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: No 


You create a slightly concave, circular 

| plane of force that follows you about and 
carries loads for you. The disk is 3 feet in 
diameter and 1 inch deep at its center. It 
can hold 100 pounds of weight per caster 
level. (If used to transport a liquid, its 
capacity is 2 gallons.) The disk floats ap- 
proximately 3 feet above the ground at all 
times and remains level. It floats along 
horizontally within spell range and will 
accompany you at a rate of no more than 
your normal speed each round. If not 
otherwise directed, it maintains a con- 
stant interval of 5 feet between itself and 
you. The disk winks out of existence 
when the spell duration expires. The disk 
also winks out if you move beyond range 
(by moving too fast or by such means as a 
teleport spell) or try to take the disk more 
than 3 feet away from the surface 
beneath it. When the disk winks out, 
whatever it was supporting falls to the 
surface beneath it. 


Material Component: A drop of mercury, 


Tenser’s Transformation ae | 
Transmutation 
Level: Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M 

| Casting Time: 1 standard action 

| Range: Personal 

| Target: You 

| Duration: 1 round/level 

| 

| You become a virtual fighting machine— 
stronger, tougher, faster, and more skilled 
in combat. Your mind-set changes so that 
you relish combat and you can’t cast 
spells, even from magic items. 

You gain a +4 enhancement bonus to 
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution, a 
+4 natural armor bonus to AC, a +5 com- 

| petence bonus on Fortitude saves, and 

| proficiency with all simple and martial 

| weapons. Your base attack bonus equals 

| your character level (max +20; this effect 
may give you additional attacks). 

You lose your spellcasting ability, in- 
cluding your ability to use spell activa- 
tion or spell completion magic items, just 
as if the spells were no longer on your 
class list. 

Material Component: A potion of bull’s 
strength, which you drink (and whose ef- 
fects are subsumed by the spell effects). 


Time Stop 


Transmutation 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9, Trickery 9 

Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1d4+1 rounds (apparent 
time); see text 


‘This spell seems to make time cease to 
flow for everyone but you. In fact, you 
speed up so greatly that all other creatures 
seem frozen, though they are actually still 
moving at their normal speeds. You are 
free to act for 1d4+1 rounds of apparent 
time. Fire, cold, gas, and the like can still 
harm you. While the time stop is in effect, 
other creatures are invulnerable to your 
attacks and spells; you cannot target such 
creatures with any attack or spell. A spell 
ithat affects an area and has a duration 
\longer than the remaining duration of the 
\time stop (such as cloudkill) have their 
[normal effects on other creatures once the 
|time stop ends. Most spellcasters use the 
additional time to improve their defenses, 
‘summon allies, or flee from combat. 

You cannot move or harm items held, 
carried, or worn by a creature stuck in nor- 


mal time, but you can affect any item that 
is not in another creature's possession. | 
You are undetectable while time stop 


lasts. You cannot enter an area protected 


‘by an antimagic field while under the 


‘effect of time stop. 


Tongues 


Divination 

Level: Brd 2, Clr 4, Sor/Wiz 3 
Components: V, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell grants the creature touched the 
ability to speak and understand the lan- 
guage of any intelligent creature, whether 
it is a racial tongue or a regional dialect. 
The subject can speak only one language 
at a time, although it may be able to 
understand several languages. Tongues 
does not enable the subject to speak with 
creatures who don't speak. The subject 
can make itself understood as far as its 
voice carries. This spell does not predis- 
pose any creature addressed toward the 
subject in any way. 

Tongues can be made permanent with a 
permanency spell. 

Arcane Material Component: A small clay 
model of a ziggurat, which shatters when 
the verbal component is pronounced. 


Touch of Fatigue 


Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 0 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 round/level 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


You channel negative energy through 
your touch, fatiguing the target. You must 
succeed on a touch attack to strike a tar- 
get. The subject is immediately fatigued 
for the spell’s duration. 
This spell has no effect on a creature 
that is already fatigued. Unlike with nor- 
mal fatigue, the effect ends as soon as the 
spell’s duration expires. 

Material Component: A drop of sweat. 


Touch of Idiocy 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 

Duration: 10 min./level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


With a touch, you reduce the target’s men- 
tal faculties. Your successful melee touch 
attack applies a 1dé penalty to the target's 
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores. This penalty can't reduce any of 
these scores below 1. 

This spell’s effect may make it impos- 
sible for the target to cast some or all of its 
spells, if the requisite ability score drops 
below the minimum required to cast 
spells of that level. 


Transmute Metal to Wood 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 7 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Area: All metal objects within a 40-ft.- 
radius burst 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object); see text 


This spell enables you to change all metal 
objects within its area to wood. Weapons, 
armor, and other metal objects carried by 
creatures are affected as well. A magic 
object made of metal effectively has spell 
resistance equal to 20 + its caster level 
against this spell. Artifacts cannot be 
transmuted. Weapons converted from 


metal to wood take a —2 penalty on attack 
and damage rolls. The armor bonus of any 
armor converted from metal to wood is 
reduced by 2. Weapons changed by this 
spell splinter and break on any natural 
attack roll of 1 or 2, and armor changed by 
this spell loses an additional point of 
armor bonus every time it is struck with a 
natural attack roll of 19 or 20. | 
Only limited wish, miracle, wish, or simi- 
| lar magic can restore a transmuted object 
lto its metallic state. Otherwise, for 
| example, a metal door changed to wood is 
forevermore a wooden door. 


Transmute Mud to Rock 
Transmutation [Earth] 

Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S) 
Duration: Permanent 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell transforms normal mud or 
quicksand of any depth into soft stone 
(sandstone or a similar mineral) perma- 
nently. Any creature in the mud is al- 
lowed a Reflex save to escape before the 
area is hardened to stone. 

Transmute mud to rock counters and dis- 
pels transmute rock to mud. | 

Arcane Material Component: Sand, lime, 
and water. 


Transmute Rock to Mud 
Transmutation [Earth] 
Level: Drd 5, Sor/Wiz 5 
_Components: V, S, M/DF 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
| Area: Up to two 10-ft. cubes/level (S) 
| Duration: Permanent; see text 
Saving Throw: See text 
Spell Resistance: No 


This spell turns natural, uncut or un- 
worked rock of any sort into an equal 
volume of mud. If the spell is cast upon a 
boulder, for example, the boulder col- 
lapses into mud. Magical stone is not 
‚affected by the spell. The depth of the 
| mud created cannot exceed 10 feet. A 
| creature unable to levitate, fly, or other- 
| wise free itself from the mud sinks until 
hip- or chest-deep, reducing its speed to 5 
feet and causing a —2 penalty on attack 
rolls and AC. Brush thrown atop the mud 
can support creatures able to climb on top 
of it. Creatures large enough to walk on 
the bottom can wade through the area at a 
speed of 5 feet. 
If transmute rock to mud is cast upon the 
ceiling of a cavern or tunnel, the mud 


falls to the floor and spreads out in a pool 
at a depth of 5 feet. For example, a 10th- 
level caster could convert twenty 10-foot 
cubes into mud. Pooling on the floor, this 
mud would cover an area of forty 10-foot 
squares to a depth of 5 feet. The falling 
mud and the ensuing cave-in deal 8d6 
points of bludgeoning damage to anyone 
caught directly beneath the area, or half 
‚damage to those who succeed on Reflex 
saves. 

| Castles and large stone buildings are 
generally immune to the effect of the 
spell, since transmute rock to mud can't af- 
fect worked stone and doesn't reach deep 
enough to undermine such buildings’ 
foundations. However, small buildings or 
structures often rest upon foundations 
shallow enough to be damaged or even 
partially toppled by this spell. 

| The mud remains until a successful 
(dispel magic or transmute mud to rock spell 
\restores its substance—but not necessar- 
lily its form. Evaporation turns the mud to 


‘normal dirt over a period of days. The 


‘exact time depends on exposure to the 
‘sun, wind, and normal drainage. 

Arcane Material Component: Clay and 
water. 


Transport via Plants 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 

Level: Drd 6 

Components: V, S 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Unlimited 

Target: You and touched objects or other 
touched willing creatures 

Duration: 1 round 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You can enter any normal plant (Medium) 


or larger) and pass any distance to a plant 
of the same kind in a single round, re- 
gardless of the distance separating the 
two. The entry plant must be alive. The 
destination plant need not be familiar to 
you, but it also must be alive. If you are 
uncertain of the location of a particular 
kind of destination plant, you need mere- 
ly designate direction and distance (“an 
oak tree one hundred miles due north of 
here”), and the transport via plants spell 
moves you as close as possible to the 
desired location. If a particular destina- 
tion plant is desired (the oak tree outside 
your druid grove, for instance), but the 
plant is not living, the spell fails and you 
are ejected from the entry plant. 

You can bring along objects as long as 
their weight doesn’t exceed your maxi- 
mum load. You may also bring one addi- 
tional willing Medium or smaller creature 
(carrying gear or objects up to its maxi- 
mum load) or its equivalent per three 


caster levels. Use the following equiva- 
lents to determine the maximum number 
of larger creatures you can bring along: A 
Large creature counts as two Medium 
creatures, a Huge creature counts as two 
Large creatures, and so forth. All creatures 
to be transported must be in contact with 
one another, and at least one of those crea- | 
tures must be in contact with you. | 

You cant use this spell to travel) 
through plant creatures such as sham- 
bling mounds and treants. 

The destruction of an occupied plant 
slays you and any creatures you have 
brought along, and ejects the bodies and 
all carried objects from the tree. 


Trap the Soul 


Conjuration (Summoning) 

Level: Sor/Wiz 8 

Components: V, S, M, (F); see text 

Casting Time: 1 standard action or 
see text à 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature 

Duration: Permanent; see text 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: Yes; see text 


Trap the soul forces a creature's life force 
(and its material body) into a gem. 

The gem holds the trapped entity in- 
definitely or until the gem is broken and 
the life force is released, which allows 
the material body to reform. If the 
trapped creature is a powerful creature 
from another plane (which could mean a 
character trapped by an inhabitant of 
another plane when the character is not 
on the Material Plane), it can be required 
to perform a service immediately upon 
being freed. Otherwise, the creature can 
go free once the gem imprisoning it is 
broken. 

Depending on the version selected, the 
spell can be triggered in one of two ways. 

Spell Completion: First, the spell can be 
completed by speaking its final word as a 
standard action as if you were casting a| 
regular spell at the subject. This allows | 
spell resistance (if any) and a Will save to | 
avoid the effect. If the creature's name is 
spoken as well, any spell resistance is 
ignored and the save DC increases by 2. If 
the save or spell resistance is successful, 
the gem shatters. 

Trigger Object: The second method is 
far more insidious, for it tricks the sub- 
ject into accepting a trigger object 
inscribed with the final spell word, auto- 
matically placing the creature’s soul in 
the trap. To use this method, both the 
creature’s name and the trigger word 
must be inscribed on the trigger object 
when the gem is enspelled. A sympathy 
spell can also be placed on the trigger 


object. As soon as the subject picks up or 
accepts the trigger object, its life force is 
automatically transferred to the gem 
without the benefit of spell resistance or 
a save. 

Material Component: Before the actual 
casting of trap the soul, you must procure a 
gem of at least 1,000 gp value for every 
Hit Die possessed by the creature to be 

| trapped (for example, it requires a gem of 

| 10,000 gp value to trap a 10 HD creature). 

lf the gem is not valuable enough, it shat- 

| ters when the entrapment is attempted. 
(While creatures have no concept of level 
or Hit Dice as such, the value of the gem 
needed to trap an individual can be 
researched. Remember that this value can 
change over time as creatures gain more 
Hit Dice.) 

Focus (Trigger Object Only): If the trigger 
object method is used, a special trigger 
object, prepared as described above, is 
needed. 


Tree Shape 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2, Rgr 3 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 


By means of this spell, you are able to as- 
sume the form of a Large living tree or 
shrub or a Large dead tree trunk with a 
small number of limbs. The closest in- 
spection cannot reveal that the tree in 
question is actually a magically concealed 
creature. To all normal tests you are, in 
fact, a tree or shrub, although a detect 
| magic spell reveals a faint transmutation 
Lon the tree. While in tree form, you can 
| observe all that transpires around you just 
|as if you were in your normal form, and 
‘your hit points and save bonuses remain 
unaffected. You gain a +10 natural armor 
bonus to AC but have an effective Dexter- 
ity score of 0 and a speed of 0 feet. You are 
immune to critical hits while in tree form. 
All clothing and gear carried or worn 
changes with you. 

You can dismiss tree shape as a free ac- 
ition (instead of as a standard action). 
Tree Stride 
| Conjuration (Teleportation) 

Level: Drd 5, Rgr 4 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 hour/level or until 
expended; see text 


You gain the ability to enter trees and move 
from inside one tree to inside another tree. 
The first tree you enter and all others you 
enter must be of the same kind, must be 
living, and must have girth at least equal to 
yours. By moving into an oak tree (for 
example), you instantly know the location 
of all other oak trees within transport 
range (see below) and may choose whether 
‘you want to pass into one or simply step 
‘back out of the tree you moved into. You 
may choose to pass to any tree of the 
‘appropriate kind within the transport 
range as shown on the following table. 


Type of Tree Transport Range 
Oak, ash, yew 3,000 feet 
Elm, linden 2,000 feet 
Other deciduous 1,500 feet 
Any coniferous 1,000 feet 
All other trees 500 feet 


‘You may move into a tree up to one time 
{per caster level (passing from one tree to 


janother counts only as moving into one 


Itree). The spell lasts until the duration 
expires or you exit a tree. This means that 
in a thick oak forest, a 10th-level druid 
could make ten transports over the course 
of 10 rounds, traveling as far as 30,000 feet 


(about 6 miles) in doing so. Each trans-, 


port is a full-round action. 


You can, at your option, remain within a! 


tree without transporting yourself, but you 


lare forced out when the spell ends. If the. 


‘tree in which you are concealed is chopped 
down or burned, you are slain if you do not 
exit before the process is complete. 


True Resurrection 


Conjuration (Healing) 
Level: Clr9 
Casting Time: 10 minutes 


This spell functions like raise dead, except 
that you can resurrect a creature that has 
been dead for as long as 10 years per caster 
level. This spell can even bring back crea- 
tures whose bodies have been destroyed, 
provided that you unambiguously identify 
the deceased in some fashion (reciting the 
deceased's time and place of birth or death 
is the most common method). 

Upon completion of the spell, the crea- 
ture is immediately restored to full hit 
points, vigor, and health, with no loss of 
level (or Constitution points) or prepared 
spells. 

You can revive someone killed by a 
death effect or someone who has been 
turned into an undead creature and then 
destroyed. This spell can also resurrect ele- 
mentals or outsiders, but it can’t resurrect 
constructs or undead creatures. 

Even true resurrection can't restore to life 
a creature who has died of old age. 


Material Component: A sprinkle of holy 
water and diamonds worth a total of at 
least 25,000 gp. 


True Seeing 


Divination 

Level: Clr 5, Drd 7, Knowledge 5, 
Sor/Wiz 6 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 

Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


You confer on the subject the ability to see 
all things as they actually are. The subject 
sees through normal and magical darkness, 
notices secret doors hidden by magic, sees 
the exact locations of creatures or objects 
under blur or displacement effects, sees invis- 
ible creatures or objects normally, sees 
through illusions, and sees the true form of 
polymorphed, changed, or transmuted 
things. Further, the subject can focus its 
vision to see into the Ethereal Plane (but 
not into extradimensional spaces). The 
range of true seeing conferred is 120 feet. 
| True seeing, however, does not penetrate 
solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray 
vision or its equivalent. It does not negate 
concealment, including that caused by 
fog and the like. True seeing does not help 
the viewer see through mundane dis- 
guises, spot creatures who are simply 
hiding, or notice secret doors hidden by 
mundane means. In addition, the spell 
effects cannot be further enhanced with 
known magic, so one cannot use true 
seeing through a crystal ball or in conjunc- 
tion with claivaudience/clairvoyance. 

| Material Component: An ointment for 
the eyes that costs 250 gp and is made 
from mushroom powder, saffron, and fat. 


True Strike 


Divination 

Level: Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Personal 

Target: You 

Duration: See text 


You gain temporary, intuitive insight into 
the immediate future during your next 
attack. Your next single attack roll (if it is 
made before the end of the next round) 
gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, 
you are not affected by the miss chance 
that applies to attackers trying to strike a 
concealed target. 

Focus: A small wooden replica of an 
archery target. 


Undeath to Death 
Necromancy 
Level: Clr 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Area: Several undead creatures within a 
40-ft.-radius burst 
Saving Throw: Will negates 


This spell functions like circle of death, ex- 
_cept that it destroys undead creatures as, 
| noted above. i 

Material Component: The powder of a 
| crushed diamond worth at least 500 gp. 


Undetectable Alignment 

Abjuration 

Level: Brd 1, Clr 2, Pal 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: One creature or object 

Duration: 24 hours | 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, | 
object) | 

Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object) | 


An undetectable alignment spell conceals 


from all forms of divination. 


Unhallow 
Evocation [Evil] 
Level: Clr 5, Drd 5 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 24 hours 
Range: Touch | 
Area: 40-ft. radius emanating from the | 
touched point 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: See text 
| Spell Resistance: See text 


| Unhallow makes a particular site, build- 
ling, or structure an unholy site. This has 
| three major effects. 

First, the site or structure is guarded by 
a magic circle against good effect. 

Second, all turning checks made to turn 
undead take a —4 penalty, and turning 
checks to rebuke undead gain a +4 profane 
bonus. Spell resistance does not apply to 
this effect. (This provision does not apply 
to the druid version of the spell.) 

|__ Finally, you may choose to fix a single 
| spell effect to the unhallowed site. The 
| spell effect lasts for one year and func- 
| tions throughout the entire site, regard- 
less of its normal duration and area or ef- 
fect. You may designate whether the 
effect applies to all creatures, creatures 
that share your faith or alignment, or crea- 
tures that adhere to another faith or align- 
ment. For example, you may create a bless 
effect that aids all creatures of like align- 
ment or faith in the area, or a bane effect 
that hinders creatures of the opposite 


alignment or an enemy faith. At the end 
of the year, the chosen effect lapses, but it 
can be renewed or replaced simply by 
casting unhallow again. 

Spell effects that may be tied to an 
unhallowed site include aid, bane, bless, cause 
fear, darkness, daylight, death ward, deeper 
darkness, detect magic, detect good, dimensional 
anchor, discern lies, dispel magic, endure ele- 


iments, freedom of movement, invisibility purge, 


protection from energy, remove fear, resist 


energy, silence, tongues, and zone of truth. 


Saving throws and spell resistance might 
apply to these spells’ effects. (See the indi- 
vidual spell descriptions for details.) 

An area can receive only one unhallow 
spell (and its associated spell effect) at a 
time. 

Unhallow counters but does not dispel 
hallow. 

Material Component: Herbs, oils, and 


incense worth at least 1,000 gp, plus 1,000 
\gp per level of the spell to be tied to the 
\unhallowed area. 


Unholy Aura 
Abjuration [Evil] 


Level: Clr 8, Evil 8 

Components: V, S, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 20 ft. 

Targets: One creature/level in a 20-ft.- 
radius burst centered on you 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 


(Saving Throw: See text 


Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


A malevolent darkness surrounds the sub- 


jects, protecting them from attacks, grant- 
ing them resistance to spells cast by good 
creatures, and weakening good creatures 
when they strike the subjects. This abjura- 
tion has four effects. 


First, each warded creature gains a +4 


deflection bonus to AC and a +4 resist- 
ance bonus on saves. Unlike the effect of 
protection from good, this benefit applies 
against all attacks, not just against attacks 
by good creatures. 

Second, a warded creature gains spell 
resistance 25 against good spells and 
spells cast by good creatures. 

Third, the abjuration blocks possession 
and mental influence, just as protection 
from good does. 

Finally, if a good creature succeeds on a 
melee attack against a warded creature, 
the offending attacker takes 1d6 points of 
temporary Strength damage (Fortitude 
negates). 

Focus: A tiny reliquary containing some 
sacred relic, such as a piece of parchment 
from an unholy text. The reliquary costs at 
least 500 gp. 


Unholy Blight 


Evocation [Evil] 

Level: Evil 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Area: 20-ft.-radius spread 

Duration: Instantaneous (1d4 rounds); 
see text 

Saving Throw: Will partial 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You call up unholy power to smite your 
enemies. The power takes the form of a 
cold, cloying miasma of greasy darkness. 
Only good and neutral (not evil) creatures 
are harmed by the spell. 

The spell deals 1d8 points of damage 
per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to a 
good creature (or 1dé per caster level, 
maximum 10d6, to a good outsider) and 
causes it to be sickened for 1d4 rounds. A 
successful Will save reduces damage to 
half and negates the sickened effect. The 
effects cannot be negated by remove disease 
or heal, but remove curse is effective. 

The spell deals only half damage to 
creatures who are neither evil nor good, 
and they are not sickened. Such a creature 
can reduce the damage in half again 
(down to one-quarter) with a successful 
Will save. 


Unseen Servant 


Conjuration (Creation) 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 
Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: One invisible, mindless, shape- 
| less servant 

Duration: 1 hour/level 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


An unseen servant is an invisible, mind- 
less, shapeless force that performs simple 
tasks at your command. It can run and 
fetch things, open unstuck doors, and 
hold chairs, as well as clean and mend. | 
The servant can perform only one activ- | 
ity at a time, but it repeats the same activ- 
ity over and over again if told to do so, 
thus allowing you to command it to clean 
the floor and then turn your attention 
elsewhere as long as you remain within 
range. It can open only normal doors, 
drawers, lids, and the like. It has an effec- 
tive Strength score of 2 (so it can lift 20 
pounds or drag 100 pounds). It can trig- 
ger traps and such, but it can exert only 
20 pounds of force, which is not enough 
to activate certain pressure plates and 
other devices. It can't perform any task 
that requires a skill check with a DC 
higher than 10 or that requires a check 


using a skill that can't be used untrained. 
Its speed is 15 feet. 

The servant cannot attack in any way; it 
is never allowed an attack roll. It cannot be 
killed, but it dissipates if it takes 6 points 
of damage from area attacks. (It gets no 
saves against attacks.) If you attempt to 
send it beyond the spell’s range (measured. 
from your current position), the servant 

| ceases to exist. | 
___ Material Component: A piece of string 
[and a bit of wood. 


Vampiric Touch 

Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 3 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: Living creature touched 

Duration: Instantaneous/1 hour; 
see text 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You must succeed on a melee touch at- 
tack. Your touch deals 1d6 points of dam- 
age per two caster levels (maximum 
10d6). You gain temporary hit points 
equal to the damage you deal. However, 
you can't gain more than the subject’s cur- 
rent hit points +10, which is enough to 
kill the subject. The temporary hit points 
disappear 1 hour later. 


Veil 
Illusion (Glamer) | 
Level: Brd 6, Sor/Wiz 6 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
| Targets: One or more creatures, no two 
of which can be more than 30 ft. apart 
| Duration: Concentration + 1 hour/level 
be (D) 
| Saving Throw: Will negates; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes; see text 


You instantly change the appearance of the 
subjects and then maintain that appearance 
for the spell’s duration. You can make the 
subjects appear to be anything you wish. A 
party might be made to resemble a mixed 
| band of sprites led by a treant. The subjects 
| look, feel, and smell just like the creatures 
ithe spell makes them resemble. Affected 
| creatures resume their normal appearances 
if slain. You must succeed on a Disguise 
check to duplicate the appearance of a spe- 
cific individual. This spell gives you a +10 
bonus on the check. 

Unwilling targets can negate the spell’s 
effect on them by making Will saves or 
with spell resistance. Those who interact 
with the subjects can attempt Will disbe- 
lief saves to see through the glamer, but 
spell resistance doesn't help. 


Ventriloquism 


Illusion (Figment) 

Level: Brd 1, Sor/Wiz 1 

Components: V, F 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Effect: Intelligible sound, usually speech 
Duration: 1 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will disbelief (if inter- 

___ acted with) 

Spell Resistance: No 


‘You can make your voice (or any sound 
that you can normally make vocally) seem 
to issue from someplace else, such as from 
another creature, a statue, from behind a 
door, down a passage, etc. You can speak in 
any language you know. With respect to 
such voices and sounds, anyone who hears 
the sound and rolls a successful save rec- 
ognizes it as illusory (but still hears it). 
Focus: A parchment rolled up into a 
small cone. 
| 


Virtue 


|Transmutation 

Level: Clr 0, Drd 0, Pal 1 
Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Creature touched 
Duration: 1 min. 


Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harm- | 


less) 


(Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The subject gains 1 temporary hit point. 


Vision 


Divination 

Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S, M, XP 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 


This spell functions like legend love, except 
that it works more quickly but produces 
some strain on you. You pose a question 
about some person, place, or object, then 
cast the spell. If the person or object is at 
hand or if you are in the place in question, 
you receive a vision about it by succeed- 
ing on a caster level check (1d20 +1 per 
caster level; maximum +25) against DC 
20. If only detailed information on the 
person, place, or object is known, the DC 
is 25, and the information gained is 
incomplete. If only rumors are known, 
the DC is 30, and the information gained 
is vague. 
XP Cost: 100 XP. 


Wail of the Banshee 


Necromancy [Death, Sonic] 

Level: Death 9, Sor/Wiz 9 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 


Area: One living creature/level within a 
40-ft.-radius spread 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Fortitude negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


You emit a terrible scream that kills crea- 
tures that hear it (except for yourself). | 
Creatures closest to the point of origin are | 
affected first. 


Wall of Fire 


Evocation [Fire] 

Level: Drd 5, Fire 4, Sor/Wiz 4 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Opaque sheet of flame up to 20 ft. 
long/level or a ring of fire with a 
radius of up to 5 ft./two levels; either 
form 20 ft. high 

Duration: Concentration + 1 
round/level f 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


An immobile, blazing curtain of shimmer- 
ing violet fire springs into existence. One 
side of the wall, selected by you, sends 
forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of 
fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 
1d4 points of fire damage to those past 10 
feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this 
damage when it appears and on your turn 
each round to all creatures in the area. In 
addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire 
damage +1 point of fire damage per caster 
level (maximum +20) to any creature pass- 
ing through it. The wall deals double 
damage to undead creatures. 

If you evoke the wall so that it appears 
where creatures are, each creature takes 
damage as if passing through the wall. 

If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 
points of cold damage or more in 1 round, 
that length goes out. (Do not divide cold 
damage by 4, as normal for objects.) 

Wall of fire can be made permanent with 
a permanency spell. A permanent wall of fire. 
that is extinguished by cold damage, 
becomes inactive for 10 minutes, then | 
reforms at normal strength. 

Arcane Material Component: A small 
piece of phosphorus. 


Wall of Force 


Evocation [Force] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Effect: Wall whose area is up to one 
10-ft. square/level 

Duration: 1 round /level (D) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


A wall of force spell creates an invisible 
wall of force. The wall cannot move, it is 
immune to damage of all kinds, and it is 
unaffected by most spells, including 
dispel magic. However, disintegrate imme- 
diately destroys it, as does a rod of cancel- 
lation, a sphere of annihilation, or a Morden- 
kainen’s disjunction spell. Breath weapons 
and spells cannot pass through the wall 
_in either direction, although dimension 
| door, teleport, and similar effects can by- 
| pass the barrier. It blocks ethereal crea- 
| tures as well as material ones (though 
ethereal creatures can usually get around 
the wall by floating under or over it 
through material floors and ceilings). 
Gaze attacks can operate through a wall 
of force. 

The caster can form the wall into a flat, 
vertical plane whose area is up to one 10- 
foot square per level. The wall must be 
continuous and unbroken when formed. 


If its surface is broken by any object or_ 


creature, the spell fails. | 
Wall of force can be made permanent 
with a permanency spell. i | 
Material Component: A pinch of powder 
made from a clear gem. 


Wall of Ice __ 
Evocation [Cold] 
Level: Sor/Wiz 4 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action | 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft/level) | 
Effect: Anchored plane of ice, up to one | 
10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of | 
ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. + 
1 ft./level 
Duration: 1 min./level 
| Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| This spell creates an anchored plane of ice 

[or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the 

| version selected. A wall of ice cannot form 
in an area occupied by physical objects or 
creatures. Its surface must be smooth and 
unbroken when created. Any creature 
adjacent to the wall when it is created may 
attempt a Reflex save to disrupt the wall 
as it is being formed. A successful save 
indicates that the spell automatically fails. 
Fire, including a fireball spell and red 

| dragon breath, can melt a wall of ice, and it 

| deals full damage to the wall (instead of 

| the normal half damage taken by objects). 
Suddenly melting a wall of ice creates a 
great cloud of steamy fog that lasts for 10 
minutes. 

Ice Plane: A sheet of strong, hard ice ap- 
pears. The wall is 1 inch thick per caster 
level. It covers up to a 10-foot-square area 
per caster level (so a 10th-level wizard can 
create a wall of ice 100 feet long and 10 
feet high, a wall 50 feet long and 20 feet 
high, or some other combination of 


length and height that does not exceed 
1,000 square feet). The plane can be ori- 
ented in any fashion as long as it is 
anchored. A vertical wall need only be an- 
chored on the floor, while a horizontal or 
slanting wall must be anchored on two 
opposite sides. 

The wall is primarily defensive in 
nature and is used to stop pursuers from 


following you and the like. Each 10-foot 


square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of 


thickness. Creatures can hit the wall auto- 


matically. A section of wall whose hit 
points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature 
tries to break through the wall with a 
single attack, the DC for the Strength 
check is 15 + caster level. 

Even when the ice has been broken 
through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any 
creature stepping through it (including 


the one who broke through the wall) 
‘takes 1d6 points of cold damage +1 point 
‘per caster level (no save). 


Hemisphere: The wall takes the form of a 


[hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 
[feet + 1 foot per caster level. Thus, a 7th- 
level caster can create a hemisphere 10 
feet in radius. The hemisphere is as hard to 


break through as the ice plane form, but it 
does not deal damage to those who go 
through a breach. | 

Material Component: A small piece of 
quartz or similar rock crystal. 


Wall of Iron 


Conjuration (Creation) 


Level: Sor/Wiz 6 


Components: V, S, M 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Iron wall whose area is up to one 
5-ft. square/level; see text 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


You cause a flat, vertical iron wall to 
spring into being. This wall can be used to 
seal off a passage or close a breach, for the 
wall inserts itself into any surrounding 
nonliving material if its area is sufficient 
to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so 
that it occupies the same space as a crea- 
ture or another object. It must always be a 
flat plane, though you can shape its 
edges to fit the available space. 

A wall of iron is 1 inch thick per four 
caster levels. You can double the wall’s 
area by halving its thickness. Each 5- 
foot square of the wall has 30 hit points 
per inch of thickness and hard- 
ness 10. A section of wall whose 
hit points drop to 0 is breached. If 
a creature tries to break through 
the wall with a single attack, the DC for 
the Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of 
thickness. 


If you desire, the wall can be created 
vertically resting on a flat surface but not 
attached to the surface, so that it can be 
tipped over to fall on and crush creatures 
beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in 
either direction if left unpushed. Crea- 
tures can push the wall in one direction 
rather than letting it fall randomly. A crea- | 
ture must make a DC 40 Strength check) 
to push the wall over. Creatures with) 
room to flee the falling wall may do so by 
making successful Reflex saves. Any 
Large or smaller creature that fails takes 
10dé6 points of damage. The wall cannot 
crush Huge and larger creatures. 

Like any iron wall, this wall is subject 
to rust, perforation, and other natural 
phenomena. 

Material Component: A small piece of 
sheet iron plus gold dust worth 50 gp (4 
pound of gold dust). 


Wall of Stone 


Conjuration (Creation) [Earth] 

Level: Clr 5, Drd 6, Earth 5, Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 

Effect: Stone wall whose area is up to 
one 5-ft. square/level (S) 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: See text 

Spell Resistance: No 


This spell creates a wall of rock that 
merges into adjoining rock surfaces. It is 
typically employed to close passages, por- 
tals, and breaches against opponents. A 
wall of stone is 1 inch thick per four caster 
levels and composed of up to one 5-foot 
square per level. You can double the wall’s 


area by halving its thickness. The wall 
cannot be conjured so that it occupies the 
same space as a creature or another object. 

Unlike a wall of iron, you can create a 
wall of stone in almost any shape you 
desire. The wall created need not be verti- 
cal, nor rest upon any firm foundation; 
however, it must merge with and be sol- 
idly supported by existing stone. It can be 

_used to bridge a chasm, for instance, or as, 
‘a ramp. For this use, if the span is more 
than 20 feet, the wall must be arched and 

buttressed. This requirement reduces the 
spell’s area by half. Thus, a 20th-level cast- 
er can create a span with a surface area of 
ten 5-foot squares. The wall can be crude- 
ly shaped to allow crenellations, battle- 
ments, and so forth by likewise reducing 
the area. 

Like any other stone wall, this one can 
be destroyed by a disintegrate spell or by 
normal means such as breaking and chip- 
ping. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 15) 
hit points per inch of thickness and hard- 
ness 8. A section of wall whose hit points 
drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to 
break through the wall with a single 
attack, the DC for the Strength check is 
20 + 2 per inch of thickness. 

It is possible, but difficult, to trap mo- 
bile opponents within or under a wall of 
stone, provided the wall is shaped so it can 
hold the creatures. Creatures can avoid 
entrapment with successful Reflex saves. 

Arcane Material Component: A small 
block of granite. 


+ 


Wall of Thorns 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Drd 5, Plant 5 
| Components: V, S 
| Casting Time: 1 standard action 
| Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
| Effect: Wall of thorny brush, up to one 
| 10-ft. cube/level (S) 
| Duration: 10 min./level (D) 
Saving Throw: None 
Spell Resistance: No 


A wall of thorns spell creates a barrier of 
very tough, pliable, tangled brush bearing 
needle-sharp thorns as long as a human's 
finger. Any creature forced into or 
attempting to move through a wall of 
| thorns takes slashing damage per round of 
| movement equal to 25 minus the crea- 
| ture’s AC. Dexterity and dodge bonuses to 
AC do not count for this calculation. 
(Creatures with an Armor Class of 25 or 
higher, without considering Dexterity 
and dodge bonuses, take no damage from 
contact with the wall.) 

You can make the wall as thin as 5 feet 
thick, which allows you to shape the wall 
as a number of 10-by-10-by-5-foot blocks 
equal to twice your caster level. This has 
no effect on the damage dealt by the 


thorns, but any creature attempting to 
break through takes that much less time 
to force its way through the barrier. 

Creatures can force their way slowly 
through the wall by making a Strength 
check as a full-round action. For every 5 
points by which the check exceeds 20, a 
creature moves 5 feet (up to a maximum 
distance equal to its normal land speed). 
‘For example, a creature that rolled 25 on 
its Strength check could move 5 feet in a 
‘round. Of course, moving or attempting 
to move through the thorns incurs 
damage as described above. A creature 
trapped in the thorns can choose to 
remain motionless in order to avoid 
taking any more damage. 

Any creature within the area of the 
spell when it is cast takes damage as if it 
had moved into the wall and is caught 
inside. In order to escape, it must 
\attempt to push its way free, or it can 
\wait until the spell ends. Creatures with 
ithe ability to pass through overgrown 


jareas unhindered can pass through a wall 


lof thorns at normal speed without taking 
damage. 

___A wall of thorns can be breached by 
slow work with edged weapons. Chop- 
ping away at the wall creates a safe pas- 
sage 1 foot deep for every 10 minutes of 


work. Normal fire cannot harm the bar-. 


rier, but magical fire burns it away in 10. 
minutes. 

Despite its appearance, a wall of thorns is. 
‘not actually a living plant, and thus is 
unaffected by spells that affect plants. 


Warp Wood 


Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Target: 1 Small or smaller wooden 
object/level, all within a 20-ft. radius 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


You cause wood to bend and warp, per- 
manently destroying its straightness, 
form, and strength. A warped door 
springs open (or becomes stuck, requir- 
ing a Strength check to open, at your 
option). A boat or ship springs a leak. 
Warped ranged weapons are useless. A 
warped melee weapon causes a —4 
penalty on attack rolls. 

You may warp one Small or smaller ob- 
ject (such as a wagon wheel or a human's 
crossbow) or its equivalent per caster 
level. A Medium object (such as an oar or 
a human's spear) counts as two Small ob- 
jects, a Large object (such as a rowboat or 
a hill giant’s greatclub) as four, a Huge 
object (such as a wagon or a cloud giant’s 


morningstar) as eight, a Gargantuan ob- 
ject (such as a keelboat) as sixteen, and a 
Colossal object (such as a sailing ship) as 
thirty-two. 

Alternatively, you can unwarp wood 
(effectively warping it back to normal) 
with this spell, straightening wood that 
has been warped by this spell or by 
other means. Make whole, on the other) 
hand, does no good in repairing a! 
warped item. 

You can combine multiple consecutive 
warp wood spells to warp (or unwarp) an 
object that is too large for you to warp 
with a single spell. For instance, an 8th- 
level druid could cast two warp wood 
spells to warp a Gargantuan object, or four 
warp wood spells to warp a Colossal object. 
Until the object is completely warped, it 
suffers no ill effects. 


Water Breathing 


Transmutation d 

Level: Clr 3, Drd 3, Sor/Wiz 3, Water 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Target: Living creatures touched 
Duration: 2 hours/level; see text 
Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The transmuted creatures can breathe wa- 
ter freely. Divide the duration evenly 
among all the creatures you touch. 

The spell does not make creatures un- 
able to breathe air. 

Arcane Material Component: A short reed 
or piece of straw. 


Water Walk 


Transmutation [Water] 

Level: Clr 3, Rgr 3 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Touch 

Targets: One touched creature/level 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) 
Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) 


The transmuted creatures can tread on 
any liquid as if it were firm ground. Mud, 
oil, snow, quicksand, running water, ice, 
and even lava can be traversed easily, 
since the subjects’ feet hover an inch or 
two above the surface. (Creatures crossing 
molten lava still take damage from the 
heat because they are near it.) The sub- 
jects can walk, run, charge, or otherwise 
move across the surface as if it were 
normal ground. 

If the spell is cast underwater (or while 
the subjects are partially or wholly sub- 
merged in whatever liquid they are in), the 
subjects are borne toward the surface at 60 
feet per round until they can stand on it. 


Waves of Exhaustion 
Necromancy 
Level: Sor/Wiz 7 
Components: V, S 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 60 ft. 
Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


| Waves of negative energy cause all living 

| creatures in the spell’s area to become ex- 
hausted. This spell has no effect on a crea- 
ture that is already exhausted. 


Waves of Fatique 
Necromancy 

Level: Sor/Wiz 5 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 30 ft. _ E 
Area: Cone-shaped burst 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Waves of negative energy render all living 
creatures in the spell’s area fatigued. This 
spell has no effect on a creature that is 
already fatigued. 


Web 
Conjuration (Creation) 
Level: Sor/Wiz 2 
Components: V, S, M 
Casting Time: 1 standard action — | 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
Effect: Webs in a 20-ft.-radius spread 
Duration: 10 min./level (D) 

| Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text 

| Spell Resistance: No 


|Web creates a many-layered mass of 
strong, sticky strands. These strands trap 
those caught in them. The strands are 
similar to spider webs but far larger and 
tougher. These masses must be anchored 
to two or more solid and diametrically 
opposed points—floor and ceiling, oppo- 
site walls, or the like—or else the web 
collapses upon itself and disappears. 
Creatures caught within a web become 
entangled among the gluey fibers. At- 
| tacking a creature in a web won't cause 
| you to become entangled. 
|__Anyone in the effect’s area when the 
spell is cast must make a Reflex save. If 
this save succeeds, the creature is entan- 
gled, but not prevented from moving, 
though moving is more difficult than 
normal for being entangled (see below). If 
the save fails, the creature is entangled 
and can’t move from its space, but can 
break loose by spending 1 round and 
making a DC 20 Strength check or a DC 
25 Escape Artist check. Once loose (either 


t 


by making the initial Reflex save or a later 
Strength check or Escape Artist check), a 
creature remains entangled, but may 
move through the web very slowly. Each 
round devoted to moving allows the crea- 
ture to make a new Strength check or 
Escape Artist check. The creature moves 5 
feet for each full 5 points by which the 
check result exceeds 10. 

If you have at least 5 feet of web be- 
tween you and an opponent, it provides 
‘cover. If you have at least 20 feet of web 
between you, it provides total cover (see 
Cover, page 150). 

The strands of a web spell are flamma- 
ble. A magic flaming sword can slash them 
away as easily as a hand brushes away cob- 
webs. Any fire—a torch, burning oil, a 
flaming sword, and so forth—can set the 
webs alight and burn away 5 square feet in 
1 round. All creatures within flaming 
webs take 2d4 points of fire damage from 
Ithe flames. 

Web can be made permanent with a per- 


imanency spell. A permanent web that is 


\damaged (but not destroyed) regrows in 
10 minutes. 
Material Component: A bit of spider web. 


Weird 


Illusion (Phantasm) [Fear, Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Targets: Any number of creatures, no 
two of which can be more than 30 ft. 
apart 


This spell functions like phantasmal killer, 
except it can affect more than one crea- 
ture. Only the affected creatures see the 
phantasmal creatures attacking them, 
though you see the attackers as shadowy 
shapes. 


If a subject's Fortitude save succeeds, it 


still takes 3d6 points of damage and is 
stunned for 1 round. The subject also 
takes 1d4 points of temporary Strength 
damage. 


Whirlwind 


Evocation [Air] 

Level: Air 8, Drd 8 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 

Effect: Cyclone 10 ft. wide at base, 30 ft. 
wide at top, and 30 ft. tall 

Duration: 1 round/level (D) 

Saving Throw: Reflex negates; see text 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


This spell creates a powerful cyclone of 
raging wind that moves through the air, 
along the ground, or over water at a 
speed of 60 feet per round. You can con- 
centrate on controlling the cyclone’s 
every movement or specify a simple pro- 


gram, such as move straight ahead, 

zigzag, circle, or the like. Directing the 

cyclone’s movement or changing its pro- 

grammed movement is a standard action 

for you. The cyclone always moves 

during your turn. If the cyclone exceeds 

the spell’s range, it moves in a random, 

uncontrolled fashion for 1d3 rounds— | 
possibly endangering you or your) 
allies—and then dissipates. (You can't | 
regain control of the cyclone, even if 

comes back within range.) 

Any Large or smaller creature that 
comes in contact with the spell effect 
must succeed on a Reflex save or take 3d6 
points of damage. A Medium or smaller 
creature that fails its first save must suc- 
ceed ona second one or be picked up bod- 
ily by the cyclone and held suspended in 
its powerful winds, taking 1d8 points of 
damage each round on your turn with no 
save allowed. You may direct the cyclone 
to eject any carried creatures whenever 
you wish, depositing the hapless souls 
wherever the cyclone happens to be when 
they are released. 


Whispering Wind _ 


Transmutation [Air] 

Level: Brd 2, Sor/Wiz 2 

Components: V, S 

(Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: 1 mile/level 

Area: 10-ft.-radius spread 

Duration: No more than 1 hour/level or 
until discharged (destination is 
reached) 

Saving Throw: None 

Spell Resistance: No 


You send a message or sound on the wind 

to a designated spot. The whispering wind 

travels to a specific location within range 

that is familiar to you, provided that it can 

find a way to the location. (It can’t pass 

through walls, for instance.) A whispering 

wind is as gentle and unnoticed as a 

zephyr until it reaches the location. It 

then delivers its whisper-quiet message or | 
other sound. Note that the message is 
delivered regardless of whether anyone is | 
present to hear it. The wind then dissi- 

pates. You can prepare the spell to bear a 

message of no more than twenty-five 

words, cause the spell to deliver other 

sounds for 1 round, or merely have the 

whispering wind seem to be a faint stirring 

of the air. You can likewise cause the whis- 

pering wind to move as slowly as 1 mile per 

hour or as quickly as 1 mile per 10 min- 

utes. When the spell reaches its objective, 

it swirls and remains in place until the 

message is delivered. As with magic mouth, 

whispering wind cannot speak verbal com- 

ponents, use command words, or activate 

magical effects. 


302 


Wind Walk 


Transmutation [Air] 

Level: Clr 6, Drd 7 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Targets: You and one touched creature/ 
three levels 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D); see text 

| Saving Throw: None and Will negates 

| (harmless) | 

Spell Resistance: No and Yes (harmless). 


You alter the substance of your body toa 
cloudlike vapor (as the gaseous form 
spell) and move through the air, possi- 
bly at great speed. You can take other 
creatures with you, each of which acts 
independently. 

Normally, a wind walker flies at a speed 
of 10 feet with perfect maneuverability. If 
desired by the subject, a magical wind 
wafts a wind walker along at up to 600 feet 
per round (60 mph) with poor maneu- 
verability. Wind walkers are not invisible 
but rather appear misty and translucent. 
If fully clothed in white, they are 80% 
likely to be mistaken for clouds, fog, 
vapors, or the like. 

A wind walker can regain its physical 
form as desired and later resume the 
cloud form. Each change to and from va- 
porous form takes 5 rounds, which counts 
toward the duration of the spell (as does 


any time spent in physical form). As_ 


noted above, you can dismiss the spell, 
and you can even dismiss it for individual 
wind walkers and not others. 
For the last minute of the spell’s dura- 
tion, a wind walker in cloud form auto- 
matically descends 60 feet per round (for 
la total of 600 feet), though it may 
| descend faster if it wishes. This descent 
| serves as a warning that the spell is about 
[to end. 


Wind Wall 


Evocation [Air] 
Level: Air 2, Clr 3, Drd 3, Rgr 2, Sor/ 
Wiz 3 
Components: V, S, M/DF 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) 
| Effect: Wall up to 10 ft./level long and 
5 ft./level high (S) 
| Duration: 1 round/level 
| Saving Throw: None; see text 
Spell Resistance: Yes 


An invisible vertical curtain of wind ap- 
pears. It is 2 feet thick and of considerable 
strength. It is a roaring blast sufficient to 
blow away any bird smaller than an eagle, 
or tear papers and similar materials from 
unsuspecting hands. (A Reflex save allows 
a creature to maintain its grasp on an 


object.) Tiny and Small flying creatures 
cannot pass through the barrier. Loose 
materials and cloth garments fly upward 
when caught in a wind wall. Arrows and 
bolts are deflected upward and miss, 
while any other normal ranged weapon 
passing through the wall has a 30% miss 
chance. (A giant-thrown boulder, a siege 
engine projectile, and other massive 
‘ranged weapons are not affected.) Gases, 
‘most gaseous breath weapons, and crea- 
‘tures in gaseous form cannot pass 
‘through the wall (although it is no barrier 
to incorporeal creatures). 

While the wall must be vertical, you 
can shape it in any continuous path along 
the ground that you like. It is possible to 
create cylindrical or square wind walls to 
enclose specific points. A Sth-level caster 
can create a wall up to 50 feet long and up 
to 25 feet high, sufficient to form a cylin- 
ider of wind 15 feet in diameter. 
| Arcane Material Component: A tiny fan 
land a feather of exotic origin. 


Wish 


‘Universal 

‘Level: Sor/Wiz 9 

Components: V, XP 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: See text 

Target, Effect, or Area: See text 
Duration: See text 

Saving Throw: See text 

‘Spell Resistance: Yes 


Wish is the mightiest spell a wizard or sor- 
cerer can cast. By simply speaking aloud, 
you can alter reality to better suit you. 
Even wish, however, has its limits. 

A wish can produce any one of the fol- 
lowing effects. 


è Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell’ 


of 8th level or lower, provided the spell 
is not of a school prohibited to you. 

e Duplicate any other spell of 6th level or 
lower, provided the spell is not of a 
school prohibited to you. 

© Duplicate any wizard or sorcerer spell 
of 7th level or lower even if it’s of a pro- 
hibited school. 

° Duplicate any other spell of 5th level or 
lower even if it’s of a prohibited school. 

* Undo the harmful effects of many 
other spells, such as geas/quest or insan- 
ity. 

e Create a nonmagical item of up to 
25,000 gp in value. 

e Create a magic item, or add to the pow- 
ers of an existing magic item. 

e Grant a creature a +1 inherent bonus to 
an ability score. Two to five wish spells 
cast in immediate succession can grant 
a creature a +2 to +5 inherent bonus to 
an ability score (two wishes for a +2 in- 
herent bonus, three for a +3 inherent 


bonus, and so on). Inherent bonuses 
are instantaneous, so they cannot be 
dispelled. Note: An inherent bonus may 
not exceed +5 for a single ability score, 
and inherent bonuses to a particular 
ability score do not stack, so only the 
best one applies. 

¢ Remove injuries and afflictions. A sin- | 
gle wish can aid one creature per) 
caster level, and all subjects are cured | 
of the same kind of affliction. For 
example, you could heal all the 
damage you and your companions 
have taken, or remove all poison 
effects from everyone in the party, but 
not do both with the same wish. A 
wish can never restore the experience 
point loss from casting a spell or the 
level or Constitution loss from being 
raised from the dead. 

© Revive the dead. A wish can bring a 
dead creature back to life by duplicat- 
ing a resurrection spell. A wish can revive 
a dead creature whose body has been 
destroyed, but the task takes two wishes, 
one to recreate the body and another to 
infuse the body with life again. A wish 
cannot prevent a character who was 
brought back to life from losing an 

| experience level. 

e Transport travelers. A wish can lift one 
creature per caster level from any- 
where on any plane and place those 
creatures anywhere else on any plane 
regardless of local conditions. An un- 
willing target gets a Will save to negate 
the effect, and spell resistance (if any) 
applies. 

° Undo misfortune. A wish can undo a 
single recent event. The wish forces a 
reroll of any roll made within the last 
round (including your last turn). Real- 

| _ity reshapes itself to accommodate the 
new result. For example, a wish could 
undo an opponent's successful save, a 
foe's successful critical hit (either the 
attack roll or the critical roll), a friend’s 
failed save, and so on. The reroll, how- 
ever, may be as bad as or worse than the | 
original roll. An unwilling target gets a | 
Will save to negate the effect, and spell | 
resistance (if any) applies. 


You may try to use a wish to produce 
greater effects than these, but doing so is 
dangerous. Such a wish gives the DM the 
opportunity to fulfill your request with- 
out fulfilling it completely. (The wish may 
pervert your intent into a literal but un- 
desirable fulfillment or only a partial ful- 
fillment.) For example, wishing for a staff 
of the magi might get you instantly trans- 
ported to the presence of the staff's cur- 
rent owner. Wishing to be immortal 
could get you imprisoned in a hidden ex- 
tradimensional space (as by an imprison- 


ment spell), where you could “live” indefi- 
nitely. 

Duplicated spells allow saves and spell 
resistance as normal (but save DCs are for 
9th-level spells). 

Material Component: When a wish dup- 
licates a spell with a material component 
that costs more than 10,000 gp, you must 
provide that component. | 

__ XP Cost: The minimum XP cost for, 
casting wish is 5,000 XP. When a wish 
| duplicates a spell that has an XP cost, you 

| must pay 5,000 XP or that cost, which- 
ever is more. When a wish creates or im- 
proves a magic item, you must pay twice 
the normal XP cost for crafting or im- 
proving the item, plus an additional 
5,000 XP. 


Wood Shape 

Transmutation 

Level: Drd 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Touch 

Target: One touched piece of wood no 
larger than 10 cu. ft. + 1 cu. ft-/level 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: Will negates (object) 

Spell Resistance: Yes (object) 


Wood shape enables you to form one exist- 
ing piece of wood into any shape that 
suits your purpose. For example, you can 
make a wooden weapon, fashion a special 
trapdoor, or sculpt a crude idol. This spell 
also permits you to reshape a wood door 
to make an exit where one didn't exist or 
to seal a door shut. While it is possible to 
make crude coffers, doors, and so forth, 
fine detail isn’t possible. There is a 30% 
| chance that any shape that includes mov- 
| ing parts simply doesn't work. 


Word of Chaos 
Evocation [Chaotic, Sonic] 
Level: Chaos 7, Clr 7 
Components: V 
Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: 40 ft. 
Area: 40-ft-radius spread centered on 
you 
Duration: Instantaneous 
| Saving Throw: None or Will negates; 
| see text 
| Spell Resistance: Yes 


Any nonchaotic creature within the area 
who hears the word of chaos suffers the fol- 
lowing ill effects. 

The effects are cumulative and concur- 
rent. No saving throw is allowed against 
these effects. 

Deafened: The creature is deafened for 
1d4 rounds. 


Stunned: The creature is stunned for 1 
round. 

Confused: The creature is confused, as by 
the confusion spell, for 1d10 minutes. This 
is a mind-affecting enchantment effect. 

Killed: Living creatures die. Undead 
creatures are destroyed. 


HD Effect 
‚Equal to caster level Deafened 
Up to caster level —1 Stunned, deafened 
Up to caster level —5 Confused, stunned, 
deafened 

Killed, confused, 
stunned, deafened 


Up to caster level -10 


Furthermore, if you are on your home 
plane when you cast this spell, non- 
chaotic extraplanar creatures within the 
area are instantly banished back to their 
home planes. Creatures so banished 
‘cannot return for at least 24 hours. This 
\effect takes place regardless of whether 
ithe creatures hear the word of chaos. The 
(banishment effect allows a Will save (at a 
|—4 penalty) to negate. 
| Creatures whose HD exceed your cast- 
er level are unaffected by word of chaos. 


Word of Recall 


Conjuration (Teleportation) 
Level: Clr 6, Drd 8 
Components: V 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 
Range: Unlimited 


Target: You and touched objects or other | 


| willing creatures 

Duration: Instantaneous 

Saving Throw: None or Will negates 
(harmless, object) 

Spell Resistance: No or Yes (harmless, 
object) 


Word of recall teleports you instantly back 


to your sanctuary when the word is ut- 
tered. You must designate the sanctuary 
when you prepare the spell, and it must be 
a very familiar place. The actual point of 
arrival is a designated area no larger than 
10 feet by 10 feet. You can be transported 
any distance within a plane but cannot 
travel between planes. You can transport, 
in addition to yourself, any objects you 
carry, as long as their weight doesn't 
exceed your maximum load. You may also 
bring one additional willing Medium or 
smaller creature (carrying gear or objects 
up to its maximum load) or its equivalent 
per three caster levels. A Large creature 
counts as two Medium creatures, a Huge 
creature counts as two Large creatures, 
and so forth. All creatures to be trans- 
ported must be in contact with one 
another, and at least one of those creatures 
must be in contact with you. Exceeding 
this limit causes the spell to fail. 


An unwilling creature can’t be tele- 
ported by word of recall. Likewise, a crea- 
ture’s Will save (or spell resistance) pre- 
vents items in its possession from being 
teleported. Unattended, nonmagical ob- 
jects receive no saving throw. 


Zone of Silence 


Illusion (Glamer) 

Level: Brd 4 

Components: V, S 

Casting Time: 1 round 

Range: Personal 

Area: 5-ft.-radius emanation centered on 
you 

Duration: 1 hour/level (D) 


By casting zone of silence, you manipulate 
sound waves in your immediate vicinity 
so that you and those within the spell’s 
area can converse normally, yet no one 
outside can hear your voices or any other 
noises from within, including language- 
dependent or sonic spell effects (such as 
command or shout).This effect is centered 
on you and moves with you. Anyone who 
enters the zone immediately becomes 
subject to its effects, but those who leave 
are no longer affected. Note, however, 
that a successful Spot check to read lips 
can still reveal what's said inside a zone of 
silence. 


Zone of Truth 


Enchantment (Compulsion) [Mind- 
Affecting] 

Level: Clr 2, Pal 2 

Components: V, S, DF 

Casting Time: 1 standard action 

Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 

Area: 20-ft.-radius emanation 

‘Duration: 1 min./level 

Saving Throw: Will negates 

Spell Resistance: Yes 


Creatures within the emanation area (or 

those who enter it) can't speak any delib- 

erate and intentional lies. Each poten- 

tially affected creature is allowed a save to. 
avoid the effects when the spell is cast or | 
when the creature first enters the emana- | 
tion area. Affected creatures are aware of 
this enchantment. Therefore, they may 

avoid answering questions to which they 

would normally respond with a lie, or 

they may be evasive as long as they re- 

main within the boundaries of the truth. 

Creatures who leave the area are free to 

speak as they choose. 


(oe ai 


General ES 
Sie * and Glossary. 


The general rules for what to do when rounding fractions 
when several multipliers apply to a die roll (often encountered AR 
what to do when doubling something that is already doubled) are 
provided below, followed by a glossary of game terms. 


In general, if you wind up with a fraction, round down, even if the 
fraction is one-half or larger. For example, if a fireball deals you 17 
points of damage, but you succeed on your saving throw and only 
take half damage, you take 8 points of damage. 

Exception: Certain rolls, such as damage and hit points, have a 
minimum of 1. 


ge MP LYING 


Sometimes a special rule makes you multiply a number or a die 
roll. As long as you're applying a single multiplier, multiply the 
number normally. When two or more multipliers apply to any 
abstract value (such as a modifier or a die roll), however, combine 
them into a single multiple, with each extra multiple adding 1 less 
than its value to the first multiple. Thus, a double (x2) and a 
double (x2) applied to the same number results in a triple (x3, 
because 2 + 1 = 3). 

For example, Tordek, a high-level dwarf fighter, deals 1d8+6 
points of damage with a warhammer. On a critical hit, a war- 
hammer deals triple damage, so that’s 3d8+18 damage for Tordek. 

A magic dwarven thrower warhammer deals double damage 
(2d8+12 for Tordek) when thrown. If Tordek scores a critical hit 
while throwing the dwarven thrower, his player rolls quadruple ~ 
damage (4d8+24) because 3 + 1 = 4. 

Another way to think of it is to convert the multi- 
ples into additions. Tordek’s critical hit increases 
his damage by 2d8+12, and the dwarven <9 
thrower’s doubling of damage increases his | m 


4 


damage by 1d8+6, so both of them together gi 

increase his damage by 3d8+18 for a grand Pay x 

total of 4d8+24. 4 
When applying multipliers to real-world 

values (such as weight or distance), normal P 


rules of math apply instead. A creature whose 

size doubles (thus multiplying its weight by 8) 

and then is turned to stone (which would multiply 
its weight by a factor of roughly 3) now weighs about 
24 times normal, not 10 times normal. Similarly, a 
blinded creature attempting to negotiate difficult 
terrain would count each square as 4 squares (dou- 
bling the cost twice, for a total multiplier of x4); 
rather than as 3 squares (adding 100% twice). 


0-level spell: A spell of the lowest 
possible level. Arcane spellcasters 
often call their 0-level spells “cantrips,” 
and divine spellcasters often call them 
“orisons.” > 

5-foot step: A small position adjustment that does 
not count as ah action. Usually (but not always), a 5-foot 
step is permitted at any point in the round (such as 
before or after a full-round action, between attacks in a full 
attack, between a standard action and a move action, or 
between two move actions). You can't take a 5-foot step in 


i ne HAS a HA i 
the same round that you move any distance. You can't take a 5-foot 


step if your movement is hampered, such as into a square of diffi- 
cult terrain, in darkness, or when blinded. Taking a 5-foot step 
does not provoke an attack of opportunity, even if you move out of 
a threatened square. 

ability: One of the six basic Share qualities: Strength (str), 
Dexterity (Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligerice (Int), Wisdom 


(Wis), and Charisma (Cha). See ability score. 


ability check: A check of 1d20 + the appropriate ability modi- 
fier. , 
ability damage: A temporary loss of 1 or more ability score’! 
points. Lost points return at a rate of 1 point per day unless noted 
otherwise by the condition dealing the damage. A character with 
Strength 0 falls to the ground and is helpless. A character with 
Dexterity 0 is paralyzed. A character with Constitution 0 is dead. 
A character with Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma 0 is uncon- 
scious. 
ability decrease: A decrease in an ability score 2 thet ends when 
the condition causing it does. 
ability drain: A permanent loss of 1 or more ability score 
points. The character can only regain these points through magi- 
cal means. A character with Strength 0 falls to the ground and is 
helpless. A character with Dexterity 0 is paralyzed. A character 
with Constitution 0 is dead. A character with Intelligence, 
Wisdom, or Charisma 0 is unconscious. 
ability modifier: The bonus or penalty associated with a par- 
ticular ability score. Ability modifiers apply to die rolls for charac- 
ter actions involving the corresponding abilities. 
ability score: The numeric rating of one of the six character 
abilities (see ability). Some creatures lack certain ability scores; 
others cannot be rated in particular abilities. 
action: A character activity. Actions are divided into the fol- 
lowing categories, according to the time required to perform 
them (from most time required to least): full-round actions, stan- 
dard actions, move actions, and free actions. 
adjacent: In a square that shares a border or a corner with a 
designated square. Each square is adjacent to eight other squares 
on the board. 
adventuring party: A group of characters who adventure 
together. An adventuring party is composed of player characters 
plus any followers, familiars, animal companions, associ- 
ates, cohorts, or hirelings they might have. 
alignment: One of the nine descrip- 
tors of morality for intelligent 
creatures: lawful good 
(LG), neutral good 
(NG), chaotic 
good (CG), 
lawful neutral 
(LN), neutral (N), chaotic neutral (CN), 
lawful evil (LE), neutral evil (NE), and chaotic 
evil (CE). i 
ally: A creature friendly to you. In 
most cases, references to “allies” include 
yourself. . 
animal: A type of creature that in- 
cludes all natural animals, dire animals, giant 
animals, and some other nonmagical vertebrate 
_ creatures (see the Monster Manual). Animals 
always have an Intelligence score of 1 or 2. 
arcane spell failure: The chance that a spell 
fails and is cast to no effect because the 
* . caster’s ability to use a somatic com- 
ponent was hampered by armor. Bards 
‘2 cantignore the arcane spell failure 
chance for light armor when casting bard 
spells. 


Lidda surprises... 


arcane spells: Arcane spells involve the direct manipulation of 
mystic energies. Bards, sorcerers, and wizards cast arcane spells. 
armor bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by armor or by 


* a spell or magical effect that mimics armor. Armor bonuses stack 
_ with all other bonuses to Armor Class (even with natural armor. 


bonuses) except other armor bonuses. Magic armor typically 
grants an enhancement bonus to the armor’s armor bonus, which 
- has the effect of increasing the armor’s overall bonus. An armor 
bonus gtanted by a spell or magic item typically takes the form of 


base land speed: The speed a character can move while unar- 
mored. Base land speed is derived from character race. . 
base save bonus: A saving throw modifier derived from 
character class and level. Base save bonuses increase at 
different rates for different character classes. Base save 
bonuses gained from different classes, such as | 
when a character is a multiclass 
character, stack. 
battle grid: A play surface 


an invisible, tangible field of force around the recipient. An armor “fs © marked off in 1-inch squares, 
~ bonus doesn't apply against touch attacks, except for armor bo- which is used to keep track 
nuses granted by force effects (such as the mage armor spell) _ of the locations of crea- 
-~ which apply against incorporeal touch attacks, such as that ° tures and characters (rep- 
of a shadow. f resented by miniature fig- 
Armor Class (AC): A number representing a creature’s \ ures) during combat and 
ability to avoid being hit in combat. An opponent's attack other tactical situations. 
roll must equal or exceed the*target creature’s Armor blinded: Unable to see. _ 
r Class to hit it. Armor Class = 10 + all modifiers that A blinded character takes a 
3 apply (typically armor bonus, shield bonus, Dex- —2 penalty to Armor Class, | 
` terity modifier, and size modifier). loses his Dexterity bonus to 
artifact: A magic item of incredible power. AC (if any), moves at half 
x Some spells do not function when targeted on an speed, and takes a —4 penalty 
artifact. * on Search checks and on most 
Astral Plane: tae open, weightless plane Strength- and Dexterity-based 
that connects with all other planes of exis- skill checks. All checks and 
tence and is used for transportation activities that rely on vision 
among them (and is thus described as a (such as reading and Spot 
transitive plane, like the Ethereal checks) automatically fail. All 
Plane and the Plane of Shadow). Cer- opponents are considered to 
tain spells (such as astral projection) _ have total concealment (50% 
allow access to this plane. miss chance) relative to the 
ès attack: Any of numerous actions” blinded character. 
ngs intended to harm, disable, or neutral- - bolster undead: A super- 
_ ize an opponent. The outcome of an natural ability of evil clerics 
attack is determined by an attack roll. | (and some neutral ones). Bol- 
-attack of opportunity: A single extra stering utidead i increases the 
‘melee attack per round that a combatant resistance of those undead crea- 
can make when an opponent within tures to turning attempts. 
reach takes an action that provokes bonus: A positive modifier to a die 
attacks of opportunity. Cover prevents roll. In most cases, multiple bonuses 
attacks of opportunity. from the same source or of the same type 
attack roll: A roll to determine whether an in effect on the same character or object do not 
attack hits. To make an attack roll, roll 1d20 and add stack; only the highest bonus of that type applies. 
the appropriate modifiers for the attack type, as s fol- Bonuses that don't have a specific type always stack 
lows: melee attack roll = 1d20 + base attack bonus + with all bonuses. 
Strength modifier + size modifier; ranged attack roll = 1d20+ base _ cantrip: An arcane 0-level spell. č 
4 attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + size modifier + range penalty. cast a spell: Trigger the magical or divine energy of a spell by 
In either case, the attack hits if the result is at least as high as the means of words, gestures, focuses, and/or special materials. 
target’s Armor Class.. Spellcasting requires the uninterrupted concentration of the 
automatic hit: An attack that hits iG ea of target AC. caster during the requisite casting time. Disruption of this con- . 
Automatic hits occur on an attack roll of natural 20 or as a result of centration forces the caster to make a successful Concentration 
cettain spells. A natural 20 attack toll is also a threat—a possible check or lose the spell. Successful pean brings about the spell’s 
critical hit. listed effect or effects. § 
automatic miss: An attack that misses pate of target AC. caster level: A measure of the power with which a spellcaster 
Automatic misses occur on an attack roll of natural 1. casts a spell. Generally, a spell’s caster level is the spellcaster’s class 
barbarian (Bbn): A class made up of ferocious warriors who level. 
use inborn fury and instinct to bring down foes. caster level check: A roll of 1d20 + the caster level (in the rel- 
bard (Brd): A class made up of performers whose music and evant class). If the result equals or exceeds the DC (or the spell 
poetics produce magical effects. ; resistance, in the case of caster level checks made for spell resist- 
base attack bonus: An attack roll bonus derived from char- ance), the check succeeds. 
acter class and level. Base attack bonuses increase at different casting time: The time required to cast a spell, usually either 1 
rates for different character classes. A character gains a second standard action, 1 round, or 4 free action. Spells with casting times 
attack when his or her base attack bonus reaches +6, a third longer than 1 round require full-round actions for all the rounds 
with a base attack bonus of +11 or higher, and a fourth with a = encompassed in the casting time. 
_ base attack bonus of +16 or higher. Base attack bonuses gained Charisma\(Cha): The ability that measures a character's fice 
from different classes, such as when a character is a multiclass ; 
character, stack. = 


S ow a 


$ è 


.. and sneak attacks a troll. 


m 


4 


character: A fo individual within the confines of a fan- 
tasy game setting. The words “character” and “ creature” are often- 


used synonymously within these rules, since almost any creature } 


could be a character within the game, and every character i isa 


creature (as opposed to an object). 

character class: One of the eleven player character types— 
barbarian, bard, cleric, druid, fighter, monk, paladin, ranger, 
rogue, sorcerer, or wizard. Class defines a character’s predominant 
talents and general function within an adventuring party. Charac- 
ter class may also refer to a nonplayer character class or a prestige 


class (see the Dungeon Master’s Guide). 


character level: A character's tofal level. For a character with 


levels in only one class, class level and character level are the same 


thing. 

check: A method of determining the result when a character 
attempts an action (other than an attack or a saving throw) that 
has a chance of failure. Checks are based on a relevant character 
ability, skill, or other characteristic. Most checks are either ability 
checks or skill checks, though special types such as turning 
checks, caster level checks, dispel checks, and initiative checks 
also exist. The specific name of the check usually corresponds to 
the skill or ability used. Tomake a check, roll 1d20 and add any rel- 
evant modifiers. (Higher results are always better.) If this check 
result equals or exceeds the Difficulty Class number assigned by 
the DM (or the opponent's check, if the action is BPRS the 
check succeeds. 

checked: Prevented from achieving third motion by an 
applied force, such as wind. Checked creatures on the ground 
merely stop. Checked flying creatures move back a distance spec- 
ified in the description of the effect. 

circumstance bonus: A bonus granted because of specific 
conditional factors favorable to the success of the task at hand. 
Circumstance bonuses stack with all other bonuses, including 


other circumstance bonuses, unless they arise from essentially the ~ 


same benefit. For instance, a magnifying glass gives a +2 circum- 
stance bonus on Appraise checks involving any item that is small 
or highly detailed, such as a gem. If you had a second tool that also 
granted a circumstance bonus from improved visual acuity (such 
as a jeweler’s loupe), the circumstance bonuses wouldn't stack. 

class: See character class. ; 

class feature: Any special characteristic derived from a charac- 
ter class. 

class level: A character's level in a single class. Class es 
generally depend on class level rather than character level. 

class skill: A skill to which characters of a particular class have 
easier access than characters of other classes. Characters may buy 
class skills at a rate of 1 rank per skill point, as opposed to 1/2'rank 
per skill point for cross-class skills. The maximum rank for a class 
skill is 3 + character level. 

cleric (Clr): A class made up of characters who cast divine 
spells and are also capable in combat. 

Colossal: A Colossal creature is typically 64 feet or more in 
height or length and weighs 250,000 pounds or more. 

comatose: Effectively in a state of suspended animation. A 
comatose creature is helpless. 

command word item: A magic item that activates when the 
user speaks a particular word or phrase. Activating a command 
word item does not require concentration and does not provoke 
attacks of opportunity. 

command undead: The supernatural ability of evil clerics and 
some neutral clerics to control undead creatures by channeling 
negative energy. i 

competenċe bonus: A bonus that improves a character’s per- 
formance of a particular task, such as from the bardic ability to in- 
spire competence. Such a bonus may apply on attack rolls, saving 
throws, skill checks, caster level checks, or any other checks to 
which a bonus relating to level or skill ranks would normally 


apply. It “bo not Erio on ability checks, damage rolls, initiative 


checks, or other rolls that aren't related to a character’s level or 
skill ranks. Multiple competence bonuses don't age only the J 
highest bonus applies. 

concealment: Something that prevents an riage Lond 
clearly seeing his or her target. Concealment creates a chance that 
an otherwise successful attack misses (a miss cHance). : 

concentrate on a spell: Concentrate to maintain an active 
spell’s effect. Concentrating on a spell is a standard action and pro- 
vokes an attack of opportunity. 
` confused: Befuddled and unable to determine a course of Rone 
due to a spell or magical effect. A confused character's actions are 
determined by rolling d% at the beginning of his turn: 01—10, 
attack caster with melee or ranged weapons (or close with caster if 
attacking is not possible); 11-20, act normally; 21-50, do nothing 
but babble incoherently; 51-70, flee away from caster at top pos- 
sible speed; 71-100, attack nearest creature (for this purpose, a 
familiar counts as part of the subject's self). A confused character 
who can't carry out the indicated action does nothing but babble 
incoherently. Attackers are not at any special advantage when 
attacking a confused character. Any confused character who is 
attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next turn, as 
long as it is still confused when its turn comes. A confused character 
does not make attacks of opportunity against any creature that it is 
not already devoted to attacking (either because of its most recent 
action or because it has just been attacked). _ 

Constitution (Con): The ability that represents a character's 
health and stamina. : a 

continuous damage: Damage from a single attack that con- 
tinues to deal damage every round without the need for addi- 


_ tional attack rolls. 


copper piece (cp): The most prevalent form of currency 
among beggars and laborers. Ten copper piecés/ate equivalent to 1 
silver piece. 

coup de grace: A full round action that iws an attacker to 
attempt a killing blow against a helpless opponent. A coup de 
grace can be administered with a melee weapon, or with a bow or 
crossbow if the attacker is adjacent to the opponent. An attacker 
delivering a coup de grace automatically scores a critical hit, after 
which the defender must make a Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage 
dealt) or die. Rogues also gain their extra sneak attack damage for 
this attack. Delivering a coup de grace provokes attacks of oppor- 


-tunity from threatening foes. A coup de grace is not possible 


against a creature immune to critical hits. 

cover: Any barrier between an attacker and defender. Such a 
barrier can be an object, a creature, or a magical force. Cover 
grants the defender a bonus to Armor Class. 

cowering: Frozen in fear and unable to take actions. A cower- 
ing character takes a —2 penalty to Armor Class and loses her Dex- 
terity bonus (if any). 

creature: A living or otherwise active being, not an object. The 
terms “creature” and “character” are sometimes used interchange- 
ably. . 

creature type: One of several broad categories of creatures. 
The creature types are aberration, animal, construct, dragoħ, ele- 
mental, fey, giant, humanoid, magical beast, monstrous 
humanoid, ooze, outsider, plant, undead, and vermin. (See the 
Monster Manual for full descriptions.) 4 

critical hit (crit): A hit that strikes a vital area and therefore 
deals double damage or more. To score a critical hit, an attacker 
must first score a threat (usually a natural 20 on an attack roll) and 
then succeed on a critical roll (just like another attack roll). Criti- 
cal hit damage is usually double damage, which means rolling 
damage twice, just as if the attacker had actually hit the defender’ 
two times. (Any extra damage dice, such as from a rogue's sneak 
attack, are not rolled multiple times, but are added to the total at 
the end of the calculation.) 


en -E 


fa g 
S e, 


critical roll: A special second attack roll made in the event of a 


` threat to determine whether a critical hit has been scored. If the 


critical roll is a hit against the target creature's AC, then the origi- 


* nal attack is a critical hit. Otherwise, the original attack is a regu- 


ar hit. 


= cross-class (cc) skill: A skill that is not a class skill for a whe 


acter. Characters may buy cross-class skills at the rate of a half 


_ rank per skill point, as opposed to 1 rank per skill point for class 


skills. The most ranks a character can have in a cross-class skill is 
one-half of the class skill maximum (3 + the character’s level), 
rounded neither up nor down. 9 

cure spell: Any spell with the word “cure” in its name, such as. 
cure minor wounds, cure light wounds, or mass cure critical wounds. 

current hit points: A character's hit points at a given moment 
in the game. Current hit points go down when the character takes 
damage and go back up upon.recovery. 

damage: A decrease in hit points, an ability score, or other 
aspects of a character caused by an injury, illness, or magical 
effect. The three main categories of damage are lethal damage, 


-nonlethal damage, and ability damage. In addition, wherever it is 


relevant, the type of damage an attack deals is specified, since nat- 
ural abilities, magic items, or spell effects may grant immunity to 
certain types of damage. Damage types include weapon damage 
(subdivided into bludgeoning, slashing, and piercing) and energy 
damage (positive, negative, acid, cold, electricity, fire, and sonic). 
Modifiers to melee damage rolls apply to both subcategories of 


- weapon damage (melee and unarmed). Some modifiers apply to 
both weapon and spell damage, but only if so stated. Damage 


points are deducted from whatever character attribute has been 


harmed—lethal and nonlethal damage from current hit points, 


and ability damage from the relevant ability score). Damage heals 


è naturally over time, but can also be negated wholly or partially by 


curative magic. + 

damage reduction (DR): A special defense that allows a crea- 
ture to ignore a set amount of damage from most weapons, 
unarmed attacks, or natural weapons, but not from energy attacks, 


‘spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities. The number 


in a creature’s damage reduction is the amount of hit points of 
damage the creature ignores. The information after the slash indi- 
cates the type of weapon (such as magic, silver, or evil) that over- 
comes the damage reduction. Some damage reduction, such as 


_ that of a barbarian, is not overcome by any type of weapon. 


darkvision: An extraordinary ability possessed by some crea- 
tures that enables them to see in the dark. z 

dazed: Unable to-act normally. A dazed charagtet can a. no 
actions, but has no penalty to AC. 

- dazzled: Unable to see well because of overstimulation ofthe- 
eyes. A dazzled creature takes a—1 penalty on attack rolls, Spot 
checks, and Search checks. 

dead: A character dies when his or her hit ete drop to -10 or 
lower. A character also dies when his or her Constitution drops to 0, 
and certain spells or effects (such as failing a Fortitude save against 
massive damage) can also kill a character outright. Death causes the 
character's soul to leave the body and journey to an Outer Plane. 
Dead chatacters cannot benefit from normal or magical healing, 


_ but they can be restored to life via magic. A dead body decays nor- 


mally unless magically preserved, but magic that restores a dead 
character to life also restores the body either to full health or to its 


condition at the time of death (depending on the spell or device). 


deafened: Unable to hear. A deafened character takes a —4 pen- 
alty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen checks, and has 


a 20% chance of spell failure when casting spells with verbal com- 
» ponents. _ ; : 


deal damage: Cause damage to a target with a successful 

attack. How much damage is dealt i is usually expressed in terms of 

dice (for example, 2d6+4) and may have a situational modifier as 

well. However, damage dealt by a weapon or spell does not neces- 
ur x 


Ret see > 


P ui 


Hi t 


sarily equal damage taken by the target, because the target may 
have special defenses that negate some or all of the damage. 

death attack: A spell or special ability that instantly slays the 
target, such as finger of death. Neither raise dead nor reincarnation 
can grant life to a creature slain by a death attack, though resurrec- 
tion and more powerful effects can. 

deflection bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by a spell 
or magic effect that makes attacks veer off harmlessly. Deflection 


. bonuses stack with all other bonuses to AC except other deflec- 
* stion bonuses. A deflection bonus applies against touch attacks. 


Dexterity (Dex): The ability that measures a character’s hand- 
eye coordination, agility, reflexes, and balance. 

difficult terrain: An area containing one or more features 
(such as rubble or undergrowth) that costs 2 squares instead of 1 
square to move through. 

Difficulty Class (DC): The target nabet that a player must 


meet or beat for a check or saving throw to succeed. Difficulty _ 


Classes other than those given in specific spell or item descrip- 
tions are set by the DM using the skill rules as a guideline. 

` Diminutive: A Diminutive creature is typically between 6 
Breles and 1 foot in height or length and weighs between 1/8 
pound and 1 pound. ; 

direct a spell: Direct an active spells effect at a specific target 


* or targets. Directing a spell is a move action and does not provoke 


an attack of opportunity. 

disabled: At exactly 0 current hit points, or in negative hit 
points but stable and conscious. A disabled character may take a 
single move action or standard action each round (but not both, 
nor can she take full-round actions). She moves at half speed. 
Taking move actions doesn't risk further injury, but performing 
any standard action (or any other action the DM deems strenuous, 


including some free actions such as casting a quickened spell) 


deals 1 point of damage after the completion of the act. Unless the 
action increased the disabled character's hit points, she is now in 
negative hit points and | dying. 

dispel: Negate, suppress, or remove one Sao: existing spells 
or other effects on a creature, item, or area. Dispel usually refers to 
a dispel magic spell, though other forms of dispelling are possible. 
Certain spells cannot be dispelled, as noted in the individual spell 
descriptions. 

dispel check: A roll of 1d20 + caster level of the Rien 
making the attempt to dispel (usually used with dispel magic): The 
DC is 11 plus the level of the spellcaster who initiated the effect 
being dispelled. 

dispel turning: Channel negative energy to negate a success- 
ful turning undead attempt by a good cleric or a paladin. 

divine spells: Spells of religious origin powered by faith or by 
a deity. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers cast divine spells. 

dodge bonus: A bonus to Armor Class (and sometimes Reflex 


saves) resulting from physical skill at avoiding blows and other ill . 


effects. Dodge bonuses are never granted by spells or magic items. 
Any situation or effect (except wearing armor) that negates a char- 
acter’s Dexterity bonus also negates any dodge bonuses the char- 
acter may have (for instance, you lose any dodge bonuses to AC 
when you're flat- footed). Dodge bonuses stack with all other 
bonuses to AC, even other dodge bonuses. Dodge bonuses apply 
against touch attacks. 
domain: A granted power and a set of-nine divine spells (one 
each of 1st through 9th level) themed around a particular concept 
and associated with one or more deities. The available domains 
are: Air, Animal, Chaos, Death, Destruction, Earth, Evil, Fire, 
Good, Healing, Knowledge, Law, Luck, Magic, Plant, Protection, 
Strength, Sun, Travel, Trickery, War, and Water. 
domain spell: A divine spell belonging to a domain. Each do- 
e e spell of each spell level. In addition to their 
mplement of spells, clerics can cast one domain 


è 


"LE 


Ae: ai 


308 


K eee 


spell may be Han either of their domains. Domain spells cannot 
be exchanged for cure or inflict spells. 
double weapon: A weapon with two ends, blades, or Meade 


‘that are both intended for use in combat. Any weapon for which — 
two damage ranges are listed is a double weapon. Double weapons 
‘can be used to make an extra attack as if the wielder were fighting — 
with two weapons (light weapon in the off hand). i gy 


druid (Drd): A class made up of characters who draw energy 
from the natural world to cast divine spells and gain special magi- 
cal powers. 

Dungeon Master (DM): The player whe portrays nonplayer 


characters, makes up the story setting for the other players, and 
serves as a referee. à 


dying: Unconscious and near dt A dying character has —1 
to —9 current hit points, can take no actions, and is unconscious. 
Each round on her turn, a dying character rolls d% to see whether 


she becomes stable. She has a 10% chance of becoming stable. If _ 


she does not, she loses 1 hit point. Ifa dying character reaches —10 
hit points, she is dead. 

effective hit point increase: Hit points gained through tem- 
porary increases in Constitution score. Unlike temporary hit 
points, points gained in this manner are not lost first, and must be 
subtracted from the character's current hit points at the time the» 
Constitution increase ends. 5 

electrum: A naturally occurring-alloy of gold and silver. 

Elemental Plane: One of the Inner Planes consisting almost 
entirely of one type of element: air, earth, fire, or water. 

end of round: The point in a combat round when all the par- 
ticipants have completed all their allowed actions. End of round 
occurs when no one else involved in the combat has an action 
pending for that round. 

enemy: A creature unfriendly to you. 


energy damage: Damage caused by one of five types of energy - 


(not counting positive and negative energy): acid, cold, electricity, — 
fire, and sonic. 

energy drain: An attack that saps a creature's vital energy 
giving it negative levels, which might permanently drain the crea- 
ture’s levels. 

Energy Plane: An Inner Plane, either the Positive Energy 
Plane or the Negative Energy Plane. 

engaged: Threatening or being threatened by an enemy. 
(Unconscious or otherwise immobilized characters ate not con- 
sidered engaged unless they are actually being attacked.) 

enhancement bonus: A bonus that represents an increase in 
the sturdiness and/or effectiveness of armor or natural armor, or 
the effectiveness of a weapon, or a general bonus to an ability 
score. Multiple enhancement bonuses on the same object (in the 
case of armor and weapons), creature (in the case of natural 
armor), or ability score do not stack. Only the highest enhance- 
ment bonus applies. Since enhancement bonuses to armor or nat- 
ural armor effectively increase the armor or natural Enotes 
to AC, they don't apply against touch attacks. ~~ 

entangled: Ensnared. Being entangled impedes movement, 
but does not entirely prevent it unless the bonds are anchored to 
an immobile object or tethered by an opposing force. An entan- 
gled creature moves at half speed, cannot run or charge, and takes 
a —2 penalty on attack rolls and a —4 penalty to its effective Dex- 
terity score. An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell 
must make a Concentration check (DC 15 + the spell’s level) or 
lose the spell. 

ethereal: On the Ethereal Plane. An ethereal creature is invis- 
ible and intangible to creatures on the Material Plane, but visible 
and corporeal'to creatures on the Ethereal Plane. As such, such a 
creature is capable of moving through solid objects on the Mater- 
ial Plane and in any direction (even up or down), though all 
movement is at half speed. Ethereal beings can see and hear what 
is happening in the same area of the Material Plane to a distance of 


n 


k 


4 


60 feet, he pits Tsk; gray Au insubstantial. Force offer 
originating on the Material Plane can affect items and creatures 
that are ethereal, but the reverse is not true. - ; 

Ethereal Plane: A gray, foggy plane parallel to the Material 
Plane at all points. Creatures within the Ethereal Plane can see 
and hear into the Material Plane to a distance of 60 feet, though 
the reverse is not usually true. Force effects originating on the 
Material Plane can affect items and creatures on the Ethereal 
Plane, but the reverse is not true. Because the Ethereal Plane is 
often used for travel, it is also considered a transitive plane (like. 
the Astral Plane and the Plane of Shadow). 

exhausted: Tired to the point of significant impaitmeat An 
exhausted character moves at half speed and takes a —6 penalty to 
Strength and Dexterity. After 1 hour of complete rest, an 
exhausted character becomes fatigued. A fatigued character 
becomes exhausted by doing something else that would normally 
cause fatigue. en 

experience points (XP): A numerical measure of a character's 
personal achievement and advancement. Characters earn experi- 
ence points by defeating oppobents and overcoming challenges. 
At the end of each adventure, ‘the DM assigns experience to the 
characters based on what they have accomplished. Characters 
continue to accumulate experience points throughout their 
adventuring careers, gaining new levels in their character classes 
at certain experience point totals. 

extraordinary ability (Ex): A nonmagical special ability (as 
opposed to a spell-like or supernatural ability). 

extraplanar: Native to a plane of existence other than the 
plane on which a creature is present. On the Material Plane, an 


outsider is an extraplanar creature. On an outsider’s home plane, a 
_ native of the Material Plane is an extraplanar creature. 


failure: An unsuccessful result on a check, saving throw, or 
other determination involving a die roll. an 

fascinated: Entranced by a supernatural or spell effect. A fasci- 
nated creature stands or sits quietly, taking no actions other than * 
to pay attention to the fascinating effect, for as long as the effect 
lasts. It takes a —4 penalty on skill checks made as reactions, such 
as Listen and Spot checks. Any potential threat, such as a hostile 
creature approaching, allows the fascinated creature a new saving 
throw against the fascinating effect. Any obvious threat, such as 
someone drawing a weapon, casting a spell, or aiming a ranged 
weapon at the fascinated creature, automatically breaks the effect. 


-A fascinated creature's ally may shake it free of the effect as a stan- 


dard action. 

fatigued: Tired to the point of impairment. A fatigued charac- 
ter can neither run nor charge and takes a —2 penalty to Strength 
and Dexterity. Doing anything that would normally cause fatigue 
causes the fatigued character to become exhausted. After 8 hours 
of complete rest, fatigued characters are no longer fatigued. 

fear effect: Any spell or magical effect that causes the victim to 
become shaken, frightened, or panicked, or to suffer from some 
other fear-based effect defined in the description of the specific 
spell or item in question. 

fighter (Ftr): A class made up of characters who have excep- 
tional combat capability and unequaled skill with weapons.” 

Fine: A Fine creature is typically 6 inches or less in height or 
length and weighs 1/8 pound or less. 

flank: To be directly on the other side of a character who is 
being threatened by another character. A flanking attacker gains a 
+2 flanking bonus on attack rolls against the defender. A rogue 
can sneak attack a defender that she is flanking. 

flat-footed: Especially vulnerable to attacks at the beginning 
of a battle. Characters are flat-footed until their first turns in the 
initiative cycle. A flat-footed creature loses its Dexterity bonus to 
Armor Class (if any) and cannot make attacks of opportunity. 

force damage: A special type of damage dealt by force effects, 
such as a magic missile spell. A force effect can strike incorporeal 


creatures without the normal miss chance associated with incor- 


` poreality. 


Fortitude save: A type of saving throw, related to a character's 


+ ability to withstand damage thanks to his physical stamina. 


free action: Free actions consume a negligible amount of time, 


and one or more such actions can be performed in conjunction 


with actions of other types. 

frightened: Fearful of a creature, situation, or object. A fright- 
ened creature flees from the source of its fear as best it can. If 
unable to flee, it may fight. A frightened creature takes a —2 
penalty on all attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability 
checks. A frightened creature can use special abilities, including 
spells, to flee; indeed, the creature must use such means if they are 
the only way to escape. 

full normal hit points: An individual character’s maximum 
hit points when undamaged. 

full-round action: Full-toùñd actions consume all of a charac- 
ter’s effort during a round. The only movement possible in con- 
junction with a full-round action is a 5-foot step, which can occur 


before, after, or during the action. Some full-round actions (as 


specified in their descriptions) do not allow even this much 
movement. When using a full-round action to cast a spell whose 
casting time is 1 round, the spell is not completed until the begin- 
ning of the caster’s next turn. . 

Gargantuan: A Gargantuan creature is typically between 32 
and 64 feet in height or ene and weighs between 32,000 and 
250,000 pounds. 

gold piece (gp): The primary unit of currency used by aduen 
turers. 

grab:The initial attack required to start a grapple. To si a 
target, the character must make a successful melee touch attack. é 

granted power: The special are a cleric gains from each of 
his selected domains. 

grapple check: An opposed thee that determines a charac- 


ter’s ability to struggle in a grapple- Grapple check = 1d20 + base 


attack modifier + Strength modifier + special size modifier (+4 for 
‘every size category larger than Medium or —4 for every size cate- 
gory smaller than Medium). 

grappling: Engaged in wrestling or some other form of hand- 
to-hand struggle with one or more attackers. A grappling charac- 
ter can undertake only a limited number of actions. He does not 


_ threaten any squares, and loses his Dexterity bonus to AC (if any) 


against opponents he isn't grappling. For creatures, grappling can 
also mean trapping opponents in any number of ways (ina toothy 
maw, under a huge paw, and so on). 


half speed: When restricted to moving at half speed, count _ 


each square moved into as 2 squares, and every square of diagonal 
movement as 3 squares. If you are restricted to half speed, you 
can’t run or charge, nor can you take a 5-foot step. 

hardness: A measure of an object's ability to resist damage. 
Only damage in excess of the object’s hardness is actually 
deducted from the object's hit points upon a successful attack. 

helpless: Paralyzed, held, bound, sleeping, unconscious, or oth- 
erwise completely at an opponent’s mercy. A helpless target is 
treated as having a Dexterity of 0 (-5 modifier). Melee attacks 


_ against a helpless target get a +4 bonus. An attacker can use a coup 


de grace against a helpless target. 
hit: Make a successful attack roll. 


Hit Die/Dice (HD): In the singular form, a die rolled to gener- - 


ate hit points. In the plural form, a measure of relative power that 
is synonymous with character level for the sake of spells, magic 
items, and magical effects that affect a certain number of Hit Dice 


+ of creatures... 


hit points (hp): A measure of a character’s health or an 
object’s integrity. Damage decreases current hit points, and lost 


ie points return with healing or natural recovery. A character's 


hit point total increases permanently with additional experience 
e ae: 


and/or permanent increases in Constitution, or temporarily 
through the use of various special abilities, spells, magic items, or 
magical effects (see temporary hit points and effective hit point 
increase). 

Huge: A Huge creature is typically Ae 16 and 32 feet in 


height or length and weighs between 4,000 and 32,000 pounds. - 


incorporeal: Having no physical body. Incorporeal creatures 
are immune to all nonmagical attack forms. They can be harmed 
only by other incorporeal creatures, +1 or better magic weapons, 


“a spell5, spell-like effects, or supernatural effects. Even when struck 


by spells, magical effects, or magic weapons, however, they have a 
50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal source. In 
addition, rogues cannot employ sneak attacks against incorporeal 
beings, since such opponents have no vital areas to target. An 
incorporeal creature has no armor or natural armor bonus (or 
loses any armor or natural armor bonus it may have when corpo- 


real), but it gains a deflection bonus equal to its Charisma modi- _ 


fier or +1, whichever i is greater. Such creatures can move in any 


direction and even pass through solid objects at will, but not — 


through force effects. Therefore, their attacks negate the bonuses 
provided by natural armor, armor, and shields, but deflection 
bonuses and force effects (such as mage armor) work normally 
against them. Incorporeal creatures have no weight, do not leave 


* footprints, have no scent, and make no noise, so they cannot be 


heard with Listen checks unless they wish it. Incorporeal crea- 
tures cannot fall or take falling damage. 

inflict spell: A spell with the word “inflict” in its name, such as 
inflict light wounds, inflict moderate wounds, or mass inflict critical 
wounds. 

inherent bonus: A bonus to an ability score resulting from 
powerful magic, such as a wish. Inherent bonuses cannot be dis- 
pelled. A character is limited to a total inherent bonus of +5 to any 


ability score. Multiple inherent bonuses to a particular ability 


score do not stack, so only the best one applies. 

initiative: A system of determining the order of actions in 
battle. Before the first round of combat, each combatant makes a 
single initiative check. Each round, the participants act in order 
from the highest initiative result to the lowest. 

initiative check: A check used to determine a creature's place 
in the initiative order for a combat. An initiative check is 14.20 + 
Dex modifier + other modifiers. i 

initiative count: The result of an initiative check, expressed as 
a number that indicates when a character’s turn comes up. 
~ initiative modifier: A bonus or penalty on initiative checks. 

Inner Plane: One of several portions of the planar landscape 
that contain the primal forces—those energies and elements that 
make up the building blocks of reality. The Elemental Planes and 
the Energy Planes are Inner Planes. 

insight bonus: An insight bonus improves performance of a 


given activity by granting the character an almost precognitive . 


knowledge of what might occur. Multiple insight bonuses on the 
same character or object do not stack. Only the highest insight 
bonus applies. ® 

Intelligence (Int): The ability that determines how well a 
character learns and reasons. 

invisible: Visually undetectable. An invisible creature gains a 
+2 bonus on attack rolls against sighted opponents, and ignores its 
opponents’ Dexterity bonuses to AC (if any). (Invisibility has no 
effect against blinded or otherwise nonsighted creatures.) An 
invisible creature’s location cannot be pinpointed by visual means. 
It has total concealment; even if an attacker correctly guesses the 
invisible creature's location, the attacker has a 50% miss chance in 
combat. ` 

An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if 
immobile, oa +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Locating the 
square an invisible creature occupies requires a Spot check (DC 40 
if the creature is immobile, DC 20 if the creature moved during its 


> 


è 


pi 


Ao: Di 


310 


K eee 


last turn), modified by appropriate factors (such as an armor check 
penalty or a penalty for movement). 


kind: A subcategory of creature type. For Abate: giant isa 


“creature type, and hill giant is a kind of giant. 

known spell: A spell that an arcane spellcaster has learned anid 
can prepare. For wizards, knowing a spell means having itin their — 
spellbooks. For sorcerers and bards, knowing a spell means having 
selected it when acquiring new spells asa benefit of level advance- 
ment. 

Large: A Large Creature is typically PAREEN 8 and 16 > feet i in 


height or length and weighs between 500 and 4,000 pounds. 


lethal damage: Damage that reduces a creature's hit points. 
level: A measure of advancement or power applied to Sever 
areas of the game. See caster level, character level, class level, and 
spell level. 
light weapon: A weapon suitable for use in the wielder’s off 


hand, such as a dagger. A light weapon is considered to be an - 


object two size categories smaller than its designated wielder (for 
example, a Medium dagger is a Tiny object). 

line of effect: Line of effect tells you whether an effect (such as 
an explosion) can reach a creature. Line of effect is just like line of 
sight, except line of effect ignores restrictions on visual ability. For 


instance, a fireballs explosion doesn't care if a creature is invisible 


or hiding in darkness. 

line of sight: Two creatures can see ip other if they have line 
of sight to each other. To determine line of sight, draw an imagi- 
naty line between your space and the target's space. If any such 
line is clear (not blocked), then you have line of sight to the crea- 
ture (and it has line of sight to you). The line is clear if it doesn't 
intersect or even touch squares that block line of sight. If you can't 
see the target (for instance, if you're blind or the target is invis- 
ible), you can't have line of sight to it even if you could draw an 
unblocked line between your space and the target's. 

low-light vision: The ability to see in conditions of dim illu- 
mination as if the illumination were actually as bright as daylight. 

luck bonus: A modifier that represents good fortune. Multiple 
luck bonuses on the same character or object do not stack. Only 
the highest luck bonus applies. 

massive damage: At least 50 points of damage resulting from 
a single attack. 

masterwork: Exceptionally well-made, generally providing a 
+1 enhancement bonus on attack rolls (if the item is a weapon or 
ammunition), reducing the armor check penalty by 1 (if the item 
is armor or a shield), or adding +2 to relevant skill checks (if the 
item is a tool). s 

Material Plane: The “normal” plane of existence. 

Medium: A Medium creature is typically between 4 and8 feet 
in height or length and weighs between 60 and 500 pounds: 

melee: Melee combat consists of physical blows exchanged by 
opponents close enough to threaten one another's space, as op- 
posed to ranged combat. 

melee attack: A physical “fale suitable for close combat. 

melee attack bonus: A modifier applied to a melee attack roll. 

melee attack roll: An attack roll during melee combat, as op- 
posed to a ranged attack roll. See attack roll. 

melee touch attack: A touch attack made in melee, as opposed 
to a ranged touch attack. See touch.attack. 

melee weapon: A handheld weapon designed for close 
combat. 

miniature figure: The physical representation of a creature or 
character on the battle grid; a three-dimensional figurine. 

miss chance: The possibility that a successful attack roll 
misses anyway because of the attacker's uncertainty about the 
target’s location. See concealment. 

miss chance roll: A d% roll to determine the success of an 
attack roll to which a miss chance applies. 

modifier: Any bonus or penalty applying to a die roll. A posi- 


v 


tive moder’ Seon, a a Anva modifier is a penalty. Mod- 
ifiers from the same source do not stack, and modifiers with spe- 
cific descriptors generally do not stack with others of the same _ 
type. If more than one modifier of a type is present, only the best 
bonus or worst penalty in that grouping.applies. Bonuses or penal- 
ties that do not have descriptors stack with those that do. Wy 

monk (Mnk): A class made up of characters who are masters of — 
the martial arts and have a number of exotic powers. r 

morale bonus: A bonus representing the effects of greater 
hope, courage, and determination. Multiple morale bonuses on 
the same character do not stack. Only the highest morale bonus 
applies. Nonintelligent creatures (creatures with an Intelligence 
of 0 or no Intelligence at all) cannot benefit from morale bonuses. 

move action: An action that is the equivalent of the character 
moving his speed. Move actions include standing up from prone, 
drawing or sheathing a weapon, opening a door, loading a light 
crossbow, and moving your speed. In a typical round, a character 
can take a move action and a standard action, or he can take a 
second move action in place of his standard action. _ 

mundane: Normal, commonplace, or rae ee Also used as a 
synonym for “ ‘nonmagical. ” an 

natural: A natural result on a roll or check is the actual number 
appearing on the die, not the modified result obtained by adding 
bonuses or subtracting penalties. 

natural ability: A nonmagical capability, such as walking, 
swimming (for aquatic creatures), and flight (for winged crea- 
tures). 

natural armor bonus: A bonus to Armor Class resulting from 
a creature's naturally tough hide. Natural armor bonuses stack 
with all other bonuses to Armor Class (even with armor bonuses) 


_ except other natural armor bonuses. Some magical effects (such as 


the barkskin spell) grant an enhancement bonus to the creature's 
existing natural armor bonus, which has the’ effect of increasing 
the natural armor’s overall bonus to Armor Class. A natural armor 
bonus doesn’t apply against touch attacks. 

natural reach: The distance from which a creature can make a 
melee attack. The creature threatens all squares within that dis- 
tance from its space. 

natural weapon: A creature's body part that deals damage in 
combat. Natural weapons include teeth, claws, horns, tails, and 
other appendages. 

“nauseated: Experiencing stomach distress. Nauseated crea- 


-tures are unable to attack, cast spells, concentrate on spells, or do 


anything else requiring attention. The only action such a charac- 
ter can take is a single move action per turn, plus free actions 
(except for casting quickened spells). 

negate: Invalidate, prevent, or end an effect with respect to a 
designated area or target. 

negative energy: A black, crackling energy that originates on 
the Negative Material Plane. In general, negative energy heals 
undead creatures and hurts the living. 

Negative Energy Plane: The Inner Plane from which negative 
energy originates. 

negative level: A loss of vital energy resulting from, energy 
drain, spells, magic items, or magical effects. For each negative 
level gained, a creature takes a —1 penalty on all attack rolls, saving 
throws, skill checks, and ability checks, loses 5 hit points, and 
takes a -1 penalty to effective level. (That is, whenever the crea- 
ture’s level is used in a die roll or calculation, reduce its value by 1 
for each negative level.) In addition, a spellcaster loses one spell or 
spell slot from the highest spell level castable. If two or more 
spells fit this criterion, the caster decides which one becomes 
inaccessible. The lost spell becomes available again as soon as the 
negative level is removed, providing the caster would be capable 
of using it at that time. Negative levels remain in place for 24 
hours after acquisition or until removed. After that period, the 
negative level goes away, but the afflicted creature must make a 


Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 the attacker's Hit Dice + the attacker's 


» Cha modifier) to determine whether there is a lasting effect. If the 


saving throw succeeds, there is no harm to the character. Other- 


_ wise, the creature's character level drops by one and any benefits 


_ acquired with that level are lost. The afflicted creature must make. 
‘a separate saving throw for each negative level possessed. 
nonintelligent: Lacking an Intelligence score. Mind-affecting 


- spells do not affect nonintelligent creatures, nor can nonintelli- 


gent creatures benefit from morale bonuses. 
_ nonlethal damage: Damage typically resulting from an 


~ unarmed attack, an armed attack delivered with intent to subdue, 


a forced march, or a debilitating condition such as heat or starva- 
tion. 

nonplayer Merj (NPC): A character controlled by the 
Dungeon Master rather than by one of the other players in a game 
session, as opposed to a player character. 

off hand: A character's weaker or less dexterous hand (usually 
the left). An attack made with the off hand incurs a —4 penalty on 
the attack roll. In addition, only one-half of a character's Strength 


_ bonus may be added to damage dealt with a weapon held in the off 


hand. x 

one-handed weapon: A weapon designed for use in one hand, 
such as a longsword, often either along with a shield or a light 
weapon in the other hand. A one-handed weapon is considered to 
be an object one size category smaller than its designated wielder 
(for example, a Medium longsword is a Small object). 

orison: A divine 0-level spell. - 

Outer Plane: One of several planes of existence where spirits 
of mortal beings go after death. These planes are the homes of 
powerful beings, such as demons, devils, and deities. Individual 
Outer Planes typically exhibit the traits of one or two specific 
~ alignments associated with the beings who control them. 

_ overlap: Coexist with another effect or modifier in the same 


_ area or on the same target. Bonuses that do not stack with each — 


è 


other overlap instead, such that only the largest bonus provides its 
benefit. 

paladin (Pal): A class made up of characters <n are champi- 
ons of justice and destroyers of erik, with an array of divine 
powers. 

panicked: A panicked creature must drop anything it holds 
and flee at top speed from the source of its fear, as well as any 


_ other dangers it encounters, along a random path. It can't take any 


other actions. In addition, the creature takes a -2 penalty on 
saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks. If cornered, a pan- 
icked creature cowers and does not attack, typically using the total 
defense action in combat. A panicked creature can use special 
abilities, including spells, to flee; indeed, the creature must use 

such means if they are the only way to escape. 

paralyzed: Frozen in place and unable to move or act, such as 
by the hold person spell. A paralyzed character has effective Dex- 
terity and Strength scores of 0 and is helpless, but can take purely 
mental actions. A winged creature flying in the air at the time that 
it becomes paralyzed cannot flap its wings and falls. A paralyzed 
swimmer can't swim and may drown. A creature can move 
through a space occupied by a paralyzed creature—ally or not. 
_ Each square aeeie bya paralyzed. creature, however, counts as 
-J squares. 

party: A group o of adventurers. 


penalty: A negative modifier to a die roll. Penalties do not usu- 


ally have a type, and always stack with other penalties (except 
those from the same source) unless otherwise stated. 
petrified: Turned to stone. Petrified characters are considered 


ı unconscious. If a petrified character cracks or breaks, but the 


broken pieces are joined with the body as it returns to flesh, he is 
unharmed. Otherwise, the DM must assign some amount of per- 
manent hit point loss and/or debilitation. 
pinned: Held immobile (but not helpless) ina grapple. 
“r wad 


plane of existence: One of many dimensions that may be 
accessed by spells, spell-like abilities, magic items, or specific crea- 
tures. These planes include (but are not limited to) the Astral 
Plane, the Ethereal Plane, the Inner Planes, the Outer Planes, the 
Plane of Shadow, and various other realities. The “normal” world is 
part of the Material Plane. 

Plane of Shadow: A plane of existence that pervades the Mate- 
rial Plane. The Plane of Shadow may be accessed and manipulated 
from the Material Plane through shadows. Shadow spells make 


suso, the substance of this plane in their casting. Since some crea- 


tures use the Plane of Shadow to travel from place to place, it is 
often described as a transitive plane (like the Astral Plane and 
Ethereal Plane). y 

platinum piece (pp): A form of currency not in common cir- 
culation but occasionally found as treasure. One platinum piece is 
equivalent to 10 gold pieces. 


player character (PC): A character controlled by a player other _ 


than the Dungeon Master, as opposed to a nonplayer character. 


point of origin: The location in space where a spell or magical | 


effect begins. The caster designates the point of origin for any 
spells in which it is variable. 

points of damage: A number by which an attack reduces a 
character's current hit points. 

positive energy: A white, luminous energy that originates on 
the Positive Material Plane. In general, positive energy heals the 
living and hurts undead creatures. 

Positive Energy Plane: The Inner Plane from which positive 
energy originates. 

prerequisite: A requirement that must be met before a given 
benefit can be gained. 

profane bonus: A bonus that stems from the power of evil. 


Multiple profane bonuses on the same character or object do not 


stack, Only the highest profane bonus applies. 
' projectile weapon: A device, such as a bow, that uses mechan- 
ical force to propel a projectile toward a target. 

prone: Lying on the ground. An attacker who is prone has a —4 
penalty on melee attack rolls and cannot use a ranged weapon 
(except for a crossbow). A defender who is prone gains a +4 bonus 
to Armor Class against ranged attacks, but takes a —4 panah to 
AC against melee attacks. 

racial bonus: A bonus granted because of the culture a partic- 
ular creature was brought up in or because of innate characteris- 
tics of that type of creature. If a creature’s race changes (for 
instance, if it dies and is reincarnated), it loses all racial bonuses it 
had in its previous form. 

range increment: Each full range increment of distance be- 
tween an attacker using a ranged weapon and a target gives the 
attacker a cumulative —2 penalty on the ranged attack roll. 
Thrown weapons have a maximum range of five range incre- 


ments. Projectile weapons have a maximum range of ten range . 


increments. 
range penalty: A penalty applied to a ranged attack roll based 
on distance. See range increment. i ® 


ranged attack: Any attack made at a distance with a ranged 
weapon, as opposed to a melee attack. 

ranged attack roll: An attack roll made with a ranged weapon. 
See attack roll. 

ranged touch attack: A touch attack made at range, as 
opposed to a melee touch attack. See touch attack. 

ranged weapon: A thrown or projectile weapon designed for 
ranged attacks. 

ranger (Rgr): A class made up of characters who are particu- 
larly skilled at adventuring in the wilderness. 

ray: A beam created by a spell. The caster must succeed on a 
ranged touchvattack to hit with a ray. 

reach weapon: A long melee weapon, or one that has a long 
haft. Reach s allow the user to threaten or strike at oppo- 


s 
s 
[N 


© 


nents 10 feet away with a melee attack roll. Most sucky ‘weapons 
cannot be used to attack adjacent foes, however. ý 3 
reaction: Acting in response to a situation or circumstance 
‘beyond one’s control. For example, the DM may call for a Listen — 
check as a reaction to see if you hear something you werent ma 
‘specifically trying to hear. 
rebuke undead: A supernatural ability to make ufidead cower 
by channeling negative energy. v 
_ redirect a spell: Redirect an active spell’s Tet at a specific 
target or targets. Redirecting a spelli is a move action and z es not 
g provoke an attack of opportunity. 
Reflex save: A type of saving throw, related to a character's abil- 
ity to withstand damage thanks to his agility or quick reactions. 
regeneration: The ability of some creatures to regrow severed 
body parts and ruined organs, repair broken bones, and heal other 
damage. Severed body parts that are not reattached simply die, 
y and the regenerating creature grows replacements at a rate speci- 
i fied in the individual spell or monster description. Most damage 
dealt to a naturally regenerating creature is treated as nonlethal 
- s damage, which heals at a fixed rate. However, certain attack forms 
nt (typically fire and acid) deal damage that does not convert to non- 
lethal damage. Such damage is not regenerated. Regeneration 
does not alter conditions that do not deal damage in hit points, 
such as poison and disintegration. 
resistance bonus: A bonus on saving throws that provides 
extra protection against harm. Multiple resistance bonuses on the 
same character or object do not stack. Only the highest resistance 
bonus applies. 
resistance to energy: A creature with resistance to an energy 
type ignores a certain amount of damage dealt by that energy type 
each time it is dealt. For instance, a creature with fire resistance 10 
ignores the first 10 points of fire damage dealt by each attack. 


5 


i 


Resistance to energy doesn't affect the saving throw made against - 


the attack (if any). Multiple sources of resistance to a certain ~ 
energy type (such as a spell and a special quality of a monster) 
don't stack with each other; only the highest value applies to any 

© given attack. 

‘result: The numerical outcome of a check, attack roll, saving 
throw, or other 1d20 roll. The result is the sum of the natural die 
roll and all applicable modifiers. 

rogue (Rog): A class made up of characters who primarily rely 
on stealth rather than brute force or magical ability. : 

round: A 6-second unit of game time used to manage combat. 
“=. _ Every combatant may take at least one action every round. 

sacred bonus: A bonus that stems from the power of good. 
° Multiple sacred bonuses on the same character or object do not 
a stack. Only the highest sacred bonus applies. gA 
> saving throw (save): A roll made to avoid (at least partially) 
damage or harm. The three types of saving throws are Fortitude, 
Reflex, and Will. 
school of magic: A group of related spells that work in siinilar 
ways. The eight schools of magic available to spellcasters are abju- 
ration, conjuration, divination, enchantment, evocation, illusion, 
necromancy, and transmutation. 
scribe: Write a spell onto a scroll. 
scry: See and hear events from afar through the use of a spell or 
a magic item. 
4 shaken: Mildly fearful. A shaken character takes a -2 penalty 
on attack rolls, saving throws, skill checks, and ability checks. 
shield bonus: A bonus to Armor Class granted by a shield or 
by a spell or magic effect that mimics a shield. Shield bonuses 
stack with all other bonuses to AC except other shield bonuses. A 
magic shield'typically grants an enhancement bonus to the 
shield’s shield bonus, which has the effect of increasing the 
shield’s overall bonus to AC. A shield bonts granted by a spell or 
magic item typically takes the form of an invisible, tangible field 
3 I 2 of force that protects the recipient. A shield bonus doesn’t apply 


Ae: Bey 


` 


against Bs attacks. F 


w 
La 


sickened: Mildly ill. A sickened character takes a -2 penalty 
on all attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saving ge ia ; 
checks, and ability checks. 

silver piece (sp): The most prevalent form of currenc among 
commoners. Ten silver pieces are equivalent to 1 gold piece. ~ 

size: The physical dimensions and/or weight of a creature or P 


object. The sizes, from smallest to largest, are Fine, Diminutive, © 


Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and Colossal. 

size modifier: The bonus or penalty derived from a creatures, 
size category. Size modifiers of different kinds apply to Armor 
Class, attack rolls, Hide checks, grapple checks, and various other 
checks. 

skill: A talent that a character acquires and improves through 
training. 3 

skill check: A check relating to use of a skill. The basic skill 
check = 1d20 + skill rank + the relevant ability modifier (or simply 
1d20 + skill modifier). 

skill modifier: The bonus or penalty associated with a particu- 
lar skill. Skill modifier = skill tank + ability modifier + miscella- 
neous modifiers. (Miscellaneous modifiers include racial 
bonuses, armor check penalty, situational modifiers, and so forth.) 
Skill modifiers apply to skill checks made by characters in the 
course of using the corresponding skills. 

skill points: A measure of a character's ability to gain and 
improve skills. At each level, a character gains skill points and 

spends them to buy skill ranks. Each skill point buys 1 rank i ina 

class skill or 1/2 rank in a cross-class skill. ~ 

skill rank: A number indicating how much training or experi- 
ence a character has with a given skill. Skill rank is incorporated 


_into the skill modifier, which in turn improves the chance of suc- 


cess for skill checks with that skill. 

Small: A Small creature is typically between:2° feet and 4 feet in 
height or length and weighs between 8 pounds and 60 pounds. 

sorcerer (Sor): A class made up of characters who have inborn * 
magical ability. 

space: The amount of floor space a creature requires to fight 
effectively, expressed as one dimension of a square area (for 
example, a creature with a space of 10 feet occupies a 10-foot-by- 
10-foot area on the battle grid). Space determines how many crea- 
tures can fight side by side in a corridor, as well as how many crea- 
tures can attack a single opponent at once. A creature's space 


-depends upon both its size and its body shape. Sometimes also 


called fighting space. 

special qualities: Characteristics possessed by certain mon- 
sters (and sometimes characters) that are distinctive in some way. 
The Monster Manual has detailed information on all special quali- 
ties. 

speed: The number of feet a creature can move when taking a 
move action. ; 

spell: A one-time magical effect. The two primary categories of 
spells are arcane and divine. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers 
cast divine spells, while wizards, sorcerers, and bards cast arcane 
spells. Spells are further grouped into eight schools of magic. 

spell completion item: A magic item (typically a scroll) that 
contains a partially cast spell. Since the spell preparation step has 
already been completed, all the user need do to cast the spell is 
complete the final gestures or words normally required to trigger 
it. To use a spell completion item safely, the caster must be high 
enough level in the appropriate class to cast the spell already, 
though it need not be a known spell. A caster who does not fit this 
criterion has a chance of spell failure. Activating a spell comple- 
tion item is a standard action and provokes attacks of opportunity 
just as casting a spell does. ;~ , 

spell failure: The chancé that a spell fails and is ruined when 
cast under less than ideal conditions; when a spell is cast to no 
effect. 


spell level: A number from 0 to 9 that indicates the general 
~ power of a spell. 

spell-like ability (Sp): A special ability with effects that resem- 
_ ble those of a spell. In most cases, a spell-like ability works just 
like the spell of the same name. 


spell preparation: Part of the spellcasting process for wizards, 


clerics, paladins, rangers, and druids. Preparing a spell requires 
careful reading from a spellbook (for wizards) or devout prayers or 
meditation (for divine spellcasters). The character actually casts 
the first and lengthiest part of the spell during the preparation 
~ phase, leaving only the very end for completion at another time. 


To use a prepared spell, the character finishes the casting with the 


appropriate spell components—a few special words, some com- 
plex gestures, a specific item, or a combination of the three. A pre- 
pared spell is used up once cast and cannot be cast again until the 
spellcaster prepares it again. ores and bards need not prepare 
their spells. ate 

spell resistance (SR): A Al defensive ability that allows a 
creature or item to resist the effects of spells and spell-like abili- 
ties. Supernatural abilities are not subject to spell resistance. To 
overcome a creature's spell resistance, the caster of the spell or 
spell-like ability must equal or exceed the picaire: spell resist- 
ance with a caster level check. 

spell slot: The “space” in a spellcaster’s mind daed to hold- 
inga spell of a particular spell level. A spellcaster has enough spell 
slots to accommodate an entire day’s allotment of spells. Spellcast- 
ers who must prepare their spells in advance generally fill their 
spell slots during the preparation period, though a few slots can 
be left open for spells prepared later in the day. A spellcaster can 
always opt to fill a higher-level spell slot with a lower-level spell, if 
desired. 
_ spell trigger item: A magic item (such as a wand) that pro- 
duces a patticular spell effect. Any spellcaster whose class spell 
list includes a particular spell knows how to use a spell trigger 


item that duplicates it, regardless of whether the character knows 


(or could know) that spell at the time. The user must determine 
what the spell stored in the item is before trying to use it. To acti- 
vate the item, the user must speak a word, but no gesture or spell 
finishing is required. Activating a spell trigger item is a standard 
action and does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 

spell version: One of several variations of the same spell. 
_ The caster must select the desired version of the spell at the 
time of casting. Lesser 
restoration, dispel 


4 f é ai 


magic, and create un- 
dead are examples of 
spells with multiple 
versions. 

spellcaster: A char- 
acter capable of casting 
spells. 

splash weapon: A ranged ` 
weapon that splashes on impact, 

dealing damage to creatures who are 


Pattie ta 5 


within 5 feet of the spot where it lands as well as to targets it actu- 
ally hits. Attacks with splash weapons are ranged touch attacks. 

spontaneous casting: The special ability of a cleric to drop a 
prepared spell (but not a domain spell) to gain a cure or inflict spell 
of the same level or lower, or of a druid to drop a prepared spell to 
gain a summon nature's ally spell of the same level or lower. Since 
the substitution of spells occurs on the spur of the moment, cler- 
ics need not prepare their cure or inflict spells in advance, nor do 
_ druids need to prepare their summon nature's ally spells in advance. 


“©, »square; A square on the battle grid. A square is 1 inch on a side 


and represents a 5-foot-by-5-foot area. The terms “1 square” and “5 
feet” are generally interchangeable. 

stable: Unconscious and having a current hit point total 
between —1 and —9, but not dying. A dying character who is stable 
regains no hit points, but stops losing them at a rate of 1 per 
round. 

stack: Combine for a cumulative effect. In most cases, modi- 
fiers to a given check or roll stack if they come from different — 
sources and have different descriptors (or no descriptors at all), 
but do not stack if they have the same descriptors or come from 
the same source (such as the same spell cast twice in’succession). 
If the modifiers to a particular roll do not stack, only the best 
bonus or worst penalty applies. Dodge bonuses and circumstance 


» bonuses however, do stack with one another unless otherwise 


specified. Spell effects that do not stack may overlap, coexist inde- 
pendently, or render one another irrelevant, depending on their 
exact effects. 
staggered: Having nonlethal damage exactly equal to current 
hit points. A staggered character may take a single move action or 
standard action each round (but not both, nor can she take full- 
round actions). 
standard action: The most basic pe of action. Common stan- 
dard actions including making a melee or ranged attack, casting a 
spell, and using a magic item. In a typical round, a character can 
take a standard action and a move action, but he can't take a second 
standard action in place of his move action*** +~ ` 
Strength (Str): The ability that measures a rice muscle 
and physical power. 
stunned: A stunned creature drops everything held, can't take 
actions, takes a —2 penalty to AC, and loses his 
Dexterity bonus to AC (if any). ; 
subject: A creature affected bya 
spell. 
subschool: A category of spells 
within a school of magic. For 
example, charm and com- 
pulsion are subschools 
within the school of 
enchantment. 
subtype: A subdivision _ 
of creature type. For ex- 
ample, humans and elves are 
both of the humanoid type, 
but each of those races also 
constitutes its own sub- 


type of humanoid. 


Jozan brings afriend back 
from the dead 


cach pe 


Z OOQ 


è 


pi 


89S 


314 


Ph RT ability (Su): A magical power that eddi a 
particular effect, as opposed to a natural, extraordinary, or spell- 
like ability. Using a supernatural ability generally does not pro- 
voke an attack of opportunity. Supernatural abilities are not sub- 
ject to dispelling, disruption, or spell resistance. However, they do 
not function in areas where magic is suppressed or negated, such © 


as inside an antimagic field. -~ ki 


suppress: Cause a magical effect to cease functioning without. 
actually ending it. When the suppression ends, the spell effect 
returns, provided it has not expired in the meantime. 

surprise: A special situation that occurs at the beginning ofa 


battle if some (but not all) combatants are unaware of their oppo- 
‘nents’ presence. In this case, a surprise round happens before reg- 


ular rounds begin. In initiative order (highest to lowest), those 
combatants who started the battle aware of their opponents each 
take a standard action during the surprise round. Creatures un- 


aware of opponents are flat-footed through the entire surprise _ 


round and do not enter the initiative cycle until the first regular 
combat round. 

take damage: Be affected by damage (either lethal or non- 
lethal) from a successful attack. Damage dealt by an opponent 
does not necessarily equal damage taken, since various special 
defenses may reduce or negate agree from certain kinds of 
attacks. 

take 10:To KEE the iced of failure on certain skill checks 
by assuming an average die roll result (10 on a d20 roll). You can't 
take 10 if distracted or threatened, such as during combat. 

take 20: To assume that a character makes sufficient retries to 

obtain the maximum possible check result (as if a 20 were rolled 
on d20). Taking 20 takes as much time as making twenty separate 
skill checks (usually at least 2 minutes), Taking 20 assumes that 
the character fails many times before succeeding, and thus can't 
be used if failure carries negative consequences. 


target: The intended recipient of an attack, spell, supernatural ~ 


ability, extraordinary ability, or magical effect. If a targeted spell is 
successful, its recipient is known as the subject of the spell. 

_ temporary hit points; Hit points gained for a limited time 
through certain spells (such as aid) and magical effects. When a 
character with temporary hit points is dealt damage, deduct the 
damage from temporary hit points first, then deduct any remain- 
ing damage (if any) to the character's actual (nontemporary) hit 
points. Temporary hit points can cause a character's hit point total 
to exceed its normal maximum. 

threat: A possible critical hit. 

threat range: All natural die roll results that constitute a threat 
when rolled for an attack roll. For most weapons, the threat range 
is 20, but some weapons have threat ranges of 19-20 or 18~20. 
Any attack roll that does not result in a hit is not a threat, whether 
or not it lies within the weapon's threat range. 

threaten: To be able to attack in melee without moving from 
your current space. A creature typically threatens all squares 
within its natural reach, even when it is not its-turn to take an 
action. For a Medium or Small creature this usually includes all 
squares adjacent to its space. Larger creatures threaten more 
squares, while smaller creatures may not threaten any squares 
except their own. 

threatened square: A square within an opponent's reach. Gen- 
erally, characters threaten all adjacent squares, though reach 
weapons can alter this range. Certain actions provoke attacks of 
opportunity when taken within a threatened square. 

thrown weapon: A ranged weapon that a character hurls at an 
enemy, such as a spear, as opposed to a projectile weapon. 

Tiny: A Tiny creature is typically between 1 and 2 feet in height 
or length and weighs between 1 and 8 pounds. 

total concealment: Attacks against a target with total conceal- 
ment have a 50% miss chance. Total concealment blocks line of 
sight. See concealment. 


pee 


k 


nN T Did ; 

total eOversAttacks against a target that has total cover auto- 
matically fail. Total cover blocks line of sight and line of effect. See 
Cover Sig 4 mii 

touch Faek 46 attack in which the ee must SS ot 
with an opponent but does not need to penetrate armor. Touch 
attacks may be either melee or ranged. The target’s armor bonus, 
shield bonus, and natural armor bonus (including any enhance- 
ment bonuses to those values) do not apply to AC apagrige a touch 
attack. wa 

touch spell: A spell that delivers its effect when the caster 
touches a target creature or object. Touch spells ate delivered to 
unwilling targets by touch attacks. 

trained: Having at least 1 rank in a skill. Many skills can be 
used untrained by making a successful skill check using 0 skill 
ranks. Others, such as Spellcraft, can be used only by characters 
who are trained in that skill. > 

transitive plane: A plane of existence often used to travel 
from one place (or plane) to another. The Astral Plane, the Ethe- 
real Plane, and the Plane of Shadow are all transitive planes. 

turn: The point in the round at which you take your action(s). 
On your turn, you may perform one or more actions, as dictated 
by your current circumstances. 

turn undead: The supernatural ability to drive off or destroy 
undead by channeling positive energy. 

turned: Affected by a turn undead attempt. Turned undead flee 
for 10 rounds (1 minute) by the best and fastest means available to 
them. If they cannot flee, they cower. 

turning check: A roll of 1d20 + Charisma modifier to deter- 
mine how much positive or negative energy is able to be chan- 
neled when attempting to turn or rebuke undead. 

turning damage: The number of Hit Dice of undead that are 
turned or rebuked with a particular turning check. Turning 
damage = 2d6 + cleric level + Charisma modifier: 

two-handed weapon: A weapon designed for use in two 
hands, such as a greatsword. A two-handed weapon is considered + 
to be an object of the same size as its designated wielder (for 
example, a Medium greatsword is a Medium object). 

type: See creature type. 

unarmed attack: A melee attack made with no weapon in hand. 

unarmed strike: A successful blow, typically dealing non- 
lethal damage, from a character attacking without weapons. A 
monk can deal lethal damage with an unarmed strike, but others 


-deal nonlethal damage. 


unconscious: Knocked out and helpless. Unconsciousness 
can result from having current hit points between —1 and —9, or 
from nonlethal damage in excess of current hit points. A character 
who is unconscious as a result of having current hit points 
between —1 and —9 who becomes stable has a 10% chance every 
hour to become conscious. A character who is unconscious as a 
result of having nonlethal damage in excess of current hit points 
has a 10% chance every minute to wake up and be staggered. 

untrained: Having no ranks in a skill. Many skills can be used 
untrained by making a successful skill check using 0 ranks and 
including all other modifiers as normal. Other skills can be used 
only by characters who are trained in that skill. 

use-activated item: A magic item that activates upon typical 
usage for a normal item of its type. For example, a character can 
activate a potion by drinking it, a magic sword by swinging it, a 
lens by looking through it, or a cloak by wearing it. Characters do 
not learn what a use-activated item does just by wearing or using 
it unless the benefit occurs automatically with use. 

Will save: A type of saving throw, related to a character's ability 
to withstand damage thanks to his mental toughness. 

Wisdom (Wis): The ability that describes a character's will- 
power, common sense, percéption, and intuition. 

wizard (Wiz): A class made up of characters who are schooled 
in the arcane arts. 


x 


al 


a 


si 


Index 


Note: Page references in this 
index point to significant lo- _ 
cations in Chapters 1-11 where 


_ these topics are discussed. For 


definitions of game terms and 
concepts, refer to the Glossary 


_ beginning on page 304. 


_ O-level spells 181, 183, 189, 192 


in spellbook 179 
5-foot step 138, 144, 145 
abilities and spellcasters 7 
ability checks 65, 66 


ability damage 134 4 
healing 146 è; 
ability drain 10, 145 RES 


_ restoring 272 
ability modifiers 7 


ability scores 7 


changing 10 
generating 10 
racial adjustments 11, 12 > 
rerolling8 — ` 
abjuration (school) 57, 172 — 
- abundant step (monk) 42 
AC bonus (monk) 40 


~ Acrobatic 89 


actions in combat 138 


_ activate magic item (action) 


142 
advancing a level 58 


for multiclass characters 60 


adventuring gear 126 


_ age (of characters) 109 


Agile 89 
aging effects 109 
‘aid another (skill check) 65 
aid another (special attack) 154 
aiming a spell 175 
Air domain 185 
alchemical items 128 
_ Alertness 89 
alignment 103 
for classes 23 
~ of clerics 31 
_ of deities 106 
domains 32 
and spells 33, 35 
ammunition 113 
Animal Affinity 89. 
animal companion (druid) 35 
(ranger) 48 
Animal domain 186 
Appraise 67 
arcane magical writings 178 
arcane spell failure 56, 122 
_ arcane spells 177 
“and armor 56 
area (of a spell) 175 
“armed” unarmed attacks 139 
armor 122 
barding 131 


= encumbrance 161 


<S 
al 


getting into and out of 123 
for unusual creatures 123 
armor bonus 122 ‘ 


* and Armor Class 134 


armor check penalty 122 


Le 


Armor Class 134 
modifiers 151 
of objects 166 
Armor Proficiency 89, 122 
Astral Plane 171, 173, 201, 213 
Athletic 89 
attack (action) 139 
attack bonus 134 
attack roll 134,139. 
modifiers 154 
attacks, multiple 140 
attacks of opportunity 137 
when castingaspell140 
unarmed attacks 139 
Augment Summoning 89 
aura (cleric) 32 
aura of courage (paladin) 44 
aura of good (paladin) 44 
automatic failures and 
successes 136 
automatic misses and hits 139 
awareness and surprise 137 
background (of characters) 110 
Balance 67 | 
barbarian 24 
bard 26 
bardic knowledge 28 
bardic music 29 
readying of spells 179 
spells 28, 179, 181 
barding 131 
base attack bonus 22 
base save bonus 22 


battle grid 133, 134 


big and little creatures in 
combat 149 


_ Blind-Fight 89 g 


BETEZ e | 
bolstering undead 159 
bonus feats (fighter) 38, 87 
(human) 13 
(monk) 41 
(rogue) 51 


~~ (wizard) 57 


bonus spells 8 f “5g 
bonus types 171 — 

breaking and entering 165 
breaking items 167 


-Brew Potion 89 


bringing back the dead 171 


_ bull rush (special attack) 154 


burst (spell area) 175 


=- calling (subschool of 


conjuration) 172 


a camouflage (ranger) 48 


„carrying capacity 161 - 
for bigger and smaller 
creatures 162 


“cast a quickened spell (free 


action) 144 
cast a spell (action) 140, 143 
caster level 171, 181 
caster level checks 65 
casting spells 169 
concentration checks 140, 
170 
on the defensive 140 
_ while mounted 157 
casting time (of a spell) 174 


cease concentration on spell 
(free action) 144 
Chaos domain 186 
chaotic evil 106 k 
chaotic good 105 
chaotic neutral 105 
character level 59 
charge (special attack) 154 
readying weapon against 155 
- Charisma 9, 10 
“= thirm (subschool of 
enchantment) 173 
class features 24 
class level 59 
class skills 23, 61 
Cleave 92 
cleric 30 
domains 32, 185 
spells 32,183 
spontaneous casting 32, 180 
Climb69  * è 
clothing 131 
code of conduct (paladin) 44 
coins 112 
„combat 133 — 
mounted 157 
combat basics 135 
Combat Casting 92 
Combat Expertise 92 
Combat Reflexes 92 


a 


combat round 138 ó 

combat style (ranger) 48 

combat style mastery (ranger) 
48 


combining magical effects 171 
combining skill attempts 65 
command word items 142 
command undead 159 
components (of a spell) 174 ~ 
compulsion (subschool of 
enchantment) 173 
concealment 152 
Concentration 69 
concentration (ona spell) 140 
cone (spell area) 175 > 
conjuration (school) 57, 173 


~ Constitution 9 


increases in 146 
copper piece 112 . 
countersong (bard) 29 
counterspells 170 

and ready action 160 r 
coup de grace153 
cover 150 
Craft 70 
Craft Magic Arms and 

Armor 92 
Craft Rod 92 
Craft Staff 92 x 
Craft Wand 92 
Craft Wondrous Item 92 
crawling (movement) 142 
creation (subschool of 
conjuration) 173 
creature size and scale 149 
creatures, big and little 
carrying capacity 162 
in combat 149 


ĉċross-class skill 61, 62 
customizing your character 110 
cylinder (spell area) 175 
damage 134, 145 
lethal 145 
massive 145 
- minimum 134 
multiplying 134 
nonlethal 139 
to objects 165 i 
rolls 139 > 
Strength bonus to 134 
types 114 
unarmed strike 139 
of weapons 114, 116 
damage reduction (barbarian) 
26 


Death domain 186 


dead 145 

bringing back 171 
Deceitful 93 
Decipher Script 71 
defensive roll (rogue) 51 
Deflect Arrows 93 
deflection bonus 136 
Deft Hands 93 
deities 32, 106 
delay (action) 160 
descriptor (of a spell) 174 
Destruction domain 186 
detect evil (paladin) 44 
Dexterity 8 

modifier 134 
diamond body (monk) 42 
diamond soul (monk) 42 
Diehard 93 
difficult terrain 148 
Difficulty Class 63 «~ 

of saving throws 136 
Diligent 93 
Diplomacy 71 
direct or redirect a spell 

(action) 143 i 

Disable Device 72 
disabled 145 
disarm (special attack) 155 ` 
disbelief (saving throw) 173 
Disguise 72 
dispel check 223 
dispelling turning 159 | 
distance, measuring 147 


- divination (school) 57, 173 


divine focus component 174 
divine grace (paladin) 44 
divine health (paladin) 44 
divine magical writings 180 _ 
divine spells 179 

Dodge 93 


` dodge bonuses 136 


domain spells 32, 185 
double weapons 113° 
draw or sheathe a weapon 142 
drop an item (free action) 144 
drop prone (free action) 144 
druid 33 

spells 34, 189 


~ duration (of a spell) 176 


dwarves 14 

dying 145 

Earth domain 186 
J 

ka F 


nat 4 : fe TIE be j 
pos k A Ee i 
aw sty ath ie $ 2E 
as Se isthe We y ua" A * oe 
Toit ay E eC p Hi 
i wy bd N 2 
effect a a spell) 175 i -Good domain E te E Ta inappropri ly size ig SEN shooting or throwing 
elves15 - good vs. evil 104 PAE EER ne into 140 we 
emanation (spell area) 175 _ goods and services 126 ti f ha indomitable ote E ` melee attacks 139 fe 
_ Empower Spell par oe  grabbingitems 154. P influencing NPC attitudes 72. melee Weapons 112 i EF 
empty body (monk) 42 grapple (special attack) 155 initiative 136 metamagic fgati ER. Sis. AOA = si a) 
enchantment (school) 57, 173 Great Cleave 94 ye : and delay action 160 mighty rage (barbarian) 26 w% S 
encumbrance 161 _ - Great Fortitude 94 en ğ inaction 137 SR. ; miss chance (concealment) 152 — i 
? _ Endurance barrett i, “o » greater y e (barbarian) 26 for monsters 136. A ýs Mobili 98 ae t Rg 
j (ranger) 48 _ Greater Spell Focus 94 — and ready action 160 monk: ) : A 
ae energy attacks on objects 165. Greater Spell Penetration 94 initiative checks 136 E ce pr Tarpuna steed b 
v ; y Rao aa i bonuses 136 _ Greater Two-Weapon Fighting injury and death nag + a i aoa Di 
es Enlarge Spell 94 us gare OS : * = inspire competence (bard) 29 Mounte chery 98 
2 equipment 111 , Greater Weapon Focus 95. - inspire courage (bard) 29 -Mounted Combat 98 
A -availability 112 -Greater Weapon Specialization inspire greatness (bard) 29 = mounted combat (special 
| a Escape Artist 73 j 95 - _inspire heroics (bard) 29 attack) 157 
A ? | Eschew Materials 94 _ half-elves 18 Intelligence 9, 10 mounted movement 164 
Ethereal Plane 206, 227, 228, half-orcs 18 Intimidate 76 — F mounts and related gear 131 
aq X 247, 261, 293 ` halflings 19 Investigator 97 mounts and vehicles 164 
| ý evasion (monk) 41 ampered movement 147, 1 : ron 97 2 move 5 feet throu icult 
i i k hampered 47,163 Iron Will N feet through difficuli 
; (ranger) 48 Handle Animal 74 ù item creation feats 88 terrain (action) 144 F 
s s (rogue) 50 hardness 165 Jump 77 y =. „move: action 138, 142 
e Evil domain 186 Heal 75” 6 _ ki strike (monk) 41 * “Move Silently 79 
: evocation (school) 57, 173 eh j healing 146 . : Knowledge 78 T . movement 146, 162 
ý ‘ Exotic Weapon Proficiency 945° ale ability damage 146 _ Knowledge domain 187 diagonal 147 
exotic weapons 112 Yea g magical 146 languages 12, 82 hampered 147, 163 
experience points 22, 58 natural 146 - : bonus (cleric) 33 4 local 163 
_ for multiclass characters 60 x > nonlethal damage 46 "OR bonus (druid) 35 modes of 163 
> -exploration 164 _ i healing (subschool of i bonus (wizard) 57 mounted 164 
Extend Spell 94 conjuration) 173 ` class-related 12 overland 164 A 
Extra Turning 94 Healing domain 187 law vs. chaos 104 Small characters 20 
extraordinary abilities 142, 180 height and weight (of Law domain 187 | squeezing 148,149 ~ 
: familiars 52 characters) 109 lawful evil 105 tactical 147, 163 
phan (sorcerer) 54 Heighten Spell 95 Ws lawful good 104 moving around corners 147 
á (wizard) 57 helpless defenders 145, 153 lawful neutral 105 . moving through a square 147 
Far Shot 94 Hide 76 lay on hands (paladin) 44 multiclass cHaracters 59 
fascinate (bard) 29 © hide in plain sight (ranger) 48 = Leadership 97 - multiple attacks 140 
fast movement (barbarian) 25 Hit Die 23 lethal damage 145 multiplying damage 134 
(monk) 41 m; hit points 136 unarmed strike 139 natural abilities 180 
favorable and unfavorable _ loss of 145 level (of a spell) 174 : natural armor 136 
conditions 64, 150 objects 165 level advancement 58 natural healing 146 
favored class 11, 60 holding the charge 141, 176 level loss 171 a natural reach 148, 149 
favored enemy (ranger) 47 humans 12 restoring 272 s Natural Spell 98 
feats 87, 90-91 hustle (movement mode)™163 lifting and dragging 162 nature sense (druid) 35 
feint (special attack) 155 s illiteracy (barbarian) 25 light sources 164 necromancy (school) 57, 174 
fighter 37 illusion (school) 57,173 + light weapons 113 ` negative energy 159, 160 
i _ fighter bonus feats 87 Improved Bull Rush 95 Lightning Reflexes 97 Negotiator 98 
ir 1 fighting defensively 140, 143 improved combat style (ranger) line (spell area) 175 neutral 105 
J figment (subschool of illusion) 48 y ~ line of effect 176 neutral clerics and undead 160 
an a 173 Improved Counterspell 95, line of sight 139 neutral evil 106 
ee , Fire domain 187 © ‘Improved Critical 95 * Listen 78 neutral good 105 
z flanking 152, 153 Improved Disarm 95 J local movement 163 . Nimble Fingers 98 
flat-footed 137 y improved evasion (monk) 42 looks (of characters) 110 nonlethal damage 146 
flurry of blows (monk) 40 (rogue) 51 x Luck domain 187 healing 146 
focus component 174 - Improved Feint 95 Magic domain 188 7 NPC attitudes 72 
food, drink, and lodging 134 Improved Grapple 95 Magical Aptitude 97 objects 165 
y forced march 164- Improved Initiative 96 magical healing 146 . Armor Class 165 z 
Forge Ring 94 ‘ Improved Overrun 96 manipulate an item 143 $ damage to 165. “4, 
= Forgery 74 > Improved Precise Shot 96 Manyshot 97 i energy attacks against 165 4 
f Fortitude saving throws 136 Improved Shield Bash 96 mapping 166 hit points 165 i 
free action 139 Improved Sunder 96 Martial Weapon Proficiency 97 saving throws 166 ` 
full attack (action) 143 Improved Trip 96 ` martial weapons 112 - obstacles (to movement) 148 t 
full-round action 139 Improved Turning 96 ` mass suggestion (bard) 30 < one-handed weapons 113 
se i Gather TRE # À Pototan massive RER 145 - Open Lock A ; 
3 getting into and out of armor Fighting 96 masterwork armor 126 : opportunist (rogue) 51 
L 123 Improved Unarmed Strike 96 masterwork weapons 122 opposed checks 64 
glamer (subschool of illusion) improved uncanny dodge material component 174 1 overland movement 164 
4. 173 (barbarian) 26 : Maximize Spell 97 overrun (special attack) 157 
gnomes 16 7 Re? (rogue) 50 maximum Dex bonus 122! paladin 42 
gold piece 112 improvised weapons 113 measuring distance 147 } spells 42, 191 


starting money 111 f à é i paladins mount 45 


* og na -* ê ; y è 
n ‘ zy j ‘ a n E 
oe SUAIN a’? z OERA r = S 


SS i A | =r TS f to 


pattern (subschool of illusion) 


E- 173 


L 


perfect self (monk) 42 
Perform 79 


"personality (of characters) 110 


Persuasive 98 


phantasm (subschool of d 


illusion) 173 7 


- Plane of Shadow 265,276, 277° 
Plant domain 188 


_ platinum piece 112 


player knowledge 78 

Point Blank Shot 98 : 

point of origin (of a spell) 175, 
176 

positive energy 159, 160 3 

Power Attack 98 


practically impossible tasks 65 Se ý 
preparing divine spells 179 


preparing wizard spells 177 


_ Precise Shot 98 


prerequisites (of feats) 87 
Profession 80 

projectile weapons 113. 
Protection domain 188 
purity of body (monk) 41 


- Quick Draw 98 


Quicken Spell 98 S 


__ quivering palm (monk) 42 


race, choosing 11 
rage (barbarian) 25 


-range (ofa spell) 174 


range increment 114 


" range penalty 134 


ie attacks 139 


_ ranged touch attack 158, 175 


ranged weapons 112 
sepeer 46 

* spells 47,191 
Rapid Reload 99 
Rapid Shot 99 
ray (spell effect) 175 
reach weapons 112, 137 


ready (action) 160 
-ready or loose a shield (action) __ 


142 

rebuke undead 159 
recovering hit points 146 
Reflex saving throws 136 

-cover bonus 151 
religion 106 
remove disease (paladin) 44 
resist nature's lure (druid) 37 
restricted activity 139 
rewards, other 168 
Ride 80 
Ride-By Attack 99 Bt 
rogue 49 
round (combat) 138 


~ Run (feat) 99 


run (action) 144 


run (movement mode) 163 


saving throws 136 
_and illusions 173 


for objects 166 


<S 
al 


t 


against spells 176- 


school specialization 57 
schools of magic 172 

~ Scribe Scroll 99 
(wizard) 57 


š 


scrying (subschool of 
divination) 173 
Search 81 
Self-Sufficient 100- 
selling loot 112 
Sense Motive 81 


shadow (subschool of illusion) 


173 
shapeable spells 176 . 
shield bonus 122 
Shield Proficiency 100 
Shot on the Run 100 
Silent Spell 100 
silver piece 112 
Simple Weapon Proficiency 
100 
simple weapons 112 
size (of creatures) 149, 150 
(of weapons) 113 
size modifiers 134, 136 
for grappling 156 
skill checks 63 


’ time 64 


Skill Focus 100 
skill mastery (rogue) 51 
skills 61, 63 
access to 64 
synergy 66 
sleeping in armor 122 
Sleight of Hand 81 
slippery mind (rogue) 51 
slow fall (monk) 41 
Small characters 20 
_ smite evil (paladin) 44 
Snatch Arrows 100 
sneak attack (rogue) 50 
_ somatic component 174 
song of freedom (bard) 29 
sorcerer 51 
readying of spells 179 
spells 54, 179, 192 
space (of a creature) 149 
speak (free action) 144 
“Speak Language 82 
_ special attacks 154 
special mount (paladin) 44 ; 
special substances and items 
128 
 specialistavizards 57 
speed 136 — 
and armor 122 
bonuses to 147 


ù 


ss ~ tactical447 


spell chains 181 

spell completion items 142 
Spell Focus 100__ 
‘Spell Mastery 100° 
Spell Penetration 100 

“ spell preparation 177, 179 

spell resistance 177 
spell slots 178, 180 
spell trigger items 142 
spell version 170 
spellbooks 57, 178 
spellcasting and services 132 
Spellcraft 82 
spell-like abilities 142, 180 
. on the defensive 142 
spells, metamagic 88 
sphere (spell area) 175 


e 


4 


sae 


-Track 104 


Spirited Charge 100 
splash weapons 128, 158 
spontaneous casting 180 
(cleric) 32 S 
(druid) 35 
and metamagic feats 88 
Spot 83 
spread (spell effect or area) 175 
Spring Attack 100 


J squeezing movement 148, 149 


“Stable characters and recovery 
145 

stacking effects 171 

stand up (action) 143 

standard action 138 

start/complete full-round 
action (action) 142 

starting gold 111 

starting packages 24, 111 


Stealthy 104 © 
still mind (monk) 41. | 
Still Spell 101 

Strength 8 


modifier 134 
tremendous 162 
Strength domain 188 
Stunning Fist 101 
suggestion (bard) 29 
summoning (subschool of 
conjuration) 173 
Sun domain 188 6 
sunder (special attack) 158 
supernatural abilities 142, 180 
surprise 137 
Survival 83 
swift tracker (ranger) 48 
Swim 84 3 
synergy (of skills) 66 
tactical movement 147 — ~- 
take 5-foot step (free action) 
144 y 
taking 10 65 
taking 20 65 
target (of a spell) 175 
teleportation (subschool of 
= conjuration) 173 
temporary hit points 146 
terrain and obstacles 148 
thousand faces, a (druid) 37 
threatened squares 137 
threat range 114, 140 
throw splash weapon (special ” 
attack) 158 
thrown weapons 113, 158 
improvised 113 
timeless body (druid) 37 
(monk) 42 
tireless rage (barbarian) 26 
tongue of the sun and moon 
(monk) 42 
tools and skill kits 129 
total defense (action) 142 
touch attacks 136, 141 
touch spells 176 
in combat 140 
Toughness 101 
Tower Shield Proficiency 101 


trade goods 112 
Trample 101 
transmutation (school) 57, 174 
transport 132 
trap sense (barbarian) 26 
(rogue) 50 
trapfinding (rogue) 50 
traps 73 
Travel domain 188 
treasure 167 i 
Trickery domain 189 
trip (special attack) 158 
trying again (on skill check) 64 
Tumble 84 
turn or rebuke undead (special 
attack) 159 
(cleric) 33 
(paladin) 44, 
turning checks 159 
two-handed weapons 113 
Two-Weapon Defense 102 
Two-Weapon Fighting 102 
two-weapon fighting (special 
attack) 160 
unarmed attacks 139 r 
unarmed strike (monk) 41 
unaware combatants 137 
uncanny dodge (barbarian) 26 
(rogue) 50 
unconscious 146 
universal (spell category) 57 
untrained skill checks 64 
use feat (action) 145 
Use Magic Device 85 
Use Rope 86 
use skill (action) 145 
use special ability (action) 142 
use- -actiVatedritems 142 
venom immunity (druid) 37 
verbal component 174 
version (of a spell) 170 
vision and light 164 
vital statistics 109 i 
walk (movement mode) 163 
War domain 189 
Water domain 189 
wealth and money 112 
Weapon Finesse 102 
Weapon Focus 102 
Weapon Specialization 102 


weapons 112 


- 


size of 113 
types of 114 

weight (of characters) 109 
(of gear) 161 

Whirlwind Attack402 © 


wholeness of body (monk) 42 . 


Widen Spell 102 


` wild empathy (druid) 35 


(ranger) 47 
wild shape (druid) 37 
Will saving throws 136 
Wisdom 9, 10 
withdraw (action) 143 
wizard 55 
preparing spells 177 
spells 56, 177, 192 
woodland stride (druid) 36 
(ranger) 48 
XP cost (spell component) 174 
Kd 


& 


a? 
: 


DUNGEONS p 
SRAGONS 


CHARACTER RECORD SHEET 


CHARACTER NAME PLAYER 
CLASS AND LEVEL RACE ALIGNMENT DEITY 
SIZE AGE GENDER HEIGHT WEIGHT EYES HAIR SKIN 
ABILITY NAME SCORE MODIFIER SCORE MODIFIER. TOTAL WOUNDS/CURRENT HP NBAMACE 


STR 


STRENGTH 


DEX 


DEXTERITY 


LIL] 
E p 
LIL] 


CON 


CONSTITUTION 


INT 


INTELLIGENCE 


WIS 


WISDOM 


CHA 


CHARISMA 


SAVING THROWS 
FORTITUDE 
(CONSTITUTION) 
REFLEX 
(DEXTERITY) 


HIT POINTS 


ARMOR CLASS 


AMMUNITION 


TOTAL 


SHIELD 


BONUS BONUS 


DEX 
MODIFIER 


SIZE 
MODIFIER 


NATURAL 
ARMOR 


DEFLECTION 
MODIFIER 


SPEED 


ee T 
O- OO -aa 


ARMOR 


DAMAGE REDUCTION 


L |] 


MISC 
MODIFIER 


AMMUNITION 


AMMUNITION 


AMMUNITION 


“j MAX RANKS 
CIC (| ae E SKILLS erst 
a KEY SKILL ABILITY MISC 
[| [| eq SKILL NAME ABILITY | MODIFIER | mopiFier | RANKS | MODIFIER 
INITIATIVE [i G 
DEX MISC APPRAISE E INT = + + 
TOTAL MODIFIER MODIFIER | 
BALANCE E DEX* = * * 
BASE ABILITY MAGIC MISC. TEMPORARY 
TOTAL SAVE MODIFIER MODIFIER MODIFIER MODIFIER | CONDITIONAL MODIFIERS BLUFF E CHA = + + 
DE E G C t cune m a 
CONCENTRATION E CON = +. +. 
LCH HOPE H OTO wr. [= 
= + + 
CEPE PE E i a) 
CRAFT E ( ) INT = +. ap 
DECIPHER SCRIPT INT = + + 
SPELL z= 
DIPLOMACY E CHA = * + 
RESISTANCE M 
DisABLe DEVICE INT = +. * 
GRAPPLE DISGUISE E CHA = + * 
MODIFIER. ESCAPE ARTIST E DEX* = + + 
TOTAL BASE ATTACK STRENGTH SIZE MISC 
BONUS MODIFIER MODIFIER MODIFIER FORGERY E INT = + +. 
GATHER INFORMATION @ CHA = +. * 
ATTACK ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE CRITICAL HANDLE ANIMAL CHA f= i i 
HEAL E wis = +, * 
HIDE E DEX* = +, * 
NTIMIDATE E CHA a +. a: 
UMP E STR* = +, * 
NOWLEDGE ( ) INT = +. F 
ji 
NOWLEDGE ( ) INT = + +. 
NOWLEDGE INT = +. aa 
ATTACK ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE CRITICAL ( ) 
NOWLEDGE ( ) INT = + + 
NOWLEDGE ( ) INT = +. +. 
LISTEN W wis = + +, 
Move SILENTLY E DEX* = +, + 
OPEN Lock DEX = + + 
PERFORM ( ) CHA = +. # 
ATTACK PERFORM ( ) CHA = +. +. 
ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE CRITICAL PERFORM ( ) CHA = + + 
PROFESSION ( ) wis = + +. 
PROFESSION ( ) wis = +. +. 
RIDE W DEX = + + 
SEARCH E INT = +. Hf. 
ol ol SENSE MOTIVE @ WIS = + + 
SLEIGHT OF HAND DEX* = + * 
ATTACK ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE CRITICAL SPELLCRAFT INT = E na 
SPOT E WIS = + + 
SURVIVAL E WIS = oH. F 
SWIM E STR* z +, +. 
TUMBLE DEX* = + * 
Use Macic Device CHA = + + 
Use ROPE @ DEX = * + 
= + + 
ATTACK ATTACK BONUS DAMAGE CRITICAL mn | 
= + + 
E + + 
E Denotes a skill that can be used untrained. 
Mark this box with an X if the skill is a class skill for the character. 


AMMUNITION 


* Armor check penalty, if any, applies. (Double penalty for Swim.) 


©2003 WizarDs OF THE Coast, INC. Permission granted to photocopy for personal use only. 


CAMPAIGN PG. DOMAINS/SPECIALTY SCHOOL: 


EXPERIENCE POINTS 


Ist: 
2ND: 
SPELL FAILURE SPECIAL PROPERTIES 
3RD: 
SPECIAL ABILITIES 
PROTECTIVE ITEM AC BONUS |WEIGHT| SPECIAL PROPERTIES BG: 
ATH: 
STH: 
e x PO e 
ITEM PG. WT. ITEM PG. | WT. 
6TH: 
7TH: 
8TH: 
OTH: 
DC MOD 
ARCANE SPELL FAILURE | J% 
CONDITIONAL MODIFIERS 
SPELLS SPELL SPELLS BONUS 
KNOWN SAVE DC LEVEL PER DAY SPELLS 
0 0 
TOTAL WEIGHT CARRIED IST 
3RD 
LIGHT MEDIUM HEAVY LIFTOVER LIFTOFF PUSH OR 
LOAD LOAD LOAD HEAD GROUND DRAG Initial languages = Common + racial 4TH 
AAD Mo OAD Mae aD languages + one per point of Int bonus 
5 5TH 
6TH 
cp — 
= 7TH 
= 8TH 
Pp — 
9TH 


©2003 Wizarps OF THE Coast, INC. Permission granted to photocopy for personal use only. 


ot. Bay 


A spell of the polymorph subschool changes the subject’s form 
from one shape to another. Incorporeal creatures or those in gas- 
eous form are immune to polymorph spells, as are creatures of the 
ooze or plant type. Unless otherwise noted in the spell’s descrip- 
tion, the subject of a polymorph spell takes on all the statistics 
and special abilities of an average member of the assumed form in 
place of its own except as follows. . 


e If the subject has the shapechanger subtype, it retain *that 
subtype. A creature of the shapechanger subtype can reyert to 
its natural form as a standard action, ending the spell’s effect. 

* The subject retains its own alignment and personality, within 
the limits of the assumed form’s ability scores. 

e The subject retains its own hit points. = ~~ 

e The subject is treated has having its normal Hit Dice for 
purpose of adjudicating effects based on HD, such as the sleep 
spell, though it uses the assumed form’s base attack bonus, base 
save bonuses, and all other statistics derived from Hit Dice. 

e The subject retains the ability. to understand the languages 
it understands in its natural form. If the assumed form is 
normally capable of speech, the subject retains the ability to 
speak these languages as well. It can write in the languages it 
understands, but only if the assumed form is capable of writing 
in some manner—even a primitive manner, such as drawing in 
the dirt with a paw. 


In all other ways, the subject's normal game statistics are effec- 
tively replaced.by those of the assumed form. The subject loses all 
the special abilities it has in its natural form, including its class 


features, even if the assumed form would normally be able to use 
these class features. 

Ifthe assumed form’s size is different from the subject’s normal 
size, its new space must share as much of the natural form’s space 
as possible, squeezing into the available space (see Squeezing, 
page 148) if necessary. If insufficient space exists for the assumed 


_ form, the spell fails. 


Any gear worn or carried by the subject melds into the assumed 
form and becomes nonfunctional. When the subject reverts to its 
natural form, any objects previously melded into the assumed. 
form reappear in the same location on its body they previously 
occupied and are once again functional. Any new items worn in 
the assumed form fall off and land at the subject’s feet. 

The spellcaster can freely designate the assumed form’s minor 
physical qualities, such as hair color and skin color, within the 
normal ranges for the assumed form’s kind. ogi 

The assumed form’s significant physical qualities, such as 
height, weight, and gender, are also under the spellcaster’s con- 
trol, but they must fall within the norms for the assumed form's 
kind. The subject of a polymorph spell is effectively camouflaged 
as a creature of its assumed form, and it gains a +10 bonus on Dis- 
guise checks if it uses this ability to create a disguise. 

If the subject of a polymorph spell is slain or rendered uncon- 
scious, the spell ends. Any part of the body that is separated from 
the whole remains polymorphed until the effect ends. 

Polymorph Subschool and Preexisting Spells: Any spell 
based on either alter self or polymorph should be considered to have 
the polymorph subschool. However, a spell’s existing rules text 
takes priority over that of the subschool. 


uUDULMaPL y “4 SHUI 


$- Sam 


er < 


i w 
k it 
i 


r> 
—_— 


> 

oS - 
” X 
-K 


n 
r 
tee 


~~ 


“a 


pry re 


ie 
-i 


p, oeer y 
Pee 


AaS 


; = 
Ly 
Fr 
~, -Ñ 
MO 


not 


YL m ~ =? - >< J~ 
£978-027869-62464 f ; - i : E hw 


ISBN 


