Q: Conceived in 1999 in Melbourne, Australia, the annual month-long charity effort 'Movember' raises awareness/funds for men's health issues (notably prostate and testicular cancer) involving the wearing of what? A: Moustaches
Q: Canadian professor of management and psychology, Victor Vroom, established '(What?) Theory'? A: Expectancy Theory
Q: What is the (full name of the) United Nations' agency for nuclear technology, abbreviated to IAEA? A: International Atomic Energy Agency
Q: What musical instrument has the nickname 'the devil's box'? A: Violin
Q: The Observer is the Sunday edition of which UK daily newspaper? A: The Guardian
Q: Vitreous enamel, used to decorate and protect pottery, metals, etc., is? A: Glass
Q: What German word refers to the highest or premier league of any sport in Germany or Austria? A: Bundesliga
Q: From 2006-11 and ongoing, Giuliano Mignini became infamous for alleged incompetence and recklessness in what role in Italy? Soccer referee; Public prosecutor; Pizza restaurateur; or Formula 1 team manager? A: Public prosecutor
Q: What car/vehicle maker has (at 2011) a logo of two chevrons, one above the other, both pointing upwards? A: Citroën
Q: Rocinha favela in Brazil is said to be the biggest what in Latin America? A: Slum
Q: What is Alexander Pope's (1688-1744) famous line from his poem An Essay on Criticism, written 1709, much used in books, film and music? A: Fools rush in where angels fear to tread
Q: IBM's innovative 'Selectric' typewriter of the 1960s-80s was popularly called a? A: Golfball
Q: What is the Irish handheld single-sided round drum, often played with a double-ended beater? A: Bodhrán
Q: A diaspora is a dispersion of? A: People
Q: Triffis, Rudy (or Rudolph), Porpoise, Cody, and Corkscrew are moves in what sport? A: Trampolining
Q: The Russian word 'naled' (in German, 'aufeis') refers to naturally occurring thicker-than-normal layers of what? A: Ice
Q: A gilet (pronounced loosely 'jee-lay' - it's French) is a jacket or blouse without? A: Sleeves
Q: What notable businessman is known as the Sage of Omaha? A: Warren Buffett
Q: What seasonal name is most commonly given to the uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa, which began in Tunisia, December 2010? A: Arab Spring
Q: In Native American ceremonial custom what is a calumet? A: Peace pipe
Q: What animal name is given to the type of investment fund which buys large distressed debts especially of war/chaos-torn countries, aiming later to demand and sue for extortionate interest payments? A: Vulture
Q: What small ex-Soviet nation between Turkey and Iran was World Team Chess Champion in 2011 and subsequently made the game compulsory in primary school education? A: Armenia
Q: What is the common name for the round skullcap worn by Jewish males? A: Kippa
Q: What sort of well is named after a former French province, where Carthusian monks first drilled them in the 12th century? A: Artesian
Q: In Cable Street East London, 1936, thousands of ordinary people famously stopped a march by what uniformly nicknamed organization? A: The Blackshirts
Q: Name the focus of the UK Leveson inquiry? A: Press standards
Q: What is the colourful nickname of the International Business Machines (IBM) corporation? A: Big Blue
Q: What is conventionally regarded to be the opposite of Utopia? A: Dystopia
Q: Name the humanitarian and ex-special envoy to the Archbishop of Canterbury, held hostage in Lebanon from 1987-1991? A: Terry Waite
Q: In medicine, the word styptic refers to something that stops what? A: Bleeding
Q: "In his seminally optimistic 1734 poem, An Essay on Man, Alexander Pope wrote the famous line, ""Hope springs eternal in the (what)""?" A: Human breast
Q: A rising or resurgence of the hydrosphere is more commonly known as what? A: Spring
Q: Gum Olibanum, from the tree Boswellia sacra? A: Frankincense
Q: White marking on horse's lower leg? A: Stocking
Q: ... may be willing, but flesh weak? A: Spirit
Q: Powdered wool or cloth in certain wallpapers? A: Flock
Q: Widely used title of high authority, in English was orginally 'hlafweard', meaning bread-keeper? A: Lord
Q: Alternative name for the plant Sweet Cicely, from its Latin name? A: Myrrh
Q: Dwarf heather vaccinium yielding acid fruit? A: Cranberry
Q: A side in a contract or dispute? A: Party
Q: Originally, in English, a student residence, preserved in Gray's and Lincoln's? A: Inn
Q: Conducted mission of preaching and healing, with reported miracles, in Palestine, c.28-30AD? A: Jesus Christ
Q: ...thought, an old term for a wishbone? A: Merry
Q: Marketing/technology term for the busiest day each year for online shopping? A: Cyber Monday
Q: ... Anise, used for aniseed flavouring typically in Asian cooking? A: Star
Q: From Latin, 'a spark', showy? A: Tinsel
Q: Originally Old English 'haligdaeg', meaning 'holy day'? A: Holiday
Q: Beast of burden, Equus asinus? A: Donkey
Q: Pre-digital video or TV screen 'noise' due to no/poor signal? A: Snow
Q: Verb tense neither future nor past? A: Present
Q: Milk/cream, sugar, beaten eggs, and liquor drink? A: Eggnog
Q: Name given to Christ when prophesied by Isaiah? A: Emmanuel
Q: Roger 'Race' Bannon, Hadji, and a dog called Bandit are leading characters in what 1960s TV cartoon, now media franchise? A: Jonny Quest
Q: The rivers Brahmaputra, Ganges, Meghna and Krishna flow into the Bay of (What)? A: Bengal
Q: What soft gray alkaline earth metal is the fifth most abundant element by mass in the Earth's crust? A: Calcium
Q: What feature in clothing such as trousers and skirts has variations called box, fluted, accordion, knife and honeycombe? A: Pleats
Q: Wildfowl such as ducks, geese, swans, etc., have a nail on which part of the body? A: Beak
Q: The 'God particle' is more technically called what, after two (English and Indian) physicists? A: Higgs boson
Q: In medicine and biological science, what is the opposite and usual alternative to 'in vitro'? A: In vivo
Q: The 1979 Islamic Revolution of Iran overthrew a? A: Shah
Q: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (1881-1938) was first president and is regarded as founder of which republic? A: Turkey
Q: The Hindustani Indian instrument the dilruba, meaning 'robber of the heart', is used by a? A: Musician
Q: Eiswein is wine made from grapes that have been what on the vine? Frozen; Sun-dried; Salted; or Pressed? A: Frozen
Q: What is the singular term for one piece of data? A: Datum
Q: Using conventional tunings, what is the lowest note a symphonic orchestra can produce by bowing a stringed instrument? A: E
Q: Name the Ukrainian/Russian American engineer who was first to viably manufacture and sell helicopters? A: Igor Sikorsky
Q: In physics, what is the opposite of Tension? A: Compression
Q: Mythological Norse 'hall of the slain'? A: Valhalla
Q: Biblical hairshirt worn with ashes? A: Sackcloth
Q: Sound, hearing, and non-electric musical instruments from the Greeks? A: Acoustic
Q: South Asia Muslim ruler's title, variously distorted? A: Nawab
Q: Lord of the Flies is a devil? A: Beelzebub
Q: Stephen King's rabid eponymous St Bernard? A: Cujo
Q: Call of the Wild (novel and movie)? A: Buck
Q: Hagrid's 'cowardly' boarhound, of Harry Potter fame? A: Fang
Q: US Army WWI most decorated war dog, and highest ranking? A: Sergeant Stubby
Q: HMV (His Master's Voice) early logo? A: Nipper
Q: Milo's dog, The Phantom Tollbooth's 'watchdog'? A: Tock
Q: Odysseus's faithful hound in Homer's Odyssey? A: Argos
Q: Mrs Pumphrey's pekingese James Herriot's vet stories? A: Tricki Woo
Q: Paul McCartney, and supposedly inspiration for a Beatles song/song title? A: Martha
Q: Agatha Christie's novel Dumb Witness? A: Bob
Q: What William S Burroughs 1961 book popularised the rock music term 'heavy metal', and provided the names for at least two rock bands of the 1970s? A: The Soft Machine
Q: What main religion celebrates festivals including Nuakhai, Yatra (or Zatra/Jatra), Pongal, Holi and Shigmo? A: Hindu
Q: Which country experienced the Velvet Revolution in Nov-Dec 1989? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: According to the UK General Teaching Council how many of the 28,000 newly qualified teachers in 2010 had a computer-related degree? A: 3
Q: What ancient Sanskrit word loosely meaning 'region' commonly now refers to people (and culture, products, etc) of Indian sub-continent origins? A: Desi
Q: Whom did Forbes Magazine list as the most powerful woman in the Southern Hemisphere in 2011? A: Dilma Rouseff
Q: Unrelated, what is a set of slats and a museum? A: Louvre
Q: The Showa period of Japan coincided with what Emperor's reign? A: Hirohito
Q: What fashionable Mediterranean resort hosted the G20 international economics conference at the height of the Greek Euro membership crisis? A: Cannes
Q: Which politician (as at 2011) has the second-highest average for a No6 cricket test batsman (over 61 runs) and in a competition bowled faster than Dennis Lillee and Andy Roberts? A: Imran Khan
Q: What element is also known as hydrargyrum? A: Mercury
Q: Which Australian city is considered to have the largest Greek population outside of Greece? A: Melbourne
Q: What French term refers in English (contracts especially) to an unforeseeable factor preventing the fulfilment of an agreement? A: Force Majeure
Q: Forbidden, unmentionable - from Tongan? A: Taboo
Q: Seasonal South Asia wind and accompanying rainfall - from Dutch? A: Monsoon
Q: Long wrap-around skirt meaning sheath or quiver - from Malay? A: Sarong
Q: Clumsy awkward person, whose earlier root gave us also 'clot' in English - from Yiddish? A: Klutz
Q: Ghost or spirit, typically unseen and moving things - from German? A: Poltergeist
Q: Isolation, quarantine, or secrecy - from Persian/Urdu? A: Purdah
Q: Beer brewed for storing/keeping - from German? A: Lager
Q: Long story - from Old Norse? A: Saga
Q: Joy in the misfortune of others - from German? A: Schadenfreude
Q: Hot steam bath - from Finnish? A: Sauna
Q: Happiness or blissful death through elightenment (literally 'blowing out') - from Sanskrit? A: Nirvana
Q: What capital city of the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh became famous for the 1984 gas poisoning disaster at Dow Chemicals' Union Carbide plant? A: Bhopal
Q: "What, according to Forbes magazine in 2011 ""...achieved in 7 years what the CIA could not in 60, i.e., knowing what 800million people think, read and listen to..."" ?" A: Facebook
Q: The French term ligne (equating to 'line' in English) is used by makers of watches, buttons and hats as an expression of? A: Size
Q: Who wrote The Stepford Wives, Rosemary's Baby, and The Boys from Brazil? A: Ira Levin
Q: The European/Asian slow worm (Anguis) is what sort of animal? A: Lizard
Q: Piscine Molitor Patel is better known by what highly abbreviated name, being the central character of an eponymously titled novel? A: Pi
Q: Name the UK government minister in the news in 2012 for his initiatives for schools bible distribution and a new royal yacht? A: Michael Gove
Q: The Venetian island of Murano is noted for its centuries-old traditional manufacture of what material in decorative form? A: Glass
Q: 'Guerilla' street art attributed to 'Banski' became a notable feature of what capital city in 2012? A: Moscow
Q: The fashionable Belstaff clothing label was founded in Staffordshire UK in 1924 initially to produce protective waterprooof clothing for? A: Motorcyclists
Q: What mixed drink takes its name from the Spanish for 'bleeding'? A: Sangria
Q: What instrument is the basis of the occupational name for a stringed instrument maker, notably of violins and guitars? A: Lute
Q: 'Liquor amnii' is normally found in? A: Pregnant women
Q: What colour/color is the second 'O' in the standard original Google logo? A: Yellow
Q: The fuel injection system replaced what traditional device for blending air and fuel in car combustion engines? A: Carburettor
Q: A Pelton wheel converts what power into usable energy? A: Water
Q: As at 2012 what 115-island Indian Ocean nation has the smallest population (about 86,000) of any African country? A: Seychelles
Q: Which country has the international telephone dialling code 27? A: South Africa
Q: What length is the shortest side of a right-angled triangle whose longest sides are 4cm and 5cm? A: 3cm
Q: A framework beam - a fink - that supports a wide-spanning roof is also known as a '(what nationality) truss'? A: French
Q: The Turbans, The Five Satins, and The Diamonds helped establish what musical style? A: Doo-wop
Q: What psychological condition was named after Greek legend of a beautiful hunter who fell in love with his own reflection? A: Narcissism
Q: Which corporation suffered embarrassment after sponsoring and naming the weather system which caused multiple fatalities across Eastern Europe in Feb 2012? A: BMW
Q: Named after Hantan River, South Korea, hantaviruses typically infect humans through transfer from bites, waste, etc., of? A: Rodents
Q: As at 2012 what country is the world's largest democracy? A: India
Q: In 2012 Josefina Vazquez Mota became a presidential candidate for the ruling National Action Party (PAN) in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Emil Boc resigned as prime minister of which European country in Feb 2012? A: Romania
Q: Lisa del Giocondo is better known as what famous characterization? A: Mona Lisa
Q: The Aquino, Arroyo and Cojuangco families have in recent times ruled what country? A: The Philippines
Q: In the human body the hypophysis is better known as what gland? A: Pituitary gland
Q: The Bedouin people are so named because they originated in? A: Desert
Q: What English word from French meaning literally 'cold blood' refers to (a person's) composure under pressure? A: Sangfroid
Q: The deeply inaccessible lakes Vostok, Whillans, and Ellsworth are in the? A: South Pole
Q: UK road signs for tourist destinations and places of interest are normally a white icon on what colour background? A: Brown
Q: The 1805 Battle of Austerlitz was a major victory for which commander? A: Napoleon
Q: What 'white-tail' species grew in such numbers in US Washington DC parklands as to prompt radical control measures in 2012? A: Deer
Q: What nationality (at 2012, and at founding) are the corporations Samsung, Hyundai and LG? A: South Korean
Q: What film won five Oscars in 2012 including Best Actor, Original Score and Costume Design? A: The Artist
Q: In Feb 2012 British cruise ships Adonia and Star Princess were refused entry to Ushuaia port in the southern tip of which country? A: Argentina
Q: Moody's, Fitch, and Standard and Poor's are leaders in what market? A: Credit ratings
Q: Brent Crude is the common trading classification for oil sourced from the bed of what sea? A: North Sea
Q: In what country was the sports goods company Fila first established (1911) and owned? A: Italy
Q: What airport carries the most international passengers in the world (at 2012)? A: Heathrow
Q: The translation 'long chair' refers to what traditionally French named item of furniture? A: Chaise Longue
Q: King Rama and Queen Sirikit rule which country (at 2012), bordered by Burma, Laos, and Cambodia? A: Thailand
Q: Moishe Shagall, born 1887 in what is now Belarus, became famous under what other name? A: Marc Chagall
Q: From Greek meaning within, what sort of gland secretes hormones, etc., directly into the blood? A: Endocrine
Q: What weekday is traditionally called 'Super...' in the election of US presidential candidates? A: Tuesday
Q: Geir Haard (who in 2012 became the first politician to face court charges for negligence in contributing to the 2008 global financial crisis) led what country? A: Iceland
Q: What is the lowest note on a common traditional four-string mandolin? A: G
Q: The 'doppelsigrune' or 'sig runes' was the symbol of what secretive and powerful organization? The A: SS
Q: UK tabloid newspapers are commonly called? A: Red-Tops
Q: Who was the last head of state of the Soviet Union? A: Mikhail Gorbachev
Q: What city opened the UK's largest city-centre water feature - the 'Mirror Pool' - in Spring 2012? A: Bradford
Q: As at 2012 what nationality is the Brewery corporation Carlsberg? A: Danish
Q: Name Norwegian Evard Munch's famous painting of human outburst? A: The Scream
Q: What is Germany's biggest selling newspaper (at 2012)? A: Bild
Q: Baselworld in Switzerland is the world's biggest annual tradeshow event for? A: Watches and Jewellery
Q: Shakespeare's play of Greek/Trojan war, love and betrayal is Troilus and (who)? A: Cressida
Q: Who in the 1970s was the first big sports superstar endorsee of the Fila brand? A: Björn Borg
Q: Press-ups and squat-thrusts were reportedly introduced in 2012 as staff punishments at what major retailer's Milan branch? A: Abercrombie and Fitch
Q: Name the 1982 Buckingham Palace early-hours intruder who woke and spoke to Elizabeth II in her bedroom? A: Michael Fagan
Q: At 2012 what mobile broadband service is/was the next major upgrade for most of Europe? A: 4G
Q: 72 year-old Nepali Chandra Bahadur Dangi was certified in 2012 by the Guinness Book of World Records as the shortest human ever at how many inches? A: 21.5 inches
Q: Name the Sony Playstation new handheld gaming model launched in Europe in 2012? A: Vita
Q: What country inspired the term Banana Republic? A: Honduras
Q: The acronym STEM in education refers to a set of what four technical subjects? A: Science Technology Engineering Mathematics
Q: Austrian physicist Erwin Schrödinger's 'thought experiment' theory is referred to as Schrödinger's (what animal)? A: Cat
Q: The natural effect causing paint to rise up the hairs of a paintbrush, and liquid to rise up a narrow tube is called (what) action? A: Capillary
Q: What car company was set up by Colin Chapman in 1952, subsequently succeeding in F1 racing? A: Lotus
Q: Dr Robert Atkins, (1930-2003), who died weighing 260lbs, was noted for what eponymous conception? A: Atkins Diet
Q: What ingredient, used cleverly very sparingly by the Romans, largely determines durability of concrete? A: Water
Q: Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie (VOC), was better known as what hugely influential organization, notably in the colonial exploitation of Asia? A: Dutch East India Company
Q: Technically the potato is a? A: Tuber
Q: In what modern country did the ancient Sumer or Sumerian civilisation develop and flourish? A: Iraq
Q: Modern DNA studies show that the first migrants to the North American continent were? A: Asians
Q: What modern convenient foodstuff takes its name from the Latin meaning 'salted (and preserved meat)'? A: Sausage
Q: Name the hugely and suddenly successful 'Pictionary-type' online game bought by Zynga for $180m in 2012? A: Draw Something
Q: Where did the modern common potato originate? A: South America
Q: What material was used in making the 2,000 year-old dome of the Pantheon in Rome? A: Concrete
Q: The Renminbi is currency, and increasingly important in global trading, of which country? A: China
Q: An exoplanet is a planet which does what to a sun (outside of our own solar system)? A: Orbits
Q: Which artist/inventor's famous lost 1504 painting, The Battle of Anghiari, was found in 2012 hidden in Florence Town Hall, behind a later fresco? A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: As at 2012 what is the only European country to routinely apply the death penalty? A: Belarus
Q: Coptic refers to a sect of what religious order? A: Christianity
Q: St Tropez, Sienna X, and Fake Bake are popular brands of what product/service type? A: Spray tanning
Q: The British pub name 'The Talbot' traditionally refers to a what? A: Dog
Q: What religious code refers to 'the three poisons' (or 'unwholesome roots') of ignorance, attachment, aversion, as the roots of all suffering? Islam; Buddhism; Christianity; Hinduism? A: Buddhism
Q: As at at 2012 Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao are/were president and premier of which country? A: China
Q: Behind Wal-Mart, Carrefour, and Tesco, what corporation is the fourth largest retail group (by turnover, at 2012) in the world? A: Metro
Q: What organ of the body has a pericardium, pulmonary trunk, and superior vena cava? A: Heart
Q: Who succeeded Joseph Stalin as leader of the Sovient Union? A: Nikita Khrushchev
Q: A dagga (duggi or dhama) is the bass element of what Indian percussion instrument? A: Tabla
Q: Lye is an old English word for? A: Caustic soda
Q: Which Greek hero killed the 'half-man/half-bull' Minotaur? A: Theseus
Q: The army bugle call meaning get ready/mounted and into line/parade is traditionally called? A: Boots and Saddles
Q: Which country has (at 2012) the longest national highway in the world? A: Australia
Q: What is the only country whose homeland spans Africa and Asia? A: Egypt
Q: Which country's royal anthem is called 'Kongesangen'? A: Norway
Q: The word membranophone technically refers to a? A: Drum
Q: Carthage is a 3,000 year old urban settlement now part of what North African capital city? A: Tunis
Q: What modern-day publishing corporation, owner of Penguin books, built the Blackwall Tunnel (under the River Thames in London)? A: Pearson
Q: What vague unit of time is also the same as torque in physics, being a rotational force? A: Moment
Q: What nationality is the retail group Carrefour (at 2012)? A: French
Q: What UK government-funded company traditionally employing disabled people in manufacturing was founded in 1945 to provide work for injured soldiers? A: Remploy
Q: What deceptive old name is given to a pudding of stewed fruit blended with custard/cream/similar? A: Fool
Q: Tonsure refers to removal of hair from the? A: Head
Q: In old English, a Yeoman was originally a man possessing/working with? A: Land
Q: Greek 'skhizo' and 'skhizein' basically mean what? A: Split
Q: What African country experienced a 2012 rebellion by Tuareg fighters? A: Mali
Q: Zampone is an Italian dish made of stuffed pig's what? A: Trotter
Q: Which major social networking corporation grew from a branded messaging project at podcasting site Odeo? A: Twitter
Q: Pissouri, Paphos, and Protarus are seaside resorts in which Mediterranean island? A: Cyprus
Q: What airline was exposed in Spring 2012 as having leaked celebrities' flight details to a paparazzi agency? A: Virgin
Q: What is the only internal human organ capable of natural regeneration of lost tissue? A: Liver
Q: What model pioneered personal computing in the 1980s, selling over 20 million of its (then huge) 64k memory machines? A: Commodore 64
Q: Name the passenger vehicle famously lost with 36 fatalities on 6 May 1937 at New Jersey US? A: Hindenburg
Q: Chicken Pox is mainly contracted from contact with? A: Children
Q: Which country has (early 2000s) the highest AIDS infection rate in the world? A: Swaziland
Q: Tian Tian and Yang Guang are? A: Pandas
Q: Earl Scruggs (1924-2012) pioneered and was master of the three-fingered technique for playing what? A: Banjo
Q: Introduced in the early 1900s, the internationally used Whyte Notation (representing the number of leading/driving/trailing wheels, via a numbers and dashes system) classifies what? A: Steam locomotives
Q: The Chinese (translated) 'Society of Righteous and Harmonious Fists' which once instigated a famous rebellion against colonial and imperial presence in Peking (now Beijing) China, were better known by what name? A: Boxers
Q: The federation of which sport ruled in early 2012 that bikinis would not be compulsory for its competitors at the London Olympics? A: Volleyball
Q: Name Shanghai's financial area and China's commercial hub, literally meaning 'east bank'? A: Pudong
Q: Name Irvine Welsh's best selling 1993 novel about heroin addiction? A: Trainspotting
Q: Which country's leader, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, announced in 2012 the effective nationalisation of local oil assets owned by Spanish corporation Repsol? A: Argentina
Q: City University London's Cass School specialises in? A: Business
Q: SNCF is the state railway group of which country? A: France
Q: What historic bicycle company introduced the children's Chopper bike in the 1970s? A: Raleigh
Q: Italian for angry, what is the pasta sauce of garlic, tomatoes, and red chili cooked in olive oil? A: Arrabbiata
Q: To which country did Amazon move its European HQ in 2006? A: Luxembourg
Q: A 'silk' is an informal term for what prestigious grade of profession? A: Queen's Counsel
Q: Rib, stretcher, runner, ferrule, crook-handle and tube are parts of which common protective device? A: Umbrella
Q: As at 2012 which newspaper has the most popular website? A: New York Times
Q: What significant territory did President Richard Nixon call by telephone on 20 July 1969? A: The Moon
Q: What spring 2012 Formula 1 Grand Prix was held amongst violent civil unrest? A: Bahrain
Q: What major international leader was in 2010 officially given ranked status as a Hells Angel by his nation's 'high council' of bikers, with the name 'Abaddon'? A: Vladimir Putin
Q: Bratwurst is a greatly varying German food made mainly of? A: Meat
Q: Jurisprudence is the theory/philosophy of what? A: Law
Q: Hyponatremia/hyponatraemia is an unhelpful reduction of what element in human blood serum? A: Sodium
Q: What creature is on the mission insignia or badge of the first moon landing, Apollo 11? A: Eagle
Q: Canadian psychiatrist Eric Berne (1910-70) founded which psychotherapeutic/psychological methodology? A: Transactional Analysis
Q: What 'anachronistic' word was proposed for removal from titles in official 2012 review of the UK state honours system? A: Empire
Q: Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 classic horror novel about split personality is called what? A: The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde
Q: Erected in 1989, what large geometric glass structure serves as the main entrance to the Louvre Museum in Paris? A: Pyramid
Q: At its nearest the Moon is roughly how many thousands of miles from Earth? A: 222
Q: Up until ceasing posts in March 2012 who had become the most followed active professional footballer (soccer player) on Twitter? A: Joey Barton
Q: Roots of the dandelion plant can be used to make a drink very like? A: Coffee
Q: Chittagong beach in Bangladesh is famous for? A: Shipbreaking
Q: Who was the last English monarch to win the throne on the battlefield? A: Henry VII
Q: In classical painting a putto (plural putti) is a baby what? A: Angel
Q: The Russian Sukhoi Company is famous for making what? A: Aircraft
Q: Actor Tom Conti was found to descend from Napoleon Bonaparte after analysis of? A: Y-Chromosome DNA
Q: What was the previous brand-name of the Nissan automotive corporation? A: Datsun
Q: As at 2012 the European Union comprises how many member states? A: 27
Q: Loss of temper or sudden uncontrollable rage is called metaphorically as 'the (what colour) mist'? A: Red
Q: The mariachi musical style/band belongs to which country? A: Mexico
Q: Name the Bosnian Serb army commander tried at The Hague in 2012 for war crimes against Bosnia 1992-95? A: Ratko Mladic
Q: What Latin term refers (literally) to a writer or composer's 'great work'? A: Magnum Opus
Q: What is the international dialling code for Australia? A: 61
Q: Cape Verde was until independence a territory of which European country? A: Portugal
Q: As at 2012 the official 'authorised version' of the Holy Bible is also known by what monarch's name? A: King James
Q: What is the cube root of 343? A: 7
Q: The Beau Sancy, sold at a Geneva auction in 2012 for £5.3m, is a? A: Diamond
Q: Albedoza or albedo refers to a surface's what? A: Reflectivity
Q: What word, from French and Portuguese etymology meaning 'raised', in different variants refers to various peoples around the world who are born locally, of foreign origin? A: Creole
Q: What royal house immediately followed the reign of England's King Richard III? A: Tudor
Q: Anthropomorphism refers to giving or attributing what qualities to something? A: Human
Q: What is the food-shaped nickname of the London 2012 Olympics velodrome stadium? A: The Pringle
Q: What was the previous name of UK-founded communications technology company O2? A: Cellnet
Q: Caputo '00' flour, fior di latte, and San Marzano plum tomatoes are typical authentic ingredients of what traditional food? A: Pizza
Q: Bacteria, fungi, and algae are among a broad classification of life called? A: Microorganisms
Q: What international jewellery/jewelry corporation is headquartered at 727 5th Avenue, Manhattan, New York City, US? A: Tiffany & Co
Q: Online auction of a vial of which deceased US president's blood, lost from a lab after a 1981 assassination attempt, was cancelled after family protest in 2012? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: Which film originated the obsession/jealousy term 'bunny boiler'? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was the ruthless dictator of which African nation for 23 years, before its 2011 uprising? A: Tunisia
Q: With what offence was Rebekah Brooks, former editor of The Sun and News of the World newspapers, charged in spring 2012? A: Conspiracy to pervert the course of justice
Q: Who was the last English monarch of the Tudor dynasty? A: Elizabeth I
Q: In chemistry, a 'homogeneous mixture composed of only one phase' (basically a mixed yet uniform substance) is called a? A: Solution
Q: What country first legislated for plain packaging of tobacco products? A: Australia
Q: What economically challenged country's King (Juan Carlos) attracted criticism at home for his 2012 African elephant-hunting Safari holiday? A: Spain
Q: In a circuit diagram what usually is a capital letter M in a circle? A: Motor
Q: A semi-circular protractor used in basic geometry has a scale of how many degrees? A: 180
Q: Which automotive corporation uses the marketing strapline 'The Power of Dreams'? A: Honda
Q: Named after its inventor and significant electricity pioneer, a protective meshed enclosure giving electrical protection is called a 'what' cage? A: Farraday cage
Q: Name the UK Culture Secretary accused in 2012 of bias and rule-bending in approving News Corp's 2011 takeover of BSkyB? A: Jeremy Hunt
Q: The famous Mesquita Mosque, within a Roman Catholic Cathedral, is in which country? A: Spain
Q: Name the English artist/sculptor famous for large public bronze works including 'Two Large Forms' and many reclining figures and mother and child abstracts? A: Henry Moore
Q: In what sport did Swede Oscar Swahn become the oldest gold medallist at 64 years (1912), and the oldest medallist, at 72 (silver, 1920)? A: Shooting
Q: What is the common medical name for the increasingly popular recreational drug referred to as a 'horse tranquillizer'? A: Ketamine
Q: In which country did the mayor of Taranto, Ippazio Stefano, cause a fuss in 2012 after attending rallies with a pistol tucked in his trousers? A: Italy
Q: In chemistry a solution is a? A: Any
Q: What vast (originally Spanish state monopoly) corporation owns the O2 and Movistar communications brands? A: Telefónica SA
Q: What common boy's name (English language Christian or first name) is derived from the Latin and Greek words for rock? A: Peter
Q: Name the great old rival company of the Harley-Davidson motorbike corporation, whose models included the Chief and Scout? A: Indian
Q: A tetrapod is an animal with how many what? (two answers required) A: Four Limbs
Q: A compound which reduces liquid surface tension, or tension between two liquids or liquid and solid (as do detergents, foaming agents, and dispersants) is generally called a? A: Surfactant
Q: The Mansion House is the official residence of what London title-holder? A: Lord Mayor
Q: Apitoxin is the scientific name for which sort of venom? A: Bee
Q: American physician Dr Henry Jay Heimlich is famously credited with developing a procedure to counter what threat to life? A: Choking
Q: Northampton is generally regarded to have the largest what in England? A: Market square
Q: What product, invented by accountant Walter Diemer in 1928, was and remains conventionally pink, (it is said) because pink was the only dye available to its inventor at the time? A: Bubblegum
Q: In geometry all regular polygons have 'what' sides? A: Equal
Q: 100000 and 200000 are the postal codes for the two major cities of which nation? A: China
Q: How wide is a regulation basketball hoop? A: 18 inches
Q: Sicilian, Spanish and Ruy Lopez are types of tactical moves in what game? A: Chess
Q: What possession of 'wild west' star Annie Oakley sold at a 2012 auction for $143,000? A: Gun
Q: At 2012 what was the last manned mission to the moon? A: Apollo 17
Q: The Italian words for 'three roads' provided the name for which famous Rome monument? A: Trevi Fountain
Q: What is/was the BBC's teletext information service called? A: Ceefax
Q: Born George Jamieson in Liverpool 1935, name the 1960s model noted for her transgender equality campaigning? A: April Ashley
Q: Storing and processing data on a remote unspecified computer server is known as '(what weather feature) computing'? A: Cloud
Q: In a Japanese restaurant an oshibori is a? A: Hand towel
Q: In geometry, where every point of a shape is moved a constant distance and direction, this is called? A: Translation
Q: What chemical element is named from the French for charcoal? A: Carbon
Q: Name the chemical process for toughening rubber/polymer typically by adding sulphur (US, sulfur) using heat and pressure? A: Vulcanization
Q: What sport dominated (with 30 of the top 100) the 2012 Forbes list of highest earning athletes? A: American Football
Q: What, from Latin 'to milk', is the technical name for a mixture of two or more liquids that are normally unblendable? A: Emulsion
Q: What three letters did comedy writer Armando Iannucci amusingly tweet back to Tony Blair's ex-spin-doctor Alistair Campbell following Campbell's jibe about Iannucci's acceptance of his OBE award '... your wit a bit tired and blunt already. Three little letters can have more impact than you realise..' ? A: WMD
Q: The term geocentric places what as central? A: Earth
Q: Andrew McDougall, whose injury decided a serious international sport championship final in 2012, was a? A: Linesman
Q: Bees, Woozles, Jagulars, and the Backson are minor characters in which author's famous stories? A: A A Milne
Q: Poet Percy Bysshe Shelley, writer Virginia Woolf, and newspaper mogul Robert Maxwell, shared what fate? A: Drowning
Q: What human hormone causes certain body cells to take up glucose from the blood and store it as glycogen? A: Insulin
Q: What American word, from French meaning lift, refers to an embankment preventing overflow of a river or other body of water? A: Levee
Q: What word traditionally refers to a fictional inhabitant of the planet Mars, which extends loosely to aliens from elsewhere in space? A: Martian
Q: What conifer shrub is known traditionally and offensively as 'bastard killer', because its berries were used to procure abortion? A: Juniper
Q: Name Google's 3D mapping service, launched in the US in 2007? A: Street View
Q: The 'mast' of a beech tree refers to its? A: Nuts
Q: The popular TV talkshow Satyamev Jayate (Truth Alone Prevails) achieves viewing figures of 400 million in what country (as at 2012)? A: India
Q: What is Python for Google, Yahoo, Youtube and many major online corporations? A: Programming language
Q: Which vast UK banking corporation suffered major computer failure during June 2012, impacting the cashflow of millions of customers and businesses, and exposing the company to tens of millions of pounds compensation liabilities? A: RBS
Q: In the Christian Church of England, the title 'The Very Reverend' usually suggests what job title, also called a 'cathedral provost'? A: Dean
Q: The Millau Viaduct over the river Tarn valley near Millau in southern France holds what global bridge record (at 2012) ? A: Tallest
Q: The Latin term meaning 'among other things' is? A: Inter alia
Q: What prestigious learning institution is in Cambridge, Massachusetts, US? A: Harvard University
Q: The conium plant genus is better known as what poison? A: Hemlock
Q: Tuber aestivum is better known as a type of what foodstuff delicacy? A: Truffle
Q: Nexus is a brandname for a tablet computer belonging to which corporation? A: Google
Q: The French word 'peloton' usually refers to a bunched group of competitors in what sport? A: Cycling
Q: As at 2012 Nisiyama Onsen Keiunkan, a hot spring hotel in Hayakawa, Yamanashi, Japan, is officially regarded as being what world-record-holding business? A: Oldest
Q: "What Shakespeare play features the line, ""We few, we happy few, we band of brothers...""?" A: Henry V
Q: Racerback, Balconette, Bandeau, and Shelf are types of what? A: Bra
Q: Diverticulitis is a common disease of what human system? A: Digestive
Q: According to Encyclopedia Britannica 2012, a skyscraper is very loosely defined as having at least how many storeys/stories? A: 40
Q: The Latin term 'intra muros' means? A: Not public
Q: The Henri Delaunay trophy is awarded in which sport? A: Association Football
Q: What north-eastern state of India (at 2012) accounts for more than 50% of the nation's tea production, and is said to be the world's biggest tea-growing region? A: Assam
Q: Where in the human body is the sacrum bone? A: Pelvis
Q: Pangaea, Laurasia and Gondwana are? A: Supercontinents
Q: The metric prefix nano means 10 to the power of? A: -9
Q: In what language do the words 'beminnen', 'ja', and 'zon', mean 'love', 'yes', and 'sun'? A: Dutch
Q: Pinniped refers to a mammal with feet which are what? A: Fins
Q: What country's 1931 flood is considered to be the most fatal of all 1900s natural disasters? A: China
Q: Sociedad Española de Automóviles de Turismo is better known by what brand name? A: SEAT
Q: Papules and pustules are types of what on the human skin? A: Spots
Q: The Berber ethnic people come from? A: North Africa
Q: What unit of enormous distance has the symbol pc and equates to about 3.26 light-years or 19.2 trillion miles? A: Parsec
Q: The traditional curly twisted Chinese tea (Camellia sinensis) produced by drying in the sun is called? A: Oolong
Q: What note is played on a guitar at the fifth fret of the first (highest pitch) string (conventional six-string guitar with standard tuning)? A: A
Q: Mydriasis normally is the widening of a what? A: Pupil
Q: The capital of which US state is named after prospector (and discoverer of local gold in 1880) Joseph Juneau? A: Alaska
Q: Which Frenchman composed Clair de lune, the famous third movement of Suite bergamasque? A: Claude Debussy
Q: A narrative/statement/question used in testing/developing student capability in Zen Buddhism is a? A: Koan
Q: A myringotomy is an incision in what part of the human body? A: Eardrum
Q: Rosneftegaz and Gazprom are vast energy corporations of which nation? A: Russia
Q: Petite Sirah, Tempranillo, Vespolina, and Gamay are varieties of what? A: Grapes
Q: Gatka, Mardani khel, Musti yuddha, and Silambam are? A: Indian martial arts
Q: Extragalactic refers to beyond the? A: Milky Way
Q: What single unit of measurement equates to 1.06×10-13 light-years? A: One Kilometre
Q: In a block and tackle lifting system, what is a sheave? Pulley; Rope; Hook; or Brake? A: Pulley
Q: What creatures are T S Eliot's characters Mr Mistoffelees, Mungojerrie, Rumpelteazer, and Bustopher Jones, and what musical was inspired by the poem book in which they feature? A: Cats
Q: The Kabbalah wristband, in Yiddish 'roite bindele', is normally what colour/color? A: Red
Q: Brad, finish, clout, casing and horseshoe are types of what? A: Nails
Q: What state territory is named in Latin, meaning 'New Scotland'? A: Nova Scotia
Q: What artist uses a cake of rosin? A: Violinist
Q: Medically, miosis/myosis normally refers to the narrowing or constriction of the what? A: Pupil
Q: What is India's national motto, appearing on its emblem and currency? A: Satyameva Jayate
Q: Name the female alter-ego featured in the life and vase artworks of English transvestite artist Grayson Perry? A: Claire
Q: What is the more common name of the incendiary weapon formulated from naphthenic and palmitic acids? A: Napalm
Q: Name the mythological Greek hero King of Salamis, son of Telamon and Periboea, and cleaning product? A: Ajax
Q: With blue, yellow, green and orange lines, which nation's busiest metro has stations including Rosemont, Snowdon, Saint-Michel, Monk, and McGill? A: Canada
Q: Brownian motion is what sort of movement? A: Random
Q: Abloy, dimple, skeleton, Zeiss, master, and DND are types of what? A: Keys
Q: The Austrian metalworking company Kraftfahrzeuge Trunkenpolz Mattighofen founded in 1934 is nowadays better known as a manufacturer of what? A: Motorcycles
Q: When writing 'a millionth' in decimals (using numbers and a decimal point/dot), how many zeros are between the decimal point and the figure 1? A: Five
Q: What colour/color traditionally is the Michelin Guide for hotels/restaurants? A: Red
Q: What is the least densely populated country or dependency in the world? A: Greenland
Q: The term 'brogued' technically refers to a shoe with? A: Perforations
Q: 'Normal' or Gaussian distribution in a graph is informally called a what shape (two word answer)? A: Bell curve
Q: Colostrum, informally called beestings/bisnings, is a form of? A: Milk
Q: Originally a physician to the gods, conceived by Greek poet Homer, what ancient word is a song of praise or triumph? A: Paean
Q: The metric prefix femto is shown as ten to the power of minus what? A: 15
Q: Spike, Dig, Set, and Block are found in which competitive sport? A: Volleyball
Q: Nuuk, population about 15,000, is the capital city of which country? A: Greenland
Q: From the Greek words loosely meaning 'same' and 'idea' what term refers to an expression which contains unnecessary duplication? A: Tautology
Q: Yellow Fever is generally carried/transmitted by? A: Mosquito bite
Q: The acronym POTUS refers to what position? A: President Of The United States
Q: What single vowel letter symbol generally refers in science to 'any element'? A: E
Q: Boris Godunov, The Cunning Little Vixen, Wozzeck, and The Ballad of Baby Doe are popular? A: Operas
Q: In the musical story Brigadoon, the eponymous Scottish village appears one day every how many years? A: Hundred
Q: The 1726 novel 'Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World, in Four Parts' is better known by what subsequently amended title? A: Gulliver's Travels
Q: Formerly known as the Ellice Islands, in the Pacific Ocean between Hawaii and Australia, what nation owns the commercially available internet top-level domain .tv? A: Tuvalu
Q: The Trucial States became what Arab nation in 1971? A: United Arab Emirates
Q: What creature is a Chinese 'shishi', called a 'foo dog' in some western cultures? A: Lion
Q: A stonemason commonly refers to unmetamorphosed limestone as what, whose name derives from Greek 'shining stone'? A: Marble
Q: On humans what is the medical Latin name for the big toe? A: Hallux
Q: With the symbol Sv what is the unit of ionizing radiation? A: Sievert
Q: Name the NASA Mars mission rover which landed on the planet in 2012? A: Curiosity
Q: Coulomb is a unit of measurement of electrical? A: Charge
Q: The strongly featured character Alyson/Alys in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales is better known as? A: The Wife of Bath
Q: The 'sub-kingdoms' Blastocladiomycota, Microsporidia and Dikarya belong to the kingdom of organisms commonly called what? A: Fungi
Q: What popular children's TV/toy character has a Mummy, Daddy, brother George, and cousins Chloé and Alexander? A: Peppa Pig
Q: Which city's metro system has lines including Pinar de Chamartín to Valdecarros and Villaverde Alto to Moncloa? A: Madrid
Q: The medical condition Strabismus affects what part of the human body? A: Eyes
Q: Upton Park Football Club won what notable international award in Paris, 1900? A: Olympic Gold Medal
Q: With the symbol H what is the unit of inductance? A: Henry
Q: What country was created in 1949 with the local abbreviated name DDR? A: East Germany
Q: In Jonathan Swift's novel Gulliver's Travels what is Gulliver's first name? A: Lemuel
Q: The characters 11 in the binary numeral system equate to what number? A: Three
Q: What nation has the country code internet top-level domain (TLD) .se? A: Sweden
Q: The title/position of Swami represents a religious teacher in? A: Hinduism
Q: What name is given to the age of human agricultural and technology revolution, from Greek 'new' and 'stone'? A: Neolithic
Q: With the symbol Wb what is the unit of magnetic flux? A: Weber
Q: What sort of creature is a killdeer? A: Bird
Q: The controversially named nation Myanmar is also called controversially what? A: Burma
Q: International dialling codes beginning with the number 2 are chiefly for which continent? A: Africa
Q: "What member of the Murdoch media family said in 2012, ""Profit without purpose is a recipe for disaster""?" A: Elisabeth
Q: Labanotation is a system for coding/recording/analyzing what movement? A: Human
Q: Which country gave diplomatic asylum/refuge to Wikileaks founder Julian Assange in 2012? A: Ecuador
Q: A 3-seater tandem bicycle is called a? A: Tandem
Q: Kinesics is more commonly known as what form of communication? A: Body language
Q: What is the common alternative abbreviated name for a Cannon plug/connector used in professional audio systems? A: XLR
Q: What prestige car marque has a trident emblem design influenced by the Fountain of Neptune, Bologna? A: Maserati
Q: Nollywood refers informally to the huge cinema industry of which nation? A: Nigeria
Q: Rumtopf is a traditional Danish/German dish comprising rum and? A: Fruit
Q: What thickening agent found in gummy confectionery etc., defined as a food and produced from animal by-products, has the E Number 441? A: Gelatin
Q: "What common substance is technically defined as ""...an organic natural composite material of cellulose fibers/fibres, strong in tension, embedded in a matrix of lignin which resists compression...""" A: Wood
Q: What ubiquitous instrument makes a sound technically called a 'chick' when played closed? A: Hi-hat
Q: Mintonette was the original name of which sport? A: Volleyball
Q: How many years is a megaannum? A: One million
Q: Karanga is a ritual welcome chant of what people? A: Maori
Q: The binary number symbols 100 equate to what conventional number? A: Four
Q: What was the first internet top-level domain? A: .arpa
Q: "What word is used on Wikipedia referring to its pages which list and resolve ""...conflicts in article titles that occur when a single term can be associated with more than one topic..."" (as at 2012)?" A: Disambiguation
Q: Micturate is a medical term for expelling what from the human body? A: Urine
Q: Particularly related to a controversial foodstuff, the bodily intervention device/process called 'gavage' refers to what? A: Force-feeding
Q: What nation has 27 states, most of which exceed the area of an entire moderately-sized country, and include Acre, Minas Gerais, Sergipe, and Amazonas? A: Brazil
Q: Vuelta is a cycle race of which nation? A: Spain
Q: From Dutch meaning 'foolish gull', the Australian word mollymawk refers to what sort of bird? A: Albatross
Q: Dom Mintoff was prime minister of which country from 1955-8 and 71-84? A: Malta
Q: What 20th century musical entertainment machine derived its name from the West African word Gullah, meaning disorderly, or 'zigzag'? A: Jukebox
Q: What originally American familial (that's familial, not familiar) term refers to a small shop or business run by a married couple? A: Mom-and-Pop
Q: Aside from the Netherlands and Belgium what is the only country in which Dutch is an official language? A: Suriname
Q: The major UK, US and Canada organizations abbreviated to NFU represent which industry? A: Farming
Q: What nation borders with the south of Syria and the west of Iraq? A: Jordan
Q: What Mexican Spanish dish means literally 'little strips'? A: Fajitas
Q: The shortest Greenland-to-Iceland sea-crossing is about how many miles? A: 180
Q: What Mr Men character is orange with ridiculously long arms and a blue hat? A: Mr Tickle
Q: What notable ex-politician became the first female member of USA's Augusta golf club in 2012? A: Condoleeza Rice
Q: What, meaning 'gentle way', did Jigoro Kano create in Japan in 1882? A: Judo
Q: What does a lux meter measure? A: Illuminance
Q: Prior to Apple becoming the most valuable company in the world in 2012 (at $619bn) what corporation had held the record since 1999? A: Microsoft
Q: Used in the beauty industry, what is the most abundant protein in mammals, mainly found in flesh and connective tissues of vertebrates? A: Collagen
Q: What weapon was named by Finnish people after the Soviet foreign minister responsible for the partition of Finland during the Winter War between the two nations 1939-40? A: Molotov Cocktail
Q: What large and complex nation contains varying geographical/ethnic/political regions called 'krais', 'oblasts', 'okrugs' and 'republics'? A: Russia
Q: The disgraced fraudulent head of failed monster corporation Polly Peck, Asil Nadir, fled to what country in 1993? A: Cyprus
Q: The 'Occam's Razor' (or Ockham's Razor) principle asserts that reliable theories and explanations tend to entail minimal? A: Assumptions
Q: What word, equating to check, is given to the amplified sound system for performers at a concert venue? A: Monitor
Q: What is Europe's largest island? A: Great Britain
Q: What item very commonly worn by people has a hoop, shoulder, mounting and bezel? A: Ring
Q: Name the widely referenced Hindu god and eighth incarnation of Vishnu, from Sankrit meaning 'black'? A: Krishna
Q: Name the Spanish coastal region containing the city of Málaga, and towns including Torremolinos, Benalmádena, Fuengirola, and Marbella? A: Costa del Sol
Q: What musical instrument generally having 17-23 strings derives its name from Persian meaning 'three strings'? A: Sitar
Q: From what country does the word 'chutney' derive? A: India
Q: A cicatrix on the skin is more commonly called a what? A: Scar
Q: Internet corporation Yahoo profited by $4.3bn in 2012 when it sold half its 40% stake in what vast Chinese web company? A: Alibaba
Q: Until London's New College of the Humanities opened in 2012, in what county town, since 1983, was the UK's only private university? A: Buckingham
Q: Swiss Peter Sauber established his eponymous brand in what sport in 1993? A: Formula One
Q: In India a kirana is a what? A: Shop
Q: In old UK/US capacity measures how many pecks are in a bushel? A: Four
Q: For which art-form did Roman Vitruvius define the three principles of 'firmitas, utilitas, venustas' in the 1st century AD? A: Architecture
Q: What is the primary language spoken in Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan? A: Russian
Q: In Spain, El Gordo is a? A: National lottery
Q: The term 'art house' most widely refers to a genre of? A: Cinema film
Q: Berlin, Boston, Chicago, London, and New York City have since 2006 hosted five annual championship 'majors' of what sporting event? A: Marathon
Q: A 'supermassive (what?)' is generally believed to be at the centre/center of the (our) Milky Way galaxy? A: Black hole
Q: A geis (plural geasa) is a curse or taboo in which national mythology/language? A: Irish
Q: A study published in 2012 (by the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence) found that prolonged use of what tended to produce chronic ongoing tension headaches in sufferers? A: Painkillers
Q: Mount Danxia, the World Heritage Site containing spectacular red-striped sandstone landscape, including two bizarrely realistic (male and female) phallic rock formations, is in which country? A: China
Q: A Podiatrist is traditionally more commonly called a? A: Chiropodist
Q: George Entwistle became director general of which global corporation in Sept 2012? A: BBC
Q: The preparation of what entails scoring (or slashing or docking) it with a 'lame' (pronounced 'lahm') before baking? A: Bread
Q: Hyponatremia/hyponatraemia is a problematical reduction of what in human blood serum? A: Sodium
Q: What famous toys and games brand (founded London 1760) did French corporation Groupe Ludendo buy for £60m in 2012? A: Hamleys
Q: What word/symbol appears at the 12 o'clock position on the traditional ipod click wheel? A: MENU
Q: Manolete, Belmonte, Gallito and Tomas are famous names from what discipline? A: Bullfighting
Q: Named from Spanish, 'Land of Fire', what archipelago is the closest land mass to the Antarctic Penninsular? A: Tierra del Fuego
Q: What meat jelly dish is named from a French snakelike association? A: Aspic
Q: Name the Russian feminist rock-protest group, three of whom were jailed for two years in 2012 for performing an anti-state song in Moscow's Cathedral of Christ the Saviour? A: Pussy Riot
Q: "What SI unit (International System of Units) of measurement is defined as ""The amount of substance that contains an equal number of elementary entities as there are atoms in 0.012kg of the isotope carbon-12""?" A: Mole
Q: New York artist Vincent Castiglia is noted for painting with what unconventional substance? A: Blood
Q: What natural foodstuff in Alsace, France, became unnaturally blue and green in 2012, apparently due to a nearby M&Ms factory? A: Honey
Q: The UK-based multinational media/advertising corporation Hibu plc was previously named and retains branding based on which colour/color? A: Yellow
Q: Skip James, Willie Dixon, Robert Johnson and Son House are early exponents of? A: Blues music
Q: Traditionally the number of cuff buttons on a western-style man's jacket/blazer are determined by? A: Formality
Q: What French magazine was first to publish naked pictures of the Duchess of Cambridge in 2012? A: Closer
Q: "What global retailer is associated with the late 1990s slogan ""Chuck out your chintz""?" A: IKEA
Q: Scientists announced in 2012 that more than 1,000 of what creatures (formica lugubris) had been fitted with tiny radio transmitters to study the species? A: Ants
Q: In writing or speech the Latin term 'non sequitur' means 'It does not (what?)'? A: Follow
Q: What global brand withdrew ('rested') its old red-jacketed striding man 104 years after its first appearance in 1908? A: Johnnie Walker
Q: What word from French is a small maneuverable warship and iconic Chevrolet sports car? A: Corvette
Q: Hallertauer, Saaz, Cascade, and East Kent Goldings are varieties of what alcoholic drink ingredient? A: Hops
Q: What island nation began modernizing reforms in the early 2000s when leadership passed from brother to brother? A: Cuba
Q: What element did Marie Curie name after her native land? A: Polonium
Q: A phlebotomist historically used what creature as a tool of the trade? A: Leech
Q: A sophomore is typically a student in which year of university? A: Second
Q: The Starbucks coffee corporation took its name from what classic novel? A: Moby Dick
Q: The French commune town Laguiole in south-central Midi-Pyrénées region of France is known for what eponymously named tool? A: Knife
Q: Google's prior name while under development was 'Back(what?)'? A: Rub
Q: What, related etymologically to the Chinese Yuan and the Japanese Yen, is the currency of North and South Korea? A: Won
Q: Former butler Paolo Gabriele was convicted in 2012 of stealing documents, and subsequently leaking secrets, of what major international leadership headquarters? A: The Vatican
Q: A costermonger was/is a traditional street-seller of? A: Fruit and vegetables
Q: The traditional 'proof' measure of beverage alcoholic strength derives from the maritime method of 'proving' that rum was not waterered down, by dousing what with the rum and igniting it? A: Gunpowder
Q: Who is (at 2012) the only person to have won a Nobel Prize for physics and chemistry? A: Marie Curie
Q: What colour/color is the Swiss cheese Gruyère? A: Yellow
Q: Approximately what is the surface temperature of the Sun, in degrees centigrade? A: 5,500
Q: Chinese corporation Huawei, controversially blacklisted in 2012 by the US Government Intelligence Committee, is (at 2012) the world's largest equipment manufacturer in which sector? A: Telecoms
Q: In what US state was 'Custer's Last Stand'? A: Montana
Q: The Scottish-American industrialist and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie (1835-1919) pioneered and made his vast fortune in which industry in late 1800s USA? A: Steel
Q: What is the English translation of the German news magazine title Der Spiegel? A: The Mirror
Q: Surface, Fire and Nexus are brands/models of what modern (2010s) consumer product? A: Tablet
Q: What puzzle, meaning 'single number' in Japanese, requires the completion of a grid so that each column, row and 3x3 box contain the numbers 1-9? A: Sudoku
Q: In terms of Skyfall product placement what watch brand does James Bond wear? A: Omega
Q: What is Africa's 2nd-largest country, abbreviated to DRC? A: Democratic Republic of the Congo
Q: Likud, meaning 'the consolidation', is the leading conservative political party (at 2012) of which country? A: Israel
Q: What sort of musical instrument is a cabasa? A: Percussion
Q: The 2,500th anniversary of whose birth was celebrated in China in 1949? A: Confucius
Q: What creature is the 1940-50s TV puppet character Muffin? A: Mule
Q: In what sport do Indian states and city teams compete for the Ranji Trophy? A: Cricket
Q: The human brain represents roughly what percentage of the body's resting metabolic rate (energy expended)? A: 20%
Q: Lebanese-American professor/author Nassim Taleb coined the term '(What colour/color What creature?)' referring to an unpredictable random event that has a vast societal/political/economic impact? A: Black Swan
Q: Via Appia is regarded as the first modern what? A: Road
Q: What was ex-Italian leader Silvio Berlusconi's first criminal conviction (Oct 2012)? A: Tax evasion
Q: Who created the controversial 66ft statue Verity, loaned to UK seaside town Ilfracombe in 2012? A: Damien Hirst
Q: Research published in 2012 by the University of Rio de Janeiro identified what capability as the fundamental enabler of increased brain size in human evolution? A: Cooking
Q: Named after a children's story character, what is the informal astrobiological term for the region around a star within which a planet with surface water could theoretically exist? A: Goldilocks Zone
Q: The attempted assassination of 15 year old Malala Yousafzai by the Taliban, in response to her championing the right of girls to education, took place in what (her home) country? A: Pakistan
Q: The astronomical term 'quasi-stellar radio source' is more commonly expressed as what abbreviated word? A: Quasar
Q: A hang is what sort of musical instrument? A: Percussion
Q: The Chalara Fraxinea fungal disease afflicts? A: Trees
Q: Fujitsu's 2012 'Floral Kiss', controversially designed for women including 'long fingernails-friendly opening' and daily horoscopes, is what sort of product? A: Laptop computer
Q: The expression 'up to scratch', meaning fit for purpose, derives from a technical rule in what discipline? A: Boxing
Q: Clawhammer is a playing style most often associated with which instrument? A: Banjo
Q: Accounting for c.30% of total global tax revenues, what form of tax did France introduce in 1954, W Germany 1968, UK 1973 and China 1984? A: VAT
Q: What make of aircraft is considered the first jet to fly? A: Heinkel
Q: The process by which cardinals meet to elect a new Pope is called the Papal (what?)? A: Conclave
Q: What famous French film production/newsreel brand, established in 1896, was the first major movie corporation? A: Pathé
Q: 'The Continental Army' became what in 1784? A: The United States Army
Q: What country has the internet top level domain (TLD) suffix .za? A: South Africa
Q: Who is the famous husband of the also famous Chinese singer Peng Liyuan? A: Xi Jinping
Q: What term refers to the (typically prehistoric) method of attaching a sharp stone or bone, etc., to a stick or strap to make a tool or weapon? A: Hafting
Q: 'The Law of the Instrument' referring to having just one 'tool' (i.e., approach or method) and so treating every situation the same is known popularly as 'Maslow's (what)'? A: Hammer
Q: The Christian Saint Christopher is most commonly depicted carrying what across a swollen river? A: Jesus Christ
Q: The beat of what aptly titled 1970s disco hit is suggested by the British Heart Foundation (and others) as an ideal CPR rhythm? A: Stayin' Alive
Q: The famous BBC Greenwich Meantime hourly signal 'pips' are closest to which musical note (according to ISO 16)? A: B
Q: Name the autonomous region of NE Spain which periodically is subject to strong independence lobbying? A: Catalonia
Q: DNA evidence supports the idea that what people were the original colonizers of North America? A: Asians
Q: Earliest human use of fire for cooking has been dated at how many years ago? A: One million
Q: What is the common name for the chemical process by which glue, varnish, filler, etc., hardens when polymer chains become linked following UV radiation, mixing, heat, etc? A: Curing
Q: The word sapien in homo sapien refers to being? A: Wise
Q: QR, Aztec, Cyber, and Data Matrix are types of what? A: Barcodes
Q: Which one of these characters is (at 2012) represented by the three tallest statues in the world? A: Buddha
Q: The word trek was first used in? A: Africa
Q: In 1515 the Court of Aldermen of the City of London established what trade as top (based on economic/political power) of an enduring list of livery companies? A: Mercers
Q: Litmus, used in acidity testing, is extracted from? A: Lichen
Q: What is the English name/translation of the 'cire purdue' process of bronze casting? A: Lost Wax
Q: Auger, reel, fan, sieves, stripper-beater, and cutter-bar are parts of what large piece of machinery? A: Combine harvester
Q: The Poise (pronounced 'pwahz', it's French) is a unit of measuring? A: Viscosity
Q: The Ottoman Empire (1299-1922) is otherwise defined as the empire of what modern nationality? A: Turkish
Q: What branch of alternative medicine using natural oils derives its name from ancient Greek for spice? A: Aromatherapy
Q: The New Model Army and The Levellers were groups in which war? A: English Civil War
Q: A graviton is a term in? A: Physics
Q: An ushanka is a Russian what? A: Hat
Q: (Up to) what degree of Neanderthal DNA is found in modern non-African people? A: 4%
Q: What is India's smallest state (by area)? A: Goa
Q: Nintendo's Wii console launched in 2012 is the? A: U
Q: Largely Indian-owned corporation ArclelorMittal (a merger/acquisition of the two names by the latter) is the world's biggest producer of? A: Steel
Q: A censor was an officer of what civilization, responsible for public census, morality, finances, etc? A: Roman
Q: What country has the internet top level domain .sa? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: What country experienced the world's biggest electricity power-cut in July 2012? A: India
Q: The 21st century's second and last solar transit (across the Sun) of what planet happened in 2012? A: Venus
Q: What organization won the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize? A: The European Union
Q: What Sesame Street character featured in anti-Romney advertising in the 2012 US election? A: Big Bird
Q: Among Time magazine's 2012 100 Most Influential Persons in the World, Portia Lucretia Simpson-Miller was elected leader for the second time of what Caribbean island? A: Jamaica
Q: Princess Estelle, Duchess of Östergötland, granddaughter to King Carl XVI Gustaf, became 2nd in line to what nation's throne when born in 2012? A: Sweden
Q: A project led by broadcaster NHK and Tobu Railway Co, which city's 'Skytree' opened as the world's tallest self-supporting tower and 2nd largest building in 2012? A: Tokyo
Q: Which bank was fined a record $1.9bn by US authorities for money-laundering in Dec 2012? A: HSBC
Q: Name the ex-construction worker who died in 2012, whose video-taped beating by Los Angeles police and their initial subsequent acquittals sparked the 1992 Los Angeles Riots? A: Rodney King
Q: In 2012 'The Orphan of Zhao' became the first play of which country to be produced by the Royal Shakespeare Company? A: China
Q: Lady Gaga cancelled her 2012 tour to which country after threats of chaos from protestors? A: Indonesia
Q: Name the French president who began his term in 2012? A: Francois Hollande
Q: What is the year 2012 in Roman numerals? A: MMXII
Q: Which famous hairdresser who died in 2012 created the wedge-bob? A: Vidal Sassoon
Q: How many Sundays are in 2012? A: 53
Q: Who in 2012 made the first submarine solo dive to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the lowest point of the oceans (subsequently to release a 3D film of the dive)? A: James Cameron
Q: Andy William's (1927-2012) TV Show featured what animal who liked cookies? A: Bear
Q: A Judy Garland dress which sold for $302,000 in 2012 was worn in which movie? A: The Wizard of Oz
Q: "Who began his speech, ""Where is Dave?.."" at the 2012 UK Conservative Party Conference?" A: Boris Johnson
Q: Name the retired software pioneer and 2012 fugitive from a murder inquiry who fled Belize and surfaced in Guatemala? A: John McAfee
Q: What nationality is Carlos Slim, the richest person in the world according to Forbes 2012? A: Mexican
Q: Robindro Shaunkor Chowdhury, the world famous performance artist who died in 2012, is better known by what name? A: Ravi Shankar
Q: British actor Brian Cobby (1929-2012) provided the first male voice for what British announcements? A: Speaking Clock
Q: Davy Jones (1945-2012) fronted what popular 1960s pop group? A: The Monkees
Q: Name the NASA Mars Science Laboratory rover which landed on Mars in 2012? A: Curiosity
Q: Name the RBS banker stripped of his knighthood in Jan 2012? A: Fred Goodwin
Q: Justin Welby was appointed to what famous old position in 2012? A: Archbishop of Canterbury
Q: In which 2012 sporting event was the Chinese Ren Cancan defeated by its first ever female Olympic Gold medal winner? A: Womens Boxing
Q: 2012 was the 300th anniversary of the world's first industrial steam-powered machine, which was a? A: Water pump
Q: What city hosted the richest (biggest prize) horse race in 2012? A: Dubai
Q: In 2012 fossils of 1.9m years-old Homo rudolfensis were discovered in? A: Kenya
Q: Who famously accused Tony Abbott of sexism and misogyny in 2012? A: Julia Gillard
Q: Which nation defied international warnings when launching a rocket in Dec 2012? A: North Korea
Q: The American Football Super Bowl final in 2012 is branded by what Roman numerals? A: XLVI
Q: Sir Patrick Moore, world-leading expert on astronomy for six decades who died in 2012, was technically qualified at what academic level? A: Amateur
Q: Which entertainer's gravestone was removed from a Scarborough UK cemetery in 2012? A: Jimmy Savile
Q: In which nation's London embassy did Wikileaks founder Julian Assange seek diplomatic asylum in 2012? A: Ecuador
Q: Which 2002-founded UK budget airline ceased to operate in 2012? A: Bmibaby
Q: Name the famous moonwalking astronaut who died in 2012? A: Neil Armstrong
Q: In 2012 who became the first black person to feature on South African banknotes? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Name the devastating mid/N American hurricane of Oct 2012? A: Sandy
Q: Which American singer, actress and model, said by Guinness World Records to be the most awarded ever, died in Los Angeles in 2012? A: Whitney Houston
Q: Who was appointed US Republican Party nominee for Vice President of the United States Jan 2012? A: Paul Ryan
Q: In 2012 who offered $5m to charity in return for Barack Obama's college and passport application records? A: Donald Trump
Q: Light a Penny Candle and Circle of Friends are books by which hugely popular Irish writer who died in 2012? A: Maeve Binchy
Q: What popular cartoon TV series celebrated 500 editions in 2012? A: The Simpsons
Q: Bradley Wiggins, British winner of the 2012 Tour de France is noted for his 'trademark'? A: Sideburns
Q: In which city did the Rolling Stones play a 2012 surprise gig at Le Trabendo club to 350 fans for £12 each? A: Paris
Q: What nationality is Felix Baumgartner, who skydived through the sound barrier in 2012? A: Austrian
Q: Who played the part of Isambard Kingdom Brunel in the 2012 Olympic Games opening ceremony? A: Kenneth Branagh
Q: In 2012 British MP Nadine Dorries controversially appeared on what reality TV show? A: I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out Of Here
Q: Which Eastern European nation saw protests against Prime Minister Viktor Orban in Jan 2012? A: Hungary
Q: A pastel version of what artwork sold at a New York auction for a record $120m? A: The Scream
Q: Chile experienced large and violent protests by whom in 2012, invoking comparisons with similar 2006 action called (after the protestors' uniforms) The Penguins' Revolution or The March of the Penguins? A: Students
Q: The effective discovery of what particle was announced by CERN at the Large Hadron Collider in 2012? A: Higgs boson
Q: Name the TV/movie actor who died in 2012 and starred in 1960s fantasy sitcom I Dream of Jeannie? A: Larry Hagman
Q: Niall Horan, Zayn Malik, Liam Payne, Harry Styles, and Louis Tomlinson are better known as what 2012 record-breaking unit? A: One Direction
Q: Which famous character from computing tweeted 'This is for everyone' in the 2012 Olympics opening ceremony? A: Tim Berners-Lee
Q: Who wrote the 2012 Man Booker prizewinning novel Bring Up the Bodies? A: Hilary Mantel
Q: In 2012 what laconically-branded sport increased engine capacity from 800 cc to 1,000 cc? A: MotoGP
Q: In 2012 Price Nayef became the second crown prince, after Prince Sultan, to die before ascending to the throne in which country? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: Enrique Pena Nieto became president of which country in 2012? A: Mexico
Q: Which BBC Director General was appointed and resigned in 2012? A: George Entwhistle
Q: 2012 is the 200th anniversary of the what European capital city's status, moved from Turku by Czar Alexander I of Russia? A: Helsinki
Q: Who wrote the 200 year-old letter auctioned for 150,000 euros in 2012, expressing a wish to destroy the Kremlin? A: Napoleon Bonaparte
Q: Who became the youngest F1 triple champion (to date) in Nov 2012? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: What top-selling UK newspaper was produced on Sundays for the first time in 2012? A: The Sun
Q: Who coached/managed both the England and Russia football teams during 2012? A: Fabio Capello
Q: Name the best-selling educational author of the 'Seven Habits of Highly Effective People' who died in Idaho in 2012? A: Stephen Covey
Q: What internet/computing term derives from Old Norse hlekkr, related to Old German gelenk, meaning joint? A: Link
Q: What medical Latin term, literally means 'stiffness of death'? A: Rigor Mortis
Q: The famous Castilian military leader Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar (1043-99) is better known by what name? A: El Cid
Q: Banana Island is the most expensive property in a special edition of monopoly based on which Nigerian city? A: Lagos
Q: In 2012 Shinzo Abe became which nation's eighth prime ministerial appointment in six years, 2006-12? A: Japan
Q: What, having extremes of 'thick' and 'thin', is the measure of a fluid's internal friction/resistance under stress? A: Viscosity
Q: Name the famous guitarist whose collaboration with the Gibson company produced their first and eponymous solid electric guitar in 1952? A: Les Paul
Q: What rejection is shared by LS Lowry, John Lennon; Philip Larkin, Benjamin Zephaniah, and Danny Boyle? Chivalric order; US-visa; Blood donation; or Driving licence? A: Chivalric order
Q: Visceral refers to a human response of what sort? A: Internal
Q: What is Mexico's largest state, and also a famously small dog breed? A: Chihuahua
Q: Optics is a branch of physics specifically concerning? A: Light
Q: The globally widely used Wechsler Scale assesses what in children? A: Intelligence
Q: What event caused Twitter's servers to crash on 25 June 2009? A: Michael Jackson's death
Q: Hyperemesis gravidarum is an extreme form of what commonly named medical condition? A: Morning sickness
Q: Thraex, murmillo, and hoplomachus are types of? A: Roman gladiators
Q: What surname appeared most in the UK Leveson Inquiry Report about media/press privacy and phone hacking? A: Murdoch
Q: What word for 'the end of the world' referred originally to a revelation? A: Apocalypse
Q: From Greek for gadfly/frenzy, what word refers to the recurring period of sexual receptivity in female mammals? A: Oestrus
Q: Blair Athol, Dalwhinnie, Knockando, Glenmorangie and Tamdhu are types of what? A: Whisky
Q: 'Motion Pictures Experts Group Format I (or II), Audio Layer III' is better known as what three-characters? A: MP3
Q: William the Conqueror (William I of England, 1027/8-87, reigned 1066-87) was also known unflatteringly as 'William the (What)'? A: Bastard
Q: The Italian food/word bruschetta refers originally and specifically to which of its characteristics? A: Toasted
Q: Wayne LaPierre is known for his 20-plus-years' controversial leadership of what organization? A: NRA
Q: Typically used in law, the Latin term 'Ipso Facto' means? A: By the fact itself
Q: The US governmental budget crisis at the end of 2012 was referred to as the 'Fiscal (what geological term?)'? A: Cliff
Q: What iconic historically semi-military people, recognized by Russia in 2010 as an ethinicity, are named after the old Cuman/Turkic word meaning 'free man'? A: Cossacks
Q: Antipasto (plural antipasti) refers to what part of an Italian lunch/dinner? A: Before the meal
Q: The term 'ex libris' is traditionally found on a label-plate indicating ownership of a? A: Book
Q: What was the three-letter two-number prefix code in the full name of The Haçienda nightclub in Manchester UK? A: FAC51
Q: The traditional proofreading mark of a wavy line beneath a passage of text gives instruction to change it to? A: Bold
Q: Mariachi is a style of Mexican 'street (what?)'? A: Music
Q: In language the term ellipsis refers to missing/omitted what? A: Words
Q: The Sargasso Sea is named after a? A: Seaweed
Q: What portmanteau word refers to a symbol used to convey a mood or feeling in phone/computer communications? A: Emoticon
Q: 'Il Duce' - subject of revivalist support in Italy in the 2000s - is better known by what name? A: Benito Mussolini
Q: What often controversial medical research/treatment term derives from the Latin 'I shall be pleasing'? A: Placebo
Q: What's the world's oldest amateur rowing club (now at Henley-on Thames, UK) named after the Greek mythological lover of the priestess Hero, who drowned swimming the Hellespont to visit her? A: Leander
Q: The Métis are a substantial group of aboriginal people of which nation? A: Canada
Q: What seabird is named from Norse 'stinking gull' because of vomiting when disturbed? A: Fulmar
Q: What traditional item of apparel (silk, cotton, or paper), used by hand, is named after an old French word for a head covering? A: Handkerchief
Q: Glock pistols are made by which country? A: Austria
Q: Name the big inflatable sphere in which thrill-seeking people roll down hills and on water? A: Zorb
Q: Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio-Pancreatography (ERCP) is used in what field? A: Medicine
Q: What sort of fastener has a crown, legs and teeth? A: Staple
Q: The historic (at 2012, three-branch-line) San Francisco cable car system comprises how many actual cables in total? A: Four
Q: What modern digital display term is an abbreviated portmanteau word from picture and element? A: Pixel
Q: Extraversion/introversion, Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, Neuroticism, and Openness to experience and are the 'Big Five' dimensions of what popular acronymically-named personality analysis theory? A: OCEAN
Q: In early 2013 where was a cat favourite/favorite to replace the shoe or the wheelbarrow? A: Monopoly
Q: What model number Boeing plane is called the Dreamliner (after being renamed in 2005)? A: 787
Q: Frettabladid is (early 2000s) the leading newspaper of which island nation? A: Iceland
Q: Name the Utah USA salt flats famous for land-speed records and a Triumph motorbike model? A: Bonneville
Q: Daniel Hooper, a famous British protestor, is better known by what nickname, earned during his (literally) underground resistance to the Newbury bypass in 1996? Muddy; Boggy; Swampy; or Dirty? A: Swampy
Q: Operation Serval refers to France's military intervention in which former colony's civil war? A: Mali
Q: In 2013, 29% of what meat was found in Tesco's value beefburgers? A: Horse
Q: White chocolate consists of sugar, milk solids, salt, and specifically what other main ingredient? A: Cocoa butter
Q: Name the form of carbon considered (early 2000s) the strongest material ever, which having a thickness of one atom has just two dimensions? A: Graphene
Q: What word referring to an organizational disaster derives from Venetian glass-blowing? A: Fiasco
Q: What is the modern-day name of the once colonial nation French Sudan? A: Mali
Q: A burning truckload of 'brunost' - brown (what?) - caused a 5-day fire in a Norwegian road tunnel in Jan 2013? A: Cheese
Q: Beatrix became queen of which European nation in 1980? A: The Netherlands
Q: The 1923 Great Kanto earthquake was until 2011 which nation's biggest? A: Japan
Q: Jumpy, Deafy, Dizzey, Hickey, Wheezy, Baldy, Gabby, Nifty, Sniffy, Swift, Lazy, Puffy, Stuffy, Tubby, Shorty and Burpy were shortlisted to be what in the early 1930s? A: Dwarfs
Q: Which global-reaching organization was revealed in 2013 to hold property investments exceeding £½bn derived from 'recognition' payments received in 1929 from Benito Mussolini? A: The Vatican
Q: Which fish became subject to EU fishing quota arguments in 2013 due to its significant movement into Icelandic waters? A: Mackerel
Q: What ingredient causes a can of cola to sink in water, whereas a can of diet cola floats? A: Sugar
Q: (Before Jurassic Park) the word raptor technically refers to what sort of carnivorous creature? A: Bird
Q: What slang word for a sailor derives from old Dutch meaning 'bed companion'? A: Matelot
Q: The Latin term 'per capita' means 'for... The entire population; Each person; Paying customers; or Registered voters? A: Each person
Q: Pandeiro is a popular example of what in Brazil? A: Percussion
Q: The Republic of Upper Volta was renamed what (two-words) in 1984, meaning respectively 'men of integrity' and 'fatherland' in its two native languages? A: Burkina Faso
Q: Name the UK seaside town famous for jet stone, and whose St Mary's Church featured in Bram Stoker's Dracula? A: Whitby
Q: Where in the human body is the glottis? A: Larynx
Q: In physics, the elementary exchange particles ('gauge bosons') between quarks are called? A: Gluons
Q: The six soft alkali metals (lithium, sodium, potassium, rubidium, caesium, and francium) react with water to produce what gas? A: Hydrogen
Q: In terms of actions, activities, projects, etc., the word hiatus means a? A: Pause
Q: The Shoemaker-Levy 9 Comet broke up and impacted where, in 1994, to huge astronomical and media interest? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the only 'big cat' found wild in the Americas which roars? A: Jaguar
Q: Peripatetic refers to work which involves? A: Travel
Q: The word nexus refers to a? A: Connection
Q: What does a philogynist like? A: Women
Q: The name of what workwear was derived from the Dongri area in South Mumbai India? A: Dungarees
Q: Which pottery pioneer produced 'creamware' and 'jasperware' in the mid-late 1700s? A: Josiah Wedgwood
Q: What is a saury fish, a captain, and a South African long-sleeved shirt? A: Skipper
Q: The Roman settlement of Arausio in SE France later became what significantly named town and subsequent principality/emblem in Dutch, English, southern African and Irish history? A: Orange
Q: How many points are on Twitter's 2012-introduced tweeting flying bird logo (wings, tail and beak)? A: Six
Q: Which notable leader won the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize? A: Barack Obama
Q: The Chicxulub crater is a prehistoric impact crater buried underneath the Yucatan Peninsula in what country? A: Mexico
Q: What eponymous 1969 theory blames organizations for promoting managers to levels at which they are incompetent? A: The Peter Principle
Q: What Rome-founded fashion house and handbag specialist sponsored a 2m euro restoration of the Trevi Fountain in 2013? A: Fendi
Q: Bardiche, Bill, Glaive, Halberd, and Voulge are types of? A: Weaponry
Q: Scoliosis affects which part of the body? A: Spine
Q: Italian Jacopo Peri (1561-1633) is regarded as the inventor of? A: Opera
Q: What chocolate, biscuit and raisin confection, otherwise known as 'fridge cake', is named after an Indian-English word for a light snack? A: Tiffin
Q: The Manganese Bronze company took over production of what famous vehicle from 1973-2012, first made in 1948? A: Black Taxicab
Q: What is the extremely strong natural glucose-derived polymer of fungi cell walls, crustacean/insect exoskeletons, etc., also used in pharmacy and industry? A: Chitin
Q: What single iconic name is associated with a fried sandwich of peanut butter, banana and bacon? A: Elvis
Q: Ikebana, English Garden, and High Style are styles of what? A: Flower arranging
Q: What singing voice originally held the melody in choral music? A: Tenor
Q: What sort of implement has a heel and toe and is characterized by variable features including kerf, gullet, fleam, rake, and points per inch? A: Saw
Q: What is the female equivalent of the Oedipus complex in Jungian/Freudian psychosexual theory? A: Electra
Q: Cape, Katanga, Masai, Barbary and Asiatic are generally considered sub-species of what 'apex' predator? A: Lion
Q: A metal ring or grommet in a sail or other nautical attachment, through which a rope passes is a? A: Cringle
Q: A stilb is a measure of? A: Luminance
Q: In ancient Greek mythology the godly personification of the sky, Uranus, had his what cut off? A: Testicles
Q: Charles Stent practised what surgery, for which he invented his eponymous technique? A: Dental
Q: From Greek words meaning 'flesh preserver' what coal-tar oil was widely used in wood treatment and medicine? A: Creosote
Q: The nickname of 9th century Islamic mathematician Abu Ja'far Muhammad ibn Musa ('al-Kwarizmi' - the man of Kwarizm) is the etymological source of what computing term? A: Algorithm
Q: What was the name given in Ancient Greek mythology to the time/situation before the creation of the universe? A: Chaos
Q: Name the fictional suburb in Ira Levin's 1972 novel which became an expression for a wife who submissively obeys her husband? A: Stepford
Q: What logical common name is given to the cells which initiate cardiac contraction and so control heart rate? A: Pacemaker
Q: What informal rule, named after Intel Corp's co-founder, predicts the doubling of transistors on microchips every two years? A: Moore's Law
Q: What Italian word for 'it follows' refers to a smooth transition between two items, especially musical pieces? A: Segue
Q: What is the formal (systematic) chemical name for the alcohol in intoxicating drink? A: Ethanol
Q: The hairstyling device used in creating a bun is commonly called a? A: Donut
Q: A 'rum baba' is a? A: Cake
Q: What political speech/campaign term derives from the tradition of cutting down a tree to make a platform for the speaker? A: Stump
Q: The volume of (soccer) football (regulation adult 70cm circumference) is approximately how many litres? A: 5.8
Q: Béchamel, Espagnole, Velouté, Hollandaise, Tomate are the five 'mother (what?)' of classical French cuisine? A: Sauces
Q: In chemistry and physics the tendency of a substance to vaporize is termed? A: Volatility
Q: The Italian fashion name Prada refers to? A: The founder
Q: Founded in 1827 by Karl Baedeker and run by his family until 1984, the eponymous German company is famous for? A: Travel guides
Q: Nits, Blondels, Skots, Lamberts, and Footlamberts are measures of? A: Luminance
Q: Weibo is a what in China? A: Microblog
Q: What popular food comes from the Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima plants? A: Rice
Q: A 'sinkhole' is a collapse of the ground into a void below caused by? A: Water
Q: Poached eggs on muffins with hollandaise sauce, and ham or bacon are popularly called 'eggs (What?)'? A: Benedict
Q: What metaphorical torture chamber reference derives from George Orwell's 1949 book Nineteen Eighty-Four? A: Room 101
Q: Tritium is a radioactive isotope of? A: Hydrogen
Q: Name the vast global accountancy firm which effectively ceased after criminal involvement in the 2001 Enron corporate fraud? A: Arthur Andersen
Q: Whose famous old Brown Ale (still made) was first brewed in Whitechapel, London, in 1902? A: Mann's
Q: Name the illness caused by a reaction to gliadin, a gluten protein in wheat, barley, rye, etc? A: Coeliac disease
Q: The Innocent smoothie drinks business was wholly acquired by which more famous drinks corporation in 2013? A: Coca Cola
Q: The handtool which may be struck or bowed as a musical instrument is a 'singing (what)'? A: Saw
Q: What uniquely specialized profession traditionally uses a Piscatory Ring? A: A Pope
Q: In which human sensory organ is Bruch's membrane? A: Eye
Q: Bort or boart refers to waste/inferior what, used for industrial purposes? A: Diamonds
Q: What 2nd World War US pilot's alliterative expression for an unidentified flying object, from the 'Smoky Stover' cartoon strip, inspired the name of a rock band? A: Foo Fighter
Q: What was the first element discovered in space (actually at the Sun)? A: Helium
Q: What smartphone operating system increased its market share from 4% in 2009 to 70% in 2013? A: Android
Q: Devised in 1920 from Russian research into proximity sensing, what eponymous musical instrument is controlled by the player's proximity to it? A: Theremin
Q: The famously gruelling c.1,100mile (1,800km) Iditarod Trial Dog Sled Race is run annually each March where? A: Alaska
Q: A gimlet tool is traditionally shaped like the letter? A: T
Q: The prefix 'neo' (neocon, Neolithic, neo-Nazi, neonatal, etc) means? A: New
Q: The word psalm derives from meaning a song sung to what instrument? A: Harp
Q: Hydromel is a very old alcoholic drink made with fermented what? A: Honey
Q: The flammable intoxicating compound Hydroxyethane (C2H6O) is better known as what chemical? A: Ethanol
Q: San Pellegrino is an Italian? A: Water
Q: Originating in art around 500BC, what is the more common modern name for a nimbus, aureole, glory, or gloriole? A: Halo
Q: Which 1949 novel featured the ironically named Ministries of the Peace, Plenty, Love, and Truth? A: Nineteen Eighty-Four
Q: What cocktail, named in Cuban Spanish, comprises white rum, lime/lemon, sugar and mint? A: Mojito
Q: At a conference a 'plenary session' refers to a session which involves? A: Everyone
Q: Badinage describes verbal communication which is? A: Witty
Q: Founded in 1769, name the specialist British publisher of guides to aristocracy, etiquette, and correct forms of address? A: Debrett's
Q: What weapon's dangerous part is defined in two sections, namely the forte and the foible? A: Sword
Q: What was a Leviathan in its original biblical references? A: Sea monster
Q: What is the common alternative US term for a (UK) 'estate agent'? A: Realtor
Q: What clothing decoration took its name from Italian 'zecchino' and 'zecca' (= mint), and Arabic 'sikka' (= 'a die for coining')? A: Sequin
Q: Vogue magazine's front cover featured for the first time a model wearing what in November 1988? A: Jeans
Q: A birthstone of March, the mineral heliotrope is commonly called what, due to its red inclusions? A: Bloodstone
Q: Turgescence or tumefaction, affecting parts of the human body, is more commonly called what? A: Swelling
Q: ALMA, in Chile, cost $1.4bn, 10 years to build, became the largest operating what in 2013? A: Telescope
Q: What religion takes its name from the Greek for 'universal', from the root words meaning 'in respect of [the] whole'? A: Catholicism
Q: In Manhattan, NYC, what is famously the oldest public hospital in the US? A: Bellevue
Q: Warning symbols for radioactivity and biological hazards employ a three-part icon called a what, originally referring to a three-leaved plant? A: Trefoil
Q: Argentinian Jorge Mario Bergoglio made the news in 2013 as a? A: Pope
Q: The word 'haram' refers to both a sanctuary and a forbidden act in which religion? A: Islam
Q: Which travel guide publisher was acquired by the BBC's commercial division BBC Worldwide Ltd for £130m in 2007, and sold for £51m in 2013? A: Lonely Planet
Q: Where is the coastal village of Pugwash, famous for thought leadership and peace conferences? A: Canada
Q: What volatile metallic element forms the nitrate compound Sr(NO3)2 commonly used in red fireworks? A: Strontium
Q: Where in the human body are glial cells? A: Brain
Q: What reductive metaphor refers to a percentage subtraction from the market value of an asset, which became a description for the EU-imposed tax on Cyprus bank deposits in 2013? A: Haircut
Q: Which US corporation sold its personal computer business including Thinkpad brand to the world-leading Chinese manufactuer Lenovo in 2005? A: IBM
Q: Opprobrium refers to a deep form of? A: Criticism
Q: What Caribbean dance shares its name with a religious concept of somewhere between heaven and hell? A: Limbo
Q: Orogeny refers to the process by which what are created? A: Mountains
Q: What medical/industrial sterilization equipment is named from the meaning 'self-fastening'? A: Autoclave
Q: What item of apparel metaphorically (with colour prefix, usually black or white) refers informally to an internet hacker? A: Hat
Q: Founded as Thames Ironworks FC in 1895, which football club (later renamed) will occupy the London Olympic Stadium from 2016 (a clue is in club nickname and badge)? A: West Ham United FC
Q: Which famous smoker is associated with the expression 'three pipe problem'? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: In 1998 who was the first 'First Lady' to appear on the cover of Vogue? A: Hilary Clinton
Q: The unrecognized state of Biafra existed from 1967-1970 in the south-east of which country? A: Nigeria
Q: The Christian Eucharist ceremonial act is based on what event from religious scripture? A: Last Supper
Q: A fire ant colony can join together as a self-transporting? A: Raft
Q: "What does the French-English expression ""C'est la vie!"" mean?" A: Such is life!
Q: Wampum refers to decorative/monetary shell-beads in which culture? A: Native American Indian
Q: Named after US economist Arthur Laffer, his eponymous Curve refers graphically to notional/optimal government revenues according to levels of? A: Taxation
Q: What creature is a slang word in French for a newspaper? A: Canard
Q: What are named after English Dr John Braxton Hicks (1823-97)? A: Contractions in pregnancy
Q: Provenance, originally relating to an artwork, now extending widely to other created or collectible works, refers specifically to? A: History
Q: What is the common technical term for the contractive skin of a liquid which resists external force? A: Surface tension
Q: The French word 'derailleur' is also used in English referring to a mechanism on what sort of machine? A: Bicycle
Q: Technically what must be specified in order for a given speed to be termed a velocity? A: Direction
Q: The German Bavarian occupational name Hitler (originally Hüttler) referred to a builder of? A: Huts
Q: What technical financial term, from Latin meaning 'it shall be', and also a major automotive brand, refers to official money/currency of a nation? A: Fiat
Q: What word follows either 'stone' or 'Chinese' in referring to deliberate obstruction? A: Wall
Q: What is commonly said in Germany to a person who has just sneezed? A: Gesundheit
Q: What war produced the most fatalities? A: World War Two
Q: Screeno, Keno, and Housey-Housey are name variations of what more commonly known gambling game? A: Bingo
Q: What is an unrealistically optimistic person, after the title-character of Eleanor Porter's famous 1913 novel? A: Pollyanna
Q: With the headline 'Simply the Best' who at 73 became Vogue's oldest front cover model (April 2013 German edition)? A: Tina Turner
Q: What is the common name for the electrically excitable cells of the brain which process data via electrical and chemical signals? A: Neurons
Q: Ashtanga Vinyasa, Bikram, and Hatha Vidya are styles of what? A: Yoga
Q: The American 1893 Nix v Hedden court case determined (and still), for US customs taxation purposes, based on conventional usage, what to be a vegetable and not a fruit? A: Tomato
Q: Traditionally made of paper over a wooden frame what is a Japanese 'shoji'? A: Sliding door
Q: What word prefixes business, room, case, and down to produce four other words? A: Show
Q: What was salvaged from HMS Lutine after it sank in 1799 and is still used on the main underwriting floor at Lloyd's of London? Compass; Captain's desk; Bell; or Globe? A: Bell
Q: The ancient Roman silver coin called fully/originally 'denarius nummus' meant and equated to a 'Coin containing [worth] ten (what?)'? A: Asses
Q: The French-English word billet-doux refers to a? A: Love letter
Q: What interesting old English word refers typically to a person's pale complexion but in origin and other contexts may also mean dark? A: Wan
Q: What time-related term was given to the American Patriot 'rapid response' militia forces assembled before and active during the American Revolutionary War of 1775-83? A: Minutemen
Q: Bob, bowl, bun, chignon, and tonsure are types of what? A: Hairstyle
Q: What word appears before tilt, flood, face, house, and length, to produce five different terms? A: Full
Q: Clio, typically holding a scroll, is the ancient Greek muse of? A: History
Q: What, resembling a tomato and pepper hybrid, is the edible fruit produced by Diospyros trees, source of ebony wood? A: Persimmon
Q: What physics term, a metaphor for meaningfulness, is the tendency of something to oscillate (with greater amplitude at some frequencies than at others)? A: Resonance
Q: The moral code, 'Treat others as you like to be treated', is known as the 'Ethic of (What)' - a principle of exchange for mutual effect/benefit, and word used variously in science and mathematics? A: Reciprocity
Q: The pseudo-Latin expression 'hax pax max Deus adimax' used in conjuring from the 1600s developed into what modern term referring to 'kidology' or nonsensical explanation? A: Hocus-pocus
Q: What descriptively prefixes a species of bear, cobra, and caiman (like an alligator), referring to something worn by some people? A: Spectacled
Q: Who famously became leader of the vast and powerful US Teamsters trade union in 1957, imprisoned in 1967, missing in 1975, and declared dead in 1982? A: Jimmy Hoffa
Q: What river in SW Europe rises in the Swiss Alps and flows over 500 miles through Lake Geneva, Lyons, to the Mediterranean west of Marseilles? A: Rhône
Q: The 'bacronym' (a reverse acronym) 'Query Newlyn Harbour' is used as a mnemonic in what field? A: Aviation
Q: The main purpose of a bowline knot is to produce a? A: Loop
Q: Who, founder of the Mongol Empire, was the grandfather of the Mongol leader Kublai Khan (1215-94)? A: Ghengis Khan
Q: Which people originated the game lacrosse? Dutch; Scottish; Native Americans; or Chinese? A: Native American
Q: Previously called Ezo/Yezo/Yeso/Yesso, what is Japan's north and second-largest island? A: Hokkaido
Q: What name for a type of railings/fence originally referred to a defensive line of wooden stakes sharpened and angled into the ground? A: Palisade
Q: The North Atlantic Drift ocean current over NW Europe starts as what at the US Florida Strait? A: Gulf Stream
Q: Cassia refers to variants of which spice? A: Cinnamon
Q: Chordata, Echinodermata, Anthropoda, and Anelida are four phyla (subgroups) of? A: Animals
Q: Serpula lacrymans is the technical name for what affliction of wood, notably in buildings? A: Dry rot
Q: Someone whose occupation is a gillie (or ghillie) works where? A: Scottish Highlands
Q: What two-faced Roman god of beginnings and transitions is a name for a word which has two opposite meanings, and the derivation of the first month of the year? A: Janus
Q: What is the common name for the northern hemisphere tree genus Betula, having catkins, winged nuts, and bark that peels in strips? A: Birch
Q: What capital city lies at the coordinates 53 20N 6 15W? A: Dublin
Q: Name the prehistoric 'humanoid species' found near Lewes UK 1912 and shown to be a hoax in 1953? A: Piltdown Man
Q: What South Honshu city in Japan, associated with international climate change agreement, was its nation's capital 794-1192? A: Kyoto
Q: Kingda Ka, Takabisha, X2, Steel Dragon 2000, and Millennium Force are famous what? A: Roller-coasters
Q: The US city of Memphis, Tennessee, was named after the ancient (c.3000BC) Memphis city capital of which nation? A: Egypt
Q: What original 1960s surfer's slang expression of thrill or delight was popularized by the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles children's cartoon? A: Cowabunga
Q: Atoms of the same elements with the same number of protons and electrons, but different numbers of neutrons, are called what? A: Isotopes
Q: The Arab food falafal is commonly made from? A: Chickpeas
Q: Which famous English brewer of ale, established in 1787 next to London's Tower Bridge, has a cockerel as its emblem? A: Courage
Q: Which children's TV animated character, named 'Pollux' in the original French version, is based on a 'drop-eared Skye terrier'? A: Dougal
Q: Which word, broadly synonymous with 'typeface', derives from French 'to melt'? A: Font
Q: A radionuclide is a radioactive? A: Isotope
Q: ASCII (referring to computer language) means what in full? A: American Standard Code for Information Interchange
Q: A traditional light-bulb containing a glowing filament is technically called what, from the Latin 'glow white'? A: Incandescent
Q: What colour/color flag was historically first displayed to indicate sickness aboard a ship? A: Yellow
Q: Central to Norse mythology, Yggdrasil is a huge what, connected to the cosmos? A: Tree
Q: The Indian currency the Rupee takes its name from Hindi and Sanskrit, 'wrought (what metal)'? A: Silver
Q: The significant 18th century Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler (1707-83) is noted for solving the 'Seven (What?) of Königsberg problem'? A: Bridges
Q: What pluralized term refers to a building's roof edge adjoining its wall, usually designed to prevent rainwater ingress? A: Eaves
Q: The green gemstone peridot is known in its mineral form by what edible coloured/colored name? A: Olivine
Q: What term for a fungal mold derives from an old mistaken idea that it distilled from the air? A: Mildew
Q: What air mattress genericized trademark is a portmanteau of its two-word description? A: Lilo
Q: What word prefixes the words ball, board, code, core and hearted to make five new words/terms? A: Hard
Q: Approximately how many gallons of blood is pumped by the average 'at rest' human heart per day? A: 2,000
Q: In which decade was Mount Everest first climbed? A: 1950s
Q: What is the English translation of the German carmaker's name Volkswagen? A: People's car
Q: Erich Kästner's famous 1929 children's novel set in Berlin is called 'Emil and the (What?')? A: Detectives
Q: According to majority scholarly opinion, what was Jesus Christ's main spoken language? A: Aramaic
Q: Batwing, Corkscrew, Hammerhead turn, Heartline roll, Horseshoe and Immelmann are elements of what form of entertainment? A: Roller-coasters
Q: What sugar substitute, also known as glucitol, is named after the sorb fruit of the sorbus tree? A: Sorbitol
Q: What are the fatty compounds/derivatives which store energy, signal, and provide structure in the cells of living things? A: Lipids
Q: The western part of the US/Mexico border runs through which desert, named after the Mexican state it adjoins? A: Sonoran
Q: From the Latin for 'godlike' what is the traditional word for the academic study of religion and its ministry? A: Divinity
Q: The 'degree' symbol ° indicates what variation of a musical chord? A: Diminished
Q: A chalice - as in the expression 'poisoned chalice' - is literally a? A: Goblet
Q: Apples, plums, cherries, apricots, raspberries and strawberries all belong to which plant family? A: Rose
Q: D'addario, Elixir, Rotosound and Ernie Ball are leading makers of what musical accessory? A: Strings
Q: The term 'mondegreen' refers to? A: Misheard lyrics
Q: The AZERTY keyboard layout is standard in? A: France
Q: The expression 'sour grapes', from one of Aesop's Fables, involves which creature? A: Fox
Q: From what fruit is perry traditionally made? A: Pears
Q: The term 'cytoplasm' originated in? A: Biology
Q: In motion-detection and automated lighting sensors what does PIR mean? A: Passive Infrared
Q: What metaphor aptly refers to the marketing of US multinational US corporation Bausch and Lomb? A: Focus
Q: The Japanese food word sushi referred originally to? A: Rice
Q: The diacritical mark resembling a wavy hyphen (here shown above the letter ñ) is called a? A: Tilde
Q: What note is produced at the twelfth fret of the top (highest pitched) string on a conventionally tuned guitar? A: E
Q: What intangible communication aid did Dr Ludwig Zamenhof create c.1880, 'to foster harmony between people of different nations'? A: Esperanto
Q: Static electricity is fundamentally produced by? A: Friction
Q: Which country, the world's fifth-largest, is named after its first export? A: Brazil
Q: Which country's name, existing 1929-2003, meant 'South Slavs'? A: Yugoslavia
Q: The human brain's frontal lobe, chiefly processing cognitive functions relating to reward, attention, short-term memory tasks, planning, motivation, etc., is fully mature at (very) approximately what age? A: Thirty
Q: Muscovite, used in electrical capacitors, is a processed form of what geological mineral? A: Mica
Q: Which nation's 'national anthem' is known as 'Qaumi Tarana' and alternatively 'Pak Sarzamin' (sacred land)? A: Pakistan
Q: A sarcophagus traditionally contains a? A: Corpse
Q: What popular Australian bird is named after an ancient stringed instrument? A: Lyrebird
Q: Where is the Barbary Coast? A: North Africa
Q: The common vocal sound produced by blocking exhaled airflow (when voicing a vowel) by suddenly closing the vocal tract is called a '(what?) stop'? A: Glottal stop
Q: The base of Pimm's No1 Cup liqueur is? A: Gin
Q: Pales, Fesses, Canton, and Saltire are types of designs of what? A: Flags
Q: Carborundum and Corundum are compounds/minerals traditionally used in? A: Abrasives
Q: Langlauf (literally 'long-term' in German) refers to an endurance form of which sport? A: Skiing
Q: Pavilion, girdle, table, and culet are aspects of a what? A: Gemstone
Q: What is the traditional trade surname for a person who made or sold (typically knitted) legwear and socks? A: Hosier
Q: Quark, clabber, twaróg, and viili are international variations of a food made from? A: Milk
Q: What term for a structure in maths, science and human organization is from Latin 'breeding woman'? A: Matrix
Q: The beef cut called brisket comes from where on the animal? A: Chest
Q: The verb word stymie, meaning to obstruct something, originally referred to a now obsolete rule in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Which famous current Nestlé confectionery brandname, established 1936, was named after J M Barrie's popular London stage comedy, originally unsuccessfully launched on Broadway in 1901? A: Quality Street
Q: In 1908 psychologist Alfred Adler cited which leader in proposing an inferiority complex in short people, which became known as the ('What leader?) Syndrome'? A: Napoleon
Q: What is the South African style of dried meat named originally in Dutch meaning 'rump strip'? A: Biltong
Q: Cadence in music and language technically and originally referred to rhythmic or tonal effect associated with a? A: End
Q: Nephrite, Ca2(Mg, Fe)5Si8O22(OH)2, is one of two minerals more commonly known as what anciently treasured green gemstone, and once considered China's 'imperial gem'? A: Jade
Q: What unusual shape might a rainbow adopt when seen from a plane flying above the clouds? A: Ring
Q: In which country is the most remote (farthest away) place from any sea or ocean? A: China
Q: Which bit of Napoleon Boneparte was famously claimed to have been acquired in the late 1900s for several thousand dollars by US medical scientist and war paraphernalia collector John Lattimer? A: Penis
Q: The biological mating theory that males seek novelty and females seek familiarity is known as the '(What US President?) Effect'? A: Coolidge
Q: What joint in the body leverages the fastest human motion? A: Shoulder
Q: Name the vast South Korean conglomerate including car-maker which went bankrupt in 1999? A: Daewoo
Q: What iconic genus of fish (technical name Hippocampus) is considered the slowest swimming of all fish, whose dwarf species achieves no more than about 1.5metres per hour? A: Seahorse
Q: Graminoids are more commonly known as what plant form? A: Grasses
Q: What trade uses a pattress or pattress box? A: Electrician
Q: (At 2013) the 230m high Heron Tower is the tallest skyscraper of which historical financial city centre district? A: London
Q: Ingvar Kamprad founded what famous modern-day organization? A: IKEA
Q: What is the main ingredient of the modern breakfast food and energy bar called granola? A: Oats
Q: As at 2013 what country boasted the four most profitable banks in the world? A: China
Q: What term refers to the off-putting banter directed by bowlers/fielders to opposing batsmen on a cricket pitch? A: Sledging
Q: The Bugatti car logo features which reversed capital letter in a ligature with B, standing for the founder (Bugatti's) first name? A: E
Q: What work-related term popularly refers to loan companies which offer short-term unsecured personal loans at high interest rates? A: Payday
Q: The term forensic refers to investigative technologies and sciences in relation to? A: Law and crime
Q: The 'morna' is the national music and dance style of which central Atlantic archipelago island nation? A: Cape Verde
Q: What number features most prevalently internationally in toll-free or 'freefone' telephony? A: 800
Q: Name the CIA employee who famously became a whistleblower in 2013, revealing details of US/UK mass public surveillance? A: Edward Snowden
Q: Botija, udu, and ghatam are types of? A: Musical instruments
Q: E20 and SW19 are codes famously associated with? A: Sport
Q: "US composer/artist John Cage's most famous and controversial 1952 work, called 4'33"", requires the musician(s) to play for its entire three-movement 4mins 33secs duration?" A: Nothing
Q: The straight-legged high-kicking march used by many military forces, especially ceremonially, is popularly called the what? A: Goosestep
Q: According to legend, the Gordian Knot, cut by Alexander the Great, tethered a what? A: Cart
Q: A plantar wart is more commonly known as a what? A: Verruca
Q: The 'Bechdel Test' is an informal measure of what in films and other fictional entertainment? A: Gender bias
Q: What country was first to experience the Renaissance period in Europe? A: Italy
Q: In physics a tachyon is a hypothetical particle which has what characteristic? A: Faster than light
Q: A proliferation of new Catholic saints followed the removal of which metaphorical real job role from Vatican canonization in 1983? A: Devil's Advocate
Q: What is the popular old name for a dog's thumb; the obsolete inner toe on some dogs's legs; also a false hoof of deer? A: Dewclaw
Q: Which nation developed and makes the Uzi sub-machine gun? A: Israel
Q: The US Presidential official state guest house in Washington DC is called '(What?) House'? A: Blair
Q: The 180th meridian (antimeridian), dividing east and west hemispheres, passes through which island nation, named after main isle Viti Levu? A: Fiji
Q: The Italian bread ciabatta is named literally (actually) after what footwear? A: Slipper
Q: Name the famous maker of soy sauce whose logo/name represent '10,000 tortoises'? A: Kikkoman
Q: The verb word 'proscribe' means to? A: Forbid
Q: What mountain range makes moist winds rise and precipitate causing the monsoon of SW Asia? A: The Himalayas
Q: The lollipop brandname Chupa Chups is based on the Spanish verb to what? A: Suck
Q: What is the famous weaponry invention of Israeli army officer Uziel Gal (1923-2002)? A: Uzi submachine gun
Q: Which corporation developed the Encarta encyclopedia? A: Microsoft
Q: The biological term 'postorbital' refers to behind the? A: Eye
Q: Which traditional southern US drink is strongly associated with the Kentucky Derby? A: Mint Julep
Q: What prefix word joins with hearted, house, ship and year to produce four other words? A: Light
Q: What piece initially occupies H8 on a conventional chessboard diagram? A: Castle
Q: What was Italian scientist Aloysius Lilius' globally significant chronological creation of 1582? A: Gregorian Calendar
Q: The bay leaf plant originated what term of glory or repute? A: Laureate
Q: The Latin 'cochleare majus' was the common 1700s term for what kitchen/chemist measurement? A: Tablespoon
Q: The South American tradename 'chiclero' refers to a worker who collects the raw material for which hugely popular confectionery product? A: Gum
Q: The Patrouille de France is the national? A: Aerial Display Team
Q: The bird group Merops Apiaster is more commonly named after what creature that it eats? A: Bee
Q: The construction term 'soffit' refers to what aspect of an arch or overhang? A: Underside
Q: Which living things have phloem and xylem? A: Plants
Q: In music what is the relative major chord of F#m (F sharp minor)? A: A
Q: The mentha plant genus is more commonly called what? A: Mint
Q: The early 2000s brands Heat, Fantasy, Pink Friday, Fame, and Lovely, are examples of celebrity product diversification into? A: Perfumes
Q: An insect of the order Diptera is more commonly called a what? A: Fly
Q: The Fresnel lens (in which concentric steps maximise light focus and minimise lens weight), popular in the 1900s in vehicle lights, was first devised c.1820 for what application? A: Lighthouses
Q: What is the fruit of the Phoenix genus of plants? A: Dates
Q: Which one of these refers to a summary rather than a verbatim quote? Abstract, Excerpt, Extract? A: Abstract
Q: What colour/color traditionally are the Smurf cartoon characters? A: Blue
Q: Which car manufacturer produced the models Giulietta, Berlina, Brera and Spider? A: Alfa Romeo
Q: What popular superhero is also the largest land-dwelling member of the Mustelidae (weasel) family? A: Wolverine
Q: What vegetable's thinner lighter variant has an established alternative name 'Tenderstem'? A: Broccoli
Q: Pinophyta trees are characterized by what reproductive fruit? A: Cones
Q: What Lockheed plane model is claimed to be the longest continuously produced military aircraft in history (at 2013)? A: Hercules
Q: What alternative therapy aims to remove poisonous metals/calcium from the body using the same-named chemical process by which ligands (ions or molecules) bond to atoms? A: Chelation
Q: The traditional legal term 'tort' is commonly and technically a? A: Civil wrong
Q: What social networking website attracted regulatory attention in summer 2013 after threats to female rights campaigners? A: Twitter
Q: What does the German word 'verboten' mean? A: Forbidden
Q: The Gregorian Calendar, introduced in 1582, is named after Gregory, a? A: Pope
Q: The term Phrygian Cap refers to? A: Headwear
Q: On the birth of Prince George of Cambridge in 2013 who was relegated to 6th in line to the British throne? A: Princess Beatrice of York
Q: What is the measurement unit for linear mass density of fibres/fibers, commonly used in grading tights/stockings? A: Denier
Q: The medical condition Urticaria is more commonly known as? A: Hives
Q: Which nation in 2013 became the first to legalize marijuana production and sale? A: Uruguay
Q: Before 1967 BBC Radio 2 was called the '(What?) Programme'? A: Light
Q: A pilaster is an ornamental architectural feature made to resemble a? A: Column
Q: Alma, Brown Turkey, Desert King, Italian Black, and Kadota are types of what fruit/plant? A: Figs
Q: In which part of the human body do red blood cells develop? A: Bone marrow
Q: What comet is responsible for the Perseid meteor shower, through which Earth passes every July/August? A: Swift-Tuttle
Q: What traditionally provides the flavour/flavor in a frangipane cake filling? A: Almond
Q: Which English surgeon saved King Edward VII and Joseph Merrick? A: Sir Frederick Treves
Q: What business is the Saks Fifth Avenue chain, named after its Manhattan NYC site? A: Department store
Q: The terms/concepts of kaitiaki and kaitiakitanga referring to guardianship of sky, sea and land originated in which indigenous culture? A: Maori
Q: The Rod of Asclepius, a serpent and rod symbol from Greek mythology, is a widely used logo icon in? A: Medicine
Q: What herb used in alternative medicine as a tonic and aphrodisiac is named from Chinese 'man plant root' because its root resembles a human leg? A: Ginseng
Q: The commune (township/parish) Les Baux-de-Provence in south-central France is associated with what metallic element? A: Aluminium
Q: What/who was Yahweh, (expanded from Hebrew YHWH), in the ancient kingdoms of Israel and Judah? A: God
Q: What medieval architectural feature was typically designed to the disadvantage of right-handed swordsmen? A: Spiral staircase
Q: What is the traditional flavour/flavor additive in cream soda? A: Vanilla
Q: On which island is the popular Caribbean resort abbreviated to 'Mobay'? A: Jamaica
Q: "What highly symbolic term refers to a meteor typically defined as ""a meteor brighter than any of the planets""?" A: Fireball
Q: Arnova, made by the French corporation Archos, is an 'entry level' brand of what? A: Tablet computers
Q: Harold Pinter's famous 1957 play The Dumb Waiter is about two? A: Hit-men
Q: What dental term refers to the appearance of new teeth in the mouth? A: Eruption
Q: What is the old common name for Hamamelis or Winterbloom and its extract, used for skin/bruises/acne treatment (and dowsing)? A: Witch Hazel
Q: Who sat in the 'Loose Box' of Edward VII's coronation at Westminster Abbey, his? A: Mistresses
Q: What term for a sweet tasty liquid derives from Greek 'drink of the gods'? A: Nectar
Q: In African music an mbira is a (what?) piano? A: Thumb
Q: What letters traditionally occupy the 6 button on a standard 'western' telephone keypad (no cheating)? A: MNO
Q: Name Google's music streaming service? A: Play
Q: The informal term nomophobia refers to anxiety from being without one's? A: Mobile-phone
Q: Name the type of chemical compound which shrinks body tissues, whose properties are associated with the puckering mouth sensation from tannins and bitter berries? A: Astringent
Q: The chemical prefix glyco refers to what common desirable commodity? A: Sugar
Q: What public service ceased in India in July 2013, having declined from a peak of 45,000 service points in the 1980s? A: Telegram
Q: Coach, Hex cap, Lag, and Machine are types of what? A: Screws
Q: In what modern country substantially were the Hittite people? A: Turkey
Q: A pipistrelle is a type of? A: Bat
Q: What army rank (English/US/etc) equates to the naval Lieutenant Commander? A: Major
Q: Millefiore is a highly detailed and colourful decorative art of what material? A: Glass
Q: The site/name of which Napoleonic victory gave its name to a chicken/veal dish served with tomato, egg and crayfish? A: Marengo
Q: A season in which woodland trees produce extraordinarily big volumes of fruit/nuts/seeds is called a '(What?) Year'? A: Mast
Q: Campylobacter bacteria is commonly associated with? A: Food poisoning
Q: What 'First' was French (1792-1804), Austrian (1919-34), Portuguese (1910-26) and Roman c.508BC? A: Republic
Q: What is the common name of the frottoir percusssion instrument (from Cajun French 'frotter', rub)? A: Washboard
Q: Satellite is a computer notebook/tablet model brand of which corporation? A: Toshiba
Q: Elisabeth Beresford devised what fancifully famous litter recycling franchise in 1968? A: The Wombles
Q: In 2013 Birmingham UK opened Europe's biggest? A: Public library
Q: Meccanica Verghera prefixes which famous motorcycle maker's name? A: Agusta
Q: The Cadbury Report of 1992 established the first major code for what regulatory aspect of business/economics? A: Corporate Governance
Q: Tony Abbott became leader of which country in 2013? A: Australia
Q: What is the trade-related pseudonym of the German-Finnish internet entrepreneur and founder of Megaupload, sought early 2000-2010s by US authorities in relation to filesharing and copyright charges? A: Kim Dotcom
Q: In the modern early 2000s Barclays Bank logo which two letters are joined? A: LA
Q: Which European city failed in 2013 for the third time in succession to win its bid to host the Olympic Games? A: Madrid
Q: What three-letter word prefixes these words to create four new words? A: Par
Q: What resin is secreted by India's female Kerria lacca insect, used in old 78rpm records and a cosmetic nail treatment? A: Shellac
Q: Which corporation acquired Nokia in 2013? A: Microsoft
Q: A 'Passion Play' is a dramatic work about whose life? A: Jesus Christ
Q: Gemini Force One is a 21st century extension of what secretive organization? A: Thunderbirds
Q: In which city are the 11sqkm Nazi party rally grounds and buildings which hosted Hitler's vast gatherings 1933-38? A: Nuremberg
Q: The Gear is a 2013 smart-wristwatch product innovation of which corporation? A: Samsung
Q: In the early 2010s which country was judged to have the world's biggest oil reserves given the viability of the Orinoco River Belt heavy crude deposits? A: Venezuela
Q: In music the term descant (or discant) normally refers to a melody or instrument in what range? A: High
Q: An oligarchy describes a leadership group comprising people who are? A: Few
Q: What tool has a grind, spine, fuller and ricasso? A: Knife
Q: Obsidian is a form of? A: Rock
Q: The German surname Müller refers to what occupation? A: Miller
Q: What shape is a sea urchin? A: Sphere
Q: What is the traditional English word best describing Gnocchi in Italian cuisine? A: Dumplings
Q: The music genre 'Musique d'Ameublement' originated by Erik Satie in 1917 is commonly called '(What?) music' in English? A: Furniture
Q: Telltale, Mainsheet, Crosstree, Shroud and Forestay are parts of what? A: Yacht
Q: Which Spanish corporation bought the UK O2 phone corporation in 2005? A: Telefónica
Q: What is a rock containing a mineral/element, and is also a sub-unit of Scandinavian currencies? A: Ore
Q: What is the common name of the lighter/fuel gas, formula C4H10? A: Butane
Q: What sort of artworks are the Cloth of St Gereon, Hunt of the Unicorn, Apocalypse, Wawel, and New World? A: Tapestries
Q: The European rebec/rebeck, Arabic rebab/rebeb, and Cretan lyra, are old instruments played with? A: Bow
Q: The '(What number-th?) Amendment' refers to US legal or informal refusal to answer a self-incriminating/awkward question? A: Fifth
Q: What sort of flooring meant in French 'small enclosed space'? A: Parquet
Q: Which sea, with ports Venice and Split, is the northernmost part of the Mediterranean Sea? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: Greave, Cuisset, Tasset, Paulron, and Visor are parts of what sort of workwear suits? A: Armour
Q: NASA's Voyager I probe, leaving our solar system 12 billion miles from Earth in September 2013, contains a voice message from which US president, in office at its launch? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: Name the author of the British children's TV animated series The Herbs, and Paddington book series? A: Michael Bond
Q: The word 'idea' derives from Greek meaning the sense to? A: See
Q: Which country first bred Doberman Pinscher dogs? A: Germany
Q: A litany originally referred to a repetitious series of communications in? A: Church
Q: Name the generally synthesized music genre pioneered by Brian Eno in the 1970s? A: Ambient
Q: What acronymic internet alternative to traditional university campus learning was substantially extended in the UK in 2013? A: MOOCs
Q: From Latin meaning 'stake', what is the hinged or pivoted catch preventing reverse motion of a ratchet wheel? A: Pawl
Q: What traditional strong ceramic material is named ultimately from a pig? A: Porcelain
Q: What does the Greek prefix 'iso' mean? A: Equal
Q: How many curves characterize a Cupid's Bow? A: Two
Q: The mythological Phoenix bird originally and essentially symbolized? A: Rebirth
Q: What part of the human body contains bone-forms called Phalange, Cuneiform, Talus and Calcaneus? A: Foot
Q: The Malayalam language is from, and still used by over 30 million people in? A: India
Q: Copra is the dried white meat or flesh of what? A: Coconut
Q: What does the internet top level domain '.cat' represent? A: Catalan
Q: What term refers to a traditional alternative to electronic or digital technology, and separately to something which corresponds to another? A: Analogue
Q: Which country borders Finland, Kazakhstan, and Mongolia? A: Russia
Q: What is the fourth root of 625 (i.e., what number multiplied by itself four times is 625)? A: 5
Q: What analytical field is traditionally called 'the dismal science'? A: Economics
Q: The devastating water-borne disease Schistosomiasis, or Snail Fever, is more commonly called what? A: Bilharzia
Q: A burgh in Scotland (as in Edinburgh) originally meant a? A: Corporate entity
Q: What French term refers to the standing on 'tip-toes' position in ballet? A: Pointe
Q: What was abolished in the British Empire in 1833, the French Colonies in 1848, and the USA in 1865? A: Slavery
Q: Sassafras, a traditional aromatic ingredient of perfume and medicine, is a? A: Tree
Q: What two-verb expression refers to a formal notification to stop an activity, prior to legal action? A: Cease and Desist
Q: Imperative, perfect, pluperfect, perfect, and infinitive are types of? A: Verbs
Q: What popular spirit drink brand includes a bat in its logo? A: Bacardi
Q: The 'Tube' in the website name YouTube also refers informally to what traditional display technology, abbreviated to CRT? A: Cathode Ray Tube
Q: The development of what sort of pumping engine in 1785 gave rise to the description 'draught/draft' for its pumped product? A: Beer
Q: What business model name derives from Old French 'free' and a late-Middle Ages English grant of legal immunity? A: Franchise/Franchising
Q: What is a PC's Alt key traditionally called on a MacIntosh computer? A: Option
Q: What profession is shared by Joseph Stiglitz, Milton Friedman, Ken Galbraith, and Janet Yellen? A: Economist
Q: What became known in the 1800s as 'the gay science'? A: Poetry
Q: The popular UK 2010s acronymic 'Towie' fashion/lifestyle derives from what? A: The Only Way Is Essex
Q: What is the correct representation of the burger chain brand? A: McDonald's
Q: Monandry refers to having at any one time only one? A: Husband
Q: Which country is officially named Bharat (and many similar cultural variations), eponymously based its ancient legendary emperor? A: India
Q: Which country borders Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia and Chile? A: Peru
Q: The Pascal (Pa) is a unit of measurement of what? A: Pressure
Q: What does the 'Waffen' mean in the World War II German 'Waffen SS'? A: Armed
Q: Stereo (as in stereophonic, stereogram, etc) originally meant in Greek? A: Solid
Q: The word Tsar derives for which earlier famous leadership name and title? A: Caesar
Q: What two-word term refers to a coastal tide of little movement, especially when turning from low to high? A: Slack water
Q: What must an earthly spacecraft exit for its travel to be interstellar? A: The Solar System
Q: Name the (founding) nationality of the 2010s women's rights group Femen, bare-breasted ambushers of Vladimir Putin and Parish Fashion Week, etc? A: Ukraine
Q: The two hugely popular triangular and barrel-shaped logos of the mid 1900s UK brewery industry were which colour/color? A: Red
Q: "According to the popular metaphorical expression, ""Revenge is a dish best served (what?)""?" A: Cold
Q: Which type of creature can reputedly uniquely disguise itself as at least fifteen different species in defensive camouflage? A: Octopus
Q: What is the square root of 529? A: 23
Q: Bushmills, Jameson, Tullamore Dew, and Writers Tears are brands of what nation's what (two-word answer required)? A: Irish Whiskey
Q: What creature appears in the coat of arms of Berlin? A: Bear
Q: A dosimeter measures human absorption of? A: Ionizing Radiation
Q: The Coca-Cola corporation launched its Sprite drink in 1961 to compete with which similarly famous earlier product? A: 7 Up
Q: The medical term sclerosis refers to the abnormal (what?) of body tissue? A: Hardening
Q: From ancient Greek 'all gods' what word refers to (a temple for) the collective dieties of a religion, and metaphorically to the leaders of a field? A: Pantheon
Q: Originating in India, paneer (or panir/chhena/chhana) is a type of? A: Cheese
Q: What plant provides the raw material for linen? A: Flax
Q: Who retained a weakness where held and dipped by his mother into the river Styx to make him immortal? A: Achilles
Q: Pele is which nation's goddess of volcanoes? A: Hawaii
Q: Into which body of water does the river Nile empty? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Which colour/color is generally considered between violet and green in the optical spectrum? A: Blue
Q: Which organ of the human body comprises the dermis and epidermis? A: Skin
Q: In 2013 which nation became the first in Europe to recognize indeterminate gender (neither male nor female) in official registration/records? A: Germany
Q: Developed in 1941, the Nickel-Strunz classification scheme categorizes? A: Minerals
Q: The flower buds of the Flinders rose (Capparis spinosa), pickled for culinary seasoning/garnish, are more commonly called what? A: Capers
Q: In Spanish-speaking nations a hacienda is a big what? A: Estate
Q: Which symbol is derived from Greek meaning 'small star'? A: Asterisk
Q: What common three-letter word prefixes the following to make six different words? A: For
Q: The (International Standards Organization) ISO 4217, within which TRY refers to Turkey, provides designations for international? A: Currencies
Q: The drinks Sprite and 7 Up traditionally comprise which two-fruit combination? A: Lemon-Lime
Q: Italian physicist Alessandro Volta (1745-1827) is considered to be the inventor of the electric? A: Battery
Q: What was the Twix chocolate bar called in mainland Europe pre-1991 (Scandinavia pre-2000)? A: Raider
Q: What is the most heavily populated river basin in the world? A: The Ganges
Q: What sort of alcoholic drink is made from the blue agave plant? A: Tequila
Q: The word 'Aloha', a friendly greeting, is originally from what Island's language? A: Hawaii
Q: Established in 1802 the 'Legion of Honour' (UK-English translation) is the highest civil or military award given in which nation? A: France
Q: A butterfly has how many legs? A: Six
Q: Amygdaloid refers to the shape of what nut? A: Almond
Q: How many full years elapsed between the start of the year 17BC, and the start of the year 17AD? A: 33
Q: German-British businessman Hans Snook founded which phone company in 1994? A: Orange
Q: The hurdy gurdy is what sort of instrument? A: Stringed
Q: What is the connection between the £ sterling sign and astrology? A: Libra
Q: The Philippines comprises how many islands? A: 7,107
Q: What was the Nintendo corporation's first main product line? A: Playing cards
Q: The 'Turing test' assesses whether a computer possesses what characteristic? A: Human
Q: What major group of organisms possess bodily features called operculum, caudal peduncle, and photophores? A: Fish
Q: Super, Magic, Brønsted and Lewis are prefixes for chemical substance? A: Acid
Q: Which capital city is located at 64°08'N 21°56'W? A: Reykjavík
Q: The highest paved road in the world, the 1,300km Karakoram Highway, connects which two nations? A: China-Pakistan
Q: Artichoke is a variety of? A: Thistle
Q: The term 'ignition' derives from which archaic 'element'? A: Fire
Q: In Greek mythology when Pandora opened her box (actually jar), all the evil spirits escaped, and only Elpis, goddess of (what?) remained? A: Hope
Q: The children's story/TV character Noddy was created in 1949 by which English author? A: Enid Blyton
Q: Which best-selling 2008/9 book, whose concepts were adopted by political leaders, was written by Thaler and Sunstein? A: Nudge
Q: What mammalian hormone is associated with birthing, milk ejection, and the refractory period? A: Oxytocin
Q: The ancient Greek term/goddess 'Sophrosyne' represents? A: Moderation
Q: The Latin term 'requiescat in pace' equates to what common English phrase? A: Rest in peace
Q: What date is St Stephen's Day? A: 26th December
Q: The song White Christmas was first performed in which 1942 film? A: Holiday Inn
Q: London's Trafalgar Square Christmas tree is traditionally given by which country? A: Norway
Q: Which Christmas carol includes the lyrics '...To save us all from Satan's power, when we were gone astray..'? A: God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen
Q: The character Jack Skellington appears in which 1993 Tim Burton film? A: The Nightmare before Christmas
Q: In the inspirational 1946 film, It's a Wonderful Life, what's the name of George Bailey's guardian angel? A: Clarence
Q: What is New Year's Eve called in Scotland? A: Hogmanay
Q: What Christmas item was invented by London baker and wedding-cake specialist Tom Smith in 1847? A: Christmas cracker
Q: Who wrote How the Grinch Stole Christmas? A: Dr Seuss
Q: From which country does the poinsettia plant originate? A: Mexico
Q: Who is officially credited as the author of Auld Lang Syne? A: Robert Burns
Q: What is the name of the cake traditionally eaten in Italy at Christmas? A: Panettone
Q: India mines/produces 60% of the world's (what mineral?), used in hi-tech industries for its properties of insulation, transparency, and machining tolerance? A: Mica
Q: Dempo, Churchill Brothers, and Salgaocar are famous successful Indian what? A: Football clubs
Q: The Indian endangered species Platanista gangetica gangetica is a? A: River dolphin
Q: Based in Mumbai, abbreviated to RBI, what is India's central banking institution and guardian of the currency? A: Reserve Bank of India
Q: The oldest Sanskrit literature and Hindu scriptures are called what, meaning 'knowledge' in Sanskrit? A: Vedas
Q: Dainik Jagran is (at 2014) India's, and perhaps the world's, most popular? A: Newspaper
Q: Name the Indian corporation joint-venture partner in India's Virgin Mobile and Starbucks businesses? A: Tata
Q: The state-owned corporation re-branded simply 'Indian' (2005-11) was a major operator in which sector? A: Airline
Q: What is India's country internet TLD (top level domain)? A: .in
Q: Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are the two what of India? A: Houses of Parliament
Q: The Indian city of Amritsar (also called Rāmdāspur and Ambarsar) is a main border crossing point to which other nation? A: Pakistan
Q: The first prime minister of India, regarded as architect of the modern Indian state, was Jawaharlal (Who?) A: Nehru
Q: India became independent (of British colonial rule) in? A: 1947
Q: Sandeep Singh is a famously successful player and ex-national team captain in which sport, in which India traditionally excels? A: Hockey
Q: Waheguru is the common term for God in which Indian religion? A: Sikhism
Q: Prasar Bharati (at 2014) is India's major? A: Public service broadcaster
Q: What commercial organization governed India from 1612-1858 before it became a British colony? A: British East India Company
Q: What is India's international telephone dialling code? A: 91
Q: The partition of India, creating an independent India and Pakistan, was called the (Who?) Plan, after the last Viceroy of India, later assassinated by the IRA in 1979? A: Mountbatten
Q: The Harmandir Sahib, the Sikh spiritual/cultural centre, is known popularly in western media as what? A: Golden Temple
Q: What historical Indian figure is fondly called Bapu? A: Mahatma Gandhi
Q: Which desert's edge is found at Nigeria's northernmost borderland? A: Sahara
Q: Enugu, Kano Pillars, Heartland, and Lobi Stars are famous Nigerian? A: Football clubs
Q: The Punch, Thisday, and Nigerian Tribune are long-standing popular Nigerian what? A: Newspapers
Q: Galaxy is Nigeria's first commercial/private (and remains in the 2000s a leading)? A: TV station
Q: Bonny light, Forcados, Qua Ibo, and Brass River are types of what major Nigerian export commodity? A: Crude oil
Q: The vast geographical feature called 'Chad' which forms a border between Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon and Niger, is a? A: Lake
Q: Nigeria's international telephone country code is? A: 234
Q: Name the independent state which warred unsuccessfully for independence within and against Nigeria (1967-1970), resulting in vast-scale casualties and famine? A: Biafra
Q: At 12,000 years old, the Nok of Nigeria is West Africa's oldest known? A: Civilization
Q: The national animal emblem of Nigeria is an? A: Eagle
Q: Nigeria is a major (until 1934 the world's largest) producer of what commodity from the Elaeis guineensis plant, used in foods, cooking and soap products? A: Palm oil
Q: Nigeria's 14th and current (at 2014) presidential head of state is (What optimistic expression?) Jonathan? A: Goodluck
Q: Nigeria's governmental constitution is chiefly based on that of the? A: USA
Q: The dominant 14-18th century Oyo Empire of Nigeria was noted for the organizational abilities of the Yoruba people and what feature of its powerful army? A: Cavalry
Q: Nigeria's internet country top level domain is? A: .ng
Q: 'Nollywood', Nigeria's movie industry, is ranked what position globally (by number of productions, at the 2010s)? A: 2nd
Q: The Third Mainland (What?) in Lagos is (at the 2010s) Africa's longest? A: Bridge
Q: Nigerian Aliko Dangote is (at 2014) Africa's foremost? A: Businessman
Q: What is Mexico's official name (in English)? A: United Mexican States
Q: Mexico is dissected by the? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: In terms of public footfall, Benito Juárez in Mexico City is Latin America's 2nd busiest? A: Airport
Q: Alejandro Amaya, Carlos Arruza, Jaime Bravo and Carmelo Torres are famous Mexican? A: Bullfighters
Q: The Mexican War of Independence 1810-1821 ended colonial rule by which nation, since 1521? A: Spain
Q: Bolsa Mexicana de Valores is the Mexican? A: Stock exchange
Q: Name the Mexican founder of the vast corporation Grupo Carso, and the world's richest man 2010-13? A: Carlos Slim
Q: What has uniquely happened twice at Estadio Azteca in Mexico City (1970 and 1986)? A: World Cup Final
Q: The highly regarded Mexican organization UNAM, and its popular website unam.mx, is a? A: University
Q: The traditional popular Mexican event/skill Jaripeo involves what creature? A: Bull
Q: Meaning 'conquerors' what name was given to the 16th century soldiers and pioneers who invaded Mexico? A: Conquistadors
Q: Comprising 100 centavos, and derived from 'gold/silver weights' what is the currency of Mexico? A: Peso
Q: What iconic Mexican item is named from the translation of 'shade maker'? A: Sombrero
Q: What disease, introduced by invading forces, killed millions of indigenous Mexican people in the early 1500s? A: Smallpox
Q: Which small dog breed originated in Mexico and is named after a central northern state? A: Chihuahua
Q: What two-word name given to Mexico's mountain ranges means 'Mother Mountains'? A: Sierra Madre
Q: Pumas, Tigres, Jaguares, Xolos, and Chivas are popular Mexican what? A: Football clubs
Q: What is the international telephone dialling code for Mexico? A: 52
Q: The official national sport of Mexico, the charreada (or charrería), involves? A: Horse-riding
Q: The drink Tequila is named after a Mexican? A: Town
Q: In Mexico how many cheek kisses are customary in greetings between women friends, or a woman and man? A: One
Q: Indonesia's name derives from Greek 'indos' for India, and 'nesos' meaning? A: Island
Q: Garuda Indonesia is the country's official national? A: Airline
Q: What 'dragon' is the world's largest lizard, named after its unique Indonesian island habitat? A: Komodo
Q: Indonesia is dissected by the? A: Equator
Q: Indonesia's bad-smelling Rafflesia Arnoldii is the world's largest (what?), and a national emblem? A: Flower
Q: Indonesia's governing constitution since independence is a? A: Presidential Democracy
Q: What is Indonesia's 'Sang Saka Merah-Putih' (The Sacred Red-and-White)? A: Flag
Q: Indonesia has the world's largest area of what vegetation? A: Mangrove
Q: Indonesia's international telephone country code is? A: 62
Q: Which nation occupied most of modern Indonesia during the 2nd World War, 1942-45, effectively ending colonial rule? Germany; China; Japan; or USA? A: Japan
Q: Home to most of Indonesia's Hindu minority, what tourist haven is Indonesia's smallest province? A: Bali
Q: Goreng, Bakar, Tumis, Rebus, and Kukus are major Indonesian? A: Cooking styles
Q: The popular Indonesian sport Pencak Silat is a form of? A: Martial Arts
Q: Indonesia has the world's (what ranking?) biggest national population? A: 4th
Q: The vast majority of Indonesian people adhere to what religion? A: Islam
Q: Bandung, Tangerang, Palembang, Semarang and Serang are popular Indonesian? A: Cities
Q: Gamelan is a major Indonesian style of? A: Music
Q: Representing about 100 million people and 40% of the population, which is the largest ethnic group of Indonesia? A: Javanese
Q: Indonesia shares which island with Brunei and Malaysia? A: Borneo
Q: Kelut and Merapi are among famous Indonesian (what?) in the 'Circum-Pacific Belt' or 'Ring of Fire'? A: Volcanoes
Q: According to biblical tradition what came to rest on the Mountains of Ararat, now in eastern Turkey? A: Noah's Ark
Q: Recep Erdoğan, Abdullah Gül, Bülent Ecevit, and Turgut Özal are notable Turkish? A: Prime Ministers
Q: 'Magnificent Century' is among what hugely popular Turkish export to Arab and Balkan regions in the 2000s? A: TV Drama
Q: The letters C and S in the Turkish alphabet feature which diacritical mark? A: Cedilla
Q: "In Turkish language/custom ""teşekkür ederim"" and ""sağ olun"" mean?" A: Thank you
Q: Equating broadly to Asia Minor/Turkey what is the old term for this region, from ancient Greek meaning 'sunrise' and 'east'? A: Anatolia
Q: Turkey's international vehicle registration code (typically shown on vehicle registration plates) is? A: TR
Q: Kemalism, modern Turkey's foundational six-principled socio-political philosophy, is also called the Six? A: Arrows
Q: Established in 1923, Cumhuriyet Halk Partisi, is Turkey's oldest? A: Political party
Q: Invented by Haci Bekir Effendi at his Istanbul shop in 1777 what is the globally consumed 'lokum' more famously called? A: Turkish delight
Q: In 1993 the Turkish economist and academic Tansu Penbe Çiller became the country's first? A: Female Prime Minister
Q: What is modern Turkey's capital city? A: Ankara
Q: Name Turkey's major 'Istanbul (Who?) Airport' after the founder and first president of the Republic of Turkey? A: Atatürk
Q: A Turkish 'hammam', whose name derives from Arabic hamma, heat, is known in 'western' cultures alternatively as a Turkish what? A: Bath
Q: Eastern Thrace refers to which part of Turkey? A: European
Q: The famous medieval stone landmark in Turkey's largest city is the 'Galata (What?)'? A: Tower
Q: Galatasaray, Fenerbahçe, Beşiktaş and Trabzonspor are famous Turkish? A: Football clubs
Q: Who are Turkey's 2nd largest ethnic people and about 18% of the population? A: Kurds
Q: Turkey's international telephone calling code is? A: 90
Q: Comprising 100 Kuruş, what is Turkey's currency, first minted in the early 1400s as Ottoman money? A: Lira
Q: The turkey bird, named mistakenly after the country Turkey, originated in? A: Mexico
Q: A sudden life-changing revelation, derived from St Paul's (Saul's) biblical mid-journey vision of God, is called the Road to (Where?)? A: Damascus
Q: To celebrate extravagantly (usually loudly and drunkenly) in town/city bars, clubs, etc., is called to 'Paint the town (What?)'? A: Red
Q: An eccentric or crazy person is informally referred to as having '(What?) in the belfry'? A: Bats
Q: Derived from Samuel Coleridge's 1798 'Rime of the Ancient Mariner' what is someone said to carry around his/her neck as a heavy guilt or liability? A: Albatross
Q: Which nationality combines with 'auction', 'courage' and 'uncle' in referring to alternative/artificial versions? A: Dutch
Q: A 46-year-old British woman made the news in 2014 when in Croatia she was married to her? A: Dog
Q: VK (VKontakte), QZone, Orkut, and XING are (at 2014) international competitors of? A: Facebook
Q: Which city in Brazil has (early-2000s) the longest beach garden in the world, the busiest container port in Latin America, and Pele's football club? A: Santos
Q: An enligtening paradoxical anecdote with no solution, used in Zen Buddhism, illustrating shortcomings of logical reasoning is a? A: Koan
Q: The region of Baltistan (also called Baltiyul) in the Karakoram mountains, south of K2, the world's second highest mountain, is in? A: Pakistan
Q: What AA Milne children's book character is used as a metaphor in referring to someone who is pessimistic and gloomy? A: Eeyore
Q: What sort of snake is named after a huge serpent killed by Apollo? A: Python
Q: Which modern popular low-shedding canine portmanteau crossbreed was popularized in the late 1980s for its low-allergen qualities by Australia's Royal Guide Dog Association? A: Labradoodle
Q: Huqiu, Tianchi, Pouchong, Longjing and Songluo are Chinese? A: Teas
Q: The Koa tree (Acacia Koa) is native and popular in which island group? A: Hawaii
Q: 24 Sussex Drive, and Harrington Lake in Gatineau Park are the official prime ministerial residences of which nation? A: Canada
Q: Which modern-day item of clothing was worn at and named after the 1853-56 Crimean War battle/town, part of Sevastopol since 1957? A: Balaclava
Q: The word gladiator derives from the Latin/Roman word for? A: Sword
Q: According to a study of international Wikipedia articles who did Massachusetts Institute of Technology judge the most famous person of all time (at 2014)? A: Aristotle
Q: Clarence Darrow (1857-1938), fictionalized by Tracey, Spacey, and Fonda among others, was a famous American libertarian and? A: Lawyer
Q: Badain Jaran, Gobi, Lop, and Taklamakan are major Chinese what? A: Deserts
Q: Memphis, in Tennessee, USA, was named in 1819 after the ancient capital city of which modern day nation? A: Egypt
Q: The F1 function key produces what in most computer systems? A: Help
Q: Titicaca is the largest lake in? A: South America
Q: A sequin originally (in Arabic, sikka, and later Italian zecca) referred to the production of? A: Coins
Q: The word dessert, a sweet pudding, derives from French (desservir) meaning to? A: Clear the table
Q: The 'Sandman' character in north European folklore, popularized/originated by Hans Christian Andersen, is said to help children? A: Sleep
Q: Gharara and kameez are a common combination of (What?) in the Indian sub-continent? A: Clothing
Q: A Fathometer is an old genericized trademark for an instrument which measures? A: Water depth
Q: According to a 2014 Time Magazine report what 'fingered' chocolate confectionery bar became the first to be sold in every market of the world? A: KitKat
Q: The silk thread of a silkworm cocoon can be up to how many meteres long? A: 900
Q: The Weber and Tesla (standard international) measurement units apply to? A: Magnetism
Q: The typical maximum permissable velocity of a paintball pellet is how many feet per second? A: 300
Q: Which real music-related town has according to legend hosted King Arthur and Guinevere in death, Lancelot in penance, the Holy Grail in hiding? A: Glastonbury
Q: What is the the sum of ten consecutive prime numbers starting with 13? A: 300
Q: Yahrzeit is a (what?) in Jewish culture? A: Anniversary
Q: What religion is represented by the 'Om' symbol (ॐ and bigger below)? A: Hinduism
Q: The highest recorded bird strike by an aircraft is a? A: Vulture
Q: The old English words 'erst' and 'erstwhile' mean? A: Past
Q: The term pannier (e.g., motorbike side-box) derives from what sort of basket? A: Bread
Q: Hawaiian, Strombolian, Peléan, Phreatomagmatic and Submarine are types of? A: Volcanic eruptions
Q: According to which religion did the prophets Nephi and Lehi lead people from Jerusalem across the sea to the Americas around 600BC? A: Mormonism
Q: Which US office equipment corporation renamed itself (1961) after its branded photocopying technology, from Greek meaning 'dry'? A: Xerox
Q: A normal human eye can distinguish approximately how many different colours/colors? A: 10 million
Q: Nociceptive, Neuropathic, Phantom, Psychogenic, and Incident are types of what? A: Pain
Q: In psychology the (positive) 'Pygmalion effect' and opposite (negative) 'Golem effect' influence people by? A: Expectation
Q: The Sola plant (Aeschynomene aspera) from India/S Asia is used to make what famous headwear? A: Pith helmet
Q: The informal German military term 'sitzkrieg' refers to what feature of war? A: Pause
Q: What internet vulnerability 'bug' was announced (in April 2014) to have existed in 17% of the world's web servers since end-2011? A: Heartbleed
Q: The society-persuasion theory adopted by US and UK governments based on the 2008 Thaler & Sunstein book of the same name is called? A: Nudge
Q: What is the technical genus category of lemons, oranges, limes? A: Citrus
Q: 'Simnel' refers to a traditional Easter (what?), originating in medieval England? A: Cake
Q: A codicil is a supplementary text which alters what sort of legal document? A: Will
Q: What word has noun/verb meanings for an island, a promontory, wine, organic soil, thinking, and a fabric used in bookbinding? A: Mull
Q: A fourteen year ban (for mental health reasons) on what was lifted, experimentally, by China in 2014? A: Gaming consoles
Q: Popular in Indian subcontinental cuisine, gram flour is made from? A: Chickpeas
Q: The official logos for organic product certification in the EU, Japan, Australia and Canada all feature a? A: Leaf
Q: German physician Franz Mesmer's (1734-1815) 'animal magnetism' theory is considered foundational in the development of? A: Hypnosis
Q: What original Mrs Beeton sandwich filling did the Royal Society of Chemistry propose in 2014 as the most economically enjoyable? A: Toast
Q: Derived from ecclesiastical Latin, the term genuflexion/genuflection refers to bending which part of the body? A: Knee
Q: 'The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street' is a nickname for? A: The Bank of England
Q: What popular East Asian food means 'bean curdled'? A: Tofu
Q: How many 'states' (variations) are possible in a single 7-segment electronic/digital numeral display (as used in calculators, etc)? A: 128
Q: What form of breadcrumbed fried food, often containing mashed potato, is named from French 'to crunch'? A: Croquette
Q: Name the controversial arm-gesture associated with French-Cameroonian comedian Dieudonne M'bala M'bala? A: Quenelle
Q: Tarja Halonen, Martti Ahtisaari, and Mauno Koivisto have been presidents of Suomi - known in western language as? A: Finland
Q: Where in 2014 became the last European territory to decriminalize sex between men? A: Northern Cyprus
Q: Chinese technology entrepreneur Jack Ma founded which vast internet corporation, which (in the 2010s) handles c.80% of China's online shopping? A: Alibaba
Q: Colombian Gabriel Garcia Marquez (1927-2014) and Chilean Pablo Neruda (1904-73) are famous South American? A: Writers
Q: DNA analysis of a 7,000 year-old cave-dwelling human skeleton from north Spain revealed what surprising genetic feature? A: Blue eyes
Q: What Terry Nation concept was produced by scientist Davros from the indigenous Kaleds of the planet Skaro? A: Daleks
Q: What's the western name of the least densely populated country in the world, (national language 'Kalaallit Nunaat'), with capital city Nuuk? A: Greenland
Q: Stadium, French's, Händlmaier, and Maille make what, commonly from the Sinapis alba and Brassica juncea plants? A: Mustard
Q: The creamy cherimoya/chirimoya fruit with a soft cactus-like skin is also known as the '(what?) apple'? A: Custard
Q: The ancient Greek portmanteau word 'necropolis' refers to? A: Cemetery
Q: Anaximander (c.600-550BC), Tabula Rogeriana (1154), Waldseemüller (1507) and Mercator (1569) are notable? A: World maps
Q: Which major African institution has the website www.cbn.gov.ng? A: Central Bank of Nigeria
Q: In which competitive activity did the WBF strip its 2013 Bali World Championship from two German doctors for coded coughing? A: Bridge
Q: Everlast, Winning, and Grant are famous equipment brands for? A: Boxing
Q: What medieval defensive feature is named from the French for sliding door? A: Portcullis
Q: Agulhas, Kuroshio, Benguela, Canary and Humboldt are? A: Ocean currents
Q: Technically the avocado ('fruit' of the avocado tree) is a? A: Berry
Q: From the Greek root word for a pointed pillar, what is the technical term for the division sign ( ÷ ) ? A: Obelus
Q: Which occupation traditionally used 'walla' (in the US), 'rhubarb' (UK), and 'gaya' (Japan)? A: Actor
Q: The medical vasodilatory compound and recreational drug C5H11ONO is more commonly known as? A: Amyl Nitrite
Q: Crepuscular creatures are mainly active in? A: Twilight
Q: What high quality gravity/capillary-fed implement was traditionally ruby-tipped gold, and is nowadays usually iridium-tipped stainless-steel? A: Fountain pen
Q: The first almanacs, made in Babylon/Iraq c.750BC, originally listed? A: Planetary movements
Q: What common mineral's name (technically silica or SiO2) derives from old Polish-German 'kwardy', meaning 'hard'? A: Quartz
Q: AgustaWestland, Bell, Oboronprom and Sikorsky are notable makers of? A: Helicopters
Q: What invention of the Greenland Inuit is also derogatory slang for an outdoor hobbyist who observes or collects things? A: Anorak
Q: Baroque (a dramatic heavily detailed style of art form) began in? A: 1600s Rome
Q: A thin middle section of a wooden chair-back, particularly old and carved, is called a? A: Splat
Q: Since Roman times wine barrels are most commonly made from? A: Oak
Q: The human body's axilla or oxter is more commonly called the Elbow; Armpit; Upper jaw; or Eyelid? A: Armpit
Q: The Nazi exclamation 'Sieg heil' means? A: Hail victory
Q: What tree and its resin, whose name derives from Greek meaning 'chew', inspired the development of of chewing gum and various industrial sealants? A: Mastic
Q: What word prefixes the following to make four new words? A: Man
Q: What is a fifth of a half? A: A tenth
Q: Pravachol, Lipitor, Mevacor, Altocor, and Zocor are brands of what $multi-billion cholesterol controlling drug, ultimately named after Greek meaning 'causing to stand'? A: Statin
Q: Siena/sienna, ochre and umber are shades of? A: Brown
Q: What human liquid is 99.5% water, and 0.5% electrolytes, mucus, glycoproteins, enzymes, and antibacterial compounds such as IgA and lysozyme? Blood; Sweat; Tears; or Saliva? A: Saliva
Q: 'The Four Humours' ancient concept of personality asserted what 'mood' is produced by phlegm in the body? A: Calmness
Q: The 2010s global TV phenomenon 'Game of Thrones' is based on George Martin's novel series called 'A Song of (What?)'? A: Ice and Fire
Q: Tiffi, Easter Bunny, Bubblegum Troll, Mr Toffee, and The Dragon who bathes at the Lemonade Lake are characters in what? A: Candy Crush
Q: What's a half plus a third? A: Five-sixths
Q: What short word prefixes these words to create five different words? A: I
Q: "What famous newspaper displays the motto ""All the News That's Fit to Print"", and is known as The Gray Lady because of its traditional dominance of copy (words) compared to graphics?" A: The New York Times
Q: The meat substitute product Quorn is made from? A: Fungus
Q: What common item, which most adults would have in their pocket or bag, has a bow, blade, and bittings? A: A key
Q: In chemistry a hypothetical substance whose molecules occupy negligible space and have no interactions is called a? A: Ideal Gas
Q: A fabled medieval torture instrument is a? A: Iron Maiden
Q: What famous suncream is named after a mountain in Switzerland? A: Piz Buin
Q: The hot condiment wasabi is generally from what part of the plant? A: Root
Q: A foundry is specifically involved in what metal process? A: Casting
Q: The Taj Mahal in India was constructed as a? A: Tomb
Q: The most popular 20th-century Indian car and famous taxi, based virtually unchanged from 1958-2014 on a 1950s Morris Oxford, is the? A: Ambassador
Q: Bungo, Mungo, Laura Grubb and Belladonna Took are which leading literary character's ancestors? A: Bilbo Baggins
Q: When testing his sound equipment inventions, including the first ever recording (on phonograph cylinder in 1878), Thomas Edison often recited? A: Mary Had A Little Lamb
Q: Narendra Modi achieved what notable title in May 2014? A: Prime Minister of India
Q: What highly stigmatized human disease is alternatively named after Norwegian physicist GH Armauer Hansen, who in 1873 discovered its causal bacterium? A: Leprosy
Q: What is five-eighths of sixteen? A: Ten
Q: 'Anima sana in corpore sano' (Latin for 'a healthy mind in a healthy body') is significant in which 1949-founded Japanese corporation's branding? A: ASICS
Q: To which major biblical event did the 'burning bush' direct Moses? The Sermon on the Mount; The Ten Commandments; Jesus' birth; or Noah's Ark? A: The Ten Commandments
Q: What two-word slang is an open quarry, secondary glassblowing furnace, dam/reservoir spillway, and a small opening in a wall for anonymous sexual cooperation either side? A: Glory hole
Q: In many Asian/Eastern beliefs 'Naraka' is what? A: Hell
Q: "The obsequious ""ever so 'umble"" money-lender in Charles Dickens' novel David Copperfield, is?" A: Uriah Heep
Q: In 2014, Illinois University research found higher casualty rates from female-named (what?) due to victims' complacency, compared to having higher perceived fear of male names? A: Hurricanes
Q: Originating in Turkish cuisine terminology the 'shish' in a shish kebab refers to? Lamb; Skewer; Spice; or the 'Sizzle' sound? A: Skewer
Q: "Who wrote 'This be the Verse', starting famously ""They f*** you up, your Mum and Dad, They may not mean to, but they do...""?" A: Philip Larkin
Q: Brazil's first ever football match as a national team was in 1914 at Laranjeiras stadium, Rio de Janeiro state, against? A: Exeter City
Q: The UHF wireless technology developed by Eriksson in 1994 for data transfer between devices in close proximity is? A: Bluetooth
Q: What is the '1c Magenta', which (at $20m) became the most expensive man-made object ever in terms of weight to value? A: Postage stamp
Q: A circular partner-swapping ballroom dance, named after a 1700s maritime leader, is the? A: Paul Jones
Q: Originally a French portmanteau word combining a shoe and boot, what means 'wilfully destroy'? A: Sabotage
Q: What is the recurring number when two-thirds is expressed as a decimal? A: 6
Q: Which controversial Swiss sports head, accused of racism, sexism and corruption 1990s-2000s, was once president of the World Society of Friends of Suspenders, which advocated women should not replace stockings and suspenders with pantyhose? A: Sepp Blatter
Q: Bambino is the family trust of which controversial business mogul, subject to criminal proceedings in Germany 2014? A: Bernie Ecclestone
Q: What abbreviated term refers to songs/music used in film, TV, adverts, games etc? A: Sync
Q: What pollen-receiving part of a flower also refers to negative perceptions and also Christian imagery? A: Stigma
Q: Which famous sports-sponsoring organization has a winged hourglass logo, the oldest registered mark of its industry? A: Longines
Q: What word is punningly used to describe serious campers? A: Intense
Q: The word soccer derives from? A: Association
Q: What is not required by the rules of soccer? A: Goal net
Q: What city/club football rules, which spread widely in the late 1800s, introduced heading, corners, throw-ins, changing ends, and the goal crossbar? A: Sheffield
Q: FIFA's 2014 World Cup Finals/Qualifying rules dictate a match squad of how many players? A: 23
Q: In the 2010 World Cup Final, Jo'bulani was the? A: Ball
Q: The minimum rest-period between two games for any team at the 2014 World Cup is how many hours? A: 48
Q: Soccer rules award what after an 'own goal' directly from a throw-in? A: Corner
Q: The headquarters of FIFA are in Brussels; London; Zurich, or Oslo? A: Zurich
Q: Who has made the World Cup footballs since 1970? A: Adidas
Q: The World Cup Qualifiying matches between El Salvador v Honduras in 1969 coincided with what mutual event? A: War
Q: A white ball was first used in a World Cup in? A: 1950
Q: The centre circle of a soccer pitch is used only at kick-offs/re-starts, and in which other game feature? A: Penalty shoot-outs
Q: Soccer has been an Olympic event since? A: 1900
Q: Waterloo, the location of Napoleon's 1815 defeat, is in modern-day? A: Belgium
Q: Name the core specialism of notable Anglo-Danish industrialist Sir Ove Nyquist Arup (1895-1988) and the global (Arup Group) corporation he created? A: Structural engineering
Q: Calabria, flanked by the Tyrrhenian and Ionian Seas, is the southern peninsular of which country? A: Italy
Q: In the 1920s Japanese and Austrian physicians Kyusaku Ogino and Hermann Knaus devised the contraceptive method called popularly? A: Rhythm
Q: What boom caused gross exploitation of native people of Brazil and adjacent nations by European industrialists c.1879-1912? A: Rubber
Q: The artists Monet, Manet, Degas and Cezanne are mainly noted for what style of art? A: Impressionism
Q: Comprising 100 centavos, what is the currency of Brazil? A: Real
Q: What word, derived from Latin meaning to 'pay against the evil of something' refers to expressing disapproval? A: Deprecate
Q: What herb is traditionally associated, besides garlic, with the pickling of a gherkin (US pickle)? A: Dill
Q: Derived from Latin for 'place', what anglicized French word commonly means 'instead' in formal communications? A: Lieu
Q: Which inspirational genius created the landmark film 'Modern Times' and its theme song, 'Smile', released in 1936? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: The traditional generic name of the 1880s bike design which improved the penny-farthing (high-wheel) and basically endures today is the '(What?) bicycle'? A: Safety
Q: What French railway term refers to the bicycle gear system for shifting the chain between sprockets? A: Derailleur
Q: What country produces Flying Pigeon bicycles, at 2010 the most popular mechanical vehicle in history? A: China
Q: What was a bicycle first called (and still today also any human powered wheeled vehicle), a Latin portmanteau of 'speed' and 'foot'? A: Velocipede
Q: A modern 'balance bicycle' is purpose-designed for? A: Children
Q: In 2013 Dutch cyclist Sebastiaan Bowier set a world speed record for a bicycle (unassisted, human powered vehicle) of what mph? 49; 57; 72 or 83? A: 83
Q: A penny-farthing (high-wheel) bicycle is steered by which wheel(s)? A: Front
Q: Slang for an eccentric person, what bicycle part converts reciprocal leg-power into circular wheel motion? A: Crank
Q: The green jersey is worn by the Tour de France's? A: Best sprinter
Q: Who was stripped of his seven Tour de France titles in October 2012 due to doping? A: Lance Armstrong
Q: What French word commonly refers to a bunch or pack of cyclists? A: Peloton
Q: Developed, named (c.1950) and hugely popular in Japan for gambling, what Olympic track cycling event requires riders to follow a motorized bike until the last few hundred metres of free sprint? A: Keirin
Q: Drop, Randonneur, Porteur, Aero and Moustache are types of bicycle what? A: Handlebars
Q: Traditionally when in colour/color, the Samsung logo is? A: Blue
Q: The French medieval term 'jongleur' refers to the trade of? A: Entertainer
Q: A loggia is a room or gallery characterized by the absence of? A: External wall
Q: What is the main organic ingredient of Grappa, the strong Italian alcholic drink? A: Grapes
Q: 'Pinyin', the original and common other Chinese/Japanese name for the tile game Mahjong means? A: Sparrow
Q: Technically 'flash point' refers to the triggering of what aspect of a volatile substance? A: Vaporization
Q: Sitka wood, named after the Alaskan town, is a type of? A: Spruce
Q: What 2001 Disney movie bockbuster is considered the first to successfully achieve CGI fur? A: Monsters, Inc.
Q: The 1st World War Armistice was signed in 'Compagnie Internationale des Wagons Lits 2419', a? A: Railway carriage
Q: 'Interlocution' refers to a person's involvement in? A: Discussion
Q: Created by marine biologist/animator Stephen Hillenburg, Nickelodeon's $8bn grossing and most distributed media property of MTV networks (at mid-2010s)? A: Spongebob Squarepants
Q: What is the cube root of 216? A: 6
Q: Boulevard Périphérique is the famous Paris? A: Ring Road
Q: The brands Daiwa, Drennan, Hardy, and Berkley famously involve? A: Fishing
Q: Gargoyles on buildings traditionally support? A: Guttering
Q: A longhorned grasshopper or bush cricket is also known as a? A: Katydid
Q: A gazetteer offers indexed information mainly oriented by? A: Geography
Q: Cockney rhyming slang 'bottle' traditionally means? A: Bravery
Q: What famous French 1970s-designed anti-ship missile means 'flying fish'? A: Exocet
Q: The 'Acts' book of the Bible is fully titled 'Acts of The (What?)'? A: Apostles
Q: After international electronic surveillance revelations in 2014, German government officials reportedly reverted to using? A: Typewriters
Q: Generally what metalwork process extracts a metal from its ore? A: Smelting
Q: Which country is markedly the largest producer of garlic globally? A: China
Q: Hinnomaki Red, Invicta, Pax and Hairy Amber are types of which Ribes genus fruit? A: Gooseberry
Q: Jam, Wing, Acorn, T, and Hex are types of what? A: Nut
Q: The eminent British economist Richard Layard is noted for pioneering work on? A: Happiness
Q: The Berlin S-Bahn is what sort of system? A: Railway
Q: As at the early 2000s (2000-12 official figures) what country is the world's biggest wine producer? A: France
Q: Suchen, Buscar, Rechercher and Zoeken appear commonly on German, Spanish, French and Dutch language websites, all meaning what? A: Search
Q: The speed of sound in a vacuum is? A: Zero
Q: What parts of the human body are surrounded by protective skin called the eponychium and paronychium? A: Nails
Q: The Ebola disease is named after an African? A: River
Q: A mattock (alternatively called a dibber in some countries) is used mainly for? A: Digging
Q: A negotiating offer that is available for discussion is said to be 'On the (What?)'? A: Table
Q: The adjacent African nations Ivory Coast, Ghana, Togo, and Benin have coastlines facing? A: South
Q: Traditional 'western' breadmaking generally requires flour defined as? A: Strong
Q: Likud, Yesh Atid, and Shas are political parties of which country? A: Israel
Q: The UK government was criticized in 2014 for promoting the euphemistic term 'Mitochondrial transfer' to avoid controversy about genetic modification of? A: Human babies
Q: What technical term refers to documents/money held by a third party while agreement/conditions are fulfilled between two others? A: Escrow
Q: Bright, Burley, and Oriental are leaves used for what? A: Cigarettes
Q: 'Lager' beer is named from German meaning? A: Storehouse
Q: In biochemistry the suffix '-ose' usually denotes what common sort of substance? A: Sugar
Q: The US-originating slang 'wallwart' is used in which connection? A: Electrical
Q: A 'night glow' features in which sort of festival? A: Hot air balloons
Q: Which 1947-originated DeBeers slogan is according to Advertising Age magazine the best advertising slogan of the 20th century (perhaps aided by a 1956 Fleming creation)? A: """A Diamond Is Forever"""
Q: In the English language a 'perfect pangram' contains how many letters? A: 26
Q: The word scourge - 'a cause of suffering' - is metaphorically derived from what instrument of punishment? A: Whip
Q: US engineer/industrialist George Pullman (1831-1897) is eponymously associated with travel by? A: Rail
Q: In card gambling games such as poker, an 'ante' refers to a betting stake which is? A: Compulsory
Q: Acetylsalicylic Acid is better known by what Bayer trademark? A: Aspirin
Q: What literally connects Vikramshila Setu, Rajendra Setu, Mahatma Gandhi Setu and Farakka Barrage? A: The Ganges
Q: Ragú refers originally in Italian to a? A: Meat-based sauce
Q: Name Google's search engine for academic publishing? A: Scholar
Q: Built for the 1980 Summer Olympics, which city boasts the The Izmailovo Hotel (at 2014 the world's largest, comprising 7,500 rooms)? A: Moscow
Q: The European supermarket corporation Netto was founded and remains (at 2014) headquartered in? A: Denmark
Q: Whose logo features two pulling horses and the words 'original riveted'? A: Levi's
Q: Sauerkraut is a type of German? A: Cabbage
Q: The technical term 'Wearing Course' is used in? A: Road surfacing
Q: The word dinosaur is from Greek 'deinos saurus' meaning? A: Terrible lizard
Q: What is a 3D crystal structure in physics and a criss-cross pastry pie top? A: Lattice
Q: The energy possessed by something due to its motion is called? A: Kinetic
Q: Which famous archipelago comprises eight major islands including Maui, Oahu, Kauai, and Molokai? A: Hawaiian Islands
Q: Trypanosomiasis technically refers to what sort of sickness? A: Sleeping
Q: What modern globally recognized symbol was created by British designer Gerald Holtom in 1958, based on the flag semaphore signals for N and D? A: Nuclear Disarmament
Q: Bok Choy (US) or Pak Choi (UK) is a Chinese? A: Cabbage
Q: Meissen and Dresden of Germany, and Spode of England made high-quality? A: Porcelain
Q: A 'lustrum' refers to a period of how many years? A: Five
Q: The Afrikaans word 'pronk' refers to the distinctive arch-backed stiff-legged leap of a? A: Springbok
Q: What is the more common English/Western biblical name of Golgotha, the site of Christ's crucifixion? A: Calvary
Q: The old French term 'eshec mat' is terminology in which game? A: Chess
Q: What English uprising ended with the death of one its leaders Wat Tyler in June 1381? A: The Peasants' Revolt
Q: Which corporation operates the $multi-billion two-sided advertising service branded AdSense and AdWords? A: Google
Q: Psychological tests which ask standardized questions, whose answers are assessed according to fixed measures are called? A: Objective
Q: Al Jazeera means 'The (What?)'? A: Island
Q: Chatsworth House gardener, engineer and greenhouse expert, Joseph Paxton, created which iconic 1851 London building? A: Crystal Palace
Q: What was a originally an ancient Greek post-banquet drinking party, and nowadays refers to a researchers/academic conference? A: Symposium
Q: Brahmanism is an ancient formative religion of? A: Hinduism
Q: Which punningly alliteratively named professor drove the No3 Convert-a-Car in Wacky Races? A: Pat Pending
Q: In 1849 US mechanic Walter Hunt patented what multi-billion-selling and punk rock device? A: Safety pin
Q: Which multi-award-winning 1982s movie is considered to have included the biggest ever crowd of extras? A: Gandhi
Q: What potent plant is called technically Papaver somniferum? A: Opium poppy
Q: Burlap is an old material traditionally used in making? A: Sacks
Q: What community-support focused branch of Christianity grew from the work of brothers John and Charles Wesley and George Whitefield? A: Methodism
Q: In 2014 the EU introduced a maximum 1600watt power rating for? A: Vacuum cleaners
Q: The fin whale, second largest animal after the blue whale, excretes approximately how many litres per day? A: 1,000
Q: Viticulture refers to the cultivation of what fruit? A: Grapes
Q: What ancient seminal Palestinian city is 'house of meat' in Arabic, and 'house of bread' in Hebrew? A: Bethlehem
Q: 'Die Adler', nickname of the German national soccer team, means 'The (What)'? A: Eagles
Q: In the the expression 'whet your appetite', the old word 'whet' technically means? A: Sharpen
Q: In Australian slang, someone called a 'mollydooker' is a? A: Left-handed
Q: During the 1900s, Olivetti, Olympia, Underwood, Smith Corona, and Remington were famous makers of? A: Typewriters
Q: Bosintang/Boshintang (or Gaejangguk) is a Korean soup of declining popularity made chiefly of what meat? A: Dog
Q: Anopheles and Aedes, which indirectly kill millions of people every year, are what? A: Mosquitos
Q: The hull of a seed is its? A: Shell
Q: The Glycaemic Index (GI) refers to? A: Food
Q: Petite Borgeoisie is an Anglicized French term referring to what traditional notion of social demographics class? A: Lower Middle Class
Q: Which spice is named from Hungarian for pepper? A: Paprika
Q: What medieval term for a knights' equestrian tournament is also a fairground ride and an airport mechanism? A: Carousel
Q: Which German rye bread is named, according to many reliable sources, from the original meaning 'Devil's fart'? A: Pumpernickel
Q: What refers to social service focused on an individual's situation/background, and also to certain furniture, especially ornate cabinets? A: Casework
Q: Dart, mushroom, grain, notions, and piping are terms used in what handicraft? A: Sewing
Q: A nuclear reactor which produces more 'fissile' material (i.e., which sustains a chain reaction) than it consumes in fuel is known by what sexual term? A: Breeder
Q: In rugby union, how many yards position is a team penalized for arguing with a referee's decision? A: 10
Q: What typically pluralized instrument is named from Spanish 'chestnut'? A: Castanets
Q: Brimstone is an old word for which chemical element? A: Sulphur
Q: In 2010 which famous pedestrian 'zebra' crossing was the first to be given UK Heritage listed status, normally only given to buildings and monuments? A: Abbey Road
Q: The latin term 'mutatis mutandis' is used when doing what to two basically similar things? A: Comparing
Q: In a musical work the term 'coda' refers to its? A: Ending
Q: A nuclear component which emits radioactivity for an industrial/commercial purpose is called a? A: Source
Q: The cobalt salts of aluminium/aluminum oxide produce what colour/color in ceramics, glass, etc., notably ancient Chinese porcelain? A: Blue
Q: A solenoid, featured in electromagnetic valves and switches of that name, is a? A: Helix
Q: Who painted The Starry Night, Sorrowing Old Man and Self-Portrait Without Beard? A: Vincent Van Gogh
Q: A single significant obstacle is figuratively called 'The Fly in the...'? A: Ointment
Q: An oophorectomy is the removal of one or both of a woman's what? A: Ovaries
Q: To what very common consumer items do the IEC codes R6 and R03 and equivalent ANSI codes AA and AAA refer? A: Batteries
Q: The significant Irish minister Ian Paisley, who died in 2014, was a? A: Protestant
Q: Name the record-breaking $0.5bn development-cost computer game launched to massive publicity in 2014? A: Destiny
Q: A full moon which coincides with its closest proximity to Earth is called a '(What?) moon'? A: Harvest
Q: A mollymawk is an Australian/NZ word for what creature, strongly linked with maritime superstition? A: Albatross
Q: What silver-grey/gray metallic element used in high strength steels has the symbol Mo? A: Molybdenum
Q: Macular refers to which sensory organ? A: Eye
Q: The medieval occupation and derived surname Scullion referred to a basic worker in a? A: Kitchen
Q: The prefix 'meso' usually means? A: Middle
Q: 'Forage' refers to crops that are? A: Animal feed
Q: What term refers to a style of fatalistic or menacing cinema, coined first by French critics in describing US thrillers of the 1940s? A: Film Noir
Q: The 1997 BS and 2005 EN No1836 safety standard applies to? A: Sunglasses
Q: Posset is a late-medieval curdled drink of alchocol and which other liquid? A: Milk
Q: Gurning is a (sometimes competitive) activity involving distortion of? A: One's face
Q: A sepulchre is a (what?), usually made/carved from stone? A: Tomb
Q: "Hilary Mantel's controversial 2014 fictional story is ""The Assassination of (Which controversial leader?)"" ?" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Filibeg is a traditional Scottish word for? A: Kilt
Q: In the binary system of numbers the binary number 10 equates to which conventional number? A: 2
Q: The sulphate/sulfate used as a contrast agent for gastro-intenstinal x-rays contains which metallic element? A: Barium
Q: The Hawaiian Islands are closest longitudinally to whose territory? A: USA
Q: Native to Indonesia, what spice is a flower bud from a tall evergreen tree 'Syzygium aromaticum'? A: Clove
Q: Shellshock, in Bash, was in 2014 described as the most dangerous (what?) since Heartbleed? A: Computer bug
Q: On a 20cm diameter clockface, the tip of the second-hand travels approximately how many kilometres in a year? A: 330
Q: This historical region (1300s-1800s) of Bessarabia is in? A: Eastern Europe
Q: What portmanteau term created in the 1960s is the science of copying or duplicating documents/graphics? A: Reprographics
Q: What Swiss psychologist conceived 'extraversion' and 'introversion', and personality tendencies of intuition, sensing, feeling and thinking? A: Carl Jung
Q: In what discipline was Alex Jesaulenko's 'Mark of the Century'? A: Australian Rules Football
Q: Name IBM's artificial intelligence computer, which answers 'knowledge' questions with startling effectiveness, named after the company's first CEO/chairman (coincidentally the name of a doctor/narrator noted for asking questions of a famous detective)? A: Watson
Q: What's the full name of Sherlock Holmes' companion/narrator? A: Dr John H Watson
Q: Originating in the fictional 'Game of Thrones' and launched internationally in 2014 as a real training program, 'Dothraki' is a? A: Language
Q: A major share-trading mistake, sometimes worth of $millions, is commonly called a '(What?) Error'? A: Fat Finger
Q: What nation, the most sparsely populated of the EU, has nearly 200,000 lakes? A: Finland
Q: Founded 1938 by Lee Byung-chul, Samsung is which country's biggest business (at 2014)? A: South Korea
Q: What sparking wine from Catalonia is traditionally and incorrectly referred to as Spanish Champagne? A: Cava
Q: What famous corporation, having a flying crane logo, is named from Germany's late-medieval defensive commercial federation the Hanseatic League, and word for 'air'? A: Lufthansa
Q: Which famous online brand is a green circle containing three stacked arcs? A: Spotify
Q: What Andalusian city gave its name to a bitter orange used especially in marmalade? A: Seville
Q: What famous headwear and safety harness brand was devised from the original raw materials silk, angora and wool? A: Kangol
Q: Which once war-torn Balkan capital city has a world-leading human DNA analysis laboratory? A: Sarajevo
Q: Georges Bizet devised the word 'toreador' for what opera? A: Carmen
Q: The continent having the highest average elevation is? A: Antartica
Q: What is a remark, act, or chess move seeking advantage, from Italian for trip-up, and leg? A: Gambit
Q: The Dewey Decimal, Universal Decimal, and Bliss Bibliographic classifications are used by? A: Libraries
Q: The Carthage civilization (814-200BC) was based around modern? A: Tunis
Q: What edible weed is named from 'lion's tooth'? A: Dandelion
Q: Disney's Lion King movie/musical is generally said to be based on what Shakespeare play? A: Hamlet
Q: What is the UK's most senior royal palace and official residence of the monarch? A: St James's Palace
Q: The traditional Windows/Mac keyboard shortcut to undo the last operation is Ctrl or Cmd and what key? A: Z
Q: The Gannex brand, popularised by British prime minister Harold Wilson in the 1960s, was a? A: Raincoat
Q: Which fictional family lived at 1313 Mockingbird Lane, Mockingbird Heights, California? A: The Munsters
Q: Name the chemical separation process in which electricity passes through a conducting substance between two electrodes? A: Electrolysis
Q: The highest US military award, the Medal of Honor, is what shape? A: Star
Q: The Drachma was which nation's main currency unit before the Euro in 2002? A: Greece
Q: Episcopal refers to what authority? A: Bishop
Q: An old word for a proverb or saying is a? A: Saw
Q: Historically, malmsey wine came from what nation and its surrounding islands? A: Greece
Q: Pioneering collaborative UK/Poland surgery to repair human spinal cord was demonstrated in 2014 using what uniquely regenerating human nerve cells? A: Olfactory
Q: Equating to Roman goddess Diana, name Apollo's huntress chaste twin sister, also ironically a 600-customer Berlin brothel? A: Artemis
Q: The 1850s 'open-hearth process' was used in producing? A: Steel
Q: Bullace is a thorny shrub with fruit similar to small uncultivated? A: Plum
Q: The parts that enable a guitar to be tuned are called? A: Machines
Q: The Union of Myanmar, capital Rangoon, is traditionally (in the 'west') called what country? A: Burma
Q: What slightly eponymously US discount store brand/corporation was founded by Farmer's son Sebastian Kresge c.1900? A: K-Mart
Q: The Japanese term Ekiden refers to a long race characterized by? A: Relay
Q: Atomic weight is expressed/measured to a standard based on the common isotope (12) of which element? A: Carbon
Q: 'Anchor escapement' refers to controlled rocking mechanical energy release in? A: Clocks
Q: What type of aperitif is named from German 'wormwood', the additive in the original medicinal form? A: Vermouth
Q: Common in Middle East and North Africa, a souq (also souk, shuk, suk, sooq, suq, etc) is a? A: Marketplace
Q: The mainly Australian/NZ rugby term 'five-eighth' refers to a player positioned behind his own? A: Scrum-half
Q: What popular office product/brand did Bette Nesmith Graham (mother of Monkee Mike Nesmith) invent and later sell to Gillette for nearly $50m in 1979? A: Liquid Paper
Q: Ido is the relatively unpopular improved version of what, first devised by Polish physician Ludwik Lazarus Zamenhof (1859-1917)? A: Esperanto
Q: Food in dented cans is less safe/pure than in undented cans, true or false? A: False
Q: The term and tactical use of a 'nightwatchman' arises in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Which 'BRIC' country re-elected female president Dilma Rousseff of the Workers' Party, 2014? A: Brazil
Q: Youku Tudou is (early 2000s) China's most popular? A: Video-sharing website
Q: Yildiz Holding, one of the world's largest confectionery corporations and acquirer of United Biscuits in 2014, is what 'MINT' nationality? A: Turkish
Q: Name the largest pre-Columbian/Hispanic city of South America, in Peru, and also the name of a popular song from Cuba? A: Chan Chan
Q: What whole number is the fourth root of 2,401? A: 7
Q: Which statesman used the Russian maxim 'doveryai, no proveryai' ('trust, but verify') to ease US/USSR negotiations at the end of the cold war? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: Pāramitā, pāramī, or the Ten Perfections, are an aspirational model of which belief system? A: Buddhism
Q: What vocal musical term means literally 'in the style of the church/chapel'? A: A Cappella
Q: Collagen, elastin, keratin, myosin, and lectin are? A: Proteins
Q: Edema (or oedema, or dropsy) refers to body tissue? A: Swelling
Q: The ischium, related to 'sciatic', is the lower part of which human bone? A: Pelvis
Q: Sound reflected back within c.50 milliseconds is technically called what, commonly abbreviated as a sound production effect? A: Reverberation
Q: Glycyrrhizin, from the Glycyrrhiza glabra plant, used in medicine, is more generally known for the distinctive sweet characteristic of what confection, famously produced (among other varieties/sources) in Pontefract, W Yorkshire? A: Liquorice
Q: Name Bette Midler's early-career pianist and co-producer of The Divine Miss M debut album, who became a major star in his own right? A: Barry Manilow
Q: What controversial process uses a 'proppant' with 'slickwater' or gel/foam including additives such as hydrochloric acid, guar gum, radioactive tracers? A: Fracking
Q: Ishmael, the first son of Abraham, based on biblical account refers metaphorically also to a? A: Outcast
Q: The architectural term colonnade refers to a series of what features? A: Columns
Q: The word porous literally refers to what characteristic in a substance? A: Holes
Q: In the longstanding Samsung logo which letter has a missing major part? A: A
Q: Built 1723-25, the famous Spanish Steps are in which capital city? A: Rome
Q: Canon law is rules/regulations according to the authority of the? A: Church
Q: What old Japanese battle cry and emperor greeting means 'ten thousand years of life (to you)'? A: Banzai
Q: The official European hazard symbol of a bold black X in a yellow/orange square indicates that a substance is harmful and? A: Irritant
Q: What is the number 333 in Roman numerals? A: CCCXXXIII
Q: 'Picaboo' was the 2011 launch name of what popular online application, whose logo is based on Ghostface Killah of the Wu-Tang Clan? A: Snapchat
Q: In South Korea a chaebol is a significant family-owned/operated? A: Corporation
Q: The simplest alcohol (CH3OH), 'wood spirits', first produced by burning pine, is technically known as? A: Methanol
Q: The Soma Cube is a classic 3D puzzle comprising how many angular shapes, being all possible combinations of 3 or 4 wholly-joined cube-parts? A: 7
Q: The last Russian monarchy, ended by the 1917 revolution, was the House of? A: Romanov
Q: What means throw and vomit, is a term of endearment, and a radial clamp? A: Chuck
Q: Name Finnish writer Tove Jansson's Hippo-like children's character franchise, originally in Swedish books 1945-93, TV/film and the popular '(What?) World' theme park in Naantali, Finland? A: Moomin
Q: Planchets, flans and blanks are synonyms for pieces of metal used to make? A: Coins
Q: The Coca Cola corporation launched 'Fairlife' in 2014, a 'premiumized' version of? A: Milk
Q: The traditional English exclamation 'Strewth' is an 1800s abbreviated form of what older expression? A: God's truth
Q: The term 'grandee', a high-ranking person, referred originally to noblemen of? A: Iberia
Q: Althaea officinalis, an ancient African medicinal plant and sugar sweet ingredient, is commonly known as (What popular confection)? A: Marshmallow
Q: Under standard conditions, the lightest and least dense of all metallic elements is? A: Lithium
Q: What Italian originating pasta is most popularly consumed in 'elbow' variety in US/Canada? A: Macaroni
Q: Roald Dahl's children's novel Esio Trot features which creature? A: Tortoise
Q: What famous Australian product did Cyril Callister devise in Melbourne, in 1922, partly in response to war-related shortages of the British version? A: Vegemite
Q: A cogwheel icon typically represents what on many websites/apps? A: Settings
Q: Leo Tolstoy's book War and Peace concerns the 1812 invasion of Russia by? A: France
Q: What is the general term for the form of physics concerned with sub-atomic particles, atoms, molecules, and their radiation? A: Quantum
Q: Which whole number is the cube root of 2197? A: 13
Q: Which Japanese corporation produced the first compact electronic calculator, released in 1957? A: Casio
Q: Which fictional small people, in a famous 1939 film and prior LF Baum book series, became in 2007 the largest group represented by a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame? A: The Munchkins
Q: The butternut squash/pumpkin grows directly on a? A: Vine
Q: The medieval profession called a 'bard' equates nowadays to a what? A: Poet
Q: Name Captain Flint's quartermaster in the novel Treasure Island? A: Long John Silver
Q: In which country is the Bay of Pigs? A: Cuba
Q: The Poinsettia plant has which colour/color flowers? A: Yellow
Q: What was Norwegian Thor Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki raft made from, which he sailed from S America to Polynesia in 1947, to demonstrate early Polynesian immigration? A: Balsa
Q: What iconic Louisiana Creole dish, named from a French Provencal word, is based on Spanish paella, typically of meat and vegetables, stock and rice? A: Jambalaya
Q: Name the Sovient Union policy of governmental openness, implemented by Gorbachev from 1985? A: Glasnost
Q: The central blue 'Ashoka Chakra' icon on India's national flag represents a? A: Wheel
Q: The two other angles in a right-angled triangle must always add up to how many degrees? 60; 90; 120; or 180? A: 90
Q: Which 'historical nationality' of Spain is directly north of Portugal? A: Galicia
Q: What onomatopoeic term refers to a 'modern jazz' form popularized in the 1940s by Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie and others? A: Bebop
Q: The variable vast plasma stream of electrons and protons from the Sun is called? A: The Solar Wind
Q: Doggerel is a crude form of what, originating in many cultures in the late middle-ages? A: Poetry
Q: What is a continuous low musical note, annoying monotony, and a controversial flying machine? A: Drone
Q: Whose name was licensed in 2014 for cannabis products, anticipating a market of $10bn? A: Marley
Q: Name the actor who died in 2014, star of The Rockford Files and The Great Escape? A: James Garner
Q: What word differentiates the 1990 FIFA World Cup Final from the 2014 'repeat' in which Germany beat Argentina 1-0? A: West
Q: In what city did a nurse become the first person outside Africa to be infected by Ebola in the 2014 outbreak? A: Madrid
Q: What was Miley Cyrus's award-winning record-breaking 2014 video/hit song, being the thing on which she controversially swung nude? A: Wrecking Ball
Q: "Graffitied and repainted often since 1980, and obliterated in 2014 except from the ironic statement ""Wall is over"", the 'Freedom Wall' in Prague celebrates whose memory?" A: John Lennon
Q: On which planet did NASA's Curiosity rover complete its first year, equal to 687 Earth days, in June 2014? A: Mars
Q: Which city in Russia hosted the XXII Olympic Winter Games? A: Sochi
Q: Name the Rolling Stones' saxophonist and session player who died in 2014? A: Bobby Keys
Q: The mysteriously lost Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in March 2014 was bound from Kuala Lumpur to where? A: Beijing
Q: Charity executives Justin Forsyth and Jonathan Powell attracted 'crony' jibes when their organization gave a controversial 'global legacy award' to whom, their previous boss? A: Tony Blair
Q: Betty Joan Perske, who died in 2014, was better known as which famous film star, from the 1940s-2000s? A: Lauren Bacall
Q: In 2014 Belgium became the first country in the world to legalize what controversial treatment of terminally ill people? A: Euthanasia
Q: According to 2014 market capitalization, Google, Microsoft, Apple and (which oil corporation?) were globally the most valuable companies? A: ExxonMobil
Q: Narendra Modi became prime minister of which country in May 2014? A: India
Q: Wedding plans were announced in 2014 for a 26 year-old Illinois woman and which 80 year-old incarcerated mass murderer? A: Charles Manson
Q: Which famous Portuguese single-named footballer and top scorer of the 1966 World Cup died in 2014? A: Eusébio
Q: Which regional territory experienced the Umbrella Revolution in autumn 2014, being a protracted protest against electoral constraints? A: Hong Kong
Q: Which male artist won most awards at the 2014 Billboard Music Awards? A: Justin Timberlake
Q: In May 2014 the World Health Organization declared an international emergency due to major outbreaks of what nearly-eradicated disease? A: Polio
Q: Which name is shared by the two popes made saints by the Vatican in April 2014? A: John
Q: Which city, previously made famous in 2014, hosted the first Russian F1 Grand Prix for over 100 years? A: Sochi
Q: Buddhist politician and businessman Niwatthamrong Boonsongpaisan briefly, until a military coup in 2014, acted as prime minister of which nation, once known as Siam? A: Thailand
Q: A 2014 cardiology study (Taborsky/ESC) found that wine reduces cardiovascular disease only in people who? A: Exercise
Q: The heavily hyped end-November shopping day of mass brawling for bargains in UK stores in 2014 is called? A: Black Friday
Q: Which country replaced President Viktor Yanukovych with Oleksandr Turchynov in Feb 2014 after lethal riots in Kiev? A: Ukraine
Q: Sony and Emirates Airlines withdrew their sponsorship in 2014 from which global organization after ongoing corruption scandals? A: FIFA
Q: What was the first day of the week in 2014? A: Wednesday
Q: Which Baltic state replaced its Lats currency with Euros on 1st Jan 2014? A: Latvia
Q: Lord Richard Attenborough, who died in 2014, played which serial killer in his early acting career, in 10 Rillington Place? A: John Christie
Q: Who triumphed playing 2014 Glastonbury Festival's 'legends' Sunday teatime slot? A: Dolly Parton
Q: According to 2014 Twitter statistics, how many million tweets are sent every day? A: 500
Q: Geographically, Guantanamo Bay is located in? A: Cuba
Q: What kitchen-related term refers to a major music publishing/retailing street, notably Manhattan's West 28th Street and London's Denmark Street? A: Tin Pan Alley
Q: Which sugar confectionery adopted the slogan 'Taste the Rainbow' in 1994? A: Skittles
Q: The Golden Spurtle is an annual world championship, held at Scotland's Cairngorms National Park, for? A: Porridge making
Q: What commodity value is benchmarked in the USA and elsewhere according to (among more technical terms) 'Texas Light Sweet'? A: Oil
Q: The dinosaur Archaeopteryx or (German) 'Urvogel' is considered a main ancestor of modern? A: Birds
Q: Warren Buffett coined (What?) key investment term to symbolize 'competitive immunity' of a corporation? A: Moat
Q: If five baskets contain respectively 7, 6, 5, 4 and 3 apples, what is the average number of apples in two baskets? A: Ten
Q: London's Claridge's hotel restaurant attracted pavement demonstrations in 2014 after objecting to a customer's? A: Breastfeeding a baby
Q: The coffin of which famous assassin, buried in 1963 and exhumed in 1981, was sold at auction for $87,500 in 2010? A: Lee Harvey Oswald
Q: What disease causes the human immune system to attack healthy tissue, named/believed originally from the bite of a wolf? A: Lupus
Q: Whose December 2014 official photographs, wearing a guardsman-design knitted pullover, prompted huge sales interest in the product? A: Prince George
Q: Dr Dre became the highest earning musician in 2014 by selling his headphones company (What?) to Apple for c.$600m? A: Beats
Q: The largest ever white (What?) weighing 4.16lbs was sold at NYC Sotheby's for $61,250 in 2014? A: Truffle
Q: Name the controversial 'extreme' global taxi-hailing smartphone app, banned by several territories in 2014? A: Uber
Q: A Weihnachtsbaum or Tannenbaum in Germany is a Christmas? A: Tree
Q: A square grid of square cells, with five cells in each of its longest diagonals, contains how many cells in total? A: 25
Q: What's the only major traditional British pantomime based on a real life person? A: Dick Whittington
Q: The Geminids of December are a? A: Meteor shower
Q: Latin 'Aurum' refers to which precious commodity? A: Gold
Q: What sort of song takes its name from old French for a circle dance? A: Carol
Q: Anser is the genus name for which family of creatures whose fat is traditional in cooking? A: Goose
Q: The notable drinks brands/makers Warninks, De Kuyper and Bols all originated in what country? A: Netherlands
Q: In the Christian calendar the 1st of January is traditionally a feast celebrating Christ's what? A: Circumcision
Q: According to biblical tradition the three 'magi' (wise men or kings) came from the? A: East
Q: What is an interface, a side, a logistics facility, and a geographically protected drink name? A: Port
Q: What's the traditional name for a cockerel or rooster that's been castrated, to improve the quality of its meat? A: Capon
Q: What creature is Equus africanus asinus? A: Donkey
Q: The 'Last Adam' is an alternative name for whom or what? A: Jesus Christ
Q: The lowest pitch string on a conventionally tuned violin is? A: G
Q: A pointe shoe is worn in? A: Ballet
Q: Named after a German physicist, what is the international (SI) unit of frequency, defined as one cycle per second? A: Hertz
Q: In maths/logic, the process of using one or more statements/facts to achieve a logical conclusion is known as? A: Deduction
Q: Who wrote The Communist Manifesto (1848) and Das Kapital (1867)? A: Karl Marx
Q: The original meaning of capital (financial/money) referred to 'caput', head, specifically head of? A: Cattle
Q: In categorizing workplace skills, Emotional Intelligence (EQ) typically represents (What?) skill? A: Soft
Q: Satin is traditionally/originally made from what fibre? A: Silk
Q: What (at 2015) is the only major nation of the world which charges income tax on its citizens working overseas? A: USA
Q: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are collectively known as (What?) religions, referring to their founding biblical character? A: Abrahamic
Q: Vande Mataram (I praise thee, Mother) is the national song of which BRIC nation? A: India
Q: Author Malcolm Gladwell popularized the notion (2000s) that to become truly expert at something a minimum of how many hours practice is required? A: 10,000
Q: The cylindrical roller in a traditional typewriter is a? A: Platen
Q: The Indian wind instrument, the pungi (also been or bin), is associated with what street activity? A: Snake charming
Q: The emblem of the Rainforest Alliance, which promotes and certifies sustainable rainforest business globally, is a green? A: Frog
Q: Expressed traditionally as N s, what in physics is the product of mass and velocity? A: Momentum
Q: FAST is the very apt acronym for recognizing and reacting to what sort of medical emergency? A: Stroke
Q: The German Imannuel Kant, Englishman Bertrand Russell, and American John Dewey, were notable? A: Philosophers
Q: What is a feature of wood, sand, cereal, and also 0.0648 grams? A: Grain
Q: What word meaning official procedure derives ultimately from Greek root words for first and glue? A: Protocol
Q: What word, from a US dietary reformist, refers to unsifted wholewheat flour? A: Graham
Q: The long-standing flag of New Zealand (to 2015) has how many stars, based on Crux, the Southern Cross constellation? A: Four
Q: Which 1900s time-travel movie franchise correctly predicted automatic self-tightening shoes for 2015? A: Back to the Future
Q: What US city is originally associated with Dixieland (jazz)? A: New Orleans
Q: 15 June 2015 is the 8th centenary of what seminal governance and human rights instrument? A: Magna Carta
Q: From Greek for wing and lizard, what name was given to a flying reptile of the Jurassic/Cretaceous periods? A: Pterosaur
Q: The sepals or calyx of a plant initially surround and generally give way to the? A: Petals
Q: The term domicile refers most accurately to a person's country of? A: Permanent home
Q: Alnwick Castle, Northumberland UK, featured in a popular movie franchise as which institution? A: Hogwarts school
Q: What's the more common name for a megagram (Mg)? A: Tonne
Q: What fruit is named from medieval Latin meaning seeded apple? A: Pomegranate
Q: The Italian term 'Intermezzo' refers to a piece of (What?) between two larger related creations? A: Music
Q: The main filling of a Scotch pie, (or shell pie) is traditionally? A: Mutton
Q: The price of which metal commodity is traditionally considered an indicator of global economic buoyancy? A: Copper
Q: What popular food takes its name from Italian for 'twine'? A: Spaghetti
Q: What's the surname of award-winning movie making brothers Joel and Ethan? A: Coen
Q: German physicist Rudolf Mossbauer ('mossbower'), and the 'Mossbauer effect' named after him, are associated with the science of? A: Radioactivity
Q: Oxbridge General Hospital featured in what famous UK TV medical series, 1957-67, regarded as a seminal soap opera? A: Emergency Ward 10
Q: In corporate finance, 'gearing' refers to an organization's ratio of? A: Debt to Equity
Q: Monsieur Rapide (French), Don Ocupado (Spanish), Meneertje Druk (Dutch), Unser Herr Schnell (German), and Bay Hýzlý (Turkish) are international versions of which character, from a children's book series? A: Mr Busy
Q: What food can be a wheel and contain eyes or veins? A: Cheese
Q: 'Cut-and-Come-Again' is an informal term in? A: Horticulture
Q: Fowler's Vacola, Kilner, Mason, and Weck are brands/designs of what? A: Glass jars
Q: Menchie's is a popular US international chain founded to supply what frozen product? A: Yoghurt
Q: The 'river herring' fish, or genus Alosa, which lives in sea and spawns in rivers, is popularly known as a? A: Shad
Q: ISO 9407 Mondopoint, Brannock, and Paris Point are systems for sizing? A: Shoes
Q: What term derived from French 'on equal terms' is a popular domestic job? A: Au pair
Q: The famous Hallé symphony orchestra was founded and is based in which city? A: Manchester
Q: 'Tam o' Shanter' in Scottish poet Robert Burns' 1790 poem of that name is a? A: Farmer
Q: Name the Soviet Russian orbiting space station, continuously occupied 1989-99 until its replacement by the International Space Station? A: Mir
Q: Pinchbeck, a 1700s alloy of copper and zinc, was a popular alternative for? A: Gold
Q: In geometry a lozenge is alternatively called (What?)-shaped? A: Diamond
Q: Used widely today, Irish Capt William Sankey devised his eponymous flow-(what?), for a steam engine in 1898? A: Diagram
Q: Marron glacé is a confection of glazed sugar-coated what? A: Chestnuts
Q: Name the debatably categorized celestial body that NASA's New Horizons probe targeted in 2015 after 9 years and 3bn miles? A: Pluto
Q: Which vast US corporation confidentially settled a c.13year dispute in 2010 with The Smiley Company for the use of the smiley face logo? A: Walmart
Q: Which famous pottery city is a (1910) merger of its original town and the adjacent Tunstall, Burslem, Hanley, Fenton and Longton? A: Stoke-on-Trent
Q: Reggae evolved from what three-letter Jamaican music genre? A: Ska
Q: Vermicular refers to patterns or movements like? A: Worms
Q: The inclusion of 'C/O' or 'C O' in a postal address means what? A: Care Of
Q: Vernal refers to which season? A: Spring
Q: The word 'fabulous' originally referred to something? A: Mythical
Q: Led by Ethan Allen, The Green Mountain Boys, c.1764-1776, established which US state, defeating the British provinces New York and New Hampshire? A: Vermont
Q: Amitabh Bachchan is a famous Indian? A: Film star
Q: Who, more known for detective stories, popularized the term 'The Lost World' in his 1912 book of that name? A: Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: "State the recall aim of the mathematical mnemonic ""How I wish I could recollect (what?) easily today"" ?" A: Pi
Q: What common product is named from Greek 'rock oil'? A: Petroleum
Q: Which common element has the highest melting point of all elements? A: Carbon
Q: Name the joint US/Europe orbiting telescope launched in 1990? A: Hubble
Q: The colour/color dun is a shade of? A: Brown
Q: Which famous vehicle has used licence plates SCV 00919 and SCV 1 (through to SCV 9)? A: The Popemobile
Q: The Gini coefficient (or index or ratio), devised by Italian statistician and sociologist Corrado Gini in 1912, is a common measure of? A: Wealth inequality
Q: What fundamental physics term derives from Greek 'not cut' (a temnein)? A: Atom
Q: Geococcyx, a ground cuckoo of southern US and Mexico, is the basis of which popular cartoon, its common name? A: Roadrunner
Q: In physics/maths, density is defined as mass divided by? A: Volume
Q: Pernio (or perniosis), a human medical condition caused by exposure to cold and humidity, is commonly known as what? A: Chilblains
Q: What marketing term derives from the centuries-old practice of burning an owner's mark on a beast? A: Brand
Q: The world's bitterest chemical Denatonium, branded 'Bitrex' and 'Aversion', is used in? A: Shampoo
Q: The famous song Una Paloma Blanca means in Spanish a white? A: Dove
Q: Which city has the most moving bridges in the world? A: Chicago
Q: The traditional African instrument called a djembe is a small? A: Drum
Q: In music what note is a tone above B? A: C#
Q: Which South-Asian curry dish is named from Persian 'two onions'? A: Dopiaza
Q: The Greek word praxis refers to what, contrasting with theory? A: Practice
Q: What famous striped creature shares the same genus as the onager and kiang? A: Zebra
Q: K'ung Futse (Venerated Master Kong) is better known as which major philosopher and religious founder? A: Confucius
Q: Scorpion W2 (USA), Woodland Pattern (USA), Flecktarn (Germany), and Multi-Terrain Pattern (UK) are notable designs of what? A: Camouflage
Q: The Astros, Rockets, and (defunct) Oilers are sports clubs of which city? A: Houston
Q: What informal term for illicit or counterfeit product derives from smuggling liquor in footwear? A: Bootleg
Q: Oslo University claimed in 2015 that the Bubonic plague outbreaks of the middle ages were caused by flea-carrying? A: Gerbils
Q: The successful and regionally dominant people called Goths in medieval times were? A: East-Germanic
Q: What was originally called 'wireless telegraphy'? A: Radio
Q: What internet mechanism is named from a popular US confection, thought originated by Chinese Californians? A: Cookie
Q: What military term for a multiple gun discharge referred originally in Latin/Italian to being out of danger or safe? A: Salvo
Q: What's the largest capital city without a river, and also the oldest capital of its continent? A: Mexico City
Q: The strongest known biological material was identified by scientists (2015) in the teeth of a? A: Limpet
Q: What hyphenated surname was adopted for members of British Queen Elizabeth II's family? A: Mountbatten-Windsor
Q: Titan is the project codename for Apple's development? A: iCar
Q: Who became the fastest-selling Playmobil toy figure, to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the Protestant Reformation in 2017? A: Martin Luther
Q: What technical term, prefixed with 'extraordinary/irregular', refers euphemistically to the abduction/transfer of a person by one nation to another? A: Rendition
Q: In 1895 German company Bayer created what genericized trademark for a diacetylmorphine cough suppressant, alluding to the Greek god/goddess of bravery and self-sacrifice? A: Heroin
Q: The flags of China, Japan, Argentina, Uruguay, Greenland and Bangladesh share what common feature? A: Sun
Q: Circumvallate papilla, fungiform papilla, and foliate papilla are commonly called? A: Taste buds
Q: In the conventional game of darts, 'madhouse' is the name given to a 'Double-(What?)' finish? A: One
Q: What mathematical term for a part derives from ecclesiastical Latin for 'breaking bread'? A: Fraction
Q: What's the cube root of 125,000? A: 50
Q: The cemetery of which chaotic 16th century London hospital became a major archeological project in 2015? A: Bedlam
Q: Michelin star chef Kevin Lowe moved from Heston Blumenthal's organization in 2015 to? A: Lidl
Q: Which dog breed was popularized in the Oscar winning 2012 silent film The Artist? A: Jack Russell
Q: The byssal threads of a water-dwelling mussel which attach to a surface are commonly called its? A: Beard
Q: The typical unit measure of 3.6MJ (mega joules) by which electric power is typically sold is more commonly called one? A: Kilowatt/hour
Q: (As at early 2000s) which non-Olympic women's athletic event has a world record points total of just over 5,000 points? A: Pentathlon
Q: Mate (or maté, yerba mate, or chimarrão) is a popular South American-originating? A: Drink
Q: Amazon's next-day delivery service censured for breaching UK advertising standards is? A: Prime
Q: What medieval war cry, popularised by Shakespeare with the phrase 'dogs of war', means destruction? A: Havoc
Q: An enemy group within and threatening a larger entity is called a '(What?) Column'? A: Fifth
Q: Which profession (western world) traditionally wears a toque blanche with a hundred folds? A: Chef
Q: What West African Republic, on the river of the same name, is a narrow 200 mile east-west strip within Senegal? A: Gambia
Q: What metal, whose symbol is its first and third letters, is loosely called spelter? A: Zinc
Q: The 2013 Disney animation Frozen is based on what Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, in Danish 'Snedronningen'? A: The Snow Queen
Q: The conventional symbol for electrical current is? A: i
Q: "US president Theodore Roosevelt's quote (from which a style of state foreign policy is named), is ""Speak softly and carry a big...""?" A: Stick
Q: What seed-eating bird, genus fringilla, native to Europe/Asia/N Africa, is named after cereal crop waste from which it forages? A: Chaffinch
Q: Noted for his humilty and rejection of personal wealth/benefits Jose Mujica was the former guerrilla fighter and popular president of which South American country 2010-15? A: Uruguay
Q: Lafarge, Holcim, and Heidelberg are among the world's leading producers of? A: Cement
Q: Jean-Marie and daughter Marine Le Pen are leading figures in French extreme? A: Politics
Q: Sabatier, Victorinox and Füritechnics are leading makers of Kitchen? A: Knives
Q: Cryogenics is the study of materials in extreme? A: Cold
Q: Sugar melted to its hottest confectionery stage naturally produces? A: Caramel
Q: Taisho (1st World War), and Heisei (late 1900s/early 2000 - 'the lost decade') are periods of which nation's history? A: Japan
Q: Founded c1940 by art historian Sir Nikolaus Pevsner, and still expanding, Pevsner Guides are major reference for British? A: Architecture
Q: Which popular BBC children's TV characters ate 'blue string pudding', The... ? A: Clangers
Q: Invented in 1656, what was the most reliable time-keeping technology until the 1930s? A: Pendulum clock
Q: Michael Ibsen, descendent and 2012 DNA match-proof for English King Richard III, was also (What?) at Richard III's reinterment in 2015? A: Casket-maker
Q: Approximately how many litres of water is required to produce a kilo of grain-fed beef? A: 15,000
Q: What is 90% of 90? A: 81
Q: What medieaval English word for 'expensive food' (due to a famine), came to mean 'a scarcity' (of anything)? A: Dearth
Q: What discipline is practised according to Vaganova/Russian, French, and Cecchetti methods? A: Ballet
Q: What anabolic steroid is the principal male sex hormone? A: Testosterone
Q: South Korea's national dish 'kimchi' (kimchee/gimchi), with variants in nearby countries, is seasoned aged pickled/fermented? A: Cabbage
Q: """I wandered lonely as a cloud"" is William Wordsworth's poem about?" A: Daffodils
Q: What dance/music/style name is thought derived from the Spanish word ('with the colour of flame') for the wading bird Phoenicopterus? A: Flamenco
Q: A cairn, a traditional trail marker for walkers/explorers, of simple or grand design, is basically a? A: Pile of stones
Q: Prince Charles' private letters to government ministers, made public by the UK Supreme Court in 2015, are known as the '(What?) memos', due to his handwriting style? A: Black spider
Q: Contralto refers to a singing voice/range equating to? A: Lowest Female
Q: Name Warren Buffett's investment corporation, which he bought in 1964, ostensibly to sack its boss who had made him angry? A: Berkshire Hathaway
Q: The areca nut (often with betel leaf), a popular stimulant in Asia, is traditionally prepared for? A: Chewing
Q: The Italian word 'scuderia' typically referring to a motor racing team, eg Scuderia Ferrari, means? A: Stable
Q: The ball-shaped roots of a more popular salad vegetable, Bergers White Ball, Ibis, Kojak, and Snow White are what? A: Celeriac
Q: The eponymous cannabis brand launched in 2015 by a famous country music singer is? A: Willie's Reserve
Q: Created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger, who first appeared in Detective Comics No27 in May 1939? A: Batman
Q: What is the area of an isosceles right-angled triangle whose short sides are 2 metres each? A: 2 square metres
Q: The Ryman Auditorium (also called the Union Gospel Tabernacle) is the home of what major music institution? A: The Grand Ole Opry
Q: The position of the Arctic Circle was/is determined by? A: Sun visibility
Q: The word marmalade is from Portuguese 'marmelo', meaning? A: Quince
Q: Commonly used in batteries, what is the lightest metal and least dense solid element? A: Lithium
Q: Name the fantasy flat world on which the 2015 posthumously published novel The Shepherd's Crown is set? A: Discworld
Q: What word commonly follows Plastic, Food, Saran, Glad and Cling in its geographical variations? A: Wrap
Q: In 1964, the first commoner featured on a British postage stamp was? A: William Shakepeare
Q: Australia's Liberal National, USA's Democratic, and Israel's Likud political parties are all traditionally branded what colour/color? A: Blue
Q: The 1957 'Synchrocyclotron' near Geneva was the forerunner for what world's biggest machine, 'LHC' built 1998-2008? A: Large Hadron Collider
Q: What is the fourth root of 16? A: 2
Q: Name the artist-owned music streaming service launched in 2015 by rapper Jay-Z? A: Tidal
Q: The traditional Turkish jelick or yelek, the derivation of an Anglicized French garment name is a? A: Waistcoat
Q: 'Badi Bhabhi', meaning ‘eldest brother’s wife’, refers typically to the senior female in family groups common in? A: India
Q: MIPS means what in computing speed? A: Million Instructions Per Second
Q: What sort of sports shoe is the Adidas Stan Smith? A: Tennis
Q: What medieval term, whose venues are now mostly 'town' halls (UK, Netherlands, Belgium) refers to a merchant association? A: Guild
Q: What concept, originated by the Duke of Wellington for military study, was named in 1959 in referring to Palo Alto's Center for Behavioral Sciences? A: Think Tank
Q: Pat Pending, Rufus Ruffcut, the Slag Brothers and Sergeant Blast are lesser known characters in what popular 1960s TV franchise? A: Wacky Races
Q: The 1880-founded Northamptonshire UK company Loake Brothers, whose products unusually comprise up to 75 parts, is famed for making high quality? A: Shoes
Q: European Union production quotas, established in 1984, were abolished in 2015 for? A: Milk
Q: In 490BC Pheidippides ran fatally from Athens to Sparta to ask for help in the Battle of 'Where'? A: Marathon
Q: US billionaire publisher and 3-term New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg reportedly targeted which role for 2016? A: London Mayor
Q: Mathematicians Leonhard Euler and Augustus Mobius pioneered 'geometria situs' ('geometry of place'), later called? A: Topology
Q: Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's famous 1969 personal change concept is called the Five Stages of? A: Grief
Q: What ancient instrument did Orpheus play to charm creatures, rivers, and Hades in the Underworld? A: Lyre
Q: What pluralised food term and allusion to Hansel and Gretel refers to a website navigation feature? A: Breadcrumbs
Q: US mathematician Edward Lorenz's 1963 paper Deterministic Nonperiodic Flow referred to a seagull, which he subsequently changed to (What creature?), representing his chaos theory observation? A: Butterfly
Q: What US popular culture magazine title, founded 1967 by Jann Wenner, was inspired by three so-named 1950s/60s musical sources? A: Rolling Stone
Q: Which nation has the coastal state of Tabasco? A: Mexico
Q: Maltese physician Edward de Bono is noted for his pioneering work on? A: Lateral Thinking
Q: What takes roughly 23 hours, 56 minutes, 4 seconds? A: Earth's rotation
Q: What's the common technical term for the removal of a president from office, due to wrong-doing? A: Impeachment
Q: Name the live video streaming app bought by Twitter for $100m in 2015? A: Periscope
Q: What process improvement method, pioneered by Motorola Corp in the 1980s, is named after a number and the Greek letter 's'? A: Six Sigma
Q: New York housewife Jean Nidetch (1923-2015) founded which global organization, sold to Heinz in 1978 for $71m? A: Weight Watchers
Q: What controversial politician sought to sell AC Milan in 2015 to finance his quest for rehabiliation and power? A: Silvio Berlusconi
Q: Which vehicle tyre/tire corporation sold Citroen to Peugeot in 1976? A: Michelin
Q: Which famous political brother became president of the International Rescue Committee in 2013? A: David Miliband
Q: What is note is produced at the 10th fret for both the highest and lowest pitch strings on a conventionally-tuned standard guitar? A: D
Q: The American pika, closely related to rabbits and hares, is commonly called a? A: Coney
Q: What's Peppa Pig's teddy bear called? A: Teddy
Q: Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao famously oppose/opposed each other in? A: Boxing
Q: The Leffe beer company was founded and is headquartered in? A: Belgium
Q: In January 2015 economist Yanis Varoufakis became a leading debt-restructuring negotiator for? A: Greece
Q: What is Australia's national bird? A: Emu
Q: The famously rebuilt Shakespeare's theatre on London's River Thames South Bank is the? A: Globe
Q: Plaid Cymru (roughly pronounced 'plied cumrie') is the nationalist poltitical party of which nation? A: Wales
Q: What does the 'Real' mean in the names of Real Madrid and Real Sociedad Spanish footbal clubs? A: Royal
Q: Italian Niccolo Paganini (1782-1840) was a composer and virtuoso player of the? A: Violin
Q: Sterlet, Ossetra, Sevruga and Beluga are main types of what? A: Caviar
Q: Name the mountains across north-western Africa ranging c.1,600miles through Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia? A: Atlas Mountains
Q: Which iconic 'hippie' fragrance, from the Pogostemon cablin plant, did Mattel use in making the 1985 'Stinkor' Masters of the Universe toy action figure? A: Patchouli
Q: Named after a Scottish village near where it was discovered in 1790, what soft metal element, symbol Sr, was used to make cathode ray TV tubes? A: Strontium
Q: According to legend, the sheltering of a Spanish ship in Dundee, late-1700s, prompted James and Janet Keiller to buy its cargo of (What?), thus founding a major new product/business? A: Oranges
Q: Which 12-15C royal household was named after French Geoffrey d'Anjou's association with the broom shrub, medieval Latin 'planta genista'? A: Plantagenet
Q: What is the biggest country by area in Africa? A: Algeria
Q: The Latin 'Tabula Rasa' (a term covering various philosophical concepts, e.g., humans minds are 'empty' at birth) translates literally to mean what? A: Blank Slate
Q: The open fourth string (4th highest) note of a conventionally tuned guitar is? A: D
Q: What vast Japanese corporation, with a red initial logo, was founded in Hamamatsu in 1909? A: Suzuki
Q: The informal term for a gangster, especially belonging to the Mafia is? A: Goodfella
Q: The occupational surname Fuller, referred to a worker (who used 'Fuller's Earth') of? A: Wool
Q: Relevé refers in ballet to standing while raising? A: Heels
Q: Hardpad disease, affecting dogs and other species, is more commonly known by what other name? A: Distemper
Q: What is a female outer garment, a cut of meat; and a part of a hovercraft and saddle? A: Skirt
Q: What weapon is named from the French word meaning scratch or graze? A: Rifle
Q: What first name name features prominently among Russian rulers from 1332-1547, ending with '(Who?) the Terrible'? A: Ivan
Q: A car moving at 30 miles per hour will travel how far in 10 minutes? A: 5 miles
Q: 'God be with you' is the full original form of which common word? A: Goodbye
Q: The Virginia Native American, Matoaka, aka Amonute, captured by the English 1613, becoming Rebecca Rolfe (c1595-1617), is better known by what name (also a 1995 Disney film)? A: Pocahontas
Q: Penguins increase their swimming speed by emitting (What?) from their feathers? A: Air bubbles
Q: The Harlem Globetrotters, founded 1920s, perform in which field? A: Basketball
Q: From Sanskrit for a 'drop/dot' what Hindi word is a South Asian forehead decoration? A: Bindi
Q: Winston Churchill referred to what event as the 'Miracle of Deliverance'? A: Dunkirk
Q: The Up! and Eos and CC are models of which car brand? A: Volkswagen
Q: The subtitle of the 2015 Mad Max film is? A: Fury Road
Q: Which automobile brand was officially adopted in 1900 after the Spanish name of racing entrepreneur Emil Jellinek's daughter? A: Mercedes
Q: Cannes Film Festival 2015 (Gala Screenings) banned women wearing? A: Flat shoes
Q: Gregory Peck, Robert Mitchum and Martin Balsam had cameo roles in the 1991 remake of what 1962 film in which they starred? A: Cape Fear
Q: Swiss investigation and US prosecution mid-2015 for mismanagement/corruption was directed at? A: FIFA
Q: What is a seed-eating songbird family and festive decoration? A: Bunting
Q: Terroir refers to the complete environment in which what is produced? A: Wine
Q: The Cunard organization's Elizabeth, Victoria, and Mary 2 are? A: Cruise ships
Q: Name the iconic Bond girl character introduced by Ian Fleming in 1959? A: Pussy Galore
Q: In 2015 Norway unveiled the world's tallest statue (10m) of a what, 30cm higher than Canada's? A: Elk
Q: "Mae West said of sex and bridge ""If you don't have a good partner, you'd better have a good (What?)" A: Hand
Q: Which pseudonymous artist's most valuable works include Kissing Coppers and Vandalised Phone Box? A: Banksy
Q: Hosni Mubarak was ousted as leader in 2011 from which nation? A: Egypt
Q: The process of becoming a (What?) begins with Aspirancy, then Postulancy and Novitiate? A: Nun
Q: 'Pas de deux' in dressage and ballet equates to a what? A: Duet
Q: Launched 1999, Co-op owned, claimed to be the first ever full-service internet bank was? A: Smile
Q: Wagner, Verdi, Bellini and Rossini are famous composers of particularly what type of music? A: Opera
Q: Englishman Eric Arthur Blair, who fought for the Spanish Workers' Party of Marxist Unification against Franco's forces in 1936 was later known by what famous pen-name? A: George Orwell
Q: American jazz musician Chet Baker was a virtuoso player of the? A: Trumpet
Q: Popular in Cyprus, Greece, Turkey and increasingly elsewhere, which unripened brined cheese can be fried due to its high melting-point? A: Halloumi
Q: Which large-flowered plant is named after Paeon/Paean, Greek god of medicine and healing? A: Peony
Q: Who painted 'Women of Algiers', sold at auction for a record $160m in 2015? A: Picasso
Q: What sea creature might be punned with an expression of agreement or authorization? A: Seal
Q: Hitsville, in Detroit, is the original recording studio of which famous record label? A: Motown
Q: Which technology corporation launched major music streaming services including Beats1 radio in 2015? A: Apple
Q: On which Mediterranean island is the famous nightlife holiday resort of Magaluf? A: Majorca
Q: What are metal rope-fixings on a boat and cyclist's shoes? A: Cleats
Q: The 1974 book Helter Skelter, co-written by lawyer Vincent Bugliosi, recounts whose famous crime? A: Charles Manson
Q: Anna Wintour is globally famous in? A: Fashion
Q: Which nation, international calling code +90, has a currency divided into 100 kuruş? A: Turkey
Q: Which king signed the Magna Carta and died in Newark having lost his treasure in the salt marshes of eastern England? A: John
Q: What activity would you find at Philippe Chatrier, Roland Garros? A: Tennis
Q: The sequel to Fifty Shades of Grey, 'stolen' before its release in 2015, is titled? A: Grey
Q: Psilocybin (pronounced 'sillasybin') is the natural active ingredient of? A: Magic Mushrooms
Q: The Swiss-founded Hublot corporation famously provides certain major sports events? A: Timekeeping
Q: The onomatopoeic Greek originating borborygmi refers medically to? A: Stomach rumble
Q: What took place near Brussels, celebrated and re-enacted for its 200th anniversary in June 2015? A: The Battle of Waterloo
Q: Poets' Corner, which commemorates and contains remains of writers, is in which London building? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: Name the celebrity entrepreneur who sought to be US Republican presidential candidate in 2015? A: Donald Trump
Q: Inspired largely by John Calvin, the Hugeunots minorities of the 16th century were? A: Protestants
Q: The piddock (Pholadidae and 'angelwings') is a rock-boring? A: Mollusc
Q: Queen's Club Championship tennis tournament is held annually on grass courts in? A: London
Q: Which media organization successfully tested its 'mind/thought control' EEG TV/Radio remote control headset in 2015? A: BBC
Q: Lorelei is a famous 120 rock, and its mermaid-like water spirit, on/associated with which German river? A: Rhine
Q: Diegesis refers to what in a film, play, story, etc? Cast of characters; Plot; Suspense; or Laughter coefficient? A: Plot
Q: The rhea is a large South American species of? A: Flightless bird
Q: Orson Welles' iconic character in the film The Third Man is? A: Harry Lime
Q: The Defender is a longstanding model of which automotive company? Landrover; Lotus; Toyota; or Bentley? A: Landrover
Q: What is 11,000 divided by 440? A: 25
Q: What was the location of London's famous 17th century 'Frost Fairs'? A: The River Thames
Q: Which controversial US icon's three versions are The.. 'Stars and Bars', 'Stainless Banner' and 'Blood-Stained Banner'? A: Confederate Flag
Q: What is the famous scenic wooded area of SW Germany which gave its name to a locally originating chocolate and cherry cake? A: Black Forest
Q: A loofah (or luffa) bath sponge is previously a sort of? A: Cucumber
Q: The famous tea brandname Typhoo, created c.1903 by the Sumner pharmacy/grocers in Birmingham UK, is from the Chinese word for? A: Doctor
Q: What is produced by asexual reproduction from mycelium? A: Fungus
Q: The Ross Sea is a bay of which continent? A: Antarctica
Q: The popular website Pinterest was founded basically for? A: Photo-sharing
Q: Which European nation's flag has nine horizontal blue and white stripes, and top-left a white cross on a blue square? A: Greece
Q: A sudden unofficial walkout or industrial action by workers is called informally a (What?) strike? A: Wildcat
Q: Breathe-Relax-Aim-Sight-Squeeze refers to the essential process for effective? A: Rifle-shooting
Q: The grammatical term for a word which joins two independent clauses is a? A: Conjunction
Q: Mnemosyne (pronounced 'nemmoseeny') is the Greek goddess Mother of the Muses and also goddess of? A: Memory
Q: In maths, the single digits within every 'product' (answer) of which single number's 'times-table' (up to 10x) helpfully also add up to the number itself? A: 9
Q: Which city, mythically founded by a twin saved by a she-wolf, was built on the seven hills, east of the River Tiber called Aventine, Caelian, Capitoline, Esquiline, Palatine, Quirinal and Viminal? A: Rome
Q: Permian, Eocene, Silurian, and Pleistocine are? A: Geological periods
Q: What expression meaning 'ok' or 'all well', and a David Bowie album, derives partly from Dutch 'honk' for home or base? A: Hunky-dory
Q: Humus refers to the component in soil (earth) that is? A: Decomposed organic matter
Q: What travels at 299,792,458 metres per second? A: Light
Q: What informal term for a common type of pet derives from the name Margaret? A: Moggie
Q: Shi Go Roko ('she go rocko') is 'four five six' in? A: Japanese
Q: The Canadian 1972-founded global Aldo corporation specialises in? A: Footwear
Q: What French port became an increasingly tense bottleneck/encampment for refugees seeking to reach the UK in the 2010s? A: Calais
Q: A Gaelic sliotar/sliothar features in several field sports as a type of? A: Ball
Q: Which nation acquired sovereignty of Carribean archipelago Puerto Rico in 1898, ongoing as its territory to 2010s? A: USA
Q: What Anglicized French term for a comedy and food stuffing (breadcrumbs/herbs, etc), was originally an allusion to jocular material 'stuffed' into serious religious plays? A: Farce
Q: The Japanese cartoon character devised in 1974 worth over $5bn as a TV/fashion franchise is 'Hello (What?)'? A: Kitty
Q: Which nation's Supreme Court legalized same sex marriage in June 2015? A: USA
Q: What famous ship is also a reward, especially for capturing someone/something dangerous? A: Bounty
Q: The seahorse (Hippocampus) is technically a Fish; Mollusc; Reptile; or Plant? A: Fish
Q: The Bodleian, George Peabody, Congress, and Vatican are famous? A: Libraries
Q: Which popular (2015) online brand's logo is three parallel black arcs inside a green disc? A: Spotify
Q: The 1956 fictional movie of the discovery of rock'n'roll featuring Bill Haley and the Comets is Rock Around the (What?)? A: Clock
Q: The 'puri/poori/puree' in the Indian dish 'prawn puri' refers to what aspect? A: Bread
Q: In the iconic 1962 western film, the fictional character Liberty Valance features in the story/title as the man who is? A: Shot
Q: What travels at 270,000mph, is hotter than the sun, and kills over 20,000 people every year? A: Lightning
Q: The North American Gold Rush of 1849 brought vast immigration to? A: California
Q: Tyson Fury, Wladimir Klitschko, and Dereck Chisora are notable 21st Century? A: Heavyweight boxers
Q: In what 1986 Neil Jordan film is Bob Hoskins a driver for Cathy Tyson's prostitute? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Russian billionaire industrialist Roman Abramovich's investment corporation is called '(What?) Capital'? A: Millhouse
Q: The word Eintracht in German soccer/sports club names equates to? A: United
Q: Choppy, Fannings, Golden Flowery, and Tippy are grades of? A: Tea
Q: A cooked lobster changes from? A: Blue to Orange
Q: Built 1406-1420 as a political HQ/palace, The Forbidden City is in? A: Beijing
Q: What human joint, in Latin 'cubitum', has a pit and bony protrusion called olecranon? A: Elbow
Q: Ginger Baker is considered one of the greatest ever virtuoso players of the? A: Drums
Q: The Fiestas de San Firmin, held every July in Spain, is famed for what risky public event? A: Running of the Bulls
Q: Abbey Road in North London is the famous metonymic location of what entity? A: Recording studios
Q: 6,859 is the cube of what number, (less than twenty)? A: 19
Q: Go Set a Watchman is the 55-years-after sequel to what famous work? A: To Kill A Mockingbird
Q: When drawing the musical the treble (G) clef symbol, the line crosses itself how many times? A: Three
Q: 2,000 years ago Nanjing was what in China? A: Capital city
Q: In 2015, 21st Century Fox company launched what Simpson's show fictional beer brand in S America? A: Duff
Q: Called the IPK, the standard (What?) is a platinum-iridium cylinder at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in Sevres France? A: Kilogram
Q: The Apple watch launched Apr 2015 is called the? A: Apple Watch
Q: The Silfra fissure, in the Pingvallavatn valley, uniquely offering scuba-diving between the N American and Euroasian tectonic plates is in? A: Iceland
Q: Which Czech-born Swiss won two Wimbledon championships in 2015, 17 years after her previous Championship victory? A: Martina Hingis
Q: Funchal is the capital of which Portuguese autonomous island territory? A: Madeira
Q: Name the 2015 Disney animated film about the workings of a child's mind, praised by psychologists/neuroscientists? A: Inside Out
Q: The long-standing circular VW (Volkswagen) logo contains the V and W characters and how many gaps between the circular and letter shapes? A: 6
Q: What Eurasian winged-fruit maple tree is named after the Greek words sukon (fig) and moron (mulberry)? A: Sycamore
Q: What Native American Apache Indian chief's name became an exclamation of exhilaration? A: Geronimo
Q: What note is produced at the 5th fret of the 5th string (ie the 2nd lowest pitched) of a conventionally tuned guitar? A: D
Q: In physics, the motions of particles within matter is understood by (What?) theory? A: Kinetic
Q: Which old English King is associated with having burned cakes? A: Alfred
Q: The old English tithe, was a tax taken for the church/clergy equating to a? A: Tenth
Q: Strongly scented toilet water is named after which city of its origination? A: Cologne
Q: Le Coq Sportif is a famous French corporation/brand for? A: Sportswear/goods
Q: An opsimath is a person who begins to do what later in life? A: Study
Q: The literary/dramatic description 'redivivus' (emphasis on the 'div') refers to someone who comes back? A: To life
Q: Neolithic refers to which age? A: Stone
Q: Olibanum is the medieval Latin alternative English word for which Biblical aromatic resin? A: Frankincense
Q: Phylum porifera is the technical name for what organic cleaning device? A: Sponge
Q: Mandrax is a 1963 French-originating trademark for a? A: Sedative drug
Q: A mythical Arctic whirlpool west of Norway, came to be what Anglicized Dutch word, meaning a violent water whirl or metaphorically extreme turmoil? A: Maelstrom
Q: Utilitarian and utilitarianism refer primarily to the major quality/effect of something being? A: Useful
Q: What is the cube root of an eighth? A: A Half
Q: The 1920s-originating US expression, hootenanny, is traditionally a gathering of people for? A: Folk music
Q: In 2015 the world speed record for (What?) was broken in 6.88 seconds by Australian Feliks Zemdegs? A: Solving a Rubik's Cube
Q: Apple Inc's 'digital wallet' virtual banking service is called Apple? A: Pay
Q: The founder of Wikipedia is Graham India; Jimmy Wales; Mario Brazil; or Nigel Nigeria? A: Jimmy Wales
Q: Utrecht is a province and provincial capital city in central? A: Netherlands
Q: What is the historically Moorish Spanish capital of Andalusia, famous for oranges and flamenco? A: Seville
Q: What chemical element, symbol Cr, is named due its colourful/colorful compound effect? A: Chromium
Q: The Anglicized French word séance, referring to contacting the spirit world, derives from the notion of? A: Sitting
Q: The technical term 'lean-burn' originally refers to less polluting versions of what energy technology? A: Internal combustion engine
Q: A patisserie is an Anglicized French word for a shop that sells? A: Cakes/pastries
Q: What black and white creature exists across Europe, Africa, Asia and N America with variants including the 'Asiatic stink (What?)'? A: Badger
Q: What quick punctuation mark has two versions known technically as 'en rule' and 'em rule'? A: Dash
Q: Deezer, Tidal, Onerpm, and Tunecore operate in what industrial sector? A: Music
Q: The word fiscal in a financial sense generally refers to? A: Governmental
Q: What is 3.6297 divided by 1? A: 3.6297
Q: What is the main component of blood besides cells and clotting/glycoprotein factors? Serum; Water; Mucus; or Sweat? A: Serum
Q: Explorers and mountaineers have for many decades eaten high-energy 'Kendal (What?) Cake'? A: Mint
Q: The essential constituent of the Chinese culinary delicacy 'Bird's Nest Soup' is? A: Saliva
Q: Copper takes its name from which country, where it was mined in Roman times? A: Cyprus
Q: Botanically a banana is a? A: Berry
Q: The medieval-originating 'patten' is a type of (What?) designed for mud? Shoe; Shovel; Bucket; or Pig? A: Shoe
Q: The Anglicized Italian word cognoscenti refers to people in relation to a subject who are? A: Well-informed/aware
Q: The ancient Thracian peltasts and Greek hoplites were large units of infantrymen mainly armed with? A: Spears
Q: In ancient Rome, the 'Culina' was the? A: Kitchen
Q: What colour/color is produced by mixing equal amounts of red and green paint? A: Brown
Q: In Germany a gessellschaft is a? A: Company
Q: The Elvis Presley song Hound Dog was originally written about a? A: Gigolo
Q: In August 2015 Hamas claimed to have intercepted an Israeli (What?) equipped for spying and armed attack? A: Dolphin
Q: Which modern nation was home to the Aztec people, notably 14-16th centuries? A: Mexico
Q: The comic book franchise behind Spiderman, Hulk, X-Men, and Fantastic Four is? A: Marvel
Q: The iconic protected scientifically studied Zimbabwean lion killed by a US recreational hunter in 2015 was? A: Cecil
Q: London's 'pedicabs', which came under new regulatory controls in 2015, are? A: Cycle-rickshaws
Q: A 2015 study by China's Dalian University found that owls fly silently because their feathers convert a biproduct of mechanical energy into (What?) instead of noise? A: Heat
Q: Renaissance is an Anglicized-French word meaning? A: Rebirth/revival
Q: The element Silcon is vaguely yet generally categorized as? A: Non-metal/metalloid
Q: The American Mastodon is an ancient long-extinct relative of the? A: Elephant
Q: Ilya (pronounced 'eelya') Kuryakin is a? A: Man from UNCLE
Q: The Cantonese/Chinese dish 'foo yong' (also 'fu young') is similar to? A: Omelette
Q: The Anglicized Japanese word futon basically refers to a? A: Mattress
Q: The 18C legal term 'Ragman Roll', a record of crimes, originated what modern word for a long complex procedure? A: Rigmarole
Q: What term was popularised by the eponymous 1979 film about a nuclear reactor meltdown hypothetically 'burning' from the US through Earth to other side? A: The China Syndrome
Q: The Virgin space tourism business is branded? A: Galactic
Q: What Anglicized German Italian term for 'circulation of money' became a brand for electronic financial transfer, and UK slang for a state benefits payment? A: Giro
Q: What informal boxing term arose from Muhammad Ali's defeat of George Foreman in 1974, in which Ali covered up against the ropes, causing Foreman's exhaustion from sustained ineffectual punching? A: Rope-a-dope
Q: The Anglo-French court term meaning 'this action lies' gave rise to what word which means the essense of a communication/concept? A: Gist
Q: Xinhau is China's official state? A: News agency
Q: A trug is used to hold/carry things when? A: Gardening
Q: What historic UK county part-comprises East Ridings and West Ridings? Northumberland; Yokshire; Kent; or Cork? A: Yorkshire
Q: Monsanto is a globally dominant corporation in the sector of? A: Agriculture
Q: The Australian wombat marsupial has what unusually adapted feature for burrow-digging? A: Backwards-facing pouch
Q: The 'Dames Pipi' are traditional Parisien? A: Public toilet attendants
Q: Smits and Lugs are Viking-originating (still used) painted marks and ear notches for identifying UK? A: Sheep
Q: The chemical element cobalt is a? A: Metal
Q: Which famous corporate logo changed to a flat colour/color sans serif font in its first major change since 1999? A: Google
Q: Developed by Swedish company Mojang, Minecraft is a popular? A: Video game
Q: What icon dominated the 2015 shortlisted designs for a potentially new national flag of New Zealand? A: Fern
Q: A maze of what plants was built to celebrate the opening of the Van Gogh museum in Amsterdam, 2015? A: Sunflowers
Q: Tahini paste, for example used in houmous, is made from which seeds? A: Sesame
Q: The Speyside or (locally called Strathspey) area of NE Scotland is famous for its '(What?) Trial' and longstanding traditional production of? A: Whisky
Q: Japan's NTT DoCoMo mobile phone company developed which texting icon 'pictograph' series, Japanese for 'picture' and 'character'? A: Emoji
Q: In computer gaming what famous and controversial franschise does GTA represent? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: A quarter divided by a half is a? A: Half
Q: The band/sheet of connective tissue under the skin in human anatomy, chiefly of collagen, which stabilizes/supports organs and muscles, is? A: Fascia
Q: The arctic mountain 'ptarmigan' which changes to white in winter, is a? A: Bird
Q: """Spokoynoy nochi, malyshi!"" (""Good Night, Little Ones"") is a long-running (since 1964) famous children's TV program in?" A: Russia
Q: What mobile entertainment takes its name from the ancient Roman rounded arenas? A: Circus
Q: What metallic element has the highest electrical and thermal conductivity, and reflectivity? A: Silver
Q: British Queen Victoria (1819-1901) is what relation to Queen Elizabeth II? A: Great Great Grandmother
Q: What completely non-infectious neurodegenerative disease was misreported as being 'infectious' by most mainstream UK news media in September 2015? A: Alzheimer's
Q: Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony and tellurium are commonly considered the six primary chemical element? A: Metalloids
Q: Coccinellidae, whose common name variants suggest a female form, are? A: Beetles
Q: In modern times a 'life celebrant' typically officiates at a humanist? A: Funeral
Q: Deriving from 'Tagalog' Austronesian language 'bundok' (mountain) the US-English word 'boondocks' (and 'boonies') refers disrespectfully to? A: A remote rural area
Q: Rocna, Spade, Bulwagga, Grapnel and Admiralty/Fisherman are varieties of? A: Anchor
Q: Facebook confusingly announced in 2015 the introduction of a '(What?) button'? A: Dislike
Q: Kenkojuku, Shotokan, Chito-ryu, and Wado-ryu are styles/types of Japanese? A: Karate
Q: What model iPhone was the most modern available in 2015? A: 6
Q: SUV and SAV cars are characterized by what additional capability? A: Off-road
Q: The word 'impropriety' refers to actions that are? A: Dishonest
Q: The Vouvray district of the French Loire Valley is famous for its white? A: Wine
Q: Technically known as 'the vernacular', an old term for the day-to-day native language of a people/region is The ? A: Vulgar Tongue
Q: The female former Hewlett-Packard CEO who vied to be US Rebublican Presidential candidate 2015/16 is Carly? A: Fiorina
Q: Araneus diadematus is the widely-found European garden? A: Spider
Q: The first major supermarket chain to introduce the UK 'national living wage' (£9.35/2015) was? A: Lidl
Q: Matzo(h) or matza(h) is an unleavened bread traditionally eaten by which people? A: Jews
Q: Celery is a member of what commonly named plant family? A: Parsley
Q: Vermiculture refers to the cultivation of? A: Earthworms
Q: 'Ballroom' and 'Latin' definitions determine which one of these is not a Latin dance? A: Tango
Q: Samphire, variously found by sea and marsh, is a popular culinary fleshy aromatic? A: Leaved plant
Q: What is the original and alternative Latin title of the Catholic prayer called Hail Mary, also its first line? A: Ave Maria
Q: Which vast technology corporation brand has used (c.1977-modern day) the typefaces Motter Tektura, Garamond, Myriad, Helvetica and San Francisco? A: Apple
Q: The highest male voice type in conventional singing terminology is? A: Countertenor
Q: Sphenisciformes, whose wings evolved into flippers, are an order of creatures called? A: Penguins
Q: In electronics, what is the basic function of a capacitor in relation to electrical energy? A: Storing
Q: Eastern, Central, Mountain, Pacific, Alaska standard and Hawaii-Aleutian standard are the six official USA? A: Time zones
Q: Which one of these is not typically considered a 'profit lever' in business management? A: Competition
Q: Tagine, a North African meat and vegetable stew, originally/also refers (Arabic tajin) to a? A: Frying pan
Q: The radioactive chemical element made for the first time in the 1940s, named after the place of its discovery is? A: Americium
Q: What handicraft takes its name from the French word for hook? A: Crochet
Q: The significant ancient Egyptian diety Horus (a man with a falcon's head) features the related '(What?) of Horus' symbol of protection/good health? A: Eye
Q: What creature associated with crying is named from Greek 'worm of the stones'? A: Crocodile
Q: The Austrian Nazi/SS member and engineer whose creations included the VW Beetle, Tiger/Panzer tanks, V1 flying bomb, and a car company which bears his name is Ferdinand (Who?)? A: Porsche
Q: What prefix makes respectively a place, a cheese, a cement, a part; and a case or set with the following? A: Port
Q: The fatty rump-end of a cooked fowl is called the 'Parson's (What?)'? A: Nose
Q: What's the state capital of Mississippi USA, originally Le Fleur's Bluff, later named after a US president? A: Jackson
Q: The word eviscerate means to? A: Disembowel
Q: What is the line on a weather chart which joins points of equal pressure? A: Isobar
Q: What colour of a single rainbow is on the inside of the rainbow's arc, given the generally defined seven-colour rainbow? A: Violet
Q: Who invented the mercury thermometer? Daniel Gabriel A: Farenheit
Q: What common term refers to the amount of water vapour that is held in the air? A: Humidity
Q: What shipping forecast area lies immediately South of Forties off the British Isles? A: Dogger
Q: What common term refers to the movement of air from a high pressure to a low pressure zone? A: Wind
Q: What is the circulating Atlantic ocean current which warms Western Europe? A: The Gulf Stream
Q: What's the more exotic name of the 'Northern Lights' visible under certain conditions in the Northern Hemisphere night sky? A: Aurora Borealis
Q: What is the childlike name given to the significant weather activity linked to sea temperature rise in the Pacific Ocean? A: El Nino
Q: What is the unit of measurement of wind speed? A: Knot
Q: What is the 'ology' term for the study or science of the weather (that's short-term weather systems and effects, not long-term climatology)? A: Meteorology
Q: Towards which direction (North, East, South or West) is a rainbow normally seen in the afternoon? A: East
Q: What cloud term means 'sheet' or 'sheetlike' or 'layer'? A: Stratus
Q: (Aside from a back and a front) how many sides or points does every snowflake have? A: Six
Q: The 'Inter-tropical Convergence Zone', where the trade winds meet near the equator to produce a band of relatively very still air, which can strand sailing ships, is known more prosaically as what? A: The Doldrums
Q: What type of cloud is normally associated with thunderstorms? A: Cumulonimbus
Q: What number does 'storm' equate to on the Beaufort Scale of wind force? A: 10
Q: What is a French street that means regret In English? A: Rue
Q: In 2015 Prague city regulated what increasing risk to pedestrians/traffic? A: Segways
Q: In 2014, age 17, Malala Yousafzai became the youngest winner of? A: A Nobel Prize
Q: In 2015 Brighton became the first UK city to introduce a voluntary tax for food/drink outlets on? A: Sugar
Q: The mountain town of Berchtesgaden is the location of whose fortified retreat? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Anne Hathaway was the girlfriend of? A: Shakespeare
Q: In Scotland a bothy/bothie is a? A: House
Q: Narendra Modi is a 21stC Prime Minister of? A: India
Q: Latin 'Juglans' refers to what tree used in cabinet-making, with large two-sided nuts inside green fruit? A: Walnut
Q: In 2015, to reduce road traffic accidents, Dartmoor Cornwall UK authorities tested reflective paint on? A: Ponies
Q: 'Isolation' is a technical term referring to independent control of a body-part in? A: Dancing
Q: Zarathustra, also called Zoroaster, is a Persian? A: Prophet
Q: Caroline/Gothic, Humanist, Round, and Bastarda, are styles, called 'hands', in medieval? A: Calligraphy
Q: The never-used internet top-level domain '.dd' was for which nation? A: East Germany
Q: The predicted online connectivity of 50 billion smart gadgets by 2020 is called The Internet of? A: Things
Q: The rotator cuff is a tough sheath of tendons and ligaments which supports the human? A: Shoulder
Q: The 'latte' coffee drink means in original Italian? A: Milk
Q: ZrO2 is the formula for what diamond substitute? A: Zirconia
Q: In Australia and New Zealand a charity shop or thrift store is also known as a (What?) shop? A: Opportunity
Q: What organization was revealed in Sep 2015 to have exposed itself to $billions in fines by cheating tests for nitrogen oxide emissions? A: VW
Q: In 2015 Nasa discovered on the surface of Mars? A: Flowing water
Q: The prefix zetta denotes a quantity of 10 to the power of? A: 21
Q: What popular 20thC movie franchise predicted life and technology at 21 Oct 2015? A: Back to the Future
Q: Oyster, Portobello, Button, Chestnut and Flat are varieties of what? A: Mushrooms
Q: Misheard/called 'Pizza Marines' when founded in 1965 and renamed in 1968, what restaurant chain claims most outlets globally (since 2011)? A: Subway
Q: A standard guitar commonly has fretboard markers for the octave (ie half string length) at what fret? A: 12th
Q: Technically called the masseter, what is the common name of the human muscle able to exert the most force? A: Jaw
Q: What currency is abbreviated to SAR, and contains 100 Halalas and 20 Qirsh? A: Saudi Riyal
Q: Name the town in the city district of Milan which gave its name to a famously strong blue-veined cow's-milk cheese? A: Gorgonzola
Q: What is the common name for the inflammatory arthritis called podagra when frequently affecting the big toe joint? A: Gout
Q: Obelix and Dogmatix are companions of which eponymous Frenco-Belgian comic book character? A: Asterix
Q: In 2015 Volvo developed an automatic detection/braking system for what in its Australian cars? A: Kangaroos
Q: The Baden Aniline and Soda Factory is more commonly known as what world-leading brand? A: BASF
Q: Spelter is an old/industrial term for what metal element, and alloys containing it, notably brass? A: Zinc
Q: Stapedius, Trapezius, Gluteus Maximus, Sartorius, and Subclavius are? A: Human muscles
Q: Chlorophyll/chlorophyl, critical for photosynthesis enabling plants to absorb energy from light, is a pigment of? A: Green
Q: What food means metaphorically typical/ordinary/day-to-day, especially one's work? A: Bread and butter
Q: The terms boobook, morepork and mopoke all refer onomatopoeically to a small Australasian? A: Owl
Q: Braeburn, Jazz, Gala, and Fuji are varieties of what? A: Apple
Q: In 2015 a joint Turkish/Greek Cyrpiot campaign sought PDO (Protected Designation of Origin) for what national cheese? A: Halloumi
Q: What element was removed from soft solders used to join metal parts/electrical connections, since c.2006? A: Lead
Q: What restored Rome feature appeared in movie La Docle Vita and receives c.3,000 Euro coins every day? A: The Trevi Fountain
Q: Brahmanism, or Vedism, is a religion emerging around 900BC in? A: India
Q: The 1927 animated character Oswald the Lucky Rabbit is considered the precurser to which more famous icon? A: Micky Mouse
Q: Kolkata Metro is what nation's famous first metro/underground railway network? A: India
Q: London's black taxi-cab training is called 'The (What?)'? A: Knowledge
Q: The infinity symbol is a sideways number? A: 8
Q: Since Ancient Rome, lime mortar (masonry cement) includes for reinforcement/moisture flexibility? A: Horse hair
Q: 'Hunt-and-Peck' is a metaphorical reference to single-fingered? A: Typing
Q: Latin/anotomical 'Pes', what part of the body contains the talus and calcaneus bones? A: Foot
Q: "Name the popular 1970s Kenner Products' 15"" toy body-builder figure of latex rubber filled with corn syrup, elastic to c.five feet?" A: Stretch Armstrong
Q: India's 'Mountain of Light' group of prominent people sued Queen Elizabeth II in 2015 for the repatriation to India of the? A: Koh-i-Noor diamond
Q: Kosher refers to food and food preparation laws for? A: Jews
Q: A cezve is typically used for heating/processing? A: Turkish coffee
Q: In chemistry what element is always present in an amalgam? A: Mercury
Q: The sequence JFM - AMJ - JAS - (???) is completed by? A: OND
Q: Zome, K'Nex, Erector Set, Lincoln Logs and Kre-O are/were major brands in which consumer product sector? A: Construction Toys
Q: Willy Loman is the lead character in Arthur Miller's famous 1949 play 'Death of a (What?)'? A: Salesman
Q: The South American 'Feve Tonka' vanilla-like spice popularized in French cuisine is a? A: Bean
Q: Author/entrepreneur Cynthia Payne (1933-2015) famously provided what personal service for men of status/authority in 1980s London? A: Brothel
Q: Named after its town of origin, Marsala fortified wine originated on which island, the largest of its surrounding sea? A: Sicily
Q: What is a kick, a cut, a horse, and uninspiring journalist? A: Hack
Q: The old Anglicized-French occupational word 'colporteur' was a distributor of? A: Bibles
Q: The technique known as 'Beurre manié' is used in? A: Cooking
Q: Aquae Sulis is the Roman name for what aptly renamed English spa city? A: Bath
Q: The human Frenulum Linguae is webbed tissue between? A: Tongue/Mouth-floor
Q: A Muscovite refers to a native of where in the world? A: Moscow
Q: What is a third of a half? A: A sixth
Q: Sage, thyme, rosemary, and marjoram are members of the plant genus? A: Mint
Q: The Great Wall of China generally runs? A: East-to-West
Q: In Shakespeare's Richard III, King Richard's horse (killed prior to Richard's plea 'My kingdom for a horse') is called? A: Surrey
Q: A prebiotic induces growth in humans (and other living hosts) of beneficial? A: Fungi/bacteria
Q: 101325 Pa (Pascal) or 1.01325 bar is the regulation standard/unit for? A: Atmospheric pressure
Q: What eponymous brand, founded1946, re-established Paris as world-centre of women's fashion? A: Dior
Q: The CAC40 is a main stock market index of? A: France
Q: Thermae and Balneae are Ancient Roman large and small facilities for? A: Bathing
Q: What famous French endurance motor racing track/city is named after the early inhabiting Cenomani Celtic people? A: Le Mans
Q: Horace Walpole created a popular term for unexpected lucky events/discovery in his 1754 fairy story 'The Three Princes of (Where?)'? A: Serendip
Q: A term for a dark shape against a brighter background is named after 18th century French author/politician Etienne de (Who?) ? A: Silhouette
Q: The 'twi' in the word twilight meant originally? A: Two
Q: Amethyst is a variety of? A: Quartz
Q: A little appreciated, very common human characteristic is the spilt or separated (technically 'accessory')? A: Fifth toenail
Q: Bammy (Jamaica), Bannock (Scotland), Blaa (Ireland), Bublik (Poland), and Boule (France) are types of? A: Bread
Q: What word for fearful wonderment oddly loses its 'e' when prefixing 'ful' but keeps it when prefixing 'some' and 'struck'? A: Awe
Q: What word features in stonemasonry, cabinet-making and carpentry; and strategies to combat stress? A: Coping
Q: Research (Newcastle University 2015) suggests that Type-2 diabetes is reversible by a very small reduction of fat in the human? A: Pancreas
Q: The Cuban/Puerto Rican music/dance 'Salsa' means what in Spanish? A: Sauce
Q: What affectionate word is a Blackadder TV character and famous English sea rescue heroine? A: Darling
Q: What discipline contains 'asanas' including names such as Half boat, Full boat, Tree, and Happy Baby? A: Yoga
Q: The cube root of 343 is? A: 7
Q: The Almeria region, driest in Europe, used for filming many famous Cowboy/Western films, is in? A: Spain
Q: French lawyer Jules Rimet (1873-1956) became the longest serving president (1921-54) of? A: FIFA
Q: The Forth Road Bridge connects which major city to the 'Kingdom of Fife'? A: Edinburgh
Q: In 2015 Kuala Lumpar Airport advertised unclaimed property (requiring collection in 14 days to avoid disposal) of three? A: Jumbo Jets
Q: Which one of these is not a member of the same Mustelidae mammal family as the others? A: Fox
Q: The American term 'sharecropper' refers to a? A: Tenant farmer
Q: Ares, equating to the Roman god Mars, is the Greek god of? A: War
Q: Lisa Gherardini (aka Lisa del Giocondo) is better known as the? A: Mona Lisa
Q: What legendary ruler visited King Solomon in the Bible, and became a metaphoric/ironic term for a female with delusions of grandeur? A: The Queen of Sheba
Q: In China in 2015 the record for the longest mating session between two giant pandas was broken at? A: 18 minutes
Q: The Frey Bentos factory of which nation was given UNESCO World Heritage status July 2015? A: Uruguay
Q: Ford claimed to launch the first 'e-(What?)' at the 2015 Mobile World Congress Show? A: Bike
Q: A 2015 intensive listening study discovered that giraffes actually? A: Hum
Q: Jay Z and Beyonce launched a music streaming service in 2015 called? A: Tidal
Q: At auction in 2015, $1.2m was paid for Don McLean's original handrwitten lyrics for which 1971 big hit song? A: American Pie
Q: In 2015 what global contest ruled against the use of swimsuits for its 114 competitors, for the first time since 1951 inception? A: Miss World
Q: The 'Save the Children' charity admitted in 2015 it mistakenly awarded which controversial politician a Global Legacy award? A: Tony Blair
Q: An official investigation as to proof of the US moon landings was demanded in 2015 by? A: Russia
Q: The 2015 Epsom Derby was won by Golden? A: Horn
Q: Name the ride which failed catastrophically at Alton Towers in 2015? A: Smiler
Q: Philae, the spaceprobe thought dead/lost until it recommunicated with controllers in 2015 is on? A: Comet 67P
Q: Which vast tech corporation opened its first 'Nest' branded intelligent home store in Palo Alto California in 2015? A: Google
Q: Who stepped down as chief of 21st Century Fox in 2015? A: Rupert Murdoch
Q: In 2015 a new North Korean schools curriculum reportedly included that leader Kim Jong-un learnt to drive age? A: 3
Q: Which car company launched the Avensis model in 2015? A: Toyota
Q: In 2015 evidence of water was found on? A: Mars
Q: Which 'BRIC' country launched the Astrosat space lab in 2015? A: India
Q: In 2015 Fiji decided to remove what historical feature from its national flag? A: The Union Jack
Q: In 2015 which footballer became the highest scorer for the England national team? A: Wayne Rooney
Q: What company launched the S6 Edge smartphone? A: Samsung
Q: 'Dismaland' was the temporary theme park/exhibition of which famous 'anonymous' artist? A: Banksy
Q: In 2015 the World Anti-Doping Agency suggested banning which nation from the 2016 Olympics? A: Russia
Q: Name the Princess born 4th in succession to the British throne in 2015, to Britain's Duke and Duchess of Cambridge? A: Charlotte
Q: The Magna Carta, signed in London, and inspiring constitutional rights globally thereafter, was how many years old in 2015? A: 800
Q: In 2015 the Sinabug volcano erupted in? A: Indonesia
Q: Olav Bjortmont became 2015 world champion in? A: Quizzing
Q: Lars Lokke led his centre-right party to 2015 government election victory in? A: Denmark
Q: Blackberry's new phone for 2015 was called the? A: Priv
Q: Eddie Jones was appointed head coach of which English sporting team in 2015? A: Rugby Union
Q: In 2015 which Arsenal footballer became the first ever to score hat-tricks in the Premier League, La Liga and Serie A? A: Alexis Sanchez
Q: Who unexpectedly beat Vlamdir Klitchscko in 2015? A: Tyson Fury
Q: Jon Snow was killed off in what series in 2015, adapted from GRR Martin's 'A Song of Ice and Fire'? A: Game of Thrones
Q: In a 2015 biography, who was accused of a bizarre initiation ceremony while a student Oxford University? A: David Cameron
Q: Finance minister Yanis Yaroufakis caused comment for not wearing a tie in February 2015 when negotiating the debts for which nation? A: Greece
Q: What nation hosted the 2015 Women's World (soccer) Cup? A: Canada
Q: What iconic equine-alluding company, in countless books/films/cowboy holsters, filed for bankruptcy in 2015? A: Colt
Q: Due to a 2015 contamination scandal in India/Afica, which corporation destroyed 400 million packets of Maggi noodles? A: Nestle
Q: Who was announced in 2015 as Jeremy Clarkson's replacement on BBC's popular TV show Top Gear? A: Chris Evans
Q: How many years old was the McDonalds fast food company in 2015? A: 60
Q: What famous horror film actor - especially for playing Dracula - died age 93 in 2015? A: Christopher Lee
Q: For its 2015 USA launch, roasted malt replaced caramel for colour in the 1927 British specification for? A: Newcastle Brown Ale
Q: In the 2015 movie 'The Lady in the Van' was longstanding occupant of which English playwright's front drive? A: Alan Bennett
Q: What is the year 2015 in Roman numerals? A: MMXV
Q: Who won the men's World Ice Hockey Championship in 2015? A: Canada
Q: The space transport company launched in 2015 by Jeff Bezos is called? A: Blue Origin
Q: The shortest ever entry in the history of what competition came from Finland in 2015? A: Eurovision Song Contest
Q: Published in 2015, Go Set a Watchman, written before her only prior and enduringly popular book of 1960, was written by whom? A: Harper Lee
Q: Whose 2015 album is 'Purpose'? A: Justin Bieber
Q: The 2015 Tour de France began in? A: The Netherlands
Q: Which company suffered a major scandal in 2015 for widescale unethical 'inertia' charging for its 'Prime' service? A: Amazon
Q: Peter Robinson announced in 2015 he would step down as First Minister of? A: Northern Ireland
Q: Whose controversial US presidential campaigning greatly increased his popularity within his party in 2015, yet increased party fears that it would unelectable should he lead it? A: Donald Trump
Q: A 2015 study found that what percentage of former American Football players had degenerative brain damage? A: 96%
Q: In 2015 Ronda Rousey lost to Holly Holm in what brutal sporting discipline? A: UFC
Q: What dating app caused problems for itself in 2015 when increasing its charges? A: Tinder
Q: In 2015 the first ever colour/color photographs were obtained of which celestial body? A: Pluto
Q: Which country won the 2015 Davis Cup (world team tennis)? A: Great Britain
Q: Brazil began to nationalise its (What?) in 2015? A: Rainforest
Q: Oxford University Press/Dictionaries announced what (most popularly used emoji icon) 'word of the year 2015'? A: Face with Tears of Joy
Q: The movie Toy Story was how many years old in 2015? A: 20
Q: Whose family received $7.4m royalties from Pharrell Williams/Robin Thicke after a legal claim in 2015 for illicit use of the song Got to Give it Up? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: Lord Coe ceased working for which brand in 2015 due to conflict of interest? A: Nike
Q: Helmut Schmidt, who died in 2015, once led which nation? A: West Germany
Q: On what sprung mechanism did Bristolian Jack Sexty break the world record in 2015 achieving 88,047 bounces in 10hrs 21mins? A: Pogo stick
Q: Which country has the shortest coastline? A: Monaco
Q: What famous saying, representing a deranged and directionless group of people, has been interpreted in creative works by Hieronymus Bosch, Katherine Anne Porter, Erasure, The Grateful Dead, and Bob Seger, among others? A: Ship of Fools
Q: Kim Campbell was the first woman prime minister of which country? A: Canada
Q: What is the French meaning of 'Marmite'? A: Cooking pot
Q: In architecture, cartouche is a decorative feature resembling what? A: A scroll
Q: According to his memoirs, what famous Venetian adventurer was once imprisoned as a magician, a director of the Paris state lotteries, knighted in the Netherlands, a spy for Louis XV, and a librarian in Bohemia? A: Casanova
Q: What is the name of the street in London famous for its tailors shops? A: Savile Row
Q: Who was the 'father of medicine' to whom a code of medical ethics is attributed and which bears his name? A: Hippocrates
Q: What shape is farfalle pasta? A: Bow tie
Q: What city did Charles II of England sell to France in 1662 for £40,000? A: Dunkirk
Q: From which creatures can Newcastle disease transfer to humans, causing mild conjunctivitis and flu symptoms? A: Birds
Q: What household gadget did Melville R Bissell invent 1876? A: Carpet sweeper
Q: British Landrace, Pietrain and Tamworth are what sort of animals? A: Pigs
Q: Lee Kuan Yew became the first officially elected prime minister of which country in 1959? A: Singapore
Q: Who was rumoured to to have had his first wife Amy Robsart poisoned, in the hope of marrying Queen Elizabeth the First? A: Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester
Q: A Salchow (usually pronounced 'salco' or 'salcov') is a jump in which sport? A: Figure skating
Q: Of Albanian descent, by what name is 1979 Nobel Prizewinner Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu better known? A: Mother Teresa
Q: Mjosa (more precisely Mjøsa) is the largest lake of which country? A: Norway
Q: How would 'good day' normally be said in Japanese? A: Konnichi wa
Q: What is the highest volcano in Africa? A: Kilimanjaro
Q: The German Deutschmark was comprised of one hundred what? A: Pfennig
Q: 'Atoms for Peace', formed in 1957, is now known as what? A: The International Atomic Energy Agency
Q: The traditional biathlon most commonly (for example at the Olympics) consists of which two sports? A: Skiing and shooting
Q: The word deltiologist, derived from the Greek 'deltos' meaning writing-tablet, refers to a collector of what? A: Postcards
Q: Which tragic figure of Greek mythology became the King of Thebes after solving the Sphinx's riddle to guess what walks on four legs in the morning, two in the afternoon and three in the evening? A: Oedipus
Q: How many cathedrals are in mainland UK (at early 2000s)? A: 42
Q: What instant messaging service was acquired in 2014 for $16bn by Facebook? A: Whatsapp
Q: The main character in the movie The Nightmare Before Christmas is? A: Jack Skellington
Q: American Linus Pauling, 1954 Nobel Prizewinner, conceived a helical structure fundamental to? A: DNA
Q: What spooky TV series was originally titled 'Too Much', and had a nicknamed character whose fictional 'real name' was Norville Rogers? A: Scooby-Doo
Q: The fictional character Norville Rogers is better known by the nickname? A: Shaggy
Q: What were Victorian English postmen called because of their uniforms? A: Robins
Q: In human childbirth cervical dilation is considered complete at how many centimetres? A: 10cms
Q: Numerology refers to what aspect of numbers? A: Mystical
Q: The popular geeky children's TV series about an anthropomorphic aardvark whose theme song was sung by Ziggy Marley is? A: Arthur
Q: Erlang (after Danish engineer Agner Erlang and/or a portmanteau of 'Ericsson Language') is used for? A: Computer programming
Q: The long-standing currency of Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania (at early 2000s) is the? A: Shilling
Q: Dragonflies have the sharpest vision of any insect, each compound eye having how many lenses? A: 30,000
Q: Drug corporation Reckitt Benckiser was found guilty of marketing false 'variations' and inflated pricing of what identical product? Paracetamol; Nurofen; Anadin; or Ibuprofen? A: Nurofen
Q: Human urine passes from each kidney via the ureter to (What?) next? A: Bladder
Q: In the USA a reindeer is also known as a? A: Caribou
Q: A broiler is a chicken raised for? A: Eating
Q: The brunch dish of poached eggs, muffins, bacon/ham and hollandaise sauce, popularized in New York City is 'Eggs...? A: Benedict
Q: The 2015 Star Wars sequel is subtitled 'The Force...' ? A: Awakens
Q: The most common human bloodgroup is? A: O
Q: Fish are typically referred to as being (What?)-blooded? A: Cold
Q: A rock containing a mineral that can be viably extracted for use is called an? A: Ore
Q: The most poisonous fungi, which usually kills anyone eating it, is the? A: Destroying Angel
Q: What is a ninth divided by a third? A: A third
Q: What is the English equivalent/interpretation of the Russian term, commonly abbreviated, 'Rochnoy Protivotankovy Granatomyot'? A: Rocket Propelled Grenade
Q: When moving a cat to a new home, it is popularly and mythically believed that rubbing (What?) on its paws will stop it wandering away? A: Butter
Q: A dessicant is a hygroscopic substance used to produce (What?) in its vicinity? A: Dryness
Q: The Ancient Egyptian mummy/afterlife figure Anubis is typically half-man and half-? A: Dog
Q: A postulant seeks qualification to practice in? A: Religion
Q: Founded in 1966, the US company Vans originally and most famously makes? A: Footwear
Q: New Year's Day (Gregorian international standard calendar) in the year 2017 is a? A: Sunday
Q: What creatures were first to live on land and fly? A: Insects
Q: The human body's energy chemical is? A: Glucose
Q: Tundra regions of the world are typically defined as having no? A: Trees
Q: Who created the 1970s persona Thin White Duke, and subsequent brands Glass Spider and Tin Machine? A: David Bowie
Q: The Solanum Pseudocapsicum plant, called winter cherry and Jerusalem cherry, is noted for being very? A: Poisonous
Q: What was the Russian city of Stalingrad renamed in 1961, after Europe's longest river? A: Volgograd
Q: Chinese Emperor Jing Di's 141BC tomb revealed in 2015 the early use of? A: Tea leaves
Q: "The famous Ancient Roman marble statue 'Venus Callipyge' or 'Callipygian Venus' literally and artistically represents ""Venus/Aphrodite of the beautiful...""?" A: Buttocks
Q: What Anglicized-French word referring to prestige derives from the verb to press? A: Cachet
Q: What is three-eighths divided by a half? A: Three-quarters
Q: Best-selling Japanese author Marie Kondo refers to Japanese 'Tokimeku' ('spark joy' - literally palpitate) in the life-changing 'KonMari' method of? A: Decluttering
Q: Besides humans, the most widely distributed mammals on Earth are? A: Whales
Q: Who controversially interviewed the on-the-run Mexican drug lord 'El Chapo' Guzman for Rolling Stone Magazine just before his 2015 capture? A: Sean Penn
Q: What sort of sea creatures are fulmars and petrels? A: Birds
Q: Vaquita porpoise 'maw', an illegally trafficked delicacy in Chinese cuisine, priced upwards of $10,000/kilo, is the creature's? A: Swim bladder
Q: At 2015 how many people owned as much as the poorest half of the world's population (ie over 3billion people)? A: 62
Q: What autonomous country within the Kingdom of Denmark has the Internet Top-Level Domain of .gl? A: Greenland
Q: What ancient Greek's name is given to the professional/ethical oath of medical doctors? A: Hippocrates
Q: What element (Au) commonly prefixes to the following? A: Gold
Q: The German surname and name-suffix Baum referred to living near or resembling a? A: Tree
Q: What creature's name is from Greek 'river horse'? A: Hippopotamus
Q: What orange spice/colouring comes from the crocus plant, often associated with rice? A: Saffron
Q: Theseus, Hyppolyta, Nick Bottom, and Oberon the King of the Fairies are in Shakespeare's play? A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: The human gastrocolic reflex typically prompts someone to visit the? A: Toilet
Q: Wikipedia's spherical logo features what symbol for Greek W, also a fatty acid name? A: Omega
Q: What hugely popular cereal crop has varieties including Arborio (Italy), Ambemohar (India), Doongara (Australia), and Uruchimai (Japan)? A: Rice
Q: What word is a flat-bottom boat, a football kick, a glassmaking tool, and a dented base of a wine bottle? A: Punt
Q: Turkish Van, Chartreux, Scottish Fold and Ragdoll are types of? A: Cats
Q: What popular orange-coloured citrus fruit is surprisingly a hybrid of the pomelo (25%) and mandarin (75%)? A: Orange
Q: Undiscovered for 100 years and published 2016, 'The Tale of Kitty-In-Boots' was written by? A: Beatrix Potter
Q: At 2015 the biggest cause of death among UK men under 50 is? A: Suicide
Q: Whose 'heroic' performance at the German Reichstag in 1987 is considered a catalyst for the fall of the Berlin Wall 1989/90? A: David Bowie
Q: The UK state-subsidised 'e-Voke' is a hi-tech reduced risk alternative for? A: Cigarettes
Q: The US 1899-founded Gideons International organization is famous for distributing to 200 countries free? A: Bibles
Q: Considered the oldest living land animal at 183yrs in 2016, on St Helena island, Sth Atlantic, Jonathan is a Seychelles Giant? A: Tortoise
Q: Rochambo/Rochambeau is better known as (What?), typically used to decide a tie, or determine an order between competitors? A: Rock paper scissors
Q: Which one of these is not a founding member of the European Union, nor has ever been a member (at 2016)? A: Norway
Q: A slot/fruit machine was originally known as a One-Armed? A: Bandit
Q: The modern confection originally from Ancient Egypt and the Malva plant which gave the French word mauve is? A: Marshmallow
Q: Hex/Allen, Slot, Cross, and Phillips are types of? A: Screw-drives
Q: Name the famous naval base and natural port on Oahu island, Hawaii, which featured in the US entry to World War II? A: Pearl Harbor
Q: The classical composers Bach, Brahms, Handel, Strauss, and Schumann are all? A: German
Q: Quiche Lorraine traditionally contains lardons, which are pieces of? A: Pork fat
Q: Which of one these does not feature in lists of the most common UK pub names in recent times? A: Princess Diana
Q: Philadelphia, Cheddar, Feta, and Paneer are all? A: Cheeses
Q: From Latin 'sapo', saponification is a process of producing? A: Soap
Q: Zika disease, identified 1947 and epidemic in S America commencing 2015, is mainly transmitted by infected? A: Mosquitoes
Q: Alphabet became in 2015 the holding company of which vast tech corporation? A: Google
Q: IHOP refers to which N American-based fast-food chain? A: International House of Pancakes
Q: What term, originally and still associated with bread, refers to products made in sets and computer files containing several instructions? A: Batch
Q: Barbara Millicent Roberts (1959 - present) from Willows Wisconsin is better known as what iconic figure? A: Barbie
Q: According to DC Comics history, 'Nightwing' when younger was? A: Robin
Q: The fitness corporations Fitbit and Fitbug, subject of legal actions 2013-16, pioneered? A: Wearable technology
Q: Diacritical marks are symbols for guiding/indicating? A: Pronunciation
Q: A quarter multiplied by a third is a? A: Twelfth
Q: Isaac Asimov, Robert A Heinlein, and Arthur C Clarke are famous writers of? A: Science-Fiction
Q: Plankton (including jellyfish, algae, krill) is named from Greek 'planktos', which refers to its defining feature? A: Drifter
Q: Which one of these cheeses is not from and named after a Dutch city/place? A: Emmental
Q: The planet Jupiter has how many known moons? A: Sixty-seven
Q: Barber, Debussy, Glass and Holst are? A: Composers
Q: The area of a right-angled isosceles triangle whose two short sides are 4cms each is how many square cms? A: 8
Q: Marfona, Charlotte, Jersey, and Desiree are? A: Potato varieties
Q: Mach 1 refers to the speed of? A: Sound
Q: A subaltern is an old word for an? A: Army officer
Q: Which one of these is not among the three most common gases of the Earth's atmosphere, instead being the most abundant chemical in the Universe? A: Hydrogen
Q: The hook symbol joined under a letter (e.g., to the letter C, to soften the sound) is a? A: Cedilla
Q: Bloodhound, Bluebird, Koenigsegg, and Thrust are? A: Fast cars
Q: How many people (at early 2000s) have walked on the moon? A: 12
Q: The word succumb means to be? A: Overcome
Q: Tallow, Beeswax, Spermaceti, and Paraffin are traditionally used in making? A: Candles
Q: The famous self-styled anarchist web-hacking group founded in 2003 is called? A: Anonymous
Q: Name the controversial detention camp established in 2002 by the USA in Cuba? A: Guantanamo Bay
Q: Often suggested as an English national anthem, William Blake's 1804 poem set to Hubert Parry's music is? A: Jerusalem
Q: Fleckerl, Natural Turn, Chasse, and New York are? A: Dance steps
Q: Chesterfield, Ottoman, Tallboy, and Cheval are? A: Furniture
Q: Martini, Rossini, Mojito, and Sazerac are? A: Cocktails
Q: Clipper, Brigantine, Corvette, and Schooner are? A: Sailing ships
Q: Popocatepetl, Pico de Orizaba, and Iztaccihuatl are? A: Mexican volcanoes
Q: Mixing yellow and blue paint produces? A: Green
Q: The character Shylock appears in which Shakespeare play? A: The Merchant Of Venice
Q: Who released an album in 1999 called Brand New Day? A: Sting
Q: If a creature is edentulous what has it not got? A: Teeth
Q: What were the eldest sons of the Kings of France called? A: Dauphin
Q: What is the fourth sign of the Zodiac? A: Cancer
Q: What was Radar's surname in MASH? A: O'Reilly
Q: Excluding Australia and continental land masses what is the largest island in the world? A: Greenland
Q: Who was the founder of the Body Shop company? A: Anita Roddick
Q: In which year (or decade) were parking meters introduced in the UK? A: 1958
Q: Who wrote the novel Dracula? A: Bram Stoker
Q: What is a baby seal called? A: Pup
Q: What is the Shaftesbury Memorial Fountain more popularly known as? A: Eros
Q: What is the name of Don Quixote's horse? A: Rosinante
Q: During which war was the Battle of Marne? A: First World War
Q: In the human body what is Varicella commonly known as? A: Chicken Pox
Q: What is the name of the RAF's aerobatics team? A: The Red Arrows
Q: Which football club did Alan Sugar own? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: Who is the Roman Goddess of the hunt? A: Diana
Q: What type of creature is an alewife? A: Fish
Q: What is the metal or plastic end of a shoelace called? A: Aglet
Q: With which country did the UK have the long-running 'Cod War' disputes over fishing rights? A: Iceland
Q: Who was given the name 'Fourth Man' when he was revealed as a spy in 1979? A: Anthony Blunt
Q: How many years of marriage is celebrated on the Ivory anniversary? A: Fourteen
Q: What famous landmark was moulded in gold during a bullion robbery in the 1951 film The Lavender Hill Mob? A: The Eiffel Tower
Q: How many players are there in an Australian Rules football team (on the field at the same time)? A: Eighteen
Q: Who invented the elevator in 1853? A: Elisha Otis
Q: At which ski resort would you see the Cresta Run? A: St Moritz
Q: In which English county is Scotney Castle? A: Kent
Q: White Lion pubs are named after which English King's heraldic symbol? A: Edward the Fourth
Q: What is the mouthpiece of a recorder called? A: Fipple
Q: In which month is St Swithin's Day? A: July
Q: What every-day item was named after Mrs Gamp in Charles Dickens' Martin Chuzzlewit? A: Umbrella
Q: In what year did the USA adopt the Stars and Stripes flag? A: 1777
Q: The Aconcagua is the highest peak in which mountain range? A: Andes
Q: What of these sports bodies was founded first, the AAA, FA, MCC or IOC? A: MCC
Q: What was American silent film star 'Fatty' Arbuckle's first name? A: Roscoe
Q: The character Roger 'Race' Bannon appeared as a boy's bodyguard in which cartoon series? A: Jonny Quest
Q: Guru Nanak Dev founded which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: The Phoenix Park murders of 1882 took place in which city? A: Dublin
Q: Who designed the famous Sagrada Familia church in Barcelona? A: Gaudi
Q: Who was Henry VIII's third wife? A: Jane Seymour
Q: From which seeds is tahini made? A: Sesame
Q: What is the human ailment epistaxis better known as? A: Nosebleed
Q: The Kariba Dam is on which river? A: Zambezi
Q: What does an oologist collect? A: Birds' eggs
Q: The Neanderthal Museum is in which country? A: Germany
Q: In British history a Cavalier was a supporter of which king? A: Charles I
Q: Leporine relates to which animal? A: Hare
Q: In Greek mythology who was Apollo's twin sister? A: Artemis
Q: Assassinated in 1965, who was Malcolm Little better known as? A: Malcolm X
Q: By what name was Dutch dancer Margarethe Zelle better known? A: Mata Hari
Q: Which famous US lawman had brothers called Morgan and Virgil? A: Wyatt Earp
Q: What was the name of the cruise ship seized by hijackers in the Mediterranean in 1985? A: Achille Lauro
Q: In 1968 which US artist and film maker was shot and wounded by actress Valerie Solanas? A: Andy Warhol
Q: What is the capital of Croatia? A: Zagreb
Q: In 1902 the Treaty of Vereeniging brought which war to an end? A: The Second Boer War
Q: The original 'Wendy house' was built for which fictional character? A: Wendy Darling
Q: Convict Robert Franklin Stroud was better known as whom? A: The Birdman of Alcatraz
Q: What scientist and inventor was responsible for the Decibel unit of measurement? A: Alexander Graham Bell
Q: Which city is known as Auld Reekie and also Athens of the North? A: Edinburgh
Q: The French slang 'capote anglaise' meaning English hood, or English overcoat refers to what? A: A condom
Q: Maris Piper is a variety of which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: An epithalamium is a song or poem celebrating what? A: Marriage
Q: Which is the lightest element? A: Hydrogen
Q: Dame Peggy Ashcroft won an Oscar for her role in which 1984 film? A: A Passage to India
Q: In 1865 what significant event happened at Ford's Theatre in Washington DC? A: Abraham Lincoln's assassination
Q: Who painted The Blue Boy in 1779? A: Thomas Gainsborough
Q: Who wrote the poem Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard? A: Thomas Gray
Q: Little Big Horn, the scene of Custer's last stand, is in which US state? A: Montana
Q: Who was Britain's first Labour prime minister? A: Ramsey MacDonald
Q: Abraham Maslow's original 'Hierarchy of Needs' theory comprises how many stages? A: Five
Q: Maslow's 'Hierarchy of Needs' theory is commonly represented as a? A: Pyramid
Q: Which one of these is not a main heading 'need' within the Maslow 'Hierarchy of Needs' theory? A: Money
Q: Abraham Maslow's seminal book introducing the 'Hierearchy of Needs' is called? A: Motivation and Personality
Q: Which one of these does not appear in Maslow's 'Esteem' category of needs? A: Marriage
Q: Which one of these does not appear in Maslow's 'Biological & Physiological' category of needs? A: Money
Q: Which one of these does not appear in Maslow's 'Belongingness and Love' category of needs? A: Punishment
Q: The highest-order need added/interpreted/implied within Maslow's 'Hierarchy of Needs' is? A: Transcendence
Q: The Latin prefix 'dino' (as in dinosaur) means? A: Terrible
Q: Approximately how much Francium (the rarest metal on the planet) exists on Earth? A: Less than an ounce
Q: Argan oil, chiefly from Morocco, used in cooking and cosmetics, is extracted from a? A: Tree nut
Q: Mocha is coffee with added? A: Chocolate
Q: The area of a circle with a radius of 56.5cms is approximately how many square metres? A: 1
Q: Italian clothier Emilio Ceccato redesigned/provided the traditional striped shirts in 2016 for? A: Venice's gondoliers
Q: The dermis and cutis are parts of the human? A: Skin
Q: The largest theme park in Europe, subject to approval 2016, is planned by Paramount in? A: Dartford
Q: The standard spoken English accent of the UK, abbreviated to 'RP', traditionally used by BBC newsreaders, the Royal Family and 'upper class' is fully called '(What?) Pronunciation'? A: Received
Q: Volvic, Evian, Perrier and San Pellegrino are famous brands of? A: Bottled water
Q: The Arabic word 'al' (AL) roughly translates in English to mean? A: The
Q: What is a pullover, a New US state, a UK channel island and knitted fabric first produced there? A: Jersey
Q: What once world-leading social networking website was bought by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation for $580m in 2005, and sold to Specific Media Group and Justin Timberlake for $35m in 2011? A: Myspace
Q: Pranayama refers generally to what aspect of yoga? A: Breathing
Q: A 'short corner' or 'penalty corner' features in? A: Field hockey
Q: Radioactive decay of naturally occurring Uranium eventually concludes as? A: Lead
Q: Jana Gana Mana is, since 1950, the national anthem of? A: India
Q: What single digit whole number is the cube root of 64? A: 4
Q: The internationally significant UK organizations PRS and PPL which merged in 2016 operate in which sector? A: Music
Q: The saying which alludes to a character in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and to the intoxicating effects of a trade glue is 'Mad as a (What?)'? A: Hatter
Q: The 13th century legend of Lady Godiva, riding naked on horseback in Coventry to save townsfolk from her husband's taxes, featured/originated the notion of a voyeur called 'Peeping (Who?)'? A: Tom
Q: When an entity/person disposes of significant assets, perhaps unwisely, to raise money, this is called 'Selling off the family (What?)? A: Silver
Q: Paper thickness is generally measured/shown as GSM (e.g., 80, 90, etc), standing for what? A: Grams per Square Metre
Q: St Andrews, Cypress Point, Augusta, and Muirfield are famous? A: Golf courses
Q: Butterfly, Trudgen, Back, Side, and Breast are? A: Swimming strokes
Q: The inventor/first trapeze artist (Paris 1859) who also originated the eponymously named clothing was Jules? A: Leotard
Q: Shakespeare's romantic tragedy written c1598 is called 'Much Ado about (What?)'? A: Nothing
Q: The Anglicized-Latin court term 'in camera' means proceedings are? A: In private
Q: Paramount and CBS Studios went to court in 2016 to enforce rights over what fictional language when the fan-funded Axanar company sought to produce a prequel to a popular 1966-founded franchise set originally in the 23rd century? A: Klingon
Q: 'Pulse fishing' - an increasingly common modern alternative to deep sea beam-trawling - uses? A: Electric shocks
Q: The web 'error' code 404 means? A: Not found
Q: A famous sports car named after Argentina's hot dusty North wind, is the? A: Zonda
Q: A ship/plane's side-to-side turning movement is called? A: Yaw
Q: On a QWERTY keyboard the backslash (\) shares the key with the? A: Vertical bar
Q: What metal has the lowest boiling point? A: Mercury
Q: The photocopying technology called Xerography is named from Greek 'xero' meaning? A: Dry
Q: The 404 telephone dialling area code belongs to? A: Atlanta (Georgia USA)
Q: In 1852 American Elisha Graves Otis produced the first successful (eponymously branded) safety? A: Elevator
Q: What is 12.5% of 8? A: 1
Q: The 1940s originating term 'Latchkey child/kid' refers to a child who is often? A: Home alone
Q: An oubliette, which has a top opening for access, is a? A: Dungeon
Q: What is a musical note time value/symbol, a voice tremble, and a brand of cheese snacks? A: Quaver
Q: Ostler is an old occupational name for someone who looks after? A: Horses
Q: The famous bazouki instrumental dance music which speeds up is called Zorba the? A: Greek
Q: The Japanese 'chūkanabe' (Chinese pot) is known popularly in Western/Chinese culture as a? A: Wok
Q: The unstressed vowel sound 'uh' usually represented by 'a' or 'e' (in 'ago', and 'a cat' or 'open') is called a? A: Schwa
Q: According to the rainbow/light spectrum mnemonic (memory aid), Richard Of York Gave (What?) In Vain? A: Battle
Q: Formed 1950 and dissolved 1990, the Stasi was the secret police of? A: East Germany
Q: Sepals and Tepals are decorative protective elements of many old? A: Flowers
Q: What human organ makes four new words when prefixing Head, Diver, Flint and Tight? A: Skin
Q: Aurizon, VicTrack, Brookfield and John Holland are/were major railway operators of? A: Australia
Q: A plantar wart or myrmecia is better known as a? A: Veruca
Q: The Fountain of Neptune, Bologna, Italy, inspired which famous sports car logo? A: Maserati
Q: Pyongyang is the capital of which controversial nation? A: North Korea
Q: A popular old English idiom refers to a suspicious or dubious situation being? A: Fishy
Q: What common typographical symbol's name is taken from Greek 'little star'? A: Asterisk
Q: The iconic symbol of Kathmandu is in Nepal; Iraq; France; or the Lord of the Rings? A: Nepal
Q: Haemophilia is the human tendency for prolonged? A: Bleeding
Q: Teutonic generally historically refers to people of which characteristic? A: Germanic
Q: In the Russian alphabet and Cyrillic script the 'English' 3 symbol equates to? A: Z
Q: Flared trousers were originated in the early 1800s by? A: Sailors
Q: The Soviet Union dissolution of 1991 created how many independent states? A: 15
Q: A half divided by a sixth is? A: Three
Q: Where are found the Seas of Tranquility, Cleverness, Nectar, and Moisture? A: The Moon
Q: Pitcairn Islands, home to several 1790 'Mutiny on the Bounty' mutineers, are in the Southern? A: Pacific
Q: In a church a piscina is a? A: Basin
Q: Blepharoplasty refers to a common cosmetic surgery on? A: Eyelids
Q: Zephyr, Sirocco, Mistral, and Chinook are names of? A: Winds
Q: The most common material used in lightning protection is (What?) and its alloys? A: Copper
Q: The Poaceae or Gramineae family of organisms is better known as? A: Grasses
Q: The City of London financial district is known traditionally as The Square? A: Mile
Q: What in the world is at Zero Degrees Latitude and Zero Degrees Longitude? A: A weather observation buoy
Q: The first most popular book of seven from CS Lewis's The Chronicles of Narnia (1950-56) is The Lion, The Witch and the? A: Wardrobe
Q: Under normal Earth sea-level conditions water boils at how many degrees centigrade? A: 100
Q: The term 'histrionics', referring to excessive emotion, is Latin 'histrion', meaning? A: Actor
Q: A spoken error, considered perhaps more truthful than the intended word(s), is called a '(What?) slip'? A: Freudian
Q: Dr Seuss (Theodor Seuss Geisel), author of 'The Cat in the Hat' and 'Green Eggs and Ham', is most famous in what literary genre? A: Children's
Q: The name of which famous island borough, also a cocktail and Woody Allen film, derives from Lenape Native American Indian, land owners until Dutch settler acquisition, 1626? A: Manhattan
Q: The popular informal term for a circus is The Big? A: Top
Q: What is the diameter of the world in kilometres? A: 12,742
Q: From Latin meaning 'small room' what are the 'building blocks of life' and smallest units able to replicate independently? A: Cell
Q: Ptolemy (AD100-170), Roman/Egyptian, was a famous? A: Writer
Q: The central financial City of London is known as the (What?) Mile? A: Square
Q: The Gaelic-originating surname prefix Mac or Mc meant originally? A: Son
Q: Body language is also known as (What?), derived from Greek, meaning motion? A: Kinesics
Q: Body language is also generally called, and categorized within, what well-established term? A: Non-verbal communication
Q: Within body language the physical space/closeness between people is significant and called? A: Proxemics
Q: Who wrote 'The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals' in 1872, considered the start of body language science? A: Charles Darwin
Q: Physiognomy, related historically to body language, interprets human characteristics from a person's? A: Face
Q: Related to body language, Kinaesthetics (or Kinesthetics) is the study of? A: Learning Styles
Q: Related to body language, the communications/psychology concept NLP is called fully? A: Neuro-Linguistic Programming
Q: Author of the 1971 book 'Body Language', which helped popularize the subject, was Julius? A: Fast
Q: When a person touches his/her nose with finger(s) while talking, this generally indicates? A: Fabrication
Q: According to research, the perception and interpretation of body language is generally strongest in? A: Women
Q: When a person moves his/her eyes right, this generally indicates what sort of thinking/communication? A: Creative
Q: In the human body which gland secretes the hormone insulin? A: Pancreas
Q: The state of Nebraska was sold to the USA in 1803 by which country? A: France
Q: Carrageen is an edible variety of what? A: Seaweed
Q: Which English cathedral has 'The Clock with no Face'? A: Salisbury
Q: Who was the first woman to walk in space? A: Svetlana Savitskaya
Q: In which European town is the Menin Gate Memorial to missing British and Commonwealth soldiers? A: Ypres
Q: The Lowell Observatory is in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: Who was the president of Chile from 1974-90? A: Augusto Pinochet
Q: Who played the prison warden in the 1979 film Escape from Alcatraz? A: Patrick McGoohan
Q: Sounding like a placename, what is the traditional pronged spear used for catching Salmon called? A: Leister
Q: Who succeeded Michael Foot as leader of the Labour Party in the UK? A: Neil Kinnock
Q: Coopers Hill in Gloucestershire, England, is famous for which annual event? A: Cheese Rolling
Q: The Laughing Cavalier is a work by which painter? A: Frans Hals
Q: What type of rock is carbonado? A: Diamond
Q: What is limnophobia a fear of? A: Lakes
Q: Ribes Nigrum is the Latin name for which fruit? A: Blackcurrant
Q: In which US city was the 2006 Super Bowl held? A: Detroit
Q: In which country was fashion designer Rifat Ozbek born? A: Turkey
Q: In which city is the United Nations headquarters? A: New York
Q: Which famous US architect designed the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo in 1916? A: Frank Lloyd Wright
Q: W Somerset Maugham's novel The Moon and Sixpence is based on the life of which painter? A: Paul Gaugin
Q: How many international caps did English footballer Stanley Matthews (later Sir Stanley Matthews) win? A: Fifty-four
Q: Who became leader of the People's National Party in Jamaica in 1969? A: Michael Manley
Q: What is the fictional Scottish island setting of the 1973 film The Wicker Man? A: Summerisle
Q: Which famous Mormon church leader and educational pioneer died in Salt Lake City in 1877? A: Brigham Young
Q: Which US actress's real name is Mary Cathleen Collins? A: Bo Derek
Q: In which body of water are the Balearic Islands? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Who was hanged in Edinburgh in 1829 for multiple murder in supplying doctors with corpses for dissection? A: William Burke
Q: Mariolatry is the idolatrous worship of whom? A: The Virgin Mary
Q: "Who said in a radio broadcast in 1939, ""I cannot forecast to you the action of Russia"" ?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: What is Zurich's main river? A: Limmat
Q: What is the collective term for a group of woodpeckers? A: Descent
Q: What is the name of the Cambridge University College that was originally for women only? A: Girton
Q: Who was King of Egypt from 1936-52? A: Farouk
Q: The Cockney rhyming slang 'Bread', meaning money, is fully 'Bread and...' what? A: Honey
Q: De La Rue is a famous international maker of? A: Banknotes
Q: Letter, Legal, Executive, Ledger/Tabloid are N American? A: Paper sizes
Q: Due to water-saving laws, a siphon features uniquely in what UK equipment, (ie generally not in other nations)? A: Flushing toilets
Q: A 'backhoe' (or rear/back actor) is normally found on? A: Construction sites
Q: The 1950s Looney Tunes cartoon Mexican mouse and term for someone acting very quickly is? A: Gonzalez
Q: Pigs blood, fat, pearl barley, wheat, and oatmeal are ingredients of what recently proposed 'superfood'? A: Black pudding
Q: The legal validation of a will is called? A: Probate
Q: Tera, Peta, Exa, Zetta, Yotta are? A: Metric prefixes
Q: Czech Emil Zatopek (1922-2000) is a famously brilliant? A: Distance runner
Q: What is the 2015-originating portmanteau term referring to the UK leaving the EU? A: Brexit
Q: The German 'dachshund' means '(What?) dog'? A: Badger
Q: The human hormone Ghrelin (also called Lenomorelin) is known as the '(What?) hormone'? A: Hunger
Q: Panama disease destroys what crop? A: Bananas
Q: The UK billionaire called for Parliamentary questioning (2016) about his governance of the collapsed BHS company is Sir Philip? A: Green
Q: Professor Pat Pending, the Arkansas Chuggabug, and the Ant Hill Mob feature in which popular 1968-69 17-episode TV cartoon series? A: Wacky Races
Q: The logo on the famous Victorinox Swiss Army pocket knife is a (What?) in a shield? A: Cross
Q: The large 14-35inch elastic plastic exercise ball developed in 1963 by Aquilino Cosani, is called a (What?) ball? A: Swiss
Q: The salad condiment comprising oil and vinegar, often reddened with parika and tomato, popularized/produced first in the 1950s is '(What?) dressing'? A: French
Q: Which newspaper remains shunned in Liverpool UK due to its grossly false reporting of the 1989 Hillsborough disaster? A: The Sun
Q: An increasing human/animal health hazard in Europe is the 'Oak Processionary (What?)'? A: Caterpillar
Q: James Grieve, Blenheim Orange, Irish Peach, and Ashmead's Kernel are traditional varieties of? A: Apples
Q: A traditional Moroccan house with central atrium courtyard/garden is called a? A: Riad
Q: Junk, Trimaran, Pontoon, and Luzzu are types of? A: Boats
Q: Twelve three-hundredths (12/300) expresssed as a percentage is? A: 4%
Q: Sabot and saboton (from French, savate and botte) are respectively a box from which casino cards are dealt, and knight's armour, equating to a? A: Shoe
Q: The traditional pudding of strawberries, meringue and whipped cream is called? A: Eton Mess
Q: Who discovered gravity and proposed the Three Laws of Motion? A: Newton
Q: Clove hitch, Sheepshank, Figure eight, and Bowline are? A: Knots
Q: The Piolet d'Or is a major award by the French magazine Montagnes for? A: Mountaineering
Q: To enable accurate measuring of Moon-Earth distance the NASA lunar landings of 1969-72 left on the moon a? A: Mirror
Q: What scientist did the Vatican officially pardon in 1992, having declared him a heretic, and forced him to recant under threat of torture, for asserting in 1632 that the Earth orbits the Sun? A: Galileo
Q: A linen 'stola' is the female equivalent of the Roman man's woollen? A: Toga
Q: The poodle dog/name originated in Germany from association with? A: Water
Q: In Europe which dangerous natural phenomenon exists only in Portugal, Norway, Iceland, Italy and the Canary Islands? A: Volcanoes
Q: Richard Adams' 1972 anthropomorphic novel Watership Down is about a colony of? A: Rabbits
Q: 1960s Thamesmead social housing estate in SE London was the main location for the film? A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: The Battle of Jutland was the only (What?) battle of the 1st World War? A: Naval
Q: Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay did what in May 1953? A: First ascent of Everest
Q: Baklava, a food in Turkish/Central-West Asian cuisine, is a type of? A: Pastry
Q: What iconic British brand of matches and tobacco smoking materials is the Roman goddess of the hearth/fire? A: Vesta
Q: Grévy's, Grant's, Chapman's, and the extinct Quagga, are varieties of? A: Zebra
Q: Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), first identified in willow bark by Hippocrates c.400BC, is better known as what a genericized trademark? A: Aspirin
Q: What Anglicized German word originally from 'harm-joy' refers to pleasure derived from misfortunes of others? A: Schadenfreude
Q: The Latin word via originally meant? A: Road
Q: Coach Claudio Raniero spent how many years in management before winning his first top-level league championship with Leicester FC in 2016? A: 28
Q: In the early 2000s Leicester became the first UK city whose majority of population is? A: Ethnically diverse
Q: Melton Mowbray in Leicestershire is famous for its European Protected designation of origin named? A: Pork pie
Q: Which English King was found in a Leicester car park in 2012, and reburied in Leicester Cathedral in 2015? A: Richard III
Q: In how many games did Leicester City FC not concede a goal in their 2015-16 Premiership winning season? A: 14
Q: How many games did Leicester City FC lose at their home ground in their winning 2015-16 season? A: 1
Q: Leicester City FC's 2015-16 Premier League winning coach Claudio Ranieri is? A: Italian
Q: Wes Morgan's role for Leicester City FC's 2015-16 Premier League winning team was? A: Captain
Q: Name the English 'Queen of nine days' (1553), born and raised at Bradgate House at Newtown Linford in Leicestershire? A: Lady Jane Grey
Q: Name the Leicester City FC striker who in 2016 broke the record for scoring in consecutive Premiership games? A: Jamie Vardy
Q: In 1485 the last English monarch to be (What?) occurred at Bosworth Field in Leicestershire? A: Killed in battle
Q: At 2016 Leicester City FC's stadium and shirt sponsor name, and owner is called '(What?) Power'? A: King
Q: What internationally popular Leicester-formed rock band played at Leicester City FC's Premiership celebrations in May 2016? A: Kasabian
Q: Leicester City FC's colours are? A: Blue and white
Q: What Leicestershire village is famous for its historic fox hunt and the name origin for a popular meat substitute food? A: Quorn
Q: Leicester City FC's 1950s-70s players Gordon Banks and Peter Shilton are considered among the world's best ever? A: Goalkeepers
Q: In 2016 Mark Selby from Leicester won for the second time the World Championship for? A: Snooker
Q: Name the Leicester-born world-class goalscorer for Leicester City FC and England who became a hugely successful TV presenter? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Name the globally popular snack brand founded and based in Leicester, at the largest production plant of its type in the world? A: Walkers
Q: Leicester City FC's playing kit sponsors/makers during their 2015-16 Premiership winning season were? A: Puma
Q: 0.6214 mile is how many metres? A: 1000
Q: Vaseline is a genericized brandname for what sort of 'Jelly'? A: Petroleum
Q: Name the ancient Greek slave/storyteller to whom many fables are attributed in an eponymous collection? A: Aesop
Q: The US Hillerich & Bradsby company's 'Louisville Slugger' is a? A: Baseball bat
Q: What is the popular Tex-Mex and Mexican dish known in Spanish as 'frijoles refritos'? A: Refried beans
Q: Monophthongs, dyphthongs and triphthongs are types of? A: Vowel sounds
Q: What French word refers to a terracotta dish and a pâté typically made in one? A: Terrine
Q: From the Greek god of love what term refers to a part of the human body that is especially responsive to touch/stimulation? A: Erogenous
Q: Latin deus (god) and Javanese dejos became what Chinese pidgin English word for an incense stick? A: Joss
Q: Machiavellian/Machiavellianism, after Renaisance philosopher/writer/political scientist Niccolò Machiavelli (1469-1527), refers to? A: Cunning
Q: What profession historically performed blood-letting? A: Barbers
Q: Mythological Greek nymphs are spirits of nature imagined as beautiful? A: Young women
Q: North America's 'Boeing Apache' is a? A: Military helicopter
Q: By public vote In 2012 Shinzo Abe became Japan's new national? A: Prime Minister
Q: In 2016 President Justin Trudeau welcomed the introduction of legal euthanasia to his nation? A: Canada
Q: In 2016 where did Winston Churchill replace Elizabeth Fry? A: £5 note
Q: In the original Ebay company logo 1995-2012, which letter was capitalized? A: Y
Q: A pollywog or porwigle in England is more generally known as a? A: Tadpole
Q: Tom Hiddleston, Jamie Bell, and Idris Elba emerged as leading candidates in 2016 for the role of? A: James Bond
Q: The Tahitian/Tongan/Samoan word and tradition 'ta-tau' became what in English? A: Tattoo
Q: The premature same-age deaths of Brian Jones, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Jim Morrison, Kurt Cobain and Amy Winehouse prompted the popular '(What number?) Club' theory? A: 27
Q: Cilantro or Chinese parsley is better known as? A: Coriander
Q: Haiku, traditionally comprising 17 'morae' and a juxta-position, is a short form of Japanese? A: Poetry
Q: Prior to his criminal infamy, OJ Simpson was originally a famous American? A: Footballer
Q: Reflexology therapy primarily involves touching a patient's? A: Feet
Q: The Greek word petro/petros, as in petroleum and petrochemicals, etc, means? A: Rock
Q: Which small English Midlands county is home to the eponymous '(What?) Water' (named after the county) - the nation's largest reservoir by area? A: Rutland
Q: Batman's gadget-loaded super-powered road vehicle, appearing in the very first Batman comic story 1937, is called the Bat? A: Mobile
Q: The popular 2002 film about an Indian Sikh girl in London defying her family to achieve great success at soccer is called 'Bend It Like ...' ? A: Beckham
Q: The female equivalent of a Sultan (Arabic/Muslim leader) is a? A: Sultana
Q: John Adair, Hersey & Blanchard, Tannenbaum & Schmidt, and Kurt Lewin are famous theorists in? A: Leadership
Q: In 2004, FIFA's President suggested that women footballers should wear? A: Tighter shorts and low cut shirts
Q: In soccer the playing position of captain is always a midfielder - true or false? A: False
Q: Name the Swiss football administrator who served as the eighth president of FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) from 1998 to 2015 and banned from office after an ethics investigation? A: Sepp Blatter
Q: In association football, Bobby Moore, Franz Beckenbauer, Cristiano Ronaldo, and Lionel Messi, are considered among the greatest (What?) besides among the greatest players of all time? A: Captains
Q: The famous quantum mechanics thought experiment demonstrating that something can exist in two states (in this case alive or dead) until observed is called Schrödinger's? A: Cat
Q: Leicester City FC won the English Premier League Champions of 2015-16 with a team costing roughly what fraction of rivals Manchester City? A: A tenth
Q: The infinitely powerful 'anyone can do it' form of leadership, requiring absolutely no authority or formal position whatsoever, abbreviated to the acronym ARK, is A Random act of? A: Kindness
Q: Mother Theresa, Florence Nightingale, Gandhi, Mandela, Dalai Lama, Buddha, Martin Luther King, Aung San Suu Kyi, and Jesus Christ are examples of a highly sophisticated modern leadership type, defined in Robert Greenleaf's 1977 book, '(What?) Leadership'? A: Servant
Q: Which horse won the Epsom Derby in 1989? A: Nashwan
Q: What is the medical condition icterus commonly called? A: Jaundice
Q: Who discovered and opened Tutankhamun's tomb in 1922? A: Howard Carter
Q: Who invented the jet engine? A: Frank Whittle
Q: In which London building was the funeral of Diana Princess of Wales held in 1997? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: Which Argentine leader was deposed in 1982? A: General Galtieri
Q: Marron Glacé is what, preserved and coated in sugar? A: Chestnut
Q: In which year was the Battle of Waterloo? A: 1815
Q: Which actor's real name was William Henry Pratt? A: Boris Karloff
Q: The creation of what famous and anthemic song is officially attributed to Banjo Paterson and Christina Macpherson? A: Waltzing Matilda
Q: Who played Daisy Duke in the 2005 film The Dukes of Hazzard? A: Jessica Simpson
Q: What name is given to the uncut locks of hair worn on the sides of the head by orthodox male Jews? A: Payess
Q: In Greek mythology what is the name of the river whose water when drunk caused complete forgetfulness and made the souls of the dead forget their life on earth? A: Lethe
Q: What are the little discs of waste called that are produced by a paper or card hole-punch? A: Chad
Q: What are the padded high-waisted trousers with shoulder straps worn for skiiing called? A: Salopettes
Q: What type of natural substance is caoutchouc (pronounced kachook)? A: Rubber
Q: The first atomic bomb explosion was carried out in which US state? A: New Mexico
Q: Whose last work entitled The Transfiguration was unfinished when he died in 1520? A: Rafael
Q: Who wrote the Ballad of Reading Gaol in 1898? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: The World Trade Organization was founded in 1995 in which European city? A: Geneva
Q: In numerology a tern is a set of how many? A: Three
Q: Pekoe is a type of which drink? A: Tea
Q: Which station has the longest escalator in London's Tube network? A: Angel
Q: The Welland Ship Canal is in which country? A: Canada
Q: Who played Woody Allen's ex-wife in the 1979 film Manhattan? A: Meryl Streep
Q: The 1957 song Butterfly was (surprisingly) the only UK number one hit achieved by which significant recording artist? A: Andy Williams
Q: On what date is St Martin's Day - or Martinmas - celebrated in Europe? A: 11 November
Q: Where on a woman's body would you see a bindi? A: Forehead
Q: England cricketer Denis Compton played for which county club? A: Middlesex
Q: Who made the famous statement, 'I think, therefore I am' ? A: Rene Descartes
Q: The city of Bulawayo is in which African country? A: Zimbabwe
Q: Henry Darnley was the husband of which British monarch? A: Mary Queen of Scots
Q: Catherine de Medici was the wife of which French monarch? A: Henri II
Q: In what state was Jimmy Carter governor before becoming president? A: Georgia
Q: In which European city is the sixteenth century limestone Bridge of Sighs? A: Venice
Q: In which film does Robert De Niro play the character Rupert Pupkin? A: The King of Comedy
Q: The Florence Nightingale School of Nursing was founded in 1860 at which London institution? A: St Thomas' Hospital
Q: The person holding what office sits on the Woolsack in the House of Lords? A: The Lord Speaker
Q: Byssinosis is a disease affecting which part of the body? A: Lungs
Q: First performed in 1938, and commonly considered one of the saddest of all classical works, who composed Adagio for Strings (it was used in the 1986 film Platoon)? A: Samuel Barber
Q: Which American animator created Daffy Duck and Droopy Dog? A: Tex Avery
Q: What range of hills between Northumberland and the Scottish borders gave their name to a farm breed? A: Cheviot
Q: In 1992 which scientist and philosopher was absolved of heresy by the Vatican? A: Galileo
Q: Who is the patron saint of Portugal? A: St George
Q: Who composed Maple Leaf Rag? A: Scott Joplin
Q: How many pockets does a billiard table normally have? A: Six
Q: Who in 1990 became the first chancellor of a united Germany? A: Helmut Kohl
Q: Which country was previously called Persia? A: Iran
Q: Who was the wing commander who led the 'Dambusters' bomber raids in 1943? A: Guy Gibson
Q: The Faroe Islands are an autonomous province of which country? A: Denmark
Q: How old was Tony Blair when he became British prime minister in 1997? A: Forty-three
Q: The fashionable island Martha's Vineyard is in which US state? A: Massachusetts
Q: In Western culture what is the birthstone for the month of May? A: Emerald
Q: Fotheringhay Castle, birthplace of Richard III in 1452, and site of Mary Queen of Scots trial and execution in 1587, is in which English county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: Which American celebrity claims to have a maid called Vaginica Seaman? A: David Gest
Q: What is the capital of Queensland, Australia? A: Brisbane
Q: What is the 1990's cult Japanese electronic toy which is cared for as if it were a pet? A: Tamagotchi
Q: What is the number of the MASH unit in the TV series? A: 4077
Q: In what year was suffragette Emily Davidson killed by King George V's horse in the Epsom Derby? A: 1913
Q: What is Herman Munster's twin brother called? A: Charlie
Q: Which playwright was once secretary to James Joyce, 1969 Nobel prizewinner for literature, and wrote his most famous play originally in French, titled En Attendant Godot? A: Samuel Beckett
Q: Who is fifth in line to the British throne (as at Aug 2007)? A: Princess Beatrice
Q: What is the Latin term used in referencing which means 'in the same place' ? A: Ib.
Q: What is the flap which covers the human windpipe when swallowing? A: Epiglotis
Q: James Earl Ray was arrested at Heathrow airport in 1968 and subsequently convicted of whose assassination? A: Martin Luther King, Jr.
Q: Who was the famous wife of Leofric, Earl of Mercia? A: Lady Godiva
Q: The town of Fray Bentos, after which the meat products brand was named, is in what country? A: Uruguay
Q: Cedi is the basic monetary unit of which African country? A: Ghana
Q: What was the name of the ship on which Charles Darwin set sail on his voyage around the world in 1831? A: HMS Beagle
Q: Who wrote the best selling book The Tipping Point? A: Malcolm Gladwell
Q: What is the name of the largest island of Japan? A: Honshu
Q: Harry Longbaugh was better known by what name? A: The Sundance Kid
Q: Which common chemical element has the atomic number 20? A: Calcium
Q: For which film did Henry Fonda win his best actor Oscar? A: On Golden Pond
Q: What is the name of the carnival held in some countries on Shrove Tuesday? A: Mardi Gras
Q: Who was the British nurse arrested in Brussels and shot by firing squad in 1915 on suspicion of helping Allied solders to escape? A: Edith Cavell
Q: What object officially joined our solar system on 1st May 1930? A: Pluto
Q: With what is a 'carpetbag steak' stuffed? A: Oysters
Q: Which early Charles Dickens novel features the characters Wackford and Fanny Squeers, Smike, Newman Noggs and the Cheeryble brothers? A: Nicholas Nickleby
Q: How many balls, including the white cue ball, are on a snooker table (before any are potted)? A: Twenty-two
Q: In Western ecclesiastical law a diriment impediment invalidates what? A: Marriage
Q: Who is generally credited with the invention of the hovercraft in 1955? A: Christopher Cockerell
Q: What colour is the letter L in the standard Google logo? A: Green
Q: How many stars are on the flag of the European Union? A: Twelve
Q: Which English playwright and poet was stabbed in uncertain circumstances in 1593 age 29 (he penned the line 'Come live with me and be my love')? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: Who won 'The Battle of the Sexes' tennis match at the Houston Astrodome in 1973? A: Billie Jean King
Q: Kenneth Kaunda was the first president of which African country? A: Zambia
Q: The billionnaire Barclay twins' long-running disputes about their private island Brecqhou (or Brechou) are with which Channel Island? A: Sark
Q: Which Scottish athlete refused to run on a Sunday at the 1924 Paris Olympic Games? A: Eric Liddle
Q: The King and Queen of which European country narrowly escaped assassination on their wedding day in 1906? A: Spain
Q: Marsh Fever is another term for which ailment? A: Malaria
Q: What is the offspring of a male lion and a tigress called (apart from very dangerous)? A: Liger
Q: Jazz musician Miles Davis, 1926-91, whose 1959 album Kind of Blue is generally regarded as the biggest selling jazz album of all time, played what instrument? A: Trumpet
Q: The river Han flows through which capital city? A: Seoul
Q: Who was the president of Yugoslavia, 1953-80? A: Tito
Q: James Mason played Sir Randolph Nettleby which 1984 film? A: The Shooting Party
Q: The St Leger is run at which English racecourse? A: Doncaster
Q: Which popular Welsh entertainer wrote the First World War song Keep the Home Fires Burning? A: Ivor Novello
Q: What is the largest island in the Mediterranean? A: Sicily
Q: Yellowstone National Park is in which US state? A: Wyoming
Q: Who became the chairman of Watford Football Club in 1977? A: Elton John
Q: What is the fourth book of the Bible's Old Testament? A: Numbers
Q: Who played Elliot Ness in the 1987 film The Untouchables? A: Kevin Costner
Q: What number of equal size circles (or coins) fit exactly around another of the same size so that all are touching? A: Six
Q: A Pearmain is what type of fruit? A: Apple
Q: Which British boxer and past world middleweight champion committed suicide in his flat in Leamington Spa in 1966? A: Randolph Turpin
Q: What was Lily Munster's maiden name? A: Dracula
Q: What is the main ingredient of the dish Borscht? A: Beetroot
Q: What is the US state capital of Virginia? A: Richmond
Q: What is the generally accepted collective term for a group of starlings? A: Murmuration
Q: In which year was the Channel Tunnel (between England and France) opened? A: 1994
Q: What was the name of Napoleon's horse at Waterloo? A: Marengo
Q: A 2007 film celebrated the 50th anniversary of which typeface? A: Helvetica
Q: If something is bicephalous it has two what? A: Heads
Q: Which famous fashion emporium was started by Barbara Hulanicki in London in 1964? A: Biba
Q: Who wrote the ballet The Firebird? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Who was the first British monarch to broadcast a Christmas message to the nation? A: George the Fifth
Q: Child star Jimmy Boyd sang which hugely popular 1950's Christmas song, which was initially banned by the Catholic Church in Boston because it supposedly mixed sex and Christmas? A: I saw Mommy kissing Santa Claus
Q: Who banned Christmas in England between 1647 and 1660? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: On which date is Epiphany celebrated in the traditional Western calendar? A: 6th January
Q: What liqueur goes into making a 'snowball' cocktail? A: Advocaat
Q: What is the English title of the carol written in 1818 by Austrian priest Josef Mohr originally called Stille Nacht? A: Silent Night
Q: The Nordic countries (Denmark, Sweden, Norway notably) tend to celebrate Christmas chiefly on which date? A: 24th December
Q: Which US state in 1907 was the last to declare Christmas a legal holiday? A: Oklahoma
Q: Presepe in Italy refers to what Christmas tradition? A: Nativity scene
Q: Christmas Crackers is cockney rhyming slang for which part of the male anatomy? A: Testicles
Q: Which of the Wise Men was said to have brought the gift of gold for the baby Jesus? A: Melchior
Q: The 1954 movie White Christmas was the first to be made using what new Paramount film format? A: VistaVision
Q: Which river did George Washington cross on Christmas night in 1776 in the American Revolutionary War? A: Delaware
Q: Traditional in Germany at Christmas, what sort of food is stollen? A: Cake
Q: According to the UK National Meteorological Office what year (prior to 2007) was the last White Christmas in Britain? A: 2004
Q: The Christmas period of 1813-14 saw the last what in London? A: Christmas Fair on a frozen River Thames
Q: How many gifts are given in total in the song The Twelve Days of Christmas? A: 364
Q: "The words ""Myrrh is mine, its bitter perfume breathes of life, of gathering gloom..."" come from which Christmas carol?" A: We Three Kings of Orient Are
Q: "Which diarist noted on 25th December 1662, ""(Christmas Day). Had a pleasant walk to White Hall, where I intended to have received the communion with the family, but I have come too late...""" A: Samuel Pepys
Q: The USA's official National Christmas Tree is in which National Park? A: King's Canyon National Park, California
Q: John Callcott Horsley designed what first commercial Christmas item in 1843? A: Christmas card
Q: In Victorian England what people were popularly called robins because of their red uniforms? A: Postmen
Q: Which popular poem was alternatively known as A Visit from St Nicholas? A: 'Twas The Night before Christmas
Q: Which token vegetable is often included in the ingredients of a Christmas pudding? A: Carrot
Q: What is a bicycle called with seats and pedals for two riders, one behind the other? A: Tandem
Q: A marmoset is what type of animal? A: Monkey
Q: What is the name of the popular Japanese alcoholic drink made from rice? A: Sake
Q: What colour are the berries from the rowan tree? A: Red
Q: Who made the Gettysburg Address in 1863? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who played Don Vito Corleone in the 1972 film The Godfather? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Which musician, who died in 1987, famously had a candelabra on his piano? A: Liberace
Q: Which country has the international car registration letter A? A: Austria
Q: Who is sixth in line to the British throne (as at December 2007)? A: Princess Eugenie
Q: What is the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Delta
Q: Chinese gooseberry is another name for which fruit? A: Kiwifruit
Q: Glaucoma affects which part of the human body? A: Eyes
Q: The resort of Faliraki is on which Greek island? A: Rhodes
Q: A book about someone's life written by someone else is called what? A: Biography
Q: In which sport would you see a Boston Crab? A: Wrestling
Q: A 'pea-souper' is which type of weather condition? A: Fog
Q: What is a maker of casks and barrels called? A: Cooper
Q: During the US 1920s prohibition what was the name given to an illegal drinking place? A: Speakeasy
Q: What type of foodtsuff is marscarpone? A: Cheese
Q: What is a two-dimensional geometric shape with five equal straight sides and five equal angles called? A: Pentagon
Q: Which organisation produces the UK's ABC1C2 (etc) Social Grade Classifications Statistics? A: NRS Ltd
Q: Who developed the 'Equity Theory' of job motivation in the 1960's? A: J Stacey Adams
Q: The Ansoff matrix correlates what two aspects of business development from the 'new' and 'existing' perspectives? A: Products and Markets
Q: In business accounts and financial reporting, expenses which change according to scale of performance or usage or demand are known as what? A: Variable Costs
Q: What is the name of Ingham and Luft's model and theory which deals with hidden and open areas of knowledge about a person? A: The Johari Window
Q: What does the accounting acronym FIFO mean? A: First In First Out
Q: One of the most effective and efficient forms of marketing is abbreviated to the initials WOM; what is it? A: Word Of Mouth
Q: Bloom's Taxonomy of Learning Domains divides learning development into three main aspects? A: Knowledge, Attitude, Skills
Q: What are the four metaphorical terms used to describe products/services in Boston Matrix model according to market share and market maturity? A: Dog, Cash Cow, Problem Child and Star (or Rising Star)
Q: The financial ratio which divides a company's 'liquid assets' by 'current liabilities' is known by what popular term? A: Acid Test
Q: What three important things should be confirmed and understood before conducting a brainstorming ideas session? A: The purpose or aim of the exercise; a time limit; the fact that all ideas are welcome and to be respected (ie., sometimes the craziest-sounding ideas are the best ones).
Q: With what was the Kyoto Summit concerned? A: Global climate change
Q: What is the '1st Law of Cybernetics' (aka the 'Law of Requisite Variety')? A: """The unit within the system with the most behavioural responses available to it controls the system."""
Q: Whose experiential learning theory comprises the learning styles named? A: David Kolb
Q: Daniel Goleman was responsible for popularising and defining what management and behavioural concept in his eponymously titled (ie., the title is also the subject) 1995 book? A: Emotional Intelligence
Q: What is the management technique that is commonly and informally abbreviated to MBWA? A: Management By Walking About
Q: Large size hand-writing generally indicates what characteristics in the personality of the writer? A: Extraverted or out-going nature
Q: Since October 2004, UK employers must follow a minimum process of three-stages for handling disputes with employees, including disciplinary and grievance matters; what are the basic minimum three stages required? A: 1. Write a letter to the employee explaining the issue; 2. Have a meeting with the employee to discuss the issue; 3. Hold or offer an appeal meeting with the employee if required.
Q: Douglas McGregor defined two main styles of management; what did he call them and how are each of the two styles typified? A: X-Theory
Q: Bruce Tuckman's theory about team development uses what four sequential rhyming words to describe the four stages of a group's progression? A: Forming, Storming, Norming, Performing
Q: What visionary management thinker wrote The Age Of Unreason and The Empty Raincoat? A: Charles Handy
Q: A lot of the traditional 20th century sales theory and training was influenced by the 1937 book 'How to Win Friends and Influence People'; who wrote it? A: Dale Carnegie
Q: Which past leader of Russia died in April 2007? A: Boris Yeltsin
Q: Which 2007 convicted celebrity drunkard is nicknamed Lilo? A: Lindsay Lohan
Q: What month in 2007 was the smoking ban in England introduced? A: July
Q: Who was the heroic baggage handler at the attempted Glasgow airport car-bombing? A: John Smeaton
Q: Who suggested that Gordon Brown had transformed from Stalin to Mr Bean? A: Vince Cable
Q: In Chinese astrology, 2007 was the year of the what animal? A: Pig
Q: Which country won the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Serbia
Q: Which psychiatrist and host of BBC Radio 4's In the Psychiatrist's Chair died in October 2007? A: Anthony Clare
Q: Who became the 2007 Formula One World Driver's Champion in October? A: Kimi Raikkonen
Q: Donald Tusk replaced a twin to become prime minister of which country? A: Poland
Q: Cristina Kirchner became the first elected woman president of which country? A: Argentina
Q: The iPhone was launched by which company? A: Apple
Q: What month in 2007 did Tony Blair depart as UK prime minister? A: June
Q: The fifth Harry Potter film released in July 2007 is called what? A: Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Q: Which England rugby player was controversially denied a try in the 2007 World Cup final against South Africa because his foot was deemed to have been in touch before grounding the ball? A: Mark Cueto
Q: Adam Applegarth presided over what controversial corporation? A: Northern Rock
Q: Who was appointed new England soccer manager in December 2007? A: Fabio Capello
Q: What city hosted the 2007 World Athletics Championships? A: Osaka
Q: Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, previous founders of Kazaa and Skype, launched their new video and TV show distribution website in October 2007 called what? A: Joost.com
Q: Which country's victory at Wembley in November 2007 put the home nation out of the European Cup? A: Croatia
Q: Who made the highly critical documentry film Sicko, about the US healthcare system? A: Michael Moore
Q: Which former politician and convicted perjurer was appointed in November 2007 to lead a prison reform task force for the Conservative Party? A: Jonathan Aitken
Q: Which company was found officially responsible for the Suffolk Bird Flu outbreak in February 2007? A: Bernard Matthews
Q: On which Indonesian island was the United Nations Climate Change Conference held in December 2007? A: Bali
Q: Which world champion 400m runner successfully overturned her Olympic Games ban for missing drug tests? A: Christine Ohuruogu
Q: Monks featured strongly in the September protests in which country? A: Burma
Q: Which northern England city was flooded by torrential rain on on 25 June 2007? A: Hull
Q: In what US city did Barack Obama announce his presidential candidacy in February 2007? A: Springfield
Q: Which Bollywood actor was at the centre of the 2007 Big Brother TV Show racism uproar? A: Shilpa Shetty
Q: Shinzo Abe resigned in September 2007 as prime minister of which country? A: Japan
Q: Which corporation bought 1.6% of Facebook for $240m? A: Microsoft
Q: The two CDs lost by the UK department HMRC (Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs) contained personal details of 20m people relating to claims of what? A: Child Benefit
Q: Who resigned as England cricket coach after the 2007 Ashes series 5-0 defeat? A: Duncan Fletcher
Q: In May 2007 Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum announced the biggest what in history to date? A: Charitable donation
Q: Intensive British forces operations in Afghanistan through 2007 were centred in which province? A: Helmand
Q: In what significant UK location was the August 2007 Climate Change Camp sited? A: Heathrow Airport
Q: Which movie star left the much publicized 'rude pig' phone message for his twelve year old daughter? A: Alec Baldwin
Q: At the end of 2007 how many England Premiership football (soccer) clubs were foreign owned? A: Nine
Q: In June 2007 the Millennium Dome re-opened under what name? A: O2
Q: Which famous aviator and adventurer went missing over the Nevada Desert in September 2007? A: Steve Fosset
Q: What country celebrated on August 15th 2007 its 60th anniversary of independence from British rule? A: India
Q: Who resigned as World Bank President after failing to disprove allegations of his nepotism? A: Paul Wolfowitz
Q: Following an Ofcom investigation which TV company was judged in September 2007 to be the worst offending in the premium line phone-in scandals? A: GMTV
Q: What was the name of the Space Shuttle which launched on June 8th 2007? A: Atlantis
Q: Who was charged with fraud when he reappeared five years after going missing in a canoe off the Cleveland coast? A: John Darwin
Q: Which Formula One racing team was expelled from the 2007 Constructors Championship for spying on a competitor? A: McLaren
Q: Blake Fielder-Civil achieved notoriety as whose errant husband? A: Amy Winehouse
Q: Which former newspaper owner and business mogul was sentenced to 78 months imprisonment for fraud in December 2007? A: Conrad Black
Q: Which major city switched off its lights for an hour on the evening of 31 March 2007 as a political statement about climate change? A: Sydney
Q: What was the village and laboratory site name connected with the August 2007 foot-and-mouth desease outbreak near Guildford in Surrey? A: Pirbright
Q: Garments of which famous clothes label were found being made by child labour in India in October 2007? A: Gap
Q: Which organization announced euphemistically it would 'transition' its modestly performing '360' social networking website? A: Yahoo
Q: What Richard Dawkins' book attracted huge popularity and controversy throughout 2007? A: The God Delusion
Q: The live album Beauty and the Beat featured pianist George Shearring and which singer? A: Peggy Lee
Q: Whose band was the Tijuana Brass? A: Herb Alpert
Q: Who were Cliff Richard's backing group through the 60s? A: The Shadows
Q: Who were the famous backing singers on most of Elvis Presley's early hits? A: The Jordanaires
Q: The Stratocaster is a model of which guitar maker? A: Fender
Q: Which piano-playing singer's first hit was The Fat Man? A: Fats Domino
Q: Which American rock'n'roll star caused controversy when he married a young teenager? A: Jerry Lee Lewis
Q: Who made the highly rated 1959 jazz album Kind of Blue? A: Miles Davis
Q: Larry Adler played what instrument? A: Harmonica
Q: The founding brother members of the Kinks were Ray and Dave what? A: Davies
Q: What was Smokey Robinson's most famous band called? A: The Miracles
Q: Kenny Ball and his Jazzmen's 1962 hit was called March of the ... what? A: Siamese Children
Q: Who sang the hit theme song Rawhide? A: Frankie Laine
Q: John Mayall's band which helped launch Eric Clapton's career was called what? A: Bluesbreakers
Q: Which comedy actor had a novelty hit with My Boomerang Won't Come Back? A: Charlie Drake
Q: Colin Blunstone fronted which 1960s group? A: The Zombies
Q: What Eastenders star sang on the novelty hit Come Outside? A: Wendy Richard
Q: Which later-to-be-famous solo singer and guitarist toured as a member of the Beach Boys in the mid 60s? A: Glen Campbell
Q: Who had sang the hit song Little Old Wine Drinker Me? A: Dean Martin
Q: What famous 'two-fingered' jazz guitarist died in 1953? A: Django Reinhardt (Jean-Baptiste Reinhardt)
Q: What song, released to promote the film The Millionairess, featured its stars Peter Sellers and Sophia Loren? A: Goodness Gracious Me
Q: Who managed the Beatles' prior to his early death in 1967? A: Brian Epstein
Q: Whose nickname was a derived from the term satchel-mouth? A: Louis Armstrong (Satchmo)
Q: What's the name of the motorbiker who dies in the Shangri-Las' hit The Leader of the Pack? A: Jimmy
Q: Which singing-songwriting founder of the Flying Burrito Brothers died age 26, after which his body was 'stolen' by a friend and burnt in the Joshua Tree National Park? A: Gram Parsons
Q: Which American singer and entertainer was nicknamed Schnozzola, because of his large nose? A: Jimmy Durante
Q: Who wrote Patsy Cline's hit Crazy? A: Willie Nelson
Q: What city hosted the Beatles as the resident band at the Kaiserkeller and Top Ten Club? A: Hamburg
Q: The Isley Brothers' hit was called Behind a ... what? A: Painted Smile
Q: American DJ Robert Weston Smith was better known by what stage name? A: Wolfman Jack
Q: What ridiculously titled song was a hit in 1954 for Max Bygraves in the UK and the Four Lads in the USA? A: Gilly Gilly Ossenfeffer Katzenellen Bogen by the Sea
Q: What was Emile Ford and the Checkmates' 1959 hit, supposedly the longest ever question in a UK No1 song title? A: What Do You Want to Make Those Eyes at Me For?
Q: Who singer-guitarist's backing band was The Bruvvers? A: Joe Brown
Q: Which Rolling Stones guitarist died in a swimming pool in 1969? A: Brian Jones
Q: Who founded the Tamla Motown record label? A: Berry Gordy
Q: What folksy British singer-songwriting guitarist was famous also for his whistling? A: Roger Whittaker
Q: What was Hugo Montenegro's instrumental hit, composed by Ennio Morricone for the film of the same name? A: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
Q: Tom Parker managed which huge star? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Who won (barefoot) the British Eurovision Song Contest in 1967 with Puppet on String? A: Sandie Shaw
Q: The 1956 inaugural Eurovision Song Contest featured Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Italy and which other country? A: Switzerland
Q: Who originally fronted Herman's Hermits? A: Peter Noone
Q: Which singer played Alfie's girlfriend Siddie in the 1966 film? A: Millicent Martin
Q: What name was given to the 1950-60s mainstream country music style of artists including Patsy Cline, Tammy Wynette, Jim Reeves, and Charlie Rich? A: Nashville Sound
Q: Which harmonica-paying frontman of Manfred Man sang on their early hits and later became a successful radio presenter? A: Paul Jones
Q: Which motor city was the original the base of Tamla Motown? A: Detroit
Q: Peter Potter in the USA and David Jacobs in the UK presented which pop music TV show? A: Juke Box Jury
Q: What was the 1962 space-age instrumental hit by the Tornados? A: Telstar
Q: Who wrote and sang the novelty hit Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh, about Camp Granada? A: Allan Sherman
Q: Who was the famous rock guitarist in the group Love Sculpture, notably featuring on their breakneck hit version of Khachaturian's classical piece Sabre Dance? A: Dave Edmunds
Q: Rolf Harris endorsed what new musical instrument, which supposedly features on David Bowie's hit Space Oddity? A: Stylophone
Q: Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, and Sammy Davis Junior were among several entertainers given what collective nickname? A: The Rat Pack
Q: The Rolling Stones first record label was what? A: Decca
Q: Simon and Garfunkel's song Mrs Robinson featured in what 1967 film? A: The Graduate
Q: What American DJ was nicknamed Moondog? A: Alan Freed
Q: Which gravel-voiced English singer was previously a gas-fitter from Sheffield? A: Joe Cocker
Q: Who sang the title song of the film The Girl Can't Help It? A: Little Richard
Q: Lulu sang the theme song to which 1967 film about an inner-city school, starring Sidney Poitier? A: To Sir, With Love
Q: What Eddie Cochran song, covered by the Who, told of frustrations with his boss and his congressman? A: Summertime Blues
Q: Who was the main singing star in the musical Half a Sixpence? A: Tommy Steele
Q: Which comedian's recordings featured hilarious telephone routines about King Kong and the introduction of Tobacco? A: Bob Newhart
Q: What long-running BBC Radio chart show began on the Light Programme in 1955, and later becoming hugely popular when presented by Alan Freeman? A: Pick of the Pops
Q: The Crickets backed which famous singer-songwriter? A: Buddy Holly
Q: Dizzy Gillespie played what instrument? A: Trumpet
Q: What record label did the Beatles establish? A: Apple
Q: Who had a 1960s hit with Step Inside Love? A: Cilla Black
Q: The record label and music company name HMV stood for what? A: His Master's Voice
Q: Who sang the theme song to the film Born Free? A: Matt Monro
Q: Congratulations was Cliff Richard's Eurovision Song Contest entry in what year? A: 1968
Q: Which singer's Eurovision Song Contest entry was Knock Knock (Who's There?)? A: Mary Hopkin
Q: Who wrote the instrumental A Swingin' Safari and led the orchestra which played the original hit version? A: Bert Kaempfert
Q: The Copacabana nightclub was in which city? A: New York
Q: Which British comedian had the massive-selling 1965 hit Tears? A: Ken Dodd
Q: Cher's partner was Sonny ... who? A: Bono
Q: Who made the hit comedy version of the Banana Boat Song, and other similar spoofs including versions of Presley's Heartbreak Hotel and Johnnie Ray's Cry? A: Stan Freberg
Q: Which 1960s easy-listening Irish crooner was famed for his rocking chair and knitted jumpers? A: Val Doonican
Q: What was Chuck Berry's first hit record? A: Maybellene
Q: What number gives its name to the cultish 'club' celebrating rock stars who died at that age? A: 27 (The 27 Club)
Q: Which fruit is the cordial grenadine primarily made from? A: Pomegranates
Q: What type of musical instrument is a goombay? A: Drum
Q: Blepharitis is the medical term for the inflamation of which part of the body? A: Eyelid
Q: The 2003 film Lost in Translation is set in which city? A: Tokyo
Q: Who discovered the Victoria Falls in 1855? A: David Livingstone
Q: Ailurophobia is a fear of what? A: Cats
Q: Who wrote the novel The Cider House Rules? A: John Irving
Q: In golf what is the name of a score of one stroke over par for a hole? A: Bogey
Q: What is the name of the casino on the reservation of the Mashantucket Pequot tribe in Connecticut? A: Foxwoods
Q: Artist and musician Chris Sievey is better known as whom? A: Frank Sidebottom
Q: Exodus, the second book of the Bible, recounts the departure of the Israelites from which country? A: Egypt
Q: What was the nationality of Lazlo Josef Biro, inventor of the ballpoint pen? A: Hungarian
Q: Which British singer's real name is Thomas Woodward? A: Tom Jones
Q: Sinclair Lewis was the first American to win a Nobel Prize for what subject? A: Literature
Q: What is the legislative assembly of Spain called? A: Cortes
Q: Who painted The Rake's Progress? A: William Hogarth
Q: A pelisse is what type of garment? A: Cloak
Q: The Taj Mahal is on the bank of which river? A: Jumna
Q: In which year was British Summertime first introduced? A: 1916
Q: What was the pseudonym of French dramatist Jean-Baptiste Poqueline? A: Moliere
Q: What connects Elizabeth Fry, Sir John Houblon, Adam Smith, George Stephenson, and Sir Edward Elgar? A: Appeared on Bank of England banknotes
Q: Which murderer lived at 39 Hilldrop Crescent, Kentish Town, North London? A: Dr Crippen
Q: What is the prehistoric fish considered extinct until found living off the African coast in the 20th century? A: Coelocanth
Q: What water birds and their cries are associated with madness? A: Loons
Q: The wood sorrel plant is more commonly known as what? A: Shamrock
Q: What was Pamela Anderson's character in the TV series Baywatch? A: C J Parker
Q: What fruity four-letter acronym is used to identify the traditional main foreign (non-English) languages of the European market? A: FIGS
Q: What company started as 'Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web'? A: Yahoo
Q: What item of apparel is a homburg? A: A hat
Q: On UK roads the triangular warning sign for ice shows what symbol? A: Snowflake
Q: What is the word for maze taken from Greek legend? A: Labyrinth
Q: What is a word puzzle comprising a picture or symbol plus individual letter or letters - and also the name of a UK TV detective? A: Rebus
Q: What word in English is the definite article? A: The
Q: 'Weight in kilograms divided by height in metres squared' equates to what health indicator? A: Body mass index
Q: In which century did Cleopatra VII (lover of Julius Caesar and Mark Anthony) rule Egypt? A: First century BC
Q: In the Bible who was Noah's grandfather? A: Methuselah
Q: What is the word for the upright shadow-casting part of a sundial? A: Gnomon
Q: Ireland's first ever all weather horse race meeting took place on 26 August 2007 on which racecourse? A: Dundalk
Q: Who was the leader of the Trojans in the Trojan war? A: Hector
Q: In which US state were the Salem witch trials held? A: Massachusetts
Q: What metallic element typically makes up between 10% and 25% of stainless steel? A: Chromium
Q: What Cape is Great Britain's most North Westerly point? A: Cape Wrath
Q: Who was the prolific writer of theme music for 1960s TV shows including Steptoe and Son, Dr Who, The Prisoner, Dangerman and Tales of the Unexpected? A: Ron Grainer
Q: Which cricket commentator, who mistakenly called Monty Panesar 'Monty Python', was awarded an OBE in 2003? A: Henry Blofeld
Q: Apia is the capital of which independent island nation in the South Pacific? A: Samoa
Q: Nob Hill is an affluent area in which city in the United States? A: San Francisco
Q: Which American female soul singer made the 1996 hit song Un-break My Heart? A: Toni Braxton
Q: Name London Zoo's Giant Panda from 1958 until her death in 1972? A: Chi Chi
Q: Who became president of Egypt following the assassination of Anwar El Sadat in 1981? A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: Of which 19th century movement were William Lovett and Feargus O'Connor leading figures? A: Chartism
Q: What international standard paper size (denoted by the letter A plus a number) has the dimensions of 297 x 420mm? A: A3
Q: What was the original use of the building which now houses the Tate Modern art museum in London? A: Power station
Q: How many farthings were in a British guinea? A: 1,008
Q: Libraries, schools, writing, the wheel, the aqueduct and alcoholic beer are inventions generally credited to which country? A: Iraq
Q: Who played female agent Cinnamon Carter in the 1960s TV series Mission Impossible? A: Barbara Bain
Q: What was the name of shark-hunter Quint's boat in the novel and film Jaws? A: Orca
Q: As at 2008 which corporation owns the brands Duracell, Braun and Gillette? A: Procter & Gamble
Q: Who was the first artist to appear at the new Wembley Stadium? A: George Michael
Q: In which country was Imry Nagy twice Prime Minister, executed for treason in 1958 and reburied as a hero in 1989? A: Hungary
Q: What is the technical term for a solid figure with five plane (flat) faces? A: Pentahedron
Q: A boomslang is what type of creature? A: Snake
Q: What is grandpa's name in the TV show The Munsters? A: Sam Dracula
Q: In which country was Greenpeace founded? A: Canada
Q: Who succeeded James Callaghan as leader of Britain's Labour Party? A: Michael Foot
Q: Chiromancy is the technical name for what pseudoscience (claimed but not proven to be scientific)? A: Palmistry
Q: As at 2008 what is the most popularly attended concert venue in the world (highest audience numbers per year)? A: The O2, London
Q: Nanga Parbat, meaning 'naked mountain', the 9th highest in the world, is part of which mountain range? A: Himalayas
Q: In which year was the United Nations founded? A: 1945
Q: Which American singer's real name was Eunice Wayman? A: Nina Simone
Q: The ghost of great Dane dog Kabur, said to haunt Los Angeles Pet Cemetery, belonged to which 1920s screen idol? A: Rudolph Valentino
Q: Who wrote Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance? A: Robert Pirsig
Q: What country hosts the World Wife-Carrying Championships? A: Finland
Q: What country temporarily renamed its currency Bolivar Fuerte (meaning strong Bolivar) while phasing out the use of the previous Bolivar alongside it? A: Venezuela
Q: What vital mechanism did Elisha Otis invent in 1852? A: The elevator brake
Q: What is Earl's band called in the TV series My Name is Earl? A: Phish Tahko
Q: What are the Italian cheese balls whose name translates as 'small mouthfuls? A: Bocconcini
Q: What did Colonel Thomas Blood attempt to steal in 1671? A: The Crown Jewels
Q: What word, extended from a more popular term, refers to a fictional book of between 20,000 and 50,000 words? A: Novella
Q: Who wrote the famous 1855 poem The Charge of the Light Brigade? A: Lord Alfred Tennyson
Q: In 1960 the UK publishing ban was lifted on what 1928 book? A: Lady Chatterley's Lover
Q: In bookmaking how many times would an quarto sheet be folded? A: Twice
Q: Who wrote the seminal 1936 self-help book How to Win Friends and Influence People? A: Dale Carnegie
Q: Who in 1450 invented movable type, thus revolutionising printing? A: Johannes Gutenberg
Q: Which Polish-born naturalised British novelist's real surname was Korzeniowski? A: Joseph Conrad
Q: Which short-lived dramatist is regarded as the first great exponent of blank verse? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: What is the Old English heroic poem, surviving in a single copy dated around the year 1000, featuring its eponymous 6th century warrior from Geatland in Sweden? A: Beowulf
Q: What relatively modern school of philosophy, popular in literature since the mid 1900s, broadly embodies the notion of individual freedom of choice within a disorded and inexplicable universe? A: Existentialism
Q: What was the pen-name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: What term originally meaning 'storehouse' referred, and still refers, to a periodical of various content and imaginative writing? A: Magazine
Q: Who wrote the significant scientific book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, published in 1687? A: Isaac Newton
Q: What 16th century establishment in London's Bread Street was a notable writers' haunt? A: The Mermaid Tavern
Q: Who wrote the 1845 poem The Pied Piper of Hamelin? A: Robert Browning
Q: Which American poet and humanist wrote and continually revised a collection of poems called Leaves of Grass? A: Walt Whitman
Q: The period between 1450 and 1600 in European development is known by what term, initially used by Italian scholars to express the rediscovery of ancient Roman and Greek culture? A: The Renaissance
Q: What is the main dog character called in Norton Juster's 1961 popular children's/adult-crossover book The Phantom Tollbooth? A: Tock
Q: Who detailed his experiences before and during World War I in Memoirs of a Foxhunting Man, and Memoirs of an Infantry Officer? A: Siegfried Sassoon
Q: What significant law relating to literary and artistic works was first introduced in 1709? A: Copyright
Q: Who wrote the 1891 book Also Sprach Zarathustra (Thus Spake Zarathustra)? A: Friedrich Nietzsche
Q: What word, meaning 'measure' in Greek, refers to the rhythm of a line of verse? A: Metre
Q: Cheap literature of the 16-18th centuries was known as 'what' books, based on the old word for the travelling traders who sold them? A: Chapbooks
Q: Derived from Greek meaning summit or finishing touch, what word refers to the publisher's logo and historically the publisher's details at the end of the book? A: Colophon
Q: Japanese three-line verses called Haiku contain how many syllables? A: Seventeen
Q: Stanley Kubrick successfully requested the UK ban of his own film based on what Anthony Burgess book? A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: The ISBN (International Standard Book Number) code was increased to how many digits from 1 January 2007? A: Thirteen
Q: What is the female term equating to a phallic symbol? A: Yonic symbol
Q: James Carker is a villain in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Dombey and Son
Q: What famous 1818 novel had the sub-title 'The Modern Prometheus'? A: Frankenstein
Q: By what name is the writer François-Marie Arouet (1694-1778) better known? A: Voltaire
Q: Which pioneering American poet and story-teller wrote The Fall of the House of Usher? A: Edgar Allen Poe
Q: According to Matthew 27 in the Bible what prisoner was released by Pontius Pilate instead of Jesus? A: Barabbas
Q: What was the 1920s arts group centred around Leonard and Virginia Woolf and the district of London which provided the group's name? A: The Bloomsbury Group
Q: What Japanese term (meaning 'fold' and 'book') refers to a book construction made using concertina fold, with writing/printing on one side of the paper? A: Orihon
Q: What were the respective family names of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet? A: Montague and Capulet
Q: Who wrote The Power of Positive Thinking in 1953? A: Norman Vincent Peale
Q: Around 100AD what type of book construction began to replace scrolls? A: Codex
Q: What name for a lyrical work, typically 50-200 lines long, which from the Greek word for song? A: Ode
Q: Who wrote the 1866 book Crime and Punishment? A: Fyodor Dostoevsky
Q: Who wrote the 1513 guide to leadership (titled in English) The Prince? A: Niccolo Machiavelli
Q: William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Robert Southey are commonly referred to as the 'what' Poets? A: Lake Poets
Q: In bookmaking, a sheet folded three times is called by what name? A: Octavo
Q: What word, which in Greek means 'with' or 'after', prefixes many literary and language terms to denote something in a different position? A: Meta
Q: """Reader, I married him,"" appears in the conclusion of what novel?" A: Jane Eyre
Q: Philosopher and writer Jeremy Bentham, 1748-1832, is associated with what school of thought? A: Utilitarianism
Q: What influential American philosopher and author wrote the book 'Walden, or Life in the Woods'? A: Henry David Thoreau
Q: The ancient Greek concept of the 'three unities' advocated that a literary work should use a single plotline, single location, and what other single aspect? A: Time
Q: Who is the second oldest of the Pevensie children in C S Lewis's The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe? A: Susan
Q: Who wrote the plays Three Sisters, and The Cherry Orchard? A: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov
Q: What technical word is given usually to the left-side even-numbered page of a book? A: Verso
Q: What is the pen-name of novelist Mary Ann Evans (1819-80)? A: George Eliot
Q: What simple term, alternatively called Anglo-Saxon, refers to the English language which was used from the 5th century Germanic invasions, until (loosely) its fusion with Norman-French around 12-13th centuries? A: Old English
Q: Laurens van der Post's prisoner of war experiences, described in his books The Seed and the Sower (1963) and The Night of the New Moon (1970) inspired what film? A: Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence
Q: With which troubled son are parents Laius and Jocasta associated? A: Oedipus
Q: Which Russian writer was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1970? A: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
Q: Which great thinker collaborated with Sigmund Freud to write the 1933 book Why War? A: Albert Einstein
Q: Legal action by J K Rowling and Warner Brothers commenced in 2007 against which company for its plans to publish a Harry Potter Lexicon? A: RDR Books
Q: Who wrote the 1939 book The Big Sleep? A: Raymond Chandler
Q: """In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice which I've been turning over in my mind ever since,"" is the start of which novel?" A: The Great Gatsby
Q: In the early 1900s a thriller was instead more commonly referred to as what sort of book? A: Shocker
Q: In what decade were ISBN numbers introduced to the UK? A: 1960s
Q: In 1969, P H Newby's book Something to Answer For was the first winner of what prize? A: Booker Prize
Q: Who established Britain's first printing press in 1476? A: William Caxton
Q: The word 'book' is suggested by some etymologists to derive from the ancient practice of writing on tablets made of what wood? A: Beech
Q: French writer Sully Prudhomme was the first winner of what prize in 1901? A: Nobel Prize for Literature
Q: Who wrote Naked Lunch, (also titled The Naked Lunch)? A: William Burroughs
Q: What was Christopher Latham Scholes' significant invention of 1868? A: Typewriter
Q: "Which novel begins ""It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife...""?" A: Pride and Prejudice
Q: Japanese author and playwrite Yukio Mishima committed what extreme act in 1970 while campaigning for Japan to restore its nationalistic principles? A: Suicide
Q: Which American philosopher, and often-quoted advocate of individualism, published essays on Self-Reliance, Love, Heroism, Character and Manners in his Collections of 1841 and 1844? A: Ralph Waldo Emerson
Q: Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye, printed in Bruges around 1475 is regarded as the first book to have been what? A: Printed in the English language
Q: In what city does Leo Tolstoy's novel War and Peace begin? A: Saint Petersburg
Q: """Make then laugh; make them cry; make them wait..."" was a personal maxim of which novelist?" A: Charles Dickens
Q: What is the land of giants called in Gulliver's Travels? A: Brobdingnag
Q: What term for a short, usually witty, poem or saying derives from the Greek words 'write' and 'on'? A: Epigram
Q: What was the original title of the book on which the film Schindler's List was based? A: Schindler's Ark
Q: Who was the first prime minister of Israel? A: David Ben-Gurion
Q: Who was the first man to appear on the cover of the American Vogue? A: Richard Gere
Q: Who directed the 2005 Bob Dylan documentary No Direction Home? A: Martin Scorsese
Q: What is the US state capital of Washington? A: Olympia
Q: Salpingitis is the medical term for the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Fallopian Tubes
Q: The Butut is the monetary unit of which country? A: Gambia
Q: Who won the 1987 British Formula One Grand Prix? A: Nigel Mansell
Q: What type of creature is a bonnethead? A: Shark
Q: The first chamber of commerce in Britain was founded in which city in 1783? A: Glasgow
Q: In astronomy what is the outermost region of a planet's atmosphere called? A: Exosphere
Q: A bibliophile is a lover of what? A: Books
Q: George Williams founded what in London in 1844? A: YMCA
Q: Which novelist wrote under the pseudonym Ellis Bell? A: Emily Bronte
Q: Steve Martin and Goldie Hawn played an architect and waitress in which 1992 film? A: Housesitter
Q: A costard is what type of fruit? A: Apple
Q: Which British rock band leased a six-acre section of Shepperton Studios in 1977 under the name of Ramport Enterprises? A: The Who
Q: Who painted The Monarch of the Glen? A: Sir Edwin Henry Landseer
Q: In which year was Britain's first adhesive postage stamp the Penny Black issued? A: 1840
Q: In US politics who replaced Spiro Agnew as Richard Nixon's vice-president in 1973? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Who was crowned King of the Scots in 1306? A: Robert the Bruce
Q: The Royal Mint is in which country of the UK? A: Wales
Q: Who resigned as Ireland's Taoiseach (pronounced 'teeshock' - it is the head of government) in May 2008 after more than ten years in the position? A: Bertie Ahern
Q: In 2008 billionaire financier Carl Icahn joined the board of what large internet corporation in a deal which saw him cease his fight to oust its leaders? A: Yahoo
Q: The South Ossetia war was fought between Russia and which other country? A: Georgia
Q: Human Rights Watch announced in October 2008 that what country is the world's most ignored tragedy? A: Somalia
Q: Who in 2008 was re-elected Prime Minister of Canada? A: Stephen Harper
Q: George Tupou V was crowned monarch of which country in August 2008? A: Tonga
Q: Chinese Democracy was the long awaited 2008 album release of which band? A: Guns N' Roses
Q: Who was Fiona Shackleton representing when she had a jug of water poured over her in February 2008? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Architect Rafael Viñoly designed what notable Leicester building which opened in 2008? A: The Curve Theatre
Q: For which national team did the cricketer play who was alleged to have called an Australian opponent a monkey, resulting in the suspension of the Australian tour of that country? A: India
Q: Which film director, with successes including Cold Mountain and The Talented Mr Ripley, died on 18 March 2008? A: Anthony Minghella
Q: Which chain announced the closure of 600 US branches in July 2008? A: Starbucks
Q: In which city did the Newseum museum of news and journalism re-open in April 2008? A: Washington DC
Q: Who wrote the much covered and 2008 hit song Hallelujah? A: Leonard Cohen
Q: On Rudy Giuliani's withdrawal from the contest for the Republican 2008 US presidential election nomination who received Giuliani's endorsement? A: John McCain
Q: Which original and long lost member of the Manic Street Preachers was declared dead on 24 November 2008? A: Richey Edwards
Q: What is the name of Google's web browser, launched in September 2008? A: Google Chrome
Q: What 2008 film set in 1880s America starred and was directed by Ed Harris? A: Appaloosa
Q: Which country won the most medals in total at the 2008 Summer Olympics? A: USA
Q: In October 2008 which country was first to follow Ireland in announcing it would guarantee all bank deposits, in the wake of the global financial crisis? A: Greece
Q: Which Eastern guru to the Beatles died on 5 February 2008? A: Maharishi Mahesh Yogi
Q: What venue hosted the 2008 Superbowl? A: University of Phoenix Stadium
Q: Which American entertainer famously parodied Sarah Palin during the 2008 US presidential elections? A: Tina Fey
Q: What hip-hop artist was controversially chosen to headline the 2008 Glastonbury Festival? A: Jay-Z
Q: Which American artist noted for his large graffiti-style paintings had a major exhibition at London's Tate Modern in Summer 2008? A: Cy Twombly
Q: Who won the UK 2008 Apprentice TV show and the resulting job with Sir Alan Sugar? A: Lee McQueen
Q: What was Abdel Kechiche's 2008 film about France's North African community? A: Couscous
Q: Who ran the fraudulent $50bn investment pyramid scheme exposed in December 2008? A: Bernard Madoff
Q: Who released the album Do You Like Rock Music? A: British Sea Power
Q: Who threw his shoes at George W Bush in December 2008? A: Muntadhar al Zeidi
Q: Which club won the Coca Cola Football League Championship for the 2007-08 season? A: West Bromwich Albion
Q: Which secretive artist's supposed real identity was 'outed' in 2008 as Robert Gunningham by the Mail on Sunday? A: Banksy
Q: Which rock group won the 2008 Mercury Prize? A: Elbow
Q: What successful 2008 film starring Angelina Jolie did Clint Eastwood direct? A: Changeling
Q: Nelson Evora won which country's only gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics? A: Portugal
Q: Who won 3 gold medals for Great Britain at the 2008 Summer Olympics, and was named 2008 BBC Sports Personality of the Year? A: Chris Hoy
Q: Which country won the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Russia
Q: Which country ended its combat role in Iraq on 1 June 2008 with the withdrawal of its 500 troops from Nasiriyah? A: Australia
Q: Which city hosted in 2008 the 65th anniversary of the oldest film festival in the world? A: Venice
Q: Who won best actor at the 80th Academy Awards of 2008? A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: Who resigned as Prime Minister of Pakistan on 18 August 2008? A: Pervez Musharraf
Q: In what city did Barack Obama formally accept the Democratic nomination for the US presidential election? A: Denver, Colorado
Q: Which driver did Louis Hamilton overtake in the final seconds of the Brazilian Grand Prix to clinch fifth place and thereby win the 2008 F1 Championship? A: Timo Glock
Q: What were Bertha, Cristobel and Dolly on 20 July 2008? A: Storms
Q: Which country won the 2008 Africa Cup of Nations (the African international soccer championship)? A: Egypt
Q: In which country did the world's largest ferris wheel (as at 2008) open for rides in March 2008? A: Singapore
Q: Who did the government appoint as executive chairman of Northern Rock after its nationalisation? A: Ron Sandler
Q: From January 2008 people seeking a visa to visit the UK were required to provide what additional form of identity? A: Fingerprints
Q: Which company did French president Sarkozy and his then girlfriend Carla Bruni sue in 2008 for unauthorised use of their images in an advert? A: Ryanair
Q: G Kennedy Thompson was fired in June 2008 from which US bank and early victim of the credit crunch? A: Wachovia
Q: Nepal re-named a remote airport near Mount Everest as what in February 2008? A: Tenzing-Hillary Airport
Q: In March 2008 the Shin Bet secret service of what country launched a blog written by four of its agents? A: Israel
Q: The Detroit Redwings beat the Pittsburgh Penguins to win the 2008 Stanley Cup in which sport? A: Ice hockey
Q: In March 2008 the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation announced a photographic competition to mark the International Year of the what? A: Potato
Q: What political correspondent voluntarily removed himself from the UK Strictly Come Dancing celebrity talent show for fear of undersevedly winning it? A: John Sergeant
Q: Which club won the 2008 Australian Football League Grand Final? A: Hawthorn
Q: Quentin Bryce became the first woman to hold what office in September 2008? A: Governor-General of Australia
Q: Which jazz musician and presenter of BBC Radio's I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue died on 25 April 2008? A: Humphrey Lyttelton
Q: Which UK member of parliament resigned in June 2008 to fight the Haltemprice and Howden election on a civil liberties platform? A: David Davis
Q: Who won the 2008 American Idol TV talent show? A: David Cook
Q: In what city did its kingdom's first women-only hotel and spa, called the Luthan, open in March 2008? A: Riyadh
Q: Which Indian city organised 'No Honking Day' to mark World Health Day, 7 April 2008, emphasising noise pollution as a significant health issue. A: Mumbai
Q: What candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination for the 2008 US election withdrew from the contest on 10 January 2008? A: Bill Richardson
Q: Which country did cyclone Nargis devastate on 2 May 2008? A: Burma
Q: What stadium nicknamed 'The House That Ruth Built' closed in November 2008? A: Yankee Stadium
Q: Who did Tiger Woods beat in a play-off for the 2008 US Open Championship? A: Rocco Mediate
Q: Who led Zimbabwe's Movement for Democratic Change opposition against Robert Mugabe in 2008? A: Morgan Tsvangirai
Q: Who was the trader alleged to be responsible for the French Société Générale trading loss of nearly five billion euros in January 2008? A: Jérôme Kerviel
Q: A court in which country was reported in March 2008 to have convicted a bear for stealing honey from a beekeeper? A: Macedonia
Q: The sales and reputation of what cheese were affected when toxins were believed to have contaminated buffalo milk? A: Mozzarella
Q: Which notable CEO stepped down on 27 June 2008 to concentrate on his charity work? A: Bill Gates
Q: During Prime Minister's Questions at the House of Commons in December 2008 Gordon Brown amusingly and accidentally claimed his government had saved what? (instead of the banking system) A: The World
Q: Vodka, Galliano and orange juice are used to make which classic cocktail? A: HARVEY WALLBANGER
Q: Which American state is nearest to the former Soviet Union? A: ALASKA
Q: At which battle of 1314 did Robert The Bruce defeat the English forces? A: BANNOCKBURN
Q: Consecrated in 1962, where is the Cathedral Church of St Michael? A: COVENTRY
Q: On TV, who did the character Lurch work for? A: ADDAMS FAMILY
Q: Which children's classic book was written by Anna Sewell? A: BLACK BEAUTY
Q: How many arms/tentacles/limbs does a squid have? A: TEN
Q: Which reggae singing star died 11th May 1981? A: BOB MARLEY
Q: Characters Charlie Allnut and Rosie Sayer appeared in which classic 1951 movie? A: THE AFRICAN QUEEN
Q: What is converted into alcohol during brewing? A: SUGAR
Q: Which Briton won an ice-skating Gold at the Lake Placid Olympics? A: ROBIN COUSINS
Q: In what year was Prince Andrew born? A: 1960
Q: What is the national game of the Basques? A: PELOTA
Q: If cats are feline, what are sheep? A: OVINE
Q: In the song, Heartbreak Hotel is on which street? A: LONELY STREET
Q: For his part in which 1953 film did Frank Sinatra receive a Best Supporting Actor Oscar? A: FROM HERE TO ETERNITY
Q: For which fruit is the US state of Georgia famous? A: PEACH
Q: Which is the financial centre and main city of Switzerland? A: ZURICH
Q: Who is the only man (at 2009) to have won motorbike and F1 car World Championships? A: JOHN SURTEES
Q: In which city was Martin Luther King assassinated in 1968? A: MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE
Q: In which county is the UK prime minister's official country residence Chequers? A: BUCKINGHAMSHIRE
Q: Who created the UK TV spoof 007 character Basildon Bond? A: RUSS ABBOTT
Q: What is the policeman's name in Noddy stories? A: PC PLOD
Q: Which TV programme's theme tune was called Hit and Miss? A: JUKE BOX JURY
Q: In the 1963 film The Great Escape, what names were given to the three tunnels? A: TOM, DICK, HARRY
Q: What liqueur bearing the letters D.O.M. on the bottle label was developed at Fecamp, France, in the 16th century? A: BENEDICTINE
Q: What is the third major Balearic Island with Majorca and Minorca? A: IBIZA
Q: Who won six consecutive Wimbledon singles titles in the 1980s? A: MARTINA NAVRATILOVA
Q: In which country did the Mau Mau uprising (1952-60) occur? A: KENYA
Q: What does a numismatist study or collect? A: COINS
Q: Who was Radio 1's first female DJ? A: ANNE NIGHTINGALE
Q: Who captained Jules Verne's submarine Nautilus? A: CAPTAIN NEMO
Q: Which guitarist is known as Slowhand? A: ERIC CLAPTON
Q: In which 1979 film was the spaceship called Nostromo? A: ALIEN
Q: The Shatt-el-Arab (River of Arabia) is the confluence of which two other rivers? A: TIGRIS and EUPHRATES
Q: In UK TV's 'Noel Edmund's House Party', the 'house' was situated near to which village? A: CRINKLEY BOTTOM
Q: What is infant whale commonly called? A: CALF
Q: What in Cornwall is the most southerly point of mainland Britain? A: LIZARD POINT
Q: Alan Minter was undisputed World boxing champion at which weight? A: MIDDLEWEIGHT
Q: Which 17th century explorer was buried with a pipe and a box of tobacco? A: SIR WALTER RALEIGH
Q: Which Latin term, usually applied to legal evidence, means 'at first sight'? A: PRIMA FACIE
Q: What was the character name of TV's 'The Saint'? A: SIMON TEMPLAR
Q: In literature, who was the best known pupil of Greyfriar's School? A: BILLY BUNTER
Q: What is the alternative common name for a Black Leopard? A: PANTHER
Q: Which actor appeared in Papillion and The Great Escape and died in 1980? A: STEVE MCQUEEN
Q: What do the British call the vegetables that Americans call zucchini? A: COURGETTES
Q: In which bay is Alcatraz? A: SAN FRANCISCO BAY
Q: Which British general was killed at Khartoum? A: CHARLES GORDON
Q: Which Cornish village claims to be the birthplace of King Arthur? A: TINTAGEL
Q: KAR120C was the registration of a yellow Lotus 7, in which 1960s cult UK TV series? A: THE PRISONER
Q: In which Dickens novel was Miss Havisham jilted on her wedding day? A: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Q: What is an otter's home called? A: HOLT
Q: Who had a 1985 hit with Saving All My Love For You? A: WHITNEY HOUSTON
Q: Which actor appeared to have a wooden leg in the 1956 film Moby Dick? A: GREGORY PECK
Q: How have vegetables been cut which are served Julienne? A: THIN STRIPS
Q: In Roman mythology, Neptune is the equivalent to which Greek god? A: POSEIDON
Q: Which TV character said, 'Live long and prosper'? A: MR SPOCK
Q: Which playwright wrote The Seagull, Uncle Vanya, and The Cherry Orchard? A: ANTON CHEKOV
Q: What is the other name for Wildebeest? A: GNU
Q: What make of car was the time-machine in the film Back To The Future? A: DE LOREAN
Q: Which school featured in UK TV's 'Please Sir'? A: FENN STREET
Q: Robin Hood & Friar Tuck appear in which well-known novel, by Sir Walter Scott? A: IVANHOE
Q: Which is the smallest member of the flute family? A: PICCOLO
Q: 'Mace is one of the spices obtained from the tree Myristica Fragrams - what is the other? A: NUTMEG
Q: Which hills divide England from Scotland? A: CHEVIOTS
Q: Who hosted UK TV's 'Family Fortunes' after Bob Monkhouse and before Les Dennis? A: MAX BYGRAVES
Q: Which Dickens' character was always 'expecting something to turn up'? A: MR MICAWBER
Q: A palmiped's feet are more commonly called what? A: WEBBED
Q: Which musical featured the song They Called The Wind Mariah? A: PAINT YOUR WAGON
Q: The headquarters of Greenpeace is in which European city? A: Amsterdam
Q: In what year did Mother Teresa of Calcutta win the Nobel Peace Prize? A: 1979
Q: Which was the first European country to give all women the vote? A: Finland
Q: What type of creature is a Garibaldi? A: Fish
Q: What colour is the gemstone garnet? A: Red
Q: Which sign of the Zodiac are people born on 30th October? A: Scorpio
Q: What type of weapon is a Falchion? A: A sword
Q: Which pub in Nottingham claims to be the oldest in Britain? A: The Trip To Jerusalem
Q: Mount Elbert is the highest peak in which mountain range? A: The Rockies
Q: Edward II was murdered in Berkeley Castle in 1327, in which county is Berkeley Castle? A: Gloucestershire
Q: Which American horse race is run at Churchill Downs? A: The Kentucky Derby
Q: What type of food is Quark? A: Cheese
Q: Which Alex Graham cartoon appears in the Daily Mail newspaper? A: Fred Basset
Q: Who discovered the smallpox vaccination? A: Edward Jenner
Q: What did Harry Beck design in 1931 and is still used in London today? A: The map of the London Tube system
Q: What is the chemical symbol for the element Potassium? A: K
Q: Who plays Lynette Scavo in the TV series Desperate Housewives? A: Felicity Huffman
Q: How many finger holes does a tin whistle (pennywhistle) have? A: Six
Q: What famous London building is officially called 1 Canada Square? A: Canary Wharf Tower
Q: Which tennis player was stabbed by a Steffi Graf fan while playing in Hamburg 1993? A: Monica Seles
Q: What was the nuclear power station Sellafield previously known as? A: Windscale
Q: Swansea is situated on which river? A: The Tawe
Q: In what year did Margaret Thatcher become Prime Minister? A: 1979
Q: Who shot Martin Luther King in 1968? A: James Earl Ray
Q: What is the person called who leads prayers in a mosque? A: The Imam
Q: Which British organisation was founded by Octavia Hill in 1895? A: The National Trust
Q: What was the name of the Spanish conquistador who conquered Mexico in 1519? A: Hernando Cortez
Q: When is St Andrew's Day? A: 30th November
Q: What type of game is Faro? A: A card game
Q: Which US state is named on the label of a Jack Daniels bottle? A: Tennessee
Q: A phlebotomist extracts what from the human body? A: Blood
Q: What is the female equivalent of polygyny? A: Polyandry
Q: Granadilla is another name for which fruit? A: Passion-fruit
Q: Nariyal is the Indian term for which nut? A: Coconut
Q: Who was president of Vietnam from 1945-54? A: Ho Chi Min
Q: In which county of the UK is Bramber Castle? A: West Sussex
Q: What type of animal was inside Sputnik 2 when launched into orbit in 1957? A: Dog
Q: Who was the eldest of the Marx Brothers? A: Chico
Q: What type of creature is a dugite? A: Snake
Q: What are the first names of English novelist G K Chesterton? A: Gilbert Keith
Q: Who painted The Water Lily Pool? A: Claude Monet
Q: Which vitamin is also known as pantothenic acid? A: B5
Q: The song Luck be a Lady features in which musical? A: Guys and Dolls
Q: In the city of Manchester (England) the Irk and Medlock join which river? A: Irwell
Q: What type of animal is a Kolinsky? A: Weasel
Q: Who wrote the book Catch-22? A: Joseph Heller
Q: Kodiak Island is in which US state? A: Alaska
Q: In the human body what is the hallux? A: Big toe
Q: In which year did Henry VIII become King of England? A: 1509
Q: The 1999 film Tea with Mussolini is based on whose autobiography? A: Franco Zeffirelli
Q: Port Said is in which North African country? A: Egypt
Q: In which year were premium bonds first issued in Britain? A: 1956
Q: Who designed the Beatles Sgt Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band album cover? A: Peter Blake
Q: What is the name of Moe's pet cat in the cartoon show The Simpsons? A: Mr Snookums
Q: Which country is known as the Pearl of Africa? A: Uganda
Q: What is the theme tune of the US basketball team, the Harlem Globetrotters? A: Sweet Georgia Brown
Q: Which UK supermaket chain launched a controversial carrier bag with the maxim 'Take an Old Bag Shopping'? A: Sainsbury's
Q: Which British comedian features in the video game Grand Theft Auto IV? A: Ricky Gervais
Q: Who was the first British Prime Minister not to have been privately educated? A: David Lloyd George
Q: Black Dog and Blind Pew are characters in which novel? A: Treasure Island
Q: A veronique dish is garnished with which fruit? A: Grapes
Q: What is the oldest trophy in international sport? A: The Americas Cup
Q: In which 1953 film did Marilyn Monroe play gold-digger Lorelei Lee? A: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
Q: The London Promenade concerts were founded by which English composer/conductor? A: Sir Henry Wood
Q: Who captained the West Indies cricket team from 1974-85? A: Clive Lloyd
Q: Loyola University is in which US city? A: Chicago
Q: What was singer Tony Bennett's only No1 UK hit single (as at 2009)? A: Stranger in Paradise
Q: In the human body what is the innominate bone more commonly known as? A: Hip bone
Q: Which US singer's real name is Ernest Evans? A: Chubby Checker
Q: Who became president of Uganda after Idi Amin was overthrown in 1980? A: Milton Obote
Q: In which decade was third class rail travel re-designated second class on British railways? A: 1950s
Q: Clayton Moore and John Hart both played which US TV character? A: The Lone Ranger
Q: Saarland is an area of which European country? A: Germany
Q: The Salk vaccine was developed in 1954 to be used against which disease? A: Polio
Q: The Battle of Balaclava was fought during which war? A: The Crimean War
Q: What is a Spanish nobleman of the highest rank called? A: Grandee
Q: What nationality was guitarist Django Reinhardt? A: Belgian
Q: In the UK children's TV series Playschool, what was the name of the black doll which replaced Hamble in the 1980s? A: Poppy
Q: What type of plastic was made from phenol and formaldehyde? A: Bakelite
Q: In which country is the city of Stavanger? A: Norway
Q: Which London Bridge designed by John Rennie was opened in 1817? A: Waterloo
Q: What is the common name for solid carbon dioxide? A: Dry ice
Q: Who played the Sheriff John T Chance in the 1959 film Rio Bravo? A: John Wayne
Q: In which European city is the San Vittore women's prison? A: Milan
Q: A detrusor is a muscle which forms a layer on the wall of which part of the human body? A: Bladder
Q: What is the score of 40-all called in a game of tennis? A: Deuce
Q: The July Revolution in 1830 was in which European country? A: France
Q: Which English poet died of tuberculosis in Rome in 1821? A: John Keats
Q: What is the name of the strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania? A: Bass Strait
Q: What were the first names of English novelist H E Bates? A: Herbert Ernest
Q: Braxy is a fatal bacterial infection in which animal? A: Sheep
Q: What type of plant is a cholla? A: Cactus
Q: Which nation was formerly called British Honduras? A: Belize
Q: The Ashmolean Museum is in which British city? A: Oxford
Q: A Dobro is what type of musical instrument? A: Guitar
Q: Whose autobiography is entitled Steps in Time? A: Fred Astaire
Q: Mysophobia is the fear of what? A: Dirt
Q: What is the food okra commonly known as? A: Ladies fingers
Q: Under the British Coal Mines Act of 1911 what age did a pit pony have to be before going underground? A: Four
Q: What is Thailand's biggest island? A: Phuket
Q: "Which UK Chancellor of the Exchequer said, ""The difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion is the thickness of a prison wall.""?" A: Denis Healey
Q: The Yas Marina Grand Prix circuit is in which country? A: Abu Dhabi
Q: Who was the first black man to appear on the cover of American Vogue? A: LeBron James
Q: Which English county cricket team play at the Rose Bowl? A: Hampshire
Q: On which river is the German town of Wittenburg? A: Elbe
Q: Where in the human body is the radius? A: Forearm
Q: An eyas is what young creature taken from the wild for training? A: Hawk
Q: Which singer's epitaph is 'True To His Own Spirit'? A: Jim Morrison
Q: What ice-cream dish is named after an Australian opera singer? A: Peach Melba
Q: Lammas Day falls on the first day of which month? A: August
Q: What type of creature is a canvasback? A: Duck
Q: Which prehistoric period followed the Stone Age and preceded the Iron Age? A: Bronze Age
Q: What is the science of accurate time measurement called? A: Chronometry
Q: President Anwar Sadat of Egypt and which prime minister were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1978? A: Menachen Begin
Q: Maurice Cole was the real name of which popular funny UK Radio and TV personality? A: Kenny Everett
Q: What was Barbara Windsor's first Carry On film? A: Carry On Spying
Q: In a game of English draughts how many pieces does each player normally begin with? A: Twelve
Q: Jasper National Park is in which country? A: Canada
Q: In which century was the Bank of England founded? A: 17th
Q: What is the fin on the back of a fish called? A: Dorsal
Q: Duma is a legislative body in the ruling asesembly of which country? A: Russia
Q: Pyaemia is the poisoning of what? A: Blood
Q: What is the profession of world famous Annie Liebovitz? A: Photographer
Q: In which century was divorce legalised (by Act of Parliament) in England? A: 19th
Q: How many Oscars did the 1959 film Ben Hur win? A: Eleven
Q: Who was Henry the Eighth's fifth wife? A: Catherine Howard
Q: A nap hand is a series of how many winning points or victories in a game or sport? A: Five
Q: Which British liner was torpedoed and sunk off the coast of Ireland in 1915? A: Lusitania
Q: Which Italian fashion designer was shot and killed outside his Miami home in 1997? A: Gianni Versace
Q: What is the title of a British nobleman ranking above an earl and below a duke? A: Marquess
Q: The Petrified Forest National Park is in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: Coprophagia is the eating (by insects and certain animals) of what? A: Dung
Q: Which city is the setting of 1950s musical Kismet? A: Baghdad
Q: Which London tube station was called Gillespie Road before adopting the name of a nearby football club in 1932? A: Arsenal
Q: Which Native American Indian tribe bought the Hard Rock chain for a reputed $965m in 2006? A: Seminoles
Q: Passat, the Volkswagen car model, is German for a type of what? A: Wind
Q: Which singer-songwriter released an album in 1983 called Hearts and Bones? A: Paul Simon
Q: Who was the first woman Speaker of the UK House of Commons? A: Betty Boothroyd
Q: What are auctioned at Tattersalls? A: Horses
Q: What is the fifth book of the Old Testament? A: Deuteronomy
Q: What was the name of the first US satellite, launched 31 Jan 1958? A: Explorer 1
Q: Bertrand Russell was a founder member of which British peace-movement organisation, established in 1957? A: CND
Q: In Greek mythology what was the name of the old man who ferried the souls of the dead across the River Styx to Hades? A: Charon
Q: What is the state capital of Queensland, Australia? A: Brisbane
Q: Natasha Khan is better known by what name? A: Bat for Lashes
Q: P is the symbol for which chemical element? A: Phosphorus
Q: In which 1963 film is Maureen O'Hara spanked by John Wayne? A: McLintock
Q: The Copenhagen Criteria define eligibility for national membership of what organisation? A: The European Union
Q: What is the Irish finger ring, comprising two hands, a heart and crown, worn to indicate romatic status? A: Claddagh
Q: What is the grammatical term for words such as at, in, of, to, by, under, and with? A: Preposition
Q: Acrophobia is a fear of what? A: Heights
Q: Idiot Box is a derogatory term for what? A: A television
Q: Which city hosts the headquarters of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement? A: Geneva
Q: What country forms the Easterly edge of the Horn of Africa? A: Somalia
Q: William Rufus was the nickname of which English monarch? A: William the Second
Q: What is the Christian festival, meaning 'fiftieth day', celebrated on Whit Sunday? A: Pentecost
Q: What is Edward Hopper's famous night-time painting of customers in an American diner? A: Nighthawks
Q: On which island did Noel Coward spend the last 23 years of his life? A: Jamaica
Q: Who illustrated Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass? A: John Tenniel
Q: A Hoosier is a native of which American state? A: Indiana
Q: What is the highest rank of officer in the RAF? A: Marshall of the Royal Air Force
Q: What is the surname of Eddie played by Adrian Edmondson in the UK TV series Bottom? A: Hitler
Q: What famous battle began with the English on Senlac Hill? A: Battle of Hastings
Q: Vodka, Cointrea (or Triple Sec), cranberry juice and lime-juice make up which cocktail? A: Cosmopolitan
Q: What British term equates to the American 'quarter-note' in music? A: Crotchet
Q: What metal, safely used in food colouring, has the E-Number 175? A: Gold
Q: Almeria, Merlot, and Waltham Cross are which fruit? A: Grapes
Q: What three-letter Latin term used commonly in English translated literally as 'road' or 'way'? A: Via
Q: Helvetia is the female personification of which country, appearing on its coins and stamps, etc? A: Switzerland
Q: What is the Mexican in the 2001 film called The Mexican? A: An antique pistol
Q: In children's TV what is the name of Fireman Sam's fire truck? A: Jupiter
Q: Which English artist was the subject of the 1974 film A Bigger Splash? A: David Hockney
Q: What bridge connects Dawes Point to Milson's Point? A: Sydney Harbour Bridge
Q: What is the longest play written by William Shakespeare? A: Hamlet
Q: The Bhagavad Gita is an important scripture of which religion? A: Hinduism
Q: Which British golfer won the 1969 British Open and 1970 US Open Championships? A: Tony Jacklin
Q: Who was president of the USA during World War I? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: The Biobio River is in which South American country? A: Chile
Q: Which Greek island is said to be the birthplace of the god Apollo? A: Delos
Q: Geophagy is the eating of what? A: Earth
Q: Cape Canaveral is in which US state? A: Florida
Q: The late 'Father of Chicago Blues', McKinley Morganfield, is better known by what name? A: Muddy Waters
Q: Which King of England defeated the French at the Battle of Agincourt? A: Henry the Fifth
Q: Who was shot dead by Jack McCall in 1876 at a poker table in Number Ten Saloon? A: Wild Bill Hickok
Q: Who crossed Niagara Falls on a tightrope in June 1859? A: Charles Blondin
Q: Nel Gwyn was the mistress of which King of England? A: Charles the Second
Q: What type of weather condition is a harmattan? A: Wind
Q: What type of animal is a Quokka? A: Wallaby
Q: In the UK which motorway crosses the Severn Bridge? A: M4
Q: What are the members of the Unification Church commonly called? A: Moonies
Q: Tenzin Gyatso is more famously known by what name? A: The Dalai Lama
Q: What country borders with Belgium, France and Germany? A: Luxembourg
Q: What alcoholic drink is distilled from the agave plant? A: Tequila
Q: Which British prime minister resigned in 1957 after his failure to handle the Suez Crisis? A: Anthony Eden
Q: Name the fraudulent chairman of Polly Peck who jumped bail and fled to Cyprus in 1993? A: Asil Nadir
Q: What computer game invented by Alexi Pajtnov celebrated its 25th anniversary in June 2009? A: Tetris
Q: Raymond Babbitt is the title character in which 1988 film? A: Rainman
Q: The logo of the Yamaha corporation comprises three interlocking what? A: Tuning forks
Q: What is the name of the US President's helicopter? A: Marine One
Q: ENT is what department in a hospital? A: Ear, Nose and Throat
Q: Vladimir Ulyanov was better known as which political activist and leader? A: Lenin
Q: Who was the first king of Rome? A: Romulus
Q: Who starred as Trampas the 1960-70s TV series The Virginian? A: Doug McClure
Q: Who was the youngest player (as at 2009) to win the Wimbledon Men's Singles Final? A: Boris Becker
Q: What is the chemical symbol for diamond? A: C
Q: What is the velvet fabric with a pattern formed by burning the pile away with acid? A: Devoré
Q: Which controversial footballer was the first to play for (and later to captain) England who was born after England won the 1966 World Cup? A: Tony Adams
Q: Which US sportsman was nicknamed the Sultan of Swat? A: Babe Ruth
Q: What is the birthstone for January? A: Garnet
Q: What colour is LaLa of Teletubbies? A: Yellow
Q: Holy Island off the English coast is also known by what name? A: Lindisfarne
Q: What was the basic monetary unit of Greece before the Euro? A: Drachma
Q: Whose Selected Papers on Hysteria, translated in 1909 by Abraham Brill, introduced the word libido into English? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: What was the name of the mythical sculptor who fell in love with the statue of a woman he carved, as told by Roman poet Ovid, and inspiring George Bernard Shaw's play of the same name? A: Pygmalion
Q: Who wrote the 2009 novel, The Princess and the President, criticized for hinting at an unlikely affair between Diana Princess of Wales and the President of France? A: Giscard d'Estaing
Q: Who produced the 1983 hit record Relax, by Frankie Goes To Hollywood? A: Trevor Horn
Q: "Who famously said in the witness box, ""Well, he would, wouldn't he?"" when told that Viscount Astor denied having an affair with her (in relation to the 1963 Profumo scandal)?" A: Mandy Rice-Davies
Q: What language is 'Jeg elsker dig' ? A: Danish
Q: Bessie Wallis Warfield became better known as whom? A: Wallis, Duchess of Windsor
Q: Presenter Bill Grundy flirted with which future punk singer during the Sex Pistols' swearing on the live TV Today show in 1976? A: Siouxsie Sioux
Q: In what city is the Venus de Milo statue displayed? A: Paris
Q: Who is the Greek God of the Marriage Ceremony? A: Hymen
Q: What word meaning vanity derives from the fallen Greek god who perished while transfixed by his reflection in a pool of water? A: Narcissism
Q: Dendrophilia is the tendency to be aroused by what? A: Trees
Q: Oliver Barrett IV was the male lead character in what famous 1970 film? A: Love Story
Q: What in 1972 was the first animated film to receive an X-rating in the USA? A: Fritz the Cat
Q: What word, meaning in Greek 'many' and 'man', refers to a woman having more than one husband at the same time? A: Polyandry
Q: A delusional jealous belief that a partner is unfaithful is known in psychiatry as what syndrome, after a Shakespeare character? A: Othello syndrome
Q: Linda Lovelace starred in what 1972 film, whose title inspired the nickname for the Watergate informant? A: Deep Throat
Q: Whose tale in Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales tells of a knight sent away by his queen to discover what women want above all else? A: The Wife of Bath
Q: Brigitte Bardot originally duetted on and prevented the release of what 1960s song, which later became a hit when she was replaced by Jane Birkin? A: Je T'Aime
Q: Whose controversial activities were based at 32 Ambleside Avenue, Streatham, South London? A: Cynthia Payne
Q: Who in 1953 appeared on the cover of the first issue of Playboy magazine? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Who was the first Tudor King of England? A: Henry VII
Q: What colour is the gemstone kunzite? A: Lilac
Q: In what year was the Sex Discrimination Act passed in the UK? A: 1975
Q: What word represents the letter J in the UK Police radio communications? A: Juliet
Q: What colour berets do the New York City crime-fighters the 'Guardian Angels' wear? A: Red
Q: During the siege of which African city did General Gordon die? A: Khartoum
Q: What type of creature is a gadwall? A: A duck
Q: What date of the year is Burns Night? A: 25th of January
Q: Which member of England's 2003 Rugby World Cup winning team has an uncle in the 1966 England Soccer World Cup winning team? A: Ben Cohen
Q: Which sixteenth century German astronomer was reputed to have sold his soul to the devil? A: Johann Faust
Q: What is the second book of the Bible's Old Testament? A: Exodus
Q: Who in Greek mythology fell in love with his own reflection? A: Narcissus
Q: Which rock band released an album Beggars Banquet? A: The Rolling Stones
Q: What are musophobics afraid of? A: Mice
Q: What is the name of the photographer famous for taking pictures of crowds of naked people? A: Spencer Tunick
Q: How many strings does a ukelele have? A: Four
Q: Which author died at Astapova railway station in 1910? A: Leo Tolstoy
Q: What does a copoclephilist collect? A: Keyrings
Q: Mount Vinson Massif is the highest peak in which continent? A: Antarctica
Q: Who was appointed the first woman cabinet minister in the UK? A: Margaret Bondfield
Q: Alicante, Golden Boy and Piranto are types of what? A: Tomato
Q: Who wrote the novel Bonfire of the Vanities? A: Tom Wolfe
Q: In which year was the first Miss World contest held? A: 1951
Q: Who was Sherlock Holmes' housekeeper? A: Mrs Hudson
Q: How many square yards are in a British acre? A: 4,840
Q: Who played Professor Marcus in the 1955 film, The Ladykillers? A: Alec Guinness
Q: In which year was TV's Channel 4 launched? A: 1982
Q: What are kept in an apiary? A: Bees
Q: What poisonous chemical element has the atomic number 33? A: Arsenic
Q: Which country has the longest coastline? A: Canada
Q: What fish family is the anchovy a member of? A: Herring
Q: Who was the first person to cross the English Channel in a plane? A: Louis Bleriot
Q: How many gun-firings salute the Queen's Birthday at the Tower of London? A: Sixty-two
Q: What nationality was the artist Edvard Munch? A: Norwegian
Q: Munich is on which river? A: Isar
Q: In which Bavarian town is the Passion Play performed every ten years? A: Oberammergau
Q: What is Hanson's disease commonly known as? A: Leprosy
Q: What does a hygrometer measure? A: Humidity
Q: What 1945 film starring Margaret Lockwood was titled after the legend of a 17th century highwaywoman? A: The Wicked Lady
Q: What is a sequence of letters called which reads the same backwards as forwards? A: Palindrome
Q: Who was the first wife of poet Ted Hughes, who killed herself in 1963? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: Who composed the Funeral March sonata? A: Frederic Chopin
Q: Ignatius of Loyola (1491-1556) founded what religious order? A: The Society of Jesus
Q: Leslie Poles were the first names of which writer, whose works included The Go-Between? A: L P Hartley
Q: In which city is Hell Gate Bridge, said to have inspired Sydney Harbour Bridge? A: New York
Q: The Bessemer process was invented in 1856 for the production of what material? A: Steel
Q: Which US poet wrote the Star-Spangled Banner? A: Francis Scott Key
Q: What is the basic monetary unit of Morocco? A: Dirham
Q: Sentenced to death at the Nuremberg Trials, which former chief of the Luftwaffe took cyanide the night before his scheduled hanging? A: Hermann Goring
Q: What are the names of the mother and father dogs in the film 101 Dalmations? A: Perdita and Pongo
Q: The grandfather of which English actress was leader of the Labour Party 1931-35? A: Angela Lansbury
Q: A human-being has how many pairs of chromosomes? A: Twenty-three
Q: Which American writer won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1954? A: Ernest Hemmingway
Q: Who played the title role in the 1992 film My Cousin Vinnie? A: Joe Pesci
Q: The Tamil Tigers are a rebel force in which country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: In Greek Mythology which King was condemned to stand near fruit and water which moved away when he reached for them? A: Tantalus
Q: In 2005 Yulia Tymoshenko became the first female Prime Minister of which country? A: Ukraine
Q: The Reverse Frankensteiner is a move in what performance art form? A: Professional Wrestling
Q: Palermo is the capital of which island? A: Sicily
Q: Fucus (pronounced 'fewcus') is a type of what? A: Seaweed
Q: The Irish city of Limerick is on which river? A: Shannon
Q: What car maker announced in early 2009 plans to reintroduce the iconic DS marque? A: Citroen
Q: What is a mazurka - a Polish folk dance; an Italian picnic table; a Chinese fighting snail; or a puppy or kitten born with only three legs? A: Polish folk dance
Q: What colour is the flesh of a lychee? A: White
Q: A hendecagon is a plane figure with how many straight sides? A: Eleven
Q: Who was the only guest vocalist to feature on a Led Zeppelin album? A: Sandy Denny
Q: The Stasi were the secret police of which country? A: East Germany
Q: In which English county is Windsor Castle? A: Berkshire
Q: Which music hall singer was famed for her rude songs, including 'I Sits Among the Cabbages and Peas'? A: Marie Lloyd
Q: La Brabanconne is the national anthem of which European country? A: Belgium
Q: Which city hosted the 1964 Summer Olympic Games? A: Tokyo
Q: What date is St Swithin's Day? A: July 15th
Q: What was the Italian cruise liner hijacked by terrorists in October 1985? A: Achille Lauro
Q: Which Shakespeare play features in the Cole Porter musical 'Kiss Me, Kate'? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: In which country is the port of Dakar? A: Senegal
Q: Which English cartoonist created the St Trinian schoolgirls? A: Ronald Searle
Q: What can sufferers of prosopagnosia not recognize? A: Faces
Q: Which World War Two leader was nicknamed the Desert Fox? A: Rommel
Q: Who was the first socialist President of France? A: Francois Mitterrand
Q: Grenache is a variety of which fruit? A: Grape
Q: What is the oldest surviving professional association football club in the world (as at 2009)? A: Notts County FC
Q: Who was wife to Henry II and mother of Richard the Lionheart and King John? A: Eleanor of Aquitaine
Q: Sigourney Weaver portrayed which zoologist in the 1988 film Gorillas in the Mist? A: Dian Fossey
Q: Which Native American leader's real name was Goyathlay? A: Geronimo
Q: Titan and Ganymeade are what in our Solar System? A: Moons
Q: In the first episode of the TV series Dallas which character took his new wife home to meet his family? A: Bobby Ewing
Q: How many players in total are bound together from both sides in forming a rugby union scrum? A: Sixteen
Q: Which English county is known locally as Kernow? A: Cornwall
Q: Who was the last surviving of the literary Bronte sisters? A: Charlotte
Q: Which Guns 'n' Roses song is based on a short story by Del James called Without You? A: November Rain
Q: In which year was the Wall Street Crash? A: 1929
Q: In a theatre what is the job of a visagiste? A: Make-up artist
Q: Who runs the Greendale post office in the children's TV show Postman Pat? A: Mrs Goggins
Q: In Greek mythology what is a nymph called who inhabits a wood or a tree? A: Dryad
Q: In cricket what is a batsman's score of nought commonly called? A: A duck
Q: GBJ is the international vehicle registration for where? A: Jersey
Q: What is the fruit of the blackthorn (prunus spinosa)? A: Sloe
Q: What would a silkworm grow to become if permitted to do so? A: Silkmoth
Q: The Domesday Book was made by order of which English monarch? A: William the First
Q: Who played Dr Who in the 1965 film Dr Who and the Daleks? A: Peter Cushing
Q: What is the medical condition in which a person has an extreme tendency to fall asleep at inappropriate times? A: Narcolepsy
Q: Who wrote the novel The Murders in the Rue Morgue? A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: Which retail chain changed their corporate font in 2009 from Futura to Verdana? A: IKEA
Q: What is the standard duration of a chukka in the sport of field polo? A: Seven minutes
Q: What is the title of the first James Bond film? A: Dr No
Q: In the US and Canada, Labor Day falls on the first Monday of which month? A: September
Q: What was the name and call-sign of the Apollo Eleven lunar module? A: Eagle
Q: What is the chemical formula of snow? A: H2O
Q: US President Franklin Pierce introduced what to White House Christmas tradition in 1856? A: Christmas tree
Q: What red-blooming Christmas plant came originally from Mexico? A: Poinsettia
Q: Brandy is made from distilling what? A: Wine
Q: What was Girls Aloud's 2002 UK Christmas number one single? A: Sound of the Underground
Q: Which famous comedy double-act partner made the first ever UK mobile phone call, New Year's Day, 1985? A: Ernie Wise
Q: Who is the narrator in the 2000 film The Grinch Who Stole Christmas? A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: What was the cyclone named that hit Darwin, Australia, in Christmas 1974? A: Tracy
Q: Pine needles are said to be a good source of which vitamin? A: C
Q: Choirboy Peter Auty sang the film version of which song later recorded as a hit record by Aled Jones? A: Walking in the Air
Q: What creature, noted for feeding on its berries, is linked by name to the mistletoe plant? A: Mistle thrush
Q: What is the birth sign of people born on 25 December? A: Capricorn
Q: 'Full of Eastern Promise' is an advertising slogan of what exotically positioned chocolate product? A: Fry's Turkish Delight
Q: Which poem written by Clement Moore was originally titled A Visit from Saint Nicholas? A: The Night Before Christmas
Q: What was the title of the first Christmas TV special Peanuts cartoon? A: A Charlie Brown Christmas
Q: What celebratory receptacle is falsely claimed to have been modeled on the breast of Marie Antoinette? A: Champage coupe
Q: Which author and creator of Jekyll and Hyde, gave his birthday by formal deed to Anne Ide because she disliked her own birthday of December 25th? A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: Christmas Crackers was the first Christmas edition of which popular UK comedy series? A: Only Fools and Horses
Q: Which hugely popular actor was born on Christmas day 1899? A: Humphrey Bogart
Q: What British spacecraft was lost on Mars at Christmas 2003? A: Beagle 2
Q: What was Queen's 1984 Christmas single called? A: Thank God it's Christmas
Q: American cartoonist Thomas Nast is credited with creating the traditional image of which popular Christmas character? A: Santa Claus
Q: Jackie Wilson's re-issued song Reet Petite became the 1986 UK Christmas number one after helping to advertise what brand? A: Levi's
Q: What is the name of Dorothy Gale's dog in The Wizard of Oz? A: Toto
Q: Born Christmas day 1908, by what name was gay icon author of The Naked Civil Servant popularly known? A: Quentin Crisp
Q: What is a baby Turkey more correctly called, other than a chick? A: Poult
Q: La Befana is the legendary character who delivers Christmas presents to children in which country? A: Italy
Q: Who is the central businessman character in the film It's a Wonderful Life? A: George Bailey
Q: In technical astronomical terms what is the duration of the winter solstice; an instant, a day, three months, or six months? A: An instant
Q: What Christmas-time song did James Pierpont compose in 1857? A: Jingle Bells
Q: What is the title of biggest selling Christmas single, globally? A: White Christmas
Q: What Christmas item takes its name from the old French word estincelle, meaning spark? A: Tinsel
Q: Kiritimati, the first inhabited place to experience each New Year, is more commonly known as what? A: Christmas Island
Q: In which city was the Salvation Army founded? A: London
Q: What drink advert launched the slogan 'The Right One' in 1970? A: Martini
Q: What is Virgil Hilts' nickname in the film The Great Escape? A: The Cooler King
Q: In which country is it a tradition to hide all brooms in the house on Christmas Eve? A: Norway
Q: Who wrote the songs for the 1954 film White Christmas? A: Irving Berlin
Q: Which US President banned Christmas trees from the White House? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: How many courses are there traditionally in a Ukrainian Christmas Eve supper? A: Twelve
Q: In the song The Twelve Days of Christmas, how many pipers are there? A: Eleven
Q: From what does the month of December take its name? A: Ten
Q: Lake Inari, within the Arctic Circle, is which European country? A: Finland
Q: Herman van Rompuy, the first President of the European Council, was previously prime minister of which country? A: Belgium
Q: Which multi-million-selling car whose front wheels turn 360 degrees celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2009? A: Cozy Coupe
Q: What is the name of the seat used for riding on the back of an elephant? A: Howdah
Q: Who composed Pomp and Circumstance No.4 in 1907? A: Edward Elgar
Q: What is the basic monetary unit in Vietnam? A: Dong
Q: In which London park does the annual Frieze Art Fair take place? A: Regents Park
Q: Metachrosis is the ability of some animals to do what? A: Change colour
Q: Where on the human head would you find an epicanthic fold? A: Eyelid
Q: Which British prime minister resigned in 1940? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: What is the name of the plant in the 1986 film the Little Shop of Horrors? A: Audrey II
Q: Dulse is an edible type of what? A: Seaweed
Q: From what island destination was HMS Bounty returning when its famous mutiny occurred? A: Tahiti
Q: Which of the Marx brother's original name was Adolph? A: Harpo
Q: Which famous poet and author, born in India in 1865, wrote the poem 'The Female of the Species is More Deadly than the Male'? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: What brand of raincoat was famously worn by British prime minister Harold Wilson? A: Gannex
Q: With which English county cricket club did Ian Botham finish his playing career? A: Durham
Q: Zagazig is a city in which North African country? A: Egypt
Q: Who was named England's first Poet Laureate? A: Ben Johnson
Q: Which of the British armed forces is known as the Senior Service? A: Royal Navy
Q: Who were the runners up in the 1998 FIFA World Cup Final? A: Brazil
Q: Who was William Shakespeare's wife (other than Mrs Shakespeare)? A: Anne Hathaway
Q: What type of fruit is a Jargonelle? A: Pear
Q: What is the name of the opera house which opened in Milan in 1778? A: La Scala
Q: What is the longest nerve in the human body? A: Sciatic nerve
Q: What was the old English silver coin worth four pre-decimal pennies? A: Groat
Q: The Bay of Plenty is on the coast of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: WWII General Joseph Stilwell's nickname was also the name of what 1970s rock act fronted by Elkie Brooks? A: Vinegar Joe
Q: Who played Louise Sawyer in the 1991 film Thelma and Louise? A: Susan Sarandon
Q: The natural geological columns of Fingal's Cave and the Giant's Causeway are formed of which rock? A: Basalt
Q: Who was the last emperor of China? A: Pu Yi
Q: The introduction of what vegetable coincided with the coronation of the British monarch in 1902? A: King Edward potato
Q: How many strings does a mandolin commonly have? A: Eight
Q: What three-letter brand meaning 'flight' is the Polish national airline? A: LOT
Q: Yootha Joyce and Brian Murphy played the title roles in which UK 1970s TV sitcom? A: George and Mildred
Q: What are the first names of writer J R R Tolkien? A: John Ronald Reuel
Q: Which British cyclist crashed out of the 1998 Tour de France while wearing the Yellow Jersey? A: Chris Boardman
Q: What pub paraphernalia does a tegestologist collect? A: Beermats
Q: Musician Dizzy Gillespie most famously played what instrument? A: Trumpet
Q: Deoxyribonucleic acid is commonly known as what? A: DNA
Q: Who was the voice of the genie in the 1992 animated Disney film Aladdin? A: Robin Williams
Q: A Dagwood is what type of snack, named after cartoon character Dagwood Bumstead? A: Sandwich
Q: What country had the Roman name Lusitania? A: Portugal
Q: The Book of Kells is in which city? A: Dublin
Q: The Prorsum collection is made by which fashion label? A: Burberry
Q: The 'Mach' speed measurement (for example Mach 1, or Mach 2, etc) is based essentially on multiples of the speed of what? A: Sound
Q: What is the name of the village near Birmingham, UK, established by George and Richard Cadbury? A: Bournville
Q: What cult movie spoof rock band reunited at Glastonbury 2009? A: Spinal Tap
Q: Veronica Lario was much in the news as the angry wife of which womanising European leader? A: Silvio Berlusconi
Q: What search engine did Microsoft launch in 2009? A: Bing.com
Q: Cartoonist and screenwriter Millard Kaufman, who died in March 2009, created which short-sighted character? A: Mr Magoo
Q: In two minutes, Amanda Dutta Tumuly achieved a new Guinness world record by eating fifty-one what in two minutes, each rated over one million on the Scoville Scale? A: Chillies
Q: Which computer game invented by Alexi Pajitnov celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2009? A: Tetris
Q: According to a ruling in 2009 by the UK Advertising Standards Authority what could women be shown to do in TV adverts before 11pm? A: Orgasm
Q: Who won the 2009 BBC Sports Personality Award? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: Which monarch's 500th anniversary of accession was featured on a 2009 commemorative £5 coin? A: Henry the Eighth
Q: Corcoram State Prison California released a new photo of which 74 year old cult-leading mass murderer? A: Charles Manson
Q: In 2009 the Tamil Tigers conceded defeat as a rebel force in which country's civil war? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Sonia Sotomayor in 2009 became the first Latino or Hispanic person to be selected for which US institution? A: The Supreme Court
Q: What newspaper first exposed the UK parliamentary expenses scandal? A: Daily Telegraph
Q: What successful Broadway musical written by Mel Brooks opened controversially in Berlin? A: The Producers
Q: Which previous Governor of the Bank of England died in April 2009? A: Eddie George
Q: Who in 2009 became Britain's first individual diving world champion? A: Tom Daley
Q: Mir Hossein Mousavi was the beaten opponent in which country's presidential election? A: Iran
Q: American doctor George Tiller was shot dead in Kansas in June 2009 by an activist protesting against what? A: Abortion
Q: Who beat seven foot tall boxer Nikolay Valuev to become the new WBA heavyweight champion? A: David Haye
Q: The 2009 UK budget announced what tax rate (effective April 2010) for earners of more than £150,000 per year? A: 50%
Q: in 2009 campaigners in Barcelona heightened demands to clean up what famous avenue? A: Las Ramblas
Q: What famous sportsman starred in the 2009 film Looking for Eric? A: Eric Cantona
Q: Which former US Secretary of State returned to academia in 2009 to teach political science at Stanford University? A: Condoleeza Rice
Q: What UK government minister claimed, received and subsequently paid back parliamentary expenses of £500 for painting a summer house? A: Gordon Brown
Q: What iconic American mode of transport was introduced to the UK in August 2009? A: Greyhound Bus
Q: Caster Semenya was subjected to a badly handled inquiry into what? A: Her gender
Q: What TV newsman, often voted the most trusted man in America, died in July 2009? A: Walter Cronkite
Q: What product launched in India called Sakshat ('before your eyes') with the incredible selling price of 500 rupees (about £7)? A: Laptop computer
Q: Who beat Tom Watson in the 2009 British Open Golf Championship play-off? A: Stuart Cink
Q: Who fought extradition to the US for allegedly hacking into Pentagon and NASA computers while investigating UFOs? A: Gary McKinnon
Q: What band won best international album and group awards at the 2009 Brits? A: Kings of Leon
Q: Who topped the Forbes' list of the world's most powerful women in 2009? A: Angela Merkel
Q: Real name Alecia Moore, which colourful US diva sold out three London O2 dates in May 2009? A: Pink
Q: In which island nation were president Marc Ravalomanama's offices stormed by his own country's army in March 2009? A: Madagascar
Q: Tidjane Thiam became the first black FTSE 100 CEO when appointed to head what UK financial services company? A: Prudential
Q: The statue of which Royal person was unveiled in London's The Mall in February 2009? A: The Queen Mother
Q: Which government minister agreed to pay £13,332 in capital gains tax owed from the sale of a second home, whose avoidance was revealed during the parliamentary expenses scandal? A: Hazel Blears
Q: John Towers, Nick Stephenson, John Edwards, and Peter Beale (the Phoenix Four) were criticised in a 2009 UK Government report for making vast personal gain while presiding over the collapse of which company? A: MG Rover
Q: What street dance group won the UK 2009 Britain's Got Talent TV competition? A: Diversity
Q: What London attraction features on the 2009 commemorative British 50p coin? A: Kew Gardens
Q: Which UK TV presenter called Gordon Brown a 'one-eyed Scottish idiot' ? A: Jeremy Clarkson
Q: Sir Edward and Lady Joan Downes made the headlines in July 2009 for their joint what? A: Suicide
Q: Whose album Two Suns was nominated for the 2009 Mercury Music Prize? A: Bat For Lashes
Q: Which prolific Australian bastman retired in early 2009? A: Matthew Hayden
Q: Which team lost the 2009 Superbowl to the Pittsburgh Steelers? A: Arizona Cardinals
Q: Rachel Riley succeeded which long-standing UK TV gameshow celebrity in January 2009? A: Carol Vorderman
Q: Which medieval city was the centre of the Italian earthquake of April 2009? A: L'Aquila
Q: Jacob Zuma led the ANC party to election victory in which country's 2009 election? A: South Africa
Q: Which boxer won a £1.8m claim against promotor Frank Warren in March 2009? A: Joe Calzaghe
Q: Which celebrity fronted the successful campaign to grant UK residency rights to Gurkha soldiers? A: Joanna Lumley
Q: In what country was the Black Thursday of Action in January 2009? A: France
Q: The tragic videoed killing of Neda Agha-Soltan became iconic following what city's demonstrations? A: Tehran
Q: Jan Kaplicky the architect who died in 2009 designed the space-age-like building at what sports ground? A: Lords cricket ground
Q: Ferenc Gyurcsany resigned as prime minister of which country in March 2009? A: Hungary
Q: Which country won the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Norway
Q: Daniel Patrick Carroll, who died in May 2009 was an entertainer better known as whom? A: Danny La Rue
Q: Who was deported from the US aged 89 to face a war crime trial in Germany? A: John Demjanjuk
Q: What country was judged in 2009 by the Economist Intelligence Unit to be the safest in the world? A: New Zealand
Q: Which ex-leader secured a book deal with Random House in March 2009 provisionally titled Decision Points? A: George W Bush
Q: Who resigned in 2009 as Speaker of the UK House of Commons? A: Michael Martin
Q: Which famous music manager of the Beatles and Rolling Stones died in 2009? A: Allen Klein
Q: Who won the 2009 Australian men's tennis Open Championship? A: Rafael Nadal
Q: What pop star was jailed in 2009 for assaulting a male escort? A: Boy George
Q: What in January 2009 did David Miliband significantly denounce as a 'mistaken concept'? A: The War on Terror
Q: Who was nominated for the best actress Oscar in the film Doubt? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Which comedian received a Special Achievement Award at the 2009 BBC Sports Personality of the Year event? A: Eddie Izzard
Q: Which writer, whose works include Rumpole of the Bailey, died in January 2009? A: John Mortimer
Q: Hans Bech who died in 2009 invented what popular toy figures? A: Playmobil
Q: Actor Laurence Payne who died in February 2009, aged 89, played which fictional detective on TV? A: Sexton Blake
Q: Andy Murray became the first British man to win what tennis tournament since Bunny Austin in 1938? A: Queen's
Q: Dorothy Hughes and Winifred Phillips became at 85 years old the first what? A: Chelsea Pensioners
Q: Which football club bought Ronaldo from Manchester United for £80m? A: Real Madrid
Q: What architect and peer accused Prince Charles of unconstitutional abuse of power? A: Richard Rogers
Q: Utegate was a political scandal involving a car dealer and the prime minister of which country? A: Australia
Q: What leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) admitted ironically to receiving over £2m expenses in ten years from the EU, used chiefly for UKIP's promotion of anti-EU policies? A: Nigel Farage
Q: UK 2009 summer weather conditions prompted fears of a plague of harlequins - what insects are these? A: Ladybirds
Q: Legal action by 30,000 Ivory Coast people was brought against which company for the allged dumping of toxic waste? A: Trafigura
Q: Which country won the 2009 rugby Six Nations Grand Slam? A: Ireland
Q: What was the first predominantly muslim country visited by Barak Obama after becoming US president? A: Turkey
Q: Which controversial politician resigned as Governor of Alaska in July 2009? A: Sarah Palin
Q: Manuel Zelaya was ousted by military coup as leader of what Central American country? A: Honduras
Q: Which Sussex town hosted the G20 Summit in March 2009? A: Horsham
Q: John Lydon (Johnny Rotten of the Sex Pistols) fronted which dairy product ad campaign? A: Country Life
Q: Who was appointed European Ryder Cup Captain in 2009? A: Colin Montgomerie
Q: US Jazz guitarist Huey Long who died aged 105 was a member of which famous 1940s male vocal group? A: The Inkspots
Q: Iftikhar Chaudrey was reinstated as Minister of Justice of which country after massive protests? A: Pakistan
Q: England's humiliating defeat in their first game of the cricket World Twenty20 Championship was by whom? A: Holland
Q: In 2009 Coca-Cola paid £30m for a minority share of which UK 'smoothie' drinks company? A: Innocent
Q: Which banker drew strong negative publicity relating to his failed leadership of RBS and substantial pension arrangements? A: Sir Fred Goodwin
Q: Which Swedish ex-world heavyweight boxing champion died in February 2009? A: Ingemar Johansson
Q: Which actor returned to ER in 2009 to huge acclaim? A: George Clooney
Q: Swiss insurance company SUVA launched a campaign in January 2009 urging slower what? A: Skiing
Q: In 2009 who became English football's most capped outfield player? A: David Beckham
Q: The phrase 'HDTV is worth every cent' became featured in which TV show's opening sequence? A: The Simpsons
Q: What politician nicknamed 'the big beast' returned to the Conservative party shadow cabinet? A: Kenneth Clarke
Q: Which UK pornographer and news mogul lost a libel action against biographer Tom Bower in July 2009? A: Richard Desmond
Q: The town of Winnenden, where a deranged teenager massacred 15 school children, is in which country? A: Germany
Q: Name the convicted Lockerbie bomber released in August 2009? A: Abdelbaset al-Megrahi
Q: Which film won the 2009 Bafta for best special visual effects? A: The Curious Case of Benjamin Button
Q: The reform charity Transform reported in 2009 that the legalisation of what would save UK taxpayers between £4.6 and £13.9bn per year? A: Drugs
Q: Who came third in the UK X-Factor 2009? A: Stacey Solomon
Q: Which soccer player maintained his record of playing and and scoring in every Premier League season? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: What is Google's 'city panorama' service called, launched in the UK in March 2009? A: Street View
Q: In Killarney, Ireland, Mark Davis became the the first 'Six-Red' world champion in which sport? A: Snooker
Q: Which car's 50th anniversary was featured on a Royal Mint 2009 commemorative coin? A: The Mini
Q: Who bought the bankrupt Woolworths company in February 2009? A: David and Frederick Barclay
Q: Who in 2009 ended Rafael Nadal's 4 year run of 31 wins in the French Open Championship? A: Robin Soderling
Q: As Corpus Christi captain in the University Challenge quiz show who made the news for her remarkable points-scoring? A: Gail Trimble
Q: French wine makers objected to EU plans to allow the blending of which sort of wine? A: Rosé
Q: Australian novelist Harry Nicholaides was jailed in January 2009 for insulting the monarchy in which country? A: Thailand
Q: Who brought a legal suit against Michael Jackson in early 2009 claiming a share of profits from the Thriller video? A: John Landis
Q: Which bankrupt UK construction firm was scrutinised in 2009 for having an £11m ruby on its balance sheet? A: Wrekin
Q: Which Welsh town had its first public showing of the film Life of Brian in March 2009 afer a 30 year ban? A: Aberystwyth
Q: Tzipi Livni led her Kadima party in what country's elections? A: Israel
Q: What website founded by Biz Stone and Jack Dorsey was never out of the news in 2009? A: Twitter
Q: Indian coporation Tata launched a 100,000 rupee (£1,350) new what in 2009? A: Car
Q: Name the British mercenary given a presidential pardon from his 34 year jail term for his part in a failed coup in Equatorial Guinea? A: Simon Mann
Q: Which comic strip footballer was re-published in a classic collection in April 2009? A: Roy of the Rovers
Q: In what country did President Hugo Chavez disagree with Coca-Cola about land for housing? A: Venezuela
Q: Which fast bowler took five wickets for eleven runs in England's 51 all out against the West Indies? A: Jerome Taylor
Q: The crowd crush at Birmingham's Millennium Point occurred during a performance by which pop group? A: JLS
Q: What new biodegradable product launched in the UK under the Chicza Rainforest brand? A: Chewing gum
Q: Which UK 'doorstep' loan company collapsed in 2009 with £2.4bn debts? A: Cattles
Q: What was the name of the British submarine which collided with the French submarine Le Triomphant in February 2009? A: HMS Vanguard
Q: What did Eric Holder (new US Attorney General) define as torture that Dick Cheney said was not? A: Waterboarding
Q: Who replaced BBC Radio 1's daily morning show DJ Jo Wiley in 2009? A: Fearne Cotton
Q: Carol Ann Duffy became the UK's first female what? A: Poet Laureate
Q: A US Airways Airbus ditched into which river after hitting a flock of birds in January 2009? A: Hudson
Q: In what sport did Miyabiyama defeat Chiyotaikai in Osaka in March 2009? A: Sumo wrestling
Q: Which singer made the news for objecting to her songs being sold on a compilation CD by the British National Party? A: Dame Vera Lynn
Q: What did Russian cargo ship Sinegorsk lose 1,500 tones of in the English Channel? A: Timber
Q: The BBC and Sky refused controversially to broadcast an appeal for where in January 2009? A: Gaza
Q: The 2009 'Bloodgate' rugby union scandal centred on which club? A: Harlequins
Q: What TV show became the first cartoon series nominated for an Emmy since the Flintstones? A: Family Guy
Q: Who lost 2-1 to Chelsea in the 2009 FA Cup? A: Everton
Q: Which UK government minister claimed parliamentary expenses for an 88p bath plug and porn movies? A: Jacqui Smith
Q: Which singer-songwriter of Baker Street was mistakenly reported missing? A: Gerry Rafferty
Q: Tycoon Allen Stanford, whose business empire collapsed in 2009, was chiefly associated with which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Ngati Toa, a New Zealand tribal group won the intellectual property rights to what? A: The Maori Haka
Q: What horse won the 2009 Grand National? A: Mon Mome
Q: Farah Fawcett, who died in 2009, played which character in TV's Charlie's Angels? A: Jill Munroe
Q: Who was the first female president of the Philipines, who died in August 2009? A: Corazon 'Cory' Aquino
Q: Which club did Thierry Henri play for in the 2008-9 European Champions League? A: Barcelona
Q: In December 2009 Ford agreed to sell which famous car subsidiary to China's Zhejiang Geely group? A: Volvo
Q: Which past heavyweight world champion boxer visited his great grandfather's birthplace, Ennis, Ireland? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: The European Union banned the manufacture of which wattage incandescent light-bulb in 2009? A: 100 watt
Q: Which country reversed a ruling banning Muslims from attending a Black-Eyed Peas concert in 2009? A: Malaysia
Q: In which Los Angeles memorial park was Michael Jackson buried? A: Forest Lawn
Q: Ryan Tubridy took over which Irish (and world's longest running) TV chat show? A: The Late Late Show
Q: Which South Pacific island nation became the first in the 21st century to change its driving on the road from right to left? A: Samoa
Q: A large statue of Apollo was discovered at a Unesco Heritage site in which country? A: Turkey
Q: What international organization did Albania and Croatia join on 1st April 2009? A: NATO
Q: Which African country replaced most of its senior police officers after they were blamed for post-election violence? A: Kenya
Q: What Israeli war film, named after the country of conflict featured in it, won the Golden Lion at the 2009 Venice Film Festival? A: Lebanon
Q: Ten paintings by which US artist were stolen from the private collection of Richard Wiseman in Los Angeles? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Which Belgian won the 2009 US Open Women's Tennis Singles Championship? A: Kim Clijsters
Q: For her performance in what film did Kate Winslet win her 2009 best actress Oscar? A: The Reader
Q: The Raptorex Kriegsteini, as smaller version of the Tyrannosaurus Rex, was discovered in which country? A: China
Q: Becky Simmon of Guernsey and Lisa Cummings of Ireland were first from their islands to swim what stretch of water respectively once and both ways? A: The English Channel
Q: Who in 2009 became the oldest person to have an album in the UK charts? A: Dame Vera Lynn
Q: Arthur's Day celebrated the 250th anniversary of the signing of the lease for which brewery? A: Guinness
Q: A painting by which surrealist artist was stolen from a Brussels museum? A: Rene Magritte
Q: Who was arrested in Zurich on a 31 year old US warrant? A: Roman Polanski
Q: Which US city lost its bid to host the Summer 2016 Olympics? A: Chicago
Q: What was the name of the typhoon which hit the Philippines in October 2009? A: Parma
Q: What was the descriptive and related name given to a smaller prehistoric site discovered near Stonehenge? A: Bluehenge
Q: A new ring was discovered around which planet in 2009? A: Saturn
Q: The Red Book, first published in 2009, largely unseen for 70 years, was written by what notable Swiss Psychiatrist? A: Carl Jung
Q: Which author's funeral took place in Baltimore US, 160 years after his death? A: Edgar Allen Poe
Q: The painting La Bella Principessa was attributed to which artist and inventor using fingerprint evidence? A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: What country first declared internet broadband access to be a legal right? A: Finland
Q: Which island nation held the world's first underwater cabinet meeting to publicize global warming? A: The Maldives
Q: What was Jenson Button's championship-clinching finishing place in the 2009 Brazilian Grand Prix? A: Fifth
Q: Whose 2009 tour titled The Red Piano was partly cancelled due to ill health? A: Elton John
Q: What Tory MP was found to have claimed unsuccessfully on his parliamentary expenses for a floating duck island? A: Sir Peter Viggers
Q: Which band performed a massive controversial concert at the Brandenberg Gate celebrating the 20th Anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall? A: U2
Q: Ratu Epeli Nailatakau was sworn in as president of which country? A: Fiji
Q: Which US actor and film director was made a Commander of the Legion d'Honneur in 2009? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: The US marijuana cafe opened in which state? A: Oregon
Q: Which country qualified for the 2010 FIFA World Cup for the first time since 1982 after beating Bahrain in a play-off? A: New Zealand
Q: Human rights activist Kumi Naidoo became the first African to head which organization? A: Greenpeace
Q: The Original of Laura, an incomplete novel by which Russian author was published 32 years after his death? A: Vladimir Nabokov
Q: Who apologised for his handball foul which helped eliminate Ireland from the 2010 FIFA World Cup Finals? A: Thierry Henri
Q: The European Court of Justice ruled airlines must compensate passengers for delays exceeding how many hours? A: Three
Q: What is big particle accelerator on the French-Swiss border, restarted in 2009 after extensive repairs? A: The Large Hadron Collider
Q: Oasis of the Seas became the world's largest what, when completed in 2009? A: Cruise Ship
Q: Two fingers and a tooth belonging to what famous father of science were rediscovered after being missing for over 100 Years? A: Galileo Galilei
Q: The Netherlands won the 2009 junior version of which international entertainment competition? A: Eurovision Song Contest
Q: A 2009 referendum in which country banned the construction of new Islamic minarets? A: Switzerland
Q: Which country saw court battles surrounding gay marriage and specifically the ceremony for Alex Freyre and Jose Maria Bello? A: Argentina
Q: The new Dreamliner passenger aircraft launched in 2009 is Boeing number what? A: 787
Q: A Ryanair jet slid off the runway at which Scottish airport? A: Prestwick
Q: From whom did Susan Sarandon announce a split after a long partnership? A: Tim Robbins
Q: Porfirio Lobo Sosa was elected president of which central American nation? A: Honduras
Q: Which band claimed the UK Christmas number one after an internet campaign against Simon Cowell's X-Factor? A: Rage Against the Machine
Q: Who famously withdrew from his own Chevron World Challenge charity sports event? A: Tiger Woods
Q: Who won a third term as Mayor of New York City in 2009? A: Michael Bloomberg
Q: Which English town became the first to be twinned with Walt Disney World in Florida? A: Swindon
Q: The body of which country's former president was stolen from its grave a day before the anniversary of his death? A: Cyprus
Q: Which city hosted the 2009 UN Climate Change Conference? A: Copenhagen
Q: What invertebrate species what filmed for the first time using a tool? A: Octopus
Q: In what TV soap did Tony confess to murdering Liam? A: Coronation Street
Q: What was Dan Brown's 2009 bestselling and Christmas number one book? A: The Lost Symbol
Q: Michale Schumacher announced his Formula One 2010 comeback would be with what team? A: Mercedes
Q: Part of which iconic leader's palace was discovered by archaeologists in the Mediterranean Sea? A: Cleopatra
Q: Who was announced as the eleventh Dr Who, replacing the outgoing David Tennant? A: Matt Smith
Q: Nashville based Mac McAnally was named for the second consecutive year Musician of the Year at which 2009 awards event? A: CMA Awards
Q: Discovered in 1996, element 112, symbol Cp, was added to the periodic table with what name, in honour of a famous astronomer? A: Copernicium
Q: Which football club was the first to win the sextuple of all possible major competitions? A: Barcelona
Q: What was the destination city of the plane carrying Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the 'underpants bomber'? A: Detroit
Q: A hugely valuable little sculpted guitar recently recovered by police in Italy was made by which cubist artist for his daughter Paloma? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What TV artist who helped popularise the Morph animated character died in 2009? A: Tony Hart
Q: Which Premier League football club was subject to a winding up petition by HM Revenue and Customs at the end of 2009? A: Portsmouth FC
Q: What irreverent publication founded by Chris Donald celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2009? A: Viz
Q: What type of musical instrument is a tabor? A: Drum
Q: A heptathlon is an athletic contest of how many separate events? A: Seven
Q: Which performer opened the 1969 Woodstock festival? A: Richie Havens
Q: What is cartoon character Spongebob Squarepants' starfish friend called? A: Patrick Star
Q: Who played Commodus in the 2000 film Gladiator? A: Joaquin Phoenix
Q: The Japanese company Ajinomoto (meaning 'essence of taste') was formed in 1909 to market which popular food ingredient? A: Monosodium glutamate
Q: What was serial killer John Christie's London address, and the title of the 1970 film about him starring Richard Attenborough? A: 10 Rillington Place
Q: Palamino is a variety of which fruit? A: Grape
Q: Forefathers Day is celebrated in the US on which date? A: 21 December
Q: What city has the busiest European underground railway system? A: Moscow
Q: Joseph Addison and Richard Steele founded (in 1711), and Boris Johnson edited, which British magazine? A: The Spectator
Q: Who was burned at the stake, age 19, in Rouen in 1431? A: Joan of Arc
Q: Catherine of Valois was the wife of which English king? A: Henry the Fifth
Q: How many times did Martina Navratilova reach the Women's Singles Final at Wimbledon? A: Twelve
Q: What is the capital of the Bahamas? A: Nassau
Q: What number is produced by displaying one of each of the Roman numerals, in descending order? A: 1666
Q: What commonly occurring gas has the chemical formula CH4 ? A: Methane
Q: What character normally appears with the % (percentage) symbol on its key of a QWERTY keyboard? A: 5
Q: Which late ostentatious US pianist's first names were Wladziu Valentino? A: Liberace
Q: What type of dangerous creature is a massasauga? A: Snake
Q: The British road sign of a red diagonal cross on a blue background in a red circle means what? A: No stopping
Q: In Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own, what is the name of Shakespeare's sister? A: Judith
Q: What is the fourth root of 81? A: 3
Q: Which English rock band were originally called the Spectres? A: Status Quo
Q: The plant Nicotiana tabacum is more commonly known by what name? A: Tobacco
Q: What is a meeting hall of the Salvation Army called? A: Citadel
Q: Uxoricide is the killing of one's what? A: Wife
Q: Mr Wopsle is a character in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Great Expectations
Q: Approximately how many kilometres does light travel in an hour? A: A billion
Q: What big disastrous English event happened in 1666? A: The Great Fire of London
Q: What formal two-word term refers to the investigation before completing a business investment or acquisition? A: Due diligence
Q: People born between about 1960-1980 are often referred to as Generation what? A: X
Q: What note is the second (second highest) string on a guitar when tuned to standard concert pitch? A: B
Q: Donald Tusk became the prime minister of which country in November 2007? A: Poland
Q: Called Coleoptera, meaning sheathed wing, what commonly known order of creatures contains more species than any other? A: Beetles
Q: The symbol ∞ (sideways 8) means what in mathematics? A: Infinity
Q: Who was Henry the Eighth's sixth wife? A: Katherine Parr
Q: What type of food is taleggio? A: Cheese
Q: Which playwright wrote Cat on a Hot Tin Roof? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: What does a Leyden jar store? A: Static electricity
Q: Which singer/musician was born Steveland Judkins? A: Stevie Wonder
Q: Which organisation retains copyright ownership of the laws of cricket? A: MCC
Q: MICEX is the major stock exchange of which country? A: Russia
Q: In which English midlands city was author Alan Sillitoe born? A: Nottingham
Q: Who was the target of an assassination plot in the 1978 film Foul Play? A: The Pope
Q: The American Academy of Arts and Sciences was founded in which city in 1780? A: Boston
Q: In which country was the painter Ford Madox Brown born? A: France
Q: Loosehead is a position in which sport? A: Rugby
Q: Which country had the Roman name Cambria? A: Wales
Q: What word, meaning something left in a will, refers to an old and incompatible organisational computing system? A: Legacy
Q: Alpha, Nevada and Snow Crown are types of which vegetable? A: Cauliflower
Q: What was the name of the Space Shuttle which exploded after take-off in January 1986? A: Challenger
Q: Which year saw the last commercial hovercraft English Channel crossing? A: 2000
Q: What is the medical condition Herpes Zoster commonly called? A: Shingles
Q: What breed of dog is known as the Carriage Dog (because they were trained to run with horse-drawn carriages as guard dogs)? A: Dalmatian
Q: In which country is Timbuktu? A: Mali
Q: What is the title of Thomas Hardy's last novel? A: Jude the Obscure
Q: Genuphobia is the irrational fear of what part of the body? A: Knee
Q: The North England town of Beverley is named after what creature? A: Beaver
Q: Köppen-Geiger is the name of a classification system for what? A: Climate
Q: The Greek word Xero (pronounced zero) in xerography and related terminology means what? A: Dry
Q: In astronomy and metaphorical language what is the opposite of zenith? A: Nadir
Q: What is the standard geometric name for a regular quadrilateral? A: Square
Q: What inventor was nicknamed The Wizard of Menlo Park? A: Thomas Edison
Q: In which year were car tax discs launched in the UK? A: 1921
Q: Diabolism is the worship of what? A: The Devil
Q: Who was the prime minister of Rhodesia from 1965-79? A: Ian Smith
Q: In the 2001 film Black Hawk Down what is the Black Hawk? A: Helicopter
Q: Which actor was the puppet character from TV's Stingray said to have been modelled on? A: James Garner
Q: Former FBI director W Mark Felt revealed himself in 2005 to be what codenamed whistleblower? A: Deep Throat
Q: What traditionally represents a fifth year wedding anniversary? A: Wood
Q: In physics what single word term normally represents 'rate of change of position'? A: Velocity
Q: What is the name of the blue rose unveiled by Japanese company Suntory in October 2009? A: Applause
Q: Who produced, directed and narrated the best film Oscar winning 1952 movie The Greatest Show On Earth? A: Cecil B deMille
Q: The Order of the British Empire was founded by which monarch? A: George the Fifth
Q: In the human body what is the common name for hemicrania? A: Migrane
Q: Which Beatle was first to become a grandfather? A: Ringo Starr
Q: Elsanta is a variety of which fruit? A: Strawberry
Q: What was the submarine developed by US engineer Robert Fulton in 1803? A: Nautilus
Q: Who captained the 2009 England women's cricket team? A: Charlotte Edwards
Q: The Buddy Holly song That'll Be the Day is said to have been inspired by what John Wayne film? A: The Searchers
Q: What animal is a brocket? A: Deer
Q: Which playing card is known as the Curse of Scotland? A: Nine of Diamonds
Q: What is the tenth and final day of the Hindu festival of Navrati called? A: Dussehra
Q: Who wrote the classic two-part 19th century German play Faust? A: Goethe
Q: Which British politician became MP for Finchley in 1959? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: What term did former Yahoo! vice-president and author Seth Godin originate whereby potential customers 'opt-in' to receive advertising? A: Permission marketing
Q: To whom are the words 'Veni Vidi Vici' attributed, after he defeated Pharnaces the Second of Pontus? A: Julius Caesar
Q: Which tough-guy actor was the voice of the dog Charlie B Barkin in the 1989 animated film All Dogs Go to Heaven? A: Burt Reynolds
Q: What term describes the now generally illegal practice requiring people to be members of a trade union before being employed by an organization? A: Closed shop
Q: What animal is a Bichon Frise? A: Dog
Q: In which part of the human body is the Eustachian Tube? A: Ear
Q: What is the craft of cutting and polishing stones or gems? A: Lapidary
Q: What consultancy firm devised the 7-S Framework corporate analysis model? A: McKinsey & Company
Q: Who wrote The Joy of Sex, published in 1972? A: Alex Comfort
Q: By which name was American artist Anna Mary Roberston Moses, who began painting in her 70s, better known? A: Grandma Moses
Q: Which rapper's real name is Curtis Jackson III? A: 50 Cent
Q: Used by ancient Greeks and Romans what is a pelta? A: Shield
Q: Pedagogy is the art or profession of what? A: Teaching
Q: Anna Kournikova, Michelangelo, ILOVEYOU, and Melissa were examples of what? A: Computer virus
Q: What is the short ladder made of webbing or rope used in mountaineering? A: Etrier
Q: What was the first Monty Python feature film? A: And Now For Something Completely Different
Q: What is the name of one full point in a Judo contest? A: Ippon
Q: In which German city is the Brandhorst museum? A: Munich
Q: The Palace of Knossos is on which Greek island? A: Crete
Q: What is Niccolo Machiavelli's famously fascinating book on the art of political leadership, published in 1532? A: The Prince
Q: Who was the first prime minister of Canada? A: Sir John MacDonald
Q: Balliol College is part of which British University? A: Oxford
Q: Which US state is known as the Magnolia State? A: Mississippi
Q: Carol Ann Duffy became the first woman what? A: British Poet Laureate
Q: The Greek word for moral character is the root of which English term referring to morals in business and professional activities? A: Ethics
Q: Katakana is a symbol system of which language? A: Japanese
Q: In which African country is Lake Turkana? A: Kenya
Q: Miliaria is the medical name for what condition? A: Prickly heat
Q: What colour are the flowers of the various plants known as Celandines? A: Yellow
Q: The Swiss Re Tower in London is commonly known by what name? A: The Gherkin
Q: What is the profession of Peter Kingdom in the UK TV series 'Kingdom'? A: Solicitor
Q: The Babbington Plot was devised to kill which English monarch? A: Queen Elizabeth the First
Q: What type of food is linguine? A: Pasta
Q: Who released a 1995 album called Stanley Road? A: Paul Weller
Q: In which decade did Queen Victoria's husband die? A: 1860s
Q: Which writer created the fictional detective Auguste Dupin? A: Edgar Allen Poe
Q: What is an animal called whose diet consists mainly of leaves? A: Folivore
Q: Carceral relates to what type of building? A: Prison
Q: How many vertebrae bones does a human usually have? A: Thirty-three
Q: What type of headwear is named after a hero in a Robert Burns poem? A: Tam O'Shanter
Q: What official reporting statement shows a company's financial situation, notably assets, at a point in time? A: Balance sheet
Q: What island was previously called Formosa? A: Taiwan
Q: In which UK city was artist L S Lowry born? A: Manchester
Q: Chitterlings are the small intestines of which animal? A: Pig
Q: "Which 1950s-60s sex symbol is reputed to have said, ""I started out as a lousy actress and have remained one""?" A: Brigitte Bardot
Q: Whose enormous yacht Eclipse launched in June 2009? A: Roman Abramovich
Q: Which singer was born Steven Demetre Georgiou? A: Yusuf Islam
Q: Columbus Day commemorating the discovery of America is celebrated in which month? A: October
Q: A Black or White what? refers to a company mounting respectively a hostile or a helpful takeover bid? A: Knight
Q: Named after the Spanish city which first produced it, Cordovan is what kind of material? A: Leather
Q: What is the term for a virtual barrier between two corporate departments, which often for legal reasons, must not share information? - Spanish fence; Chinese wall; Boston Barricade; or Bouquet of barbed wire. A: Chinese wall
Q: What is the title of the film in which Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter play a childless couple who kidnap on of a set of quintuplets? A: Raising Arizona
Q: What Latin warning phrase attempts to transfer risk to users or customers, meaning 'Buyer Beware'? A: Caveat Emptor
Q: In which year did US athlete Jesse Owens win four Olympic gold medals? A: 1936
Q: Owain Gwynedd of Wales defeated which English King in battle? A: Henry the second
Q: What was the Ed Sullivan Show originally called? A: Toast of the Town
Q: Who wrote the book The Woman in White? A: Wilkie Collins
Q: What word for a waterway refers to the distribution route by which a product or service reaches its customers? A: Channel
Q: In Italian cooking what are small dumplings made from potato, semolina, or flour? A: Gnocchi
Q: What does a carminative drug relieve? A: Flatulence
Q: What dairy term is used to describe turnover or loss of customers, usually expressed as an annual percentage? - butter; churn; cream; or cheese. A: Churn
Q: In Greek mythology what is the name of the youth loved and accidentally killed by Apollo, and from whose blood Apollo caused a flower to grow? A: Hyacinth
Q: What famous TV cook was called Phyllis Primrose-Pechey? A: Fanny Craddock
Q: What is the largest castle in Wales? A: Caerphilly
Q: What Greek word is commonly given to the public test launch of a software version or website? A: Beta
Q: What was Jodie Foster's character in the 1991 film Silence of the Lambs? A: Clarice Starling
Q: Who was the Roman god of thunder? A: Jupiter
Q: What type of vegetable is a kohlrabi? A: Cabbage
Q: A company or product which has high market share and continues to produce good returns requiring minimal investment is called a 'cash...' what? - well; cow; machine; or potato? A: Cow
Q: In which country are the Ajanta Caves? A: India
Q: A logrunner is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: What is the name of the triangle which has two equal sides and two equal angles? A: Isosceles
Q: What is a squirrel's nest called? A: Drey
Q: Who is the world's most stolen artist? A: Picasso
Q: In which month is the Vernal Equinox? A: March
Q: Tolo TV is which country's leading independent TV company (as at 2010)? A: Afghanistan
Q: """Fasten your seatbelts, it's going to be a bumpy night,"" is a Bette Davis line from which film?" A: All About Eve
Q: Who founded the Amazon website? A: Jeff Bezos
Q: What figurative construction expression refers to an unfair barrier to career advancement, especially for females and minorities? A: Glass ceiling
Q: In 1791 George Hammond was appointed the first British envoy to which country? A: USA
Q: A grimoire is a book of what? A: Magic spells
Q: The UK's Inns of Court is made up of how many legal societies? A: Four
Q: Pianist and composer Frederic Chopin was born in which country? A: Poland
Q: Ophidiophobia is an abnormal fear of what creatures? A: Snakes
Q: Who painted a self-portrait called Bandaged Ear and Pipe? A: Vincent Van Gogh
Q: What are the feathers on an arrow called? A: Fletching
Q: Gingivitis is the inflammation of which part of the human body? A: Gums
Q: Who wrote the novel Ivanhoe? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: Who became leader of the British National Party in 1999? A: Nick Griffin
Q: An isohyet or isohyetal line on a map connects two points having the same what? A: Rainfall
Q: Lollo Rosso is a variety of which vegetable? A: Lettuce
Q: What is the portmanteau word (a two-word combination) for a symbol of feeling, used in electronic messages? A: Emoticon
Q: In which London park is the Albert Memorial? A: Hyde Park
Q: The city of Akron is in which US state? A: Ohio
Q: Kimchi is a traditional dish of which country? A: Korea
Q: In Greek mythology how many labours did Hercules have to perform? A: Twelve
Q: Born James Newell Osterberg, who performed Lust for Life, used notably in the Trainspotting soundtrack? A: Iggy Pop
Q: Hyalite is a variety of which semi-precious gemstone? A: Opal
Q: A hi-hat is part of which musical instrument? A: Drums
Q: Who won the 2009 German Formula One Grand Prix? A: Mark Webber
Q: Who devised the Expectancy Theory of motivation? A: Victor Vroom
Q: Domenikos Theotokopoulos is the real name of which painter and sculptor? A: El Greco
Q: Omophagy is the eating of what? A: Raw meat
Q: Peter de la Mare was first to hold what office in the House of Commons? A: Speaker
Q: St Petersburg in Russia lies on which river? A: Neva
Q: """All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players,"" is from which Shakespeare play?" A: As You Like It
Q: Which car maker produces a model called the Veyron? A: Bugatti
Q: What does a fromologist collect? A: Cheese labels
Q: In squash or racquetball what is the shot played into a side or back wall before hitting the front wall? A: Boast
Q: What traditional term from the late 1800s refers to the difference between a price paid for a company or business, and the actual (lower) 'book value' of its assets? A: Goodwill
Q: In what part of the human body are the malleus, incus, and stapes? A: Ear
Q: The volcanic mountain Chimborazo is in which South American country? A: Ecuador
Q: What warlike term refers to a person or agency operating in the field of executive search? A: Headhunter
Q: In which country was the inventor Alexander Graham Bell born? A: Scotland
Q: What ceremony is performed beneath a chuppah? A: Marriage
Q: Whose paintings included Woman with a Hat, The Open Window, and Bathers with a Turtle? A: Henri Matisse
Q: In which country is the city Invercargill? A: New Zealand
Q: What is the Chilean Pine more commonly known as? A: Monkey Puzzle Tree
Q: What US state is known as the Nutmeg State? A: Connecticut
Q: What past US president's autobiography is called Where's the Rest of Me? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What is the Irish game played with a stick having a broad oval blade and a ball called a sliothar (or sliotar)? A: Hurling
Q: Autumn King and St Valery are which types of vegetables? A: Carrot
Q: What wind instrument has a variety known as a sweet potato? A: Ocarina
Q: Who was the only female character to appear in every series of UK TV's 'Auf Wiedersehn, Pet'? A: Brenda
Q: The word logo is thought ultimately to derive from the Greek word lógos; what does lógos mean? A: Word
Q: The Curzon Line was the demarcation line between which two countries? A: Russia and Poland
Q: What is the Urdu-based western name for the tobacco water-pipe known in Arabic as a shisha and in Turkish as a nargile? A: Hookah
Q: Who became Secretary General of the United Nations in 2007? A: Ban Ki-Moon
Q: In the Roman Catholic church what name is given to the form of prayers said on nine consecutive days? A: Novena
Q: What crowd-pleasing song and album title did British folk act Show of Hands derive from a 'reverse acronym' of the collapsed bank AIG? A: Arrogance Ignorance and Greed
Q: English novelist Mary Anne Evans is better known by what name? A: George Eliot
Q: In what ocean are the Pitcairn Islands, where the Bounty mutineers settled? A: Pacific
Q: The words 'domo arigato' mean 'thank you' in what language? A: Japanese
Q: What hit song by the Crash Test Dummies comprised four three-letter words all containing the same letter? A: Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm
Q: What year is represented by the Roman numerals MCMXCIX? A: 1999
Q: What stage character is based on a real life medieval merchant, politician and Mayor of London? A: Dick Whittington
Q: What country was previously called Abyssinia? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Evzones (meaning 'well-girded', a word apparently first recorded by Homer) are an elite ceremonial infantry unit in which European country? A: Greece
Q: What ironic term describes the practice of business executives visiting the factory floor or other front-line work, abbreviated to MBWA? A: Management By Walking Around
Q: What is the state capital of Western Australia? A: Perth
Q: A copita is a glass traditionally used for drinking what? A: Sherry
Q: The 1797 Treaty of Campo Formio was signed by Napoleon Bonaparte of France and Count Ludwig von Cobenzl of which country? A: Austria
Q: A square hectare of land would have sides of how many metres each? A: One hundred
Q: Lazar Ludwick Zamenhof invented which language? A: Esperanto
Q: What is the full name of the leading scientific and technological research university referred to as MIT? A: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Q: On a chess board at the start of play what piece is between the queen and its closest knight? A: Bishop
Q: What term describes computer software or its code which is free to use and adapt, based on a philosophy of improvement through sharing and collaboration? A: Open Source
Q: A monorchid has one what? A: Testicle
Q: Winnipeg is the capital city of which Canadian province? A: Manitoba
Q: What is the seven or nine branch candelabrum, of which the Jewish hanukiah (or chanukkiyah) is a type? A: Menorah
Q: In golf what slang refers to a free extra stroke sometimes allowed informally after a poor shot, typically off the first tee? A: Mulligan
Q: A logomachy is a dispute over what? A: Words
Q: Stonehenge is in which UK county? A: Wiltshire
Q: Blenny, damsel, hamlet, goby and grunt are varieties of what living things? A: Fish
Q: What is the Hindi greeting and salutation also used by many Westerners engaging in Indian cultural activities and philosophies? A: Namaste
Q: Suggestions from the 'politically correct' community occasionally call for what creative group process to be renamed 'Thought Showers'? A: Brainstorming
Q: From what language does the phrase Kia Ora come? A: Maori
Q: What one of these is a metallic chemical element? Brass, Barium, Steel, Sterling Silver, Pewter? A: Barium
Q: The energy of what is measured by the Richter magnitude scale? A: Earthquakes
Q: At a 2010 Cheltenham festival Katie Walsh received a four day ban for excessive use of what? A: The whip
Q: What flower is the national emblem of Wales? A: Daffodil
Q: What is the German equivalent of the British 'Ltd' and the American 'LLC' company designations (meaning Limited Company)? A: GmbH
Q: The Followill brothers and cousin, known by their middle names Nathan, Caleb, Jared and Matthew, are members of which rock band? A: Kings of Leon
Q: What trade union was deplored by Gordon Brown for its actions in the 2010 British Airways cabin staff dispute? A: Unite
Q: In Rugby Union what position does the number 15 play? A: Full-back
Q: The 6th century book attributed to Sun Tzu often appied to leadership is called The Art of... what? A: War
Q: Valentine and Proteus are the central characters in what Shakespeare play? A: Two Gentlemen of Verona
Q: What organization famously distributes bibles to hotel rooms? A: The Gideons
Q: Often called 'The Lost City of the Incas', the 15th century ruins of Machu Picchu are in which country? A: Peru
Q: Where in the human body are the metacarpals? A: Hand
Q: ISO 9000 and its series of international quality management system standards used in industry and commerce, effectively superseded what British Standard number? A: BS5750
Q: What country comprises the peninsula of Jutland and over 400 islands including Zealand and Funen? A: Denmark
Q: Sunningdale golf club is in which county of the UK? A: Berkshire
Q: What is the seventh letter of the Greek alphabet, and also a terrorist organization? A: Eta
Q: What is the website address of the United Nations? A: www.un.org
Q: The word piste, referring to a ski-run, means literally what in French? A: Track
Q: What health-related metaphor refers to a form of internet marketing which spreads from user to user on a wide scale? A: Viral
Q: What unusual and distinctive item of apparel does the Bazooka Joe bubblegum character wear? A: Eye patch
Q: What is the longest line of latitude on the Earth? A: Equator
Q: Pisciculture is the breeding and rearing of what? A: Fish
Q: Which artist is famous for painting at the Moulin Rouge? A: Toulouse-Lautrec
Q: What long-necked instrument, now usually with four pairs of strings, originated in Greece and is still popularly associated with Greek music? A: Bouzouki
Q: Who was the first driver to be knighted for his services to motor sport? A: Jack Brabham
Q: The Davis Strait lies between Baffin Island and which country (also considered a dependency)? A: Greenland
Q: January King, Meteor, and Salarite are varieties of which vegetable? A: Cabbage
Q: The city of Breda is in which European country? A: Netherlands
Q: Sitophobia is the fear of what? A: Food
Q: Mount Elbrus (5,642 metres) is the highest mountain in which continent? A: Europe
Q: Who became president of the USA in 1989? A: George Bush, Senior
Q: Nicholas Rowe's 1703 play The Fair Penitent originated what character, whose name has since referred to a seducer of women? A: Lothario
Q: Dresden china originated in which country? A: Germany
Q: Brothers Harry, Samuel, Albert and Jack established which film company in 1923? A: Warner Brothers
Q: In Greek mythology what are the goddesses or spirits which inspire the creation of literature and the arts? A: Muses
Q: Coober Pedy, the largest opal mine in the world, is in which country? A: Australia
Q: The suffix 'stan' in a country's name such as Afghanistan derives from what early Indo-European meaning? A: Stand
Q: What is the name of the shallow circular transparent dish with a flat lid, used for the culture of micro-organisms? A: Petri dish
Q: Which is the only city to lie in two continents? A: Istanbul
Q: Selhurst Park is the home ground of which English football club? A: Crystal Palace
Q: What is the name of the substance obtained from the dried swim bladders of fish, used in brewing and winemaking? A: Isinglass
Q: Which US state is known as the Sunflower State? A: Kansas
Q: Heliotherapy is the therapeutic use of what? A: Sunlight
Q: What Latin term is used to mean 'word for word', or 'exactly the same words'? A: Verbatim
Q: What memorable song line from American Pie by Don McLean refers to the day a plane crash killed Buddy Holly, Richie Valens and The Big Bopper? A: The Day the Music Died
Q: Michelle Robinson is the maiden name of which famous wife? A: Michelle Obama
Q: Offaly, Westmeath, Carlow and Cavan are counties of which country? A: Ireland
Q: The Shore Durometer devised by Albert Shore in the 1920s measures what quality of materials such as rubber and plastics? A: Hardness
Q: A heptahedron is a solid figure with how many plane sides? A: Seven
Q: A cope is a long ceremonial cloak worn by a member of what profession? A: Clergy
Q: Who was the next president of the USA after Gerald Ford? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: Ichthyology is the study of what? A: Fish
Q: What country has the largest forested area? A: Russia
Q: What element has the highest melting point of any metal - symbol W, otherwise known as wolfram? A: Tungsten
Q: Arthur Wellesley (1769-1845) is better known by what title? A: The Duke of Wellington
Q: In what state is the highest mountain in the USA? A: Alaska
Q: Credited with popularising the girl's name Wendy in a famous children's book, who also wrote the stage play The Admirable Crichton? A: J M Barrie
Q: Hilary, Easter, Trinity and Michaelmas are traditional English (and Welsh) seasonal names in what? A: Law courts
Q: Which painting was stolen from the Louvre in Paris in 1911 and kept for two years by museum employee Vincenzo Peruggia? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Which British prime minister wrote History of the English Speaking Peoples? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Loperamide is used to treat what medical condition? A: Diarrhoea
Q: St James's Palace in London was commissioned by which British monarch? A: Henry the Eighth
Q: Technically a berry or fruit, brinjal is the Indian name for which 'vegetable'? A: Aubergine
Q: The Irish Derby is held at which racecourse? A: The Curragh
Q: The cephalothorax and the opisthosoma are body sections of what? A: Arachnids
Q: Born Betty Joan Perske, which actress starred in The Big Sleep and To Have and Have Not? A: Lauren Bacall
Q: In which European city is the Charles Bridge? A: Prague
Q: What nation won the European Football Championship after first failing to qualify for the finals tournament? A: Denmark
Q: US Aviator Lawrence Burst Sperry (1892-1923) has attracted suggestions of being the founder of the 'Mile High Club' due to his invention of which flight aid? A: Autopilot
Q: Who wrote the novel The French Lieutenant's Woman? A: John Fowles
Q: How many grams are in a hectogram? A: One hundred
Q: Which is the only Charles Dickens novel with a female narrator? A: Bleak House
Q: Copoclephily is the collecting of what? A: Keyrings
Q: Budapest lies on which river? A: Danube
Q: Who was the 20th US president, the second to be assassinated, and the second shortest serving? A: James Garfield
Q: Otoplasty is the surgical alteration of what external body parts? A: Ears
Q: Which animal represents the Chinese year 2010? A: Tiger
Q: What same three words are in the titles of biographical books about Ronald Reagan, Sarah Palin, Ben Hogan, Benjamin Franklin, Condoleeza Rice and Dr Spock? A: An American Life
Q: A Gibus or Chapeau Claque is what sort of top hat, originally popular at the opera? A: Collapsible
Q: By what name is footballer Edison Arantes do Nascimento better known? A: Pelé
Q: In which European country is the Caledonian Canal? A: Scotland
Q: In 1725 King George the First created what British chivalric honour, whose original ceremony entailed bodily cleansing? A: Order of Bath
Q: In astrology the constellation Leo represents the Lion slain by whom? A: Hercules
Q: Whom did Pat Cash defeat in the 1987 Wimbledon Men's Singles Final? A: Ivan Lendl
Q: Ergophobia is the irrational fear or what? A: Working
Q: What spirit usually goes into the making of a mint julep? A: Bourbon
Q: What is the chemical name for Laughing Gas? A: Nitrous oxide
Q: The Great Train Robbery of 1963 was close to what Buckinghamshire county town, which later hosted its criminal trial? A: Aylesbury
Q: The cauliflower was first cultivated on or in the region of what island? A: Cyprus
Q: On 1st April 1980 a 25-day riot and siege began at what UK prison? A: Strangeways
Q: What Munich festival, claimed to be world's largest Volksfest (People's Fair), attracts over six million visitors each year? A: Oktoberfest
Q: Which musician called his children Moon Unit and Dweezil? A: Frank Zappa
Q: The 'Reign of Terror', 1793-94, was a particularly violent political period in which country? A: France
Q: What York-based Quaker family created several substantial social reform trusts as a legacy of its chocolate business? A: Rowntree
Q: The original Greek meaning of the word Hippodrome was what? A: Horse race
Q: What does a cruciverbalist make? A: Crossword puzzles
Q: The Holy See is the highest earthly authority of what religion? A: Roman Catholic
Q: An expanded and renamed Schonefeld airport is a replacement for Tegel airport in which European city? A: Berlin
Q: What car maker's name means 'roll' in Latin? A: Volvo
Q: "Whom did Maragaret Thatcher describe as ""...The man who paints those dreadful pictures...""?" A: Francis Bacon
Q: In which large gland of the human body where are the Islets of Langerhans? A: Pancreas
Q: Which actor was born Issur Danielovitch? A: Kirk Douglas
Q: Au Poivre describes a dish involving what spice in its cooking or sauce? A: Pepper
Q: The Gaudi designed Sagrada Familia church, whose construction began in 1882 and is unlikely to finish before 2026, is in which European city? A: Barcelona
Q: Brian Mulroney was the prime minister of which country? A: Canada
Q: Giles Andreae created which popular greeting card character, also used in a Vimto advertising campaign? A: Purple Ronnie
Q: What is the two-handled curved blade used for mincing herbs and vegetables, which in Italian means 'half-moon'? A: Mezzaluna
Q: A mohel is a Jewish man trained in the practice of what? A: Circumcision
Q: Who carried the British flag at the closing ceremony of the 2004 Summer Olympic Games? A: Kelly Holmes
Q: How many degrees is each angle in an equilateral triangle? A: Sixty
Q: Keflavik International Airport is in which country? A: Iceland
Q: Which politician, buried in Westminster Abbey in 1833, campaigned for more than 50 years against British slavery? A: William Wilberforce
Q: Cambridge Late Pine, Redgauntlet and Elsanta are varieties of what fruit? A: Strawberry
Q: "Who wrote the lines, ""Tyger! Tyger! burning bright, In the forests of the night..."" ?" A: William Blake
Q: What word, meaning 'crown' in Latin, refers to a visible electrical discharge and a planetary halo? A: Corona
Q: Before 'Poppy Appeal' what words appeared on the central black buttons of poppies sold in Poppy Appeal in the UK every year? A: Haig Fund
Q: Who first published and popularised the stories Snow White, Cinderella, Rumpelstiltskin, Rapunzel, Sleeping Beauty and Red Riding Hood? A: The Brothers Grimm
Q: What creature is a pismire? A: Ant
Q: What is the square root of two-hundred and eighty-nine? A: Seventeen
Q: Yukon and Nunavut are Federal Territories of which country? A: Canada
Q: What is the traditional name for a spot on a domino? A: Pip
Q: A 'Coney Island whitefish' is slang for a what? A: A discarded condom
Q: What word for a wild or half-tamed horse derives from the Spanish word for rough wood and specifically a knot in wood? A: Bronco
Q: Who against huge odds knocked defending champion John Higgins out of the 2010 World Snooker Championship? A: Steve Davis
Q: In what European city is the historic port of Piraeus? A: Athens
Q: Nicholas Briggs is the long-time voice of which TV evil force? A: The Daleks
Q: The Roman numerals DCLXVI equate to what number? A: 666
Q: What event attracted the highest UK TV audience of the 1990s? A: Princess Diana's Funeral
Q: The Chapman Root Glass Company was responsible for what 1915 iconic design nicknamed the 'hobble skirt' and 'Mae West'? A: Coca-Cola bottle
Q: Which of the Brontë sisters wrote the novel 'The Tenant of Wildfell Hall'? A: Anne Brontë
Q: A clowder is a collective term for which creatures? A: Cats
Q: Which early British rock'n'roll star was Og the leprechaun in the 1968 film Finian's Rainbow? A: Tommy Steele
Q: Which British football team is nicknamed the Blades? A: Sheffield United
Q: The colour of the moon's sky, seen from the moon, is always the same, what is it? A: Black
Q: What is the name of the gland in the human body attached to the base of the brain important in controlling growth? A: Pituitary gland
Q: In which US state is the annual Burning Man Festival held? A: Nevada
Q: Chladni patterns are formed when a surface covered in what is made to vibrate? A: Sand
Q: What is the state capital of Victoria, Australia? A: Melbourne
Q: The Manzanares river runs through which city? A: Madrid
Q: Name the Rochdale pensioner whom Gordon Brown was heard to call 'a sort of bigoted woman' after meeting her on a pre-election walkabout? A: Gillian Duffy
Q: Metrophobia informally refers to the irrational fear or hatred of what? A: Poetry
Q: USA athletes refused their silver medals at the 1972 Summer Olympics in which men's sport? A: Basketball
Q: In which European city is The Council of Europe? A: Strasbourg
Q: If something is coriaceous, what does it resemble or have the texture of? A: Leather
Q: In which country is the city of Mecca? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: A lustrum is a period of how many years? A: Five
Q: A diptych is a painting or altarpiece of how many panels, commonly hinged together? A: Two
Q: What Maryland presidential retreat, previously called Shangri-la, was renamed by Dwight D Eisenhower after his grandson? A: Camp David
Q: In the 1983 horror film 'Christine', what was Christine? A: A car
Q: Which part of a woman's body is named after German physician Ernst Grafenberg? A: G-spot
Q: In 1997 the Royal Academy of Art controversially exhibited a 1995 portrait of which convicted murderer, made from children's handprints, by Marcus Harvey? A: Myra Hindley
Q: What is the most common natural pollinator of the pineapple? A: Hummingbirds
Q: What geographic term for a bay derives originally from the Greek word kolpos meaning bosom? A: Gulf
Q: A symbol comprising three dots, which if joined form an upright equilateral triangle, represents what word? A: Therefore
Q: What is the main element of pewter, used for tableware and vases, etc? A: Tin
Q: The tennis club which hosts the Wimbledon Championships was founded originally in 1868 for playing which sport? A: Croquet
Q: In which city is the Galileo Galilei airport? A: Pisa
Q: Who is the only woman, up until 2010, ever to have run for leadership of the British Labour Party? A: Margaret Beckett
Q: Richard Beckinsale's character Alan Moore featured in which in UK TV series? A: Rising Damp
Q: Which Caribbean island, especially capital city Plymouth, suffered long term devastation after the previously dormant Soufriere Hills Volcano began erupting in 1995? A: Montserrat
Q: Bibliomania is the compulsive collecting or hoarding of what? A: Books
Q: Name the Green Party leader and its first parliamentary MP, who won the Brighton Pavilion seat in the UK May 2010 general election? A: Caroline Lucas
Q: In 1834 who invented raised point writing using a six dot system enabling the blind to read? A: Louis Braille
Q: Whose state funeral was on 15 December 1840, nineteen years after his death and burial in an unmarked grave? A: Napoleon Bonaparte
Q: What word, orginally meaning female slave in Greek, refers to a woman who gives support and help to a pregnant woman before, during and after childbirth? A: Doula
Q: In Japan the word Mikado originally referred to what? A: The emperor
Q: What country's name derives from an Iroquois word for village? A: Canada
Q: What is a car marque, a software company and the national flower of Egypt? A: Lotus
Q: Which Shakespeare character is known as The Moor of Venice? A: Othello
Q: What is the previous and common alternative name of the Indian city Mumbai? A: Bombay
Q: Which city, home to Coca-Cola HQ, hosted the 1996 Summer Olympic games? A: Atlanta
Q: What ball is worth three points in snooker? A: Green
Q: Name Francis Drake's ship, in which he circumnavigated the globe, 1577-80? A: Golden Hind
Q: What skin and eye colouring is associated with jaundice? A: Yellow
Q: What is Mick Hucknell's band? A: Simply Red
Q: Hyacinthoides is the scientific name for what protected (in the UK) spring flowering plant? A: Bluebell
Q: The equal combination of green and blue light, and the C in CMYK color printing, are what? A: Cyan
Q: If this were a cryptic crossword clue it could be 'Poetic Irish county'? A: Limerick
Q: What is a tone of photography which results from or gives the effect of age? A: Sepia
Q: What sea has the port city Arkhangelsk (Archangel in English) and Onega Bay? A: White Sea
Q: What comes from the seed of the tropical Theobroma cacao tree? A: Chocolate
Q: What semi-precious stone decorated Tutankhamun's burial mask, and is the colour of the American Robin's eggs? A: Turquoise
Q: What is normally green, but can be yellow too, after a French herbal liqueur, introduced by Carthusian Monks in the 1700s? A: Chartreuse
Q: What colour is Tyrian, a dye highly prized by the Romans? A: Purple
Q: Name the London borough and Royal Observatory site which marks international time? A: Greenwich
Q: Prince Andrew served for twenty-two years with what organization? A: Royal Navy
Q: What pigment especially associated with oil painting, derives its name from heat treatment and a Tuscany city? A: Burnt Sienna
Q: The TV presenter and journalist born Kim Taylor in November 1960 is better known by what name? A: Magenta Devine
Q: Caroline Lucas is head of what UK organization? A: The Green Party
Q: Who was English King from 1650-1702? A: William of Orange
Q: What college in New Cross is part of the University of London? A: Goldsmiths
Q: Name the low-cost private domestic airline based in Gurgaon, Haryana, India? A: IndiGo Airlines
Q: The Whirlwind is which snooker player's nickname? A: Jimmy White
Q: Which Formula One Grand Prix Circuit includes Maggotts Corner, Wellington Straight, and Farm Curve? A: Silverstone
Q: What is shade of brown derives from the Latin name for the European Mole, and is (according to Wikipedia) the most popular colour of leather sofas? A: Taupe
Q: What colour is a 'double-word' square on a Scrabble board? A: Pink
Q: What is prestigious and precious and has the ISO currency code of XPT? A: Platinum
Q: What is the dabbling duck whose Common 'eye-patched' variety is the smallest of all dabblers? A: Teal
Q: What instrument, named from the Italian word for small, is traditionally considered to be the highest-pitched in an orchestra? A: Piccolo
Q: What controversial artist designed the Chupa Chups lollipop logo? A: Salvador Dali
Q: What is the famous eastern seaboard of Nicaragua and south Honduras, named after its Native American Indian people, and more commonly known in its westernized misunderstood form? A: The Miskito Coast
Q: During which war was the Battle of Anzio? A: The Second World War
Q: The port of Drammen is in which European country? A: Norway
Q: What measure of thermal resistance used in the textile industry is said to derive from the name of a Roman garment? A: Tog
Q: David Cameron, Boris Johnson, Ludovic Kennedy and David Dimbleby are among the past members of which exclusive and hedonistic Oxford club? A: The Bullingdon Club
Q: What nickname was given to the artificial life form created in 2010 by US biologist Craig Venter? A: Synthia
Q: Spencer Perceval (1762-1812) is the only British Prime Minister to have been what? A: Assassinated
Q: Which singer and actor's epitaph is 'The Best is Yet to Come'? A: Frank Sinatra
Q: Mirabelle is a variety of which fruit? A: Plum
Q: In which year was the Euro, the single European currency, introduced into the world financial markets? A: 1999
Q: What colour is the mineral rock malachite? A: Green
Q: Which painter is known as The Father of Impressionism? A: Claude Monet
Q: Name the exotic dancer who performed with the band Hawkwind in the 1970s? A: Stacia
Q: The UK Advertising Standards Authority announced what bus poster advert had attracted the highest number of complaints in 2009? A: The Christian Party 'There definitely is a God'
Q: Who was the mother of King Edward the Sixth (1537-1553)? A: Jane Seymour
Q: What gas do humans breathe out? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: Which 19th century poet and novelist, when age twenty-six, married his thirteen year old cousin? A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: The artist El Greco was born on which Greek island? A: Crete
Q: The Gaillard Cut is part of which canal connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans? A: Panama Canal
Q: You might see a Haka at a game of what? A: Rugby
Q: Which US president is depicted on the Purple Heart medal? A: George Washington
Q: With varieties including Gutedel in Germany, and Pierre Galet in Switzerland, Chasselas is a variety of which fruit? A: Grape
Q: Morbilli is the technical term for which childhood illness? A: Measles
Q: Native to Australia, what creature is a pardalote (which in Greek means 'spotted')? A: Bird
Q: The world's largest electricity generating plant (as at 2010), the Three Gorges Dam, is in which country? A: China
Q: Cryptozoology refers to the study of creatures which are? A: Mythical
Q: In the 1991 film Reservoir Dogs, Michael Madson played which character? Mr Blonde; Mr Orange; or Mr Brown? A: Mr Blonde
Q: Ombrophobia is an irrational fear of what? A: Rain
Q: Russian musician Maxim Vengerov is famous for playing which instrument? A: Violin
Q: Who wrote the play, Look Back In Anger? A: John Osborne
Q: Chicago's St Valentine's Day Massacre (of seven Bugs Moran gang members by those of Al Capone) was in which year? A: 1929
Q: How many Grand Slam doubles (including mixed doubles) titles did Martina Navratilova win? A: 41
Q: Which chemical element was once used (with hindsight, irresponsibly and dangerously) in luminous markings on watches, clocks and instrument dials? A: Radium
Q: Myosis affects which part of the human body? A: Eye
Q: Leoprine relates to which animals? A: Hares
Q: English novelist William Godwin fathered which novelist daughter? A: Mary Shelley
Q: Hangi is a traditional New Zealand Maori method of cooking using a? A: Pit
Q: 2009 was the Chinese Year of the what? A: Ox
Q: Which famous 18th century English theologian and chemist pioneered the discovery of oxygen? A: Joseph Priestley
Q: In 1958, Maria Teresa de Filippis was the first woman to compete in which sport? A: Formula One Grand Prix
Q: What colour is the No 5 engine James, featured in the Thomas the Tank Engine stories? A: Red
Q: Queen Victoria was proclaimed Empress of which country in 1877? A: India
Q: Notaphily is the collecting of what? A: Banknotes
Q: Which Cornish castle is said to be the birth place of King Arthur? A: Tintagel
Q: Translating as 'place of the way' what Japanese word describes a facility for teaching physical skills such as martial arts? A: Dojo
Q: Kenneth Moore portrayed which famous 2nd World War fighter pilot in the 1956 film Reach for the Sky? A: Douglas Bader
Q: In botany, if a plant is monocarpic what does it do only once? A: Bear fruit
Q: Penalty shoot-outs were introduced to the FIFA World Cup in which tournament (state the year of the Finals)? A: 1978
Q: What is the call-sign name of the US presidential helicopter? A: Marine One
Q: Which English county is the setting for most of painter John Constable's works? A: Suffolk
Q: What is the name of Long John Silver's parrot in the novel Treasure Island? A: Captain Flint
Q: Used in riot control, what is a lachrymator commonly known as? A: Tear gas
Q: The Blarney Stone is in which county of the Republic of Ireland? A: Cork
Q: What, in 1961, was the first animated cartoon TV show to be nominated for an Emmy? A: The Flintstones
Q: """A floating object displaces its own weight in fluid"" is essentially what principle?" A: The Archimedes Principle
Q: Shah Jahan of India had what built as his wife's tomb? A: The Taj Mahal
Q: What did Irish Colonel Thomas Blood attempt to steal in May 1671? A: The Crown Jewels
Q: Which TV character worked for Gateman, Goodbury and Graves funeral parlour? A: Herman Munster
Q: A flittermouse is an old term for which type of creature? A: Bat
Q: Robert Hawke was the prime minister of which country? A: Australia
Q: What modern technology term derives from the Czechoslovakian word for 'forced labour'? A: Robot
Q: The term perciforme, representing the largest order of vertebrates, refers to which backboned creatures? A: Fish
Q: In bullfighting, what is the specific name of the horseman who jabs the bull with a lance, mainly to weaken it? A: Picador
Q: In which James Bond film did the character Francisco Scaramanga appear? A: The Man With The Golden Gun
Q: Exophthalmic Goitre is the medical term for which disease? A: Graves Disease
Q: What does a charcutier sell? A: Meat
Q: Used in cause-and-effect analysis, due to its structure the Ishikawa diagram is more commonly called a 'what' diagram? A: Fishbone
Q: What album title does England footballer Wayne Rooney have tattooed on his right forearm? A: Just Enough Education To Perform
Q: In which country is the spectacular 1650 stone-built 23-arch Khaju Bridge? A: Iran
Q: What is the plug of tobacco ash left in a pipe after it has been smoked? A: Dottle
Q: How many stars in total are on the national flags of Australia, China, and Pakistan? A: Twelve
Q: In which year was the Suez Canal opened? A: 1869
Q: Miss Rosa Dartle is a character in which Charles Dickens novel? A: David Copperfield
Q: The Red Lake Mine, said to produce the richest gold ore in the world is in which country? A: Canada
Q: How many cards are dealt to each player at the start of a game of Blackjack or Pontoon? A: Two
Q: In male nobility what title is conventionally regarded to be the next level below that of Emperor? A: King
Q: What is the name of the outer plasma atmosphere of the sun, visible with the naked eye during an eclipse? A: Corona
Q: "The label on a Jack Daniel's whiskey bottle refers to ""Old No. 'what number' Brand""?" A: 7
Q: Al Maghrib - a common shortening of al-Mamlaka al-Magribiyya ('The Western Kingdom') - is the local name for which country? A: Morocco
Q: In Greek mythology, who did Leander fall in love with and swim every night across the Hellespont to be with? A: Hero
Q: Which UK TV series featured the fictional relocation of the Middlesborough Transporter Bridge to Arizona, prompting worried phone calls to the local council and forcing the broadcaster to clarify that the storyline was not real? A: Auf Wiedersehen Pet
Q: What number is between 9 and 11 on a regulation dartboard? A: 14
Q: Which war artist, and later a famous sculptor, produced a notable series of drawings depicting people sheltering in London Underground railway stations during the Blitz bombings of 1940-41? A: Henry Moore
Q: Which British politician was formerly known as 2nd Viscount Stansgate? A: Tony Benn
Q: Speleology is the study of what? A: Caves
Q: What is the chemical compound C6H12O6 better known as? A: Glucose
Q: "Which word best meets the definition ""The incline of the stage floor (or the theatre floor) away from the horizontal (lower at the downstage end)""?" A: Rake
Q: In 1962, who starred in the first of the longest-running series of films with the same main character? A: Sean Connery
Q: Who was killed when his private plane crashed in Monterey Bay, California in 1997? A: John Denver
Q: What was the family name of the rulers of Russia from 1613 to 1917? A: Romanoff
Q: Digitalis is a genus of about 20 species of herbaceous perennials, shrubs, and biennials that are commonly called ? A: Foxglove
Q: Who won the FIFA World Cup for Association Football in Germany in 2006? A: Italy
Q: What is the capital city of New York state in the USA? A: Albany
Q: Which word means to move a camera, lighting effect or sound effect vertically? A: Tilt
Q: To what did the light-heavyweight boxer Cassius Clay change his name? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: Syd Barrett was a founding member of which band? A: Pink Floyd
Q: In which city did American colonists dump tea imported from England into a harbour in 1773? A: Boston
Q: Which British scientist is best known for his study of gravitation, his work on the spectrum, his statement on the laws of motion, the construction of telescopes, and his work on geometry and differential calculus? A: Isaac Newton
Q: "Which ragtime pianist, between 1894 and 1915, composed tunes such as ""The Entertainer"" that became popular in 1973 after being included in the film ""The Sting""?" A: Scott Joplin
Q: Which Liverpudlian was Prime Minister of Great Britain four times in the 19th century? A: William Gladstone
Q: Which island territory is a self-governing unincorporated territory of the U S A? A: Puerto Rico
Q: Queen Salote Tubou ruled over which country from 1918 to 1965? A: Tonga
Q: "What game is also known as ""Literati"", ""Alfapet"", ""Funworder"", ""Skip-A-Cross"", ""Spelofun"", ""Palabras Cruzadas"" and ""Word for Word""?." A: Scrabble
Q: In Greek legend, Ulysses sailed safely between what? A: Scylla and Charybdis
Q: How many claws does a cat have? A: 18
Q: Which British band, a four-piece when it formed in the early 1960's, is still touring although only the singer and guitarist/composer, are still alive? A: The Who
Q: Which German-born political scientist and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize served as National Security Advisor and later concurrently as Secretary of State in the Richard Nixon administration? A: Henry Kissinger
Q: In which city did Rosa Parks refuse to obey a bus drivers order to give up her seat for a white passenger on December 1, 1955, becoming an important symbol of the modern Civil Rights Movement? A: Montgomery, Alabama
Q: Who was the 17th century English architect who designed St Paul's cathedral, London? A: Christopher Wren
Q: In draughts, what is a counter called when it reaches the opposite end of the board and another piece is put on top? A: King
Q: What car, intended as a competitor to the Ford Mustang, was unveiled at a press conference by Chevrolet on 12 September 1966? A: Camaro
Q: What is a large semi-aquatic rodent native to Canada, much of the United States, and parts of northern Mexico that constructs homes out of sticks, twigs, and mud in lakes or streams? A: Beaver
Q: Superman spent his adult life in which city? A: Metropolis
Q: Which film, Alfred Hitchcock's first as producer as well as director, starred Cary Grant, working with Hitchcock for the first time, and Joan Fontaine, who won Best Actress Oscar for it? A: Suspicion
Q: "In which country was Pol Pot Prime Minister from 1976 to 1979 and leader of the communist movement known as the ""Khmer Rouge""?" A: Cambodia
Q: Who was found guilty of the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy in 1963? A: Sirhan Bishara Sirhan
Q: Backgammon is a game for how many players? A: 2
Q: What fraction, having 10 or a multiple thereof as the denominator, is represented by a full stop? A: Decimal
Q: In which Australian city can be found the suburbs of Indooroopilly, Jamboree Heights, Jindalee and Kangaroo Point? A: Brisbane
Q: "The phrase ""beyond the pale"" refers to the history of which country?" A: Ireland
Q: What is the baseball term coined by Henry Chadwick to collectively call the pitcher and the catcher? A: The battery
Q: Which tuber of the nightshade family was cultivated by the Incas, was taken to Spain from Peru in the 16th century and to Ireland from Virginia in the 16th century? A: Potato
Q: Which English-born sculptor is best known for his abstract monumental bronze sculptures, usually depicting mother-and-child or reclining figures, that are pierced or contain hollow spaces? A: Henry Moore
Q: With what activity is the name Boris Spassky associated? A: Chess
Q: What make of car was founded in 1963 in a tractor factory in Sant'Agata Bolognese, Italy, and is now a subsidiary of Volkswagen? A: Lamborghini
Q: Which country was proclaimed a republic in 1867, following the withdrawal of the French administration and the execution of Emperor Ferdinand Maximilian? A: Mexico
Q: In Greek legend, Aphrodite turned Adonis into what? A: Anemone
Q: A standard archery target is marked with how many evenly spaced concentric rings? A: 10
Q: Who is the King of Thailand? A: Bhumibol Adulyadej
Q: Who was the Italian player head-butted by French captain Zinedine Zidane in the final of the football World Cup 2006? A: Marco Materazzi
Q: Which New Zealand-born and New York-based artist, known for his kinetic sculpture produced between 1950 and 1980, also made films, applying dyes, stencils, air-brushes and other objects directly to celluloid? A: Len Lye
Q: Which war ended as a result of peace negotiations at Panmunjon, completed on 27 July 1953? A: Korean War
Q: There is an Irish County called ? A: Down
Q: What was the name of the group that invaded the Olympic village at Munich in 1972, killing 2 Israelis and holding 9 others hostage, resulting in a firefight killing 15 people, including all the athletes and 5 terrorists? A: Black September
Q: Which animal has very low metabolic rates and a quarter of the muscle tissue of animals of similar size, and whose hair grows in a direction opposite to that of its extremities? A: Sloth
Q: Which king of England was nicknamed Rufus? A: William II
Q: Whose discovery, that there were other galaxies in existence besides the Milky Way, was announced in 1925? A: Edwin Hubble
Q: In the nursery rhyme, a carving knife was used for amputation on who? A: Three Blind Mice
Q: In 1956, British and French forces invaded a country in North Africa due to a dispute over which engineering work? A: Suez Canal
Q: In which 1988 Academy Award-winning film did Dustin Hoffman play a character with special mental powers called Raymond Babbitt? A: Rain Man
Q: Who won the Formula One Championship in 2008? A: Lewis Hamilton
Q: The film actor Julia Elizabeth Wells is better known by what name? A: Julie Andrews
Q: What is the world's only alpine parrot? A: Kea
Q: Who organised a congress in Paris, on June 23, 1894 to establish the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and choose the host city for the 1896 Olympic Games? A: Baron de Coubertin
Q: What is the maximum number of players that can be on a polo field at any one time during a game? A: 8
Q: After the Rolling Stones released their first LP, who was the first person to leave the band? A: Brian Jones
Q: Which king of Egypt abdicated in favour of his infant son in July 1952? A: Farouk
Q: In 1838, which steamship made the first crossing of the Atlantic Ocean, from Bristol to New York? A: The Great Western
Q: Chicago, Illinois, U S A, is on the shores of what body of water? A: Lake Michigan
Q: "The first verse of which song begins ""So you think youve lost your love? Well I saw her yesterday""?" A: She Loves You
Q: What is the name for two collections of lymphoid tissues, one on either side of the throat, level with the base of the tongue? A: Tonsils
Q: What is the name of the stadium in The Bronx in New York City which was the home baseball park of the New York Yankees from 1923 to 2008? A: Yankee Stadium
Q: What was the title of the film directed by and starring Clint Eastwood that was about a thinly disguised episode in John Houston's life? A: White Hunter, Black Heart
Q: What man-made waterway was constructed between 1859 and 1869? A: Suez Canal
Q: What is the second northernmost state of the USA on the Pacific coast? A: Washington
Q: "What French phrase means ""sea-sickness""?" A: Mal de mer
Q: What is another name for China clay? A: Kaolin
Q: "What actor is common to the films ""Ned Kelly"" (1970), ""Performance"" (1970), ""Freejack"" (1992), ""Bent"" (1997) and ""The Man From Elysian Fields"" (2001)?" A: Mick Jagger
Q: Until Lewis Hamilton's win at Spain in 2007, who held the record for being the youngest driver to lead the Formula One Championship? A: Bruce McLaren
Q: Which one of these planets was not represented in the musical work by Gustav Holst called The Planets? A: Earth
Q: What word refers to a measure used in Scotland for liquids, chiefly beer, equalling 9 gallons? A: Firkin
Q: What was the name for a foul smell believed to carry diseases, since discredited by the discovery of infectious agents? A: Miasma
Q: In 1990, mountain climbers Rob Hall and Gary Ball were the first to do what in 7 months? A: "Climb the ""Seven Summits"""
Q: The skull can be divided into two parts: the cranium and what other part? A: The mandible
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister of the Repubic of India when it was created in 1947? A: Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru
Q: "In the final episode of the TV series ""M*A*S*H"", which of the main characters did not return to the U S A?" A: Corporal Klinger
Q: On 1 July 2001, who was the IBF Heavyweight Champion, WBC Heavyweight Champion, IBO Heavyweight Champion, USBA Heavyweight Champion, & IBF Intercontinental Heavyweight Champion? A: Hasim Rahman
Q: "The names of how many US states begin with ""New""?" A: 4
Q: Who wrote the text on which the musical Cats was based? A: T S Eliot
Q: What perennial herb with sweet pine and citrus flavours was known to the Greeks and Romans as a sign of happiness? A: Marjoram
Q: What was the name of the regular feature of the European motorsport calendar from 1927 to1957 that was held 24 times in Italy? A: The Mille Miglia
Q: What is the name of the arts programme made for British television from 1978 that is identified with Melvyn Bragg? A: The South Bank Show
Q: The Fandango originated in which country? A: Spain
Q: What was the name of the scheme approved by U S Congress in 1948 for the long term financing of the reconstruction of Europe following World War II? A: Marshall Plan
Q: What Pope took office on 21 June 1963? A: Paul VI
Q: Titan is a moon of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: What 2003 mystery-detective novel by Dan Brown has been denounced as an attack on the Catholic Church and criticised for historical and scientific inaccuracy? A: The Da Vinci Code
Q: The Roman Coliseum was built under the direction of which Emperor? A: Vespasian
Q: In which year did George Bush succeed Ronald Reagan as US President, the US ratified the Berne convention on copyright, Time Inc and Warner Communications merged to form Time-Warner, and the Exxon Valdez spilled oil in Alaska? A: 1989
Q: "According to Lewis Carroll's ""Jabberwocky"", what were ""all mimsy""?" A: Borogoves
Q: Which US state borders another country, and no other US state? A: Alaska
Q: Who was largely responsible for the development of the jet engine, seeing the first application of his engine installed in a Gloster aircraft in 1941? A: Frank Whittle
Q: Who commanded No. 11 Group RAF, responsible for the fighter defence of London and southeast England, which took the brunt of the German air attacks in the Battle of Britain? A: Keith Park
Q: What were first introduced in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in May 1, 1840, promoted by Rowland Hill? A: Postage stamps
Q: What was the title of Walt Disney's first full length animated feature, released in 1937? A: Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
Q: Which Apollo mission brought the first rocks and other material from the Moon? A: Apollo 11
Q: Which law enforcement agency was established in 1908 as a branch of the U S Department of Justice? A: F B I
Q: "What game is set in a mansion where players attempt to solve a murder, the solution requiring the components of ""Suspect"", ""Weapon"", and ""Room""?" A: Cluedo
Q: What orchestral string instrument has a deeper tone than a violin, and higher than a cello? A: Viola
Q: "What U K TV series about a father and son, rag and bone men, was the basis for the U S TV series ""Sandford and Son""?" A: Steptoe and Son
Q: Who was the first black woman, second African American, and the second woman to serve as U S Secretary of State? A: Condoleeza Rice
Q: Which group of people took control of Carthage in 439 AD? A: Vandals
Q: What wine originated in the Spanish town of Jerez de la Fontera? A: Sherry
Q: Which city was the site of the dervish rebellion and the death of the British General Gordon in 1885? A: Khartoum
Q: "In Billy Wilder's film ""Sunset Boulevard"", in which Gloria Swanson often said the line, ""All right, Mr DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up"", who played Cecil B DeMille?" A: Cecil B DeMille
Q: "What theory, developed by Franz Joseph Gall, in which personality traits were determined by ""reading"" bumps and fissures in the skull, was once considered a science?" A: Phrenology
Q: The singer and English TV personality Priscilla White is better known by what name? A: Cilla Black
Q: "Who described ""unified field theory"", an attempt to unify and simplify the fundamental laws of physics, in a paper titled ""On The Generalised Theory of Gravitation"" in 1950?" A: Albert Einstein
Q: How many of the Great Lakes form part of the border between the U S A and Canada? A: 4
Q: In 1952, Jonas Salk invented a vaccine to prevent the spread of which disease? A: Polio
Q: What playwright wrote many of his plays for the Stephen Joseph Company in Scarborough, UK? A: Alan Ayckbourn
Q: Who had a positive drug test for excessive levels of testosterone after initially being declared the winner of the 2006 Tour de France? A: Floyd Landis
Q: Both opposing generals, the British general Wolfe, and the French general Montcalm, were killed in a battle for which city in 1759? A: Quebec
Q: In the 1960's, record players were manufactured to revolve at 78, 45 and 33 revolutions per minute, and what other speed? A: 16 rpm
Q: What miners' oil lamp, invented in 1815, had a wire cylinder to enclose the flame, preventing the explosion of coal-gas? A: Davy Lamp
Q: The Taj Mahal is nearest to which city? A: Agra
Q: """Trigger"" was the name of the horse belonging to which film cowboy?" A: Roy Rogers
Q: What was the cause of the disqualification of Swedish pentathlete Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall at Mexico City in 1968, the first as a result of failing a doping test at an Olympic Games? A: Beer
Q: In which film starring Bill Murray was each day the same as the one before? A: Groundhog Day
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Bent""?" A: Martin Sherman
Q: Spain's war in 1898 with which power resulted in its loss of sovereignty over Cuba and the Philippine Islands? A: U S A
Q: In ballet, what is the name for a dance duet in which ballet steps are performed together? A: Pas de deux
Q: What star is closest to the Earth? A: The sun
Q: Which Scotsman took out a patent in 1876 that was the nucleus of the telephone? A: Alexander Bell
Q: In which war were the sieges of Mafeking, Kimberley and Ladysmith lifted following the arrival of reinforcement British troops under the command of Lord Kitchener and Lord Roberts? A: Boer War
Q: Charlie Chaplin wore his tramp costume for the first time in 1914 in which film? A: Kid Auto Races in Venice
Q: The Gulf Stream, a warm ocean current, flows from the North American continent to where? A: British Isles
Q: In 1960 an international agreement defined the metre in terms of the wavelength of the light from which gas, when burnt? A: Krypton
Q: What is the capital of the province of Alberta, Canada? A: Edmonton
Q: Which European discovered New Zealand and Australia in 1642? A: Abel Tasman
Q: In darts, what is the name of the line behind which the throwing player must stand? A: Oche
Q: From which musical does the song Maria come? A: West Side Story
Q: Who was the 15th century woman who led a French army to relieve the siege of Orleans by the English army? A: Joan of Arc
Q: What animal does an ostler deal with? A: Horses
Q: On a standard dartboard, what is immediately to the right of the number 20? A: 1
Q: What Italian film, released in 1999, told the story of a Jewish family sent to a concentration camp in World War II? A: Life is Beautiful
Q: "Who wrote the plays ""The Cherry Orchard"", ""Three Sisters"", ""The Seagull"" and ""Uncle Vanya""?" A: Anton Chekhov
Q: Which forces were defeated by Ho Chi Minh's forces at the battle of Dien Bien Phu in Vietnam in May 1954? A: French
Q: What is the capital of the province of New Brunswick, Canada? A: Fredericton
Q: Cambodia is better known in Asia as, and its official name was changed in 1975 temporarily to, what? A: Kampuchea
Q: What is someone who makes or repairs stringed instruments called? A: Luthier
Q: Who was Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers during the occupation of Japan immediately following World War II? A: Douglas MacArthur
Q: What is the main protein of connective tissue in animals and the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% of the total protein content? A: Collagen
Q: Who, in 1948 at London, equalled the record of winning 4 gold medals at one Olympics, set at the previous Games by Jesse Owens? A: Fanny Blankers-Koen
Q: Jacqueline Lee Bouvier became better known as who? A: Jackie Kennedy
Q: What event took place at Yasgur's farm, New York, on 15 to 18 August 1969? A: Woodstock Music and Art Fair
Q: What word best describes a triangle where all sides are different lengths? A: Scalene
Q: "Before Ron Howard became a film director, and before he starred in ""Happy Days"", he appeared in a long-running US TV series set in Mayberry. What was the name of the show?" A: The Andy Griffith Show
Q: In standard tuning for a 6 string guitar, two strings are tuned to the same note, two octaves apart. What is the note? A: E
Q: In which city did General Jodl, the German Chief of Staff, sign the surrender document on 7 May 1945, ending World War II in Europe? A: Rheims
Q: What is the longest named river in North America, which runs from Montana to near St Louis, Missouri? A: Missouri
Q: "Of whom, when told he intended to return to private life and retire to his plantation, did King George III say, ""If he does that, he will be the greatest man in the world""?" A: George Washington
Q: In which city did Popes officially reside from 1309 to 1378? A: Avignon
Q: Western nations allied with the United States to intervene between warring countries and defend the border at the 38th Parallel in which country? A: Korea
Q: What was believed to be a hemisphere above the ground, carrying the fixed stars and surrounding the seven spheres of the planets, through which the Sun and Moon moved in and out through a series of openings? A: Firmament
Q: Who won the Formula One Championship for drivers in 2000? A: Michael Schumacher
Q: Who was the Venetian who made a number of journeys to China and India in the 13th century and was later taken prisoner by the Genoese? A: Marco Polo
Q: The Kalahari Desert is on which continent? A: Africa
Q: Who, in 1831, first demonstrated that the motion of a conductor in a magnetic field generates an electric current? A: Michael Faraday
Q: Who was the king of England who succeeded James I? A: Charles I
Q: What instrument was designed to measure variations in temperature by the expansion or contraction of a liquid or gas? A: Thermometer
Q: At the 1968 Olympic Games held at Mexico City, what was the now-universal style introduced to the high jump? A: Fosbury flop
Q: What Indian people drove out the Toltecs and were conquered by Spain in the 16th century? A: Aztecs
Q: What is the name for a nutritional disease caused by a lack of vitamin c? A: Scurvy
Q: In which country is the town of Passchendaele? A: Belgium
Q: What were the Penny Black and the Two Pence Blue that first went on sale in England in May 1840? A: Postage stamps
Q: Making a U-turn results in a change of direction of how many degrees? A: 180
Q: What was the title of Stephen Kings first novel, in which a telekinetic woman exacts deadly revenge on her high school classmates? A: Carrie
Q: The group of 48 of the United States that are between Canada and Mexico is referred to as the continental or what United States? A: Contiguous
Q: Who became World Snooker Champion for the third time in 2008? A: Ronnie O'Sullivan
Q: Which scientist allegedly used mirrors to focus the sun's rays to burn Roman ships during the Siege of Syracuse around 214212 BC? A: Archimedes
Q: "What British institution has the nickname ""The Old Lady Of Threadneedle Street""?" A: The Bank Of England
Q: Who married Sir Winston Churchill? A: Clementine Hozier
Q: "Which artist, born in Leeuwarden in 1898, is famous for his optical illusions such as ""Ascending And Descending"", ""Convex and Concave"", and ""Metamorphosis I""?" A: M C Escher
Q: In Britain, rationing ended, the London gold market reopened, Roger Bannister was first to run a mile in under 4 minutes, and the Queen returned from a tour of the Commonwealth in which year? A: 1954
Q: What infectious disease, occurring commonly in epidemics and caused by a virus, is characterised by blotchy rash preceded by a running nose and eyes, with a rise in temperature and lassitude? A: Measles
Q: Which piece on a chessboard can move only one space in any direction? A: King
Q: What name was applied to legislation regarding the sale of liquor in the U S A between 1919 to 1933? A: Prohibition
Q: A necromancer is a type of what? A: Sorcerer
Q: Which American blues artist died on 21 June 2001? A: John Lee Hooker
Q: What is the inherited condition that causes the body to retain copper, which can lead to brain and liver damage? A: Wilson's disease
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""The Magic Flute""?" A: Mozart
Q: At which Olympic Games were females allowed to compete at track & field athletics for the first time? A: 1928, Amsterdam
Q: What is the name of the area immediately surrounding a golf hole? A: Green
Q: Portree is the principal town on which island? A: Skye
Q: The design specification for the Ford GT40, which won the Le Mans 24 Hour race four years in a row, specified that car be a maximum of ? A: 40 inches high
Q: In the 1960s, who had a hit record with Bob Dylans Blowin in the Wind? A: Peter, Paul and Mary
Q: Which one of these scripts was not written or co-written by Harold Pinter? A: Look Back In Anger
Q: What component of tonic water is used to prevent or alleviate the effects of malaria? A: Quinine
Q: What is the scientific symbol for calcium? A: Ca
Q: The capital of the U S A, Washington, DC, is bordered by Maryland and which other state? A: Virginia
Q: What is the only country not to identify itself on its postage stamps? A: United Kingdom
Q: Which of the Marx Brothers appeared in their vaudeville act, but not in any of their films? A: Gummo
Q: African nations boycotted the Montreal Olympic Games in 1976, as a protest against a recent tour of South Africa by a rugby team from which country? A: New Zealand
Q: What are Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg collectively known as? A: Benelux
Q: Freckles, brownish yellow spots usually found mostly on the face, neck and hands are also known as . ? A: Lentigo
Q: Where was the battle fought between the Royalist forces under Prince Rupert and Oliver Cromwell's men in June 1645 that was the key to the final downfall of Royalist forces a year later? A: Naseby
Q: Who received a replacement gold medal at the 1996 Olympics for the one he allegedly threw away after being refused service in a whites-only restaurant in his home town? A: Cassius Clay
Q: "Who created the sculptures Single Form, in memory of Dag Hammarskjld, at the United Nations building in New York City, and ""Construction (Crucifixion): Homage to Mondrian"" in the grounds of Winchester Cathedral?" A: Dame Barbara Hepworth
Q: What is the name given to the hypotheses, now superseded, that the movement of continents and the appearance of new crustal material at mid-ocean ridges is because the Earth's volume is increasing? A: Expanding Earth
Q: What is the longest and widest single nerve in the human body? A: Sciatic nerve
Q: Alex Turner, Jamie Cook, Matt Helders and Nick OMalley are collectively known as what? A: Arctic Monkeys
Q: Which tennis tournament runs for 14 days from late June to early July, ending with the men's singles final on a Sunday? A: Wimbledon
Q: What ship, less than a month after her maiden voyage in 1907, had the record for crossing the Atlantic eastbound, and in 1909 had a record time for the westbound crossing that stood for 20 years? A: Mauretania
Q: Babe Ruth played for which Major League Baseball team between 1919 and 1935? A: New York Yankees
Q: Who was the president of the Confederate States of America following its formation in 1861? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: What is the study of plant diseases? A: Phytopathology
Q: In England, Dick Turpin (1706-39), Claude Duval (1643-70) and John Nevison (1639-84) were well known as what? A: Highwaymen
Q: In what word game do two to four players score points by forming words from individual lettered tiles on a game board marked with a grid, the words formed across and down in crossword fashion? A: Scrabble
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister of Ceylon when it became independent on 14 October 1947? A: Don Stephen Senanayake
Q: Which ex-European colony in China is at the mouth of the Canton River? A: Macau
Q: "Who were the USA fighting a war against in 1812 when the successful American defence of Fort McHenry in September 1814 inspired the lyrics of the U.S. national anthem, ""The Star-Spangled Banner""?" A: Great Britain
Q: What are the Christian names of J K Rowling, the creator of Harry Potter? A: Joanne Kathleen
Q: Who, in 1919, achieved the first nuclear disintegrations by bombarding nitrogen with alpha particles? A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: What fate made Spencer Perceval unique among British Prime Ministers? A: He was assassinated
Q: Where were the FIBA (Basketball) World Championships held in 2006? A: Japan
Q: In Greek legend, a woodland deity, half man, half goat, is called a ? A: Satyr
Q: "What was the subtitle of ""Star Wars - Episode 1"", released in 1999?" A: The Phantom Menace
Q: Mahatma Gandhi led Indians in protesting the British-imposed salt tax with what 400 km (249 mile) journey in 1930? A: Dandi Salt March
Q: The Three Gorges Dam is in which country? A: China
Q: What is the next in the series: Calgary, Canada; Albertville, France; Lillehammer, Norway; Nagano, Japan? A: Salt Lake City, United States
Q: What is the next number in the series 1, 8, 27, 64, 125? A: 216
Q: Which building was attacked at the start of the French Revolution on 14 July 1789 because it was symbolic of injustice? A: The Bastille
Q: "Who was the Anglo-Irish scientist who, in the 17th century, discovered that ""the volume of a given mass of gas at a given temperature is inversely proportional to its pressure""?" A: Robert Boyle
Q: "Who collaborated with Andrew Lloyd Webber to create the musical ""The Beautiful Game""?" A: Ben Elton
Q: What is the name of the process by which plants obtain carbohydrates from carbon dioxide and water? A: Photosynthesis
Q: What is a 'single make' open-wheel auto racing series wherein competitors represent their nation as opposed to themselves or a team? A: A1 Grand Prix
Q: "During World War II, where was the HQ of the English code cracking unit that was set up to decipher the output from the ""Enigma"" machine?" A: Bletchley Park
Q: What is the dam in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River on the border between the US states of Arizona and Nevada that was completed in 1935? A: Hoover Dam
Q: Which jazz musician has a memorial, created by sculptor Robert Graham and unveiled in 1997, in Central Park New York, near the intersection of 5th Avenue and 100th Street? A: Duke Ellington
Q: In which country would you find the Moorish castle called the Alhambra? A: Spain
Q: What is the highest mountain on Antarctica? A: Vinson Massif
Q: "Who, in the 16th century, published ""Orbium Coelestium"", the theory that underlies our current understanding of the relationship of the earth to the sun and the planets?" A: Nicolaus Copernicus
Q: Which chief laid siege to Fort Detroit in 1763, an action that led to widespread rebellion against colonists in the area around Ohio and Illinois? A: Pontiac
Q: How many semitones are there in an octave? A: 12
Q: When was the Euro first used as a unit of currency? A: 1999
Q: What is the French name for Lake Geneva? A: Lac Leman
Q: Where in Europe would you go to attend the World Backgammon Championship? A: Monaco
Q: "Who was President of Uganda from 1971 to 1979 and was depicted in the film ""The Last King Of Scotland""?" A: Idi Amin
Q: What city was once known as Lutce? A: Paris
Q: What virtual cricketing prize began in 1882 when Australia beat England by 7 runs? A: The Ashes
Q: Which British playwright won the 2005 Nobel Prize for literature? A: Harold Pinter
Q: According to Roman legend, which son of Ceres was turned into a river in Tartarus which supplied the Titans with water in their battle with the gods? A: Acheron
Q: What is a legal defence for being somewhere other than at the scene of a crime? A: Alibi
Q: What word refers to a note whose pitch is not a member of the scale indicated by the key signature? A: Accidental
Q: What is the next in the series: Melbourne; Rome; Tokyo; Mexico City? A: Munich
Q: What is petrology the study of? A: Rocks
Q: What series of 29 British films made between 1958 and 1978 were made by a collection of actors including Sid James, Kenneth Williams, Charles Hawtrey, and Kenneth Connor? A: Carry On
Q: According to Greek legend, whose fate was to stand near the garden of the Hesperides and support the universe on his shoulders? A: Atlas
Q: What 1980's TV programme starred Tyne Daly and Sharon Gless? A: Cagney and Lacey
Q: What American Indian word was used to describe the first international Boy Scout rally held at Olympia, London, in 1920? A: Jamboree
Q: What organisation, formed by Reverend John Flynn and based in Cloncurry, Queensland, Australia, began in 1928?. A: Royal Flying Doctor Service
Q: In 2004 it was announced that what new fixture was planned for Wimbledons Centre Court, to be completed in 2009? A: A retractable roof
Q: Time On Our Hands, which held the record for the highest UK audience for a sitcom episode from 1996 for over ten years, is from which TV series? A: Only Fools and Horses
Q: Which light-heavyweight boxer won a gold medal when he competed at an Olympic Games for the first time in 1960 at Rome? A: Cassius Clay
Q: Normally, a string quintet contains how many violins? A: 2
Q: "Which Irish step dancer, flautist and choreographer, born 16 July 1958 in Chicago, Illinois, became internationally known through the musical ""Riverdance""?" A: Michael Flatley
Q: What phrase used by the US during the Cold War to justify American intervention around the world, suggested that if any country came under the influence of communism, the surrounding countries would follow? A: Domino Theory
Q: Which US horse race for three year-old thoroughbred horses is held on the first Saturday in May, over one and a quarter miles (2 km) at Churchill Downs? A: The Kentucky Derby
Q: What is the Russian rocket launch and development site in the Astrakhan Oblast, between Volgograd and Astrakhan, established in 1946? A: Kapustin Yar
Q: Nelson beat Napoleon's fleet, which lost 13 of 17 ships, in which battle in Aboukir Bay on 1 August 1793? A: Battle of the Nile
Q: What is the lowest number that is both the square of one integer and the cube of another? A: 64
Q: Which manufacturer of pens was established in 1884 in New York City, USA? A: Waterman
Q: Which impresario, music manager and record producer has been involved with The Rolling Stones, The Yardbirds, Graham Gouldman, Godley and Creme, (later 10cc), Soft Machine, and Julie Driscoll, Brian Auger & The Trinity? A: Giorgio Gomelsky
Q: Which mountains are between Lake Champlain and the St Lawrence, in the state of New York, USA? A: Adirondacks
Q: Americans call it a hood. What do the British call it? A: Bonnet
Q: Who made the first, in western countries, practical successful and widely usable vaccinations in 1796 against smallpox? A: Edward Jenner
Q: "What scale initially related wind conditions to their effects on the sails of a man of war, from ""sufficient for steerage"" to ""which canvas sails couldn't withstand.""" A: Beaufort scale
Q: A vestry is a feature of what sort of building? A: Church
Q: In 2008, who was the President of Palestine and Fatah leader? A: Mahmoud Abbas
Q: Which river flows from north to south through eastern New York State, USA, and forms the border between Pennsylvania and New Jersey before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean? A: Hudson
Q: Launched on 4 March 2001 as the largest ship operated by the U S Navy, this aircraft carrier is named after which past U S president? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What is a highly magnetized, rotating, neutron star emitting a beam of electromagnetic radiation that can only be observed when the beam of emission is pointing towards the Earth (known as the lighthouse effect)? A: Pulsar
Q: What 3-D puzzle was invented in 1974 by a Hungarian sculptor and professor of architecture? A: Rubik's Cube
Q: Which country became a self-governing state within the British Empire in 1959, declared independence from Britain, joining the Federation of Malaysia in 1963, and left the federation on 9 August 1965? A: Singapore
Q: What is the next number in the series 1, 16, 81, 256, 625? A: 1296
Q: By what name is Reg Dwight better known? A: Elton John
Q: In Britain, what was the name given to the M4 Medium Tank that was produced by the US from World War II until the end of the Korean War? A: Sherman
Q: "Which English actor, the majority of whose film work was between 1944 (""Waterloo Road"") and 1960 (""Tunes of Glory""), won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role in ""Ryan's Daughter"" (1970)?" A: John Mills
Q: "What is the word commonly thought to mean ""a morbid fear of open spaces""?" A: Agoraphobia
Q: Who set the record for winning the World Snooker Championship the most times (7) in 1999? A: Stephen Hendry
Q: In Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and New Orleans, Louisiana, what is the name for the day called Shrove Tuesday in Ireland and the UK where it is celebrated with pancakes? A: Mardi Gras
Q: Which Greek mathematician, from the 1st century BC, is best known for the theorem which bears his name and for leading a group who discovered square numbers and proposed that the earth was round, planets have an axis, and they travel around the sun? A: Pythagoras
Q: In sheep's stomach put finely minced heart, lungs & liver of sheep, 2 chopped onions, 1lb suet, juice of 1 lemon, 1/2pt oatmeal, 2tsp salt, 1tsp pepper, 1/2 grated nutmeg, 1/2pt gravy; boil 3 hrs is a recipe for what? A: Haggis
Q: Which US state capital is on the banks of the Cumberland River? A: Nashville, Tennessee
Q: Who was the first woman to make a solo flight from England to Australia in 1930? A: Amy Johnson
Q: CRP (or CREEP) was The Committee to Re-elect which US president? A: Richard Nixon
Q: "Which US TV show's theme song, by Judy Hart Angelo & Gary Portnoy, performed by Portnoy, contained the line ""Where Everybody Knows Your Name""?" A: Cheers
Q: What is the familiar name for the British flag? A: Union Jack
Q: What is the number of the beast, according to the Book of Revelation? A: 666
Q: What is the name given to a class of coal that contains a high percentage of fired carbon and burns smokelessly with intense heat? A: Anthracite
Q: What is the largest island of Denmark, that includes the cities of Copenhagen and Helsingr? A: Zealand
Q: What was the name of the temporary harbours that were towed to the French coast to facilitate D Day landings on 5 and 6 June 1944? A: Mulberry
Q: "From which sport do we get the expression ""Bowled a googly""?" A: Cricket
Q: "Which one of four ""big cats"" in the Panthera genus is the only one found in the New World (i.e. Mexico, across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina)?" A: Jaguar
Q: What was Glenn Miller's signature tune? A: Moonlight Serenade
Q: Which city held the 2012 Summer Olympics, making it the first city to host the Games three times? A: London
Q: "From which game do we get the expression ""On a roll""?" A: Craps
Q: "Who wrote the plays ""Waiting For Godot"", ""Endgame"", ""Play"", ""Happy Days"" and ""Krapp's Last Tape""?" A: Samuel Beckett
Q: Which theatre in Dublin, built in 1904 where George Bernard Shaw, W B Yeats, Padraic Colum, and Sean O'Casey premiered many of their plays, was severely damaged by fire in 1951? A: Abbey Theatre
Q: Which wars, from 1839 to 1842 and 1856 to 1860, were due to Britain smuggling goods from India into China in defiance of China's laws? A: The Opium Wars
Q: How many signs of the Zodiac are neither inanimate nor human? A: 7
Q: "Which Beatle played ""Youngman Grand"" in ""The Magic Christian"" 1969, with Peter Sellers?" A: Ringo Starr
Q: "Woody Guthrie, tired of radio overplaying Irving Berlin's ""God Bless America"", wrote a song in 1940 now known as what?" A: This Land Is Your Land
Q: What is produced by the cortex of supra-renal glands that stimulates the autonomic nervous system? A: Adrenalin
Q: Which mountain range crosses North Africa for over 1500 miles from Cape Nun on the Atlantic Coast to Cape Bon on the Mediterranean? A: Atlas
Q: Which city was settled by the French in 1718, ceded to Spain in 1763, fell to France in 1800, and was bought by the USA in 1803? A: New Orleans
Q: "When bidding in Auction Bridge, what suit has the highest value below ""No trumps""?" A: Spades
Q: Which dancer had success on stage with his sister Adele before achieving fame in films with Ginger Rogers? A: Fred Astaire
Q: What is next in the series: Katherine, Anne, Jane, Anne, Catherine? A: Catherine
Q: The publication of which book by Salman Rushdie led to threats on his life by Ayatollah Khomeini? A: The Satanic Verses
Q: Over 99.9% of an atom's mass is concentrated in what part of the atom? A: Nucleus
Q: Which is the largest of the Channel Islands, where the official language is French? A: Jersey
Q: What appeared in the Netherlands in 1608, developed by Hans Lippershey, Zacharias Janssen and Jacob Metius, and improved by Galileo in 1609? A: Refracting telescope
Q: Who was the Greek god of medicine who brought dead people back to life, angering Zeus who killed him with a thunderbolt? A: Aesculapius
Q: What is the alternative name for Pluto, the Greek God of the underworld, that has come to mean Hell? A: Hades
Q: What is a green liqueur made from anise, hyssop, angelica and mint? A: Absinthe
Q: Antoni Gaudi is responsible for the architecture of which building which is still being constructed to his original plans and drawings, 90 years after his death? A: Sagrada Familia
Q: Which Olympic Games were the first where all continents were represented, with all athletes competing in one stadium? A: 1912, Stockholm
Q: Which large, non-venomous snake found in South America and on Trinidad grows to around 23 feet (7.0 m) long, and is olive green with black blotches with orange-yellow striping on either side of the head? A: Anaconda
Q: What is the word for the minimum number of people necessary to formally constitute a meeting? A: Quorum
Q: Which 1967 film ended with the deaths of the characters played by Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty? A: Bonnie and Clyde
Q: "The term ""New England"" covers the US states of Maine, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, Rhode Island and which other state?" A: New Hampshire
Q: What international movement has a pink triangle as its symbol? A: Gay rights
Q: Who married the woman who was to become Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, on 10 March 1966? A: Prince Claus
Q: "Which Hungarian-born actor acted in films from 1917 to his death in 1956, and is best known for playing the title role in the 1931 film ""Dracula""?" A: Bela Lugosi
Q: Who was born in Cowley, Oxfordshire, and in Oxford built and sold bicycles, motorcycles and, in 1912, his first car, the Morris Oxford? A: Lord Nuffield
Q: New York city consists of the boroughs of The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island, and which other? A: Queens
Q: Which building on the le de la Cit in Paris took 300 years to build from 1163, and was one of the first to have flying buttresses? A: Notre Dame
Q: The official basketball size for mens basketball is 29.5 inches in circumference (size 7) and what weight in ounces? A: 22
Q: What term is familiarly applied to the university where one received one's education? A: Alma Mater
Q: "What film, in production between 2007 and 2009, is directed by James Cameron (""Titanic"")?" A: Avatar
Q: At which event is milk, not champagne, the celebration drink? A: Indianapolis 500
Q: What is the longest continuously-serving state capital in the USA? A: Boston, Massachusetts
Q: Where was the most damage done by the Loma Prieta earthquake, that struck on 17 October 1989? A: San Francisco Bay Area, California
Q: What word best describes a political situation common to England in 1647, France in 1789, Spain in 1936 and Jamaica in 1720? A: Anarchy
Q: Who was the first Chancellor of West Germany from 19491963, who retired at age 87? A: Konrad Adenauer
Q: Which French city near the Mediterranean Sea, was an embarcation point for the 7th and 8th Crusades, and is now a tourist destination because of its well-preserved city walls? A: Aigues-Mortes
Q: Theo van Doesberg, Piet Mondriaan, Vilmos Huizar and Bart van der Leck are identified with what art movement? A: Neoplasticism
Q: "What is an aramaic word meaning ""father"" that is used as a title of respect to bishops and patriarchs in Coptic, Syrian and Abyssinian churches?" A: Abba
Q: Who is Warren Beatty's actress sister? A: Shirley MacLaine
Q: What is a food consisting of sweetened milk thickened with rennet into a curd, sometimes flavoured with brandy? A: Junket
Q: What is the name in England for the mystery crime fiction board game devised by Anthony E. Pratt and originally published in 1949? A: Cluedo
Q: Which river forms the border between Zimbabwe and Zambia? A: Zambezi
Q: "In Morse code, what letter is represented by ""dash dash dash""?" A: O
Q: "In which UK TV series did Ronnie Barker play ""Arkwright"" and David Jason play his nephew ""Granville""?" A: Open All Hours
Q: Which country was the largest producer of kiwifruit (also known as Chinese Gooseberry or kiwi) in 2012? A: Italy
Q: Who was the first President of the French Fifth Republic? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Which Scottish architect, buried in Westminster Abbey, is famous for staircases, fireplaces, chimney pieces, and furniture built in residences in the 18th century? A: Robert Adam
Q: Five spice powder is commonly used in which ethnic cuisine? A: Chinese
Q: "Who wrote ""Badjelly The Witch"", ""A Little Pot Boiler"" and ""Small Dreams Of A Scorpion""?" A: Spike Milligan
Q: Greenland and the Faroe Islands are dependencies of which European nation? A: Denmark
Q: "Which drummer for the 1960s rock band Holy Modal Rounders (featured in the movie ""Easy Rider"") received the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1979 for his play, Buried Child?" A: Sam Shepard
Q: The anniversary that commemorates Captain Arthur Phillip founding the British Colony of Australia in 1788, is celebrated on which day every year? A: 26 January
Q: Nitroglycerin is made by treating glycerin with nitric acid and what? A: Sulphuric acid
Q: "In what sport is the object to get one's balls as close to the ""jack"" as possible?" A: Bowls
Q: "Which American screenwriter, producer, director, actor, author and editor, most productive in the 1950's, made ""Plan 9 From Outer Space"", ""Glen or Glenda"" and ""Bride Of The Monster""?" A: Ed Wood
Q: What light display in Antarctica is caused by atomic bombardment from the sun on the earth's magnetic field? A: Aurora Australis
Q: What is the name for a queen reigning in her own right, with her husband as one of her subjects? A: Queen regnant
Q: What is the name for the flight of Muhammad from Mecca to Medina, from which Muslims date their era? A: Hejira
Q: "In ""The Lord Of The Rings"", what was the name of Gandalf's horse?" A: Shadowfax
Q: "Who wrote ""The Threepenny Opera"", ""The Caucasian Chalk Circle"" and ""Life of Galileo""?" A: Bertolt Brecht
Q: "What name is given to the ""house"" constructed by beavers?" A: Lodge
Q: Members of which family were, at various times, Kings or Emperors of Germany, Austria, Rome, Hungary, Spain and Bohemia between 1273 and 1918? A: Hapsburg
Q: From 2008 Ferrari provided cars (a modification of the F1 Ferrari F2004 chassis) with a V8 engine for which 'single make' motor racing series? A: A1 Grand Prix
Q: Swiss physician and psychologist Carl Jung was initially a disciple of whom, until he disagreed with his theories regarding the Libido etc? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: William Randolph Hearst, Turk Murphy, Wyatt Earp and Joe DiMaggio are buried in cemeteries at Colma, where the dead outnumber the living by thousands to one. Where is Colma? A: San Mateo County, California
Q: What team water sport involves two teams of six field players and one goalkeeper with a maximum of six substitutes? A: Water polo
Q: The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society, established in 1884, was formed by people from what religion? A: Jehovah's Witnesses
Q: Which winner of an Oscar, a Grammy, an Emmy, a Tony and a Pulitzer, wrote musicals with Hart, Hammerstein and Sondheim? A: Richard Rodgers
Q: "From which play is the quotation ""All the world's a stage and all the men and women merely players""?" A: As You Like It
Q: What is the name for what is commonly known as aspirin? A: Acetyl-salicylic acid
Q: What disaster occurred on the San Andreas Fault in 1906? A: San Francisco earthquake
Q: What was the occupation of Vaslav Nijinsky from 1908? A: Dancer and choreographer
Q: What was the first combat aircraft to provide cabin pressurisation for the crew? A: B29 Bomber
Q: Middelburg is the capital of which province in the South West of The Netherlands? A: Zeeland
Q: "Who wrote ""Auld Lang Syne"" in 1789?" A: Robert Burns
Q: Which Greek mathematician, physicist, engineer, inventor, and astronomer used the method of exhaustion to calculate the area under a parabola, and provided formulas for the volumes of surfaces of revolution and a system for expressing very large numbers? A: Archimedes
Q: What British sitcom features Edina Monsoon and Patsy Stone, immature, prosperous, preposterous, substance-abusing fashion obsessed Londoners who value fame and style over substance? A: Absolutely Fabulous
Q: The 9th Marquess of Queensberry sponsored the rules for which sport? A: Boxing
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the son of King Atreus of Mycenae and Queen Aerope, murdered by his wife Clytemnestra on his return home from the Trojan War? A: Agamemnon
Q: What is the second longest named river in the USA, which runs from Lake Hasca, Minnesota, to the Gulf of Mexico? A: Mississippi
Q: What is the name of the English law that prevents anyone building so as to completely cut out light from a window that had provided light for at least 20 years? A: Ancient Lights
Q: An aviary is a place to keep what? A: Birds
Q: In 1898, an agreement was made between Britain and China for a 99 year lease for part of which colony? A: Hong Kong
Q: Yale University is in which state of the USA? A: Connecticut
Q: What event led to a US grand jury indicting E. Howard Hunt, Jr. and G. Gordon Liddy for conspiracy, burglary and violation of federal wiretapping laws? A: Watergate
Q: "Which science fiction writer developed ""The Three Laws of Robotics""?" A: Isaac Asimov
Q: The drink of the Gods is nectar: what is the food of the Gods? A: Ambrosia
Q: Of which species of plant found on the floors of east Asian forests from eastern India, Indochina, China and Japan have 93 species been formally described, and, it is speculated, there may be 200 to 300? A: Aspidistra
Q: "Who wrote the songs ""Suzanne"", ""First We Take Manhattan"" and ""Everybody Knows""?" A: Leonard Cohen
Q: In what sport would one use a carabiner and a piton? A: Climbing
Q: What weapon, used by some African tribes, is a light throwing spear, tipped with iron? A: Assegai
Q: What is a navigation instrument used until the 18th century to measure the angles between heavenly bodies, or between them and the horizon? A: Astrolabe
Q: Who is the maker of the Xbox? A: Microsoft
Q: According to the Bible, which one of Eve's sons killed his brother? A: Cain
Q: "The aim of which board game, which is based on one created in India around 500 BC, is to move pawns from the ""nest"" to ""home""?" A: Parcheesi
Q: "What type of instrument can be played ""pizzicato""?" A: String
Q: Who became King of Belgium on 9 August 1993? A: King Albert II
Q: Which city was founded in 1624 as a commercial trading post by the Dutch, who called it New Amsterdam, and was a nation's capital from 1785 until 1790? A: New York
Q: Who live in a seraglio? A: Wives and concubines
Q: "Which British sitcom featured Captain Mainwaring's catch phrase ""You stupid boy!""" A: Dads Army
Q: "Which Irishman wrote the novels ""Portrait Of The Artist As A Young Man"", ""Ulysses"" and ""Finnegan's Wake""?" A: James Joyce
Q: What name for an army unit composed of New Zealand and Australian troops was applied to them in World War I? A: ANZACs
Q: Which of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments is played on grass courts? A: Wimbledon
Q: What is an aficionado of Gilbert and Sullivan's light operas called? A: Gilbertian
Q: What name is given to the death of tissue due to failure of the blood supply? A: Necrosis
Q: "In curling, how do team members help to direct the ""stones"" towards the target?" A: Sweeping
Q: "When ""The Titanic"" set out on her maiden voyage, she had enough lifeboats for what percentage of the passengers and crew that were on board?" A: 50
Q: "Which is the gerund in the sentence ""we listened to the whispering""?" A: whispering
Q: "Which German scientist published ""The Natural History of Creation"" in 1876 (to prove that man was descended from apes) and ""The Riddle of the Universe"" in 1899 (to prove that it was created by natural causes)?" A: Ernst Heinrich Haeckel
Q: Which board game depends on each competitor drawing destination cards, railway car cards and locomotive cards? A: Ticket To Ride
Q: Burt Munro set the current land speed record for motorcycles under 1000cc in 1967 on what make of motorcycle? A: Indian
Q: The Great Falls of the Potomac River are located upstream (to the northwest) of which US city? A: Washington
Q: What was King George VI's first name? A: Albert
Q: What is the name given to the retreat from Chiang Kai-sheks forces by the Chinese communists from Jiangxi to Shaanxi, a 9,600 km (5,965 mile), year-long journey that began in October 1934? A: The Long March
Q: What word best describes a triangle where two sides are equal? A: Isosceles
Q: At which university on 4 May 1970 were 4 students killed and 9 wounded when an Army National Guard unit fired at students during a protest against the US invasion of Cambodia during the Vietnam War? A: Kent State University
Q: In the Roman calendar, what was the 7th day called for the months of March, May, July and October? A: Nones
Q: "Which author, who wrote ""Portrait Of A Lady"", ""The American"" and ""Roderick Hudson"", was born in New York in 1843 and became a naturalised Englishman in 1915?" A: Henry James
Q: Christopher Reeve had the title role in the first of which series of films? A: Superman
Q: What does the number of protons in the nucleus of an atom relate directly to? A: Its atomic number
Q: Babe Ruth played for which Major League Baseball team between 1914 and 1919? A: Boston Red Sox
Q: What is the next in the series: Waterloo, Blackfriars, Blackfriars Railway, Millennium ? A: Southwark
Q: What multi-venue rock music concert, held on 13 July 1985, was organized by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure to raise funds for famine relief in Ethiopia? A: Live Aid
Q: "What is the literal translation of ""Ave Maria""?" A: Hail Mary
Q: Who played Jemima in the then new musical Cats in 1981, and later starred in more of Lloyd Webber's work, with two roles written for her: in the mass Requiem, and Christine Daa in The Phantom of the Opera? A: Sarah Brightman
Q: "Which song begins with this lyric ""There she was just a-walkin' down the street""?" A: Doo Wah Diddy Diddy
Q: What is the name given to a cataclysmic nuclear explosion caused by the accretion of hydrogen onto the surface of a white dwarf star? A: Nova
Q: Which English dramatist, poet and translator of the Elizabethan era had a mysterious and untimely death? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: Where in New York city are the New York Zoo and the New York Botanical Gardens? A: Bronx Park
Q: The first railway line across the U S A, from the East Coast to San Franisco via Chicago, Omaha and Salt Lake City, was completed in what year? A: 1869
Q: Which film ended with the two main characters driving a car off a cliff? A: Thelma and Louise
Q: "Alan Longmuir, Derek Longmuir, Eric Faulkner, Stuart ""Woody"" Wood and Les McKeown were collectively known as what band from 1974 to 1976?" A: The Bay City Rollers
Q: As at 2006 elections which Sunni Islamist paramilitary organisation and political party holds a majority of seats in the legislative council of the State of Palestine, the name since 2012 of the Palestinian National Authority? A: Hamas
Q: What is the branch of the Mediterranean Sea between Greece and Asia Minor which contains many Greek islands? A: Aegean Sea
Q: What is a collector of coins and medals called? A: Numismatist
Q: What type of design was used for London's Millennium Footbridge across the Thames, that opened on 10 June 2000? A: Steel suspension bridge
Q: Which female jazz singer died in December 2008? A: Eartha Kitt
Q: What sea creature living in the Arctic has a tapering tusk, spirally grooved, 2 to 3 metres (7 to 10 feet) long? A: Narwhal
Q: In books by A A Milne, which of the main characters was usually depressed? A: Eeyore
Q: What is an apparatus consisting of a frame containing a number of parallel wires on which there are rows of beads which can be moved left and right? A: Abacus
Q: What name is given to the activities of the specially constituted group of British, American, Russian and French judges that tried NAZI Party leaders and German military commanders after World War II? A: Nuremberg Trials
Q: What is the name of the seaway through the Arctic from Europe, north of Asia to the Pacific Ocean? A: North East Passage
Q: How many Olympic Games have been cancelled due to World Wars? A: 3
Q: "Who wrote the music for what he described as ""an American folk opera"", which was set on Catfish Row?" A: George Gershwin
Q: Which calendar was different from its predecessor because leap years did not fall on years divisible by 100 unless they were also divisible by 400? A: Gregorian calendar
Q: Where were the first modern Olympic Games held, from 6 to 15 April 1896? A: Athens, Greece
Q: Which territory has abandoned its capital city of Plymouth and has Brades as a de facto capital? A: Montserrat
Q: "Which band, formed in Newcastle upon Tyne, had the original members of Eric Burdon, Alan Price, Hilton Valentine, John Steel, and ""Chas"" Chandler?" A: The Animals
Q: Which medium-sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal, native to Africa, is the sole representative of the mammalian order Tubulidentata? A: Aardvark
Q: Who is the subject of The Future Is Unwritten, a film by Julien Temple? A: Joe Strummer
Q: The Rhine flows into the North Sea near which city? A: Rotterdam
Q: Which animal character, who first appeared on film in 1933, was conceived by Merian C Cooper and created by Willis O'Brien? A: King Kong
Q: Which birds from around Papua New Guinea and brought to Europe were believed never to land and to be kept aloft by their plumes, because native traders had removed the wings and feet from the specimens? A: Bird of Paradise
Q: What was the name of the meeting that drafted the United States Constitution in 1787? A: The Philadelphia Convention
Q: Who was awarded a Nobel Prize in 1908 for his work on the chemistry of radioactive substances? A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: What is the Chilean desert between the coast and the Andes? A: Atacama
Q: From what does vinegar derive its sour taste ? A: Acetic acid
Q: How long was the Hundred Years War, fought between England and France in the 14th and 15th centuries? A: 116 years
Q: What is the highest mountain on the continent of Australia? A: Kosciuszko
Q: What is the name for an Australian Aboriginal spear-throwing device used to increase the power of a throw? A: Woomera
Q: What was the name of the band that Louis Armstrong put together with his wife Lil, Kid Ory, Johnny Dodds and Johnny St. Cyr around 1925 in Chicago? A: Hot Five
Q: The film actor Norma Jean Mortenson is better known by what name? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: In 2014, how many colours are there on the New Zealand flag? A: 3
Q: What film starring Denis Quaid and Tyrese Gibson released in 2004 is a remake of one released in 1965 starring James Stewart and Richard Attenborough? A: Flight of the Phoenix
Q: How many US presidents were named Franklin? A: 2
Q: In 2003, which team broke Australia's winning streak of the World Netball Tournaments since 1971? A: New Zealand
Q: What measure of land area was defined in medieval England as the size of a field that could be ploughed by a yoke of oxen in one day? A: Acre
Q: Which number is exactly opposite 12 through the centre of a dart board? A: 2
Q: If Christmas Day falls on a Tuesday, on what day will New Year's Day fall? A: Tuesday
Q: Following the Battle of Borodino, fire raged for four days, destroying an estimated three-quarters of which city? A: Moscow
Q: An axolotl is the larva or early form of what? A: Salamander
Q: For which painting was Edouard Manet condemned as incompetent and subversive by critics, which damaged his reputation for years? A: Olympia
Q: "Which soprano, who had a highly successful opera career between 1968 and 2004, sang Handel's ""Let the Bright Seraphim"" at the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Spencer?" A: Kiri Te Kanawa
Q: Who is the youngest actor to receive an Oscar for the Best Actor in a Leading Role? A: Adrien Brody
Q: Amortisation is similar to ? A: Depreciation
Q: The Battle of Bull Run was fought in which war? A: American Civil War
Q: Which architect died after being hit by a tram in the streets of Barcelona? A: Antoni Gaudi
Q: What is the common name for decompression sickness? A: Bends
Q: What flower is the English rugby team emblem? A: Rose
Q: In England, what form of punishment was abolished by the Criminal Justice Act of 1948? A: Hard labour
Q: What is the next in the series: Williamsburg Bridge, Rutgers Street Tunnel, Manhattan Bridge, Brooklyn Bridge? A: Cranberry Street Tunnel
Q: What name was given to people who believed that James II and his descendants were the rightful rulers of Britain? A: Jacobites
Q: What was the original name of the board game invented by Elliot Rudell, similar to Scrabble, whereby letters can be stacked on top of others to create new words? A: Upwords
Q: What is the name for the masses of lymphoid tissue between the nose and throat that are sometimes removed by an operation in cases where enlargement is having a detrimental effect on health? A: Adenoids
Q: "Who, after making a living painting porcelain and sun blinds, became well known due to such paintings as ""Portrait of William Sisley"" and ""Skaters in the Bois de Boulogne""?" A: Renoir
Q: What is the name for an expert on reptiles? A: Herpetologist
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of victory daughter of Pallas represented as a winged figure wreathed or palm bearing sometimes guiding victors' horses? A: Nike
Q: What is the name of the geochemical component that has no known terrestrial counterpart which was discovered in The Genesis Rock retrieved during the Apollo 15 mission? A: KREEP
Q: Which Delta blues musician, according to legend, met the Devil at a crossroad and received mastery of the guitar in return for his soul? A: Robert Johnson
Q: Michelangelo's famous frescoes are on the ceiling of what area of the Vatican? A: Sistine Chapel
Q: "The names of how many US states begin with ""M""?" A: 8
Q: What is the name of the mythical beast that roams the Himalayan Alps? A: Yeti
Q: The United States deployed combat units in 1965 into which war to prevent a communist takeover of Southeast Asia, part of a wider strategy called containment? A: The Vietnam War
Q: Which chemist and physicist established the basis for the magnetic field concept, discovered electromagnetic induction, diamagnetism, laws of electrolysis, and benzene, invented devices that are the basis of electric motor technology, and popularised words such as anode, cathode, electrode, and ion? A: Michael Faraday
Q: Who was the driver of the car in which co-driver Michel Perin broke his arm when they crashed during the Dakar Rally in January 2009? A: Carlos Sainz
Q: Which branch of astronomy studies radiation with wavelengths greater than approximately one millimetre? A: Radio astronomy
Q: What is the capital of the province of Nova Scotia, Canada? A: Halifax
Q: Which German-American structural engineer and designer was Chief Engineer for the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco? A: Joseph Strauss
Q: What game involves throwing rings to get them on or near a pin? A: Quoits
Q: Trivial Pursuit was invented in which country? A: Canada
Q: "Which German-born composer became a naturalised Englishman, wrote 30 operas in the 18th century, and is more famous now for his oratorios such as ""The Messiah""?" A: George Handel
Q: After World War II Emperor Hirohito of Japan signed the treaty ending the state of war with Britain on 9 September of which year? A: 1951
Q: What word best describes a triangle where all angles are less than 90 degrees? A: Acute
Q: Which 1973 British horror film, directed by Robin Hardy starring Edward Woodward and set on a remote Scottish island, was remade in 2006, directed by Neil LaBute and starring Nicolas Cage, set on an island in Puget Sound, Washington? A: The Wicker Man
Q: What is the mountain range in Central Asia west of the Himalayas, the highest point of which is Tirach Mir? A: Western Ghats
Q: What is the science of weather and climate? A: Meteorology
Q: What is the name for the 7 kingdoms into which England was supposedly divided in the early Middle Ages? A: Heptarchy
Q: Which film, that opens at the annual presentation of the Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement, focusses on the personality clash of two stage actresses played by Bette Davis and Anne Baxter? A: All About Eve
Q: Which state donated the land occupied by the US capital city, Washington, District of Columbia? A: Maryland
Q: Who created the characters of Willy Loman, Joe Keller and Eddie Carbone? A: Arthur Miller
Q: Which film, released at the end of 2008, starred Kate Winslett and Leonardo DiCaprio? A: Revolutionary Road
Q: What is the second largest organ in the human body, located under the diaphragm on the right hand side? A: Liver
Q: Which category of instrument includes the flute, oboe, clarinet and bassoon? A: Woodwind
Q: What was the name given to the Minardi Formula One team after it was bought by Red Bull in 2005? A: Scuderia Toro Rosso
Q: Which mythological Greek hero, the son of Telamon and Periboea and king of Salamis, plays an important role in Homer's Iliad? A: Ajax
Q: What is the chief river of Uganda? A: White Nile
Q: By what name is Domenico Theotocopuli better known? A: El Greco
Q: What is the oldest continuous Olympic team sport? A: Water polo
Q: John McCain's running mate for the 2009 USA presidential election was the governor of which state? A: Alaska
Q: What range of mountains separates Europe from Asia and runs from the Arctic to the Caspian Seas? A: Ural Mountains
Q: From 1797 to 1805 and from 1814 to 1866, the city of Venice was part of what country? A: Austria
Q: The 2009 Super Bowl, played at the Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida, was between the Arizona Cardinals and what other team? A: Pittsburg Steelers
Q: The Houston Ship Channel connects the city of Houston, Texas, to what body of water? A: Gulf Of Mexico
Q: In chess, how many squares does the King move when castling? A: 2
Q: Fondue originated in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: "Which English composer wrote ""The Planets"", ""Somerset Rhapsody"" and the ballet ""The Perfect Fool""?" A: Gustav Holst
Q: Around 1910, the White Star Line was building three sister ships: The Titanic, The Gigantic (later named the Britannic) and which other? A: The Olympic
Q: "Which one of these characters is from the TV series ""ER""?" A: Dr Elizabeth Corday
Q: Whispering Ted Lowe is best known as a commentator for which sport? A: Snooker
Q: "The story of which 1944 film starring Elizabeth Taylor involved a horse called ""The Pie""?" A: National Velvet
Q: Which German Nazi leader flew solo from Ausberg in 1941 and landed by parachute near Glasgow on a private peace mission? A: Hess
Q: In which state of the USA would you find the Great Salt Lake? A: Utah
Q: Which country won the most races in the A1GP championship in its first 3 years (2005-06, 2006-07 & 2007-08)? A: France
Q: Who was the daughter of Mahomet and his first wife Kadijah? A: Fatima
Q: "What was Greta Garbo's first sound film (advertised as ""Garbo speaks!""), in a filmed version of a play by Eugene O'Neill?" A: Anna Christie
Q: In which nursery rhyme were horses, not unexpectedly, unable to mend an egg? A: Humpty Dumpty ..
Q: Which country, whose chief port is La Guaira, became a republic after seceding from the Republic of Colombia in 1830? A: Venezuela
Q: What is the capital of Mongolia, on the Tuul River? A: Ulan Bator
Q: What is the next number in the series 1, 4, 9, 16, 25? A: 2 hours
Q: Who abdicated on 30 April 1980, the day of her 71st birthday, and was succeeded by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands? A: Queen Juliana
Q: What is the name for an instrument for sending messages using reflected light from a moveable mirror? A: Heliograph
Q: Which Tennessee city has the same name as the ancient Egyptian city named after King Menes? A: Memphis
Q: Which English computer scientist and MIT professor implemented the first successful communication between an HTTP client and server via the Internet on 25 December 1990 and is credited with inventing the World Wide Web? A: Sir Timothy John Berners-Lee
Q: "The ""Entente Cordiale"", signed on 8 April 1904, was a pact to resolve all outstanding issues that were outstanding between France and which other country?" A: Great Britain
Q: What is the more common name of the disease called consumption? A: Tuberculosis
Q: "Which song begins with the lyric ""People try to put us down, Just because we get around""?" A: My Generation
Q: What type of aircraft powerplant uses a gas turbine to drive a propeller? A: Turbo prop
Q: What is the name for radiations of a wavelength longer than and immediately next to the visible spectrum? A: Infra red
Q: Where did Colonel James Bowie and Davy Crockett die fighting Mexican forces? A: Alamo
Q: Besides crosswords, where is the only place that you could see an emu in its native environment? A: Australia
Q: Who received the first Nobel prize for literature to be awarded to a British writer? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: For womens basketball, the official basketball size is 28.5 inches in circumference (size 6) and what weight in ounces? A: 20
Q: "A film released in 1971, starring David Hemmings and Michael Kitchen, based on a 1958 radio play by Giles Cooper, was called ""Unman, Wittering and "" who?" A: Zigo
Q: "Which American author wrote ""The Call Of The Wild"", ""White Fang"", ""The Sea Wolf"" and ""The Game""?" A: Jack London
Q: The heel of the forward foot must contact the ground before the toe of the rear foot leaves it is a rule of which sport? A: Walking
Q: Humidity measures the quantity of water vapour in the air as a percentage by what? A: Volume
Q: How many states are there in Australia? A: 6
Q: Quickly is what part of speech? A: Adverb
Q: "Who ""packed her trunk and said goodbye to the circus""?" A: Nellie the Elephant
Q: The film actor Maurice Micklewhite is better known by what name? A: Michael Caine
Q: Which racquet sport game is played by two or four players in a four-walled court with a small, hollow rubber ball? A: Squash
Q: The Boston Tea Party, where tea was tipped into the harbour to protest taxation, precipitated what historical event? A: American Revolution
Q: "The musical ""West Side Story"" is associated with which geographical area?" A: New York
Q: What is the branch of the Mediterranean Sea between Italy and the Balkans, with ports such as Bari, Venice, and Trieste? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: What mathematical tabular system was invented in 1614 by John Napier that changes calculations of, for example, multiplication and finding square roots to addition and division respectively? A: Logarithms
Q: What are oysters wrapped in bacon called? A: Angels on horseback
Q: Who perfected a process in 1880 for making sensitive gelatine dry plates for photography, and patented photographic roll film in 1884? A: George Eastman
Q: What infectious disease is characterised by catarrh of the respiratory tract and paroxysms of coughing? A: Whooping cough
Q: "The song ""Diamonds Are A Girl's Best Friend"" is from which musical?" A: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
Q: "The USS ""Constitution"", launched in 1797, earned the nickname of ""Old Ironsides"" when she defeated the British warship HMS Guerriere in the War of 1812. What is her hull made of?" A: Wood
Q: "Who directed ""Pat Garrett and Billy The Kid"", ""Convoy"", ""The Wild Bunch"" and ""Cross of Iron""?" A: Sam Peckinpah
Q: Pi, a mathematical constant whose value is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter, is the same value as what other ratio? A: A circle's area to the square of its radius
Q: "Who captained the Nautilus in ""20,000 Leagues Under The Sea""?" A: Nemo
Q: "In England, the Estates of the Realm are the Clergy, the Lords and the Commons. What is known as the ""Fourth Estate""?" A: The press
Q: Which one of the four provinces of Ireland includes Northern Ireland, and three counties in the Republic of Ireland? A: Ulster
Q: "Which actor, writer, producer and director, sometimes known as ""Number 6"", died in January 2009?" A: Patrick McGoohan
Q: "What does ""in vino veritas"" mean?" A: In wine there is truth
Q: What is the name of the bird in the Peanuts comic strip? A: Woodstock
Q: Three members of which family, between 1781 and 1850, discovered Uranus, compiled a star catalogue, mapped all the stars in the Northern hemisphere and founded an observatory to map those in the Southern? A: Herschel
Q: In darts, what is the next in the sequence 7, 16, 8, 11, 14? A: 9
Q: Shepherd's pie has what on top? A: Mashed potato
Q: What does the Federation Internationale de Natation administer? A: Aquatic sports
Q: Which country, the capital of which is Monrovia, was founded by the American Colonisation Society in 1820 as a home for freed slaves? A: Liberia
Q: "In what film did Mae West as Lady Lou (starring with Cary Grant) first say ""why'n'cha come up and see me sometime?""?" A: She Done Him Wrong
Q: What is an affliction of nose, throat, upper air passages and eyes caused by over-sensitivity to proteins of pollen in certain plants? A: Hay fever
Q: As whom did Mohammad Reza Pahlavi become better known? A: Shah of Iran
Q: Giuseppe Rossi, who was born and raised in Clifton, New Jersey, USA, was the top scorer with 4 goals in the men's association football tournament at the 2008 Olympics. Which team did he play for? A: Italy
Q: Which planet has a diameter of 7,700 miles and a mass 0.83 times that of the Earth? A: Venus
Q: Benjamin Franklin once wrote that nothing was certain in this world except death and what? A: Taxes
Q: According to Greek legend, who ferried the souls of the dead across the river that divided the world of the living from that of the dead? A: Charon
Q: "Who referred to her quarter final match against Svetlana Kuznetsova in the 2009 Australian Open as ""an out of body experience""?" A: Serena Williams
Q: Auditory refers to which of the senses? A: Hearing
Q: "The band currently touring as ""Eric Burdon & The Animals"" has which of the original Animals as one of Eric Burdons backing musicians?" A: Hilton Valentine
Q: The southernmost point of the USA is in which state? A: Hawaii
Q: Which author disappeared on a walk along the River Ouse near Monk's House, Rodmell, Sussex, England, in March 1941, leaving letters for her husband Leonard and her sister, the painter Vanessa Bell? A: Virginia Woolf
Q: How many signs of the Zodiac are human? A: 3
Q: "Which delta blues musician wrote ""Love in Vain"", ""Cross Road Blues"", and ""Rambling on My Mind""?" A: Robert Johnson
Q: "From which sport do we get the expression ""Struck out""?" A: Baseball
Q: What word did the Romans have for the City of London? A: Londinium
Q: In which film does Tom Cruise play Count Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg? A: Valkyrie
Q: Which US state borders Canada and the Connecticut River, and has the Green Mountains running through its centre? A: Vermont
Q: "Which German mathematician and scientist, sometimes called the ""Prince of Mathematicians"", completed ""Disquisitiones Arithmeticae"", in 1798 at the age of 21?" A: Carl Friedrich Gauss
Q: "Which month appears last in the rhyme ""30 days have September ""?" A: February
Q: Vanilla is obtained from what part of the plant? A: Pod
Q: "In which film was Wagner's ""Ride of the Valkyries"" used to underscore a helicopter attack?" A: Apocalypse Now
Q: "The US state of Kentucky is known ""the (what) Grass State""?" A: Blue
Q: Which railway, covering 4,607 miles from Chelyabinsk to Vladivostok, was completed in July 1904? A: Trans-Siberian
Q: Which US President spent his term of office in a wheelchair? A: Franklin D Roosevelt
Q: The trophy for which event, presented since 1936, has a bas-relief sculpture of the likeness of each winning driver, along with the driver's name, date of victory and average speed? A: The Indianapolis 500
