Q: What is the Scottish name for All Saints Day, a Christian ceremony grafted onto an ancient pagan ceremony? A: Hallowe'en
Q: What treaty was signed in Paris in 1815 after the overthrow of Napoleon, whereby Alexander I of Russia, Francis II of Austria and Frederick William II of Prussia agreed to apply Christian principles to the government of their countries? A: Holy Alliance
Q: "What was the first film made especially as a musical comedy, which included the songs ""The Wedding of the Painted Doll"" and ""You Were Made For Me"", by Nacio Herb Brown and Arthur Freed?" A: The Broadway Melody
Q: What sport is played in an area that can vary between 20 x 10 and 30 x 20 metres, with 7 players in play at any one time per side playing for around 8 minutes for each of four periods? A: Water polo
Q: With whom are the islands of Elba and St Helena associated? A: Napoleon
Q: Piles is a familiar word for what medical condition? A: Haemorrhoids
Q: Who died in 1972, which led to the accession of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark? A: King Frederik IX
Q: What is traditionally thrown into the Trevi Fountain, Rome A: Coins
Q: Which country was divided at the 17th parallel by an agreement made in 1954 in Geneva? A: Vietnam
Q: The Belgian artist Georges Remi is better known by what name? A: Herg
Q: "Complete Joseph Stalin's famous quotation ""One death is a tragedy, one million deaths is a """ A: Statistic
Q: What is the next in this series: Norway, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, ? A: Lithuania
Q: The symbol of the Olympic Games is made up of 5 interlocking rings, coloured blue, yellow, black, green, and what other colour? A: Red
Q: In which British sitcom does recently-widowed Audrey fforbes-Hamilton have to sell her manor house, which is bought by Richard DeVere, a nouveau riche millionaire supermarket owner? A: To the Manor Born
Q: What tree and its fruit is also known as the butter pear and alligator pear? A: Avocado
Q: The most southern part of the South American continent is on which Chilean archipelago? A: Tierra del Fuego
Q: "By 1922 Fred Astaire and his sister Adele were so popular that George and Ira Gershwin wrote ""Funny Face"" and what other show especially for them?" A: Lady Be Good
Q: The aim of which game, normally played on hard dirt or gravel, and also on grass, while standing with the feet together in a small circle, is to throw metal balls as close as possible to a small ball called a cochonnet? A: Petanque
Q: "Who was the star of the 1970's TV programme ""Policewoman""?" A: Angie Dickinson
Q: Which US holiday commemorates either a celebration by Spaniards on 8 September 1565 in what is now Saint Augustine, Florida, the arrival of 38 English settlers at Berkeley Hundred on 4 December 1619, or the Pilgrims activities in Plymouth in 1621? A: Thanksgiving
Q: The first of what event, organised by journalist Henri Desgrange in 1903, was won by Maurice Garin? A: Tour de France
Q: From 1781 until the adoption of the Constitution on 17 September 1787, the US government operated in terms of what document? A: Articles of Confederation
Q: What small green fish with blue reflections (due to a silver longitudinal stripe that runs from the base of the caudal fin) is found in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans? A: Anchovy
Q: Harvard University is in which state of the USA? A: Massachusetts
Q: "Which 20th century painter claimed to have invented a new technique called ""action painting"" and was called by the contemporary press ""Jack The Dripper""?" A: Jackson Pollock
Q: According to the Bible, who was the son of Isaac and Rebeckah, the twin brother to Esau, the husband of Leah and Rachel, and the father of Joseph? A: Jacob
Q: "Who founded ""Answers"" in 1888, and later founded Amalgamated Press in the UK which, at various times, owned ""The Evening News"", ""The Daily Mail"", ""The Daily Mirror"", ""The Observer"" and ""The Times""?" A: Lord Northcliffe
Q: What is the smallest state in the USA by land area? A: Rhode Island
Q: The food of the Gods is ambrosia: what is the drink of the Gods? A: Nectar
Q: After Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson won the 100 metre dash at the 1988 Seoul Olympics, why was his gold medal taken away and awarded to runner-up Carl Lewis? A: He failed a drug test
Q: "In the original meaning of ""decimate"", who is killed?" A: Every tenth person
Q: "Who starred with Bette Davis in the 1962 film ""Whatever Happened To Baby Jane""?" A: Joan Crawford
Q: To where, between June 1948 and May 1949, was over 1 million tons (up to 13,000 tons per day) of food, coal and other supplies transported by the aircraft of the USA, UK and France? A: Berlin
Q: The Australian city of Hobart is on which river? A: Derwent
Q: "if someone is said to ""have green fingers"", we expect them to be successful as what?" A: Gardener
Q: Off which Japanese island would you find the Straits of Soya and Tsugara? A: Hokkaido
Q: The invention of what game, needing only pencil and paper, is attributed to Clifford von Winkler in the early 1900s? A: Battleships
Q: Who was the Bulgarian dissident poisoned with ricin when jabbed in the leg with an umbrella on Waterloo Bridge, London, on 7 September 1978? A: Georgi Markov
Q: "Which painter, born in Delft, produced works including ""The Woman With A Water Jug"", ""The Pianist"" and ""The Lacemaker""?" A: Jan Vermeer
Q: Producer Alex Korda engaged Anton Karas to score which entire film, after it had been edited together, using only one instrument? A: The Third Man
Q: In baseball, what is the name of the position where the pitcher stands to throw the ball to a batter of the opposing team? A: Mound
Q: Which painting of five figures by Pablo Picasso in 1907 was criticised for breaking the rules of composition, perspective and truth to nature, showing dislocated shapes seen simultaneously from different angles? A: Les Demoiselles d'Avignon
Q: According to The Bible, who was the older brother of Moses, who set up a golden calf on Mt Sinai for people to worship? A: Aaron
Q: What is the English borough and market town on the River Otter in Devonshire, famous for lace making? A: Honiton
Q: Where was Skype, the software that enables telephone calls to be made via the Internet, developed? A: Estonia
Q: In the Christian calendar, Maundy falls on which day of Holy Week? A: Thursday
Q: The hero of which film starring Alec Guinness was a mousy bank clerk with steel-rimmed glasses and bowler hat who devised a plan to smuggle gold bars out of England disguised as small souvenir replicas of the Eiffel Tower? A: The Lavender Hill Mob
Q: After the signing of the Anglo-Ottoman Convention of 1913, Mubarak Al-Sabah was recognised by the Ottomans and British as the ruler of the autonomous caza of which city and its hinterlands? A: Kuwait
Q: What joint is between the femur and the tibia? A: Knee
Q: In L M Montgomery's book, where was Anne of Green Gables brought up? A: Avonlea
Q: How many kings of France were named Louis? A: 18
Q: City Of Dreams was the second casino owned by James Packer to open in which European ex colony? A: Macau, China
Q: Who is married to the Prince of Wales? A: Camilla
Q: What name is given by scholars to the first 6 books of the Old Testament of the Bible? A: Hexateuch
Q: Who supplies tyres for all A1 Grand Prix cars? A: Michelin
Q: Which overweight knight from three Shakespearean plays was the subject of an opera by Verdi? A: Sir John Falstaff
Q: Which residence of Scots kings was built next to a ruined abbey by James IV, and rebuilt by Charles II? A: Holyrood
Q: Who was the first US president to travel outside the USA while in office? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: What is the name for the measurement and description of navigable waters necessary for safe navigation of vessels? A: Hydrography
Q: "Which Beatle invested heavily in Handmade Films, the production company that made ""Life Of Brian"", ""Monty Python In Search Of The Holy Grail"" and ""A Fish Called Wanda""?" A: George Harrison
Q: "In which film starring Edward G Robinson are the main character's dying words ""Mother of Mercy, is this the end of Rico""?" A: Little Caesar
Q: Symptoms of what disease include fever, shivering, joint pain, vomiting, anaemia, hemoglobinuria, retinal damage, and convulsions, with cyclical occurrence of sudden coldness followed by rigour, fever and sweating? A: Malaria
Q: Which card game involves 2 teams of 2 players aiming to reach 7 points, with each trick taken above 6 counting as 1 point, using 52 cards, all dealt except the last, which is turned up as trumps? A: Whist
Q: What is a feud where the relatives of a murdered man take vengeance on the family of those who killed him, for generations? A: Vendetta
Q: "What is the subject of the study of ""limnology""?" A: Inland waters
Q: "The British TV series ""Porridge"" was set in what prison?" A: Slade
Q: Which two British Prime Ministers had the same name? A: William Pitt
Q: A stiletto heel gets its name from a type of what? A: Knife
Q: Leo Joseph Ryan Jr., the first US congressman to be killed in the line of duty, was murdered where? A: Guyana
Q: Which sea is part of the Arctic Ocean north of Siberia, bounded on the west by Novaya Zemlya and to the east by the Severnaya Zemlya? A: Kara Sea
Q: Which Grand Prix, that had taken place for 31 years at the same circuit, was dropped from the 2009 Formula One Championship? A: Canadian Grand Prix
Q: Which Greek poet (1200 - 850 BC) is famous for the poems popularly attributed to him about the siege of Troy and the wanderings of Ulysses? A: Homer
Q: Which American TV sitcom, originally aired from 1974 to 1984, presented an idealized vision of life in 1950s and early 1960s America? A: Happy Days
Q: Where did Horatio Nelson lose his right arm? A: Santa Cruz
Q: What make of car is associated with Trevor Wilkinson? A: TVR
Q: Which weightlifting lift was discontinued at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal due to difficulties in judging proper form? A: Clean and press
Q: Which chemical process is involved in changing ethyl chloride to ethyl alcohol? A: Hydrolysis
Q: "On what does the cast of Andrew Lloyd Weber's musical ""Starlight Express"" perform?" A: Roller skates
Q: What is the national park in Wyoming covering 3350 square miles that was opened in 1872? A: Yellowstone National Park
Q: The first of which make of car came off the assembly line at Fisherman's Bend in September 1948? A: Holden
Q: What name is given to the earth's crust? A: Lithosphere
Q: Americans call it a faucet. What do the British call it? A: Tap
Q: Which American photographer who lived from 1923 to 1971 was noted for her portraits of people such as transvestites, dwarfs, giants and prostitutes in unconventional poses and settings? A: Diane Arbus
Q: What strait connects the Persian Gulf with the Gulf Of Oman? A: Hormuz
Q: What name is given to a compound of carbon and hydrogen in various proportions? A: Hydrocarbon
Q: Who was the son of King John and Isabella of Angoulme who became King of England when 9 years old? A: Henry III
Q: Which country, once part of the Republic of Colombia under Simon Bolivar, became independent in 1830 and annexed the Galapagos Islands in 1832? A: Ecuador
Q: What is the science that deals with the principles and construction of timepieces? A: Horology
Q: In 1874 the Teddington Cricket Club began to draw up rules that were formally published by the Wimbledon club in 1883, for which game? A: Hockey
Q: What 1939 film, set during the American Civil War, starring Clark Gable and Vivienne Leigh, was based on a book by Margaret Mitchell? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: What, in October 1871, was one of the biggest U.S. disasters of the 19th century, killing hundreds and destroying about four square miles of city buildings? A: Great Chicago Fire
Q: Excluding Australia, what is the third largest island in the world? A: Borneo
Q: Which town in Lincolnshire, UK, is the birthplace of Margaret Thatcher, and has connections with Isaac Newton, Nicholas Parsons and Richard Todd? A: Grantham
Q: Which political organisation was founded by Jos Antonio Primo de Rivera in 1933, during the Second Spanish Republic? A: Falange
Q: Which film starring Clark Gable and Charles Laughton was set mainly on a ship at sea? A: Mutiny on the Bounty
Q: How did Hannibal die in 183 BC? A: Committed suicide
Q: "Which Greek mathematician, active in Alexandria during the reign of Ptolemy I and often referred to as the ""Father of Geometry"", published the textbook Elements?" A: Euclid
Q: Which country was proclaimed an independent republic under the leadership of Bernardo O'Higgins on 12 February 1818 after an army led by him and Jos de San Martn defeated the royalists? A: Chile
Q: Honeycomb is made of wax cells in what shape? A: Hexagon
Q: Hadrian's Wall, built following 122 AD, stretches for 73 miles from Solway Firth to where? A: Wallsend-on-Tyne
Q: Who was the first General Secretary of the International Olympic Committee and later became its President, serving until 1924? A: Baron de Coubertin
Q: What British sitcom, written by and starring Jennifer Saunders and co-starring Joanna Lumley, Julia Sawalha, June Whitfield and Jane Horrocks, was first broadcast by the BBC in 1992? A: Absolutely Fabulous
Q: "Which US-born naturalised Briton wrote ""Murder In The Cathedral"", ""The Cocktail Party"" and ""The Wasteland""?" A: T S Eliot
Q: If someone is injured and the blood flow is bright red and coming out in regular spurts, where is it coming from? A: Artery
Q: "What did Shakespeare compare ""Katharina"" to?" A: Shrew
Q: What is the name of the system of lakes, canals and rivers that enables shipping to get from the Atlantic to as far as Duluth, Minnesota, on Lake Superior? A: St Lawrence Seaway
Q: Which manufacturer of pens had a large production plant in Birmingham, UK, during the first half of the 20th century? A: Osmiroid
Q: Who established a precision tool making business in Manchester in 1883, and perfected a system of standard measurements and gauges? A: Joseph Whitworth
Q: Which calendar, introduced in 46 BC, had a regular year of 365 days divided into 12 months, and a leap day added to February every four years? A: Julian calendar
Q: Which song was sung by Aretha Franklin just before Barack Obama was sworn in as President of the USA in 2009? A: My Country 'Tis Of Thee
Q: Who, in 1936, was the last British man to win the singles event at Wimbledon until Andy Murray from Scotland won in 2013? A: Fred Perry
Q: What is the coastal region of Turkey, Syria, Lebanon and Israel known as? A: The Levant
Q: Who ordered the execution of Catherine Howard in 1542? A: Henry VIII
Q: What were the people who were part of Elvis Presley's entourage known as? A: Memphis Mafia
Q: The Summer Olympics are held how many years apart? A: 4
Q: What wood, a member of the walnut family, is often used in making tool handles, wheel spokes, drumsticks, lacrosse stick handles and skis? A: Hickory
Q: Who was the chief deity of the Romans, the equivalent to the Greek's Zeus? A: Jupiter
Q: Who had their first cooking series on UK television in the 1970s? A: Delia Smith
Q: "What is ""A"" in the International Radio Alphabet?" A: Alpha
Q: Who was physician to James I and Charles I, and whose chief discovery was to describe completely and in detail the systemic circulation and properties of blood being pumped to the brain and body by the heart, which he published in 1628? A: William Harvey
Q: Where did Sherlock Holmes lose his struggle with Moriarty but did not die after all? A: Reichenbach Falls
Q: What is the maximum number of individual players for Ludo? A: 4
Q: The Union Jack, the British flag, is a combination of flags of different saints. Where does the blue come from? A: St Andrew
Q: Babe Ruth played for which Major League Baseball team in 1936? A: Boston Braves
Q: Lake Huron is connected by the Sault Ste. Marie Canal to which other lake? A: Superior
Q: "What is known in poker as ""dead man's hand""" A: Aces and eights
Q: For a constant sound wave, what is the distance between successive crests called? A: Wavelength
Q: "Which character in ""The Rocky Horror Picture Show"" appears frequently in drag?" A: Frank n Furter
Q: Who were the brothers of Helen of Troy? A: Castor and Pollux
Q: "What appeared in a newspaper for the first time on 22 March 1904 in the USA's ""Daily Illustrated Mirror""?" A: Colour photographs
Q: What is the next in the series: Innsbruck, Austria; Grenoble, France; Sapporo, Japan; Innsbruck, Austria? A: Lake Placid, United States
Q: "Which Latin poet wrote ""Satires"", ""Epodes"", ""Epistles"" and ""Carmen Seculare""?" A: Horace
Q: What name is given to an ambassador to Great Britain who is representing a country that is a member of the British Commonwealth? A: High Commissioner
Q: By what name is Gordon Sumner better known? A: Sting
Q: Which species of llama from Peru and Chile is known for its soft, fine hair? A: Vicuna
Q: What was the name of the hurricane that badly damaged New Orleans in 2005? A: Katrina
Q: What is the smallest country in land area on the South American continent? A: French Guiana
Q: "In the ""Lord of the Rings"" trilogy, who did Gandalf fight at the Bridge of Khazad-dum before he fell into the abyss?" A: The Balrog
Q: Which Indycar racing driver married American actress Ashley Judd in 2001 at Skibo Castle near Dornoch, Scotland? A: Dario Franchitti
Q: "In cockney rhyming slang, what are ""Apples and Pears""?" A: Stairs
Q: The only original member, Ian Paice, still plays drums for which band? A: Deep Purple
Q: What makes it necessary to drive through Alabama to take the shortest route from Miami, Florida to Houston, Texas? A: Gulf of Mexico
Q: What name is given to a chemical compound in which water combines with other substances without alteration of the arrangement of the atoms in the water? A: Hydrate
Q: Who designed the yellow sheath dress with matching coat worn by Michelle Obama at Barack Obama's inauguration in 2009? A: Isabel Toledo
Q: Who, according to legend, discovered the principles of buoyancy while having a bath? A: Archimedes
Q: What is the capital of the province of British Columbia, Canada? A: Victoria
Q: In traditional English pantomime, which shrewd, witty, light-hearted character vied with Pierrot for the affection of Columbine, and was based on the Commedia Dell'Arte character Arlecchino? A: Harlequin
Q: The city of Miami, Florida, is at the mouth of which river? A: Miami River
Q: Competition for which cup, sometimes called the World Men's Team Championships, for international badminton competition among teams representing member nations of the Badminton World Federation, have been held every three years since 1948-1949 and every t A: The Thomas Cup
Q: "While most juries can only provide a verdict of ""Guilty"" or ""Not Guilty"", in which country can a jury decide ""Not Proven""?" A: Scotland
Q: Which American television sitcom that ran for 7 years from 19 September 1970 spun-off three television series: Rhoda (1974-1978), Phyllis (1975-1977) and Lou Grant (1977-1982)? A: The Mary Tyler Moore Show
Q: Who was the pilot of the US Airways plane that landed on the Hudson River in January 2009? A: Chesley Sullenberger
Q: The circuit at Parc Jean-Drapeau on le Notre-Dame, a man-made island in the St. Lawrence River, is named after which winner of the Formula One World Championship for drivers? A: Gilles Villeneuve
Q: What name is given to the potential difference measured across a conductor of 1 ohm resistance when current of 1 ampere is flowing? A: Volt
Q: Who won the 1986 World Cup Squash title, breaking another player's five year unbeaten run? A: Ross Norman
Q: "What was the title of the spin off TV show from ""Friends"", starring Matt le Blanc?" A: Joey
Q: What is a word for giddiness, often associated with a disease of the inner ear? A: Vertigo
Q: "Which English barrister, who wrote the play ""Voyage Around My Father"" and the TV series ""Rumpole of the Bailey"", died in January 2009?" A: John Mortimer
Q: The governor of which state was removed from office by the state senate in January 2009? A: Illinois
Q: What measure is used to measure the warmth of a duvet? A: Tog
Q: "Who wrote the ""Uncle Remus"" stories?" A: Joel Chandler Harris
Q: It is generally believed that which Ancient Roman festival, an archaic rite connected to fertility observed from 13 to 15 February, was converted by the Roman Catholic Church to honor the Virgin Mary which in turn became St Valentine's day? A: Lupercalia
Q: Which sport is played with a goal 12 ft wide by 7ft high, with a maximum of 11 players from each team able to be on the field at any time? A: Hockey
Q: Who, about to leave the Animals as bassist, brought Jimi Hendrix to London, signed him to a management and production contract and helped him form The Jimi Hendrix Experience? A: Chas Chandler
Q: Who is the individual responsible for the cleaning and maintenance of the interior of a residence? A: Housekeeper
Q: Tinnitus affects which part of the body? A: Ears
Q: Which award winning building was built directly underneath Waterloo Bridge, London, in the 1980s and has stalagtites (from water leaking through the Bridge) growing in it? A: Museum of the Moving Image
Q: Broadcasting from Germany to England in English in 1940, by what name was William Joyce better known? A: Lord Haw Haw
Q: What is the name of the type of curve traced by a point on a rolling wheel? A: Cycloid
Q: Which painter, designer of stained glass and engraver born in Ausburg, Germany, became painter to the court of Henry VIII and died of the plague in 1543? A: Hans Holbein
Q: "Which ""Great Fire"" is believed to have started at the bakery of Thomas Farriner (or Farynor) on Pudding Lane?" A: London
Q: Under English law, what was the earliest date that a woman could obtain a divorce with the sole ground of adultery? A: 1923
Q: What conflict in 1935 resulted in Mussolini annexing a large African territory for Italy, withdrawing in 1941? A: Abyssinian War
Q: Who wrote the music for the musical Cats? A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: New Zealander Michael Campbell is a leading player in which sport? A: Golf
Q: The meat is raw in what dish? A: Steak tartare
Q: In 1957, there were how many states in the USA? A: 48
Q: Altogether, how many strings are there on the four instruments in a traditional string quartet? A: 16
Q: "In 2008, the game of Cluedo was updated as Cluedo Reinvention"" with some new weapons. Which one of these was in the original game?" A: Lead pipe
Q: What town in South Australia has served a weapons-testing range since the 1950s, was the site of a detention facility for asylum seekers and refugees from 1999 to 2003, and was home to the Nurrungar satellite ground station until 1999? A: Woomera
Q: Who led the expedition that discovered The Titanic on the bed of the Atlantic Ocean? A: Robert Ballard
Q: What infectious disease, caused by a virus, is characterised by the eruption of successive crops of blisters? A: Chickenpox
Q: In September 1905 the government of New South Wales, Australia, voted to buy 1,000 miles of netting in attempt to control what? A: Rabbits
Q: What are the names of the twins born to Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie? A: Vivienne and Knox
Q: What contest, held between 24 teams, was played in Dubai between 5 and 7 March 2009, and was won by Wales? A: Rugby Sevens World Cup
Q: Who was elected Vice-Chancellor by the Swiss Federal Assembly in August 2005 and became Federal Chancellor of Switzerland in December 2007? A: Corina Casanova
Q: On 15 May 2002, FIFA announced that which nation would host the Football (soccer) World Cup in 2010? A: South Africa
Q: """Wisden"" is a reference book on which subject?" A: Cricket
Q: """Chateau Snavely"", ""Amanda's"", and ""Payne"" were three attempts to remake which UK TV series for the US market ?" A: Fawlty Towers
Q: "Who wrote ""Other people see things and say: why? - but I dream things that never were and say: why not?""" A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Until 1992, TASS was the official news agency for which organisation? A: Soviet Union
Q: Which 1940 film, a story of corruption in politics written and directed by Preston Sturges, is told in flashback by a bartender about his rise to, and fall from, being a state Governor? A: The Great McGinty
Q: Of the 16 states of Germany, 13 are termed area states (Flchenlnder). What are the other 3? A: City states
Q: Which film starring The Beatles concerned the theft of a ring from Ringo Starr by a religious organisation? A: Help
Q: What were first established by St Bel at Lyons, France, in 1762, and at London in 1790? A: Veterinary colleges
Q: "Who wrote the music for the musical (and later, film) ""Cabaret""?" A: John Kander and Fred Ebb
Q: What is the cube of 100? A: 1,000,000
Q: What is the name of the swampy area in Florida, south of Lake Okeechobee? A: Everglades
Q: What is the symbol for a fifth wedding anniversary? A: Wood
Q: Motorcycle riders attempt to impress judges with routines on a course consisting of multiple jumps of varying lengths and angles that generally occupy one to two acres (.4 to .8 hectares) in what sport? A: Freestyle Motocross
Q: Which musician's children are named Sarah, Kimberly, Sean, Liam, Renee, Alastair and Ruby? A: Rod Stewart
Q: "Who is said to be ""the father of history""?" A: Herodotus
Q: Around 2,000 of which type of rocket-propelled pilotless bomb was launched on London from 8 September 1944 to March 1945? A: V2
Q: In the USA, what is special about 2 February? A: Groundhog Day
Q: When did the Football Association in the UK present the FA Cup for competition? A: 1871
Q: In which state of the USA would you find Yosemite National Park? A: California
Q: Which empire, established in and around Cappadocia, was powerful in Asia Minor from 1400 to 1200 BC? A: Hittite
Q: Which sport, originated by native Americans and introduced to England in 1867, is played with a stick with a net on one end by 12 players per side on a field around 100 to 150 yards long? A: Lacrosse
Q: "Which English lawyer wrote ""Dulcamara"", ""Pygmalion and Galatea"", and ""The Wicked World"" before he became a librettist and lyricist for comic operas?" A: W S Gilbert
Q: "What was the name of the home of Captain Haddock, a character in the ""Tintin"" books?" A: Marlinspike
Q: Which 19th century scientist first stated the laws of thermodynamics and was made a Baron in 1892? A: William Kelvin
Q: In which 1940 film did the characters Adenoid Hynkel, Benzino Napolini, Garbitsch and Herring appear? A: The Great Dictator
Q: What small, oily fish, of which there are 15 species, found in the shallow, temperate waters of the North Atlantic, the Baltic Sea, the North Pacific, and the Mediterranean, move in vast schools, coming in spring to the shores of Europe and America? A: Herring
Q: Boadicea, Queen of the Iceni, is famous for leading resistance to the invasion of Britain by whom? A: Romans
Q: What is the next in this series: Los Angeles, Seoul, Barcelona, Atlanta? A: Sydney
Q: Which metal is liquid at room temperature? A: Mercury
Q: "Which soprano, who had a highly successful opera career between 1968 and 2004, starred as Maria in the ""operatic version"" of Leonard Bernsteins ""West Side Story""?" A: Kiri Te Kanawa
Q: For administrative purposes, France is subdivided into 100 areas which are called what? A: Departments
Q: Which UK TV series based around the fictional Holby City Hospital, focuses on the staff and patients of the hospital's Accident and Emergency Department? A: Casualty
Q: "Which Norwegian playwright wrote ""Hedda Gabler"", ""The Master Builder"" and ""Peer Gynt""?" A: Henrik Ibsen
Q: Which 1955 film was withdrawn from the Venice Film Festival when the US Ambassador to Italy, Clare Booth Luce, refused to attend because the film gave too alarming an impression of conditions in US schools? A: The Blackboard Jungle
Q: Who led the mutiny on HMS Bounty on 28 April 1789? A: Fletcher Christian
Q: """He was a lion on the field"" is an example of what?" A: Metaphor
Q: What is the name of the statue that was unveiled in October 1886, on Bedloe Island? A: Liberty Enlightening The World
Q: What is the capital of the province of Ontario, Canada? A: Toronto
Q: What name was given to the architectural style adopted in Britain from 1714 to 1820 largely due to the influence of Sir Christopher Wren? A: Georgian
Q: What is the Australian English word that means a small lake, such as is formed when the path of a creek or river changes, leaving a dead end? A: Billabong
Q: What is the only venomous lizard native to the USA? A: Gila monster
Q: What is the former name of Helsinki, Finland? A: Helsingfors
Q: "Who created the English aviator ""Biggles""?" A: Captain W. E. Johns
Q: Who became the King of Spain on 22 November 1975, two days after the death of Francisco Franco? A: King Juan Carlos I
Q: In 1434, Portuguese mariner Gil Eanes made a major breakthrough to obtain a reliable trade route to Western and Eastern Africa and India by finding a route around which cape? A: Cape Bojador
Q: What is the name for an artificial feature creating extra turns in a roadway, used in motor racing and on city streets, to slow cars? A: Chicane
Q: Which 17th century philosopher, mathematician, scientist, and writer invented the notation which uses superscripts to show powers or exponents (e.g. the 2 used in x to indicate squaring)? A: Ren Descartes
Q: The ozone molecule is made up of three atoms of which gas? A: Oxygen
Q: Where was the Congress held in 1814-15, chiefly between Britain, France, Russia, Austria and Prussia, that adjusted frontiers after the fall of Napoleon? A: Vienna
Q: The samba originated in which country? A: Brazil
Q: The Great Lakes are called Superior, Erie, Ontario and which other? A: Michigan
Q: What game is played in 4 quarters between two teams of 18 outdoors on a large oval grass field with two goal posts and two behind posts at each end, where the primary aim of the game is to score by kicking a ball between the posts of the opposing goal? A: Australian football
Q: Which film directed by Billy Wilder and starring Ray Milland, was about four days in the life of a chronic drunkard? A: The Lost Weekend
Q: What is the name for an intermittent hot spring, characterised by violent explosive eruptions of steam and boiling water, alternating with quiet periods? A: Geyser
Q: Who preceded George W Bush as president of the USA? A: Bill Clinton
Q: What, if decreased, will lower the boiling point of water? A: Pressure
Q: In 1996, it was rumoured that which company had influenced the International Olympic Committee to hold the Olympics in Atlanta? A: Coca-Cola
Q: The Dominican Republic and Haiti are the two countries that occupy which island? A: Hispaniola
Q: At the end of The War of 1812, the USA held Canadian territory near Detroit, and the British held parts of which Eastern state? A: Maine
Q: What is the deepest lake in the world? A: Lake Baikal
Q: What TV series was set on Craggy Island? A: Father Ted
Q: Which island fort, built to protect the port of Charleston, South Carolina, USA, was the site of the first action in the American Civil War? A: Fort Sumter
Q: The Passover is part of the calendar for which religion? A: Jewish
Q: "The game of ""racquets"" developed into which sport?" A: Squash
Q: Whose wife, Elin, gave birth to his son, Charlie, early in 2009? A: Tiger Woods
Q: All Scrabble tournament (and most club) games are played with a game clock and a set time control. Typically how long does each player have in which to make all plays? A: 25 minutes
Q: """Doo lang doo land doo lang"" is the start of which hit from the 1960s?" A: He's So Fine
Q: Where in Britain is Bishop Rock lighthouse? A: Scilly Isles
Q: Where would you find a eustachian tube? A: In the ear
Q: Islamabad is the capital of which country? A: Pakistan
Q: What is the name of the revised version of the game Cluedo, with changes to board, gameplay and characters, created in 2008? A: Cluedo Reinvention
Q: "Which 18th century painter and engraver is famous for his works ""The Rake's Progress"" and ""Marriage la Mode""?" A: William Hogarth
Q: "What is the common name for ""lentigo""?" A: Freckles
Q: The Tower of Babel is mentioned in which book of the Bible? A: Genesis
Q: "Who painted mostly in egg tempera, is best known for ""Christina's World"", and whose common subject was Helga Testorf?" A: Andrew Wyeth
Q: How many colours are there on the American flag? A: 3
Q: What is the next number in this sequence: 4; 16; 256; 65,536? A: 4,294,967,296
Q: Which poet is buried in an upright position in Westminster Abbey? A: Ben Jonson
Q: Who won a record six motorcycle speedway World Championships in 1968, 1969, 1970, 1972, 1977 and 1979? A: Ivan Mauger
Q: Who was the illustrator for the Tintin series of books? A: Herg
Q: At which Olympic Games did a water polo match between Hungary and the Soviet Union end as a pitched battle between the teams? A: 1956, Melbourne
Q: Bavaria is a state of which country? A: Germany
Q: Which British TV series, a contest to decide the best new pop singer in the UK based on viewer voting, debuted in October 2001 and became an international franchise? A: Pop Idol
Q: Which country lies between Spain and France, in the Pyrenees? A: Andorra
Q: "What is disrupted when ""Jet lag"" occurs?" A: Circadian rhythms
Q: She slopped her dripper is an example of what? A: Spoonerism
Q: What bands most commercially successful line-up, in 1969-73, featured Ian Gillan, Ritchie Blackmore, Jon Lord, Roger Glover and Ian Paice? A: Deep Purple
Q: Which country, after its Act of Union agreement expired, held a four-day plebiscite in 1944 and became an independent republic on 17 June 1944, with Sveinn Bjrnsson as the first President? A: Iceland
Q: Who, in the 16th century, was a member of the court of Ivan The Terrible and became Tsar on the death of Ivan's son, Feodor/Theodore? A: Boris Godunov
Q: "James Frederick Ferrier introduced which word to cover the branch of philosophy conerned with ""the theory of knowledge""?" A: Epistemology
Q: What is the name of a pipe originating in India and Persia where smoke passes from a bowl to a water bottle and thence by a tube to the mouth? A: Hookah
Q: The Snake River runs through Hells Canyon on the border of which two US states? A: Oregon and Idaho
Q: If Charlie Watts is playing drums, who is most likely to be singing? A: Mick Jagger
Q: Which castle, when used as a prison for prisoners of war in World War II, was known as Oflag VII C? A: Colditz
Q: What is the second longest river on the island of New Guinea? A: Fly
Q: What was the capital of Italian East Africa between 1936 and 1941? A: Addis Ababa
Q: Which archaeologist is famed for excavating the palace of Minos, Crete between 1900 and 1908? A: Sir Arthur John Evans
Q: Juan Manuel Fangio, Mario Andretti, James Hunt and Niki Lauda were world champions in which sport? A: Formula One
Q: At which Olympic Games were there new events including BMX (men and women), swimming marathon (10 km), and for the first time, women competed in the steeplechase and some team fencing events? A: 2008, Beijing
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister during the Falklands War of 1982? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Which tree native to Mexico, South America and Central America, part of a family of flowering plants, produces a fruit (technically a large berry) that contains a pit which may be egg-shaped or spherical? A: Avocado
Q: The Gila Cliff Dwellings and Fort Union National Monuments are in which US State? A: New Mexico
Q: How many US Presidents have been assassinated by being shot? A: 4
Q: How many white squares are there on a chessboard? A: 32
Q: In France, what would you buy in a fromagerie? A: Cheese
Q: What name is given to the unit of electrical power represented by a current of 1 ampere flowing through a circuit whose potential difference is 1 volt? A: Watt
Q: "In the British sitcom ""Absolutely Fabulous"", what is the name of Edina's daughter?" A: Saffron
Q: "Which German composer was assistant to Wagner at Bayreuth 1880-1, taught at Barcelona, Frankfurt and Berlin, and is best known for his opera ""Hansel and Gretel""?" A: Englebert Humperdinck
Q: "In which 20th century conflict did the ""Tet offensive"" take place?" A: Vietnam War
Q: "In which country is the area called ""the Algarve""?" A: Portugal
Q: What is the ordinal of one? A: First
Q: What is the name for a musical work primarily designed to develop the technique of an instrumentalist? A: Etude
Q: "By what name is Marian (or Mary Ann) Evans, who wrote ""Adam Bede"", ""The Mill On The Floss"" and ""Silas Marner"", better known?" A: George Eliot
Q: According to Christian legend, who, as Jesus was bearing the cross to Golgotha, offered him her veil to wipe his brow? A: Veronica
Q: What is added to water to make brine? A: Salt
Q: "Who first mentioned an ""Iron Curtain"" when discussing Soviet activities immediately after World War II?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: In November 1903, Panama declared its independence from which country to enable a treaty to be signed with the USA? A: Colombia
Q: Who, in 1977, was the last British woman to win the singles event at Wimbledon? A: Virginia Wade
Q: The Khedive of Egypt commissioned Giuseppe Verdi to write which opera to commemorate the opening of the Suez Canal? A: Aida
Q: "What are rotating stars that emit a beam of electromagnetic radiation that can only be observed when the beam of emission is pointing towards the Earth, which is called ""the lighthouse effect""?" A: Pulsars
Q: 1.1 million square miles of land in North America were the subject of what agreement in 1803? A: Louisiana Purchase
Q: Australian professional golfer Greg Norman is known by which nickname? A: The Shark
Q: What style of commercial vehicle body, incorporating an enclosed box body extended over the cab, takes its name from the town in Bedfordshire where the Bedford commercial vehicle plant was located? A: Luton
Q: In which country is the town of Gorgonzola? A: Italy
Q: "Who wrote ""The Water Babies""?" A: Charles Kingsley
Q: Which American situation comedy TV series that ran for eleven seasons from 1982 to 1993 had a core cast made up at various times of Ted Danson, Shelley Long, Kirstie Alley, Nicholas Colasanto, Rhea Perlman, John Ratzenberger, Woody Harrelson, Kelsey Gramm A: Cheers
Q: Which organisation, with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, was established as an agency of the League of Nations in the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and became a specialized agency of the United Nations after the demise of the League in 1946? A: ILO
Q: The trophy for the winner of the Australian Open Tennis Men's Singles is named after which champion? A: Norman Brookes
Q: What is a 1 ounce gold coin minted in South Africa? A: Krugerand
Q: Which movie star was found dead at her home in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California on 5 August 1962? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What is the study of fishes? A: Ichthyology
Q: Which automobile design has a passenger cabin with an integrated cargo space, accessed from behind by a single, top-hinged tailgate or large flip-up window, commonly with two rows of seats, with the rear seat able to fold down to increase cargo space? A: Hatchback
Q: In which city was the Sri Lankan cricket team attacked with a bomb, grenade launcher and rifles in March 2009? A: Lahore
Q: What is the most common colour of a topaz? A: Yellow
Q: "Who coined the term ""Big Bang"" to explain the difference between it and his theory of the expanding universe?" A: Sir Fred Hoyle
Q: Which of Shakepeare's plays was made into a film in 1953 starring Marlon Brando, James Mason, Louis Calhern, John Gielgud, Deborah Kerr and Greer Garson? A: Julius Caesar
Q: After twelve men met in his bedroom in 1844, what was founded by Sir George Williams? A: YMCA
Q: In rugby union, what is the name of the set play whereby eight members of each team pack together and attempt to heel the ball backwards? A: Scrum
Q: "The musical ""Kiss Me Kate"" is based on which Shakespearean play?" A: The Taming Of The Shrew
Q: In Greece, what is a dish that is mainly cucumber mixed with garlic and yoghurt called? A: Tzatziki
Q: Who discovered that an individual's fingerprints remain the same for their lifetime? A: Sir Francis Galton
Q: By what name is Paul David Hewson (born 10 May 1960 in Glasnevin, Dublin, Ireland) better known? A: Bono
Q: What ancient Sumerian city stood on the banks of the Euphrates River between 3200 and 2300 BC? A: Ur
Q: On 4 June 2008 the International Olympic Committee announced that the finalists to host the 2016 Olympics were Chicago, Tokyo, Madrid and which other venue? A: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Q: "The opening sequence of the film ""Airplane"" (also entitled ""Flying High"") is a parody of which film?" A: Jaws
Q: What name was given to a group of painters who first exhibited in Paris in 1906, including Matisse, Bracque, Derain, van Dongen and Dufy, who presented bold forms, brilliant colours and clearly defined patterns? A: Les Fauves
Q: Who was the first English actor to be knighted? A: Henry Irving
Q: How high, including about 20 cm landing mat, should a pommel horse be? A: 115 cm
Q: The repeating decimal of which number equals the real number 1? A: 0.999
Q: In what year did the airship Graf Zeppelin complete the first round-the-world flight in September, and inaugurate the first commercial transatlantic service in October? A: 1929
Q: The Rock of Gibraltar and Mt Abyla on the African coast were known as what? A: The Pillars of Hercules
Q: "What is the meaning of the word ""micturition""?" A: Urinating
Q: Which British music chart television programme was originally broadcast weekly from 1 January 1964 to 30 July 2006? A: Top of the Pops
Q: Which two American track and field athletes, who finished first and third in the 200 metres, were sent home from the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City after they performed the Black Power salute on the victory stand? A: Tommie Smith and John Carlos
Q: Who first stated the three laws of planetary motion? A: Johannes Kepler
Q: "What word is used in mathematics to mean ""if and only if""?" A: Iff
Q: Which military academy was established in 1802 on the Hudson River, USA? A: West Point
Q: In 1946, what did the USA offer to buy for $100,000,000? A: Greenland
Q: Which composer of musicals was knighted in 1992 and made a life peer in 1997? A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: What is the name for the unit of work done by a force of 1 dyne moving through a distance of 1 centimetre? A: Erg
Q: Which British organisation, started in 1939 under Basil Dean and disbanded in 1946, represented the mobilisation of the entertainment industry? A: ENSA
Q: What is the acronym developed by the European Union as the geocode standard for referencing the administrative divisions of countries for statistical purposes? A: NUTS
Q: The Gta Canal connects Gteborg, Sweden, with which body of water? A: Baltic Sea
Q: "Who started ""Poor Richard's Almanac"" in 1732, helped draw up the US Declaration of Independence and the US Constitution and invented the lightning conductor?" A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: What fictional Cincinnati radio station was the setting for a US TV sitcom starring Gary Sandy, Howard Hesseman, Gordon Jump, Loni Anderson, Tim Reid, Jan Smithers, Richard Sanders and Frank Bonner in 19781982? A: WKRP
Q: "Who emerged as the top Chinese Communist leader during the ""Long March"" in 1934?" A: Mao Zedong
Q: The first international test cricket score to exceed 700 runs was in which year? A: 2009
Q: Who was the English prison reformer from 1817 to 1840 whose husband was a big name in the cocoa business? A: Elizabeth Fry
Q: Henry Ford II's grandfather was Henry Ford. Who was Henry Ford II's father? A: Edsel Ford
Q: What was created by the Lateran Treaty signed by Italy in 1929? A: Vatican City
Q: Which boxer was filmed striking a gong, that was used as an introduction to films from the J Arthur Rank studios? A: Bombardier Billy Wells
Q: In 2009, Heath Ledger was the second person to win an Oscar posthumously. Who was the first? A: Peter Finch
Q: Americans call it a trunk. What do the British call it? A: Boot
Q: "In which computer game is the player in the role of ""The Stranger"", who uses a special book to travel to an island and thence to several worlds known as ""Ages""?" A: Myst
Q: Which Formula One team, founded in 1963 by a New Zealander, were the first to design a car using a carbon fibre monocoque? A: McLaren
Q: "What is the common term for ""pre-patellar bursitis""?" A: Housemaids knee
Q: Who had a morning show from June to October 1980 and a late night show from 1982 to 1993 weeknights at 12:30 a.m. at NBC in New York, then moved to CBS where the show screens at 11:30 p.m.? A: David Letterman
Q: What is a slight fluctuation in pitch caused by the player of a stringed instrument shaking a finger while stopping a string? A: Vibrato
Q: Who was the nephew of Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria and heir to the throne, who renounced his childrens right to succession in order to make a morganatic marriage with Countess Sophie Chotek and was assassinated with her in Bosnia in 1914? A: Franz Ferdinand
Q: Which US TV show, for which the cast list included Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Michael Richards and Jason Alexander, was set predominantly in an apartment block on New York City's Upper West Side (but shot mostly in Los Angeles, California)? A: Seinfeld
Q: Which pen manufacturer was founded in 1891 in Janesville, Wisconsin, USA? A: Parker
Q: When did the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), formerly the governing body of cricket in England and across the world, pass most of its global functions to the International Cricket Council (ICC)? A: 1993
Q: What were T S Eliot's first names? A: Thomas Stearns
Q: One of the earliest European explorers to reach Australia and New Zealand has which island named after him? A: Tasmania
Q: "What is the contraction of the German ""Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei"" in common use in English?" A: NAZI
Q: At which racecourse would you find Beecher's Brook and Canal Turn? A: Aintree
Q: Which city, previously the Roman town of Vindobona, became the capital of the Duchy of Austria in 1156 and the capital of Hapsburg power base in the 13th century? A: Vienna
Q: What was Lieut. C D Lucas, RN, the first to receive as a result of his involvement in the bombardment of a Russian fortress in the Baltic on 21 June 1854? A: Victoria Cross
Q: "The musical ""The King and I"" is associated with which geographical area?" A: Thailand
Q: Which Greek letter usually denotes the brightest star in a constellation? A: Alpha
Q: "Who tried to win back the America's Cup from the New York Yacht Club 5 times between 1899 and 1930 in boats called ""Shamrock""?" A: Sir Thomas Lipton
Q: "Who was ""The Hunchback of Notre Dame""?" A: Quasimodo
Q: Which journey by James Lovell, John Swigert and Fred Haise in 1970 almost ended in disaster? A: Apollo 13
Q: The lyrics of which song were inspired by the successful American defence of Fort McHenry in September 1814? A: The Star-Spangled Banner
Q: What is a name for a hand-held weapon, used to strangle someone to death? A: Garotte
Q: The first pilgrims sailed to America from which English Port? A: Plymouth
Q: At which Olympiad did the Olympic symbol of five rings officially debut? A: 1920, Antwerp
Q: "Who had hit records with ""Eh Eh"", ""Let's Dance"" and ""Poker Face""?" A: Lady Ga Ga
Q: The spiny leguminous plant called furze is also known as what? A: Gorse
Q: David Ben-Gurion became Prime Minister of the provisional government of which newly created country on 15 May 1948? A: Israel
Q: Which American was the first Western photographer allowed into the Soviet Union, the first female photojournalist for Life magazine, the first female war correspondent and the first to be allowed to work in combat zones during World War II? A: Margaret Bourke-White
Q: The volcano Mt Pinatubo is in which country? A: The Philippines
Q: Who created the character of Hercule Poirot? A: Agatha Christie
Q: "The military action popularly known as ""The Charge of the Light Brigade"" took place in which war?" A: Crimean War
Q: What is the electrical capacitance which 1 coulomb of electricity will charge to a capacity of 1 volt? A: Farad
Q: Where are sculptures of Robert E Lee, Stonewall Jackson and Jefferson Davis carved into the side of a mountain? A: Stone Mountain, Georgia
Q: Who became famous through three films made in 1955 and 1956, and died at the wheel of a Porsche in 1956? A: James Dean
Q: "The song ""Do Not Forsake Me, Oh My Darlin'"" from the film ""High Noon"" was a big hit for Frankie Laine in the early 1950s. Who sang it on the film soundtrack?" A: Tex Ritter
Q: Where did the Greek god Helios go home to sleep at night, where he lived with his brother, Eos? A: In the sea
Q: Lake Erie is connected to Lake Ontario by which river? A: Niagara
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Oedipus Rex"", ""Antigone"" and ""Electra""?" A: Sophocles
Q: Which constellation is just below the feet of The Great Bear? A: Leo
Q: What is the oldest commissioned naval vessel afloat? A: USS Constitution
Q: Apollo Creed is the enemy of whom? A: Rocky
Q: What is the name for radiations of a wavelength shorter than, and immediately next to, the visible spectrum? A: Ultra violet
Q: Where in Paris would you go to stand under the Eiffel Tower? A: Champs de Mars
Q: "Which English writer wrote ""Goodbye To All That"", ""I, Claudius"", ""Claudius The God"" and ""King Jesus""?" A: Robert Graves
Q: Sepoys, native soldiers, served under British command in which country? A: India
Q: Which country traditionally leads the opening parade of the Olympic Games? A: Greece
Q: At an auction in New York in March 2009, Vijay Mallya made international news by buying personal items belonging to whom? A: Mahatma Ghandi
Q: Of what descent was singer Bobby Darin? A: Italian
Q: Where is the Klondike River? A: Yukon Territory, Canada
Q: In the Christian calendar, what is the week before Easter, historically a time of abstinence from eating flesh, drinking wine and carrying on business? A: Holy Week
Q: Which Austrian, a pioneer in psycho-analysis, died in London in 1939, a refugee from Nazi persecution? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: What instrument is used for measuring relative humidity? A: Hygrometer
Q: Which instrument, with a range of around 3 octaves, has its lowest string tuned to C below middle C, with the others to G, D and A? A: Viola
Q: What do ethnologists call people occupying most of North Africa, after one of Noah's sons who is, according to legend, their ancestor? A: Hamites
Q: What was the name of the river, 200 m north of Rome, where returning generals disbanded their armies when returning from campaigns to keep order in or expand the Roman Empire? A: Rubicon
Q: Which film, directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring Robert Donat, begins and ends with public performances by The Memory Man in a London music hall? A: The Thirty-Nine Steps
Q: "The ""Zapruder film"" is famous for being a colour film of which event?" A: Assassination of John F Kennedy
Q: What word best describes a triangle where one angle is greater than 90 degrees? A: Obtuse
Q: Which Venezuelan river has the same name as a Womble? A: Orinoco
Q: Who invented a system of cartography whereby lines of latitude and longitude are drawn at right angles? A: Gerardus Mercator
Q: "What best selling novel begins ""The great fish moved silently through the night water, propelled by short sweeps of its crescent tail""?" A: Jaws
Q: The United Nations Charter was signed by 50 nations in San Francisco on which day? A: 26 June 1945
Q: Brogues are a type of what? A: Shoes
Q: In what board game do players compete to acquire wealth through buying, renting, and trading properties, with the object of bankrupting the other players? A: Monopoly
Q: William Crapo Durant merged Oldsmobile and what other car company to form General Motors? A: Buick
Q: In a popular children's story, what is the name of the young tugboat that saves an ocean liner? A: Little Toot
Q: "To whom did a crowd ouside the White House chant ""Na, na, na, na - hey, hey - goodbye"" in January 2009?" A: George W Bush
Q: What was the last engineering work completed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel? A: Great Eastern steamship
Q: In which country was the Althing, a legislative and judiciary parliament, founded in 930? A: Iceland
Q: "Which film from 1942 contains the lines ""Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world she walks into mine"" and ""Here's looking at you, kid""?" A: Casablanca
Q: Which US film actress married and divorced both Orson Welles and Prince Aly Khan? A: Rita Hayworth
Q: What artificial international language invented by Dr Zamenhof was published in 1887? A: Esperanto
Q: Gibbons are native to which continent? A: Asia
Q: What mechanical device allows the wheels of a vehicle to turn at different speeds when cornering? A: Differential
Q: Which Greek physician born in 460 BC to a family of priests and doctors lived most of his life on Cos and Cnidus and is generally considered to be the father of modern medicine? A: Hippocrates
Q: Where is the headquarters of the International Red Cross? A: Geneva
Q: "Who plays Mrs. Smith opposite Brad Pitt in the movie ""Mr. and Mrs. Smith""?" A: Angelina Jolie
Q: When Lieut Thomas E Selfridge became the first death in a crash of a powered airplane in 1908, who was the pilot? A: Orville Wright
Q: "In 1988, what was marketed as ""the game for your whole brain""?" A: Cranium
Q: The natural habitat of penguins is centred where? A: Antarctica
Q: Dick Francis wrote novels based in what environment? A: Horse racing
Q: A campanile is built to contain what? A: Bells
Q: L. Ron Hubbard is known as the founder of what movement? A: Scientology
Q: Who was the sister of film actress Joan Fontaine? A: Olivia De Havilland
Q: What is the highest national capital city? A: Quito, Ecuador
Q: Canis Major is also known as what? A: The Dog Star
Q: Which book by Sir Thomas More, his view of an ideal society with community ownership, was written in Latin in 1516 and translated into English in 1551? A: Utopia
Q: Near what French town did Marie-Bernarde (Bernadette) Soubirous reportedly see visions of the Virgin Mary in 1858? A: Lourdes
Q: Who designed the wedding dress for the marriage of Lady Diana Spencer to Charles, Prince of Wales? A: David and Elizabeth Emanuel
Q: "From which sport do we get the expression ""Thrown a curve ball""?" A: Baseball
Q: Which river, formed by the union of the Murad Nehri and the Karu Su, flows for 2781 km (1728 miles) through Turkey and Syria into Iraq, where it joins the Tigris to form the Shatt-el-Arab? A: Euphrates
Q: As of 2009, who is the only winner of a Formula One Drivers' championship to do so in a car bearing his own name? A: Jack Brabham
Q: """My Heart Will Go On"" is the theme from what film?" A: Titanic
Q: The Union Jack, the British flag, was first used in its present form in what year? A: 1801
Q: "Which 17th century English poet is famous for ""Paradise Lost"", ""Paradise Regained"" and ""Samson Agonistes""?" A: John Milton
Q: "Which UK TV series starred David Jason as market trader Derek ""Del Boy"" Trotter and Nicholas Lyndhurst as his brother Rodney?" A: Only Fools and Horses
Q: Gruyre is a town in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: Who was the commander of the Luftwaffe during World War II and died by taking poison after being condemned to death at the Nuremberg Trials in 1946? A: Hermann Wilhelm Goering
Q: What is the name for an alcoholic preparation of opium widely used in the 18th and 19th centuries to treat a number of different complaints? A: Laudanum
Q: "Which English composer, whose work was influenced by folk song and the music of the 16th century, wrote ""London Symphony"", ""Pilgrim's Progress"" and ""Sinfonia Antarctica""?" A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: What Christian festival is observed on the seventh Sunday after Easter? A: Whitsunday
Q: In the southern USA, what is the name for an embankment that allows the water to flow at a higher level than the surrounding land? A: Levee
Q: In darts, what is the next in the sequence 1, 18, 4, 13, 6? A: 10
Q: Which 1952 film, directed by Vittorio de Sica, was about a penniless old man (played by Carlo Battisti) and his dog, Flick? A: Umberto D
Q: Which flowering plant in the pea family, cultivated as feed for cattle, horses, sheep, and goats, is known in the UK, Australia and New Zealand as lucerne, as lucerne grass in south Asia and as Kuthirai Masal in Tamil? A: Alfalfa
Q: According to a survey carried out by Deloittes early in 2009, which was the world's richest soccer club at that time? A: Real Madrid
Q: In architecture, what is the name for an ornamental vertical groove in a column? A: Flute
Q: Zydeco is a type of music from which country? A: USA
Q: Who was the last king of Egypt? A: Fuad II
Q: Who served in the Crimean War (1854 - 56), was responsible for suppressing the Taiping rebellion in China in 1860, was governor of the Sudan 1877 - 79, and died there? A: General Charles Gordon
Q: "Which city would you go to to see ""Grant's Tomb"", a memorial to Ulysses S Grant, once President of the USA?" A: New York
Q: The foundations for which science were laid by Adam Smith in 1776 and followed up by people such as John Stuart Mill and David Ricardo? A: Economics
Q: "Where was the war that began in 1998 and sometimes referred to as the ""African World War"", that has been called the world's deadliest conflict since World War II, with 5.4 million people killed?" A: Congo
Q: In badminton, how many times may the shuttlecock be struck by each side before it passes over the net? A: Once
Q: King George VI had two daughters: Elizabeth Alexandra Mary and which other? A: Margaret Rose
Q: Who, in 2004, riding the prototype KTM 250-SXF four stroke, won the MX2 World Championship? A: Ben Townley
Q: Canada is divided into how many provinces and how many territories? A: 10 provinces and 3 territories
Q: The main ingredients of gunpowder are saltpetre, charcoal and what else? A: Sulphur
Q: "The song ""Hey There"" is from which musical?" A: The Pajama Game
Q: Who became the King of Norway on 17 February 1937? A: King Harald V
Q: "In cockney rhyming slang, what is ""Trouble and Strife""?" A: Wife
Q: "Which English novelist wrote ""Decline and Fall"", ""Brideshead Revisited"" and ""Officers and Gentlemen""?" A: Evelyn Waugh
Q: "In 1985 the Greenpeace protest ship ""Rainbow Warrior"" was bombed and sunk by French agents in which harbour?" A: Auckland, New Zealand
Q: Which computer game takes place in Liberty City, Vice City and San Andreas, which suffer from rampant crime, feuding between crime syndicates, random acts of violence from street gangs, organized thievery and murder, and corrupt city officials and police? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: The rest is silence are the dying words of which Shakespearean character? A: Hamlet
Q: "What was reported as being from ancient Greece by authors Lynn and Gray Poole in their ""History of the Ancient Games"", after they saw it carved on a stone when visiting Delphi In the 1950s?" A: The Olympic rings
Q: "How did the theme song for the TV show ""The Monkees"" begin?" A: Here we come
Q: "In music, which word means ""lively"" or ""animated""?" A: Vivace
Q: "Which Beatle played the role of Private Gripweed in Richard Lester's film ""How I Won The War"", co-starring Michael Crawford, released in 1967?" A: John Lennon
Q: Where are The Prince Edward Islands, two islands named Marion Island and Prince Edward Island, which are politically part of South Africa? A: Indian Ocean
Q: By what name is the writer Alfred Maximovitch Peshkov better known? A: Maxim Gorky
Q: Which painter, born in Antwerp, was invited by Charles I to be the court painter, and was knighted in 1632? A: Anthony van Dyck
Q: The Kodiak bear is native to which continent? A: North America
Q: What defence treaty was signed by Great Britain, the USA, France, Siam, Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan and the Philippines in 1954? A: SEATO
Q: Which canal joins the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans? A: Panama
Q: Mr McGregor is the name of the farmer in which stories? A: Peter Rabbit
Q: "What play ends ""So give me your hands if we be friends and Robin shall restore amends""?" A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: After a plague in 1633, in which German town did the villagers vow to present a living representation of Christ's Passion every tenth year? A: Oberammergau
Q: Which strong man appears in the Bible in the Book of Judges? A: Samson
Q: What name is given to a revolving tray that is usually placed in the middle of a dining table? A: Lazy Susan
Q: What is the name for a vertical division of a window? A: Mullion
Q: Which organisation founded by Lord Baden Powell and his sister Agnes was incorporated by Charter in 1915? A: Girl Guides
Q: Who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979? A: Mother Teresa
Q: "Which sculptor is famous for ""Bronze Age"" (1877), ""Burgesses of Calais"" (1889), ""The Kiss"" (1898), and is best known in England for ""Le Penseur""?" A: Auguste Rodin
Q: "What is the form of sugar called ""dextrose"" also known as?" A: Glucose
Q: Which American is famous for her photographs of John Lennon and Yoko Ono taken the day of Lennon's death, Demi Moore nude when 7 months pregnant, and, later, nude with a suit painted on her body? A: Annie Liebowitz
Q: Which English King signed the Magna Carta at Runnymede, Surrey, England, in 1215? A: King John
Q: What did the Romans call Ireland? A: Hibernia
Q: With what sport is Frank Bruno associated? A: Boxing
Q: The engines used in Formula One between 1960 and 1990 by Motor Racing Developments Ltd (known as Brabham) were Coventry-Climax, Cosworth DFV, Alfa Romeo, BMW, Yamaha, Judd and which other? A: Repco
Q: In the human body, adductors and abductors are types of what? A: Muscle
Q: Which lake in Canada has the same name as a constellation? A: Great Bear
Q: In Greek legend, who, the last king of Troy, was the father of Hector and Paris? A: Priam
Q: Who married film star Grace Kelly in April 1956? A: Prince Rainier of Monaco
Q: What term is applied to the situation when a woman has more than one husband? A: Polyandry
Q: Which orange-seller became an actress, then mistress of King Charles II, died in 1687 aged 37, and was buried at St Martin-in-the-Fields? A: Nell Gwynn
Q: What was the name of the first of the space shuttles that was used only for testing purposes? A: Enterprise
Q: What name was given to groups of runaway slaves in Jamaica and Guiana in the 17th and 18th centuries? A: Maroons
Q: The 10th competition of which sport was held in Dubai, South Africa, New Zealand, USA, Australia, England and Scotland in 2008/09? A: IRB Sevens World Series
Q: Where are the British Houses of Parliament? A: Westminster
Q: Which group of over 7000 islands has main islands called Luzon, Mindanao, Samar, Negros, Palawan, Panay, Mindora, Leyte, Cebu, Bohol and Masbate? A: Philippines
Q: "Where did the ""Mayflower"", carrying the Pilgrim Fathers, early settlers to Massachusetts, America, sail from in 1620?" A: Plymouth
Q: Calista Flockhart became engaged to whom in February 2009? A: Harrison Ford
Q: How many toes does a llama have? A: 8
Q: Where is the Ross Sea? A: Antarctic Ocean
Q: Ronan Keating was a member of which band? A: Boyzone
Q: What is the name of the major Greek stadium in Athens that was the venue for the opening and closing ceremonies, athletics events and the football (soccer) final at the 2004 Summer Olympics? A: The Olympic Stadium
Q: The Night of the Long Knives is associated with which political figure? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: "Who ""made some tarts, all on a summer's day""?" A: Queen of Hearts
Q: Which painters aim to convey a state of mind rather than create a realistic representation, such as El Greco, Bosch, Goya, Grunewald and Munch? A: Expressionist
Q: Who has played the role of Indiana Jones most often in films? A: Harrison Ford
Q: Which country has the longest straight stretch of railway line? A: Australia
Q: The Soviet Union did not participate in the Olympics until 1952, and from 1928 organised an alternative international sports event. What were these games called? A: Spartakiads
Q: In England, the monarch has the power of veto over any proposed legislation from Parliament by withholding the Royal Assent. Who last used this power? A: Queen Anne in 1708
Q: What name is given to the HQ of the USA's Department of Defence? A: The Pentagon
Q: What position has Boris Johnson held from 4 May 2008? A: Mayor of London
Q: What is the name for the change of direction when a ray of light passes from one medium (e.g. water) to another (e.g. air)? A: Refraction
Q: Who is associated with the Jaguar make of car? A: William Lyons
Q: Larry Mullins and Adam Clayton are the rhythm section for which band? A: U2
Q: Which islands in the South Pacific between New Guinea and South America were annexed by France in 1842? A: Marquesas
Q: In the 19th century, Edward Gibbon Wakefield set up which organisation to colonise New Zealand? A: The New Zealand Company
Q: What was the name for a form of stencil duplicator used for making numerous copies of a document? A: Mimeograph
Q: Which inert gas with a density 2.8 that of air was discovered by Ramsay and Travers in 1895? A: Krypton
Q: What building, built between 1754 and 1790 as a church to St Genevieve, was set aside as a mausoleum for famous Frenchmen in 1792? A: The Pantheon
Q: Who was shot at with poisoned bullets by Fanny Kepler in August 1918? A: Vladimir Ilyich Lenin
Q: "The last words of which book of the Bible are ""all is vanity""?" A: Ecclesiastes
Q: """Scandal"" was a film centring on the activities of which British prostitute?" A: Christine Keeler
Q: "Whose life was the 1980 film ""Raging Bull"" about?" A: Jake LaMotta
Q: In baseball, what is the name of the player who throws the ball to a batter of the opposing team? A: Pitcher
Q: Which country has the International Dialling prefix 44? A: United Kingdom
Q: When was English law changed to enable a child to be made legitimate by the later marriage of its parents? A: 1926
Q: What was the name of the group formed in London in February 1944 to plan the invasion of Europe under General Dwight D Eisenhower? A: SHAEF
Q: The lesser rosary, a string of beads used by Roman Catholics as an aid to memory during devotional exercises, has 55 beads. How many beads are there in the greater rosary? A: 165
Q: What is the popular name for Sirius, which is 9 light years from Earth? A: The Dog Star
Q: Who is the New Zealand-born physicist whose discoveries include most of the great advances in physics between 1899 and 1930? A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: What is the name of the Temple built to Pallas Athene around 480 BC, from which marble friezes and statues were removed by Lord Elgin in 1812? A: Parthenon
Q: "Which 17th century philosopher, mathematician, scientist, and writer has been called the ""Father of Modern Philosophy,"" through his books ""Passions of the Soul"", ""Principles of Philosophy"", ""Discourse on the Method"", and ""Meditations on First Philosophy""?" A: Ren Descartes
Q: Who beat Roger Federer in the men's Wimbledon final in 2008? A: Rafael Nadal
Q: "Who had a hit in 2009 singing ""Womanizer woman-womanizer youre a womanizer oh womanizer oh youre a womanizer baby you you you are you you you are womanizer womanizer womanizer""?" A: Britney Spears
Q: The theatres for which war included Odessa, Yevpatoriya, Sevastopol, Balaklava, Inkerman, and Kinburn? A: Crimean War
Q: Daniel Radcliffe is best known for playing which film role? A: Harry Potter
Q: Under what name did Helen Porter Mitchell perform opera? A: Dame Nellie Melba
Q: What is the name for the inherent property of matter to retain its state of rest or uniform motion in a straight line unless acted upon by external forces? A: Inertia
Q: In 2005, which championship had rounds in England, USA, France, Belgium, Turkey, Monaco, Germany, Bahrain, Australia, Malaysia, Italy, Spain, Canada, Hungary, Brazil, Japan and China? A: Formula 1
Q: Who was the Teutonic legendary hero who slew Fafnir the dragon? A: Siegfried
Q: In Great Britain, painted strips on the road to show where pedestrians should cross is named after which animal? A: Zebra
Q: "Who was the proprietor of ""New York World"" who made a bequest to award 12 prizes annually to American authors and composers?" A: Joseph Pulitzer
Q: "What 1966 Broadway musical was based on Fellini's film ""Nights of Cabiria""?" A: Sweet Charity
Q: What Indian word was used by the Portuguese for army servants and became applied by British to Asiatic seamen? A: Lascars
Q: The revolver, with a single barrel and a number of chambers for cartridges fired by a one-lock mechanism, was patented in 1835 by whom? A: Samuel Colt
Q: A cornea is found in what part of the body? A: Eye
Q: Who, according to the Sumerian king list, was the fifth king of Uruk around 2700 BC, and became the central character in one of the best known works of early literature, where he was described as two-thirds god? A: Gilgamesh
Q: Most of Georgette Heyer's romance novels were set in which period? A: Regency
Q: Which sport holds its World Cup, its largest tournament event, including over 3,000 athletes and held each October at Disney's Wide World of Sports in Kissimmee, Florida? A: Paintball
Q: What is the name given to an unidentified serial killer who was active in the Whitechapel area and adjacent districts of London, England, in late 1888? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: What is another name for a hippocampus? A: Sea horse
Q: Which mountain chain runs along the border between France and Spain? A: Pyrenees
Q: Hernn Corts de Monroy y Pizarro, known as Cortes, conquered which empire in the Americas? A: Aztec
Q: By what name is Saul Hudson, a Velvet Revolver guitarist and former Guns N' Roses guitarist, better known? A: Slash
Q: What is the name for an inflammation of the larynx characterised by coughing, harshness (or loss) of voice, choking sensation and difficulty in breathing? A: Laryngitis
Q: The first modern Olympic games as we currently know them were held in which century? A: 19th
Q: What religious sect that uses dancing as a form of worship was founded by Ann Lee, who migrated with her followers from England to New York in 1772? A: Shakers
Q: "If you went to Bizet's ""Carmen"", what would you expect to see?" A: Opera
Q: Which US state was the first to secede from the Union, in 1860, leading to the American Civil War? A: South Carolina
Q: "Which song begins with ""And now the end is near and so I face the final curtain""?" A: My Way
Q: The crane fly is also known by what name? A: Daddy Long Legs
Q: The airliner built in 1931 and capable of carrying 40 passengers, the Hannibal, was made by which company? A: Handley Page
Q: In chess, castling involves the rook and which other piece? A: King
Q: What reddish-brown bean-shaped organs lies in the abdomen just under the diaphragm, one on each side of the backbone? A: Kidneys
Q: Who is the eponymous lead character in a British mystery series starring Alan Davies as an eccentric magician's assistant who also solves seemingly supernatural mysteries through his talent for logical deduction and knowledge of illusionism? A: Jonathan Creek
Q: Romulus, co-founder of Rome, was deified after his death and worshipped as which God? A: Quirinus
Q: What is a form of cricket, originally introduced in the United Kingdom for professional inter-county competition by the England and Wales Cricket Board in 2003, that involves two teams, each of which has one innings? A: Twenty20
Q: "What chess piece is also called a ""castle""?" A: Rook
Q: Feta cheese sold in Europe must contain 70% of milk from what animal? A: Sheep
Q: By what name is an Ornithorhynchus better known? A: Platypus
Q: "What musical term means ""at moderate pace""?" A: Andante
Q: Bing Crosby died playing which sport? A: Golf
Q: Who is Norman Cook better known as? A: Fatboy Slim
Q: What is the name of the most famous art gallery in Paris? A: The Louvre
Q: In World War I, the troops of New Zealand and what other country were formed into a single Army Corps called ANZACs? A: Australia
Q: Lake Erie is connected to Lake Ontario by which canal? A: Welland Canal
Q: The Banks children are characters in which film? A: Mary Poppins
Q: Which part of the chilli is the hottest? A: Seed
Q: The Mason-Dixon Line, surveyed by Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, which became a popular name for the dividing line between the slave and free states, is the boundary between which two states of the USA? A: Pennsylvania and Maryland
Q: Whose lifetime total of 714 home runs was a record in Major League Baseball for 39 years, until 1974? A: Babe Ruth
Q: Which planet has a year of 687 days, a day of 24 hours 37 minutes, a diameter twice that of the moon and a mass one tenth of the earth? A: Mars
Q: What was the name given to rocks in the Straits of Messina opposite the whirlpool of Charybdis? A: Scylla
Q: "Who wrote the plays ""The Seagull"", ""The Cherry Orchard"", ""The Three Sisters"" and ""Uncle Vanya""?" A: Chekhov
Q: Which Formula One team, based in Woking, Surrey, UK, and founded in 1963 by a New Zealander, has won over 160 races, 12 Drivers' Championships and 8 Constructors' Championships? A: McLaren
Q: Who was the Greek Goddess of health, who was usually represented by a serpent on a staff? A: Hygieia
Q: Lake Louise and Fairview Mountain are tourist attractions in which country? A: Canada
Q: In 330 AD, Constantine the Great, Emperor of Rome, moved the capital from Rome to where? A: Byzantium
Q: What is the name for the meteorites that arrive at earth's atmosphere around mid November? A: Leonids
Q: No Direction Home is a documentary about whom? A: Bob Dylan
Q: What is a name for the building where monks live and work? A: Monastery
Q: The French call it La Manche. What do the English call it? A: English Channel
Q: What was the name of the man and his adopted son who were Roman military leaders between 216 BC (the invasion of Italy by Hannibal) and 147 BC ( the destruction of Carthage)? A: Scipio
Q: Where were the World Cycling Championships held in 2009? A: Poland
Q: Which doctor first explained the circulation of the blood in 1628? A: Harvey
Q: Macular degeneration affects what part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Rose and Jack were the lead characters in which film? A: Titanic
Q: How many Great Lakes, on the border between Canada and the USA, are there? A: 5
Q: According to Greek legend, the Sirens threw themselves into the sea and turned into rocks due to the beautiful singing of whom? A: Orpheus
Q: What is the name for the large bodies of water that are along the border between Canada and the USA and in southern Canada? A: The Great Lakes
Q: Who danced for King Herod and then asked for the head of John the Baptist? A: Salome
Q: Who won gold for the individual pursuit at the Track Cycling World Championships in 2009? A: Alison Shanks
Q: In May 2009, publicist Raymone Bain announced that she was suing who for US$44 million for five years' work? A: Michael Jackson
Q: The borders of which country which became independent in 1971 were established with the partition of Bengal and India in 1947, when the region became the eastern wing of the newly formed Pakistan? A: Bangladesh
Q: Which gas is the most common in the earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: In Britain, when was the Football Association formed to draw up the rules of Association Football (soccer)? A: 1863
Q: Mexico is on what continent? A: North America
Q: "Jacques Seguela wrote ""Autobiographie Non Autorise"" about Carla Bruni, supermodel-singer, and her most recent lover at the time, which was who?" A: French president Nicolas Sarkozy
Q: Who threw his shoes at President Bush during a news conference on 14 December 2008? A: Muntadar al-Zeidi
Q: From which Olympic Games were Germany and Japan excluded? A: London, 1948
Q: What type of tree is the coolabah, found in Australia? A: Eucalyptus
Q: "If someone is referred to as ""feline"", what animal are they being compared to?" A: Cat
Q: For a constant sound wave, what is the time interval between successive crests per second called? A: Frequency
Q: "The show ""Holby City"" was a spin off from which UK TV series?" A: Casualty
Q: Which Jewish sect whose revolt against Roman Emperor Justinian in 529AD was put down so severely that tens of thousands died or were enslaved? A: Samaritans
Q: "A fuss about nothing is called ""a storm in a ..."" what?" A: Teacup
Q: "Which Beatle wrote the music for the film ""The Family Way"", starring Hayley Mills and Hywell Bennett, released in 1967?" A: Paul McCartney
Q: What was the composer Wolfgang Mozart's middle name? A: Amadeus
Q: What was the first propeller driven ship and the first iron ship to cross the Atlantic? A: Great Britain
Q: A Duesenberg was a make of what? A: Car
Q: Who broke the world record for the pole vault at the Beijing Olympics? A: Yelena Isinbayeva
Q: What is the term for the geological feature that includes Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington DC, Augusta and Columbus? A: Fall Line
Q: What 2002 novel was made into a film starring Dakota Fanning and Queen Latifah 6 years later? A: The Secret Life of Bees
Q: How many players from each team usually make up a rugby league scrum? A: 6
Q: Which structure of cantilever design, designed by Sir W. M. Arrol, was begun in 1883 and opened in 1890? A: Forth Railway Bridge
Q: What name was given to the political scandal in the USA 1970s that led to the resignation of Richard Nixon, President of the United States, on August 9, 1974 and the indictment and conviction of several of his officials? A: Watergate
Q: In April 2009, who was found guilty of the murder of Lana Clarkson? A: Phil Spector
Q: The Great Western Railways City of Truro was unofficially recorded as the first steam locomotive to reach a speed of 102.3 mph (164 km/h) on 9 May 1904, but the 100 mile per hour (160 km/h) record was not officially recorded until 30 November 1934, by which locomotive? A: Flying Scotsman
Q: Which river runs through the town where Shakespeare was born? A: Avon
Q: "What does ""Zorro"" mean in Spanish?" A: Fox
Q: Which ship, the largest and fastest in the world, with steam turbine propulsion, then a revolutionary development in ocean liner design, was launched on 20 September 1906? A: Mauretania
Q: An American TV series starring Molly Shannon and Selma Blair is based on which Australian comedy series? A: Kath and Kim
Q: Big Ben is in which London building? A: Houses of Parliament
Q: In total, how many moons do the 4 planets closest to the sun have? A: 3
Q: What is the affectionate Spanish language diminutive that Mara Eva Duarte de Pern, the second wife of President Juan Domingo Pern of Argentina, was known by? A: Evita
Q: Which Saint's Day is 24 April? A: St George
Q: The northern border of which country is with the continental USA? A: Mexico
Q: What function must be applied to the numbers 10 and 5 to provide 50 as the result? A: Multiplication
Q: What was the popular name for Bethlem (or Bethlehem) Hospital, the first home for the insane in Britain established in 1403? A: Bedlam
Q: Which trophy, damaged by Benjamin Peri Nathan with a sledgehammer in March 1997, was restored to its original condition, free of charge, by London silversmiths Garrard & Co., who had made it in 1848? A: The Americas Cup
Q: "The initial slogan for the American War of Independence was ""No taxation without "" what?" A: Representation
Q: What name is given to an over-theatrical actor? A: Ham
Q: "Which long-running show spawned several television series, including ""Laverne & Shirley"", ""Mork & Mindy"", and ""Joanie Loves Chachi""?" A: Happy Days
Q: Ignis fatuus, a faintly luminous flame which hovers over marshy places is known as a Jack O' Lantern or what? A: Will o' the wisp
Q: Who created the character of Tarzan? A: Edgar Rice Burroughs
Q: King Harold was killed at the Battle of Hastings in 1066 when an arrow went into what part of his body? A: Eye
Q: Which UK TV series, set in Peckham, London, over 7 years chronicled the attempts of an ambitious market trader and his younger brother to get rich? A: Only Fools and Horses
Q: What is the name of the mountain range that runs for 870 miles for the full length of Italy? A: Apennines
Q: The first official World Cup for which sport, that requires navigational skills using a map and compass to navigate from point to point in diverse and usually unfamiliar terrain, was held in 1986? A: Orienteering
Q: "Who wrote the songs for the film version of ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: Harold Arlen and E Y Harburg
Q: Which university, in 1878, was the first in Britain to make all degrees open to women? A: University of London
Q: What is the name of a whirlpool between two islands of the Lofoten Group north west of Norway, which is the result of opposing tidal currrents sweeping through a narrow channel? A: Maelstrom
Q: Which book of the Bible contains the story of the visit of the Queen of Sheba to the court of King Solomon? A: 1 Kings
Q: "Who was the star of ""8 Mile"" (2002) a hip-hop drama film which was a fictionalized account of his growing up in Detroit and early career in rap?" A: Eminem
Q: At the 1972 Olympic Games at Munich, which 16-year-old Soviet gymnast won three gold medals? A: Olga Korbut
Q: What secret organisation of Irishmen in the Scranton Anthracite Mining district of Pennsylvania 1865 - 1875, was in violent conflict with the mine owners? A: Molly Maguires
Q: In which country is the city of Tangier? A: Morocco
Q: Which politician issued a CD of love songs that he had written and co-written, in 2003? A: Silvio Berlusconi
Q: What is another name for the larkspur? A: Delphinium
Q: "The term ""musket"" strictly refers to a firearm with what?" A: A smooth bore
Q: What is the maximum number of players allowed on the field during a game of Rugby Sevens? A: 14
Q: In which 1925 silent film, directed by Fred Niblo, were extras offered a prize of $100 to the winner to make a race more exciting, resulting in a horrendous crash that remains in the movie? A: Ben-Hur
Q: What is the name of the result of the complete census of England carried out under the instructions of William I in 1086? A: Domesday Book
Q: Who won the Women's Cricket World Cup played at Sydney, Australia, in 2009? A: England
Q: Samoa, Hawaii and the Tokelau Islands are part of which geographic area? A: Polynesia
Q: Pharology is the study of what? A: Lighthouses and signal lights
Q: Who is the lead singer of the Rolling Stones? A: Mick Jagger
Q: "The last line of which 1939 film, spoken by Judy Garland, is ""If I ever again go looking for my heart's desire, I won't go looking any further than my own backyard""?" A: The Wizard Of Oz
Q: Which Scottish sailor was rescued four years after being put ashore by William Dampier at Juan Fernandez in 1703, for insubordination? A: Alexander Selkirk
Q: Where are The Kerguelen Islands, a territory of France, also known as Desolation Island? A: Indian Ocean
Q: "Which band had a hit record in 1980 with ""London Calling""?" A: The Clash
Q: What word means staying in one place and electrical interference? A: Static
Q: Which country was represented by Hanni Wenzel, who won the women's giant slalom and slalom at the Lake Placid Winter Olympics in 1980? A: Liechtenstein
Q: What gambling game is based on a wheel with 37 compartments? A: Roulette
Q: Which country would you go to in order to travel up the Amazon River? A: Brazil
Q: Where, 25 miles West of Knoxville, Tennessee, was an Atomic Bomb Research Station set up in 1942? A: Oak Ridge
Q: What are the 26 areas called that make up The Swiss Confederation? A: Cantons
Q: Which colour in the visible spectrum has the longest wavelength? A: Red
Q: In which country was there a civil war between 1936 and 1939, which was won by General Franco's forces? A: Spain
Q: Who has won the most Olympic Gold medals? A: Michael Phelps, USA
Q: "According to the nursery rhyme, who could ""eat no fat"", while his wife could ""eat no lean""?" A: Jack Spratt
Q: "Where is the newspaper ""The Village Voice"" published?" A: New York
Q: Where is the House of Keys the governing body, with 24 elected members? A: Isle of Man
Q: In the 7th to 9th century, which kingdom of England was between the Thames and the Trent? A: Mercia
Q: Stanley Mathews played which position for the English football team? A: Inside right
Q: "The English version of ""The Magic Roundabout"", a children's television programme created in France was broadcast from 18 October 1965 to January 1977. It was narrated by the father of which actress?" A: Emma Thompson
Q: What is the name for a straight line drawn from the centre of a circle to the circumference? A: Radius
Q: Who succeeded Lenin as the leader of the Soviet Union when he died in 1924? A: Joseph Stalin
Q: "A painting by Sandro Botticelli that depicts a goddess, having emerged from the sea as a full grown woman, arriving at the sea-shore on a sea shell is called ""The Birth of ... "" who?" A: Venus
Q: Which mountain range runs through the US states of Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico? A: The Rocky Mountains
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who was quite contrary and had an unusual garden? A: Mary
Q: What name is given to the rocks that orbit the sun mainly between Mars and Jupiter? A: Asteroids
Q: "What was the first name of ""Rumpole of the Bailey""?" A: Horace
Q: Who became the King of Sweden on 15 September 1973? A: King Carl XVI Gustaf
Q: Where does kapok, use for stuffing mattresses and cushions, come from? A: Trees
Q: Sun Myung Moon is known as the founder of what movement? A: Unification Church
Q: Near the end of August 2009, Australia lost to England by 197 runs in what sport? A: Cricket
Q: Which province of Ireland comprises the counties of Clare, Kerry, Cork, Tipperary, Limerick and Waterford? A: Munster
Q: Which German is responsible for driving the Russians out of Germany at the Battle of Tannenburg in 1914, became head of all German armies in 1916, and was elected President of the Republic in 1925? A: von Hindenburg
Q: Which propagandist broadcaster during World War II was jailed for 10 years in October 1949? A: Tokyo Rose
Q: What is a simple container for stirring, mixing and heating liquids commonly used in many laboratories, generally cylindrical in shape, with a flat bottom and a lip for pouring? A: Beaker
Q: Who wrote children's books featuring Noddy and Big Ears, and the Famous Five? A: Enid Blyton
Q: "According to a fragment of ""The Achilleid"", written by Statius in the first century AD, when Achilles the mythological Greek hero was born, his mother tried to make him immortal by dipping him in the river Styx. Where was he left vulnerable?" A: Heel
Q: The Neckar, Main and Ruhr are tributaries of which river? A: Rhine
Q: At the medal ceremonies for events at the Olympics, national anthems are played for those who have which placing(s)? A: First place
Q: Who formally became Emperor of Japan in 1926 and became its constitutional monarch in 1946? A: Hirohito
Q: "Which band, comprising David Byrne, Chris Frantz, Jerry Harrison and Tina Weymouth, had hit records including ""Burning Down the House"" and ""Psycho Killer""?" A: Talking Heads
Q: What ocean borders the US state of Georgia? A: Atlantic
Q: What is the world's largest rodent? A: Capybara
Q: In chess, what piece is allowed to jump over other pieces? A: Knight
Q: Which Canadian portrait photographer of Armenian heritage photographed Winston Churchill in his studio in Ottawa on 30 December, 1941, which, it is claimed, is the most reproduced photographic portrait in history? A: Yousuf Karsh
Q: To an imaginary observer above the North Pole, which way would the earth appear to rotate? A: Anti-clockwise
Q: What is another name for a sweater? A: Pullover
Q: What was ordered by Pope Paul IV in 1555 to be set up on the left bank of the Tiber? A: Ghetto
Q: What is the largest country by land area in Africa? A: Algeria
Q: "Who wrote the series of books about ""Budgie The Helicopter""?" A: Sarah Ferguson
Q: "During World War II, in north Africa, who was known as ""The Desert Fox""?" A: Erwin Rommel
Q: What colours are on the flag used to signify the finish of a Formula One motor race? A: Black and white
Q: The last edition of which British music chart television programme was broadcast on 30 July 2006 after running for 41 1/2 years? A: Top of the Pops
Q: The Koran is the sacred book of which religion? A: Islam
Q: If you travelled downstream from the Victoria Falls on the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe, which country would you be in when you reached the ocean? A: Mozambique
Q: "Idris el Senussi, Emir or Cyrenu, was made the first king of what ""United Kingdom"" on 24 December 1951?" A: Libya
Q: What is the name for the area of the Atlantic Ocean south east of Bermuda distinguished by the mass of brown seaweed that floats there? A: Sargasso Sea
Q: In May 2009, suspected NAZI death camp guard John Demjanjuk was deported from where to Germany? A: Ohio, USA
Q: What famous picture was stolen from its frame in the Louvre in 1911, was recovered in Florence and returned in 1913? A: Mona Lisa
Q: What town 16 miles north of Boston, Massachusetts, USA, dominated by the Puritans in the 17th century, was famous for its witchcraft trials? A: Salem
Q: What device found on ships from the 18th century, consists of a telescope, a graduated arc and two mirrors, one of which is attached to a moveable arm? A: Sextant
Q: Who was Madonna's first husband? A: Sean Penn
Q: What is the next in the series: Antwerp; Paris; Amsterdam; Los Angeles? A: Berlin
Q: "Casts of Sir George Frampton's statue of ""Peter Pan"" are in Kensington Gardens, London; Sefton Park, Liverpool; Camden, New Jersey, USA; Perth, Australia; Toronto, Canada; Bowring Park, St. John's, Canada and which other location?" A: Brussels, Belgium
Q: What is the east coast of Nicaragua, fronting the Caribbean Sea, called? A: Mosquito Coast
Q: What was abolished throughout the British Empire in 1833? A: Slavery
Q: Who made the first solo non-stop crossing of the Atlantic in 1927? A: Charles Lindbergh
Q: Which US TV show, where the star appeared as a fictionalised version of himself with his friends George Costanza, Elaine Benes and Cosmo Kramer, ran for 9 seasons? A: Seinfeld
Q: What preparation, consisting mainly of citron, orange, bergamot, neroli and rosemary, was first prepared by Johann Maria Farina soon after 1700? A: Eau de Cologne
Q: Which city was founded by Sir Stamford Raffles as a trading settlement in 1819? A: Singapore
Q: The Greek tragedians Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides wrote dramas dealing with which legendary woman? A: Electra
Q: The River Danube is on what continent? A: Europe
Q: "For what is ""Halliwell's"" is a reference book?" A: Film
Q: What is the name of the classic English horse race run at Epsom, two days after the Derby? A: The Oaks
Q: In March 2009, 53rd Street in New York city was renamed what? A: U2 Way
Q: With what do artists working in oils wash their brushes? A: Turpentine
Q: What is the name for the centre of an atom? A: Nucleus
Q: In 1978, after escaping from Iran, where was the Ayatollah Khomeini granted political asylum? A: France
Q: What is the name of the obelisk brought from Heliopolis, Egypt, that now stands in London? A: Cleopatra's Needle
Q: What is the symbol for a 13th wedding anniversary? A: Lace
Q: How many sides does a dodecahedron have? A: 12
Q: The first Winter Olympic Games were held in what year? A: 1924
Q: In tennis, the annual Grand Slam season consists of the French Open, the U.S. Open, the Wimbledon Championship and which other? A: Australian Open
Q: What word can mean a tumble-down dwelling and a sailors' work song? A: Shanty
Q: Where did an icthyosaurus live? A: Sea
Q: Who has been Prime Minister of France twice and President of France once? A: Jacques Chirac
Q: If a steam locomotive is described as a 2-4-0, how many driving wheels does it have? A: 4
Q: Which islands mostly belong to the USA, since they were purchased from Denmark in 1917? A: Virgin Islands
Q: Nathan, Caleb, Matthew and Jared Followill are better known as which pop group? A: The Kings of Leon
Q: The last time that anyone spoke to Adolf Hitler, he was in what city? A: Berlin
Q: "The lines ""You are the reason that I breathe, you are the reason that I still believe, you are my destiny"" is from the theme song to which film?" A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Where is the headquarters of the Surrey County Cricket Club? A: The Oval
Q: "For which novel, a study of provincial life published in 1856, was the author, Gustave Flaubert, and his publisher prosecuted for ""an offence against morals""?" A: Madame Bovary
Q: Which harbour, a US naval base, was attacked by Japanese aeroplanes on 7 December 1941? A: Pearl
Q: Bayonet and screw are types of fitting for what? A: Light bulb
Q: What card game, also known as Trente-et-Quarante, is played with 6 packs of cards, some of which are dealt in two rows? A: Rouge-et-Noir
Q: How long is a year on the planet Mercury? A: 88 days
Q: "What is another name for the second magnitude star ""Alpha"" in the Little Bear Constellation which is the nearest conspicuous star to the north celestial pole?" A: Pole star
Q: What is the capital of the province of Quebec, Canada? A: Quebec
Q: "Which Ohio-born woman joined Buffalo Bill's Wild West show and was known as ""the greatest woman marksman of all time""?" A: Annie Oakley
Q: Which golfer was named as Sports Illustrated's Sportsman of the Year in 1996? A: Tiger Woods
Q: "What is another name for ""laughing gas""?" A: Nitrous oxide
Q: "Who is the star of TV series ""The F Word"" and ""Hell's Kitchen""?" A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: Which capital city is on the northern bank of the La Plata estuary? A: Montevideo
Q: In what year was the German Empire, including all the German states except Austria, with the King of Prussia as emperor, founded? A: 1871
Q: When the Olympic flame is about to be taken to the venue for the next Olympic Games, it is lit in which city? A: Athens
Q: What is the name of the multi-sport event for athletes with physical and visual disabilities, including athletes with mobility disabilities, amputations, blindness, and cerebral palsy, that are held every 4 years, following the Olympic Games? A: The Paralympic Games
Q: What is the smallest interval in European music, of which 12 make an octave? A: Semitone
Q: In which century was the Suez Canal opened? A: 19th
Q: What is the name of the blocks that support rails for railway tracks? A: Sleepers
Q: What is the largest loch in Scotland? A: Lomond
Q: What is pognophobia the fear of? A: Beards
Q: What city was founded on the island of Manhattan by Peter Minuit in 1626? A: New Amsterdam
Q: Before 1945, what was the city of Gdansk called? A: Danzig
Q: Which Sultan of Egypt ruled an expanding empire that included Syria, Mesopotamia, and most of Asia Minor until stopped in 1192 by Richard I in the first Crusade? A: Saladin
Q: Where was a battle fought between General Robert E Lee and General Meade from 1 to 3 July 1863, which is generally accepted as the turning point of the American Civil War? A: Gettysburg
Q: What was patented in London by Ralph Wedgewood in 1806? A: Carbon paper
Q: In international sport, what is the IPL? A: Indian Premier League
Q: What was invented by Elias Howe in 1846 and improved by Isaac Merritt Singer? A: Sewing machine
Q: Who invented an early form of fragmentation shell that was first used by the British army in 1803? A: Henry Shrapnel
Q: In a film script, what do the letters POV mean? A: Point Of View
Q: Laurence Olivier directed and starred in a 1944 film, which began in the Globe Theatre and then gradually shifted to a realistic evocation of the Battle of Agincourt, which was adapted from which one of Shakespeare's plays? A: Henry V
Q: What painting medium consists of pigment suspended in water? A: Gouache
Q: Who was Queen of England between 1837 and 1901? A: Victoria
Q: Rheumatism affects what part of the body? A: Joints
Q: The Scrabble game board is marked with what sized grid? A: 15 by 15
Q: What name was given to Nepalese soldiers recruited into the Indian army? A: Gurkhas
Q: Which river, the longest in France, empties into the Atlantic at St. Lazaire? A: Loire
Q: Who was the American poet who worked for Mussolini to broadcast propaganda to the USA, was tried for treason in 1945 and was judged to be insane? A: Ezra Pound
Q: In a TV series, who lived in the town of Bedrock? A: The Flintstones
Q: Eamon de Valera was a politician in which country? A: Republic of Ireland
Q: "What is the name of the square in the UK TV series ""EastEnders""?" A: Albert Square
Q: What is claustrophobia the fear of? A: Confined spaces
Q: Which family has been awarded the most Nobel Prizes? A: Curie
Q: To what is Lake Erie connected by the Erie canal? A: Hudson River
Q: "What standard distance was selected because it was expected to be ""one ten millionth of the quadrant of the earth's meridian""" A: Metre
Q: Andy Warhol is associated with what sort of art? A: Pop
Q: Which section of the British forces made a famous charge against Russian forces at Balaklava on 25 October 1854 during the Crimean War? A: The Light Brigade
Q: In Israel in 2009, what did they call the world outbreak of swine flu? A: Mexico flu
Q: Which famous artist and ornithologist is the son of an Antarctic explorer and adventurer? A: Peter Scott
Q: In 1953 Ethel and Julius Rosenberg were executed in the USA for spying for which country? A: Soviet Union
Q: If you were watching a game between the Red Sox and the Yankees, what sport would they be playing? A: Baseball
Q: What is the name given to river crossing suitable for vehicles? A: Ford
Q: International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge used to play which sport, representing Belgium? A: Rugby union
Q: What fluid has groups called A, B, AB and O? A: Blood
Q: "What sort of animals were ""Lady and The Tramp"", the main roles in a Walt Disney cartoon released in 1955?" A: Dogs
Q: Who nailed a paper with 95 theses as a basis for debate with Friar John Tetzel to a church door at Wittenberg on 31 October 1517? A: Martin Luther
Q: Who devised a practical system for classifying fingerprints? A: Sir Edward Henry
Q: Cotswold, Southdown, Dorset, Lonk and Lincoln are breeds of what animal? A: Sheep
Q: Which sport, a version of which had been a medal sport in 1924, and a demonstration sport in 1928, 1936 and 1948, became an official Winter Olympic sport in 1960? A: Biathlon
Q: Who was the hero of a number of tall stories by Rudolph Erich Raspe, published in 1785? A: Baron von Munchausen
Q: FINA announced in November 2008 that the cities that had expressed interest in hosting the 2013 World Aquatics Championships were Belgrade (Serbia), Budapest and Balatonfred (Hungary), Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Hamburg (Germany), Hong Kong (China), Madrid (Spain), and which other? A: Moscow (Russia)
Q: What is the capital of the archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean called The Falkland Islands? A: Stanley
Q: "The ""Saucy Jacky"" postcard, received by Scotland Yard in 1888, was claimed to have been written by whom?" A: Jack the Ripper
Q: How was Joan of Arc killed in 1431 after she was captured by the Burgundians, sold to the English and tried by an ecclesiastical court? A: Burnt at the stake
Q: What is the generic name for all of the greater festivals of the Christian Church? A: Sacraments
Q: Irish is one of the official languages of the Republic of Ireland. What is the other? A: English
Q: The excavation of what city, destroyed in 79AD, was begun in 1748? A: Pompeii
Q: Whose trademark wardrobe included a bowler hat and cane? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: If Guy Berryman and Will Champion are the rhythm section, what is the band? A: Coldplay
Q: What nationality is sailor Russell Coutts, MBE, winner of numerous international match races, World Championships victories and America's Cups? A: New Zealander
Q: The theatres for which war included North Africa, the Philippines, Italy, Germany and Crete? A: World War II
Q: Mount Etna and the Plain of Catania are on which island? A: Sicily
Q: "Which Irish dramatist wrote ""The Rivals"" and ""The School for Scandal""?" A: Richard Brinsley Butler Sheridan
Q: "Who released an album in May 2009 called ""21st Century Breakdown""?" A: Green Day
Q: What was the name given to a type of xylophone consisting of large stones, dating from 2,500 - 4,000 BC found in China? A: Lithophone
Q: When was the first trans-Atlantic telephone cable service opened? A: 1956
Q: "Who starred in ""Mogambo"", ""Dial M For Murder"", ""Rear Window"" and ""High Society"" before giving up her film career for marriage in 1956?" A: Grace Kelly
Q: Where in the body is the scapula? A: Shoulder
Q: The River Nile is on what continent? A: Africa
Q: Eddie Murphy starred in a remake of which Jerry Lewis comedy? A: The Nutty Professor
Q: Which Irish born British admiral and hydrographer created a standard scale in 1805 by which naval officers could report wind speed? A: Sir Francis Beaufort
Q: What is the radius of a circle whose area is 154 square inches? A: 7 inches
Q: Which team won the eighth World Polo Championship in Mexico in May 2008? A: Chile
Q: What is the name given to the silent electrical discharge between the atmosphere and, for example, trees, ships' masts, steeples and flagpoles? A: St Elmo's Fire
Q: Joseph Smith is known as the founder of what movement? A: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
Q: Michael Keaton starred in which film as a spirit who makes a living from scaring people? A: Beetlejuice
Q: At the opening ceremony of every Olympic Games when the athletes parade into the stadium, what is traditionally the first nation to enter? A: Greece
Q: Which monotheistic, Abrahamic religious movement accepts Haile Selassie I, the former and final Emperor of Ethiopia, as the incarnation of God, called Jah? A: Rastafarian
Q: Muhammad Ali (who was born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.) is associated with which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Where was the first McDonalds outlet opened in 1955? A: Chicago
Q: A litre is a measure of what? A: Volume
Q: Which avant-garde art movement, pioneered by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque around 1906, revolutionized European painting and sculpture and inspired related movements in music and literature? A: Cubism
Q: At the 2008 Olympics, South Korea protested that for Norways winning goal in the semifinals, the ball had failed fully to cross the goal line prior to time expiring and requested that the game continue into overtime. What sport was this? A: Handball
Q: What is the musical term for playing each note separated from the rest? A: Staccato
Q: What federation of free cities who had developed trade with foreign countries, formed in the 14th century, had its headquarters in Lbeck? A: Hanseatic League
Q: Louis XIV of France was known as what? A: The Sun King
Q: Matt Damon played which role in a trilogy of films about an amnesiac who also suffers from PTSD who is attempting to discover his true identity amidst a clandestine conspiracy within the CIA to track him down and arrest or kill him? A: Jason Bourne
Q: Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), the world's oldest and most famous cricket club (founded in 1787), is based where? A: Lord's Cricket Ground
Q: What is the term for a period of isolation to prevent the spread of disease? A: Quarantine
Q: The Belgian Revolution, that began after a performance at the Brussels opera in 1830, led to the secession of the Southern provinces of which kingdom to establish an independent Kingdom of Belgium? A: United Kingdom of the Netherlands
Q: What was the capital city of Russia from 1712 to 1918? A: Saint Petersburg
Q: The islands Santa Ysabel, Choiseul, Guadalcanal, Malaita and San Cristbal are in which group? A: Solomon Islands
Q: "Which astronomer, born in West Yorkshire, England in 1915 and dying in 2001 in Bournemouth, England, was a science fiction writer, whose output includes the novel ""The Black Cloud"", a TV series ""A for Andromeda"" and a play ""Rockets in Ursa Major""?" A: Sir Fred Hoyle
Q: What is the name given to the planet Venus when it appears in the West after sunset? A: Evening Star
Q: How old was Kurt Cobain when he died? A: 27
Q: Who unknowingly slew his father and married his mother, and, when he discovered his true identity, blinded himself when his mother hanged herself? A: Oedipus
Q: What was the dolphin that accompanied vessels near French Pass, a channel used by ships sailing between Wellington and Nelson, New Zealand between 1888 and 1912? A: Pelorus Jack
Q: Which island group between the South China Sea and the Pacific Ocean was discovered in 1521 by Magellan, was taken by Spain, ceded to the USA in 1898 and became an independent republic in 1946? A: Philippines
Q: "What card game was derived from the 16th century Italian game called ""ronfa""?" A: Piquet
Q: What is the name for the point on the ecliptic when the sun is at its greatest distance from the equator? A: Solstice
Q: "In the 2003 film ""What A Girl Wants"", Amanda Bynes played the illegitimate daughter of a British politician played by whom?" A: Colin Firth
Q: How high should a badminton net be at the centre? A: 1.524 metres (5 ft)
Q: "According to Virgil's Latin epic poem ""The Aeneid"", who, during the Trojan War, made a wooden horse and filled it with soldiers that the Trojans took through the gates of Troy?" A: Greeks
Q: What modern sport can trace its origin back to a Scramble that took place at Camberley, Surrey England in 1924? A: Motocross
Q: What is the capital of Greece? A: Athens
Q: "Slogans such as ""The Truth Is Out There"", ""Trust No One"" and ""I Want to Believe"" that became part of pop culture in the 1990s were from which TV series?" A: The X-Files
Q: What is another name for sodium bicarbonate? A: Baking soda
Q: The Greek mathematician, mystic and scientist Pythagoras is best known for the Pythagorean theorem, which concerns what? A: Triangles
Q: "In the 1964 film ""Dr. Strangelove ... "", the doctor, working as national security consultant to the president, was a sinister character with a heavy Germanic accent and darkly Teutonic attitudes. Who had the nickname ""Dr Strangelove"" when in public office in the 1970s?" A: Henry Kissinger
Q: What is the name for a poem of 14 lines that first appeared when written by Giacomo da Lentini in 1220, for which various rhyme schemes were developed? A: Sonnet
Q: What was the name given to the group of people in the English Midlands who destroyed machinery in 1811 - 1812, believing it to be the cause of their unemployment? A: Luddites
Q: Usain Bolt is what type of athlete? A: Sprinter
Q: "What song was played at the end of the 1964 film ""Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love The Bomb""?" A: We'll Meet Again
Q: "Who developed the most widely used system of shorthand, which he proposed in ""Stenographic Soundhand"" in 1837?" A: Isaac Pitman
Q: "What medium had its first test with a recording of Richard Strauss's ""Eine Alpensinfonie"" by the Berlin Philharmonic conducted by Herbert von Karajan in 1981, and its first commercial pressing with ""The Visitors"" by ABBA a year later?" A: Compact disc
Q: """A Little Night Music"" by Stephen Sondheim, Hugh Wheeler and Harold Prince, was based on which 1955 film directed by Ingmar Bergman?" A: Smiles Of A Summer Night
Q: Who designed the white chiffon one-shoulder gown worn by Michelle Obama at the series of 10 balls celebrating Barack Obama's inauguration? A: Jason Wu
Q: Who has won the most medals in Olympic Games since the modern Olympics began in 1896? A: Michael Phelps
Q: From its discovery in 1930 until 2006, what was considered to be the Solar System's ninth planet? A: Pluto
Q: What name is given to a cocktail consisting mainly of vodka, Galliano, and orange juice? A: Harvey Wallbanger
Q: Which ballet, with music by Igor Stravinsky and choreography by Vaslav Nijinsky under impresario Serge Diaghilev, caused a riot at its 1913 premire in Paris by The Ballets Russes because the music and choreography were considered barbaric and sexual? A: The Rite of Spring
Q: In which country did the USA enter a war by sending military advisors in 1950, escalating their involvement until finally combat units played an active part between 1965 and 1975? A: Vietnam
Q: Which Italian island in the Mediterranean is to the south of Corsica? A: Sardinia
Q: Who was the Roman god of the sea? A: Neptune
Q: Che Guevara was among the revolutionaries who invaded which country with the intention of overthrowing its US-backed dictator in December 1956? A: Cuba
Q: What has been a state religion in Japan? A: Shintoism
Q: What are raced in the Indianapolis 500? A: Cars
Q: How many metatarsal bones are in each human foot? A: 5
Q: Billy Piper played the travelling companion to the lead role in which TV series that played in Great Britain in 2005? A: Dr Who
Q: The Australian city of Adelaide is on which river? A: Torrens
Q: What legendary land was between the Scilly Isles and Cornwall before it was overwhelmed by the sea? A: Lyonesse
Q: "Which American singer who starred in ""The New Mickey Mouse Club"" from 1993 to 1994 and released her debut album ""...Baby One More Time"" in 1999 was ranked by Forbes in 2009 as the 13th most powerful celebrity and the 2nd biggest-earning young musician?" A: Britney Spears
Q: "A five block area of which city was permanently closed to traffic in May 2009 in an attempt to make the city ""more liveable""?" A: New York
Q: What does a series of dots above musical notes mean? A: Staccato
Q: The legend of Robin Hood, which dates from the 14th century and includes tales of Friar Tuck, Little John and Alan Adale, is centred on which forest? A: Sherwood
Q: Who was an English naturalist who realised and presented compelling evidence that all species of life have evolved over time from common ancestors, through the process he called natural selection? A: Charles Darwin
Q: Loch Ness is part of which canal? A: Caledonian
Q: What is the most prestigious event at the Henley Royal Regatta, for a cup which has been awarded since the regatta was first staged? A: The Grand Challenge Cup for Men's Eights
Q: Where were tanks used for the first time in battle? A: Somme, 1916
Q: What term is used to describe Western European architectural style for the period from the late 10th to the 12th century which was identifiably Medieval and prefigured the Gothic, yet maintained the rounded Roman arch? A: Romanesque
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who sat on a wall and had a great fall? A: Humpty
Q: Who claimed to be a direct descendant of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, and worked to achieve the independence of Abyssinia? A: Menelek II
Q: Which country has borders with the Central African Republic, Sudan, Zambia, Angola, the Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi (with Tanzania across Lake Tanganyika)? A: Democratic Republic of the Congo
Q: The US state of Virginia was named after which queen? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Who rests in the Hotel des Invalides, Paris? A: Napoleon
Q: What is the common name for Herpes Zoster? A: Shingles
Q: The Grand Canyon is in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: Which country was the setting for the novels of Neville Shute? A: Australia
Q: What is the term for the change in direction of a wavefront at an interface between two different media so that the wavefront returns into the medium from which it originated, common examples of which include the behaviour of light, sound and water waves? A: Reflection
Q: "The publication of Harriet Beecher Stowe's book ""Uncle Tom's Cabin"" in 1852 aroused much public feeling about what issue in the USA?" A: Slavery
Q: In Roman numerals, what is signified by the letter V? A: 5
Q: "Who won an Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of cannibalistic serial killer Hannibal Lecter in ""The Silence of the Lambs"" (1991)?" A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: William Gilbert Grace was a famous player of which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Where did Jonathan Swift set his imaginary island of Lilliput? A: Indian Ocean
Q: What are the Yeoman Warders, who have guarded the Tower of London since 1485, commonly called? A: Beefeaters
Q: Braslia has been the capital of Brazil since 1960. Where was the capital before that? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: Who was the previous King of Spain before King Juan Carlos I succeeded on 22 November 1975? A: Alfonso XIII
Q: In which century was the Panama Canal opened? A: 20th
Q: "Roswell, the ""UFO crash site"", is in which US state?" A: New Mexico
Q: How many fence posts are required to surround a field that is 12 metres square, if a post must be provided every metre? A: 48
Q: Which British sculptor and artist of the 20th century, whose work was said to exemplify Modernism, was made a Dame in 1965 and died aged 72 in a fire in her studio at St Ives, Cornwall, in 1975? A: Barbara Hepworth
Q: What is the longest river on the island of New Guinea? A: Sepik
Q: Who is credited with the design of the small British car known as the Mini? A: Alec Issigonis
Q: In which British sitcom does a draughtsman give up his job to live a self-sufficient lifestyle, planting fruit and vegetables, and running chickens, pigs and a goat in the garden, to the horror of their next-door neighbours? A: The Good Life
Q: The Hong Kong Sevens, a competition for seven-a-side rugby, has been held at what venue since 1994? A: Hong Kong Stadium
Q: What was the name of eleven rulers of the 19th and 20th Egyptian dynasties? A: Rameses
Q: The chief rivers of which country are the Ebro, Jucar, Guadalquivir, Tagus, Douru and Minho? A: Spain
Q: How old was the oldest person to win an Olympic Medal? A: 72
Q: In the episode of Coronation Street that aired in Britain on 3 March 2008, who pushed Gail Platt down the stairs, leaving her hospitalised and suffering short term amnesia? A: David Platt
Q: Which country, governed by the Danish government as its colony, was made an equal part of the Danish Kingdom in 1953? A: Greenland
Q: What is the common name for peristalsis? A: Swallowing
Q: In which country is the Plateau of the Great Karroo? A: South Africa
Q: How many players from each team usually make up a rugby sevens scrum? A: 3
Q: What was the name given to wandering players in 12th and 13th century France, England and Germany who recited poems of love and wine? A: Goliards
Q: What number cannot be written in Roman numerals? A: Zero
Q: What is the name of the bill of rights entrenched in the Constitution of Canada, which forms the first part of their Constitution Act, 1982? A: Charter of Rights and Freedoms
Q: "Where is ""The White House""?" A: Washington
Q: In chess, what piece can only move diagonally? A: Bishop
Q: What is the longest river in Italy? A: Po
Q: Which country became a separate state in 1890 after having been, since 1443, part of Burgundy, Spain, Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands? A: Luxembourg
Q: In astronomy, what is the next letter in the sequence O, B, A, F, G, K A: M
Q: Who directed the films Cocoon, Willow, Parenthood, Backdraft and Apollo 13 between 1985 and 1995? A: Ron Howard
Q: Where was the venue for the Commonwealth Games in 2010? A: New Delhi
Q: "An expression that means to leave things as they are when there is no immediate problem is ""let sleeping dogs ..."" what?" A: Lie
Q: "Who married Liam Neeson in 1994 after they met on the set of the film ""Nell""?" A: Natasha Richardson
Q: The Union of South Africa was formed in 1910: which area did not join the Union until 1919? A: South West Africa
Q: Which country has borders with Brazil, Paraguay and Peru? A: Bolivia
Q: What needs to be added to the sum of the first three prime numbers to equal the fifth? A: 1
Q: What is the name of Morocco's capital, which is 60 miles north of Casablanca? A: Rabat
Q: Which country won the most World Polo Championships between the inaugural tournament in 1987 and 2001? A: Argentina
Q: What is the name for the private office in the White House of the President of the USA? A: Oval Office
Q: Which country's air forces owned the two planes that fatally crashed in April and May 2009? A: Indonesia
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear-powered submarine, launched on 21 January 1954? A: Nautilus
Q: Who began dating cyclist Lance Armstrong in 2003, and announced their engagement in September 2005 and their split in February 2006? A: Sheryl Crow
Q: "Which painter's most famous works include ""Portrait of Mrs. Graham"", ""Mary and Margaret: The Painter's Daughters"", ""William Hallett and His Wife Elizabeth, nee Stephen"", known as ""The Morning Walk"", and ""Cottage Girl with Dog and Pitcher""?" A: Thomas Gainsborough
Q: The half-length portrait of Lisa di Anton Maria di Noldo Gherardini is better known by what name? A: Mona Lisa
Q: "Which word was coined by Karel Capek in his play ""R. U. R."" in 1929?" A: Robot
Q: "Which English playwright (""The Conscious Lovers"") founded the ""Tatler"", the ""Spectator"" and the ""Guardian""?" A: Sir Richard Steele
Q: A baby's first teeth are called what? A: Milk teeth
Q: Olympic gold medallists Fanny Blankers-Koen, Inge de Bruijn, Leontien van Moorsel, Yvonne van Gennip, Ard Schenk, Jochem Uytdehaage, Pieter van den Hoogenband, Gianni Romme, Marianne Timmer, Wim Ruska, Charles Pahud de Mortanges and Adolph van der Voort van Zijp represented which country? A: Netherlands
Q: "What Latin-American word means ""foreigner""?" A: Gringo
Q: Which TV series had characters called Dougal, Zebedee, Brian, Ermintrude, Dylan, Florence and Mr Rusty? A: The Magic Roundabout
Q: In which country was there a civil war between 1861 and 1865, which was lost by the Confederate forces? A: USA
Q: What function must be applied to the numbers 10 and 5 to provide 2 as the result? A: Division
Q: What is the English chalk plain crossed by the Avon that includes the prehistoric monuments of Stonehenge and Amesbury? A: Salisbury Plain
Q: Six Korfball World Championships were held last century, the first in 1978. Which country won them the most times? A: Netherlands
Q: What is the collective name for eight elite universities in the North Eastern USA? A: Ivy League
Q: "Who had a team of Dr. Eric Foreman, Dr. Robert Chase, and Dr. Allison Cameron and replaced them with Dr. Eric Foreman, Dr. Remy ""Thirteen"" Hadley, Dr. Chris Taub and Dr. Lawrence Kutner?" A: Dr. Gregory House
Q: Who discovered, in 1895, that X Rays could be applied to medicine? A: Rontgen
Q: "What film, sub-titled ""The Story of Christy Brown"", is a 1989 drama directed by Jim Sheridan and starring Daniel Day-Lewis, Ray McAnally, Brenda Fricker, Fiona Shaw, Julie Hale, Alison Whelan, Kirsten Sheridan, Declan Croghan, Eanna MacLiam, Marie Conmee and Cyril Cusack, that tells the true story of an Irishman born with cerebral palsy?" A: My Left Foot
Q: "A phrase meaning ""there must be some truth in the rumour"" is ""where there is [what] there is fire""?" A: Smoke
Q: Where was the British ship Royal Oak sunk by German submarine U47 in October 1939? A: Scapa Flow
Q: What organisation, set up to encourage scientific research, was founded in 1648 and obtained a charter from King Charles II in 1660? A: Royal Society
Q: What waterway was opened to shipping on 15 August 1914 but not officially opened until 12 June 1920? A: Panama Canal
Q: Which 1943 film concerns the lynching of three suspected murderers (played by Dana Andrews, Anthony Quinn and Francis Ford) by a mob (played by Frank Conroy, Marc Lawrence and Jane Darwell, among others)? A: The Ox-bow Incident
Q: Which country has the same name as a state of the USA? A: Georgia
Q: The Honda Formula One team was taken over by which team for the 2009 season? A: Brawn
Q: Which President of the USA was involved in a scandal concerning Monica Lewinsky? A: Bill Clinton
Q: What are the joints in the fingers called? A: Knuckles
Q: What device, with a scale of 60 degrees was used in marine navigation for measuring the altitude of a celestial object above the horizon? A: Sextant
Q: Which primary colour is mixed with white to produce pink? A: Red
Q: For administrative purposes, Germany consists of sixteen areas which they call what? A: States
Q: Sasha and Malia are the daughters of which political figure? A: Barack Obama
Q: Which former American football star was acquitted of killing his ex-wife and was later convicted of armed robbery and kidnapping? A: O J Simpson
Q: What disaster occurred in Ireland in 1845? A: Potato famine
Q: What is the term for the conversion of a solid directly into a vapour by applying heat, and vice versa? A: Sublimation
Q: Salvador Dali, Max Ernst and Paul Klee are classified in what school of painting? A: Surrealist
Q: In the finals of the 3000 metre track event 1984 Summer Olympics, who was accused of colliding with Mary Decker, who was unable to complete the race? A: Zola Budd
Q: Who directed himself in his last western film in 1992, which also starred Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman, and Richard Harris? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: On what date on the Christian calendar is the day of the Annunciation or Lady Day? A: 25 March
Q: Whose top hat and other belongings fetched nearly half a million euros at auction in May 2009? A: Marcel Marceau
Q: Which warship captured numerous merchant ships and defeated five British warships (HMS Guerriere, HMS Java, HMS Pictou, HMS Cyane and HMS Levant) in the War of 1812 against Great Britain? A: USS Constitution
Q: Which canal allows ships to travel from the Mediterranean Sea to the Indian Ocean? A: Suez
Q: "Who was a British dog trainer, author and television personality who introduced the catch-phrases ""walkies"" and ""sit!"" in her 1980 television series?" A: Barbara Woodhouse
Q: The modern version of what code-breaking board game for two players, that resembles an old pencil and paper game called Bulls and Cows, was invented in 1970 by Mordecai Meirowitz, an Israeli postmaster and telecommunications expert? A: Mastermind
Q: "The film ""Bright Star"", directed by Jane Campion, released in May 2009 and starring Ben Whishaw and Abbie Cornish, is a period drama about Fanny Brawne's romance with whom?" A: Keats
Q: According to Greek mythology, who accompanied Jason on his journey to find the Golden Fleece? A: Argonauts
Q: "Who was the female co-star with Elvis Presley in the film ""Viva Las Vegas""?" A: Ann Margret
Q: Which country won the Men's World Championship in softball the most times between 1996 and 2004? A: New Zealand
Q: A tabard is a type of what? A: Short coat
Q: What is the term for the measure of the brightness of a star as it appears on earth? A: Apparent magnitude
Q: The city of Venice is on which sea? A: Adriatic
Q: Who fronted the BBC 2 specials Gambling in Las Vegas, The Most Hated Family in America, Under The Knife, Behind Bars, African Hunting Holiday, Law and Disorder in Philadelphia and A Place for Paedophiles? A: Louis Theroux
Q: What word is given to the association of dissimilar organisms for mutual benefit? A: Symbiosis
Q: In Greek legend, who was the son of Daedalus who fell to his death? A: Icarus
Q: The Mississippi River is on what continent? A: North America
Q: What apple-like fruit containing pulp covered seeds with a golden-red rind is formed from (usually scarlet) flowers? A: Pomegranate
Q: Who fell out of favour with Queen Elizabeth I over his intrigue with Elizabeth Throgmorton, was imprisoned and eventually beheaded? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: "Which newspaper, originally called ""The Daily Universal Register"" was founded by John Walter in 1785?" A: The Times
Q: Who invented the spa bath? A: Candido Jacuzzi
Q: Fort Worth is closest to which other Texas city? A: Dallas
Q: "Whose film career from 1932 to 1966 included starring roles in films such as ""To Catch A Thief"", ""Arsenic and Old Lace"" and ""North By North West""?" A: Cary Grant
Q: What is the next in the series 4, 16, 64, 256 A: 1024
Q: "What sort of animal was ""Bambi"", the main role in a Walt Disney cartoon released in 1942?" A: Deer
Q: From 1922 to 1937, what name was given to the area of Ireland that was more independent than the rest of the island ? A: The Irish Free State
Q: What is an Italianate resort village on the coast of Snowdonia in Wales, near Penrhyndeudraeth, two miles southeast of Porthmadog? A: Portmeirion
Q: "What Irish dramatist, whose first produced play was ""Widowers' Houses"" in 1892, won a Nobel Prize for Literature in 1926?" A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: What event applies to Charles II of England in 1660 and the Bourbons in 1814 and 1815? A: Restoration
Q: What name is given to poetry written in lines of 12 syllables in 6 metrical feet? A: Alexandrine
Q: What type of creature is a taipan? A: Snake
Q: The leaf of what tree appears on the Canadian national flag? A: Maple
Q: Who commissioned film-maker Leni Riefenstahl to make Olympia, the first documentary film on the Olympic Games at the 1936 Berlin Games? A: International Olympic Committee
Q: What is the name of a process of dyeing fabric to produce marbled colour effects using hot wax? A: Batik
Q: "Which entertainer uses various names, including ""Puff Daddy"", ""P. Diddy"" and ""Diddy""?" A: Sean Combs
Q: Under the Treaty of Utrecht (1713), which followed the War Of The Spanish Succession, Spain ceded Minorca and which other area to Britain? A: Gibraltar
Q: "Which band, which at the time comprised Jim Kerr, Charlie Burchill, Michael MacNeil, Mel Gaynor and John Giblin, had hit records with ""Alive & Kicking"", ""Sanctify Yourself"", ""Ghostdancing"" and ""All the Things She Said""?" A: Simple Minds
Q: Which nation established the first settlement in what is now South Africa at Table Bay in 1652? A: Holland
Q: With which country do you associate the didgeridoo? A: Australia
Q: What palace / monastery covering 10 acres (4.05 hectares), in the shape of a grid iron as a monument to St Lawrence, was built 20 miles (32 kilometres) south of Madrid by Philip II? A: El Escorial
Q: What is the official process whereby one nation or state requests and obtains from another nation or state the surrender of a suspected or convicted criminal? A: Extradition
Q: What was the first ballet written by Tchaikovsky? A: Swan Lake
Q: What machine was invented by Professor Auguste Picard for scientific exploration? A: Bathyscaphe
Q: The two main branches of the River Nile are known as what? A: White and Blue
Q: American Iva Ikuko Toguri D'Aquino, who was convicted for treason in 1949 and pardoned by US President Gerald Ford in 1977, was popularly known as whom? A: Tokyo Rose
Q: Which Irish philanthropist founded houses for destitute children in Stepney in 1870? A: Thomas Barnardo
Q: The idea of an Olympic Flame burning throughout the Games was reintroduced during which Games, when an employee of the local Electric Utility lit the flame in the Marathon Tower of the Olympic Stadium? A: Amsterdam, 1928
Q: The city previously known as Byzantium and Constantinople is in what modern day country? A: Turkey
Q: Anton Gregorovitch Rubinstein, the 19th century musician who founded a conservatoire of music in St Petersburg, is associated with which instrument? A: Piano
Q: What transport artery runs for 13 miles between Brig, Switzerland and Domodossola, Italy? A: Simplon Tunnel
Q: Who was arrested and imprisoned in the Tower of London for aiding the escape of Bonnie Prince Charlie after the Battle of Culloden to Portree, Skye and thence to Glam on the island of Raasay? A: Flora MacDonald
Q: With the history of which country is Davy Crockett associated? A: USA
Q: What is another name for tungsten? A: Wolfram
Q: "Which group was the subject of the Microsoft Xbox 360 games Rock Band that premired in June 2009 which is intended to be ""a revolutionary tour"" of their music and career?" A: The Beatles
Q: The White House, Washington D.C., USA, has how many storeys above ground? A: 4
Q: Renee Zellweger played which author in a 2007 film? A: Beatrix Potter
Q: The Sunda Trench is the deepest part of which ocean? A: Indian Ocean
Q: What is the biological term for T H Huxley's theory that all living cells and organisms orginate from pre-existing living matter, not as the result of spontaneous generation? A: Biogenesis
Q: Who was the Cornish inventor who is famous for building a high pressure non-condensing steam engine for general industrial use in 1880, and in 1801 for building a steam car that carried passengers? A: Richard Trevithick
Q: Tetanus is known by what other name? A: Lockjaw
Q: What is the name for the fitting together of the masticating surfaces of the upper and lower teeth in biting? A: Occlusion
Q: What is the world's largest desert? A: Sahara
Q: Which team won the Hockey World Cup the most times in the first 30 years of competition, which has been held every 2 to 3 years since 1971? A: Pakistan
Q: "Who performed ""Sex Crimes"", the theme song from the film ""1984""?" A: Eurythmics
Q: Which of the Gibb brothers is the oldest? A: Barry
Q: Who is the wife of golfer Greg Norman? A: Tennis star Chris Evert
Q: The Roman Empire was at its widest extent, including Dacia, Mesopotamia, Armenia and Assyria, under which Emperor? A: Trajan
Q: According to the Bible, which Moabitess married Boaz in Jerusalem and had two sons, Jesse and David? A: Ruth
Q: What singing game show that premiered on Fox in July 2007 and was confirmed as cancelled in August 2009 where contestants competed to win one million dollars by correctly recalling song lyrics from a variety of genres was hosted by Wayne Brady? A: Don't Forget the Lyrics!
Q: Which concert pianist became the first President of the Polish Republic in 1919? A: Ignaz Jan Paderewski
Q: Where does linseed oil come from? A: Flax
Q: "What explorer sailed on the ship ""Terra Nova""?" A: Robert Falcon Scott
Q: The board for which game has 121 indentations arranged to form a six-pointed star, with ten indentations in each triangular star-point of the hexagram, and 61 within its hexagon? A: Chinese Checkers
Q: Who did Tom Cruise propose to at the Eiffel Tower in 2005? A: Katie Holmes
Q: What part of the body is affected by gingivitis? A: Gums
Q: "Which area was declared a ""free territory"" in 1947 and administered by the US, UK and Yugoslavia until 1954 when it was partitioned between Italy and Yugoslavia?" A: Trieste
Q: What structure was designed by John A Roebling, who supervised construction until his death when the project was taken over by his son, Washington? A: Brooklyn Bridge, New York
Q: What sport is played with mallets with handles 52 in long, on a field measuring 300 x 160 yards? A: Polo
Q: Which fictional characters appear in plays by Shakespeare, Tom Stoppard and W S Gilbert? A: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Q: Which game uses six sets of coloured pieces, ten of each colour, whereby a piece moves either to an adjacent spot or, by a jump over another piece? A: Chinese Checkers
Q: "What character was the child of the character played by Tom Hanks in the film ""Sleepless in Seattle""?" A: Jonah
Q: The Exxon Valdez oil spill, considered one of the most devastating human-caused environmental disasters ever to occur at sea, happened on 24 March 1989 in the Prince William Sound, in which state of the USA? A: Alaska
Q: Most of the Ozark Plateau is in which two US states? A: Missouri and Arkansas
Q: What is the title of the BBC sitcom starring Mathew Horne and Joanna Page, written by and co-starring Ruth Jones and James Corden? A: Gavin & Stacey
Q: Four year old Exodus, who died due to an accident with a treadmill in May 2009, was the daughter of whom? A: Mike Tyson
Q: What name is applied to the general stiffening of the muscles caused by a coagulation of the muscle-plasma? A: Rigor mortis
Q: A century covers how many years? A: 100
Q: Which is the only regatta cancelled because it rained and there was water in the river, as happened in 1993 when it was cancelled due to flooding? A: The Henley-on-Todd Regatta
Q: Which one of the signs of the zodiac is inanimate? A: Libra
Q: What modern-day country was ruled between 1902 and 1964 by Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud and his son, Emir Saud? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: George Harrison was deported from which city where the early Beatles had long term engagements, because of his youth? A: Hamburg
Q: "Who began as a Broadway actor, made his Hollywood debut in 1935, and had lead roles in ""The Grapes of Wrath"", ""The Ox-Bow Incident"", ""Mister Roberts"" and ""12 Angry Men""?" A: Henry Fonda
Q: "The musical ""Oliver!"" is associated with which geographical area?" A: London
Q: The origins of which country can be traced to the forming of a defensive league by Uri, Schwyz and Lower Unterwalden in 1521? A: Switzerland
Q: Which English steeplechase is held annually at Aintree near Liverpool? A: Grand National
Q: When he took office on 9 May 2009, the President of which country was pictured with three women who were said to be his wives: Sizakele Khumalo, Nompumelelo and Thobeka Mabhija? A: South Africa
Q: What economic theory was originated by Major C H Douglas? A: Social Credit
Q: What is an alternative name for a hydrolaccolith, a mound of earth-covered ice found in the Arctic and subarctic that can reach up to 70 metres (230 ft) in height and up to 600 m (2,000 ft) in diameter? A: Pingo
Q: What instrument consisting basically of a telescope that can be rotated vertically and horizontally on graduated scales was designed for use in land surveying for measuring by triangulation ? A: Theodolite
Q: "Who is quoted as saying ""... advertising ... attracts all the bright, creative and ambitious young people, leaving us mainly with the slow and self-obsessed to become our artists. ... Never in the field of human history has so much been used by so many to say so little""?" A: """Banksy"""
Q: Which war between Austria, France and Russia versus England and Prussia ended with the ceding of Silesia to Prussia by Austria and the ceding of French territory in Canada to Britain? A: Seven Years War
Q: What is the next name in this series: Ross Kemp, Ben Stiller, Kate Winslet, Samuel L. Jackson, Les Dennis ? A: Patrick Stewart
Q: The pineapple is native to which part of the world? A: South America
Q: Which Chief of Staff of the US Army retired in 1937 but returned to lead the defence of the Philippines in WWII, and to direct both the occupation of Japan and the allied effort early in the Korean War? A: Douglas MacArthur
Q: What genus of grass is also known as kaffir corn, dhurra, Guinea corn and Indian millet? A: Sorghum
Q: "According to the traditions of the Roman Catholic Church, how many ""stations"" are there in ""The Stations of the Cross""?" A: 14
Q: "What was the name of the character played by Bill Cosby in ""The Bill Cosby Show""?" A: Cliff Huxtable
Q: On 28 June 1914, Gavrilo Princip, a Bosnian-Serb student and member of Young Bosnia, assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria in Sarajevo, Bosnia, which led to the start of which war? A: World War I
Q: What is the name of the French national flag adopted during during the French Revolution, consisting of three equal vertical bands of red, white and blue? A: Tricolor
Q: With a time of 3:49.4, breaking the existing world record by over 1.5 seconds, who was the first to run the mile in under 3:50 minutes ? A: John Walker
Q: Who became President of the USA on the death of Franklin D Roosevelt and remained in office until 1953? A: Harry S Truman
Q: What is the name for a device that measures the rate of rotation of a revolving shaft? A: Tachometer
Q: What is the name for the massacre of the French ruling class while in church by local people at Palermo in 1282 that started a revolution that spread to other parts of the country? A: Sicilian Vespers
Q: Traditionally, what can women do on 29 February that they cannot do on any other date? A: Propose marriage
Q: George Fox is associated with the founding of which religion? A: The Religious Society of Friends (Quakers)
Q: Which civilisation left clearly identifiable traces dating from 2600 BCE, with cities on what are now the Yucatan Peninsula, Guatemala, Honduras and Southern Mexico and still survives in language today? A: Maya
Q: What is the British group of islands in the South Atlantic that consists of two main islands, together with 776 smaller ones? A: Falkland Islands
Q: On the table for which gambling game would you see the words Passe, Pair, Manque, Impair and pictures of black and red diamonds? A: Roulette
Q: What 1956 film, that satirises the U.S. occupation of Japan following World War II, starred Glenn Ford & Marlon Brando? A: The Teahouse of the August Moon
Q: Barbi Benton was famous as whose girlfriend from 1969 to 1976 ? A: Hugh Hefner
Q: From the 15th century onward, which country took control of Ceuta (North Africa), Madeira, the Azores, Goa (India), Brazil, Ormuz (in the Persian Strait), Malacca (now part of Malaysia) and Macau (China)? A: Portugal
Q: Which highly contagious disease, characterised by the sudden onset of rigor, headache, delirium and fever, followed by a rash, is caused by a virus conveyed by lice? A: Typhus
Q: What creatures in Scandinavian folklore have evil powers and malevolent dispositions? A: Trolls
Q: In 1935, which city was chosen to replace Livingstone as the capital of the British colony of Northern Rhodesia, and is now the capital of Zambia? A: Lusaka
Q: What is the lining membrane of the cavity of the eyeball connected to the optic nerve which forms the receptor surface for light rays? A: Retina
Q: Which 2002 play by Neil LaBute that takes place around 11 September 2001 concerns an extra-marital affair between a man (Sam) and his boss (Abby) who worked in the World Trade Centre? A: The Mercy Seat
Q: The building of historical significance known as the Bastille is in which city? A: Paris
Q: Ed Moses (United States) and Martina Moravcov (Slovakia) won World Cups for which sport in 2001/2002 and 2003/2004? A: Swimming
Q: What is the name of the branch of the Pacific Ocean between China and Korea? A: Yellow Sea
Q: An aircraft flying at 40,000 feet can be heard to break the sound barrier when it achieves a speed of how many miles per hour? A: 600
Q: What was the acronym for the organisation that was set up in 1950 to co-ordinate the armed forces of NATO? A: SHAPE
Q: "Who wrote ""Raindrops Are Fallin' On My Head"", the theme from the film ""Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid""?" A: Burt Bacharach
Q: "What does the Japanese word ""Kamikaze"" mean?" A: Divine wind
Q: What is the capital of the state of California? A: Sacramento
Q: "Who had a hit with the song ""The Rainbow Connection""?" A: Kermit the Frog
Q: In the English nursery rhyme, who fell down and broke his crown? A: Jack
Q: What object, containing 14 lines of hieroglyphs, 32 of demotic and 54 of Greek, was a key to deciphering writing from ancient Egypt? A: Rosetta Stone
Q: Corsica is surrounded by which sea? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: What chain of islands stretches from the Netherlands to Denmark? A: Frisian Islands
Q: Which American abolitionist was one of a group who seized the Arsenal at Harper's Ferry in October 1859, was wounded, captured and, in December, hanged at Charleston? A: John Brown
Q: Who announced his engagement to New Zealand cellist Jiaxin Cheng, to be his fourth wife, in June 2009? A: Julian Lloyd Webber
Q: The yellow, brown and red pigments known as ochres are oxides of which metal? A: Iron
Q: Which Greek philosopher was accused by the Sophists of corrupting the youth of Athens and was condemned to death by drinking hemlock? A: Socrates
Q: Who held the record for the number of Grand Slam tennis tournaments before it was beaten by Roger Federer at Wimbledon in 2009? A: Pete Sampras
Q: What name was given to the loyal refugees that settled in Ontario after the American War of Independence? A: United Empire Loyalists
Q: "The song ""My Kind Of Town"", written by Sammy Cahn and Jimmy Van Heusen in 1964, was about which city?" A: Chicago
Q: What gambling game involves dealing 2 cards each to the player and the dealer, with the object of getting 9 or more points, counting their face value (except 10s and court cards, which count nothing)? A: Baccarat
Q: What is a marriage called where one of the parties does not enjoy the privileges of rank of the other, nor inherit the possessions of the partner? A: Morganatic marriage
Q: Which white metal that burns in air forms more of the earth's crust than carbon, sulphur, copper or lead? A: Titanium
Q: "Which 20th century playwright wrote ""Mourning Becomes Electra"" and ""Long Day's Journey Into Night""," A: Eugene O'Neill
Q: What is the name for the individual leaves of the calyx or outer whorl of a flower? A: Sepal
Q: By what name was William Frederick Cody better known? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: "Sacha Baron Cohen created which character which first appeared on ""The Eleven O'Clock Show"" on Channel 4 in Great Britain on 8 September 1998?" A: Ali G
Q: The Royal Yacht Squadron of Cowes, based on the Isle of Wight, started a competition in 1851 now known by what name? A: America's Cup
Q: "The 2003 film ""What A Girl Wants"", with Amanda Bynes as the illegitimate daughter of a British politician played by Colin Firth, was a remake of which 1958 film starring Rex Harrison and Sandra Dee?" A: The Reluctant Debutante
Q: Who is a mythological lumberjack who appears in tall tales of American folklore, usually believed to be a giant as well as a lumberjack of unusual skill, who was first documented in the work of American journalist James MacGillivray? A: Paul Bunyan
Q: Peter Snell, who set 5 individual world running records, was part of a team that set a new four by 1 mile relay record and won 2 Olympic golds for 800 metres (1960 Rome & 1964 Tokyo) and a gold for 1500 metres (1964 Tokyo), represented which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Which movement was founded by Robert Stephenson Smyth Baden-Powell? A: Boy scouts
Q: Which major contemporary art exhibition, held every two years, began in 1895 mainly for decorative arts, showed increasing interest in innovation in modern art from 1907, and added Festivals of Music in 1930, International Film in 1932, Theatre in 1934, and Contemporary Dance in 1999? A: The Venice Biennale
Q: Which Greek philosopher and mathematician, born on Samos around 582BC, established a school at Crotana? A: Pythagoras
Q: What estate, presented to the British nation in 1917, is the official residence of the Prime Minister? A: Chequers
Q: H2SO4 is the chemical symbol for what? A: Sulphuric Acid
Q: Who, though he died at 35, wrote over 600 works including 23 string quartets, 5 string quintets, 21 piano concertos and 19 operas? A: Mozart
Q: Where are the Crown Jewels for Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain stored? A: Tower of London
Q: Where was the World Netball Series held in October 2009? A: Manchester, England
Q: The first case of AIDS was discovered in 1981 in which city? A: Los Angeles
Q: What is the capital of Serbia? A: Belgrade
Q: Which pair of films directed by Quentin Tarantino were originally conceived as one film? A: Kill Bill
Q: "Who provided the voice of ""Charlie"" for Charlie's Angels in the original TV series and the films made in 2000 and 2003?" A: John Forsythe
Q: Someone who tells lies is what sort of person? A: Mendacious
Q: What was the last position that Lyndon B Johnson held when he became President of the USA? A: Vice President
Q: What trophy, designed by the Italian designer Silvio Gazzaniga, is 36 cm (14.2 in) high, made of solid 18 carat (75%) gold and weighs 6.175 kg (13.6 lb), with a base containing two layers of semi-precious malachite? A: FIFA World Cup Trophy
Q: What is the name for what is basically an induction coil whereby the voltage of an alternating current can be increased or decreased without changing the frequency? A: Transformer
Q: What is the traditional name for a Spanish white wine made near Cadiz, popular varieties of which are Manzanilla, Amontillado, Vino Fino, Olorosa and Montilla? A: Sherry
Q: Who discovered Uranus and one of its moons, Titania, between 1781 and 1787? A: Herschel
Q: Which country has Nukualofa, on the island of Tonjatabu, as its capital? A: Tonga
Q: In two films made in 2000 and 2003, what was the collective name of Cameron Diaz, Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu? A: Charlie's Angels
Q: What is the common name for Chorea, a disease characterised by irregular involuntary movements, commonly found in children? A: St Vitus's Dance
Q: Which single company, based in Johannesburg, South Africa and London, England, controls a significant proportion of the trade in diamonds? A: De Beers
Q: Which river, 210 miles long, whose principal tributaries are the Wye, Avon and Teme, empties into the Bristol channel? A: Severn
Q: What was the name of the first turbo prop airliner, built in 1950? A: Vickers Viscount
Q: Donald Campbell, the car and motorboat racer who broke eight world speed records in the 1950s and 60s, was born in which country? A: England
Q: Atlantic City is in which US state? A: New Jersey
Q: What is the conifer native to the west coast of North America that grows to over 300 feet high? A: Sequoia
Q: What is the name of the approach to music education that was devised by mile Jaques-Dalcroze in 1865 and is still being used? A: Eurhythmics
Q: By what name is Iosif Vissarionovich Izhugashvili better known? A: Joseph Stalin
Q: What is the average of 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 25? A: 8
Q: "Rimsky-Korsakov named a piece of music ""The Flight of the ..."" what?" A: Bumblebee
Q: What artificial stretch of water in Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens London was made by order of Queen Caroline in 1730? A: The Serpentine
Q: What nationality is tennis player Roger Federer? A: Swiss
Q: "Which Belgian novelist wrote the ""Maigret"" stories between 1930 and 1935?" A: Georges Simenon
Q: Who was the last President of the Fourth Republic of France, and the first President of the Fifth Republic? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: "What event brings a group of old friends together in the 1983 film ""The Big Chill""?" A: Funeral
Q: Which volcano buried the Italian city of Pompeii? A: Vesuvius
Q: Since women's water polo was introduced for the 2000 Olympics, which country has won more gold medals than the next two highest countries combined? A: Hungary
Q: The Serbian Empire came under Turkish domination after which battle in 1389? A: Battle of Kossovo
Q: With which country do you associate the sitar? A: India
Q: The Russo Japanese War of 1904-1905 ended when the Russian Fleet under Rozhdestvensky was defeated at the Battle of Tsushima by a fleet led by whom? A: Admiral Togo Heihachir
Q: The clove hitch, the reef and the granny are types of what? A: Knot
Q: Which Norse god is a giant who personifies destructive fire? A: Loki
Q: Which musical is set in Gary, Indiana? A: The Music Man
Q: Who has been called His Purple Majesty, His Royal Badness, TAFKAP, The Artist, Symbol, Love Symbol and The Purple One? A: Prince
Q: "What ""Commonwealth"" was formed on 1 January 1901, with Lord Hopetoun as Governor-General and Edmund Barton as Prime Minister?" A: Australia
Q: Which play by Alan Ayckbourn calls for a set with three double beds on stage simultaneously? A: Bedroom Farce
Q: The Yucatan Channel is between which two countries? A: Mexico and Cuba
Q: "Who was the great great great grand uncle of the singer/composer known as ""Moby""?" A: Herman Melville
Q: Which political party won victories in the Canadian governments of Alberta in 1935 and British Columbia in 1952? A: Social Credit Party
Q: "Who, the highest paid of any performer in music hall in the early 20th century and knighted in 1919, wrote ""I Love A Lassie"", ""Stop Yer Ticklin' Jock"" and ""Roamin' in the Gloamin'""?" A: Harry Lauder
Q: What phrase appeared on screen at the end of Warner Brothers cartoons? A: That's All, Folks
Q: Where is the highest point in the British Isles? A: Ben Nevis
Q: For what were medals competed for at Olympic Games from 1912 until discontinued after the competition in 1948? A: Art competitions
Q: Where was the decisive battle on 24 June 1314 where Robert Bruce defeated Edward II's army and secured the independence of Scotland at that time? A: Bannockburn
Q: What name was given to the original owner of the skull found in Sussex in 1911 that was believed at the time to be from one of the oldest human race in Europe? A: Piltdown Man
Q: By which name was boxer Walter Smith better known? A: Sugar Ray Robinson
Q: Which 17th century French philosopher, mathematician, scientist, and writer showed, by using geometric construction and the law of refraction, that the angular radius of a rainbow is 42 degrees? A: Ren Descartes
Q: In which book of the Christian Bible is the story of Lazarus being raised from the dead? A: John
Q: "In June 2009, who was found dead in his room at the Swissotel Nai Lert Park Hotel in Bangkok, where he had gone to begin work on his role in the film ""Stretch""?" A: David Carradine
Q: "In ""Coronation Street"", what did Tracey Barlow name her daughter, born in 2004?" A: Amy
Q: What is the name of the model village near Birmingham, owned by a trust, that was founded for the employees of Cadbury in 1895? A: Bourneville
Q: "Who won an Oscar for directing ""Slumdog Millionaire"", which also won an Oscar for Best Picture?" A: Danny Boyle
Q: What sweet syrup is produced when sugar is refined and, when fermented, produces rum? A: Molasses
Q: In which country was there a civil war which lasted several decades following independence in November 1975, when three main guerrilla groups, the FNLA, MPLA and UNITA, fought each other? A: Angola
Q: "Who played Paris in the film ""Troy"", released in 2004?" A: Orlando Bloom
Q: To end The War of 1812, the USA and Great Britain signed which treaty on 24 December 1814? A: Treaty of Ghent
Q: According to the English nursery rhyme, what clothes was Wee Willie Winkie wearing when he ran through the town? A: Nightgown
Q: What term is applied to the fusion of Roman, Greek and Persian cultures that reached its peak after the 4th century AD during the reign of Justinian, and is seen in mosaics, frescoes, metal work, ivory carving and silk weaving? A: Byzantine
Q: Which city was hit by a magnitude 6.2 earthquake about 5 kilometers below its centre at 12:29 a.m. 23 December 1972, killing around 5,000 of the 400,000 population, injuring 20,000 and leaving over 250,000 homeless? A: Managua, Nicaragua
Q: Which city is built on both sides of the Tigris, 200 miles from the Persian Gulf? A: Baghdad
Q: What was first brought to Europe by Francisco Fernandes, and sent as a treat by Jean Nicot to Catherine de Medici? A: Tobacco
Q: Which American situation comedy created by David Crane and Marta Kauffman premiered on NBC on September 22, 1994? A: Friends
Q: In the Christian calendar, what is the name for the Sunday before Easter, the first Sunday of Holy Week? A: Palm Sunday
Q: Which perennial herb, crocus sativus, has purple flowers and orange coloured stigmas? A: Saffron
Q: "Pol Pot became the de facto leader of which country in mid-1975, forcing city dwellers to relocate to the countryside to work in collective farms and forced labor projects, toward a goal of ""restarting civilization"" in ""Year Zero"", which resulted in the deaths of an estimated 1.7 to 2.5 million people, approximately 21% of the population?" A: Cambodia
Q: Where will the longest railway tunnel be, when it is opened in 2017? A: Swiss Alps
Q: Who, in Greek legend, stole fire from the sun to give life to man? A: Prometheus
Q: With the history of which country is Ghandi associated? A: India
Q: Which capital city is situated on the mainland and 13 islands at the outlet of Lake Malar on the Baltic Sea? A: Stockholm
Q: What is the common name for a mixture of calcium silicates and aluminium, prepared by prolonged heating of limestone with clay, which slowly hardens when mixed with water? A: Cement
Q: What is the text of an opera called? A: Libretto
Q: Which river runs through the city of Paris, France? A: Seine
Q: "Whose life was the 2004 film ""Ray"" about?" A: Ray Charles
Q: With which sport is Michael Jordan, who represented the USA at the Olympic Games in 1984 & 1992, associated? A: Basketball
Q: "Songwriter Jack White (vocals, guitar and piano) and Meg White (drums and occasional vocals) make up which American rock duo who produced three Grammy Award (Best Alternative Music Album) winning albums (""Elephant"", ""Get Behind Me Satan"" & ""Icky Thump"")?" A: The White Stripes
Q: Who was the first president of the Turkish Republic after the overthrow of the Sultan in 1922? A: Mustapha Kemal Ataturk
Q: Except for a short break from 1492 to 1512, which merchant family effectively ruled Florence from the 13th century to 1737? A: Medici
Q: In the first decade of the 1900s, Henry Ford established the Ford Motor Company in which city of the USA? A: Detroit
Q: Historically, what is the name of an official having authority for fiscal and other purposes within a defined area of England, typically a borough, port or shire? A: Reeve
Q: In 2001, Count Jacques Rogge replaced Juan Antonio Samaranch as head of what body? A: International Olympic Committee (IOC)
Q: Billie Joe Armstrong, Mike Dirnt and Tr Cool are collectively known as which band? A: Green Day
Q: "What is the character ""George"" from the UK TV series ""Rainbow""?" A: Hippopotamus
Q: The members of which Christian organisation do not take the oath in a court of law, oppose military service, and believe that individuals can have a personal relationship with the divine without the need for intermediaries, such as priests, rituals or sacraments? A: Quakers
Q: Which cold, low-salinity ocean current flows north-westward along the west coast of South America from the southern tip of Chile to northern Peru and can extend 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) offshore? A: Humboldt Current
Q: What is the symbol for a 60th wedding anniversary? A: Diamond
Q: Who was the Iranian-US citizen who was jailed early in 2009 in Evin Prison, Teheran with an 8 year sentence for alleged spying? A: Roxana Saberi
Q: With the exception of the last two segments, how many legs does a centipede have on each segment? A: 2
Q: In baseball, which base is most frequently stolen by the runners? A: Second
Q: What is Neptune's main satellite? A: Triton
Q: Robbie Coltrane played a psychologist in which British TV series? A: Cracker
Q: The mnemonic Roy G. Biv is an aid to remembering what? A: The colours of the rainbow
Q: Who discovered the moons of Saturn called Mimas and Enceladus between 1781 and 1789? A: Herschel
Q: Where is the island of Tristan da Cunha? A: South Atlantic Ocean
Q: With which sport is Florence Griffith-Joyner, also known as Flo-Jo, associated? A: Sprinting
Q: In what year was the Irish parliament abolished and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland come into being? A: 1800
Q: Which model was engaged to Bryan Ferry of Roxy Music before she married Mick Jagger? A: Jerry Hall
Q: What is the name given to a bone fracture when the bone bends and splinters rather than breaks in two? A: Greenstick
Q: In the 18th century, Capability Brown popularised the naturalistic style of what? A: Landscape gardening
Q: Which Russian revolutionary became Foreign Commissar, lost the battle for leadership to Stalin, was expelled from the Communist Party and lived in exile thereafter? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: Before the 2008 Olympics, teams from which country caused a scandal by posing for a pre-Olympic newspaper advertisement pulling back the skin on either side of their eyes, to mimic the typical Asian? A: Spain
Q: What is the name of a slender highly tempered, sharp-pointed, edgeless weapon about 3 feet long? A: Rapier
Q: Who was an American gangster, the leader of a crime syndicate dedicated to smuggling and bootlegging of liquor and other illegal activities during the Prohibition Era, whose criminal career ended in 1931 when he was convicted for income-tax evasion? A: Al Capone
Q: What name is given to the product of mass and velocity? A: Momentum
Q: Who became King of England after defeating Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field? A: Henry VII
Q: "Which 20th century French writer and philosopher wrote the plays ""Huis Clos"", ""Les Mouches"" and ""Les Mains Sales"" and the novels ""La Nause"" and ""Chemins de la Libert""?" A: Jean Paul Sartre
Q: What is the deepest lake in the world, and the largest freshwater lake in the world by volume? A: Lake Baikal
Q: Where is the classic English horse race, the One Thousand Guineas for 3 year old fillies, run? A: Newmarket
Q: How many players from each team usually make up a rugby union scrum? A: 8
Q: What architectural term was applied by the Romans to any public building built in a rectangle twice as long as it was broad with an internal 2 storied colonnade? A: Basilica
Q: What is the name for the use of X Rays in medicine? A: Radiology
Q: "Which English duo had hits between 1984 and 1987 that included West End Girls"", ""Opportunities (Let's Make Lots of Money)"", ""Love Comes Quickly"", ""Suburbia"", ""It's a Sin"", ""What Have I Done to Deserve This?"", ""Rent"" and ""Always on My Mind""?" A: Pet Shop Boys
Q: Lake Winnipeg is in which Canadian province? A: Manitoba
Q: Which father and son, 17th and 18th century composers, between them lived in Rome, Naples, Florence and Madrid and composed over 120 operas, 600 chamber cantatas, and 500 harpsichord sonatas? A: Scarlatti
Q: In 1695, John Trevor was forced to stand down as Speaker of the British House of Commons. Who was the next Speaker to be ousted? A: Michael Martin
Q: The convention of moving the Olympic flame via a relay system from Olympia to the Olympic venue began with which Olympic Games? A: Berlin, 1936
Q: What is the term for the greenish oxide formed on copper? A: Verdigris
Q: What is a device that allows electric current to pass through it in one direction only, used for converting AC to DC? A: Rectifier
Q: For administrative purposes, Turkey is divided into 81 provinces, formerly termed vilayet, which are now called what? A: Iller
Q: One of Hannibal's most famous achievements was at the outbreak of the Second Punic War, when he marched an army, which included war elephants, from Iberia over the Pyrenees and the Alps into northern Italy with the intention of attacking Rome. What city was he from? A: Carthage
Q: Who won a (then) record seven gold medals at the 1972 Olympic Games at Munich? A: Mark Spitz
Q: Who, at the age of 50, had become the world's richest man through the activities of the Standard Oil Company? A: John Davison Rockefeller
Q: Who is George Dowd better known as? A: Boy George
Q: Thailand is on what continent? A: Asia
Q: According to legend, what did Alexander the Great cut with his sword after an oracle said that the person who released it would be master of Asia? A: Gordian knot
Q: "Who constructed railway lines between Stockton and Darlington (in 1821) and Manchester and Liverpool (in 1829), and designed and built railway engines, including ""The Rocket""." A: George Stephenson
Q: Suspension, hump and cantilever are all types of what? A: Bridges
Q: Emperor Quetzalcoatl ruled which ancient people in Mexico in the 10th century CE? A: Toltecs
Q: "Whose hit records include ""I Feel Love"", Love to Love You Baby"", ""Starting Over Again"" and ""On the Radio""?" A: Donna Summer
Q: "Chris Stein, Debbie Harry, Clem Burke, Jimmy Destri and Gary Valentine, originally billed as ""Angel and the Snake"", achieved fame under what name?" A: Blondie
Q: What spirit is traditionally made from maize grain, flavoured with juniper berries? A: Gin
Q: "The Battle of the River Plate was between the ""Ajax"", the ""Achilles"", the ""Exeter"" and which other ship?" A: Admiral Graf Spee
Q: "The painting medium ""tempera"" has what as a base?" A: Egg yolk
Q: Who was alleged to have choked pop star Rhianna until she was unconscious in a rented Lambhorgini shortly before the 2009 Grammy Awards? A: Chris Brown
Q: In England, which fish, when caught in a river, traditionally belongs to the Sovereign? A: Sturgeon
Q: Anton Geesink represented which country in Judo between 1951 and 1967, winning 21 European titles, was World Champion in 1961 in the open class, and won gold in the open weight division at the 1964 Summer Olympics? A: Netherlands
Q: "What is the name for a small single-headed drum, in the rim of which are fitted pairs of small circular metal plates, called ""jingles""?" A: Tambourine
Q: "Who became the youngest actor to have 6 Oscar nominations with her Best Actress nomination for ""The Reader"" (which was her first win!)?" A: Kate Winslett
Q: What is the capital city of Turkey? A: Ankara
Q: "Who asked the question ""Are We Human or Are We Dancers?""?" A: The Killers
Q: What was the first nation to recognise the USA as an independent nation in 1777? A: Morocco
Q: What city, heavily bombed in the Spanish Civil War, was featured in a painting by Picasso? A: Guernica
Q: What is the highest point in Wales? A: Snowdon
Q: "If someone is referred to as ""canine"", what animal are they being compared to?" A: Dog
Q: Wilberforce, Clarkson, Zachary, Macauley and Brougham were instrumental in ending what practice in the British Empire from 1807? A: The slave trade
Q: "Who wrote ""The Prince and the Pauper"" and ""A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: In 1958 the first World Championship in biathlon was held in which country? A: Austria
Q: Rowan Atkinson created which character that first appeared on British TV in 1990? A: Mr Bean
Q: Which country's national zoo quarantined its only pig for two months in case it spread swine flu? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which team won the Hockey World Cup the most times between 2000 and 2010? A: Germany
Q: Kaiser Wilhelm II was the last Emperor of which country, ruling from 15 June 1888 to 9 November 1918? A: Germany
Q: What is a textile fabric, usually of linen or cotton with simple geometric or conventional pattern uniformly repeated? A: Diaper
Q: Whose career, from 1922 to 1946, included World Billiards Champion 4 times and World Snooker Champion 20 times? A: Joe Davis
Q: "What term was popularized in the books ""The Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Typographic Man"" (1962) and ""Understanding Media"" (1964) by Marshall McLuhan to describe how the instantaneous movement of information from every quarter to every point at the same time has heightened human awareness of responsibility?" A: Global village
Q: What group was Roger Bannister representing when he broke the 4 minute mile at 3 minutes 59.4 seconds on 6 May 1954? A: Amateur Athletic Association
Q: A tongue and groove joint is used when working with what material? A: Wood
Q: What is the name for the dome or arched roof at the top of a building that is a distinctive part of Byzantine architecture and characteristic of mosques? A: Cupola
Q: "Which Russian composed ""God Bless America""?" A: Irving Berlin
Q: "In Othello, of whom does Iago say ""Forsooth, a great arithmetician""?" A: Cassio
Q: Which team broke Germanys decade-long stranglehold on the Rowing World Cup in 2007? A: Great Britain
Q: "The ""seven Champions of Christendom"" were St George, St Andrew, St David, St Patrick, St Denys, St James and which other?" A: St Anthony
Q: How many teams have ever entered the Olympic La Crosse competitions? A: 5
Q: What name is given to the eastern part of a Christian church, sometimes known as the choir, which is usually separated from the nave by a screen or railing? A: Chancel
Q: "In Shakespeare's ""Hamlet"", who was Ophelia's father?" A: Polonius
Q: What wine is named after a city in the south of Iraq? A: Shiraz
Q: What ancient people, whose major cities were Tyre and Sidon, founded Carthage? A: Phoenicians
Q: Who, with husband Chris Martin, called their child Moses when he was born in 2006? A: Gwyneth Paltrow
Q: "What is the term for a section of a building that runs at right angles to the main body, giving the shape of a ""T"" or a cross?" A: Transept
Q: "Which series of films were numbered 11, 12 & 13, without any ""episodes"" numbered 10 or below?" A: Oceans
Q: "Whose film career began in 1993 with ""The Piano"" and whose roles have included Jane Eyre, Queen Isabella II of Spain, a teenage mutant, and a human in a vampire TV series?" A: Anna Paquin
Q: What is the name of the rose coloured gaseous envelope outside the incandescent surface of the sun? A: Chromosphere
Q: In 1915, Rev Philip (Tubby) Clayton founded which organisation as a club and church for returned soldiers? A: Toc H
Q: How many times has croquet been an Olympic sport? A: 1
Q: "About which conflict did Winston Churchill say ""never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few""?" A: Battle of Britain
Q: In which city was US president John F Kennedy assassinated on 22 November 1963? A: Dallas, Texas
Q: The rivers Tewy, Taff, Tone, Taw and Torridge flow into which body of water? A: Bristol Channel
Q: What song by Kings of Leon gave them their first number 1 single in the UK, charting at the top-spot on digital downloads alone, before its physical release? A: Sex on Fire
Q: What was the name of George Stephenson's first steam engine, which first ran on the Manchester and Liverpool Railway in 1830? A: The Rocket
Q: In musical notation, what is the name for the short lines drawn for notes that are too high or too low to fit on the stave? A: Ledger lines
Q: "By what name is the modern game that was published by Milton Bradley Company in 1943 as the pad-and-pencil game ""Broadsides, the Game of Naval Strategy""?" A: Battleships
Q: "What is Malay for ""man of the woods""?" A: Orang Utan
Q: What is the name for the phenomenon that causes a spectrum of light to appear in the sky when the sun shines onto droplets of moisture in the Earth's atmosphere? A: Rainbow
Q: What was the nickname of the Chevalier Raoul, a character in a tale by Perrault in 1697, who murdered successive wives? A: Bluebeard
Q: What caused it to snow in New England at least once every month during 1816? A: The eruption of Tambora
Q: What was the title of Gary Barlow's autobiography, released in 2006? A: My Take
Q: In probability theory and statistics, what is a measure of the variability or dispersion of a population, a data set, or a probability distribution? A: Standard deviation
Q: "With what sport do you associate sponsor's trade names ""Ping"" and ""Titleist""?" A: Golf
Q: What style of architecture is distinguished by extravagant ornamentation, and applies particularly to the decadent style that flourished in Italy in the 16th to 18th centuries? A: Baroque
Q: "Which US president was known as ""Tricky Dicky""?" A: Nixon
Q: Which country was under the influence of the USSR immediately following World War II until 1990, when Wojciech Jaruzelski resigned as president and was succeeded by Lech Wasa? A: Poland
Q: Who is associated with the Lotus car manufacturing company? A: Colin Chapman
Q: The highest temperature at which a liquid can have a stable existence is known as what? A: Boiling point
Q: In which TV series did the characters Crockett and Tubbs appear? A: Miami Vice
Q: Radovan Karadzic is associated with genocide between 1992 and 1995 in which country? A: Bosnia
Q: What instrument for measuring radiant heat was devised by Langley, an American physicist, in 1881? A: Bolometer
Q: Coney Island, the pleasure resort off Long Island, is part of which New York borough? A: Brooklyn
Q: Which city was founded in 763, ravaged by the Mongols in 1258, taken by the Turks in 1636, and occupied by the British from 1917 to 1932? A: Baghdad
Q: With what activity is Russian Marc Chagall associated? A: Painting
Q: What are the names of the late Michael Jackson's parents? A: Joseph and Katherine
Q: The winner of the second Formula One World Championship in 1951 also won the title in 1954, 1955, 1956 & 1957, a record of five World Championship titles which stood until 2003. Who was he? A: Juan Manuel Fangio
Q: The first goal in Football World Cup history was scored on 18 July 1930 by Lucien Laurent of France. France won 41. Who were they playing against? A: Mexico
Q: What is the nickname of the flag of the USA? A: Old Glory
Q: "From which sport do we get the expression ""step up to the plate""?" A: Baseball
Q: Who was rumoured to be reunited with ex-husband Brad Pitt in June 2009? A: Jennifer Aniston
Q: A prune is the dried fruit of which tree? A: Plum
Q: What is the highest point in the 48 contiguous states of the USA? A: Mount Whitney, California
Q: The first women's Olympic competition for gymnastics, at the 1928 Games in Amsterdam, involved only which type of activity? A: Synchronized calisthenics
Q: "The main characters in James Goldman's play ""The Lion in Winter"" are Henry II, his sons John, Geoffrey & Richard, his mistress Alais Capet, and which other?" A: Eleanor of Aquitaine
Q: French aviator Louis Bleriot was the first to do what in an aeroplane on 25 July 1909? A: Cross the English Channel
Q: Antoni Stradivari is associated with the design and building of what instrument? A: Violin
Q: Who assassinated Martin Luther King? A: James Earl Ray
Q: A billion in short scale is 1 followed by 9 zeroes. What is it in long scale? A: 1 followed by 12 zeroes
Q: What is the silt-formed delta of the River Rhone? A: Camargue
Q: What was the favourite horse of Alexander the Great? A: Bucephalus
Q: Juan Antonio Samaranch was the head of which organisation from 1980 to 2001? A: International Olympic Committee (IOC)
Q: Which area was ruled by Kamehaha I and Kamehaha II between 1810 and 1824? A: Hawaii
Q: The sun is hot because of the nuclear transformation of hydrogen to which other gas? A: Helium
Q: What changed its name to Iran in 1935? A: Persia
Q: It is believed that which building stands on the site of temples built successively by Micah, Zerubbabel and Herod in Jerusalem? A: The Mosque of Omar
Q: "Buster Keaton's film ""The Three Ages"" included the invention of Stone Age baseball and modern traffic problems in classical Rome. What is this an example of?" A: Anachronism
Q: Who was president of the USA during the American Civil War? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: "What is the first line of the speech by the 3 witches in Shakespeare's Macbeth that ends ""toil and trouble, fire burn and cauldron bubble""?" A: Double double
Q: What is the name of the prehistoric figure, of a man holding a club, that is carved into the chalk near Dorchester, England? A: Cerne Giant
Q: Primogeniture is the method by which, for example, land passes from a farmer who dies intestate to his eldest son. What is the name of the method whereby the land is divided between all of the sons? A: Gavelkind
Q: Mt Rushmore is near which US city? A: Keystone, South Dakota
Q: Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto are the moons of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: Cannes is a resort in which country? A: France
Q: Who had his first prize fight in 1914, became world heavyweight champion at Toledo in 1919 and was champion until defeated in 1926? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: Who was Oliver's mentor, appointed by Fagan? A: The Artful Dodger
Q: "Whose adopted children are David Banha and Chifundo ""Mercy"" James?" A: Madonna
Q: What name was given to the statues dating from 210 BC, which include warriors, chariots, horses, officials, acrobats, strongmen, and musicians belonging to Qin Shi Huang the First Emperor of China, that were discovered in 1974 by some local farmers near Xi'an, Shaanxi province? A: The Terracotta Army
Q: "Who played the title role in ""Bram Stoker's Dracula"" (1992)?" A: Gary Oldman
Q: The southern border of which country is with the continental USA? A: Canada
Q: What name was given to the force raised by the British Government in 1920 from World War I veterans, withdrawn in 1932, to put down disorder in Ireland? A: Black and tans
Q: What is the term given to the tilt of an aeroplane about its longitudinal axis? A: Bank
Q: David McTaggart co-founded which organisation? A: Greenpeace
Q: Which Serbian-Australian female professional tennis player reached a career-high ranking of World No. 4 in 2002, but after several family-related difficulties (mostly involving her father), she slowly slipped down the rankings in 2006? A: Jelena Dokic
Q: "Which 1972 film, set in the 1930s, involved American Sally Bowles dreaming of becoming a movie star while working at ""The Kit Kat"" in Berlin?" A: Cabaret
Q: Where is the borough of New York called Richmond? A: Staten Island
Q: If the length of two sides of a right angled triangle measured in inches are prime numbers, and it has two adjacent sides of 12 and 13 inches long, how long must the third side be? A: 5
Q: What was the motto of the arms of England during the reigns of Elizabeth I and Anne? A: Semper Eadem
Q: "What name was first applied to the group ""Cream"" when they formed in the early sixties?" A: Supergroup
Q: The most famous versions of what type of book were produced by Bailey in 1721, Johnson in 1755 and Oxford University from 1884? A: Dictionary
Q: What region of the Mediterranean Sea separates Italy from Bosnia and Herzegovina? A: Adriatic
Q: "In ""Through the Looking Glass"", Alice uses a mirror to read which poem?" A: Jabberwocky
Q: Who was exiled to Siberia three times, was active in the plot that overthrew Kerensky in 1917, and became Secretary of the Russian Communist Party? A: Stalin
Q: Which company made the Zero fighter that Japan used in World War II? A: Mitsubishi
Q: What occurs when a ray of light meets an obstacle such as a fine wire? A: Diffraction
Q: What was the title of John Wayne's last movie, made in 1976? A: The Shootist
Q: Which establishment owes much to the offer by Sir Hans Sloane in 1758 for England to purchase his collections? A: British Museum
Q: A word opposite in meaning to another in the same language is called what? A: Antonym
Q: "French intelligence service (DGSE) agents Captain Dominique Prieur and Commander Alain Mafart were convicted of the manslaughter of photographer Fernando Pereira and sinking a ship, Greenpeace's the ""Rainbow Warrior"", in 1985, in which harbour?" A: Auckland, New Zealand
Q: In Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan and among Persian-speaking populations of Central Asia, what is the sport called that involves two teams of horse riders, a dead goat and few rules? A: Buzkashi
Q: What word describes a vertical window in a projection from a steeply sloping roof of a building? A: Dormer
Q: What is the capital of Australia? A: Canberra
Q: "Who was the author of the plays ""The Professor's Love Story"", ""Quality Street"", ""The Admirable Crichton"" and ""Peter Pan""?" A: J M Barrie
Q: "What is the ""First Law of Robotics"" devised by Isaac Asimov in his science fiction stories?" A: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.
Q: What was the capital of the Inca Empire from 1438 to 1532 which, at its peak, dominated a territory that included (from north to south) Ecuador, part of Colombia, the northern half of Chile, and the north-west part of Argentina, and (from west to east) from Bolivia to the Amazonian forests and Peru? A: Cuzco
Q: "Which author and playwright wrote ""An Inspector Calls"", ""When We Are Married"" and ""Dangerous Corner""?" A: J B Priestley
Q: "In ""The Hobbit"", what type of creature was Smaug?" A: Dragon
Q: What card game, played usually between 2 players or teams who try to build up collections of cards of the same value, uses 2 packs with 2 additional jokers? A: Canasta
Q: "The names of how many US states begin with the letter ""I""?" A: 4
Q: What is dichlor-diphenyl-trichlorethane used for? A: Insecticide
Q: Who led the first expedition to successfully circumnavigate the earth between 1519 and 1522, and was killed during the voyage? A: Magellan
Q: Which ship transported the English Separatists, better known as the Pilgrims, from Southampton, England, to Plymouth, Massachusetts in 1620? A: Mayflower
Q: Which country, the capital of which is Asmara, had the King of Ethiopia as its king from 1952? A: Eritrea
Q: What is the name of the group of 140 islands 25 miles south west of Lands End, Cornwall, England? A: Scilly Isles
Q: "At which battle, which began on 4 May 1942, were Japanese losses at least 7 warships, with over 20 others damaged, and USA losses included the aircraft carrier ""Lexington"" and two other ships?" A: The Battle of the Coral Sea
Q: Which legendary character is the subject of musical settings of his adventures, notably by Purcell, Glck and Mozart? A: Don Juan
Q: What is the motto of the Boy Scout movement? A: Be Prepared
Q: Which outdoor game played by 2 to 4 persons with balls and mallets was introduced to England from France in the 1850s? A: Croquet
Q: The experimental new village of Poundbury in England, much of which has been built to traditional lines, is built on land belonging to whom? A: Prince Charles
Q: Which mystic symbol among Buddhists was adopted in reverse by the Nazi party in Germany? A: Swastika
Q: What method of engraving involves cutting lines cut into copper by means of a pointed steel tool? A: Dry point
Q: What is the world's richest horse race? A: Dubai World Cup
Q: What is the English name for the red wines of Bordeaux, especially from vineyards in the Medoc district of the Gironde? A: Claret
Q: Portuguese rule of which country ended in 1975, with the appointment of Samora Machel as its first president? A: Mozambique
Q: On which planet is Olympus Mons? A: Mars
Q: Who married Timothy Laurence in 1992? A: Princess Anne
Q: What name was given to Australian bandits who raided its remoter settlements until the late 19th century? A: Bushrangers
Q: "The ""galop"" from Offenbach's ""Orphe aux Enfers"" is generally associated with what?" A: Can can
Q: Which river runs through the cities of St. Louis, Saint Charles, Jefferson City and Kansas City? A: Missouri
Q: Which cricket commentator, who began his broadcasting career at the BBC in 1960 and commentated in Britain to 2005 and Australia from 1964, announced his 2010 retirement on 18 February 2009? A: Richie Benaud
Q: Which 19th century French physicist erected a pendulum 200 feet high in the Pantheon in Paris to demonstrate the earth's rotation? A: Jean Foucault
Q: What is the next in this series: Sarajevo, Calgary, Albertville ... A: Lillehammer
Q: What type of animal is the world's largest reptile? A: Crocodile
Q: What is the name for a mechanical saw with a (usually vertical) blade, formed by an endless toothed band? A: Bandsaw
Q: "According to Burt Bacharach's theme for ""Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid"", what ""keep fallin' on my head""?" A: Raindrops
Q: What is the name for the British manufacturing district that includes Birmingham, Wolverhampton, West Bromich, Dudley, Smethwick and Walsall? A: Black country
Q: What part of mainland Europe was English territory for 200 years from the mid 14th century? A: Calais
Q: Who was an 8 year old English girl murdered on 24 August 1867 by solicitor's clerk Frederick Baker in Alton, Hampshire: the body was found in a hop field, her head and legs severed, her eyes put out, her torso emptied and her organs scattered? A: Fanny Adams
Q: LeeAnne Rimes and Carrie Underwood are associated with what sort of music? A: Country
Q: "Who was Hugh Grant's female co-star in the film ""Music and Lyrics""?" A: Drew Barrymore
Q: What is the name for an organised body of professional applauders employed in French theatres? A: Claque
Q: Who sang while Ray Manzarek, Robbie Kreiger and John Densmore played? A: Jim Morrison
Q: Which English classic horse race for 3 year olds held at Doncaster every September began in 1776? A: St Leger Stakes
Q: Which race, the first of which was in 1829 and held annually since 1856 (with the exception of the two world wars) is rowed each spring on the Thames in London? A: The Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
Q: The 520 men and 197 women who arrived in 11 ships at Botany Bay, Australia, on 26 January 1788, were mostly what? A: Convicts
Q: Which English botanist became famous for his research during expeditions to the east coast of Canada in 1766, the Pacific in 1769 and Iceland in 1772? A: Joseph Banks
Q: How many times has cricket been an Olympic sport? A: 1
Q: In 1782, what was made the official bird of the USA? A: Bald eagle
Q: In Greek mythology, Croesus was known for what? A: Wealth
Q: "What is always on the label of a bottle of the green liqueur ""Benedictine""?" A: D. O. M.
Q: Who became Roman emperor after the murder of Caligula, and, after the death of his wife, married his niece Agrippina, who poisoned him? A: Claudius
Q: Swiss legendary hero William Tell was instrumental in rescuing his land from the tyranny of which country in 1307? A: Austria
Q: Which river runs through the city of London, England? A: Thames
Q: What is the southernmost point in all U.S. territory? A: Rose Atoll, American Samoa
Q: Dr. James Naismith, a Canadian-born American sports coach and innovator, invented which sport in 1891? A: Basketball
Q: The Empire State Building has how many stories above ground? A: 102
Q: "Which female impersonator, Daniel Carroll, whose career began in 1945 and whose most famous role was in the lead of a major production of ""Hello Dolly!"", died in June 2009?" A: Danny La Rue
Q: Who led the first expedition that reached the South Pole? A: Roald Amundsen
Q: Where is the lowest point in the USA? A: Death Valley
Q: What is an alternative name for Belladonna? A: Deadly Nightshade
Q: Since 2002, the awards presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences have been broadcast from which venue? A: The Kodak Theatre
Q: Who instigated the first complete translation of the Bible into English? A: John Wycliffe
Q: Andreas Thorkildsen set a new Olympic record at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing for throwing what? A: Javelin
Q: What peninsula on the north coast of the Black Sea is connected to the mainland by the isthmus of Perekop? A: Crimea
Q: The naval battle fought on 2 April 1801 known as the Battle of Copenhagen was fought between Denmark and a navy from where? A: Britain
Q: In the USA it is called a bathrobe. What do the British call it? A: Dressing gown
Q: A New Zealand squash player who dominated the sport in the late 1980s and early 1990s, winning the World Open 4 times, is Susan who? A: Devoy
Q: Who, in 1949, became Premier and Foreign Minister of the first all-China Communist government? A: Zhou En-Lai
Q: The episodes of which TV series ended with the family saying goodnight to each other? A: The Waltons
Q: Which London landmark was designed by Sir Christopher Wren to commemorate the Great Fire of London? A: The Monument
Q: What changed its name as a result of the Treaty of Maastricht in 1991? A: European Community
Q: What do members of the Gideon Society leave in hotel bedrooms? A: Bibles
Q: The object of which card game is to make, for example, pairs, sequences, and 15 and 31 points, where scores are marked by means of pegs in a board? A: Cribbage
Q: "Which infectious disease is characterised by ulceration and inflammation of the bowel with generalised toxaemia and ""wasting"", usually caused via infection of food contaminated by flies?" A: Typhoid fever
Q: Who is the heir to the British throne? A: Prince Charles
Q: What is the name for the circle that describes the most northerly point at which the sun appears directly overhead at noon? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: "For which sport, now banned in Britain by the Hunting Act 2004, was the ""Waterloo Cup"" 3 day event run annually at Great Altcar in Lancashire, England from 1836 to 2005?" A: Hare coursing
Q: "What kind of object is ""tansy""?" A: Plant
Q: Which heavenly body was discovered by astronomer Clyde W Tombaugh on 18 February 1930? A: Pluto
Q: What is the base of the cocktail Margarita? A: Tequila
Q: What type of battle was the Battle of Trafalgar? A: Sea battle
Q: """The Blockheads"" released a new album in 2009 after nine years' silence. Who used to be their frontman?" A: Ian Drury
Q: Which film that won an Oscar for Best Picture, explores prejudice against Jews and Afro-Americans over the period 1948 to 1973? A: Driving Miss Daisy
Q: "Which 18th century German composer wrote over 40 operas including ""Orfeo"" and ""Alceste"", comic operas and instrumental music?" A: Christoph Willibald Gluck
Q: What is the symbol for a 35th wedding anniversary? A: Coral
Q: The men travelling as whose crew were the first known humans to reach and cross the Antarctic Circle in 1773? A: Captain James Cook
Q: Which singer and songwriter of the 1970s and 1980s was the first to have three consecutive double albums hit #1 on the Billboard charts, and was the first female artist to have four number-one singles in a thirteen-month period? A: Donna Summer
Q: What relish originating in the Far East, is prepared from sweet fruits, to which acidulous flavours, hot seasoning, peppers and spices are added? A: Chutney
Q: In Britain, by an act of 1541 (repealed in 1845) artificers, labourers, apprentices and servants were forbidden to play which sport at any time except Christmas, and then only in their master's house and presence, or be fined 6s. 8d? A: Bowls
Q: With what art form is Frenchman Paul Czanne associated? A: Painting
Q: Which family includes Louis, a television journalist, his father Paul, a travel writer and novelist, his elder brother Marcel, a writer and television presenter and his cousin Justin, an American actor? A: Theroux
Q: What word is used to describe how to remove rubber from trees? A: Tap
Q: "According to the saying, what ""never boils""?" A: Watched pot
Q: What was the Japanese name for Manchuria after they occupied it in 1931? A: Manchukuo
Q: "Historically, ringing bells were the way of telling time on ships. ""8 bells"" was rung every how many hours?" A: 4
Q: When Edward the Confessor ruled over England, royal petitions became so frequent that they were referred to the Chancellor. Which special court was set up to hear them? A: Chancery
Q: Rickets is caused by a deficiency in which vitamin? A: D
Q: Who was elected president of the southern states of the USA when they seceded from the Union in 1861? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: Which team was the runner-up at the 3rd American Football World Cup in Kawasaki, Japan, in 2007? A: Japan
Q: What is the name for a method of enamel decoration where the design is outlined with soldered metal fillets which are filled with enamel paste or powder, which is vitrified and ground smooth? A: Cloisonn
Q: Plato and Xenophon are the most famous pupils of which Greek philosopher? A: Socrates
Q: What island was occupied by Phoenicians, Greeks, Romans, Goths, Saracens, Normans, and the Angevin, Hapsburg and Bourbon dynasties until it became part of United Italy in 1861? A: Sicily
Q: Where was gold discovered by James Wilson Marshall on January 24, 1848, that led to the California Gold Rush (18481855)? A: Sutter's Mill
Q: Phobos and Deimos are the moons of which planet? A: Mars
Q: Who was president of the Fdration Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), when, on 28 May 1928, the FIFA Congress in Amsterdam decided to stage a world championship? A: Jules Rimet
Q: Which Welsh mountain system runs from the Black Mountains to Snowdon? A: Cambrian
Q: Susan Mayer, Lynette Scavo, Bree Van de Kamp, Gabrielle Solis, Edie Britt, Mary Alice Young, Betty Applewhite, Katherine Mayfair and Karen McCluskey have all lived in which street? A: Wisteria Lane
Q: Crampons are used in what activity? A: Climbing
Q: Who was the Philistine warrior, famous for his battle with David, the future king of Israel, as described in the Hebrew Bible/Christian Old Testament and, more briefly, in the Quran? A: Goliath
Q: What was the name of the representative body in pre-revolutionary Russia that was revived in 1905? A: Duma
Q: What is the name for the position in the orbit of a heavenly body when it is nearest the sun? A: Perihelion
Q: Which British racing car manufacturer and Formula One racing team won four drivers' and two constructors' world championships in its 30-year Formula One history? A: Brabham (Motor Racing Developments Ltd)
Q: In which country, which was neutral in World War II, was there a revolution which deposed the monarchy in 1910, then a military coup d'tat in 1926, followed by a right-wing dictatorship? A: Portugal
Q: Who, we are led to believe, is Dr. Gregory Houses only true friend? A: Dr. James Wilson
Q: What was the nationality of the scholar Erasmus? A: Dutch
Q: Who was the sister of the Emperor Augustus and great niece of Julius Caesar who married Mark Anthony? A: Octavia
Q: What body of water is 86 feet (26 meters) below sea level? A: Caspian Sea
Q: What is the name given to copper bars arranged in a cylinder, insulated from each other which rotates to connect each section of the armature in turn (in a motor) or to the external current (in a dynamo)? A: Commutator
Q: The first series of which BBC sitcom series, set in Billericay, Essex and Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, chronicled the developing romance of the two leads and ended with their becoming Mr. and Mrs. Shipman? A: Gavin & Stacey
Q: Thomas de Torquemada is famous for his part in which event? A: Spanish Inquisition
Q: "Where in London would you find ""Rotten Row""?" A: Hyde Park
Q: "Who was a co-founder of The Undertones in 1976 (which had hits with ""Here Comes The Summer"", ""My Perfect Cousin"", ""Wednesday Week"" and ""It's Going To Happen"") and then went solo, releasing the singles ""Listen To Your Father"", ""A Good Heart"" (1985), ""You Little Thief"" (1986) and in the early 1990s moved into the business side of the music industry?" A: Feargal Sharkey
Q: With which sport is Brett Favre associated? A: American football
Q: Which 72 year old Oscar-winning drector married his long-term German partner, 51, in Hamburg in July 2009? A: Robert Redford
Q: What statistical term is used in government, marketing or opinion research to denote the characteristics of a population? A: Demographic
Q: In which sport might a competitor perform a half Axel? A: Figure skating
Q: In which series are FBI agents Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) the investigators of cases involving paranormal phenomena? A: The X-Files
Q: Which Saint's Day is 30 November? A: St Andrew
Q: Which London street runs from St Paul's churchyard almost to the Bank of England? A: Cheapside
Q: "Who was separated from her husband in June 2009 to film ""Don't Be Afraid of the Dark"" in Australia?" A: Katie Holmes
Q: "What does ""pro forma"" mean?" A: In a set manner
Q: The Southfork Ranch featured in which TV series? A: Dallas
Q: All of the gold medals at the 2009 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships were won by Evgenia Kanaeva, who was representing which country? A: Russia
Q: What was the name of the unofficial mascot of the Sydney 2000 Summer Olympics, which has a statue as part of an official Olympic memorial outside the Sydney Olympic Stadium? A: Fatso
Q: When Robert Falcon Scott reached the south pole in June 1912, he discovered that who had reached it before him? A: Roald Amundsen
Q: The Keil Canal links which 2 seas? A: North and Baltic
Q: Porfirio Diaz resigned from the presidency of which country in May 1911? A: Mexico
Q: "In Belgium, what are ""polders""?" A: Reclaimed land
Q: According to the proverb, people who sup with whom should use a long spoon? A: The devil
Q: To whom was David Rizzio the secretary, when he was stabbed to death by her husband, Lord Darnley in 1566 at Holyrood House, Edinburgh? A: Mary Queen of Scots
Q: "What was surname of ""George and Mildred""?" A: Roper
Q: "Whose career was re-ignited with the release of his album ""American Recordings"", which included songs writen by Tom Waits, Nick Lowe and Leonard Cohen, when it won the 1994 Contemporary Folk Album Grammy Award?" A: Johnny Cash
Q: Seas and oceans make up roughly what proportion of the earth's surface? A: 70%
Q: What is the driest region of the USA? A: Death Valley
Q: What name is given to the silvery aureole enveloping the sun's chromosphere? A: Corona
Q: Traditionally, what is shouted by a town crier? A: Oyez
Q: The main characters of which play by Henrik Ibsen are Dr. Thomas Stockmann, his wife and three children, and Peter Stockmann, the Mayor, who is his elder brother? A: An Enemy of the People
Q: What nationality was J Landy, who broke Roger Bannister's record for the mile of 3 minutes 59.4 seconds by recording 3 minutes 58 seconds on 21 June 1954? A: Australian
Q: Tansu Ciller became the first female Prime Minister of which Muslim country in 1993? A: Turkey
Q: Making their record debut in 1989, what were Squire, Mani, Reni and Brown collectively known as? A: The Stone Roses
Q: In 1818 Bernadotte became King Charles XIV of Sweden due to the influence of whom? A: Napoleon I
Q: The capital of which French island in the West Indies between Dominica and Santa Lucia, St Pierre, was destroyed by an earthquake in 1902 and moved to Fort de France? A: Martinique
Q: "Who was president of the Society for Constructive Birth Control and Racial Progress in England and the author of books on sexual hygiene published between 1918 and 1935 including ""Married Love"", ""Radiant Motherhood"" and ""Marriage in My Time""?" A: Marie Stopes
Q: What was the popular name for the Paris prison at 232 Rue Saint-Antoine that was stormed during the French Revolution in 1789? A: Bastille
Q: Where was film actor Errol Flynn born in 1909? A: Hobart, Tasmania, Australia
Q: In botany, what is the word for the scar left on a tree or plant after a leaf falls? A: Cicatrix
Q: In March 1918, the capital of Russia was moved to where? A: Moscow
Q: The planet Mercury was photographed in 1974 and 1975 by which spacecraft? A: Mariner 10
Q: "According to the title of a song from the musical ""The Sound of Music"", who was lonely?" A: Goatherd
Q: In London, where are the trials of the pyx held? A: Hall of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths
Q: "What object, which had been brought to Westminster Abbey in 1296 and placed under ""St Edward's chair"", was stolen and taken to Scotland in December 1950 and returned the following April?" A: The Coronation Stone
Q: What instrument is installed in an electrical circuit to vary the resistance? A: Rheostat
Q: In the 2009 FA Cup Chelsea v Everton which player received a record 5th winner's medal? A: Ashley Cole
Q: "A novel by Frederick Forsythe was ""The (what) of War""?" A: Dogs
Q: The third atomic bomb to be dropped from an aeroplane was where? A: The Marshall Islands
Q: Who was the Puritan leader and first governor of the Pilgrim Fathers, who organised the voyage of the Mayflower to Plymouth, New Hampshire? A: John Carver
Q: Which religion has about 119 million known adherents in Japan? A: Shinto
Q: Which country is made up of 176 islands, 36 of them inhabited, in 3 groups (called Vava'u, Ha'apai, and Tongatapu) which stretch north-south for 800 kilometers (500 miles)? A: Tonga
Q: "Which of the Hindu Trimurti is ""The Creator""?" A: Brahma
Q: The Wimbledon tennis championships are held in which city? A: London
Q: In the words of a song by Simon and Garfunkel, whose words were written on the subway wall? A: The prophet
Q: Atlantic equatorial currents pushed westward by the Trade Winds unite in the Gulf of Mexico and then flow northward. What is the north-flowing current called? A: Gulf Stream
Q: Which country returned to a democratic form of government after the death of dictator Juan Vincente Gomez in 1935? A: Venezuela
Q: What is the name of the index of average daily prices on the New York Stock Exchange? A: Dow Jones
Q: "Who are the two main characters in the TV series ""The Big Bang Theory""?" A: Sheldon and Leonard
Q: Where was the first motor race to regularly carry the name Grand Prix, the first of which took place in 1906 on a circuit roughly triangular in shape, each lap covering 105 kilometres (65 miles)? A: Le Mans
Q: Where did Pope Benedict XVI make his first visit as Pope? A: Germany
Q: If you travelled down the Yarra River in Australia, which city would you be in when you reached the ocean? A: Melbourne, Australia
Q: In the southern hemisphere, the winds associated with a cyclone, a region of low pressure, blow in which direction? A: Clockwise
Q: Which TV series followed the exploits of Father Ted Crilly, Father Dougal McGuire and the retired Father Jack Hackett, who preside over a parish on Craggy Island? A: Father Ted
Q: Where was a nuclear reactor accident that resulted in a severe release of radioactivity following a massive power excursion which destroyed the reactor on 26 April 1986 at 01:23:45 a.m.? A: Chernobyl
Q: Who was the British nurse executed on 12 October 1915 for harbouring wounded and refugee soldiers in Brussels during the German occupation, and assisting escapes to Holland? A: Edith Cavell
Q: In what year was the first demonstration of a helicopter lifting itself organised by Louis Breguet and Professor Richet? A: 1907
Q: At Turin (2006), who became the first Canadian to win five medals in one Olympic Games? A: Cindy Klassen
Q: Goidelic is one type of the Celtic language. What is the other? A: Brythonic
Q: Nelson Piquet Jnr was accused of deliberately crashing at which F1 race in 2008 that paved the way for Renault's Fernando Alonso to win? A: Singapore
Q: What has been the motto of the Prince of Wales since the 14th century? A: Ich dien
Q: What is the name for a condition of decay in timber caused by attacks of fungi? A: Dry rot
Q: Which district of Los Angeles is the centre of the US film industry? A: Hollywood
Q: "According to the old song, when will I ""be waiting at the k-k-kitchen door"" for ""K-K-Katy, beautiful Katy""?" A: The m-m-moon shines over the cowshed
Q: What is the shortest book of the Old Testament? A: Obadiah
Q: What is the only Southeast Asian nation that has never been colonised, mainly because it had a long succession of able rulers in the 1800s, and was able to exploit the rivalry between the French and the British? A: Thailand
Q: What shape are the 8 faces of an octahedron? A: Triangles
Q: The crosses of how many saints make up the British flag, the Union Jack? A: 3
Q: "Which physicist wrote ""A Brief History of Time""?" A: Stephen Hawking
Q: "Which artist is famous for his ""blue period""?" A: Picasso
Q: In what month is Independence Day celebrated in the USA? A: July
Q: According to the legend, Peeping Tom was looking at whom? A: Lady Godiva
Q: "Which long-running British TV series which began as a one-off drama entitled ""Woodentop"" revolves around the lives of policemen stationed at Sun Hill?" A: The Bill
Q: What is the term for light created by means of heat? A: Incandescence
Q: What is the next in the series: Chamonix, France; St. Moritz, Switzerland; Lake Placid, United States; Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany? A: St. Moritz, Switzerland
Q: "The ""Ring of Fire"" is an area of seismic activity around which ocean?" A: Pacific
Q: In 1389, Queen Margaret ruled over Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Greenland, Iceland and which other country? A: Finland
Q: Who did Venus Williams defeat in 2001 to win her second consecutive US Open tennis title? A: Serena Williams
Q: Cayenne pepper is a condiment prepared from the dried and pounded pods of several species of what? A: Capsicum
Q: Dayaks are native to what area? A: Borneo
Q: "The term ""tessellated"" refers to what type of art?" A: Mosaic
Q: "What was the name that US President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave to his package of economic programs in the mid 1930's with the goals of ""the 3 R's"": Relief to the unemployed & farmers, Reform of business and financial practices, and Recovery of the economy?" A: The New Deal
Q: What is the name of an exhibition basketball team that combines athleticism, theatre and comedy that was created by Abe Saperstein in 1926 in Chicago, Illinois? A: Harlem Globetrotters
Q: What name is given to a section of the Alps located mostly in the province of Belluno, and extending into the provinces of Bolzano-Bozen and Trento? A: The Dolomites
Q: Where is the world's longest toughest horse race of over 1000 km in the footsteps of Genghis Khan? A: Mongolia
Q: k. d. lang is best known in what occupation? A: Singer
Q: "What is the name of the dot on a lower case ""i"" and ""j""?" A: Tittle
Q: The Australian Open Tennis Championship is held in which city? A: Melbourne
Q: The painter Pablo Picasso was born in which country? A: Spain
Q: What is measured in quires? A: Paper
Q: In the 2009 British Open golf tournament, Stewart Cink and Tom Watson had to play how many extra holes to decide the winner? A: 4
Q: What sent back the first pictures of the moon's surface by video? A: Ranger 7
Q: The Lndler is a traditional dance from where? A: Austria
Q: What name was given to the accidental destruction caused to British trawlers and fishermen by ships from the Russian navy on 21 October 1904, during the Russo-Japanese War? A: Dogger Bank Incident
Q: What Three Laws were formulated by Johannes Kepler in the early 1600s? A: Planetary Motion
Q: What is the main ingredient of pilau? A: Rice
Q: "Which 18th century writer produced ""She Stoops To Conquer"" and ""The Vicar Of Wakefield""?" A: Oliver Goldsmith
Q: "What is the name of the pet dog in the 1962 cartoon TV series ""The Jetsons""?" A: Astro
Q: How many sides does a trapezoid have? A: 4
Q: What made the first voyage around the world by air in 1929? A: Graf Zeppelin
Q: With which sport is Babe Ruth associated? A: Baseball
Q: Who was an American clergyman, activist and prominent leader in the African-American civil rights movement who was assassinated on 4 April 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee? A: Martin Luther King, Jr.
Q: Which mountain chain runs down the centre of South America? A: Andes
Q: Miso soup originated in which country? A: Japan
Q: Where does Harry Potter have a scar in the shape of a bolt of lightning? A: On his forehead
Q: Which make of car has won the most 24 Hour races at Le Mans? A: Porsche
Q: How many states of the USA have the words North, South, East or West in their name? A: 5
Q: What festival is known as Yom Kippur? A: Day of Atonement
Q: Until and including the birth of her twins in July 2008, how many children, including adopted children, did Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have? A: 6
Q: What is the richest horse race in Europe? A: Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe
Q: What colour is pure sulphur? A: Yellow
Q: Since the late 1930s, what date has been reserved for the inauguration of a President of the USA? A: 20 January
Q: "Who won the Best Actress Oscar for her role as Queen Elizabeth II in ""The Queen""?" A: Helen Mirren
Q: In which year was the longest Tour de France held? A: 1926
Q: In the southern hemisphere, when does the winter solstice occur? A: June
Q: What is the closest relation that your father's sister's sister in law can be to you? A: Mother
Q: The USA purchased Alaska in 1867 from which country? A: Russia
Q: "According to the song, where did Molly Malone ""wheel her wheelbarrow""?" A: Dublin
Q: Film actor Mel Gibson was born in which country? A: USA
Q: How many three minute rounds are there in a boxing match at the Olympic Games? A: 3
Q: After leading a rebel army for 20 years, Ahmed Sukarno was elected the first president of which country after it was granted independence in 1949? A: Indonesia
Q: The Tri Nations Championship played between South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, is in what sport? A: Rugby union
Q: What was the stage name of Jean Franois Gravelet, a French acrobat who crossed Niagara Falls in 1859 on a tightrope 160 feet above the water? A: Charles Blondin
Q: "Which 19th century French artist is best known for his illustrations for the ""Bible"", ""Paradise Lost"", Dante's ""Inferno"", ""Don Quixote"" and the works of Rabelais and Balzac?" A: Gustave Dor
Q: The Epcot Centre is part of which tourist attraction? A: Walt Disney World
Q: What is the name of the three bones that make up a human finger? A: Phalanges
Q: What name is given to a 25th wedding anniversary? A: Silver
Q: In which general direction would you sail from New York to London? A: East
Q: The Boer War was fought in which country? A: South Africa
Q: What is the common name for a lepidoptera pupa and its silky cocoon? A: Chrysalis
Q: Hudson Bay is a large inland sea in which country? A: Canada
Q: "What name was given to 6 labourers in Dorset, England, who formed a ""Friendly Society of Agricultural Labourers"" and in 1834 were sentenced to 7 years transportation for ""administering unlawful oaths""?" A: The Tolpuddle Martyrs
Q: "The ""pre-Raphaelite movement"" was about what?" A: Painting
Q: What was a negative term US Southerners gave to Northerner speculators in the South soon after the Civil War? A: Carpetbaggers
Q: What attaches muscles to bone? A: Tendons
Q: """The World Series"" has been the annual championship series of the highest level of professional players of which sport in the USA and Canada since 1903?" A: Baseball
Q: Which African city has the largest population? A: Lagos
Q: "Which animal appears in the opening credits of the British TV series ""Coronation Street""?" A: Cat
Q: Which Swiss theologian, philosopher, author, organist and medical missionary won a Nobel Peace Prize in 1952? A: Albert Schweitzer
Q: Cleopatra is reputed to have killed herself because of the death of whom? A: Mark Antony
Q: "Which song contains the line ""You can dance, you can jive, having the time of your life""?" A: Dancing Queen
Q: Death Valley is in which state of the USA? A: California
Q: Who holds the record for being the world heavyweight boxing champion at 11 years 8 months and 9 days?. A: Joe Louis
Q: What is the name for 40 foot (12 meters) high round forts, designed to accommodate a small garrison with cannon, constructed on the English coast and the Channel Islands at the time of threatened invasion by Napoleon? A: Martello Towers
Q: "What TV programme opens with the words ""In the criminal justice system the people are represented by two separate but equally important groups""?" A: Law & Order
Q: Most of Yellowstone National Park is in which state? A: Wyoming
Q: A US senator is elected for term of how many years? A: 6
Q: The Superclsico is contested between Boca Juniors and River Plate in Buenos Aires, in what sport? A: Soccer
Q: What is the name of the small village near Calcutta where the first hollow-nosed rifle bullets were made? A: Dum-dum
Q: Late in July 2009, what phenomenon affected the daily lives of people in the cities of Chengdu, Chongquing, Shanghai and Hangzhou, China? A: Solar eclipse
Q: What is the first name of the British fashion designer Westwood? A: Vivienne
Q: What is the basis for a pina colada? A: Rum
Q: Of the 37 venues used to host events at the 2008 Summer Olympics, how many new ones were constructed for use at the Games? A: 12
Q: What does the The River Ganges empty into? A: Bay of Bengal
Q: By the time his Olympic career ended in 1960, who had won more Olympic medals than any other fencer? A: Edoardo Mangiarotti
Q: "Who wrote the tale ""The Princess and the Pea""?" A: Hans Christian Andersen
Q: The Giant's Causeway is a rock formation found where? A: Northern Ireland
Q: The Czechoslovakian composer Anton Dvork was most proficient in which instrument? A: Violin
Q: What name is given to the period of British history between 1901 and 1910? A: Edwardian
Q: Which of the Great Lakes is the furthest east? A: Ontario
Q: In April 2009 citizens of the Swiss canton of Appenzell Inner Rhodes in the Alps voted overwhelmingly to pass legislation banning what? A: Naked hiking
Q: Which Saint's Day is 1 March? A: St David
Q: Which international soccer team plays in shirts with blue and white vertical stripes? A: Argentina
Q: What is the oldest city of European origin, established in 1565 by Pedro Menedesto, that still exists in what is now the USA? A: St Augustine, Florida
Q: A peace camp was established at which RAF base in Berkshire, England from 1981 to 2000 to protest at nuclear weapons being sited there? A: Greenham Common
Q: What is used to find the pitch of a note? A: Tuning fork
Q: What is the relationship between Ukrainians Vitali Klitschko and Wladimir Klitschko, who have dominated the IBF, WBO, WBC and IBO world heavyweight championships since 1999? A: Brothers
Q: Chicago is known as what? A: The Windy City
Q: Who is the mother of Pax, Knox, Vivienne, Zahara, Shiloh and Maddox? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: Which team won the inaugural tournament for the FIFA World Cup (Soccer) in 1930? A: Uruguay
Q: "The word ""vascular"" is associated with what?" A: Blood vessels
Q: According to legend, what did St Patrick drive out of Ireland? A: Snakes
Q: Actress Nicole Kidman married which country singer in 2006? A: Keith Urban
Q: Who, at the end of her Olympic career in 1964, held the record for winning the most Olympic medals at 18 and the record for most individual medals (14 outside of team events) in Olympic history? A: Larissa Latynina
Q: "Where was nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale (""the lady with the lamp"") born?" A: Florence, Italy
Q: Which country that achieved independence in 1962 has had leaders named Milton Obote and Idi Amin Dada? A: Uganda
Q: Who is the only member of the current membership of Fleetwood Mac who does not play an instrument regularly on stage? A: Stevie Nicks
Q: """The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win but to take part, just as the most important thing in life is not the triumph but the struggle. The essential thing is not to have conquered but to have fought well."" This is known as what?" A: The Olympic Creed
Q: Georges Leopold Cuvier is associated with which science? A: Paleontology
Q: "A 1999 James Bond film was entitled ""The World is not ... "" what?" A: Enough
Q: Who was the British engineer who designed the first television system suitable for broadcast transmission in 1939? A: John Logie Baird
Q: Which country has won the most medals at the European Beach Volleyball Championship (later known as the Nestea European Championship Final) between 2000 and 2008 inclusive? A: Switzerland
Q: On 29 March 1971, Lieutenant William Calley was found guilty by a court martial for murdering 20 civilians in 1968 - where? A: My Lai, Vietnam
Q: John F. Kennedy International Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport and LaGuardia Airport all serve which city? A: New York
Q: What book was written by Alexandre Dumas about Edmond Dantes' imprisonment in the Chateau d'If? A: The Count Of Monte Cristo
Q: The Drake Equation calculates the potential number of what? A: Extraterrestrial civilizations in the Milky Way
Q: Which biblical personality was called Jekuthiel, Heber, Jered, Avi Zanoah, Avi Gedor, Avi Soco, Shemaiah ben Nethanel, Toviah, Levi, Heman, Mechoqeiq and Ehl Gav Ish? A: Moses
Q: The Galapagos Islands belong to which country? A: Ecuador
Q: Jacqueline du Pr was famous for playing what instrument? A: Cello
Q: What word is used in the UK for chicken less than 28 days old at slaughter and usually weighing 400-450 grammes and in the USA for the Rock Cornish game hen, which is twice as old and twice as large? A: Poussin
Q: "In 2008 there were 193 members of the United Nations. How many ""nations"" were represented at the 2008 Summer Olympics?" A: 204
Q: "What type of visual art is often called ""the art of writing""?" A: Calligraphy
Q: What is the nationality of 2007 IndyCar Series champion George Dario Marino Franchitti? A: Scottish
Q: Which currently reigning royal family is from the House of Orange? A: Dutch
Q: What is the family name of the rulers of Monaco? A: Grimaldi
Q: The large wrinkled leaves of which plant provide digitalin, used in the treatment of heart conditions? A: Foxglove
Q: What did Sir Robert Peel establish in London in the late 19th century? A: Metropolitan Police Force
Q: A United Nations report published in July 2007 placed which country first in the industrialized world in marijuana use, at 14.1% of the population? A: Canada
Q: Who discovered the moon of Saturn called Titan in 1655? A: Huygens
Q: Which company bought the Daimler, Lanchester, Jaguar and Land Rover brand names in March 2008? A: Tata Motors, India
Q: Mount St Helens is in which state of the USA? A: Washington
Q: Which city hosted the Commonwealth Games in 2002? A: Manchester
Q: Who published his method of heating food to kill micro-organisms and sealing the container, in 1810? A: Nicolas Appert
Q: Which 1980s pop group was led by Boy George? A: Culture Club
Q: According to the proverb, the way to hell is paved with what? A: Good intentions
Q: Singer Avril Levigne was born in which country? A: Canada
Q: Liberia is a country on which continent? A: Africa
Q: "Who was the heroine who rescued 9 people from the wreck of the ""Forfarshire"", taking them to the lighthouse on the Longstone, one of the Farne Islands, on 7 September 1838?" A: Grace Darling
Q: Which archipelago, formerly administered by Madagascar, includes the islands of Mayotte, Anjouan, Grande Comore and Moheli? A: Comoro
Q: What popular name was given to the British 8th Army in World War II? A: Desert Rats
Q: What bodily process breaks food down into nutrients? A: Digestion
Q: Who was the British general who took Charleston, South Carolina, 1779 during the American War of Independence? A: Sir Henry Clinton
Q: Joanna Lumley and David McCallum played which pair in a TV series? A: Sapphire and Steel
Q: "Andalusia, Catalonia, Galicia, Aragon, Castilla y Len, Castile-La Mancha, and Extremadura are ""autonomous communities"" in which nation?" A: Spain
Q: What title was taken by Napoleon Bonaparte on 2 December 1804? A: Emperor of the French
Q: "In music, what does ""pp"" mean?" A: Very soft
Q: What is the name of the New Zealand national rugby team? A: All Blacks
Q: What form of singing involves an extended note which rapidly repeatedly changes in pitch from the chest register to falsetto, making a high-low-high-low sound? A: Yodeling
Q: "Which early 20th century American novelist wrote ""The Crisis"", ""Crossing"", ""Coniston"", ""Mr Crewe's Career"" and ""Far Country""?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: What was the name of the first British jet bomber built in 1949 by English Electric? A: Canberra
Q: Who patented the phonograph in 1877? A: Thomas Edison
Q: Which British monarch was the first to celebrate a diamond jubilee? A: Victoria
Q: What was founded in 1560 and, except for intervals in the 17th century, became and continues to be the established church in Scotland ? A: Church of Scotland
Q: Which country ended the USA's 132 year hold on the America's Cup? A: Australia
Q: Where are the Straits of Bonifacto? A: Between Corsica and Sardinia
Q: What does MIX in Roman numerals mean? A: 1009
Q: "Which city is ""that toddlin' town"" where ""on State Street that great street ... They do things that they don't do on Broadway. They have the time the time of their life: I saw a man and he danced with his wife""?" A: Chicago
Q: George Whitefield and Jonathan Edwards were well known in the British American colonies in the mid 18th century for being what? A: Methodist preachers
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays did the Montague and Capulet families appear? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: Who was King of Hungary from 1000 to 1038, changed his name from Wajk on becoming Christian, and is Hungary's patron saint? A: Stephen
Q: What, with the sickle, is a symbol of communism? A: Hammer
Q: An outbreak of what in Nigeria affected 5,323 people and killed 333 in the first 3 months of 2009? A: Meningitis
Q: The Maoist organisation Sendero Luminoso is based in which country? A: Peru
Q: Beat Mndli, Daniel Deusser, Markus Beerbaum and Meredith Michaels-Beerbaum are world ranking competitors in which sport? A: Show Jumping
Q: One US gallon is equal to how many pints? A: 8
Q: What voting system for General Elections was first implemented in the Australian colony of Tasmania on 7 February 1856 and introduced to Britain in 1872 by the Ballot Act? A: Secret ballot
Q: "The best known works of which sculptor who aroused hostility over the depiction of sexuality, are 18 large nude sculptures in 1908 for the British Medical Association building on The Strand, the tomb of Oscar Wilde in Pere Lachaise cemetery, Paris, ""Rush of Green"" in Hyde Park, London, and ""St Michael's Victory over the Devil"" in Coventry Cathedral?" A: Jacob Epstein
Q: Where would you find the mosques of El Hakim, Amru, Hason, El Maayyad and El Sunkur? A: Cairo
Q: Sir Mortimer Wheeler was connected with what activity? A: Archaeology
Q: """The Warden"", ""Barchester Towers"", ""Dr Thorne"", Framley Parsonage"", ""The Small House of Allington"" and ""Last Chronicle of Barset"" are collectively known as what?" A: The Barsetshire Novels
Q: Which US government official is the equivalent of the British Foreign Secretary? A: Secretary of State
Q: "Who was defence counsel at the Oz conspiracy trial in 1971 and defended the Sex Pistols in a 1977 obscenity trial over the title of their album ""Never Mind The Bollocks""?" A: John Mortimer
Q: The Napa Valley wine producing region is in which country? A: USA
Q: What is another name for a ghost? A: Apparition
Q: Which Commedia dell'arte character was servant to the Inamorata, and the daughter of Pantaloon and courted by Harlequin? A: Columbine
Q: Dermatitis affects what part of the body? A: Skin
Q: "Who was the star of ""High Noon"", the American 1952 western film directed by Fred Zinnemann that tells the story of a town marshal who is forced to face a gang of killers by himself?" A: Gary Cooper
Q: What pieces occupy all four corners of the board at the start of a chess game? A: Rooks
Q: "How many nouns are there in the following sentence: ""Andrew gave his son a toy to play with""?" A: 3
Q: Where did Pluto, discovered in 1930 (and designated a planet at the time), get its name? A: Greek legend
Q: What was organised by Catherine de Medici, Queen Mother, France, to crush the Huguenots in August 1572 at the wedding of Henry of Navarre to Marguerite, sister of Charles IX, that resulted in the death of around 30,000 people? A: Massacre of St Bartholomew
Q: The Pyrenees mountain range is on which continent? A: Europe
Q: Where would you find the Koh-I-Noor and the Cullinan? A: British crown jewels
Q: Who were Mr and Mrs Munster in the 1960s TV series? A: Lily and Herman
Q: "Who wrote a book about the US car industry, published in 1965, called ""Unsafe at Any Speed""?" A: Ralph Nader
Q: What shape are the 4 faces of a tetrahedron? A: Triangles
Q: "What is German for ""ghost who makes a racket""?" A: Poltergeist
Q: What is the only joint rule in the history of England? A: William III and Mary II
Q: What is an area of garden that contains flowers? A: Bed
Q: Who was the world snooker champion in 1998, 2007 and 2009? A: John Higgins
Q: The sun is mostly made up of what material? A: Gas
Q: Which French naval officer invented the aqualung? A: Jacques-Yves Cousteau
Q: Which 1987 thriller film involves a spurned lover killing and boiling a pet rabbit? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: What name was given to the one eyed giants in Greek fables? A: Cyclopes
Q: In 1996, who joined Paavo Nurmi, Larysa Latynina and Mark Spitz, tied for the record numer of Olympic gold medals (9) ever? A: Carl Lewis
Q: "What type of plant is ""stinkhorn""?" A: Fungus
Q: O'Hare International Airport serves which city? A: Chicago
Q: "Daryl Hannah starred with Tom Hanks and John Candy as what in the 1984 film ""Splash""?" A: Mermaid
Q: Which cross has the upright longer than the transverse piece, and has a circle around the head / join? A: Celtic cross
Q: What disorder did the hero of the Bourne trilogy of films suffer from? A: Amnesia
Q: When did the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) first lay down the laws of cricket? A: 1788
Q: Who, on 2 October 1925, transmitted a picture of William Taynton, an office boy from the offices on the floor below his laboratory at 22 Frith Street in Soho, London, from one room to another? A: John Logie Baird
Q: "What was the setting for the 1998 film starring Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah, ""Sliding Doors""?" A: London
Q: "Which sport, played by 2 teams of 8 who use a rope, is marked with a ""centre line"" and two markings four metres either side of the centre line?" A: Tug-of-War
Q: On 17 September 1862, where was The Battle of Antietam, the first major battle in the American Civil War to take place on Northern soil and the bloodiest single-day battle in American history (with about 23,000 casualties)? A: Near Sharpsburg, Maryland
Q: Who was jailed for 150 years in June 2009 for investor fraud after being reported to federal authorities by his sons? A: Bernie Madoff
Q: What is the accounting term for a liability that may arise if a future event does not happen? A: Contingent liability
Q: In the film Spiderman 2 (2004), which New York newspaper does Spiderman's alter ego take photographs for? A: The Daily Bugle
Q: Who, in 1794, patented the cotton gin, that enabled cotton fibres to be plucked from seeds mechanically? A: Eli Whitney
Q: "What is the name used in the USA for the board game that the English call ""draughts""?" A: Checkers
Q: "Which word means ""to refuse to take part""?" A: Boycott
Q: "According to the tagline for a film musical starring John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John, what ""is the word""?" A: Grease
Q: An annual World Cup for which sport, which ran from 1979 to 1990, featured teams of three players representing their country against other such teams, but with individual 1st, 2nd, etc., places? A: Snooker
Q: Queen Elizabeth I of England was from which Royal House? A: Tudor
Q: What word means the spread of a cancer from one organ or part to another non-adjacent organ or part? A: Metastasis
Q: "What is a ""bichon frise""?" A: Dog
Q: James, son of Mary Queen of Scots (who was executed for treason during the reign of Elizabeth I) was the first to use which title? A: King of Great Britain
Q: What is the first geological period of the Paleozoic era? A: Cambrian
Q: Where is the Hedingley Cricket Ground? A: Leeds
Q: "Where is the British Royal Yacht ""Britannia"", decommissioned in 1997, permanently moored as a visitor attraction?" A: Ocean Terminal, Leith, Edinburgh, Scotland
Q: What military strategy involves destroying anything that might be useful to the enemy while passing through an area, first used by the Scythians against King Darius the Great of Persia around 500 BC., and best known for its use by both sides when Germany attacked and then retreated from the USSR in World War II? A: Scorched earth
Q: The state of Indiana borders which Great Lake? A: Michigan
Q: "Which character in a play has a soliloquy that begins ""To be or not to be, that is the question.""?" A: Hamlet
Q: What range of hills runs 50 miles from the Worcestershire border through Gloucestershire to the Avon? A: Cotswolds
Q: "What is the term used to describe the collection of flowers in species that have more than one flower on an axis (sometimes called ""composite flowers""?" A: Inflorescence
Q: Theoretically, what is the minimum number of strokes with which a tennis player can win a set? A: 12
Q: What figure of Apollo stood from around 280 BC until destroyed by an earthquake around 224 BC? A: Colossus of Rhodes
Q: 17 year old Zac Sunderland made the world's news in July 2009 for doing what? A: Sailing around the world solo
Q: The record for the most years between winning gold medals was set by Aladar Grevich (Hungary) in 1960. His previous gold had been won in 1932. What sport did he compete in? A: Fencing
Q: In economics, what is TWI? A: Trade Weighted Index
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by an archer? A: Sagittarius
Q: "If someone is referred to as a ""liverpudlian"", which city do they come from?" A: Liverpool
Q: What is the name for the point on the earth's surface that is directly above an earthquake? A: Epicentre
Q: "Who starred in the film ""Good Morning, Vietnam"" (1987)?" A: Robin Williams
Q: Who was behind the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch, a failed attempt to overthrow the government? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Which Scottish biologist and pharmacologist who published many articles on bacteriology, immunology and chemotherapy, discovered the enzyme lysozyme in 1923 and an antibiotic substance from a fungus in 1928? A: Alexander Fleming
Q: Which Olympic sport was contested in only 1900 and 1908, by teams from only 3 countries (Canada, USA and Germany) altogether? A: Lacrosse
Q: The longest winning streak by any nation at an event in the Olympic Games was set by the USA, between 1896 and 1968. What was the event? A: Pole vault
Q: What is the collective name for the islands with a land area of 4,167 squ km (1,622 squ miles) over 2,500,000 squ km (965,255 squ miles) of ocean, made up of several groups of islands, including the Austral Islands, the Marquesas, the Society Islands and the Tuamotu Archipelago? A: French Polynesia
Q: Which element, with a melting point of 3,370 degrees C was discovered in 1783 by Jos and Fausto Elhuyar? A: Tungsten
Q: "Salvador Allende, General Augusto Pinochet and the ""Caravan of Death"" are all connected with the history of which country in the 1970s and 1980s?" A: Chile
Q: Where did United Airlines flight 93, hijacked by terrorists on 11 September 2001, crash? A: Pennsylvania
Q: What is the main intelligence service of Israel? A: Mossad
Q: What was the title of the novelty single released by the Israeli duo Esther and Abi Ofarim, number one for 3 weeks in the UK in 1968, that features yodelling and 1920s-style lyrics and music? A: Cinderella Rockefeller
Q: Suede is variety of what? A: Leather
Q: In a film script, what do the letters MCU mean? A: Medium Close Up
Q: What book published in 1864 by William Wallace Mitchell, a Glasgow Cotton Merchant, became the basis of the rules of a modern game? A: """Manual of Bowls Playing"""
Q: A merino is a type of what? A: Sheep
Q: """Tiramisu"" is a type of what?" A: Cake
Q: What is on the northern border of South Dakota? A: North Dakota
Q: By what name was Eric Weiss better known? A: Harry Houdini
Q: What was worn by the leader of the first Tour de France? A: Green armband
Q: "In 1959, the Soviet space probe ""Luna Two"" became the first man-made object to do what?" A: Reach the moon
Q: "Which TV series had the slogan ""The Truth Is Out There""?" A: The X Files
Q: "What is the name given to the code of Roman law that was ""published"" with the approval of the Roman Republic in 450 BC?" A: The Twelve Tables
Q: Trinity College, London, issues which diplomas? A: LTCL
Q: Mastitis is a complaint affecting what? A: Dairy cows
Q: "Who printed his own translations of a French romance ""The Recwyell of the Historyes of Troy"" and ""The Game and Plays of the Chesse"" in Bruges in 1474?" A: William Caxton
Q: Where do the rivers Dart, Tavy, Teigh and Okement rise? A: Dartmoor
Q: "General Victoriano Huerta, Emiliano Zapata and ""Pancho"" Villa feature in the history of which country?" A: Mexico
Q: What is the surname of Rebecca in the novel by Daphne du Maurier? A: De Winter
Q: What name was given by the Greeks to cave dwellers who supposedly lived in the Caucasus or on the banks of the Red Sea? A: Troglodytes
Q: Duke Kahanamoku, who won Olympic gold in Swimming (100 m freestyle) in 1912 at Stockholm and 1920 at Antwerp popularised what sport? A: Surfing
Q: "Who, in 2004, was nominated for two academy awards: Best Supporting Actor in ""Collateral""and Best Actor in ""Ray"" (which he won)?" A: Jamie Foxx
Q: "The song ""Shall We Dance"" is from which musical?" A: The King And I
Q: Which sport has been included in only one Olympic Games, in Paris in 1900, when competition was between the Devon and Somerset Wanderers (representing England) and a team from the British embassy in Paris (representing France)? A: Cricket
Q: In the human body, the adrenal glands are directly above which organ? A: Kidney
Q: In which country does over half of the population live on reclaimed land? A: The Netherlands
Q: What shape are the 12 faces of a dodecahedron? A: Pentagons
Q: What Greek mythological female monster has the head of a lion, the body of a goat and the rear of a dragon? A: Chimaera
Q: Who set a world land speed record of over 400 miles per hour at Bonneville, Utah, USA, and was killed attempting a new water speed record on Loch Ness in September 1952? A: John Cobb
Q: Mary Quant became famous in the 1960s for designing what? A: Clothes
Q: Professional sidekick Dick Grayson is better known as who? A: Robin
Q: What was the name of the plane that Amy Johnson flew solo from Britain to Australia in 1930? A: Jason
Q: Which country came first second and third in the golf teams event at the 1904 Olympic Games at St Louis? A: USA
Q: What central London street is famous for containing the main government offices? A: Whitehall
Q: "Who wrote ""Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures""?" A: Mary Baker Eddy
Q: What type of building is famous in Milan, Venice, Florence, Seville, Paris, Chartres, Amiens, Rheims, Cologne, Mainz and Trves? A: Cathedral
Q: In bridge, the four players are referred to as what? A: North, East, South and West
Q: An opthalmologist treats disorders of what part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: """Choo choo"" is a child's name for what?" A: Railway engine
Q: What word means the energy and strength for continuing to do something over a long period of time? A: Stamina
Q: At which cricket ground, in 1953, did England win the Ashes for the first time since 1933? A: The Oval
Q: What is the name of the sand bank in the North Sea between Britain and Denmark that is famous as a fishing ground? A: Dogger Bank
Q: Who was the last head of state of the USSR, serving from 1988 until 1991, and the only Soviet leader to have been born after the October Revolution of 1917? A: Gorbachev
Q: Who was the mother of Marie Antoinette, wife of Louis XIV of France? A: Maria Theresa of Austria
Q: Where is Ho Chi Minh City? A: Vietnam
Q: "Which sport is played by two teams of four players each on a rectangular sheet of ice, whereby teams take turns sliding heavy, polished granite stones towards the ""house"" while two sweepers with brooms accompany each one to help direct them to their resting place?" A: Curling
Q: "What 19th century English draughtsman became known for illustrations of ""exquisite decoration, morbidity and decadence"", especially his illustrations for ""The Rape of the Lock""?" A: Aubrey Beardsley
Q: "What is meant by ""persona non grata""?" A: An unwelcome person
Q: A test developed in 1924 by R.L. Smith & G.E. Sandland at Vickers Ltd as an alternative to the Brinell method, is used to measure what? A: The hardness of materials
Q: With which sport is Michael Schumacher associated? A: Motor racing
Q: Between 1955 and 1970, Rosa Parks, Martin Luther King and Angela Davis were significant people in which movement in the USA? A: Civil Rights Movement
Q: Which TV series follows Simon Baker as Patrick Jane, an independent consultant for the California Bureau of Investigation in Sacramento, California, who solves serious crimes by using his skills of observation? A: The Mentalist
Q: What is the name for the order of insects with 2 membranous, usually transparent, wings such as mosquitoes, house flies and gnats? A: Diptera
Q: Kingston is the capital of which country? A: Jamaica
Q: What are the sculptures at the foot of Nelson's column in Trafalgar Square, London? A: Lions
Q: The final of which sport at the 1900 Olympics in Paris attracted 6,000 spectators, the largest crowd at any event at that Olympics? A: Rugby Union
Q: What example of a clipper ship built in 1869 is preserved in a dry dock at Greenwich, London? A: Cutty Sark
Q: What was the surname of the US president known as JFK? A: Kennedy
Q: What was the title of Graham Norton's autobiography, published in 2004? A: So Me
Q: What is the number of points required to win a game of Canasta? A: 5,000
Q: Passiflora edulis, a vine native to South America, is also called passionfruit, maracuj or maracuy in South America, lilikoi in Hawaii and by what name in South Africa? A: Granadilla
Q: Cimarron County, Texas County and Beaver County are all in the north west of which US state? A: Oklahoma
Q: "Who sings: ""But with nothing to consider they forget my name. They call me 'Hell', They call me 'Stacey', They call me 'her', They call me 'Jane', That's not my name""?" A: The Ting Tings
Q: Which cup was originally known as the Royal Yacht Squadron Cup, the RYS Cup for One Hundred Sovereigns, the One Hundred Guinea(s) Cup and the Queens Cup? A: The Americas Cup
Q: What is the name for the animals found in a region? A: Fauna
Q: The refugee camps Shatila and Shabra, the scenes of a massacre in 1982, were in which country? A: Lebanon
Q: What name is given to someone who enforces racing rules and regulations at many types of race track? A: Steward
Q: "Which film musical ends with ""Eliza? Where are my slippers?""" A: My Fair Lady
Q: When was the revolver, a hand gun with a rifled barrel and a revolving cartridge cylinder, invented? A: 1835
Q: What is the name of the former island in the East End of London that is bounded on three sides by one of the largest meanders in the River Thames, with the West India Docks to the north? A: Isle of Dogs
Q: Traditionally, what is the topping for a shepherd's pie? A: Potato
Q: "In her ""Adventures in Wonderland"", where did Alice first meet the Mad Hatter, the March Hare and the Dormouse?" A: A tea party
Q: The panama hat originated in which country? A: Ecuador
Q: "Which French playwright, writing in the 20th century, produced ""Les Parents Terribles"", ""Les Monstres Sacrs"" and ""Les Chevaliers de la Table Ronde""?" A: Jean Cocteau
Q: What is the name of the London theatre named after a mineral spring discovered in 1683 when a music house was built there? A: Sadler's Wells
Q: What is the world's second largest continent? A: Africa
Q: What instrument is used to measure the specific gravity (or relative density) of liquids such as beer and wine? A: Hydrometer
Q: King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the 9th king of the House of Chakri, became the longest reigning current monarch in the world during his reign of which country from 1946? A: Thailand
Q: Henry Cooper is associated with which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Pepys, Wesley, Evelyn and Greville have what famous items in common? A: Diaries
Q: Granite is an example of what sort of rock? A: Igneous
Q: "What is meant by ""vox populi""?" A: The voice of the people
Q: Who would use a creel? A: Fisherman
Q: "Which film was banned for 8 years in the Republic of Ireland and for a year in Norway, and was marketed in Sweden as '""The film so funny that it was banned in Norway""?" A: Monty Python's Life of Brian
Q: What is the official name of the spectator area at Wimbledon at the side of No. 1 Court known as Henman Hill or Murray Mound? A: Aorangi Terrace
Q: ABBA named a song after which battle? A: Waterloo
Q: "Who used the pseudonym ""Bab""?" A: W S Gilbert
Q: """Braeburn"" is a variety of what?" A: Apple
Q: What is a tabular display of the chemical elements, the invention of which is generally credited to Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869, who intended the table to illustrate recurring trends in the properties of the elements? A: Periodic table
Q: "In the TV series ""Boston Legal"", who played the character of Denny Crane?" A: William Shatner
Q: What is the name for playing the notes of a chord in sequence rather than all together? A: Arpeggio
Q: Which country gained its independence from Australia on 16 September 1975? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: What is changed at Buckingham Palace regularly, that is a tourist attraction? A: The guard
Q: "What is the ""national"" and ""first official"" language of The Republic of Ireland?" A: Irish
Q: Where was the landing of the main invasion force on the Italian peninsula in World War II by the allied army (comprising the U.S. Fifth Army and the British Eighth Army) on 9 September 1943? A: Salerno
Q: Who was the spouse of Queen Margrethe II of Denmark when she ascended to the throne on 14 January 1972? A: Prince Henrik
Q: Which country launched an attack against the US naval base at Pearl Harbour in 1941? A: Japan
Q: A Shiite terrorist group founded by Masan Sabbah in 1090 dedicated to the murder of enemy leaders led to which word in the English language? A: Assassin
Q: What country co-hosted the Euro 2008 soccer competition with Switzerland? A: Austria
Q: Which Bulgarian-born artist is famous for wrapping landmarks and landscapes in fabric? A: Christo
Q: What colour is the dye made from woad? A: Blue
Q: The first time that Roger Bannister ran under 4 minutes for a mile at an international meeting was at the 1954 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Vancouver, B.C. Which country was he representing? A: England
Q: A cummerbund is worn on which part of the body? A: Waist
Q: What is the oldest and southernmost city in Russia, with 7 miles of city wall? A: Derbent
Q: In which country did student protest leader Steve Biko die while in police custody in 1977? A: South Africa
Q: "In what sport is ""touch"" said to signify that an opponent has scored a hit?" A: Fencing
Q: If the numbers from 1 to 10 are mutiplied by each other, what is the last number of the result? A: 0
Q: The success of which English rock band formed in Manchester in 1982 was based on the songwriting partnership of Morrissey (vocals) and Johnny Marr (guitar), with the rhythm section of Andy Rourke (bass) and Mike Joyce (drums)? A: The Smiths
Q: What is the capital of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada? A: St John's
Q: How many different Kings of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland were there between 1840 and 1900? A: None
Q: The rules for which sport were originally drawn up by the Knickerbocker Club in New York in 1843? A: Baseball
Q: What does the Roman Catholic Church collectively call Baptism, Confirmation, Marriage, Penance, Ordination, Eucharist and Extreme Unction? A: Sacraments
Q: Which Indian won a Nobel Prize in 1969? A: Mother Teresa
Q: How was Marie Antoinette killed? A: Guillotined
Q: "What character was played by Ronnie Barker in the TV series ""Open All Hours""?" A: Arkwright
Q: What is the term for playing a piece of music in a key other that in which it is written? A: Transposition
Q: What word means the type of movement by normally walking on the soles of the feet? A: Plantigrade
Q: In what year did competition for the Davis Cup begin? A: 1900
Q: Which drummer was the band leader for his wife, Pearl Bailey? A: Louie Bellson
Q: Which African country was never formally colonized, and resisted all kinds of European rule until 1920? A: Somalia
Q: What Royal residence in London, originally part of St James's Palace, was used as the London residence of Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh from 1949 to 1952? A: Clarence House
Q: "In rhyming slang, what is ""to talk a lot""?" A: Rabbit
Q: "What law is ""the volume of a given mass of gas at a given temperature is inversely proportional to its pressure""?" A: Boyle's law
Q: Where is the world's oldest surviving bowling green, with the first recorded use being in 1299? A: Southampton, England
Q: "Among the works of which English landscape painter are ""The Fighting Temeraire"" and ""The Sun of Venice Going to Sea""?" A: Turner
Q: Who was the first elected female head of state in Africa? A: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
Q: "On the Isle of Man, the ""House of Keys"" is concerned with what?" A: Government
Q: In 1932 the Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd unified with the regions of Al-Hasa and Qatif to form which country? A: The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Q: According to the Bible, the descendants of Noah tried to erect which construction against the will of God, who destroyed the plan by making the builders talk a variety of languages? A: Tower of Babel
Q: Composer Arcangelo Corelli (1653 - 1713) is associated with which instrument? A: Violin
Q: "What church, known as ""the Irvingites"" mainly due to the preaching of Edward Irving, was founded in Scotland in 1832?" A: Catholic Apostolic Church
Q: During the American Civil War, what city was the capital of the Confederacy? A: Richmond, Virginia
Q: "What does ""bona fides"" mean?" A: Good faith
Q: What is the largest and first discovered (by Piazzi at Palermo in 1801) of the minor planets? A: Ceres
Q: English is a subsidiary official language of India: what is the main official language? A: Hindi
Q: Most elite high jumpers used the Straddle technique, Western Roll, Eastern cut-off or Scissors-Jump until the development of which technique, when its inventor's gold medal in the 1968 Summer Olympics brought it to the world's attention? A: The Fosbury flop
Q: How many ways can a batsman be dismissed in cricket? A: 10
Q: Carlos Menem was the president of which country from 8 July 1989 to 10 December 1999? A: Argentina
Q: What was the name of the literary coterie that met regularly around 1750 that included Mrs Vesey, Mrs Ord, Mrs Elizabeth Montagu, Elizabeth Carter, Mrs Hester Chapone and Benjamin Stillingfleet? A: Blue stockings
Q: "What weather condition can cause a ""whiteout""?" A: Blizzard
Q: Which brass musical instrument has a slide mechanism that enables the sounding length of the tube to be adjusted? A: Trombone
Q: What is the capital of Sri Lanka? A: Sri Jayawardenapura-Kotte
Q: "After public outrage over a painting by Goya of a nude woman (""the first totally profane life-size female nude in Western art""), he refused to paint clothes on her, and created a new painting of the same woman in the same pose, clothed. The paintings are known as ""The Nude ... "" what and ""The Clothed ..."" what?" A: Maja
Q: Who was the last king of France? A: Louis XVIII
Q: "What is the French equivalent of the word ""mister""?" A: Monsieur
Q: Which British musical, based on a TV show and noted for its profanity, irreverent treatment of Judeo-Christian themes and surreal images such as tap-dancing Ku Klux Klan members, ran for 609 performances in London to February 2005 winning 4 Laurence Olivier Awards, and made its New York City debut in January 2008 at Carnegie Hall, starring Harvey Keitel? A: Jerry Springer: The Opera
Q: Whose 4 sons were an astronomer, a botanist, an army engineer who went on scientific explorations, and the head of a scientific instrument manufacturing company? A: Charles Darwin
Q: What is the name of the hall in which meetings of the Salvation Army are held? A: Citadel
Q: How many countries have ever entered teams in the Olympic Rugby Union competitions? A: 7
Q: In which country is the region of Aragon? A: Spain
Q: What amorphous form of graphite or pure carbon is used mainly as a lubricant for machinery? A: Blacklead
Q: Who was the Archbishop of Canterbury when women were first ordained as priests into the Church of England? A: George Carey
Q: In which country is the city and naval base of Cadiz? A: Spain
Q: What is the name given to horse racing over hedges, ditches and other obstacles set on a regular course? A: Steeplechase
Q: "Which 17th century composer wrote the opera ""L'Orfeo""?" A: Claudio Monteverdi
Q: "John Williams said to Steven Spielberg, ""You need a better composer than I am for this film"" and got the reply ""I know. But they're all dead!"" What was the film?" A: Schindler's List
Q: In athletics, what name is used for the preliminary races that precede quarter-finals or semi-finals? A: Heats
Q: Which of the five Great Lakes of North America is the only one that does not border the US state of Michigan? A: Ontario
Q: Which of earth's oceans holds the most water? A: The Pacific Ocean
Q: Which city was hit by a 7.5 Mw earthquake about 160 km northeast of it, centred in the Motagua Fault, on 4 February 1976 at 3.01 am, local time, killing 23,000 and injuring 76,000? A: Guatemala City, Guatemala.
Q: "Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone caused controversy in July 2009 by praising whom because he ""got things done""?" A: Adolf Hitler
Q: "The MacRobertson International Shield, competed for by Australia, Great Britain, New Zealand and the United States and known affectionately as ""the MacRob"", is the premier event in the world for which sport?" A: Croquet
Q: After being called various names including the Congo Free State, Belgian Congo and Congo-Lopoldville, what was the (now) Democratic Republic of the Congo known as? A: Zaire
Q: Rachel Hunter, model and Rod Stewart's ex wife, posed nude for which magazine in 2004? A: Playboy
Q: According to the Bible, who were Balthazar, Melchior and Caspar? A: Three wise men
Q: "The technology industry centre known as ""Silicon Valley"" is in which state of the USA?" A: California
Q: Octavian and Antony defeated Brutus and Cassius in 42BC near which city in East Macedonia? A: Philippi
Q: Who, from 1940 to 1949 was Jane Wyman's third husband? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: Which country has hosted the greatest number of world curling championships (of any kind: men's, women's and mixed championships) between 1959 and 2015? A: Canada
Q: Which part of the body is made up of a series of vertebra? A: Backbone
Q: Where is the International Gemological Institute and the World Diamond Centre, which play an important role in setting standards, regulating professional ethics, training and promoting the interests of the city as a centre of the diamond industry? A: Antwerp
Q: In England, what word refers to a parish constable of the Anglican Church, often charged with duties of charity? A: Beadle
Q: The invention of what sport is credited to Dr. S. A. Naismith in Massachusetts, USA, in 1891? A: Basketball
Q: What is a group of stars called? A: Constellation
Q: In the 1908 Olympics, Jay Gould from the USA won a gold medal for competing in which sport? A: Jeu de Paume
Q: Which actor was married to actress Joan Plowright? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: Who was Mr Ed's owner in the TV series featuring a talking horse? A: Wilbur
Q: What was the name of the bottlenose dolphin who became famous in 1955-56 for playing with the children of the small town of Opononi, New Zealand, and performing with beach balls and bottles? A: Opo
Q: Which European city is built at the mouth of the river Tagus? A: Lisbon
Q: In 1885, who was the first person to attach a petrol fuelled internal combustion engine to a bicycle at Bad Cannstadt near the River Neckar? A: Gottlieb Daimler
Q: Geoff Hunt, Jahangir Khan and Ross Norman were the only World Open Champions in the first ten years that the Championships were held, in which sport? A: Squash
Q: "How many adjectives are there in the following sentence: ""The tall old man in a smart black suit hit the little green car with a long red stick""?" A: 8
Q: Leonardo di Caprio played multi-millionaire Howard Hughes in which film? A: The Aviator
Q: Rod Blagojevich was alleged to have solicited personal benefit in exchange for an appointment to the US Senate after Barack Obama resigned because he had been elected President of the USA. He was the Governor of which US state? A: Illinois
Q: Which alpine ski racer was World Cup champion in 1967 and 1968, won the Triple Crown of Alpine Skiing with a sweep of the three gold medals for downhill, giant slalom and slalom at the 1968 Winter Olympics, and then retired? A: Jean-Claude Killy
Q: "What is another name for ""lateral epicondylitis""?" A: Tennis elbow
Q: Which state of the USA, initially called New Connecticut, declared independence in 1777, issued its own coinage 1785-1788, exchanged ambassadors with France, the Netherlands and the USA, and in 1791 joined the US Federal union as the 14th state? A: Vermont
Q: In 1828 Casparus van Houten Sr. patented a hydraulic press that revolutionised the production of what? A: Chocolate
Q: "Who said, at a critical time in the history of inventions, ""Mr Watson, come here - I want you""?" A: Alexander Graham Bell
Q: What is the name of the daughter of Ginger Spice (Geri Halliwell), born in 2006? A: Bluebell Madonna
Q: Who uses a petri dish? A: Scientist
Q: What is the name of the raised bumps that cover the striking area of a table tennis bat? A: Pimples
Q: What sort of fish is in the Scandinavian dish called gravlax? A: Salmon
Q: The Basque country is centred mainly around which mountain range? A: Pyrenees
Q: The River Don flows 1,325 miles from near Tula, Russia, to which sea? A: Sea of Azov
Q: What was a Roman name for France? A: Gallia
Q: Who has been engaged to US tennis player Jimmy Connors and married to British tennis player John Lloyd, Olympic downhill skier Andy Mill and Australian golfer Greg Norman? A: Chris Evert
Q: Wick and Thurso are towns in the far north of which country? A: Scotland
Q: What name is given to a young whale? A: Calf
Q: By the 15th century, coffee was known in the Middle East, Persia, Turkey, and northern Africa. It first arrived in Europe in the area covered by what modern day country? A: Italy
Q: Which film about figure skaters starred Jon Heder and Will Ferrell? A: Blades of Glory
Q: Who carried out his early experiments at Villa Grifone, Bologna, Italy, with his brother Alfonso? A: Guglielmo Marconi
Q: "Hattie McDaniel, an American actress, was the first black performer to win an Academy Award, in 1939 for Best Supporting Actress for her role of ""Mammy"" in which film?" A: Gone with the Wind
Q: The CN Tower which in 1975 became the world's tallest free-standing structure on land is part of the skyline of which city? A: Toronto
Q: Who was Ron Hextall playing for when, on 8 December 1987, in a game against the Boston Bruins, he became the first goaltender in NHL history to score a goal by actually shooting the puck into an open net? A: Philadelphia Flyers
Q: Who was the youngest First Lady of the USA? A: Frances Cleveland
Q: "What is the relationship between the words ""left"" (the opposite of right) and ""left"" (the past tense of ""leave"")?" A: Homonyms
Q: "What is the title of an American comedy-drama presented mostly as the daydreams of Dr. John ""J.D."" Dorian, that follows the lives of employees of Sacred Heart, a teaching hospital?" A: Scrubs
Q: What is the medical term for abnormally low body temperature? A: Hypothermia
Q: What is the real first name of the pop star Madonna? A: Madonna
Q: What is the name of cities in Argentina and Spain that are both capitals of provinces of the same name? A: Cordoba
Q: """A man, a plan, a canal, Panama!"" is an example of what?" A: Palindrome
Q: Because of the speed at which the earth and the moon move relative to the sun, a total solar eclipse can never last more than how long? A: 7 minutes 31 seconds
Q: "Historian Richard B. Morris, in his book ""Seven Who Shaped Our Destiny"" (1973), identified Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, John Jay, James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton as the key what?" A: Founding Fathers
Q: What is the name of Joseph Heller's best known novel? A: Catch 22
Q: Artists William Harnett, Annibale Carracci, Abraham van Beyeren, Juan Snchez Cotn, Jean-Baptiste-Simon Chardin, Vincent van Gogh, Edouard Manet, Fernand Lger, Georges Braque, Giorgio Morandi, Paul Czanne and Pablo Picasso have all painted what style of painting? A: Still life
Q: Which company, founded in 1950, was the world's first independent credit card company? A: Diners Club
Q: George Heppelwhite is famous for making what in the 18th century? A: Furniture
Q: Which item of clothing was named after an American women's rights and temperance advocate? A: Bloomers
Q: Trypanosomiasis is an infectious disease spread by what? A: Tsetse fly
Q: The islands of Skye and Mull are in which island group? A: Hebrides
Q: Which country dominated basketball at the Olympics, winning all the gold medals in the men's competition from 1936 to 1968 and, from when women's competition started in 1976, won the silver medal at the 1976 Olympics, a bronze medal in 1992, and a gold medal in all the other years? A: USA
Q: With what was Edith Head, who was nominated for 35 Oscars (including every year from 1948 to 1966), associated? A: Costume design
Q: Who has been quoted as saying People say graffiti is ugly, irresponsible and childish... but that's only if it's done properly? A: Banksy
Q: What was the life expectancy of someone who contracted the bubonic plague, the most commonly seen form during the Black Death that peaked in Europe between 1348 and 1350, which had a mortality rate of thirty to seventy-five percent? A: 8 days
Q: What is the study of the relation between the motion of a body and the forces acting on it? A: Dynamics
Q: What is the last in the series that begins: St. Louis, Oklahoma City, Amarillo, Gallup (New Mexico), Flagstaff (Arizona)? A: San Bernardino
Q: What 1939 film starred Vivien Leigh as Scarlett O'Hara? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: Mount Fujiyama is in what country? A: Japan
Q: According to Jacobus de Voragine's Golden Legend, who, in Silene, Libya, saved a princess from a dragon by capturing it, and led it to the king, promising to kill it if his people converted to Christianity? A: Saint George
Q: Olympic gold medallists Gaetan Boucher, Donovan Bailey and Alex Baumann represented which country? A: Canada
Q: Which 16th century dramatist wrote plays for the Earl of Nottingham's company? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: Which country entered 129 archers in the first Olympic archery event in 1900, and has competed in archery at the Olympic Games the most times (12 of the 14 possible)? A: France
Q: "Complete the title of a book by Doctor Benjamin Spock: ""The Common Sense Book of ...""?" A: Baby and Child Care
Q: Which pantomime is about the Lord Mayor of London? A: Dick Whittington
Q: """Goggle box"" is a British term for what?" A: Television
Q: Before 1991, Slovenia was part of which country? A: Yugoslavia
Q: "Who began directing with ""Grand Theft Auto"" (1977) and won his first Best Director Oscar for ""A Beautiful Mind"" (2001)?" A: Ron Howard
Q: "In August/September 2006, who replaced up to 500 copies of Paris Hilton's debut CD Paris in 48 different UK record stores with his own cover art and remixes by Danger Mouse, with track titles such as ""Why am I Famous?"", ""What Have I Done?"" and ""What Am I For?""?" A: Banksy
Q: What is the fifth letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Epsilon
Q: What important discovery was made in 1964 by radio astronomers Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson? A: Cosmic microwave background radiation
Q: Of the 12 Winter Olympics between 1924 and 1976 inclusive, how many were held outside of Europe? A: 3
Q: Where in London was the first Globe Theatre built in 1599? A: Bankside, Southwark
Q: Cricketer W G Grace, a first-class cricketer from 1865 to 1908, was a member of what profession? A: Doctor
Q: "Sir Edwin Henry Landseer's painting ""Monarch of the Glen"" featured what animal?" A: Deer
Q: What tourist facility, occupying more than 85 acres, opened in Anaheim, California, in 1955? A: Disneyland
Q: What retail chain is named after a character from Herman Melville's book Moby Dick? A: Starbucks
Q: What is a frog before it matures? A: Tadpole
Q: Who set a water speed record of 225.6 m.p.h. at Coniston Water in September 1956? A: Donald Campbell
Q: "Who released the album ""Rockferry"" in 2008, that contained the singles ""Mercy"", ""Warwick Avenue"" and ""Rain on Your Parade""?" A: Duffy
Q: Which city, rebuilt in the Art Deco style after being largely razed by an earthquake in 1931, has become recognized as architecturally unique, and in 2007 was nominated for UNESCO World Heritage Site status? A: Napier, New Zealand
Q: What is the name of the celebration held for a man shortly before his wedding? A: Stag night
Q: The London market at Smithfield deals in what? A: Meat
Q: Where was the 2008 Ryder Cup competition held? A: Valhalla Golf Club
Q: In 1979, Lord Louis Mountbatten was killed when a IRA bomb exploded where? A: On his boat
Q: "What does the Russian word ""Sputnik"" mean?" A: Fellow traveller
Q: "Who recorded the duet ""Especially For You"" in 1988?" A: Kylie Minogue and Jason Donovan
Q: Which 1957 film directed by David Lean was the story of the construction and demolition of a civil engineering work in Burma? A: The Bridge On The River Kwai
Q: What is the name of the reverse image on film, from which a photograph is printed? A: Negative
Q: What was the main form of transport used by the Japanese army in their invasion of Singapore in World War II? A: Bicycles
Q: The oldest woman Olympic gold medalist is Queenie Newall, at London in 1908, when 53 years old. In which sport did she compete? A: Archery
Q: "What is the last name of ""Ellen""?" A: DeGeneres
Q: Which was the first of these four to be an Olympic 100 metres winner? A: Harold Abrahams
Q: Which British journalist has written biographies of Princess Diana, Monica Lewinsky, David and Victoria Beckham, Madonna, and Tom Cruise? A: Andrew Morton
Q: Thomas Beckett was murdered in which Cathedral? A: Canterbury
Q: "In the ""Harry Potter"" books, students board the train to Hogwarts at Platform 9+34. Which London railway station has erected a sign at a wall between tracks 9 and 10 to commemorate this?" A: King's Cross
Q: France's third longest border, after Spain and Switzerland, is with which country? A: Belgium
Q: In the US presidential election, 2000, in which US state was there a controversy over requests for hand recounts of votes that went as far as the U.S. Supreme Court? A: Florida
Q: Presidents of the USA Richard Nixon and Herbert Hoover had what religious upbringing? A: Quaker
Q: What describes a bathroom connected to a bedroom? A: En suite
Q: Sacr-Cur Basilica is in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Which play by John Osborne features a character called Archie Rice, a part written for Laurence Olivier, who played it on stage and in a 1960 film version? A: The Entertainer
Q: Amelia Earhart is famous for what area of activity? A: Aviation
Q: According to the Bible's Book of Genesis, the Five Cities of the Plain near the Dead Sea were Adimah, Zebolim, Zour, Gomorrah and which other? A: Sodom
Q: Frank Langella and Anthony Hopkins have both played which historical character? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who won the Hockey Champions Challenge for Women played in Cape Town, South Africa, in 2009? A: New Zealand
Q: "What is the Spanish word for ""house""?" A: Casa
Q: In 1949 the inaugural tournament of the Thomas Cup, the most important men's badminton team competition in the world, was won by competitors from which country? A: Malaya
Q: The membership of which British intellectual socialist group formed in London in 1884 included George Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, Virginia Woolf, Ramsay MacDonald, Emmeline Pankhurst and Bertrand Russell? A: The Fabian Society
Q: Which gas is likely to be present in a light bulb? A: Argon
Q: Carl Lewis won Olympic gold medals at 4 Olympic Games in 4 different events, including the 4x100m relay. He did not win gold for one of these sports. Which one? A: High jump
Q: "The Clipper ship ""Dunedin"" caused excitement when it arrived in London after a 98 day voyage in 1882. Where had it come from?" A: New Zealand
Q: Who adopted Ziggy Stardust as an on-stage identity? A: David Bowie
Q: What is the name for the study of the advent and evolution of biological systems in the universe, with particular emphasis on the possibility of non-terrestrial life? A: Astrobiology
Q: What legendary island is said to have sunk? A: Atlantis
Q: When is International Women's Day? A: 8 March
Q: What sport involves pockets, spots and rests? A: Snooker
Q: What was signed to end World War I? A: The Treaty of Versailles
Q: Who holds the record for having received the most Grammy awards?. A: Sir Georg Solti
Q: Which Olympic Games were the first to be telecast worldwide? A: Tokyo, 1964
Q: What ceremony is sometimes called obsequies? A: Funeral
Q: Which village, now a suburb of Dublin, was famed for an annual rowdy fair that was held between 1204 and 1855? A: Donnybrook
Q: "Who brought together dramatist W. S. Gilbert and composer Arthur Sullivan and nurtured their collaboration on 13 operas from ""Trial by Jury"" (1875) to ""The Grand Duke, or The Statutory Duel"" (1896)?" A: Richard D'Oyly Carte
Q: What name did Pol Pot give to the ideology that he forced on the people of Democratic Kampuchea? A: Year Zero
Q: Which sewing machine company has held a patent on the mechanism that creates the blanket stitch since its introduction in 1877 (the most recent patent renewal was in 2007), and is involved in litigation with several Chinese firms who are accused of violating their intellectual property rights? A: Merrow
Q: Godtfred Kirk Christiansen is credited with inventing what? A: Lego
Q: What glands produce adrenaline and cortisol? A: Suprarenal
Q: "Which dictator was known as ""Il Duce""?" A: Mussolini
Q: What has been awarded to the winners of the Super Bowl since 1967? A: Vince Lombardi Trophy
Q: Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI) is the collective name for a number of activities to search for extra-terrestrial life using scientific methods to search for what, specifically? A: Electromagnetic transmissions
Q: Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine are associated with what? A: Fashion
Q: Bondi Beach is near which city? A: Sydney
Q: Who was the only golfer in the President's Cup tournament held at San Francisco in 2009 to win all 5 of his matches? A: Tiger Woods
Q: What book was published by Immanuel Kant in 1781? A: The Critique of Pure Reason
Q: According the Bible, who was the cousin of Mordecai? A: Esther
Q: In 1980, Nikolai Andrianov (USSR/RUS) broke the record for being awarded the most Olympic medals (15) ever. What was his sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: "Which American rock band from New Jersey, formed in 2001, consisting of Gerard Way, Mikey Way, Frank Iero, Ray Toro and Bob Bryar, released the albums ""I Brought You My Bullets, You Brought Me Your Love"", ""Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge"", and ""The Black Parade""?" A: My Chemical Romance
Q: What is the maximum number of people that make up the supreme council of the Roman Catholic Church, the College of Cardinals? A: 70
Q: Where is the Bagram air base? A: Afghanistan
Q: T E Lawrence was known as Lawrence of where? A: Arabia
Q: In international flag signalling code, what is a rectangular flag centred with a white square? A: "The letter ""P"""
Q: Who is the city of Charleston, the capital of South Carolina, named after? A: King Charles II of England
Q: According to legend, who was the sweetheart of Robin Hood? A: Maid Marian
Q: In June 2009 it was announced that the rats on Rat Island had finally been eradicated, 229 years after a Japanese shipwreck caused an infestation. Where is Rat Island? A: Alaska
Q: What was heavyweight boxer Joe Louis' nickname? A: The Brown Bomber
Q: What is a Mohammedan sect which reveres Ali, cousin of Muhammad, believing him to be Muhammad's rightful successor? A: Shiite
Q: The greater part of Lake Maggiore is in which country? A: Italy
Q: What was an American post-World War II art movement baginning in New York City that was the first specifically American movement to achieve worldwide influence? A: Abstract expressionism
Q: In 1978, Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro was found dead where? A: In the boot of a car
Q: The Principia Mathematica, a three-volume work on the foundations of mathematics published in 1910, 1912 and 1913, with a second edition In 1927, was co-written by Bertrand Russell and who else? A: Alfred North Whitehead
Q: The Society for the Prevention of an Unwholesome Diet was a 19th century activist group dedicated to keeping what out of Britain? A: Potatoes
Q: Seattle Grace Hospital is the setting for which TV series? A: Gray's Anatomy
Q: Who was crowned King of Scotland in 1306 and defeated the forces of Edward II at Bannockburn in 1314? A: Robert Bruce
Q: Prior to its independence in 1964, the Mediterranean island of Malta belonged to which country? A: Great Britain
Q: What is another name for pain in one or more nerves? A: Neuralgia
Q: In 1908, the winners of the Gordon Bennett Cup in ballooning set a world record of 73 hours aloft that would stand until 1995. What nationality were they? A: Swiss
Q: Harry Houdini became famous as what? A: Magician
Q: "Cybill Shepherd and Bruce Willis starred as Madeline ""Maddie"" Hayes and David Addison in which TV series (1985 to 1989) that revolved around cases investigated by Blue Moon Detective Agency?" A: Moonlighting
Q: Where, since 1903, has been the headquarters of British polo, where polo is no longer staged since the polo fields were compulsorily purchased to build council housing? A: Hurlingham
Q: The Himalayas are on which continent? A: Asia
Q: Where did Adolf Hitler spend his last days in Berlin? A: Bunker
Q: What is the sum of the digits of the product of any number between 1 & 9 multiplied by 9? A: 9
Q: Who is the next in this series: Laue (1914), W. L. Bragg / W. H. Bragg (1915), Barkla (1917), Planck (1918), Stark (1919), Guillaume (1920) ... ? A: Albert Einstein
Q: "What, according to John Lennon, ""is just what happens to you, while you're busy making other plans""?" A: Life
Q: What is the name for the chemical signals that trigger a natural response in another member of the same species that affect behaviour or physiology? A: Pheromones
Q: "Which 20th century Irish playwright wrote ""Juno and the Paycock"", ""The Plough and the Stars"", ""Silver Tassie"" and ""Within the Gates""?" A: Sean O'Casey
Q: What is the best known work of Danish-Icelandic sculptor Edvard Eriksen, which he completed in 1913, that sits on a rock in the Copenhagen harbour at Langelinie? A: The Little Mermaid
Q: What word was used by poets and nineteenth-century Irish nationalists in English as a romantic name for Ireland, that is the name sometimes given to the female personification of Ireland? A: Erin
Q: Who was the last of these to win an Oscar? A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: Rugby union was included in 4 Olympic Games between 1900 and 1924. Which team won the most gold medals for it in that period? A: USA
Q: The second longest river in China, the Yellow River, is known locally as what? A: Huang Ho
Q: The British Royal Mint that was established in the Tower of London in 1279 and moved to an adjacent site on Tower Hill in 1809 is now situated where? A: Llantrisant, South Wales
Q: Which country, which is surrounded by South Africa, gained its independence from Britain in 1966? A: Lesotho
Q: "In literature, what is the word for a person, or a group of people who oppose the main character, or the main characters (in simple terms, ""the villain"")?" A: Antagonist
Q: Actor Lloyd Bridges is what relation to actors Beau and Jeff Bridges? A: Father
Q: Which state of the USA has a Union Jack on its state flag? A: Hawaii
Q: Which country was granted its independence from colonial rule on 4 July 1946, after being controlled since 1521 by Spain, Britain, the USA, Japan, and the USA (again)? A: The Philippines
Q: According to the old saying, what doesn't change its spots? A: Leopard
Q: What name is given to art that depicts scenery such as mountains, valleys, trees, rivers, and forests, where sky is almost always included, and weather is usually an element of the composition? A: Landscape
Q: Guitarist Brian Rankin is better known as who? A: Hank Marvin
Q: Persia is the former name of which country? A: Iran
Q: What is Tiger Woods' first name, really? A: Eldrick
Q: "As what does ""vermicelli"" literaly translate from the Italian?" A: Little worms
Q: Dr Benjamin Spock wrote books on what subject? A: Child care
Q: The Hesketh racing team, with its Union Jack Teddy Bear logo, founded by Lord Hesketh and Anthony 'Bubbles' Horsley, had its greatest successes in Formula One when they employed which driver? A: James Hunt
Q: "Whose 2006 album ""Back to Black"" had 6 Grammy Award nominations and five wins, tying the record for the most wins by a female artist in a single night, and made her the first British singer to win 5 Grammys?" A: Amy Winehouse
Q: "How much treacle was there in the nursery rhyme ""Pop! Goes the Weasel""?" A: Half a pound
Q: Oscar Wilde, Adolf Hitler and Jeffrey Archer have all written about their experiences in what? A: Prison
Q: Which British awards for songwriting and composing, a solid bronze sculpture of Euterpe, the Muse of lyric poetry, are named after a Cardiff-born entertainer? A: Ivor Novello Awards
Q: What is a sphygmomanometer used to measure? A: Blood pressure
Q: Where was the first zoo in the United States, which opened on 1 July 1874 with 1,000 animals and an entry fee of 25 cents? A: Philadelphia
Q: What is dried in an oast house? A: Hops
Q: With which sport is Sebastian Loeb associated? A: Car rallying
Q: "Which song by John Mayer, written for the Rob Reiner film ""The Bucket List"", is his highest charting single to date, and won Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the Grammy Awards in 2009?" A: Say
Q: What is a pluviometer used to measure? A: Rainfall
Q: Who was president of the USA at the outbreak of World War I? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Where do the Wombles live? A: Wimbledon Common
Q: In the 1950s, which country on the east coast of the Bay of Bengal was bordered by Pakistan, India, Tibet, China, French Indo China and Siam? A: Burma
Q: The flag of which country, consisting of three horizontal stripes of red, white and blue (almost identical to that of the Netherlands), was first used in 1845 and officially adopted on June 23, 1972? A: Luxembourg
Q: What was a popular international art design movement from 1925 until the 1940s, affecting the decorative arts and industrial design, fashion, painting, the graphic arts, and film, which was, at the time, seen to be elegant, glamorous, functional, and modern? A: Art Deco
Q: "Who organised an Arab revolt against the Turks and wrote ""The Seven Pillars Of Wisdom"" about his experiences?" A: T E Lawrence
Q: "Who did Johnny Depp play in the film ""Public Enemies""?" A: John Dillinger
Q: "Small coloured dots on a squash ball indicate its ""bounciness"". Which colour, introduced in 2000, is the international competition standard?" A: Double-yellow dot
Q: "In which country was ""The Tunguska Event"" on 30 June 1908, believed to have been caused by the air burst of a large meteoroid or comet fragment of 510 kilometres (36 miles) above the Earth's surface?" A: Russia
Q: Normally called a wolverine in North America, what is the largest carniverous mammal in the weasel family, which, it is said, has a habit of hiding articles which are no use to it? A: Glutton
Q: What 2003 film was about a murdered Irish journalist played by Kate Blanchett? A: Veronica Guerin
Q: Which country was controlled by Sweden from 1814 (following the Napoleonic wars) until 1905 when Sweden recognised its independence? A: Norway
Q: "Who played Frank Spencer in the British TV series ""Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em""?" A: Michael Crawford
Q: Until 1965, it was thought that which planet was synchronously tidally locked with the Sun, rotating once for each orbit and keeping the same face directed towards the Sun at all times, in the same way that the same side of the Moon always faces the Earth? A: Mercury
Q: "What airport was known as ""Idlewild Airport"" when planned in the late 1930s, was renamed ""Major General Alexander E. Anderson Airport"" when construction began in 1943, then ""New York International Airport, Anderson Field"" when flights began in 1948, had another name change in 1963?" A: John F. Kennedy International Airport
Q: In which country, following Napoleon's final defeat in 1815 at the Battle of Waterloo, was the monarchy re-established, ending with the Revolution of 1848? A: France
Q: The Equitable Life Assurance Building in New York City, built in 1870, and 130 feet (40 m) high, was the first office building to be equipped with what? A: Passenger elevators
Q: In 1799, who discovered nitrous oxide, that made patients insensible to pain, the first true anaesthetic? A: Sir Humphrey Davy
Q: What does a glazier work with? A: Glass
Q: "In medicine, which suffix denotes ""inflammation of""?" A: -itis
Q: Daley Thompson is an Olympic gold medallist in what sport? A: Decathlon
Q: Who took the role originated by Jodie Foster in films about Hannibal Lechter? A: Julianne Moore
Q: What is a terrifying and disturbing dream? A: Nightmare
Q: What is Donald Duck's middle name? A: Fauntleroy
Q: What items are produced in a darkroom? A: Photographs
Q: In 1498, Vasco da Gama was the first European to reach which area by sea? A: India
Q: What is the seven-branched candlestick, based on the candelabrum that was used in the Temple in Jerusalem in ancient times, that is the national symbol of the State of Israel? A: Menorah
Q: Which scientist has the following geographical features named after him: a sound in Tierra del Fuego, a mountain in the Andes, a sound in British Columbia's Queen Charlotte Islands and an Australian state capital? A: Charles Darwin
Q: Over one third of which state of the USA is in the Arctic Circle? A: Alaska
Q: "Who wrote the book ""Studies in Hysteria"" and ""Interpretation of Dreams""?" A: Sigmund Freud
Q: Broken Arrow, Edmond, Enid, Lawton, Midwest City, Moore, Norman, Stillwater and Tulsa are 9 of the 10 largest cities in which state of the USA? A: Oklahoma
Q: Where is a complex of caves in southwestern France famous for its Paleolithic cave paintings consisting primarily of realistic images of large animals? A: Lascaux
Q: What invention in the 17th century revolutionized mathematics by providing the first systematic link between Euclidean geometry and algebra, describing geometric shapes as algebraic equations involving the coordinates of the points lying on it? A: Cartesian coordinates
Q: Which Frenchman was the first to navigate the St Lawrence River in Canada in 1535? A: Jacques Cartier
Q: The headquarters of the United Nations is in which city? A: New York
Q: What is the inner core of the Earth believed to consist of? A: Iron-nickel alloy
Q: Figure skating was first contested as an Olympic sport at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. There were 5 events: Mens & Ladies singles, Special figures, Mixed pairs, and Ice Dancing. Which country won the most medals (6)? A: Great Britain
Q: James Boswell is best known for his biography of whom? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: Yvette Williams, Mary Rand, Willye White and Kathy McMillan are all medal winners in which Olympic sport? A: Long jump
Q: Who secured the contract from the British government in 1838 to carry mail between Liverpool Halifax and Boston and formed the British and North American Royal Mail Steam Packet Company with 4 ships? A: Samuel Cunard
Q: What name is given to lung-breathing aquatic mammals such as whales, porpoises and dolphins? A: Cetacea
Q: "In Victorian times, what was an item of wardrobe known as a ""stovepipe""?" A: Hat
Q: In 1964, what did University of Oregon grad. student Carolyn Davidson design for $35? A: "The Nike ""swoosh"""
Q: What USA national championship game, played on a Sunday, is the second-largest US food consumption day, after Thanksgiving Day? A: Super Bowl
Q: "According to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who had ""a long grey beard and a glittering eye""?" A: The ancient mariner
Q: "What was the first name of the playwright Williams who wrote ""A Streetcar Named Desire""?" A: Tennessee
Q: What does a spelunker do as a hobby? A: Explore caves
Q: What is the unit of force which, acting upon a mass of 1 gramme, will produce acceleration of 1 centimetre per second per second? A: Dyne
Q: Meerkats are native to which continent? A: Africa
Q: """I Know Him So Well"" is from what musical?" A: Chess
Q: What is the term for a two week period? A: Fortnight
Q: Who founded the Society of Jesus (Jesuits)? A: Ignatius Loyola
Q: Archery was included in the Olympic Games in 1900, 1904, 1908, and 1920, and every time since 1972. Which country has won the most gold medals? A: South Korea
Q: "The phrase ""Mountain Standard Time Zone"" refers to which mountains?" A: Rockies
Q: What is the common name for London's Criminal Court? A: Old Bailey
Q: What name is given to a young goat? A: Kid
Q: What was the first name of the painter Monet? A: Claude
Q: Which German was the first to satisfactorily demonstrate the existence of electromagnetic waves by building an apparatus to produce and detect VHF & UHF radio waves? A: Heinrich Rudolph Hertz
Q: What condition caused by spasm of arterioles and sometimes small veins, results in the formation of small raised areas that are white or red, affecting mainly fingers and toes, which later throb and itch? A: Chilblains
Q: "In ""Kill Bill"", who played the character of Black Mamba?" A: Uma Thurman
Q: Carcinoma is a type of what? A: Cancer
Q: In which sport have Chinese players won the men's World Championship 60% of the time since 1959, and in the women's competition, all but two of the World Championships since 1971? A: Table tennis
Q: Who, in 1916, was the first woman to be elected to the US House of Representatives, the first female member of the Congress, and the only woman to be elected to Congress from Montana? A: Jeannette Rankin
Q: Which item of footwear can be applied to starting up a computer? A: Boot
Q: Which country won the most gold medals for the Olympic Marathon, the first 25 times that it was run (1894 - 2004)? A: Ethiopia
Q: "Which American TV series (2000 to 2004) centred on Winslow High School, a fictional public high school located in Boston, Massachusetts, had the slogan ""Every day is a fight. For respect. For dignity. For sanity.""?" A: Boston Public
Q: What name is given to raised parts of the skin when frightened or cold? A: Goose bumps
Q: """Omnibus"" is a word for a common form of public transport taken directly from Latin. What does it mean?" A: For all
Q: Who, co-founders of the Spartacist League in January 1916, were executed in Berlin in January 1919? A: Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht
Q: In 2009, The Mongoose Bat was introduced into which sport, with the aim of providing 20% more power and 15% more bat speed? A: Cricket
Q: Which company was founded and named after the inventor of vulcanised rubber in 1898, almost 4 decades after his death, by Frank Seiberling? A: Goodyear
Q: Who was Sancho Panza companion to? A: Don Quixote
Q: Which holy book consists of two parts, the Mishnah and the Gemara, the latter of which differs between the Jerusalem and Babylonian versions ? A: The Talmud
Q: Who did Jon Venables and Robert Thompson kidnap from a shopping centre in Bootle, Liverpool on 12 February 1993? A: James Bulger
Q: Traditionally, Presidential elections are held in the USA in which month? A: November
Q: When part of Ireland was given a new constitution in 1937, what name was given to it? A: ire
Q: Geologically speaking, where would you go to stand on land at the southernmost point of the North American continental plate? A: Guatemala
Q: Who first employed his evolving methodology of satyagraha (devotion to the truth), or non-violent protest in 1906 while a lawyer in South Africa during the Indian community's struggle for civil rights to protest against registration laws in the new state of Transvaal? A: Mohandas Ghandi
Q: "Where is ""The Royal Tennis Court"", a ""real tennis"" court built for Henry VIII of England who played there from 1528, that is still home to an active ""real tennis"" club?" A: Hampton Court
Q: What colour does red litmus paper turn when in contact with alkaline? A: Blue
Q: "Who was Mel Gibson's co-star in the ""Lethal Weapon"" series of films?" A: Danny Glover
Q: "Where was the 9 hour amphibious operation on 19 August 1942 that led to the death and injury of 3,369 of 5,000 Canadians and the loss of the ship ""Berkeley"", while German casualties were less than 600?" A: Dieppe
Q: What is the deepest known part of the world's oceans, and the deepest location on the surface of the Earth's crust? A: The Mariana Trench
Q: What did Little Bo Peep lose? A: Sheep
Q: "Bill Bryson called his 2006 autobiography ""The Life and Times of .. "" who?" A: The Thunderbolt Kid
Q: Who was the first driver to complete all 1,100 racing miles (1,800 km), and finish in the top six for both the Indianapolis 500 and the Coca-Cola 600 in the same day (The Double)? A: Tony Stewart
Q: As a first step to manufacturing steel, iron is extracted from ore by removing oxygen and combining it with what element? A: Carbon
Q: "What is a musical term for ""slowing down""?" A: Rallentando
Q: Which sport, that involves running through an obstacle track 253.5 metres long, has major competitions held in Sonkajrvi (Finland) and in the USA in Monona and Minocqua (both in Wisconsin) and Marquette (Michigan)? A: Wife carrying
Q: "In August 1830, the audience were so stirred by a performance of Auber's ""La Muette de Portici"" at their capital's opera house, that it led to what successful fight for independence?" A: The Belgian Revolution
Q: The London market at Billingsgate, now situated close to Canary Wharf in Docklands, London, deals in what? A: Fish
Q: """Let's Get It Started"" (2003) by the Black Eyed Peas was originally recorded with what offensive word in the title, making it unsuitable for play on some radio stations and at sports games?" A: Retarded
Q: Who was the youngest player to appear in a major league game in the modern era, pitching 2/3 of an inning for the Cincinnati Reds against the St. Louis Cardinals in 1944 when not quite 16 years old? A: Joe Nuxhall
Q: Dan Quayle was Vice President to which president of the USA? A: George H Bush
Q: Which 1956 film, filmed in an early version of modern widescreen, starred David Niven and Cantinflas, with guest appearances by Noel Coward, Frank Sinatra, John Gielgud, Buster Keaton and Marlene Deitrich? A: Around The World In 80 Days
Q: "The Mad Hatter in Lewis Carroll's ""Alice in Wonderland"" was stereo-typical of milliners making felt hats, who used what chemical to separate the fur from the pelt and mat it together?" A: Mercury
Q: The Vatican erected a statue inside the Vatican's walls of which person who was convicted by the Catholic Church of heresy in 1633 and sentenced to house arrest for life? A: Galileo
Q: In astronomy, what is the word applied to the alignment of three or more celestial bodies in the same gravitational system along a straight line? A: Syzygy
Q: Nicholas II was the last Emperor of which country until he abdicated following the February Revolution of 1917? A: Russia
Q: "What is a set of table top games simulating team sports such as soccer, cricket, both rugby and hockey, and closely associated with soccer, which for many years was marketed as ""the replica of Association Football""?" A: Subbuteo
Q: "What is the proper term for the # symbol, often referred to as a ""number sign"", ""hash"" or ""pound sign""?" A: Octothorpe
Q: What is the most southerly town in Chile, on the Straits of Magellan? A: Punta Arenas
Q: The stars Betelgeuse, Rigel, Bellatrix, Mintaka, Alnilam, Mintaka, Alnitak, Alnitak and Saiph are found in which constellation? A: Orion
Q: "The word ""Honcho"" comes from what language?" A: Japanese
Q: "Whose hit records include ""Gold Digger"" (feat. Jamie Foxx) ""Stronger"" and ""Heartless""?" A: Kanye West
Q: What is shouted by the first person to have a full card in a game of bingo? A: House
Q: Which British sitcom about the Home Guard in World War II was written by Jimmy Perry and David Croft and broadcast between 1968 and 1977, running for 80 episodes? A: Dads Army
Q: What US policy introduced in 1823, that efforts by European governments to colonise land or interfere with states in the Americas would be viewed by the USA as acts of aggression requiring US intervention, became one of the longest-standing tenets of US foreign policy? A: The Monroe Doctrine
Q: What is the nationality of playwright Henrik Ibsen? A: Norwegian
Q: The Caesars ruled which ancient empire? A: Roman
Q: What did Bayer name its new over the counter drug in 1898, developed and advertised as a morphine substitute and cough suppressant that did not have its addictive side-effects? A: Heroin
Q: "What sport is known as ""the Turf""?" A: Horse racing
Q: Which 1962 film, directed by Tony Richardson from a script by Alan Sillitoe, is about a boy (played by Tom Courtenay) in Borstal and his defiance of the accepted norms of British society? A: The Loneliness Of The Long Distance Runner
Q: English couple Fred and Rosemary West were famous as what? A: Serial killers
Q: "What equation is considered to be remarkable for its ""mathematical beauty"", because 3 basic arithmetic operations occur exactly once each (addition, multiplication, and exponentiation), and it links five fundamental mathematical constants: (the numbers 0, 1, , e, and i)?" A: Euler's identity
Q: What game requires 6 hoops and 2 posts set up on a ground around 35 yards by 28 yards? A: Croquet
Q: What is the championship game of the US National Football League, the premier association of professional American football, that was first played in 1966? A: Super Bowl
Q: Which scholar and lawyer who became Speaker of the House of Commons and Treasurer of the Exchequer was beheaded for treason in 1534 after disagreeing with Henry VIII being head of the church? A: Sir Thomas More
Q: Which Canadian-born bandleader and violinist was inducted into the Canadian Motorsport Hall of Fame in 2002 for his accomplishments in hydroplane racing, such as winning the Gold Cup in 1946 and the Ford Memorial competition in 1948? A: Guy Lombardo
Q: "Which state of the USA calls itself the ""Lone Star State""?" A: Texas
Q: "Which English sculptor's famous works in London are the lions at the British Museum, ""Peter Pan"" in Kensington Gardens and ""Edith Cavell Memorial"" outside the National Portrait Gallery?" A: Sir George Frampton
Q: What is a besom used to do? A: Sweep
Q: In which field is Auguste Escoffier famous? A: Cookery
Q: In September 2009, where was it proposed to castrate paedophiles? A: Poland
Q: What system of musical notation, originating in the 16th century, shows the fingering of notes on a fretted fingerboard? A: Tablature
Q: What system specifies each point uniquely in a plane by a pair of numerical coordinates, which are the signed distances from the point to two fixed perpendicular directed lines? A: A Cartesian coordinate system
Q: Which country was ruled between 1971 and 1986 by Idi Amin, Milton Obote, General Tito Okello and Yoweri Museveni? A: Uganda
Q: Duffel coats were named after a town in which country? A: Belgium
Q: "The term ""Royal Ascot"" is associated with which sport?" A: Horse racing
Q: What is an eye defect due to the abnormal formation of the cornea or lens resulting in an inability to see horizontal and vertical objects clearly, simultaneously? A: Astigmatism
Q: Until the introduction of the Euro on 1 January 2002, which country had the Deutsche Mark as its basic currency unit? A: Germany
Q: The matched grip, Moeller method, Open, Rudiment and Traditional grip are terms used in playing what instrument? A: Drums
Q: Which Scottish ballerina made her international debut in 1941, married Ludovic Kennedy in 1950, appeared in films from 1948 to 1960, and died in 2006? A: Moira Shearer
Q: Where did Malcolm Campbell set a water speed record of 141.74 m.p.h. in 1938? A: Coniston Water
Q: Which team won the inaugural tournament of the Rugby World Cup in 1987, which was hosted by both Australia and New Zealand? A: New Zealand
Q: An impala is a type of what? A: Antelope
Q: Who was the first president of the USA? A: Washington
Q: "In the TV series ""Emmerdale"", how is Zak Dingle related to Chastity Dingle?" A: Uncle
Q: Which city is at the Eastern end of the Trans-Siberian Railway? A: Vladivostok
Q: Lon de Lunden killed 21 of what to win his gold medal at the 1900 Olympic Games? A: Pigeons
Q: What was the name of The Beatles' manager who died from a drug overdose in 1967? A: Brian Epstein
Q: "Which military decoration is awarded to recognize people ""being wounded or killed in any action against an enemy of the United States or as a result of an act of any such enemy or opposing armed forces""?" A: Purple Heart
Q: Where is the Tynwald the legislative body? A: Isle of Man
Q: What shape are the 20 faces of a icosahedron? A: Triangles
Q: "Whose epitaph by Johnson in Westminster Abbey reads in part ""Nihil quod tetigit non ornavit"" (""He touched nothing without adding a lustre to it""?" A: Oliver Goldsmith
Q: Which country was established in 1822 by the American Colonization Society (A.C.S.)? A: Liberia
Q: What coal-fired power station in North Yorkshire, England, near the River Ouse, has the highest generating capacity of any power station in the UK and Western Europe? A: Drax
Q: What specially built city has been the capital of Nigeria since 1991, when it was moved from Lagos? A: Abuja
Q: Who was the only President to have two women attempt to assassinate him - and in the same month? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Alveoli are found in which part of the body? A: Lungs
Q: What was the name of the house where William Wordsworth and his sister lived in Grasmere in the Lake District? A: Dove Cottage
Q: What chemical compound of 1 carbon and 4 hydrogen atoms is the simplest alkane, and the principal component of natural gas? A: Methane
Q: Which Pope was carried off into France by Bonaparte's troops in 1798? A: Pius VI
Q: Mary Baker Eddy founded which religion? A: Christian Science
Q: What is the name for a large gathering of boy scouts? A: Jamboree
Q: Ex-US Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice plays which musical instrument? A: Piano
Q: Who was an American-born Greek soprano opera singer who had a public love affair with Aristotle Onassis? A: Maria Callas
Q: Which country has 6 time zones called Pacific, Mountain, Central, Eastern, Atlantic and Newfoundland? A: Canada
Q: "Which play and film was adapted from a story by Christopher Isherwood and later adapted as the musical and film ""Cabaret""?" A: I Am A Camera
Q: What causes a screeching sound when a live microphone is put too close to a speaker? A: Feedback
Q: Which ancient country to the south west of the Caspian Sea had rulers called Deioces, Phraortes, Cyaxares and Astyages? A: Media
Q: In both Greek and Roman mythology, who was the twin of Castor? A: Pollux
Q: Who is the mother of actors Oliver and Kate Hudson? A: Goldie Hawn
Q: Leopold of Saxe-Coburg was invited to be the first king of what country in 1831 after it gained independence from the Dutch? A: Belgium
Q: What is the longest river in Ireland? A: Shannon
Q: "Which fictional rock band was previously called ""The Originals"", ""The New Originals"", ""The Originals"" again, and the ""The Thamesmen""?" A: Spinal Tap
Q: What motto, coined by Thomas J. Watson while managing the sales and advertising departments at the National Cash Register Company became a motto for IBM? A: Think
Q: What was the first year that the Show Jumping World Championships were held, in Paris? A: 1953
Q: On the Christian calendar, what name is given to the first Sunday after Easter? A: Low Sunday
Q: Where in London is Nelson's column? A: Trafalgar Square
Q: Who discovered the moons of Saturn called Rhea, Iapetus, Dione and Tethys, between 1671 and 1684? A: Cassini
Q: What is hopping from site to site on the internet called? A: Surfing
Q: Which photographer who emigrated to Canada in 1937 is best known for his photographs of the Ottawa region (his picture of floating logs on the Ottawa River was on the 1969-1979 series Canadian $1 bill), and was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 1996? A: Malak Karsh
Q: Where was ex-British Prime Minister Tony Blair born? A: Scotland
Q: In 1588 Francis Drake led the English navy against the Spanish what? A: Armada
Q: Triathlon has been an Olympic sport since the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. Which country has won the most medals in the men's event in the first 3 Olympiads to 2008? A: New Zealand
Q: "Which musical term means ""sweetly""?" A: Dolce
Q: "Jonathan Rhys Meyers, who played Elvis Presley in the TV series ""Elvis"", went on to play Henry VIII in what British TV series?" A: The Tudors
Q: Except for 1978, which team won every World Lacrosse Championship between 1967 and 2002? A: USA
Q: "What was the nickname of the British army regiment called the ""8th King's Royal Irish Hussars""?" A: The Crossbelts
Q: Haile Selassie was the ruler of which country? A: Ethiopia
Q: What is a term for an important person? A: Big cheese
Q: In the 20th century, how many Olympic Games were held in Los Angeles? A: 2
Q: What annual event, held on a Monday for children and their parents, that was started in 1814 by First Lady Dolley Madison in the grounds of the Capitol, Washington DC, USA, is now held on the White House lawn? A: The Easter Egg Roll
Q: "What branch of mathematics was founded from a paper ""On a Characteristic Property of All Real Algebraic Numbers"" (1874) by Georg Cantor, who built on the work of Zeno, Bernard Bolzano & Richard Dedekind, which, in turn was followed up by Bertrand Russell, Ernst Zermelo, Abraham Fraenkel & Henri Lebesgue?" A: Set theory
Q: Alberta is one of two Canadian provinces that is land-locked. What is the other? A: Saskatchewan
Q: What British TV series, that aired between 1967 and 1972 starred Edward Woodward as a reluctant professional killer for a branch of the British Government's intelligence services known as 'the Section', and Russell Hunter as his unwilling assistant ? A: Callan
Q: According to the fairytale, Cinderella's coach was made from what? A: A pumpkin
Q: "The ship ""The Beagle"" became famous for carrying which scientist on a voyage of discovery?" A: Charles Darwin
Q: What is the word for the apparent change in frequency of a vibration due to the relative change in position of the observer? A: Doppler effect
Q: In 1957 the inaugural Uber Cup, the most important women's badminton team competition in the world, was won by competitors from which country? A: USA
Q: In which Canadian province is French the only official language? A: Quebec
Q: "Which song from the 1945 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ""Carousel"" was recorded in 1963 by Gerry & The Pacemakers and became the anthem of Liverpool Football Club?" A: You'll Never Walk Alone
Q: The name of what product, also known as paraffin, a combustible hydrocarbon liquid, was registered as a trademark by Abraham Gesner in 1854? A: Kerosene
Q: Carl Lewis won 9 Olympic gold medals. He won his first in what year? A: 1984
Q: Where did the car manufacturer Saab originate? A: Sweden
Q: In 2009, Michael Perham, at the age of 17 years and 164 days, became the youngest person to do what? A: Sail solo around the world
Q: The first concrete-steel composite arch bridge in the USA that links the states of Nevada and Arizona by spanning the Colorado River is near which other man-made construction? A: Hoover Dam
Q: According to the song, who loved Puff, the magic dragon? A: Little Jackie Paper
Q: What system, available on the internet, was founded by Mark Zuckerberg, Eduardo Saverin, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes? A: Facebook
Q: Which sisters have been romantically linked to Nick Lachey, John Mayer, Tony Romo and Pete Wentz? A: Jessica and Ashlee Simpson
Q: The first act of organised opposition to British rule after the declaration of independence by the Indian National Congress was The Satyagraha, a campaign of nonviolent protest which began with a March to Dandi in March 1930, to protest about tax on what? A: Salt
Q: "What sport is featured in the musical ""The Beautiful Game"" by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Ben Elton?" A: Soccer
Q: """Coronation Street"" is set in what suburb?" A: Weatherfield
Q: What is the dividend of 22 divided by 7? A: 22
Q: In November 1986, US President Ronald Reagan set up the Tower Commission to investigate what? A: The Iran Contra scandal
Q: What is the name of the place where water comes out of the ground? A: Spring
Q: "In 2008, who was nicknamed ""The King of Clay""?" A: Rafael Nadal
Q: "In the 1990 film ""Dick Tracy"", which starred Warren Beatty, Al Pacino, Glenne Headly and Charlie Korsmo, who played the role of ""Breathless Mahoney"", an entertainer at Club Ritz who tries to steal Tracy from Tess Trueheart?" A: Madonna
Q: How did John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Jr., the elder son of US President John F. Kennedy, die in 1999? A: Plane crash
Q: Begun in 1897 and inspired by the success of the first modern-day marathon at the 1896 Olympics, what is the world's oldest annual marathon? A: The Boston Marathon
Q: The Belgian Blue, British White, Canadian Speckle Park, Galloway, Lincoln Red, South Devon, Welsh Black and White Park are all types of what? A: Cattle
Q: "Which 2001 musical film based on the Orphean myth and on Giuseppe Verdi's opera ""La Traviata"" stars Ewan McGregor and Nicole Kidman?" A: Moulin Rouge!
Q: Niagara Falls is between the state of New York, USA, and which province of Canada? A: Ontario
Q: What is one of the deadliest pandemics in history, believed to have first reached Europe at the trading city of Caffa in the Crimea in 1347 and peaking in Europe between 1348 and 1350? A: The Black Death
Q: The chemical messenger that transports signals from one cell to another, called phytohormones in plants, are called what in animals? A: Hormone
Q: In October 2009 it was reported that what were being burnt as fuel at a 'bioenergy' plant in Karlskoga, in the central Sweden to provide heat for the Vrmland region? A: Rabbits
Q: Where is The Rialto bridge? A: Venice
Q: Abyssinian, Balinese, British Shorthair, Birman, Bombay, Burmese, California Spangled, Devon Rex, Egyptian Mau, Himalayan, Japanese Bobtail and Javanese are all breeds of what? A: Cat
Q: The Peasants' Revolt in England in 1381 led by men such as John Ball, Wat Tyler and Jack Straw, and the most extreme and widespread insurrection in English history, was about what? A: Taxation
Q: "Which company ran a promotion entitled ""When the US Wins, You Win"" during the 1984 Olympic Games, where customers scratched off a ticket, and if the US won that event, they would be given a free item from the menu?" A: McDonald's
Q: "What do we know from childhood goes ""twinkle twinkle"", ""up above the sky so high like a diamond in the sky""?" A: Little star
Q: Irish milliner Philip Treacy made the wide-brimmed cream-coloured hat worn by whom at her wedding on 9 April 2005? A: Camilla Parker Bowles
Q: On 19 June 1975, an inquest jury named whom as the murderer of Sandra Rivett, the last time that an inquest was allowed to name the person they suspected of committing such a crime? A: Lord Lucan
Q: What device, a tool for studying astronomical phenomena, uses the fact that when a material is heated to incandescence it emits light that is characteristic of the atomic makeup of the material? A: Spectroscope
Q: The land of Azeroth features in which video game? A: Warcraft
Q: What is the name given to 1 April, which, according to ancient custom, is still marked in many countries by carrying out hoaxes and other practical jokes of varying sophistication? A: April Fools Day
Q: Which character in the comic strip Charlie Brown often carries a cat with her? A: Frieda
Q: Which US President was assassinated by Charles J. Guiteau in the Sixth Street Station of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad in Washington, D.C.? A: James Garfield
Q: "What expression that probably comes from a description of the components of a musket means ""everything""?" A: Lock, stock and barrel
Q: "What complex, once the residence of the Muslim rulers of Granada that became a Christian palace, was ""rediscovered"" in the 19th century and now exhibits Islamic architecture, together with Christian 16th century buildings and gardens?" A: The Alhambra
Q: Who, in 1970, became the first woman during the open era and the second woman ever to win all four Grand Slam singles titles in the same calendar year and became a Pentecostal minister in 1991? A: Margaret Court
Q: What gives mead its sweet taste? A: Honey
Q: "In the USA between 1852 and 1883, who were Reelfoot Williams, Tom Bell, Rattlesnake Dick and Charles Bolles (a.k.a. ""Black Bart"")?" A: Stagecoach robbers
Q: "What is the stage name of Alecia Beth Moore, whose hits include ""There You Go"", ""Stupid Girls"", ""Who Knew"", ""Funhouse""and ""So What""?" A: Pink
Q: What was the last of these Star Wars films to be released? A: Revenge of the Sith
Q: In statistics, what term is applied to techniques for modeling and analysing several variables to understand how the typical value of the dependent variable changes when one of the independent variables is varied, and the other variables are fixed? A: Regression analysis
Q: According to the Bible, which country was hit by ten plagues, including of frogs and locusts? A: Egypt
Q: Who in history is the only divorced wife of someone who later became president of the USA? A: Jane Wyman
Q: A popular vote in Switzerland in November 2009 approved banning the building of what in the country? A: Minarets
Q: Club Atltico Boca Juniors, known simply as Boca Juniors or Boca, a sports club best known for its football team, is based in which country? A: Argentina
Q: "A ""steamer"", that covers the torso and the full length of the arms and legs, is a type of what?" A: Wetsuit
Q: What is the next in this series: 3.1, 95, 98, 98SE, ... A: 2000
Q: Prints of which 1927 silent German expressionist science fiction film directed by Fritz Lang were discovered in Australia, the Museo del Cine in Buenos Aires, Argentina and the National Film Archive of New Zealand, to become the basis for a restoration project for a DVD/BD? A: Metropolis
Q: What kind of gemstones are the Cullinane and the Hope? A: Diamond
Q: Which state of the USA is divided into 64 parishes in the same way that 48 of the other states are divided into counties? A: Louisiana
Q: By what name is actor William Pratt better known? A: Boris Karloff
Q: What organisation was founded in London in July 1961 by English labour lawyer Peter Benenson? A: Amnesty International
Q: Which hormone controls the female reproductive cycle? A: Oestrogen
Q: What does a milliner make? A: Hats
Q: "Whose famous books include ""The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex"", ""The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals"", "" The Power of Movement in Plants"" and ""The Formation of Vegetable Mould Through the Action of Worms""?" A: Charles Darwin
Q: What kind of ship was the British ship HMS Hermes, laid down in January 1918, launched on 11 September 1919 but not commissioned until 1923, the first ship of its kind to be designed and built anywhere in the world? A: Aircraft carrier
Q: "What is the only state flag in the USA that incorporates the Battle Flag of the Confederacy (also called the ""rebel"", ""Southern Cross, or ""Dixie"" flag)?" A: Mississippi
Q: "In the early stages of which Olympic sport would you hear the words ""en garde""?" A: Fencing
Q: Which car company logo was based on the coat of arms of Free People's State of Wrttemberg of the former Weimar Germany? A: Porsche
Q: 11 November is marked in many countries as Remembrance Day, Poppy Day, Armistice Day or Veterans Day to commemorate the sacrifices of members of the armed forces and civilians in time of war. Why has that date been selected? A: The end of World War I
Q: With what type of music is Scott Joplin associated? A: Ragtime
Q: The US Masters golf tournament started in 1934. How many left handers won in the first 70 tournaments? A: 2
Q: What did American hero Davy Crockett call his musket? A: Old Betsy
Q: What is the popular name of light green apples that originated in Australia in 1868 from a chance seedling propagated by Maria Ann Smith? A: Granny Smith
Q: Who was the second person to orbit the earth? A: Gherman Titov
Q: Who is M's secretary in the James Bond series? A: Miss Moneypenny
Q: Which province of Canada has the longest border with the USA? A: Ontario
Q: What was the nickname of ski jumper Michael Edwards, who first represented Great Britain at the 1987 World Championships and, as the sole British applicant, qualified for the 1988 Winter Olympics where he finished last in both the 70m and 90m events? A: Eddie the Eagle
Q: Tom Lehrer, an American singer-songwriter, whose work contained much black humor and risque lyrics, often parodying popular song forms, taught which subject from 1972 to 2001 at the University of California, Santa Cruz? A: Mathematics
Q: Which 1987 film set during the Vietnam War was based on the career of Adrian Cronauer, a disc jockey on Armed Forces Radio Service who was popular with the troops but infuriated his superiors? A: Good Morning, Vietnam
Q: What was used instead of paper in ancient Egypt? A: Papyrus
Q: "Which TV comedy series featured agents 86 and 99 and ""Chief""?" A: Get Smart
Q: The Dunnart, Bandicoot, Cuscus and Potoroo are native to which country? A: Australia
Q: Which British politician, linguist, writer, academic, soldier and poet who had strong views on matters such as immigration, national identity, monetary policy, and the UK's entry into the EEC, was a Conservative Party MP 1950 to 1974, and an Ulster Unionist MP 1974 to 1987? A: Enoch Powell
Q: Olympic gold medallists Nedo Nadi, Enrico Fabris, Domenico Fioravanti and Alberto Tomba represented which country? A: Italy
Q: Besides the relatively recent annual honorarium of 5,750, the Poet Laureate of the UK has, since the 1500s, been traditionally rewarded annually with what? A: A butt of sack
Q: In which decade was Queen Elizabeth II born? A: 1920s
Q: San Francisco is closest to which ocean? A: Pacific
Q: Newton Marshall, who won the 1600 km Iditarod dog sled race in Alaska in March 2010 was born where? A: Jamaica
Q: "The musical ""Fiddler on the Roof"" is set in what country?" A: Russia
Q: In the final of the Basketball competition at the 1972 Summer Olympics, the last 3 seconds of the game were ordered to be played again, which resulted in which team being awarded the gold medal? A: USSR
Q: Which of the Great Lakes is the only one located entirely within the USA? A: Lake Michigan
Q: "Who won Best Spoken Word Album Grammy Awards in 2006 and 2008 for abridged audiobook versions of his books ""Dreams from My Father"" and ""The Audacity of Hope""?" A: Barack Obama
Q: Elizabeth Ashton, Fritz Ligges, Josef Neckermann, Bridget Parker, Mark Phillips and Harvey Smith competed in what sports at the 1972 Olympic Ganes? A: Equestrian
Q: "What do the notes for the currency ""euro"" have on the back (verso)?" A: Bridges
Q: What name was given to the night when Nazis destroyed Jewish businesses and synagogues in November 1938? A: Crystal Night
Q: What US federal agency that was founded on 3 March 1915 was dissolved on 1 October 1958? A: National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA)
Q: What is the thick watery substance filling the space between the lens and the cornea of the eye? A: Aqueous humour
Q: What is prohibited by an unusual law that has been passed in Lanjarn, Spain, in three settlements in southern France: (Cugnaux, Le Lavandou & Sarpourenx), and has been proposed for Biritiba-Mirim, Brazil? A: Death
Q: What country was established on 1 December 1918 by the union of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and the Kingdom of Serbia (which included the Kingdom of Montenegro) and lasted until it was invaded by the Axis powers in 1941? A: The Kingdom of Yugoslavia
Q: "The term ""Nordic"" means relating to what area?" A: Scandinavia
Q: When Russia became a communist state in 1918 with Lenin as dictator, who was his foreign secretary? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: The first Telstar satellite, that relayed the first television pictures, telephone calls and fax images through space, was designed to provide satellite communications over what area? A: The Atlantic Ocean
Q: What is the first name of the woman that Tiger Woods married on 5 October 2004 and was officially divorced from on 23 August 2010? A: Elin
Q: Croutons are made with what? A: Bread
Q: What is the name for the numerous tiny flowers that comprise a flower head of, for example, a daisy or sunflower? A: Florets
Q: In England, at which venue are the Oaks and the Derby run? A: Epsom
Q: What fashion in French architecture had much to do with the regency of Marie de' Medici? (The greatest architects of the style were Salomon de Brosse and Jacques Lemercier.) A: Louis XIII
Q: Before becoming president of the USA in 1977, and after being discharged from the Navy in 1953, Jimmy Carter took over and expanded his family business in Plains, Georgia. What was the business? A: Peanut farm
Q: If you have played 50 games and won 30, giving a 60% success rate, how many more games would you have to play to achieve a 75% success rate, assuming that you win them all? A: 30
Q: Where was the Boer War fought? A: Southern Africa
Q: Soccer player George Best once said that he spent 95% of his money on wine, women and song, and the other 5% he ... what? A: Wasted
Q: The first Canadian province to adopt one of these officially was Nova Scotia in 1955, and now all provinces and territories (except Nunavut) and Cape Breton Island have officially adopted a ... what? A: Tartan
Q: "The American version of the TV series ""The Office"" is set in what city?" A: Scranton
Q: "What author's non-fiction work includes ""The Fate of Man"", ""The Future in America: A Search After Realities"", ""Little Wars"", ""The New World Order"", ""The Outline of History"", ""Russia in the Shadows"" and ""A Short History of the World""?" A: H G Wells
Q: "Which Russian composer, after writing ""The Firebird"" for the Russian ballet, became a US citizen in 1945?" A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: The counties of Alameda, El Dorado, Fresno, Marin, Mariposa, Nevada, Orange, Riverside, Sacramento, San Bernardino, San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Sonoma and Ventura are in what state of the USA? A: California
Q: What word describes the situation where someone has to choose between two difficulties, and to choose either would have an equally unpleasant outcome? A: Dilemma
Q: Emilio Lavazza, who died in February 2010, ran a company which was associated with what product? A: Coffee
Q: "How many adverbs are in the following sentence: ""Roger told his dog not to jump on the furniture with muddy feet""?" A: None
Q: The following were influential in developing which subject in China: Liu Hui, Zu Geng, Li Chunfeng, Yang Hui, Shen Kuo, Liu Xin, Zhang Heng, Liu Hui, Zu Chongzhi and Wang Xiaotong? A: Mathematics
Q: What large, flat valley that dominates the central portion of the state of California USA and stretches approximately 800 kilometres (500 miles) has the northern half called the Sacramento Valley, and the southern half the San Joaquin Valley, which meet at the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta? A: The Central Valley
Q: Which department store headquartered in Piccadilly, London was founded as a grocery store in 1707? A: Fortnum & Mason
Q: What is the name of the water sports that originated in Australia in the early 20th century, that has become popular in New Zealand, Ireland, South Africa, and the USA? A: Surf lifesaving
Q: What sporting event is 42.195 km (26 miles 385 yards)? A: Marathon
Q: What autism spectrum disorder was first identified in 1944 due to a study of children who lacked nonverbal communication skills, demonstrated limited empathy with their peers, and were physically clumsy? A: Asperger syndrome
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""Licence To ... ""?" A: Kill
Q: Strasbourg is in which country? A: France
Q: What is the stage name of Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, who was born on 28 March 1971? A: Lady Ga Ga
Q: What compound is also known as vitamin B9 or folacin? A: Folic acid
Q: "The early works of which American playwright (best known for ""Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?"") reflect an ""Americanisation"" of the Theatre of the Absurd, a movement that found its peak in works by European playwrights such as Jean Genet, Samuel Beckett, and Eugne Ionesco?" A: Edward Albee
Q: "What book was to have been called, in translation, ""Four and a Half Years (of Struggle) Against Lies, Stupidity and Cowardice""?" A: Mein Kampf
Q: Which river runs through the cities of Cincinnati and Pittsburgh? A: Ohio
Q: "What science features in ""The Man In The White Suit"", a 1951 film starring Alec Guinness?" A: Chemistry
Q: What method of writing, consisting of wedge-shaped and rectangular marks, was used from around 30th century BC to the 1st century AD? A: Cuneiform
Q: The Golden Raspberry Awards have been running since 1980. Who had won the award for Worst Supporting Actress the most times until 2005? A: Madonna
Q: What is the nationality of former US Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali? A: Egyptian
Q: What was the first Asian country to hold a Formula 1 Grand Prix? A: Japan
Q: The boundary of which territory, disputed by the USA and Canada, that had started between the Russian and British Empire in 1821, was resolved by arbitration in 1903? A: Alaska
Q: Which small island in the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb at the south end of the Red Sea was administered as part of Aden during British occupation until 1967, when it was given to the Democratic People's Republic of Yemen? A: Perim
Q: What is the connection between the computer programming language ADA, developed in 1980, and the daughter of poet Lord Byron? A: "Charles Babbage's ""analytical engine"""
Q: Rembrandt painted a number of paintings of himself, all containing what title? A: Self portrait
Q: In Greek legend, who was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter? A: Persephone
Q: Who is the next in this series: Adolf von Baeyer (1905), Henri Moissan (1906), Eduard Buchner (1907), Ernest Rutherford (1908), Wilhelm Ostwald (1909), Otto Wallach (1910) ... ? A: Marie Curie
Q: "Who is the father of actress Lucy Davis, who played receptionist Dawn Tinsley in the UK TV series ""The Office"" (2001), junior writer Lucy Kenwright in the US TV series ""Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip"" and Dianne in the film ""Shaun of the Dead"" (2004)?" A: Jasper Carrott
Q: The world's oldest emergency call service was introduced first in the London area in 1937. What telephone number was used? A: 999
Q: Argentina became the world champions in Taekwondo at the World Championships in Argentina in 2009. Which country came second? A: New Zealand
Q: How many Kings of England were called Henry? A: 8
Q: Who won the 500cc Motorcycle World Championship in 1976 & 1977 and retired from racing in 1984? A: Barry Sheene
Q: Which Austrian, the brother of Franz Joseph, was crowned Emperor of Mexico in 1864, and shot in 1867? A: Maximillian
Q: Which venomous snake is able to dilate its neck into a hood? A: Cobra
Q: "What is the stage name of the Scottish singer-songwriter, actress and model born Marie McDonald McLaughlin Lawrie who is most famous for her hits ""To Sir, With Love"" and ""Shout""?" A: Lulu
Q: Which musical term denotes a vocal slide between two pitches? A: Portamento
Q: The white ball in snooker is called the what ball? A: Cue
Q: What is the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet? A: Alef
Q: Which British long running (27 years) police TV drama that began in 1983 ended in 2010? A: The Bill
Q: What is the capital of the US state of California? A: Sacramento
Q: What is a meal of bread, cheese and pickle known as? A: Ploughman's lunch
Q: What long bone in the arm that runs from the shoulder to the elbow to connect the scapula and the lower arm consists of 3 sections? A: Humerus
Q: Three Gordon Bennett Cups were established for motor racing and ballooning early in the 20th century by James Gordon Bennett, Jr. Of what business was he the millionaire owner? A: New York Herald
Q: Apart from its coastline with the South China Sea, which country is completely surrounded by the state of Sarawak, Malaysia, which also divides it in two? A: Brunei
Q: Which scientist married his cousin from the Wedgewood family, famous for their pottery manufacturing business, following his father's example, who had originally married into the Wedgewood family? A: Charles Darwin
Q: In 1990, who became the first son and father to play on the same Major League Baseball team at the same time (the Seattle Mariners), and the only father and son pair to hit back to back home runs? A: Ken Griffey
Q: What instrument is associated with Pablo Cassals? A: Cello
Q: What is the capital of Utah? A: Salt Lake City
Q: Which American blues, soul, R&B;, rock & roll and jazz singer/songwriter has won 4 Grammys, 17 Blues Foundation Music Awards, and been inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame (1993), the Blues Foundation Hall of Fame (2001) and the Grammy Hall of Fame (both 1999 & 2008)? A: Etta James
Q: Jocky Wilson, an unemployed coal delivery man and miner, was World professional Champion in 1982 and 1989 in what sport? A: Darts
Q: "Which New Zealander, known as ""The White Mouse"", was a leading figure in the maquis groups of the French Resistance, and became one of the Allies' most decorated servicewomen of World War II?" A: Nancy Wake
Q: What is the nationality of Andrew Kelly and Richard Collett, who won the pairs championships, and Genevieve Baildon, who was women's singles champion, at the Bowls World Championships in Hong Kong in November 2009? A: New Zealanders
Q: "In ""The Terminator"", a 1984 film directed and co-written by James Cameron, Arnold Schwarzenegger had the famous line: ""I'll be ... "" what?" A: Back
Q: On May 21, 2009, Apa Sherpa set a new record for the most ascents of Mt Everest. How many times had he reached the top? A: 19
Q: "In the English nursery rhyme ""Hickory Dickory Dock"", what ran up the clock?" A: Mouse
Q: "What was the nickname of the British army regiment called ""The 17th Lancers (Duke of Cambridge's Own)""?" A: The Death or Glory Boys
Q: What is the medical term for a jawbone? A: Mandible
Q: "Who was the lead singer of the band ""Joy Division"" who committed suicide in 1980 aged 23?" A: Ian Curtis
Q: Janet Reger is known as a designer of what? A: Underwear
Q: Between 1973 and 1979, Mohammed Daoud Khan, Nur Mohammad Taraki, Hafizullah Amin and Babrak Karmal were presidents of which country? A: Afghanistan
Q: What word is used in linguistics and science to describe distinct concepts? A: Paradigm
Q: Which actress has a tattoo showing the co-ordinates of the birthplaces of her children? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: The Spicebush Swallowtail, Small White, Common Jezebel, Karner Blue, Red Pierrot and Duke of Burgundy are varieties of what? A: Butterfly
Q: In India in the 1930s, the left wing nationalist party was run by Subhas Chandra Bore, and Ghandi's followers were in the centre. What was the main right wing party? A: The Muslim League
Q: Where are St Lawrence Island and St Matthew Island? A: Bering Sea
Q: What is the highest peak in both the Western and Southern Hemispheres? A: Cerro Aconcagua
Q: What strike of 1,400 women and girls was caused by poor working conditions in the Bryant & May factory in 1888? A: London matchgirls strike
Q: What term was coined by Alfred Maury for the transitional state between wakefulness and sleep? A: Hypnagogia
Q: What is another name for zucchini? A: Courgette
Q: What is Hilary Clinton's maiden name? A: Rodham
Q: "With which sport do you associate ""Flushing Meadow""?" A: Tennis
Q: In 1989, there was a peaceful transfer of power to non-Communist governments in East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and which other country? A: Bulgaria
Q: "There is a myth that that all the clocks in ""Pulp Fiction"" are set to which time that it is slang for smoking marijuana?" A: 4:20
Q: What is obtained from a sturgeon? A: Caviar
Q: "A ""bodice ripper"" is a type of what?" A: Historical romance novel
Q: Who is the only All Black (New Zealand rugby) captain to have been inducted into the IRB Hall of Fame? A: Wilson Whineray
Q: The Tagus River runs through which capital city? A: Lisbon
Q: Pingping, who died aged 21 in March 2010, was reputed to be what? A: The world's shortest man
Q: "What sport is featured in ""The Defense"", a novel by Vladimir Nabokov published in 1930?" A: Chess
Q: Henry VIII married Anne of Cleves after seeing a (presumably, too) flattering portrait of her by whom? A: Hans Holbein
Q: In which year did the South African government lift the ban on the African National Congress, the Pan Africanist Congress, the South African Communist Party and the United Democratic Front, and release Nelson Mandela from prison? A: 1990
Q: "Which group had a 1989 hit with ""The Living Years""?" A: Mike and the Mechanics
Q: "Which comic strip created by Rudolph Dirks that first appeared in 1897 in the ""American Humorist"", the Sunday supplement of the New York Journal, is still distributed, making it the oldest comic strip still in syndication?" A: The Katzenjammer Kids
Q: "Which lake, the largest in Central Europe, is sometimes referred to as the ""Hungarian Sea""?" A: Balaton
Q: Who caused a scandal when, on 2 February 1950, she gave birth to the son of Italian film director Roberto Rossellini while married to neurosurgeon Peter Lindstrom? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: What is another name for the Southern Boobook owl, also called the Mopoke or Ruru? A: Morepork
Q: The most renowned oracles were Zeus (at Dodona) and Apollo. Where was Apollo based? A: Delphi
Q: Where is it a traditional 'sport' to stand on a beach and throw a rope with a weight at the end to catch birds when they return from foraging at sea? A: Nauru
Q: "The documentary film ""This Is It"" centred around the backstage preparations for a tour by which pop star?" A: Michael Jackson
Q: "These are the first lines from what song: ""I was a humdrum person, leading a life apart, when love flew in through my window wide, and quickened my humdrum heart""?" A: What Is This Thing Called Love
Q: What style of music was made popular in the early 1970s largely due to the fame of Bob Marley, who incorporated nyabinghi and Rastafarian chanting into his music, lyrics and album covers? A: Reggae
Q: Roughly how many days does it take the moon to orbit the earth? A: 27
Q: "South Africa, Australia and New Zealand were designated ""Dominions"" in the early part of which century?" A: 20th
Q: "Who plays Lexie Grey in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Chyler Leigh
Q: What phenomenon was discovered by Frenchman Joseph Fourier in 1824, reliably experimented on by Irishman John Tyndall in 1858, and first reported quantitatively by Swede Svante Arrhenius in 1896? A: The greenhouse effect
Q: What is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for Armenia? A: .am
Q: "The theme tune of what TV show was Frank Sinatra's version of ""Love and Marriage""?" A: Married ... With Children
Q: In what style of painting is small distinct dots of colour used to create the impression of a wide selection of other colors and blending, making use of the phenomenon of depicted imagery emerging from disparate points? A: Pointillism
Q: "Where was ""the Aberfan Disaster"" where the collapse of a colliery spoil-tip in 1966 killed 144 people, including 116 children?" A: Wales
Q: Where is the tendon known as the hamstring? A: Behind the knee
Q: What word refers to traditional physical and mental disciplines originating in India, which are associated with meditative practices in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism? A: Yoga
Q: "Which pretender to the English throne during the reign of King Henry VII claimed to be Richard of Shrewsbury, 1st Duke of York, the younger son of King Edward IV, one of the ""little princes in the Tower"" who, legend has it, was executed by Richard III?" A: Perkin Warbeck
Q: What device emits light (electromagnetic radiation), which is usually spatially coherent, through a process called stimulated emission? A: Laser
Q: The Wright Brothers' first powered flight, in 1903, took place where? A: Kitty Hawk
Q: What was the title of Kylie Minogue's tenth album, released in 2007? A: X
Q: In which country is the city of Lisburn? A: Northern Ireland
Q: Which river runs through the cities of Shanghai, Chongqing, Jingzhou, Yangzhou and Nantong? A: Yangtze
Q: "The word ""Newspeak"" was coined in which novel?" A: Nineteen Eighty-Four
Q: """The Iliad"" was originally written in what language?" A: Greek
Q: What DVD region covers Australia and New Zealand? A: 4
Q: What name was given to a group of racing drivers that included Woolf Barnato, Glen Kidston, Henry Birkin, Bernard Rubin, Dudley Benjafield & Sammy Davis, who were responsible for four consecutive victories at the Le Mans 24 hours from 1927 to 1930? A: The Bentley Boys
Q: What genus of about 70-75 species of flowering plants native to southern and eastern Asia and North and South America are mostly shrubs 1 to 3 metres tall, though some are small trees, and others are lianas reaching up to 30m by climbing trees? A: Hydrangea
Q: What was the title of Susan Boyle's hit record at the end of 2009? A: I Dreamed a Dream
Q: "In the James Bond film ""Die Another Day"" who played Bond girl Giacinta ""Jinx"" Johnson?" A: Halle Berry
Q: In June 2008, Duran Duran played as part of a fundraising effort for building restoration at a venue that had not allowed a rock concert there before. What was the venue? A: The Louvre, Paris
Q: The Arapawa Island, California Red, Corriedale, East Friesian, Hampshire, Oxford, Romney, South Dorset, Swifter and Yemeni are all types of what? A: Sheep
Q: What did Goldilocks eat when she visited the Three Bears house? A: Porridge
Q: "The song ""Don't Let's Be Beastly To The Germans"" was banned by the BBC in 1942. Who was the artist?" A: Noel Coward
Q: What name was popularly given to the event on 6 December 1989 when Marc Lpine killed 14 women and injured 10 women and 4 men, now commemorated annually in Canada as the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women? A: The cole Polytechnique Massacre
Q: The national holiday celebrated in the USA on 4 July each year is to commemorate events surrounding which war? A: American War of Independence
Q: Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Ad Reinhardt, Richard Pousette-Dart, Robert Motherwell, Peter Voulkos & Jackson Pollock painted in what style? A: Abstract expressionism
Q: The plant soleirolia soleirolii of the nettle family has a number of common names, including baby's tears, angel's tears, mind-your-own-business, peace-in-the-home, pollyanna vine, the Corsican curse, Irish moss and which other? A: Mother of thousands
Q: Croatia won their first ever Olympic gold in Atlanta in 1996 in which event? A: Handball
Q: "In October 2009 it was announced that director Sam Taylor-Wood was to marry Aaron Johnson, 23 years her junior, who were director and star respecitively of ""Nowhere Boy"", a film about whom?" A: John Lennon
Q: "The words ""a"" and ""an"" are what parts of speech?" A: Indefinite articles
Q: Which river forms part of the border between the USA and Canada? A: St Lawrence
Q: "Which cartoonist, whose caricatures of public figures were published in ""Private Eye"" in the 1960s and 1970s, worked for Pink Floyd on ""The Wall"" album (1979) and movie (1982)?" A: Gerald Scarfe
Q: The Russian city of Volgograd that was called Tsaritsyn from 1589 to 1925, changed its name in 1961 from what? A: Stalingrad
Q: """The sum of the squares of the lengths of the four sides of a parallelogram equals the sum of the squares of the lengths of the two diagonals"" is known as what?" A: Parallelogram law
Q: What led to Britain, France, Belgium, Portugal, South Africa, Japan, New Zealand and Australia controlling the Cameroons, Togoland, Ruanda-Urundi, the Kionga Triangle, South West Africa, the Marshall Islands, the Carolines, the Marianas, the Palau Islands, Kiautschou, Western Samoa, part of New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago and Nauru? A: The end of World War I
Q: """The Unsinkable Seven"" is a nickname given to the only competitors to finish what rally, in both 1963 and 1968?" A: East African Safari Rally
Q: "What 1936 film sets out a future to 2036, predicting World War II from 23 December 1940, bombing raids on cities, a plague (""wandering sickness"") in 1966, and a civilization based in Basra, Iraq, that renounced war and outlawed independent nation-states?" A: Things to Come
Q: "The eleventh studio album by Irish rock band U2, released in November 2004, was called How to Dismantle ..."" what?" A: An Atomic Bomb
Q: What is the traditional design on a convict's uniform? A: Arrows
Q: What chemical is mostly used in match heads? A: Phosphorous
Q: In 1988, why did English professional jockey Lester Piggott have his OBE (which had been awarded in 1975) taken away? A: Tax evasion
Q: What is the world's smallest (25 square miles / 60 square km) and oldest republic, that is in the Apennine Mountains, entirely surrounded by Italy? A: San Marino
Q: "The 2010 film ""The Tooth Fairy"", starring Dwayne Johnson, Julie Andrews and Billy Crystal, concerns a player of which sport?" A: Ice hockey
Q: Where is the US Bullion Depository, a fortified building used to store US official gold reserves, and a US Army post that holds the US Army Armor Center and the US Army Armor School? A: Fort Knox
Q: What term is used to describe a wine with bold, brash and audacious flavours? A: Sassy
Q: What subregion of Oceania includes Fiji, New Caledonia, New Guinea, Norfolk Island, the Solomon Islands, the Torres Strait Islands and Vanuatu? A: Melanesia
Q: "Who was known as ""Ol' Blue Eyes""?" A: Frank Sinatra
Q: What headwear is traditionally worn at Harrow, the English public school? A: Straw boater
Q: The nutmeg tree is important for two spices derived from the fruit: nutmeg and which other? A: Mace
Q: What are Gliese 876 d, OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb, MOA-2007-BLG-192Lb, COROT-Exo-7b, Gliese 581 d and Gliese 581 c? A: Planets
Q: What is the southernmost national capital city in the world? A: Wellington, New Zealand
Q: What does an horologist make? A: Clocks
Q: "Who is the last person to die on stage in Shakespeare's ""Romeo and Juliet""?" A: Juliet
Q: What number do the numbers on opposite sides of a die always add up to? A: 7
Q: What structural element of a building protrudes from the plane of a sloping roof surface, creating usable space in the roof by adding headroom and usually enabling addition of windows? A: Dormer
Q: In an operation headed by Ali Hassan al-Majid (a cousin of then Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein), Iraq used the deadly nerve gas Sarin against what minority in 1987 and 1988? A: Kurds
Q: "David Mamet's plays ""American Buffalo"" (1975) and ""Glengarry Glen Ross"" (1982) are set in what city?" A: Chicago
Q: "What is the country of origin of the cheese called ""feta""?" A: Greece
Q: Ahmet Ertegun, who was born in Turkey and died in 2006 aged 83 in New York City, USA, was a founder of the New York Cosmos team of the North American Soccer League and which record label? A: Atlantic
Q: What electricity voltage is provided as mains power in Britain? A: 230 Volts
Q: How did US president John F Kennedy die? A: Assassination
Q: "Which school is the setting for the 1939 film ""Goodbye, Mr. Chips""?" A: Brookfield Public School
Q: The symptoms for which poisoning include violent stomach pains, retching, excessive saliva production, vomiting, a sense of dryness and tightness in the throat, thirst, hoarseness, difficulty of speech, diarrhea, clammy sweats and delirium? A: Arsenic
Q: What is the next in this series: 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, Jude ... ? A: Book of Revelation
Q: "The ""numbered treaties"", a series of eleven treaties signed between the aboriginal peoples and the reigning Monarch (Victoria, Edward VII or George V) from 1871 to 1921, apply in which counry?" A: Canada
Q: Jos Santos Zelaya, William Walker, Adolfo Daz, Emiliano Chamorro, Juan Bautista Sacasa, Anastasio Somoza Garca, Luis Somoza, Violeta Chamorro, Enrique Bolaos and Daniel Ortega are associated with the politics of which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: Orchard Road, that had a $40 million revamp in 2009, is the retail and entertainment centre of which city? A: Singapore
Q: "Who painted the famous painting known as ""The Night Watch""?" A: Rembrandt
Q: Which rectangular flag centred with a white square was flown by British ships as a sign that it was due to sail? A: Blue Peter
Q: The following are the first few examples of what: (220, 284), (1184, 1210), (2620, 2924), (5020, 5564) & (6232, 6368)? A: Amicable numbers
Q: What is English cricketer Ian Botham's nickname? A: Beefy
Q: What Irish boyband formed in 1998 by Nicky Byrne, Kian Egan, Mark Feehily, Shane Filan and Brian McFadden became the 3rd biggest selling pop band worldwide and biggest selling band of 2000-2009, with 14 number 1 singles in the UK? A: Westlife
Q: What country, with a population of around 12,000, is the third-least-populated sovereign state in the world behind Vatican City and Nauru, and at 26 square kilometres (10 sq miles) is the fourth smallest country in the world, behind those two and Monaco? A: Tuvalu
Q: "What comic strip is about the family of Dagwood Bumstead (who works at J.C. Dithers & Company), his wife, their 2 children (Alexander, originally referred to as ""Baby Dumpling"", and daughter Cookie) and Daisy, the dog?" A: Blondie
Q: Who was the Queen of the Iceni who led a rebellion against the Romans around 63 AD after they tried to take over her kingdom after her husband had willed his possessions to be shared equally between his daughters and Emperor Nero? A: Boadicea
Q: Which landlocked country in Southeast Asia is bordered by Burma, the People's Republic of China, Vietnam, Cambodia and Thailand? A: Laos
Q: "What is the country of origin of the cheese called ""caerphilly""?" A: Wales
Q: Between 2002 and 2008, where were Simon Cowell, Randy Jackson and Paula Abdul the judges? A: American Idol
Q: Miss Worlds 1999 and 2000 both represented which country? A: India
Q: What is a transient psychological disorder encountered by some people visiting or vacationing in Paris, to which Japanese visitors are observed to be especially susceptible? A: Paris syndrome
Q: What was the last foreign invasion of Britain? A: French invasion of Wales, 1797
Q: The first of what games was played in 1967, when the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League defeated the Kansas City Chiefs of the American Football League, 35 to 10? A: Super Bowl
Q: "Who began a collaboration with Walt Disney in 1945 to make the Academy Award-nominated short cartoon, ""Destino"", that was released in 2003, after his death in 1989?" A: Salvador Dali
Q: "US President Reagan appointed two Republicans and one Democrat (John Tower, Brent Scowcroft and Edmund Muskie, known as the ""Tower Commission"") to investigate what?" A: IranContra affair
Q: What is the correct title for the country known as San Marino? A: The Most Serene Republic of San Marino
Q: What chemical compound that is a colourless solid is about 3,000 times stronger than acetic acid? A: Oxalic acid
Q: What name was given to an amateur archeologist's find of gold and silver treasures dating back 1400 years in England in September 2009? A: The Staffordshire Hoard
Q: What colour is the jacket that has been awarded to the winner of the US Masters Golf Tournament since 1949? A: Green
Q: "In musical notation, what word means ""lower in pitch by a semitone""?" A: Flat
Q: What is the only country in Central America which is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, and has English as its official language? A: Belize
Q: The Berkshire, Australian Yorkshire, Danish Landrace, Mulefoot, Wessex Saddleback and West French White are breeds of what? A: Pig
Q: In what country is the port town of Xai-xai, near the mouth of the Limpopo River? A: Mozambique
Q: Through how many of the 5 boroughs of New York City does the New York marathon run? A: 5
Q: What was Geri Halliwell's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Ginger
Q: What piece of music was used by Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean when they won Olympic gold medals at Sarajevo in 1984? A: "Ravel's ""Bolero"""
Q: Which wonder of the ancient world was on the island of Pharos in Alexandria, Egypt? A: Lighthouse
Q: What were the middle names of Oscar Wilde? A: Fingal O'Flahertie Wills
Q: "What is another name for ""denatured alcohol"", i.e. ethanol with additives (such as methanol, isopropyl alcohol, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone and denatonium), used as a solvent and as fuel for spirit burners and camping stoves?" A: Methylated spirit
Q: Lebanon is on what continent? A: Asia
Q: Which 1929 film directed by Alfred Hitchcock is considered to be the first all-talkie feature British film? A: Blackmail
Q: What nationality is supermodel Elle MacPherson? A: Australian
Q: A courgette is a small variety of what? A: Marrow
Q: The single largest collection of whose works (181 paintings) is at the Barnes Foundation, near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania? A: Pierre-Auguste Renoir
Q: Bikram Choudhury is associated with what activity? A: Yoga
Q: "What part of the USA is known as ""Tinseltown""?" A: Hollywood
Q: Who, when he retired as heavyweight boxing world champion in April 1956, was the only heavyweight champion in boxing history to retire having won every fight in his professional career? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: What is the highest number of stars that the Michelin Guide awards to restaurants? A: Three stars
Q: What 2009 film by Matt Tyrnauer documents the life of a fashion designer, his empire and his long-term companion between 2005 and 2007? A: Valentino: The Last Emperor
Q: "Who wrote ""The Rocky Horror Show"", the long-running stage musical which opened in London in 1973?" A: Richard O'Brien
Q: "In 1895, William G Morgan, a YMCA physical education director in Massachusetts, USA, created ""Mintonette"", a game for older people as an indoor sport less rough than basketball. What is it called now?" A: Volleyball
Q: "In the second US series of ""The Office"", the boss says that New York is so great that they named it twice. What did he say was the other name?" A: Manhattan
Q: What sport, the season for which is March to August, has been phased out in all states in Australia except for Victoria and South Australia, and will end in Victoria after the 2010 season? A: Steeplechase
Q: Which part of the body would be treated if the patient was suffering from bunions? A: Feet
Q: """Runaway Jury"" (2003), a film directed by Gary Fleder and starring John Cusack, Gene Hackman, Dustin Hoffman and Rachel Weisz, is an adaption of the book by which author?" A: John Grisham
Q: "According to the English nursery rhyme, who ""put the kettle on""?" A: Polly
Q: "Who wrote ""Futility"" (1898) about an enormous ""unsinkable"" British passenger liner called the Titan, which hits an iceberg and sinks in the North Atlantic with the loss of nearly all on board?" A: Morgan Robertson
Q: "What was the nickname of the British army regiment called the ""6th (Inniskilling) Dragoons ""?" A: The Skins
Q: Ilyushin is a make of Russian what? A: Aeroplane
Q: What scale measures the hotness or piquancy of a chili pepper, as defined by the amount of capsaicin it contains? A: Scoville scale
Q: What is Spiderman's secret identity? A: Peter Parker
Q: What is the official news publication of the Salvation Army, the first edition of which was printed in December 1879 in London, England, and the first US edition in January 1881 in St. Louis, Missouri? A: The War Cry
Q: Which American trumpeter and composer was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Music in 1997, the first time it had been awarded for a jazz recording? A: Wynton Marsalis
Q: Which part of the body would be treated if the patient was suffering from laryngitis? A: Throat
Q: Zhou Yang, gold medal winner at the Winter Olympics 2010, made the news again later by being chided by China's deputy sports minister Yu Zaiqing for thanking her parents, but not her country, for her win. She had won gold in what sport? A: Short track speed skating
Q: About how often does our solar system orbit around the centre of our galaxy, the Milky Way? A: 250 million years
Q: What was the first French settlement in North America? A: Port Royal
Q: "In the film ""Basic Instinct"" (1992) Detective Nick Curran and Catherine Tramell were played by which actors?" A: Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone
Q: "Which music magazine edited by Geoff Barton, first published in 1981 as a one-off supplement to ""Sounds"" newspaper, was devoted to the New Wave of British Heavy Metal and the rise of other hard rock acts such as AC/DC, who appeared on its first cover?" A: Kerrang!
Q: Which car company badge includes the City of Milan's emblem and that of the Visconti family in a circular motif, bordered by a dark blue metallic ring containing inscriptions, separated by two Savoy dynasty knots to honour the Kingdom of Italy? A: Alfa Romeo
Q: Which African country is the largest in area? A: Algeria
Q: Of the 8 Summer Olympics between 1896 and 1952 inclusive, how many were held outside of Europe? A: 2
Q: "Which song, in the best known translation, contains the words ""Oh the shark has pretty teeth dear, And he shows them pearly white, Just a jack-knife has Macheath dear, And he keeps it out of sight""?" A: Mack the Knife
Q: After Sir William Herschel observed Uranus on 13 March 1781 while in the garden of his house in Bath, England, he reported it as a what? A: Comet
Q: What sport will be played at Horse Guard's Parade when London hosts the 2012 Summer Olympic Games? A: Beach volleyball
Q: If someone is dismissed from employment, what are they said to have been? A: Fired
Q: "The ""Don't Make a Wave Committee"" founded in the early 1970s by Jim & Marie Bohlen, Irving & Dorothy Stowe, Paul Cote and Robert & Bobbi Hunter grew into what organisation?" A: Greenpeace
Q: What equipment puts an object in rotation around a fixed axis, applying a force perpendicular to the axis, and uses the sedimentation principle to cause heavier particles to move out along the radius? A: Centrifuge
Q: Ouagadougou is the capital of which country? A: Burkina Faso
Q: "What was the name of the Ewing ranch in the TV series ""Dallas""?" A: Southfork
Q: "Where in Britain is ""The Millennium Stadium""?" A: Cardiff
Q: What was the name of NASA spacecraft that were metallised balloon satellites acting as a passive reflector of microwave signals, the first successful launch of which was on 12 August 1960? A: Echo
Q: Burning methane in the presence of oxygen produces water and what gas? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: "Who painted two versions of ""Portrait of Dr. Gachet"" in 1890?" A: Vincent van Gogh
Q: Who was the only Chinese track and field athlete to win an Olympic gold medal in Atlanta in 1996 (for the 5,000m)? A: Wang Junxia
Q: On 12 June 2009, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was re-elected as president of which country? A: Iran
Q: "Whose autobiography was called ""Unreliable Memoirs""?" A: Clive James
Q: "When Winston Churchill wrote ""Before this, we had no victory and after it we had no defeats"", which event was he talking about?" A: The Second Battle of El Alamein
Q: In 2009, which was the most dominant women's softball team, having won three of the last four Olympic tournaments and the last six Women's ISF XI World Championships? A: United States
Q: "Which sportsman appeared in the James Bond film ""Octopussy"" with Roger Moore?" A: Vijay Amritraj
Q: Which 1959 film, directed by Franois Truffaut with music by Jean Constatin, was the story of a 13 year old Parisian (played by Jean-Pierre Leaud) falling into delinquency? A: The 400 Blows
Q: "In musical notation, what word means ""higher in pitch by a semitone""?" A: Sharp
Q: What number do you get if you add all of the 7 Roman numerals? A: 1,666
Q: In 1937 the Duke of Windsor and Mrs Wallis Simpson were married in which country? A: France
Q: On which continent would you find the mountain chains called Cordillera Oriental and the Cordillera Occidental? A: South America
Q: Which English all-female pop trio based in London, consisting of Heidi Range, Amelle Berrabah and Jade Ewen, was formed in 1998 by original members Siobhn Donaghy, Mutya Buena and Keisha Buchanan? A: Sugababes
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by a crab? A: Cancer
Q: The islands of Tristan da Cunha are 2,816 kilometres (1,750 miles) from the nearest land. What country is closest to them? A: South Africa
Q: "Who won a Best Actor Oscar for the 1996 film ""Shine""?" A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: What scale, developed by Terence Meaden as an extension of the Beaufort scale, measures tornado intensity between T0 and T11? A: TORRO scale
Q: What was the name given to Jiang Qing (Mao Zedong's ex-wife), Zhang Chunqiao, Yao Wenyuan, and Wang Hongwen, Chinese Communist Party officials who were prominent during the Cultural Revolution and were arrested in 1976, charged with treason? A: The Gang of Four
Q: Until September 2004, how many members were there in the French upper house, the Senate? A: 321
Q: Early in 2010 which telescope was used to discover 5 new planets and 2 objects circling stars that were too hot to be planets and too small to be stars? A: Kepler Telescope
Q: At the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, Lee Chang-hwan of Korea broke the Olympic Record with a score of 117 points (though he didn't win a medal for it) in what sport? A: Archery
Q: In the TV series, what was Blackadder's first name? A: Edmund
Q: The fact that hot water freezes more quickly than cold water is known as what? A: The Mpemba effect
Q: Who, an ironmonger by trade, created the first practical steam engine to pump water from mineshafts? A: Thomas Newcomen
Q: "What is Canada's national day (""Canada Day"")?" A: 1 July
Q: "What name was popularly given to the murder of Maria Marten in Polstead, England in 1827 by her lover, which inspired 5 films and songs such as those by the Albion Country Band (1971), Tom Waits & Kathleen Brennan on the album ""Bone Machine"" (1992), and Kathryn Roberts & Sean Lakeman on the album ""2"" (2004)?" A: The Red Barn Murder
Q: What is the name for a badger's nest? A: Sett
Q: "In golf, what is the term for ""one stroke over par""?" A: Bogey
Q: Where is the Sea of Tranquility? A: On the Moon
Q: In the Gospel of Nicodemus, what were the names of the two people were crucified alongside Jesus? A: Dismas and Gestas
Q: Who was the last English king to be executed? A: Charles I
Q: In medicine, which suffix denotes the surgical removal of something, usually from inside the body? A: -ectomy
Q: "What 1918 Act of the US Congress forbade the use of ""disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language"" about the US government, its flag, or its armed forces or that caused others to view the US government or its institutions with contempt, and allowed the Postmaster General to refuse to deliver mail that met those criteria?" A: The Sedition Act
Q: What weapon is traditionally held in a quiver? A: Arrow
Q: What private, coeducational, liberal arts college in Poughkeepsie, New York, USA, was founded as a women's college in 1861, and became coeducational in 1969? A: Vassar
Q: "At the 1st World Rowing Championships held at Lucerne in 1962, the International Federation of Rowing Associations did not recognise countries with similar names. Selection trials from 2 countries were held the day before the championships. Which ""country"" was this?" A: Germany
Q: Where was the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders' Meeting held in the year 2000? A: Brunei
Q: "What did Ellen MacArthur achieve with ""B&Q;/Castorama"" on 7 February 2005?" A: Broke the world record for the fastest solo circumnavigation of the globe
Q: What becomes less dense as it soldifies? A: Water
Q: What word is used to describe a grotesque stone carving with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building? A: Gargoyle
Q: In England, what are Lloyds, Barclays, Westminster, Midland and National Provincial? A: Banks
Q: "In Turkey, what is ""Galatasaray Spor Kulb""?" A: A soccer club
Q: Robert and James Adam are associated with which field? A: Architecture
Q: What was the middle name of Nol Coward? A: Peirce
Q: The Cyclops computer system, conceived by British inventor Bill Carlton, was first used in international competition in 1980 for which sport? A: Tennis
Q: What was a Roman road from York to Scotland near the Firth of Forth? A: Dere Street
Q: What is the name for the study of light and the principles underlying light and vision? A: Optics
Q: The killing of 58-year-old Robert Krentz and his dog, shot on 27 March 2010 on his ranch roughly 19 miles (31 km) from the Mexican border, led to increased public support for a bill to combat illegal immigration in which US State? A: Arizona
Q: Who played eventual winners Atltico Madrid in the final of the 2010 UEFA Europa League soccer competition? A: Fulham
Q: What term is used to describe the layers of smells and aromas perceived in an aged wine? A: Bouquet
Q: "The UK TV series ""Doctor in the House"", based on books by Richard Gordon, was set in which hospital?" A: St Swithin's
Q: Who is the next in this series: Julie Stevens, Honor Blackman, Diana Rigg, Linda Thorson ... ? A: Joanna Lumley
Q: The World Surfing Champion title is awarded annually to the best competition surfer for the year, based on points earned for placings at which events? A: ASP World Tour
Q: The standard tuning of which instrument is one octave higher than a cello? A: Viola
Q: Which legendary couple are said to be buried at Glastonbury, Somerset, England? A: Arthur and Guinevere
Q: Where did the car manufacturer Fiat originate? A: Italy
Q: Which instrument, with a range of around 4 octaves, has its lowest string tuned to G below middle C, with the others tuned in fifths? A: Violin
Q: Formula One world champions James Hunt, Nigel Mansell, Damon Hill, Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button are all from which country? A: United Kingdom
Q: Badfinger, Black Dyke Band, Elephant's Memory, Grapefruit, Mary Hopkin, Jackie Lomax, Modern Jazz Quartet, Radha Krsna Temple, Ravi Shankar, Ronnie Spector, James Taylor and White Trash have all recorded for what label? A: Apple
Q: Which US TV programme is broadcast regularly from the Ed Sullivan Theatre? A: The Late Show with David Letterman
Q: The main religion in Nepal is a style of what? A: Hinduism
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, what did little Jack Horner pull out of his Christmas pie? A: Plum
Q: What is the most populous city in Canada, the provincial capital of Ontario, which is on the northwestern shore of Lake Ontario? A: Toronto
Q: Which TV series featuring British celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay that debuted in 2004 shows him visiting a failing restaurant and try to improve it in one week? A: Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares
Q: In which country were elections planned for 1991 were stopped by the military (leading to Civil War), were held in 1995, and, in 1999, after a series of short-term military leaders, Abdelaziz Bouteflika was elected president? A: Algeria
Q: What branch of biology, dating from the discovery of blood corpuscles by Marcello Malpighi in 1661, classifies and descibes the development of the forms of living organisms? A: Histology
Q: King George III signed The Instrument of Foundation on 10 December 1768 for (and made large grants from his private funds to) which independent, privately funded institution? A: The Royal Academy of Arts
Q: Which poisonous compound can be a gas, solid or liquid, the most infamous application of which was use by the Nazi regime in Germany for mass murder in some gas chambers during the Holocaust? A: Cyanide
Q: In what year did Canada win a gold medal for the first time at an Olympic Games that they hosted? A: 2010
Q: What is the difference between the sum of the prime numbers between 0 and 10 and the product of those numbers? A: 193
Q: "What is the country of origin of the cheese called ""Monterey Jack""?" A: USA
Q: In what year was the Married Womens Property Act passed into British law, that recognised husband and wife as separate legal entities, and gave married women the legal right to sue and be sued, be liable for their own debts, hold stock in their own names and to own, buy and sell separate property? A: 1882
Q: George H Bush became widely known for not liking what food item? A: Broccoli
Q: Artists Pieter Brueghel the Elder, Frederic Edwin Church, Jane Frank and Thomas Cole painted in what style? A: Landscape
Q: What sport was part of the Olympic Games programme between 1896 and 1924, and returned as a full medal sport at the 1988 Olympics? A: Tennis
Q: John Boyd Dunlop was associated with the development of what item? A: Pneumatic tyre
Q: Marie Curie, winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics (1903) and the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (1911), was born where? A: Warsaw, Poland
Q: What are the first words of the US Declaration of Independence? A: When in the course of human events ...
Q: Which wonder of the ancient world was at Olympia? A: Statue of Zeus
Q: "Which professional boxer from the USA, a multiple world champion in both the cruiserweight and heavyweight divisions between 1986 and 2001, was nicknamed ""The Real Deal""?" A: Evander Holyfield
Q: "The British version of the TV series ""The Office"", is set where?" A: Slough
Q: Who was elected Mayor of New York City in 2001? A: Michael Bloomberg
Q: The period of the French Revolution when the Girondists were guillotined, which ended with the guillotining of Robespierre, was known as what? A: Reign of Terror
Q: What does blues singer B.B. King call his guitar? A: Lucille
Q: What fabulous creature appears in the Heraldry of Wales, Japan and China and is typical of evil in Christian lore? A: Dragon
Q: Which musical term denotes a slide in pitch which moves in discrete steps, such as dragging a finger over the keys of the piano? A: Glissando
Q: What is the name for the area where tyres are changed, petrol is provided and minor repairs are carried out during a motor race? A: Pits
Q: "What was the sequel to the John Travolta film ""Get Shorty""?" A: Be Cool
Q: In which US city is the National Air and Space Museum? A: Washington
Q: "A play by Eugene O'Neill is ""A Long ... what .... Journey into Night""?" A: Day's
Q: What electricity voltage is provided as mains power in the USA? A: 120 Volts
Q: The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is a cartel of 12 countries: Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Venezuela and which other? A: Libya
Q: Which pole vaulter won 6 consecutive IAAF World Championships, an Olympic gold, broke the world record 35 times (17 outdoor and 18 indoor records), was the first to clear both 6.0 metres and 6.10 metres (20 ft)? A: Sergey Bubka
Q: According to the Bible, who was told by God to build an ark to escape the Great Flood? A: Noah
Q: Which state of the USA has the longest border with Canada? A: Alaska
Q: Helen Clark, who was appointed Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme in 2009, is from which country? A: New Zealand
Q: "What is Berlin's ""Unter Den Linden""?" A: Boulevard
Q: A station logo that TV broadcasters overlay over a portion of the screen-area to identify the channel (known in the UK and New Zealand as a DOG and in the USA and Canada as a bug), is known as what in Australia? A: Watermark
Q: What is the name of the sterling silver salver awarded to the Wimbledon Ladies' Singles champion? A: Venus Rosewater Dish
Q: What type of event is the London Marathon? A: Running
Q: Ochlophobia is a fear of what? A: Crowds
Q: What was Melanie Brown's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Scary
Q: "Which cartoonist, famous for his work for the British newspaper the ""Daily Express"", used a cartoon family (including Grandma, the enigmatic matriarch, and Chalkie, the tyrannical school teacher), to comment on current affairs?" A: Giles
Q: Which country became a self-governing state within the British Empire on 3 June 1959, with Lee Kuan Yew was sworn in as the first prime minister 2 days later? A: Singapore
Q: Who is the next in this series: Nelson Rockefeller, Walter Mondale, George H. W. Bush, Dan Quayle, Al Gore ... ? A: Dick Cheney
Q: What is the popular name for the ancient Egyptian works generally inscribed on papyrus and placed in coffins of nobility and royalty? A: Book of the Dead
Q: In 1949, when the part of Ireland that was more independent than the rest was declared a sovereign independent state outside the British Commonwealth, what name was given to it? A: Republic Of Ireland
Q: What is the name of the strip of land between a golf tee and the green? A: Fairway
Q: What is the capital of Texas? A: Austin
Q: "Which American pop singer/songwriter who won the first season of the television series American Idol in 2002 won two Grammy Awards in 2006 - for her album ""Breakaway"" and the single ""Since U Been Gone""?" A: Kelly Clarkson
Q: In 2010, Neil Robertson became the second Australian to win the World Snooker Championship title. Who was the first, who won the 1952 championship? A: Horace Lindrum
Q: People from Brittany in France are known as what? A: Breton
Q: "What does ""HM"" mean, when referring to Queen Elizabeth II?" A: Her Majesty
Q: How did Helen Sharman make history in 1991? A: First British person in space
Q: "What right of a defendant was last used in ""Ashford v Thornton"", an 1818 English legal case that was a private appeal from an acquittal for murder?" A: Trial by combat
Q: Jugular veins carry blood away from which part of the body? A: Head
Q: "Who wrote the music for the ballet ""Romeo and Juliet"" and ""Peter and the Wolf"" (a children's tale for narrator and orchestra)?" A: Prokofiev
Q: Serena Williams, who had not advanced past the quarterfinals at the French Open between 2003 and 2009, lost to whom in the quarterfinals 63, 67(2), 86, in 2010? A: Samantha Stosur
Q: Who succeeded Sir William Howe as Commander in Chief of the British forces in 1778 during the American War of Independence? A: Sir Henry Clinton
Q: What Western Christian military order, which existed for approximately two centuries in the Middle Ages, was endorsed by the Roman Catholic Church around 1129? A: Knights Templar
Q: "Which band put out a single in 1996 called ""Tonight Tonight""?" A: Smashing Pumpkins
Q: "Where is the ""Day of the Dead"" celebrated on 2 November?" A: Mexico
Q: What phrase refers to an archaic method of excommunication for one who had committed a particularly grievous sin? A: Bell, book and candle
Q: Who, in 1842, became the first US President's wife to die in the White House? A: Letitia Tyler
Q: How many different people were Prime Minister of Canada in the first 100 years after the first was appointed in 1867? A: 14
Q: Where are gaiters usually worn? A: Legs
Q: What embroidery technique is to gather fabric so that it can stretch, and was commonly used in cuffs, bodices, and necklines in garments where buttons were undesirable before elastic? A: Smocking
Q: Which English king asked the Pope to annul his marriage as he had married his brother's widow? A: Henry VIII
Q: What unit of work represents the work done to overcome a force of 1 dyne through a distance of 1 centimetre? A: Erg
Q: What is the wine-tasting term for the aroma, smell or bouquet of a wine? A: Nose
Q: "Which city has ""areas"" called Burdiehouse, Clermiston, Corstorphine, Dumbiedykes, The Grange, Haymarket, Hermiston, Holyrood, Inverleith, Jock's Lodge, Leith, Meadowbank, Murrayfield, Oxgangs, Pilrig, Portobello, Riccarton, Shandon and Tynecastle?" A: Edinburgh
Q: "What was the nickname of the British army regiment called the ""11th Hussars (Prince Albert's Own)""?" A: The Cherry Pickers
Q: Winston Churchill started his first term as British Prime Minister during which event? A: World War II
Q: "Simon Baker, the star of the TV series ""The Mentalist"", was born where?" A: Australia
Q: In the 1990s, which country briefly became a tax haven and illegal money laundering centre and from 2001 to 2008, accepted aid from the Australian government in exchange for housing an illegal migrant detention center that held and processed asylum seekers trying to enter Australia? A: Nauru
Q: Between 1960 and 1987, Maurice Yamogo, Lt. Col. Sangoul Lamizana, Col. Saye Zerbo, Maj. Dr. Jean-Baptiste Oudraogo, Capt. Thomas Sankara and Capt. Blaise Compaor were involved in the politics of which country? A: Burkina Faso
Q: Which mountain range extends over Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela? A: Andes
Q: How were Plcido Domingo, Jos Carreras and Luciano Pavarotti known collectively? A: Three tenors
Q: Doggles, invented by Ken and Roni di Lullo, are a type of what? A: Sunglasses
Q: What does an angler try to catch? A: Fish
Q: In the 1960s, which instrument was associated with Mick Avory, John Steel, Keith Moon, Ginger Baker, Charlie Watts, Dave Clark, Richard Taylor, Viv Prince and Jim McCarty? A: Drums
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 Muses was the muse of Lyric poetry? A: Erato
Q: "What was the name of the country in west Africa which, in 1975, was re-named ""The People's Republic of Benin""?" A: Dahomey
Q: David Attenborough is best known for narrating what kind of TV programme? A: Natural History
Q: What is the name of the line separating the numerator and denominator of a fraction if it is written as a horizontal line? A: Vinculum
Q: The cities of Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Allentown, Erie, Reading, Scranton, Bethlehem, Altoona and Harrisburg are in which US state? A: Pennsylvania
Q: In Greek and Roman mythology, who is the son (with a twin sister, Artemis) of Zeus and Leto, who has been worshipped as a god of a number of responsibilities, including light, the sun, truth, prophecy, archery, medicine, healing, music, poetry and the arts? A: Apollo
Q: Who won the World Darts Championship 13 times between 1995 and 2010 inclusive? A: Phil Taylor
Q: What name is given to a young lion? A: Cub
Q: "What was the official date of the formation of the ""United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland""?" A: 1 January 1801
Q: What is the name for the act of murdering of one's own brother? A: Fratricide
Q: What is the name for the lump in a human throat? A: Adam's Apple
Q: "In the original Star Trek TV series that aired from 1966 to 1969, who played Dr. Leonard ""Bones"" McCoy?" A: DeForest Kelley
Q: Gene Kelly played Tommy Allbright in which 1954 film musical? A: Brigadoon
Q: According to a series of novels published by Random House in the 1960s, what is the full name of Barbie, the doll manufactured by Mattel, Inc. launched in March 1959? A: Barbara Millicent Roberts
Q: Bernard and Phyllis Coard and Maurice Bishop were involved with the politics of which country in 1983? A: Grenada
Q: "Retired professional wrestler Jesse ""The Body"" Ventura, is a former governor of which US state?" A: Minnesota
Q: Where are the Kasubi Tombs, also known as the Ssekabaka's Tombs, the burial grounds for four kings, which were badly damaged by fire on 16 March 2010? A: Kampala, Uganda
Q: "The screenplay for which 2000 film, set against the UK miners' strike in County Durham in 1984 & 1985, was inspired in part by A. J. Cronin's novel ""The Stars Look Down""?" A: Billy Elliot
Q: What is the common name of the endangered Techmarscincus jigurru, usually found above 1400 m on the slopes of Queensland's highest mountains, which was discovered in 1981? A: The Bartle Frere skink
Q: The International Pageant of Pulchritude, held from 1926 to 1932, was the forerunner of what modern event? A: Miss Universe
Q: On 21 May 2004, Pemba Dorjie set a new record for climbing to the top of Mt Everest from Basecamp in the fastest time. What was the new record? A: 8 hours and 10 minutes
Q: Which singer-songwriter, who won 2 BRIT Awards and 2 Ivor Novello Awards and was nominated for 5 Grammy Awards in 2006, was an officer in a cavalry regiment of the British Army, and served under NATO in Kosovo in 1999? A: James Blunt
Q: A teaching technique invented by Sarah Ann Glover (who adapted it from a number of earlier systems) and popularised by John Curwen in the 19th century is associated with what activity? A: Singing
Q: Toward the end of 2000, in which sport was the diameter of the ball increased by 2mm to make it easier to be seen on television and thus make it more viable as a televised spectator sport? A: Table tennis
Q: What city, also known as Hogbonou and Adjac, was the capital of Dahomey and is now the capital of The People's Republic of Benin? A: Porto-Novo
Q: What were the weapons used mainly by infantrymen in the American Civil War? A: Rifles
Q: "A book by D H Lawrence that caused controversy in the 1960s is ""Lady Chatterley's ..."" what?" A: Lover
Q: Olympic gold medallists Ian Fergusson and Danyon Loader represented which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Who stands off-stage and reminds actors of forgotten lines during a performance? A: Prompter
Q: Arnall Patz received the US Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2004 for his lifetime of work in what field? A: Ophthalmology
Q: The Plum Judy, Painted Lady, Monarch, Speckled Wood, Mallow Skipper, and Zabulon Skipper are varieties of what? A: Butterfly
Q: Where is the region known as Transylvania? A: Romania
Q: What was the cause of a state of emergency in Kenya from October 1952 to December 1959? A: Mau Mau rebellion
Q: "A compilation of whose inspirational letters to a young jazz student named Anthony, has been published as ""To a Young Jazz Musician""?" A: Wynton Marsalis
Q: Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie and Joan Baez are associated with what style of music? A: Folk
Q: "The term ""Gallic"" means relating to what country?" A: France
Q: English actress Lily Langtry was the mistress of whom? A: Edward VII
Q: What historical period is commonly dated from the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century to the beginning of the Early Modern Period in the 16th century, marked by the rise of nation-states and the beginnings of European overseas expansion? A: The Middle Ages
Q: What old English unit equalling inch (8.46 mm) is the base for the English and the US shoe sizing system? A: Barleycorn
Q: The city of Leningrad, Russia, is now known as what? A: St Petersburg
Q: An oenophile is a lover of what? A: Wine
Q: Which fruit is used to make cider? A: Apples
Q: What name was given to members of the Protestant Reformed Church of France from the 16th to the 18th centuries, many of whom emigrated in the late 17th century, who were inspired by the writings of John Calvin in the 1530s? A: Huguenots
Q: Which cartoon character was born at the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm? A: Snoopy
Q: "Sheep are aged by their teeth and are referred to by the number of permanent incisors that have erupted. About how old is a ""four-tooth""?" A: 1.5 to 2 years
Q: Which island was a major exporter of phosphate from 1907 until deposits ran out in the 1980s, and had the highest per-capita income of any sovereign state in the world during the late 1960s and early 1970s? A: Nauru
Q: Thomas Cranmer held what position during the reign of Henry VIII, between 3 December 1533 and 4 December 1555? A: Archbishop of Canterbury
Q: "What is the legal tender (face) value of the ""American Buffalo"", a 24-karat gold bullion coin first offered for sale by the US Mint on 22 June 2006?" A: US$50
Q: What is the next in this series: 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians ... ? A: Colossians
Q: "During a speech in January 1992, then-president George H. W. Bush mentioned that he wanted to ""make American families a lot more like ... which family? ... and a lot less like the Simpsons""." A: The Waltons
Q: What device is designed to measure a gravitational field and changes to it? A: Gravimeter
Q: What nationality is Justine Henin, winner of 7 Grand Slam singles titles and an Olympic gold medal, who retired from professional tennis in 2008 when ranked World No. 1 and returned in 2010? A: Belgian
Q: Which colony centred at Fort Christina (now in Wilmington, Delaware) that included parts of the now US states of Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania was established in 1638, and in 1655 surrendered and was taken over by the Dutch? A: New Sweden
Q: Which cartoon series relies on the voices of Seth MacFarlane, Alex Borstein, Seth Green, Mila Kunis & Mike Henry? A: Family Guy
Q: "Who is the bulldog who appears in ""Tom and Jerry"" cartoons?" A: Spike
Q: What name was applied to lightly-armed Russian horsemen? A: Cossacks
Q: "What was the name of the British India ""Special Force"", the brainchild of British Brigadier Orde Charles Wingate, that operated behind Japanese lines in Burma & India in 1943/1944 during World War II?" A: The Chindits
Q: In May 2010, at the age of 13, Jordan Romero became the youngest person to do what? A: Climb Mt. Everest
Q: What weapon used in the middle ages had the cord of a bow fixed in a notch and an iron bolt released from it by a trigger? A: Crossbow
Q: The Victoria Falls is on which river? A: Zambezi
Q: Australopithecus sediba, an early hominid, whose only discovered remains date to 1.78 to 1.95 million years ago, is known from two partial skeletons discovered where? A: South Africa
Q: What rating system for talk shows, defined as the ratio of interrupted sentences versus all sentences within a typical program, expressed as a percentage, was invented by author Stephen Euin Cobb? A: Ignorance index
Q: What is the name of the thick dark green fluid manufactured by the liver? A: Bile
Q: Who supposedly wrote the fictional diaries written by Sue Townsend? A: Adrian Mole
Q: Which instrument, with a range of around 3 -4 octaves, has its lowest string tuned to C 2 octaves below middle C, and the others tuned in fifths? A: Cello
Q: About how long does it take for the moon to make one orbit of the Earth? A: 27 days
Q: What was Emma Bunton's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Baby
Q: "In the nursery rhyme beginning ""Hey Diddle Diddle"", who jumped over the moon?" A: Cow
Q: What is the name of the main tournament course at St Andrews Golf Club? A: The Old Course
Q: What French political scandal involved the sentencing of an artillery officer to life imprisonment for treason in 1894, who was exonerated and reinstated to the French Army in 1906 after the discovery that the French government had fabricated evidence? A: The Dreyfus Affair
Q: "Who is quoted as saying ""If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants""?" A: Isaac Newton
Q: Which American medical doctor, professor, and molecular biologist was awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of aquaporins (water-channel proteins that move water molecules through the cell membrane)? A: Peter Agre
Q: What geographical feature is Bull Run, the site of the battle that was famously lost by troops commanded by General George Custer? A: River
Q: What event, devised by Jennifer McCreight, took place on 26 April 2010 in response to reports that Hojatoleslam Kazem Seddiqi, Friday Prayer Leader for Tehran in Iran, had blamed earthquakes on women who dress immodestly? A: Boobquake
Q: Who is the next in this series: Jersey Joe Walcott, Rocky Marciano, Floyd Patterson, Ingemar Johansson, Floyd Patterson, ...? A: Sonny Liston
Q: What designer is connected with the clothing brands Purple Label, Black Label, Polo, Blue Label, RLX, Tennis, Pink Pony and Chaps? A: Ralph Lauren
Q: What is the name given to a randomly derived change to the nucleotide sequence of the genetic material of an organism? A: Mutation
Q: Which theme park in LA County, California, USA, initially created to offer tours of soundstages and sets, is one of the oldest movie studios still in use and was the first of many similar theme parks in, for example, Florida and Japan? A: Universal Studios
Q: What was the name of the Liverpool club where the Beatles played in the early 1960s? A: Cavern
Q: Ronald Ross won a Nobel prize in medicine for his work on what subject? A: Malaria
Q: "The word ""nebula"" derives from the latin word for what?" A: Cloud
Q: Peter The Hermit is known for leading what group in 1095? A: The First Crusade
Q: What is the unconventional use of TLDs in domain names (such as using .tv, .fm and .am to denote television or radio stations) known as? A: Domain hacks
Q: "In a 1934 song, Nol Coward warned Mrs Worthington: ""Don't put your daughter on the ... "" what?" A: Stage
Q: What was the name given to regulations governing import tariffs designed to protect the prices of cereal crops prices in Britain against competition from less expensive foreign imports between 1815 and 1846? A: The Corn Laws
Q: Which US state produces the most maple syrup? A: Vermont
Q: Actor John Wayne is mostly associated with what type of film? A: Western
Q: What Roman road, which began to be constructed in 312 BC, connected Rome to Brindisi in southeast Italy? A: Appian Way
Q: The American Landrace, Australian Yorkshire, British Landrace, Bulgarian White, Gascon, Hereford, Krskopolje, Mangalitsa, Moody Woody, Red Wattle, Tamworth and Wuzishan are all types of what? A: Pigs
Q: Which of his children did Michael Jackson famously hang over a hotel balcony? A: Blanket
Q: What word, originally applied to a large, flawless diamond, is now used to denote a model of excellence or perfection of any kind? A: Paragon
Q: John McEnroe ended whose long term role as Wimbledon Champion? A: Bjorn Borg
Q: "These are the first lines from what song: ""They asked me how I knew, My true love was true. Oh, I of course replied, Something here inside cannot be denied""?" A: Smoke Gets in Your Eyes
Q: What was the middle name of writer G B Shaw? A: Bernard
Q: What was the main activity of a group founded in 1970 by Andreas Baader, Gudrun Ensslin, Horst Mahler, and Ulrike Meinhof? A: Terrorism
Q: In many countries, the Second Sunday of May is dedicated to which group? A: Mothers
Q: "In 1904 the Russian cruiser ""Rossia"" used what, the first time it was used by a warship on the high seas during a time of war?" A: Observation balloon
Q: On 9 October 2009, who was elected for an 8 year period to membership of the International Olympic Committee, replacing former Danish member Kaj Holm? A: Frederik, Crown Prince of Denmark
Q: The Macrocarpa tree is native to what continent? A: North America
Q: A binnacle is the name for the surround of what item found on a ship? A: Compass
Q: Who is the next in this series: Muhammad Naguib, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Muhammad Naguib, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Anwar El Sadat, Sufi Abu Taleb, Hosni Mubarak, Atef Ebeid ... ? A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: What part of the body removes old red blood cells, holds a reserve of blood in case of haemorrhagic shock and recycles iron? A: Spleen
Q: What is the setting for the Lord of the Rings trilogy? A: Middle Earth
Q: Motorcycle speedway riders compete over how many anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit? A: 4
Q: What was the name given to an insurrection (the most significant uprising in Ireland since the rebellion of 1798) led by schoolteacher and barrister Patrick Pearse from 24 April to 30 April 1916, with the aim of establishing the Irish Republic? A: The Easter Rising
Q: "What was the title of Pink Floyd's 11th studio album, released in 1987, that contained the single releases ""Learning to Fly"" and ""One Slip""?" A: A Momentary Lapse of Reason
Q: In 2008 at Beijing, Laura Kay Berg became one of 4 women to have won 4 Olympic medals in what sport, having won 3 golds and 1 silver? A: Softball
Q: Florida produces 74 percent of which citrus fruit grown in the USA, 95% of which is processed, mostly for the official state beverage? A: Oranges
Q: "Which English actor, director and producer, a descendant of the Terry acting family, was acclaimed for his youthful ""Hamlet"" which broke box office records on Broadway in 1937, and is one of the few to have won an Academy, Emmy, Grammy, and Tony Award?" A: John Gielgud
Q: Olympic gold medallists Ian Thorpe, Stephanie Rice, Lisbeth Trickett, Mike Wenden and John Henricks represented which country? A: Australia
Q: "Which long running British police procedural television series that originated as a one-off drama, entitled ""Woodentop"" in August 1983 was first broadcast in 1984?" A: The Bill
Q: "Which American actress became known for her role in the television series ""Ally McBeal"" and has appeared in several films, including ""Charlie's Angels"", ""Kill Bill"" and ""Kung Fu Panda""?" A: Lucy Liu
Q: "Who became the first President of the French Republic by popular vote in 1848, became dictator after a coup in 1851, then ruled as ""Emperor of the French"" from 1852 to September 1870, when he was captured in the Franco-Prussian War?" A: Napoleon III
Q: "In the nursery rhyme beginning ""Hey Diddle Diddle"", who laughed to see such fun?" A: Dog
Q: What word describes the surface of the palms on the human body? A: Volar
Q: "Dutch conductor and composer Andr Rieu, best known for creating an international revival in waltz music with his ""Johann Strauss Orchestra"" which began in 1987, is associated with which instrument?" A: Violin
Q: What is the only major US City (which was founded in 1701 by Frenchman Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac), that looks south to Canada? A: Detroit
Q: Which British TV series about cars that began in 1977 is presented by Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May, and features a test driver known as The Stig? A: Top Gear
Q: What island nation in the South Pacific Ocean was, from 1906, jointly managed by France and the UK as the New Hebrides, and became a Republic in 1980? A: Vanuatu
Q: Minamata disease, a neurological syndrome with symptoms including ataxia, numbness, general weakness, narrowing of vision and damage to hearing and speech, and even insanity, paralysis, coma and death within weeks, is caused by severe poisoning by what? A: Mercury
Q: What was the first of the World Trade Centre buildings to be rebuilt after 9/11? A: 7 World Trade Center
Q: "After a Facebook campaign to make it the number 1 UK single in December 2009, ""Killing In The Name"" by which band set a record for most downloads in a single week, selling over 500,000 copies?" A: Rage Against the Machine
Q: If you were watching a game between the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Philadelphia Flyers, what sport would they be playing? A: Ice hockey
Q: "Which New York Yankees baseball identity is credited with coining the phrase ""It's deja vu all over again""?" A: Yogi Berra
Q: Which country had, at various times, included areas known at various times as Bosnia, Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Serbia, Vojvodina, Kosovo, Istria and Rijeka? A: Yugoslavia
Q: The Sex Pistols' initial career lasted two and a half years. How many studio albums of frsh material did they issue officially in that period? A: 1
Q: Who was the founder of the Christian Science movement? A: Mary Baker Eddy
Q: What is the 9th month of the Islamic calendar, the month of fasting, in which Muslims refrain from eating, drinking, smoking, and so on from dawn to sunset? A: Ramadan
Q: "What is the next in this series: ""Lucky Town"", ""The Ghost of Tom Joad"", ""The Rising"", ""Devils & Dust"", ""We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions"", ""Magic"" ... ?" A: Working on a Dream
Q: When was the first Super Bowl for American football held? A: 1967
Q: What thin, circular structure in the eye controls the diameter and size of the pupils and the amount of light reaching the pupil? A: Iris
Q: The Easter Rising, an insurrection staged during Easter Week 1916 with the aim of ending British rule, was where? A: Ireland
Q: What was initiated by British conductor Sir Henry Wood? A: The Proms
Q: """The Mystery of Edwin Drood"" is the unfinished novel by which author?" A: Charles Dickens
Q: What originated as a French folk dance, notated in 4/4 or 2/2 time at moderate tempo, with a distinctive rhythmic feature, as phrases begin in the middle of the bar (on the third quarter note), creating a half-measure upbeat? A: Gavotte
Q: "What country, an ideal of the ""Illyrian Movement"" began to become a reality after the 1918 collapse of Habsburg Austria-Hungary at the end of World War I, and was formally renamed as a ""Kingdom"" in 1929?" A: Yugoslavia
Q: Busby Berkeley was famous for his contribution to elaborately staged extravagant scenes in film musicals, mainly between the 1920s to 1940s, as what? A: Choreographer
Q: The national flag of which country differs from the Italian tricolor only because it contains the national coat of arms? A: Mexico
Q: What tree is mentioned in the Christmas song 'Twelve Days of Christmas'? A: Pear Tree
Q: "The word ""the"" is what part of speech?" A: Definite article
Q: What is the chemical symbol for Helium? A: He
Q: This is an extract from the lyrics of which song written by Lily Allen and Gregory Kurstin: It's sad but it's true how society says her life is already over, There's nothing to do and there's nothing to say, 'Til the man of her dreams comes along, Picks her up and puts her over his shoulder, It seems so unlikely in this day and age? A: 22
Q: In 2007, who set a record by being the only soccer player to play on three World Cup-winning teams? A: Pel
Q: What are formed from linear chains of amino acids? A: Proteins
Q: What is the stage name of Natalie Renee McIntyre, a US R&B; and soul singer-songwriter, record producer and actress with a distinctive raspy voice and a singing style heavily influenced by Billie Holiday & Betty Davis? A: Macy Gray
Q: The Red Ensign, a flag that originated in the early 17th century as a British ensign flown by the Royal Navy, is currently specifically used by which group? A: British merchant navy
Q: When did homosexuality between consenting adults cease to be illegal in all of the United Kingdom? A: 1982
Q: What was the original name of the singer known as Annie Lennox, who was born on Christmas Day, 1954 in Torry, Aberdeen? A: Ann Lennox
Q: "What science features in the TV series ""House""?" A: Medicine
Q: What early 18th century English club in London with strong political and literary associations, had members which included writers William Congreve, Jonathan Swift and Joseph Addison, and politicians the Duke of Marlborough and Sir Robert Walpole? A: The Kit-Kat Club
Q: In the 1970 UK general election, who was elected MP for North Antrim, became the longest serving MP from Northern Ireland, and led the Democratic Unionist Party from 1971 to 2008? A: Ian Paisley
Q: How long is each round in a boxing match at the Olympic Games? A: 3 minutes
Q: The River Volga runs through which capital city? A: Moscow
Q: Of the 6 Summer Olympics held between 1988 and 2008 inclusive, how many were in Europe? A: 2
Q: Who was the first female, the first Californian and the first Italian-American to hold the post of Speaker of the US House of Representatives? A: Nancy Pelosi
Q: What is a sultan's wife called? A: Sultana
Q: Jesse Owens, who won four gold medals at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany, represented which country? A: USA
Q: What country in Southeast Asia about 640 km (400 miles) northwest of Australia that occupies half of one island and two smaller ones, was colonised by Portugal in the 16th century, declared independence on 28 November 1975, was invaded by Indonesia 9 days later and became a sovereign state on 20 May 2002? A: East Timor
Q: "What was the name of the evil wizard that appeared in the TV series ""The Smurfs""?" A: Gargamel
Q: What was the nickname for a 1913 British Act of Parliament that enabled suffragettes on hunger strike to be released from prison when they became ill? A: The Cat and Mouse Act
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, where did Peter Peter pumpkin eater keep his wife? A: Pumpkin shell
Q: "The first name of the First Lady of which US president was Elizabeth, known as ""Betty""?" A: Gerald Ford
Q: Since 1965, where has the headquarters of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) been located? A: Vienna, Austria
Q: The US state of Alabama is known as what? A: The Yellowhammer State
Q: "What nation's boat ""Black Magic I"" won five races to nil in the America's Cup in 1995?" A: New Zealand
Q: "Ralph Nader's 1965 book ""Unsafe at Any Speed"" targeted which car?" A: Chevrolet Corvair
Q: In which country is the city of Dundee ? A: Scotland
Q: """Rock 'n' Roll"", a play by Tom Stoppard that premiered in 2006, takes place in Cambridge, England and what other city?" A: Prague
Q: Which British laws introduced by the Importation Act of 1815 and repealed in 1846 are examples of British mercantilism, the abolition of which marked a significant step towards free trade? A: The Corn Laws
Q: Who, in 2010, became the first person from outside the British Isles to win the World Snooker Championship title since Cliff Thorburn in 1980, and the first non British player to win the title since Ken Doherty in 1997? A: Neil Robertson
Q: Who was president of the USA when the first shots were fired in the American Civil War at First Sumter? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: The Owl and the Pussycat sailed away to the land where what grows? A: The bong tree
Q: In which country was actor Sam Neill born? A: Northern Ireland
Q: A relic that is claimed to be Jesus Christ's burial sheet is associated with which city? A: Turin
Q: "Which band had a hit record in 1980 with ""Smells Like Teen Spirit""?" A: Nirvana
Q: What position represents the head of government in Germany? A: Chancellor
Q: Which movement was begun in 1909 by Richard Schirrmann, a German schoolteacher, and Wilhelm Mnker, a conservationist? A: Youth Hostels
Q: What Hindi song composed by A. R. Rahman & Gulzar won an Academy Award for Best Original Song and a Grammy Award for Best Song for a Motion Picture in 2008? A: Jai Ho
Q: Former New York City police chief Bernard Kerik, appointed US homeland security chief in 2004, was imprisoned for 4 years in February 2010 for what reason? A: Tax fraud
Q: In which country is the city of Aberdeen? A: Scotland
Q: "Whose first novel, ""The Lovers"", after being rejected by 26 publishers, won a Hugo Award in 1953?" A: Philip Jose Farmer
Q: Which pope was elected in 1414, ending the situation where there were multiple Popes? A: Martin V
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by a goat? A: Capricorn
Q: What was the occupation of Edmund Hilary, the first man (with Sherpa Tenzing Norgay) to reach the summit of Mt Everest in 1953? A: Beekeeper
Q: Who won his fourth Olympic gold medal with Paul MacDonald in 1988? A: Ian Ferguson
Q: Which film directed by Michelangelo Antonioni showed the nature and emotions of the characters when Claudia (played by Monica Vitti) searched with her lover Sandro (Gabriele Ferzetti) for her sister Anna (Lea Massar)? A: L'avventura (The Adventure)
Q: Which country occupies the islands called Luzon, Panay, Negros, Cebu, Mindanao, Basilan, Sulu, and Tawi-Tawi? A: Philippines
Q: "The Academy Award-winning song ""Mona Lisa"", written by Ray Evans and Jay Livingston for the film ""Captain Carey, U.S.A"", was a 1950 hit for which artist?" A: Nat King Cole
Q: The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a stock market index that shows how stocks of large, publicly-owned companies based in the USA have traded during a standard stock market trading session. How many company's stocks does it track? A: 30
Q: What relation were Nat King Cole and Natalie Cole to each other? A: Father and daughter
Q: "In the USA and Canada, what does ""MLS"" signify?" A: A professional soccer league
Q: About 90% of the world's extractable material, used for the manufacture of ornamental objects and jewellery, is in the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia on the Baltic Sea. What type of material is this? A: Amber
Q: Who is the next in this series: Annette Kaye, Frada Miller, Alene Akins, Mickey Sutphin, Alene Akins, Sharon Lepore, Julie Alexander, ... ? A: Shawn Southwick
Q: A famous opera by Rossini is about the barber of where? A: Seville
Q: Which American became a professional golfer in 2005 at 16 years of age after, in 2000 aged 10, being the youngest player to qualify for the Women's US Amateur Public Links Championship, and, in 2002, the youngest player to qualify for a LPGA tour event ? A: Michelle Wie
Q: "What country surrounds the self declared ""Principality of Hutt River"" (founded in April 1970 by His Royal Highness Prince Leonard who rules with his family including his wife Princess Shirley and their son, Crown Prince Ian), which issues its own car registrations and currency and pays no taxes?" A: Australia
Q: "George Gershwin wrote a piece of music called ""Rhapsody in ..."" what?" A: Blue
Q: What was the first US city to host an Olympic Games? A: St Louis
Q: "The ""promession"" technique, announced in May 2010, was proposed to be used for what?" A: Burial
Q: What subregion of Oceania, comprising hundreds of small islands in the western Pacific Ocean, includes Guam, the Northern Marianas, Wake Island, Nauru, the Marshall Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands and Kiribati? A: Micronesia
Q: The first 3 winners of which road bicycle race were Emile Rogiers (BEL) in 1948, Gerrit Schulte (NED) in 1949 and Henk Lakeman (NED) in 1950? A: Ronde van Nederland
Q: What is the national intelligence agency of Israel? A: The Mossad
Q: "Who provided the voice of ""Charlotte"" in the 2007 film ""Charlotte's Web""?" A: Julia Roberts
Q: The Cultural Revolution was a period of widespread social and political upheaval between 1966 and 1976, resulting in nation-wide chaos and economic disarray in which country? A: The Peoples Republic of China
Q: In most countries of the world, the third Sunday in June is dedicated to which group? A: Fathers
Q: Which American rock, folk, and alt-country singer/songwriter, a three-time Grammy Award winner, was named Americas best songwriter by TIME magazine in 2002? A: Lucinda Williams
Q: What is the name for the branch of astronomy that relates to precise measurements and explanations of the positions and movements of celestial bodies? A: Astrometry
Q: What mountain-based military camp in Frederick County, Maryland, is used as a country retreat of the President of the USA and his guests? A: Camp David
Q: What men's golf tournament was held on The Hills Golf Course, a privately owned golf course in an area known as Arrowtown, in 2007, 2009 and 2010? A: New Zealand Open
Q: Where did retired three-time World Heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali light the Olympic flame? A: Atlanta
Q: What was the name of the live-in cook for Ben, Adam, Hoss and Little Joe Cartwright in a long running TV series? A: Hop Sing
Q: Which is the largest of Britain's Channel Islands? A: Jersey
Q: "What is the subject of the ""Zhou Bi Suan Jing"", one of the oldest and most famous Chinese texts dating from the Zhou Dynasty (1046 BC256 BC), and added to into the Han Dynasty (202 BC 220 BC)?" A: Mathematics
Q: "After the World Cup in 1962, the government of Brazil declared which player an ""official national treasure"" to prevent him from being transferred out of the country when wealthy European clubs tried to sign him?" A: Pel
Q: "A song from the musical ""Evita"" is ""Don't cry for me ... "" where?" A: Argentina
Q: "Sheep, which are aged by their teeth, are referred to by the number of permanent incisors that have erupted. About how old is a ""six-tooth""?" A: 2 to 3 years
Q: Which Soviet gymnast won the most Olympic medals in her career, and the most gold of any female? A: Larissa Latynina
Q: In South Slavic (Bosnian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Macedonian, Montenegrin, Serbian and Slovenian) mythology, what is raskovnik? A: Magical herb
Q: Which of Britain's Labour Prime Ministers was in office for the longest continuous term and the longest time overall? A: Tony Blair
Q: What is the name for the longest side of a right angled triangle? A: Hypotenuse
Q: What is the relationship between Irish folk singer, songwriter, and guitarist Christy Moore and Irish folk-rock singer-songwriter Luka Bloom? A: Brothers
Q: Who founded the London Symphony Orchestra Summer Pops in 1985 and served as Pops Musical Director of the San Francisco Symphony and Rochester (NY) Philharmonic in the USA? A: John Dankworth
Q: Which country became independent from the United Kingdom on 14 August 1947, and became a republic in 1956? A: Pakistan
Q: What was the favourite vegetable of Catherine de Medici, who, when she left Florence to marry the king of France, brought her own cooks, who could prepare it in the ways that she especially liked? A: Spinach
Q: Olympic gold medallists Chris Hoy, Rebecca Adlington, Bradley Wiggins and Kelly Holmes represented which country? A: Great Britain
Q: "To what does the term ""radiology"" refer?" A: X Rays
Q: Who was the daughter of Rodrigo Borgia, later Pope Alexander VI, and Vannozza dei Cattanei, one of his many mistresses? A: Lucrezia Borgia
Q: Who were Scary, Baby, Ginger, Posh and Sporty? A: The Spice Girls
Q: What was the last battle where a British monarch led troops into battle? A: Dettingen, 1743
Q: Of the 6 Winter Olympics held between 1988 and 2006, how many were outside of Europe? A: 3
Q: The Symphony No. 3 in E flat major (Op. 55) by Ludwig van Beethoven is known as what? A: The Eroica
Q: "Who originated the ""Mr Men"" series of books?" A: Roger Hargreaves
Q: Which fermented liquid condiment used for flavouring, especially of grilled meats (and also used as an ingredient in cocktails and drinks) was first made by two dispensing chemists, John Wheeley Lea and William Henry Perrins? A: Worcestershire sauce
Q: "Where was the 1997 film ""The Full Monty"" based?" A: Sheffield
Q: Which athlete was criticised for whistling during his national anthem at the ceremony where he was awarded a gold medal in 1984 at Los Angeles? A: Daley Thompson
Q: When did homosexuality between consenting adults cease to be illegal in England and Wales? A: 1967
Q: What ship is commanded by the fictional pirate Jack Sparrow? A: Black Pearl
Q: What is the art and science of writing hidden messages in such a way that no one, apart from the sender and intended recipient, suspects the existence of the message? A: Steganography
Q: Peter Phillips, the only son of The Princess Anne, The Princess Royal and her first husband, Captain Mark Phillips, and the eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, married Autumn Kelly in 2008. Where did they meet? A: Montreal, Quebec
Q: "Which world welterweight boxing champion was reported in April 2010 to be standing for the Philippine Congress, for the political party called ""the People's Champ Movement""?" A: Manny Pacquiao
Q: What city is divided into 20 administrative areas which include Louvre, Temple, Htel-de-Ville, Panthon, Luxembourg, Elyse, Opra, Popincourt, Gobelins, Observatoire and Mnilmontant? A: Paris
Q: In 1867, William George Beers, a Canadian dentist, codified which sport (shortening the game and reducing the number of players to 12 per team), with the first game played under these rules at Upper Canada College between Upper Canada College and the Toronto Cricket Club? A: Lacrosse
Q: What is the tallest known volcano and mountain in the Solar System? A: Olympus Mons, on Mars
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""Quantum of ... """ A: Solace
Q: What country was forced to withdraw from the British Commonwealth in 1961 and was reinstated in 1994? A: South Africa
Q: Where was the industrial accident on 2-3 December 1984 that caused the deaths of 3,000 to 16,000 people, for which 7 ex-employees were convicted in June 2010 and sentenced to 2 years imprisonment & a fine of about US$2,000 each? A: Bhopal, India
Q: What is the colloquial name for people from Wiltshire, a county of South West England, that arose from a folk tale? A: Moonrakers
Q: What is a French word meaning false or fake? A: Faux
Q: A substance that attracts water molecules from the environment through either absorption or adsorption is called what? A: Hygroscopic
Q: "Following the publication of a story in the ""News of the World"" on 2 May 2010, the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association announced the immediate suspension of 3 time World Champion John Higgins. What was Higgins accused of?" A: Match fixing
Q: "Which rock musical includes the songs ""Skid Row (Downtown)"", ""Somewhere That's Green"", and ""Suddenly, Seymour""?" A: Little Shop of Horrors
Q: In the Republican calendar, introduced after the French Revolution, how many days were there in a week? A: 10
Q: What is the title of the head of government of Ireland, similar to that of a Prime Minister, who is nominated by the lower house and appointed by the President? A: The Taoiseach
Q: What English football club lost 8 players and 3 officials in the Munich air disaster of 1958? A: Manchester United
Q: "From 1925 to 1935, what did the letters ""MG"" on a make of English sports car signify?" A: Morris Garages
Q: Banff National Park and Jasper National Park, which are connected by the Icefields Parkway, are in which Canadian province? A: Alberta
Q: "In what sport is a ""triple salchow"" performed?" A: Figure skating
Q: On 25 June 1991, Slovenia and Croatia became the first republics to declare independence from which country? A: Yugoslavia
Q: Who did Uma Thurman marry in 1990? A: Gary Oldman
Q: What is the most abundant element in the earth's crust? A: Silicon
Q: What is the name for an area of land, of which there are about 310 in the USA, managed by a Native American tribe under the US Department of the Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs? A: Indian reservation
Q: Cyclops, Iceman, Angel, Beast and Jean Grey were the original members of which group of fictional characters? A: X-Men
Q: What marks a 40th wedding anniversary? A: Ruby
Q: Who was the first person to be recognised by the International Association of Athletics Federations as running the 1500 metres in under 3 minutes 30 seconds? A: Steve Cram
Q: Rubbing a balloon on one's hair and then sticking it to a wall is an example of what type of electricity? A: Static
Q: "The ""New Model Army"" was formed to fight in which war?" A: English Civil War
Q: The lands of Castile, which came to prominence in Europe in the 13th century, make up much of which modern country? A: Spain
Q: What is the name for a site serving as the final resting place of human skeletal remains, which is frequently used where burial space is scarce? A: Ossuary
Q: Where are the islands called Amherst, Bayfield, Greene, Simcoe, High Bluff, Nicholson, Waupoos and Wolfe? A: Lake Ontario
Q: What are raced in the Melbourne Cup? A: Horses
Q: The Rocky Mountains stretch over 3,000 miles from New Mexico to where? A: British Columbia
Q: What was the name given to actions by Timothy McVeigh on 19 April 1995 at the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building? A: The Oklahoma City bombing
Q: What is the name for a period that occurs about every 11 years when the sun's magnetic field lines are the most distorted? A: Solar maximum
Q: Which musical term denotes a repetitive oscillation about a single pitch that occurs in rapid cycles? A: Vibrato
Q: What is the stage name of Victoria Hesketh, an English electropop musician who sings and plays the keyboard, piano, stylophone and the Tenori-on? A: Little Boots
Q: Women's judo and what other sport debuted in the Olympic Games programme in 1992? A: Badminton
Q: Penfold is the sidekick of which British animated super hero / secret agent? A: DangerMouse
Q: Herpetophobia is a fear of what? A: Snakes
Q: Which story by Hans Christian Andersen involves Kai, Gerda and a splintered mirror? A: The Snow Queen
Q: In Olympic archery, the outer 2 circles on the target (called 1 ring and 2 ring) are what colour? A: White
Q: "Who plays Preston Burke in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Isaiah Washington
Q: Beginning in the late 15th century, expeditions mainly from Britain and which other country explored, and later settled, along the Atlantic coast of Canada? A: France
Q: "Which school is the setting for the 1955 film ""Blackboard Jungle""?" A: North Manual High School
Q: What is the northernmost point in all U.S. territory? A: Point Barrow, Alaska
Q: Which wonder of the ancient world was at Babylon? A: Hanging gardens
Q: Julie Burchill, Peter Arnett, P J O'Rourke and John Pilger are associated with which activity? A: Journalism
Q: How many points can you get in Pontoon without going bust? A: 21
Q: "Whose works include ""Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2"" (1912) and a parody of the ""Mona Lisa"" (1919) which shows a moustache and goatee attached to a cheap reproduction of the painting?" A: Marcel Duchamp
Q: Quakers are also known by what name? A: Society of Friends
Q: Karol Jzef Wojtya reached the high point of his career on 16 October 1978 as what? A: Pope
Q: Which festival in honour of a Roman god was forbidden in Rome in 186 BC? A: Bacchanalia
Q: "A 1969 American western film that tells the story of two bank robbers is ""Butch Cassidy and the ... what ... Kid""?" A: Sundance
Q: How many US states lie north of the Tropic of Cancer? A: 49
Q: The Sphinx is in which country? A: Egypt
Q: "What film is the source of the phrase, ""I'll get you, my pretty ... and your little dog too!""" A: The Wizard of Oz
Q: What native language would Jesus Christ have spoken? A: Aramaic
Q: Louis Goldenberg and Alva J. Fisher have been credited with the invention of what device? A: Electric washing machine
Q: On what continent is The Gambia? A: Africa
Q: "What is a ""marksman"" good at?" A: Shooting
Q: What is the largest city in the province of Saskatchewan, Canada? A: Saskatoon
Q: Susan Brown was the first woman to take part in what event, in 1981? A: The Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
Q: What is the holy book of Shintoism? A: Kojiki
Q: When did the USA officially enter World War II? A: 1941
Q: According to the Bible, Ham, Shem and Japheth were whose sons? A: Noah
Q: Where is the world's largest cave system with 345 km of mapped passageways? A: Kentucky, USA
Q: What gas is a component of common table salt? A: Chlorine
Q: "In the words of the old song, ""My old man said 'Follow the van, and don't ... what ... On the way' ""?" A: Dilly dally
Q: What is a word for a computer user's representation of themselves, usually in the form of a three-dimensional model used in computer games? A: Avatar
Q: What causes the sting caused by a nettle or an ant? A: Formic acid
Q: What airline, with a fleet of 55 aircraft, the flag carrier of Poland, was established in 1929, and is one of the world's oldest airlines still in operation? A: Polskie Linie Lotnicze
Q: First released in 1928, which animated cartoon was the first to feature Mickey & Minnie Mouse? A: Plane Crazy
Q: Marti Pellow was the lead singer of which band? A: Wet Wet Wet
Q: What temperature is the equivalent of 0 degrees Kelvin? A: -273.15 degrees Celsius
Q: Vellum, a type of parchment, was originally made from the skin of which animal? A: Calf
Q: Who was the first person to defeat Muhammad Ali during his professional career? A: Joe Frazier
Q: "Who is the lead singer of the American rock / ska-pop / reggae band ""No Doubt"", winners of 2 Grammy Awards, which was formed in Anaheim, California, in 1986?" A: Gwen Stefani
Q: Where is the Flavian Amphitheatre? A: Rome
Q: "Who were the two main characters in ""Bringing Up Father"", a comic strip created by George McManus that ran from January 1913 to May 2000 about an Irishman who comes into wealth in the USA but wants to live much as he used to?" A: Jiggs and Maggie
Q: What annual three day event held near Stamford, Lincolnshire, England, was first organised by the 6th Marquess of Exeter in 1961? A: Burghley Horse Trials
Q: On which island is the port of Heraklion? A: Crete
Q: In about 1,000 AD, it is believed that explorer Leif Ericson discovered North America and named it what? A: Vinland
Q: "Who invented infinitesimal calculus independently of Newton (and his notation has been in general use since then), invented the binary system, and promoted his philosophy of ""optimism"", that the universe is the best possible that God could have made?" A: Gottfried Leibniz
Q: The viola is tuned one fifth below the violin and therefore they have three strings tuned in common: G, D, and which other? A: A
Q: Which city's bid to hold the 2012 Olympics came second to London's? A: Paris
Q: What highly flammable metal, easy to ignite when powdered, producing a brilliant white light, and difficult to extinguish, being able to burn in both nitrogen and carbon dioxide, was used in incendiary weapons for firebombing cities in World War II and as a source of illumination in the early days of photography? A: Magnesium
Q: Laura was the name of the First Lady of which US president? A: George W Bush
Q: What is the title of a 2001 award winning documentary film directed by Sandi Simcha DuBowski about gay and lesbian Orthodox Jews trying to reconcile their sexuality with their faith? A: Trembling Before G-d
Q: Who has been married to actress Patricia Arquette (1995 to 2001), singer/songwriter Lisa Marie Presley (daughter of Elvis Presley, 2002 to 2004) and is now married to former waitress Alice Kim, with whom he has a son, Kal-El? A: Nicholas Cage
Q: David Seaman and David Beckham are connected with which sport? A: Soccer
Q: The Super Bowl, the championship game of the National Football League, was first played as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its rival, the American Football League, in what year? A: 1967
Q: "Which folk band formed by Randy Sparks in 1961 had several Top 40 hits, including ""This Land Is Your Land"", ""Green, Green"", ""Today"" and ""Ramblin'""?" A: The New Christy Minstrels
Q: What is equivalent to 4 quavers? A: Minim
Q: How many members are there in the US upper house, the Senate? A: 100
Q: Who was best known for his role as Dracula, a role he first took on in film in 1931? A: Bela Lugosi
Q: In 1956, a major uprising in Hungary was put down by forces from where? A: USSR
Q: In 2003, which planet passed 55.76 million km from earth, the closest since the Stone Age? A: Mars
Q: What is a small ceramic dish used for baking an individual portion? A: Ramekin
Q: "Who stars in the TV series ""Californication""?" A: David Duchovny
Q: "What day was proclaimed in 1945 as ""VE Day""?" A: 8 May
Q: An arctophile is a lover of what? A: Teddy bears
Q: "What is a type of jukebox featuring 16 mm film, for which films were made between 1958 [notably for songs by the Kessler Sisters (""Quando Quando""), The Tornados (""Telstar""), Neil Sedaka (""Calendar Girl""), Procol Harum (""A Whiter Shade of Pale""), Dionne Warwick (""Walk On By"") and Nancy Sinatra (""These Boots Are Made for Walkin'"")] until 1978?" A: Scopitone
Q: How many countries border Brazil? A: 10
Q: Cassius Chaerea led the assassination of which Roman emperor during the Palatine games in January 41AD? A: Caligula
Q: What is a starched, open-weave fabric, much like cheese cloth, that is used to wipe the ink off a plate during the intaglio inking process? A: Tarlatan
Q: Which 1945 Italian film about the Italian Resistance Movement, made on location during the war to a script by Roberto Rossellini, Sergio Amidei and Frederico Fellini, was virtually unnoticed in Italy but caused a stir when smuggled to New York and London? A: Rome, Open City
Q: Buckey O'Neill Cabin, Kolb Studio, El Tovar Hotel, Hopi House, Verkamp's Curios, Lookout Studio, Desert View Watchtower and Bright Angel Lodge are historical buildings located at which tourist destination? A: Grand Canyon
Q: Barack Obama is the first US president born outside the contiguous states of the USA. Where was he born? A: Hawaii
Q: "The international body called ""FIFA"" administers which sport?" A: Football
Q: Who became world Middleweight boxing champion by beating Sugar Ray Robinson in London on 10 July 1951 and lost the title to Robinson in New York on 12 September 1951? A: Randy Turpin
Q: What became the world's largest passenger ship by gross tonnage when it was delivered in October 2009? A: Oasis of the Seas
Q: "A best-selling album by Bruce Springsteen was ""Born in ..."" what?" A: The USA
Q: "What animal makes its home in a ""drey""?" A: Squirrel
Q: What sport is played in the Lamar Hunt US Open Cup Final, that has been held since 1914? A: Soccer
Q: Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space in what year? A: 1961
Q: Which president of the USA faced impeachment proceedings over his activities with Monica Lewinsky? A: Bill Clinton
Q: What is the chemical symbol for Nickel? A: Ni
Q: Where do Walloons come from? A: Belgium
Q: For what was Thomas Bewick renowned in the 18th century? A: Wood engraving
Q: Which old London market for cloth goods, founded by a charter from Henry I in 1133 and held annually at Smithfield and then Islington, was abolished in 1855 due to the disorderly rabble? A: Bartholomew Fair
Q: An ombrophobe or ombrophobous plant cannot withstand much what? A: Rain
Q: """Silly mid on"" and ""gully"" are positions in which sport?" A: Cricket
Q: What is an annual holiday in some parts of the world, celebrated on 31 October, that has its roots in the Celtic festival of Samhain and the Christian holy day of All Saints? A: Halloween
Q: "Which construction, designed by Finnish-American architect Eero Saarinen and structural engineer Hannskarl Bandel in 1947, that stands 630 feet (192 m) tall and is 630 feet (192 m) wide at its base, is called ""the tallest monument in the USA""?" A: The Gateway Arch, in St. Louis, Missouri,
Q: "Who is the boss of the fictional Inspector Clouseau of the French Sret in the ""Pink Panther"" series of films?" A: Chief Inspector Dreyfus
Q: New York businessman and gambler Arnold Rothstein was believed to have been behind baseball's Black Sox Scandal, in which the 1919 World Series was fixed, giving the series to which team? A: Cincinnati Reds
Q: In January 2006, what space probe was sent to investigate Pluto? A: New Horizon
Q: "Who headed up the ""Rolling Thunder Revue"", a US concert tour consisting of a travelling caravan of musicians including Joan Baez, Roger McGuinn, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Kinky Friedman & Bob Neuwirth, that took place in late 1975 / early 1976?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: "What word would you expect to find ""Lobster"" described as on a French menu?" A: Langouste
Q: Where was Expo 2010 held from 1 May to 31 October 2010, the most expensive Expo in the history of world's fairs with the largest site (5.28 square km), with more than 190 countries and over 50 international organisations participating? A: Shanghai, China
Q: Which country left the British Commonwealth in 1949? A: Ireland
Q: In September 2003, who was the first to cross the Atlantic Ocean in an open wicker basket beneath a hot air balloon? A: David Hempleman-Adams
Q: It is believed that the first of what type of business was opened in 1936 in Fort Worth, Texas by Noah Brannen? A: Washateria
Q: The modern Oxford-Cambridge University boating course runs from Putney to where? A: Mortlake
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 Muses was the muse of Dance? A: Terpsichore
Q: Ceramic items are made from what material? A: China
Q: What was the name of the ship used by Edward Teach, known as Blackbeard, an English pirate who operated around the West Indies and the east coast of the American colonies from 1717 to 1718? A: Queen Anne's Revenge
Q: Cramp affects what part of the body? A: Muscles
Q: According to Greek legend, Leander was visited nightly by whom, who swam across the Hellespont? A: Hero
Q: Dodge Morgan, who became famous in 1986 at age 54 when he sailed solo around the globe without stops in 150 days (breaking the record of 292 days), had become a millionaire by operating a company that manufactured what from 1971 to 1983? A: Radar detectors
Q: In Greek mythology, which winged horse sprang from the body of Medusa after her death? A: Pegasus
Q: "Which film, directed by John Ford and starring John Wayne, John Carradine and Claire Trevor, was indirectly based on Guy de Maupassant's story ""Boule de Suif""?" A: Stagecoach
Q: The village of Zermatt is close to what geographical feature? A: The Matterhorn
Q: What was tuberculosis previously known as? A: Consumption
Q: What is a fixed time of prayer of the Divine Office of almost all the traditional Christian liturgies, consisting mainly of psalms, said around 3 p.m.? A: None
Q: The counties of Clinton, Delaware, Erie, Essex, Franklin, Jefferson, Madison, Nassau, Ontario, Orange, Orleans, Saratoga, Seneca, Ulster, Washington, Westchester and Wyoming are in what state of the USA? A: New York
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 Muses was the muse of epic poetry? A: Calliope
Q: A state of Australia, one of the world's biggest waterfalls, a London railway station, Africa's largest lake and a large public park in Hong Kong are all named after whom? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Ernest Lawrence of the University of California, Berkeley, is credited with the development in 1929 of what type of particle accelerator that accelerates charged particles using a high-frequency, alternating voltage in a perpendicular magnetic field, causing them to spiral and encounter the accelerating voltage many times? A: Cyclotron
Q: "What ship, formerly called USS ""Phoenix"" which saw action in World War II, became the first to be sunk by a nuclear-powered submarine, in 1982?" A: "The Argentine cruiser ""General Belgrano"""
Q: What is the next number in the sequence 1, 7, 10, 13, 19, 23, 28, 31, 32, 44, 49, 68, 70, 79, 82, 86, 91, 94, 97, 100, 103, 109, 129, 130 ... ? A: 133
Q: Until the year 2000, how many US presidents had previously served as vice president? A: 14
Q: What was the occupation of William Kidd, who was hanged for it in 1701? A: Pirate
Q: What area was claimed as a colony by the German Empire in the late 19th century, became a League of Nations mandate administered by Australia, New Zealand and the UK after World War I, was occupied by Japanese troops during World War II, and became a trusteeship until it was declared independent in 1968? A: Nauru
Q: Raymond Blanc, Rick Stein and Graham Kerr are all associated with what activity? A: Cooking
Q: What are the first names of Torville and Dean, who were the highest ever scoring figure skaters for a single programme at the 1984 Winter Olympics? A: Jayne and Christopher
Q: What people traditionally dance a hornpipe? A: Sailors
Q: """Dae Jang Geum"" (2003), an internationally telecast TV series from South Korean TV channel MBC (entitled ""Jewel in the Palace"" in English-speaking countries) and loosely based on the Annals of Joseon Dynasty of Korea, focuses on a character with what occupation?" A: Physician
Q: In geometry, there is a name for convex polyhedrons that are regular, of which there are 5 types. Generically, what kind of solid are they called? A: Platonic
Q: Which abolitionist was hung in 1859 for his role in the Harper's Ferry Raid and played a major role in starting the Civil War? A: John Brown
Q: What is the next in this series: 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy ... ? A: Titus
Q: Which 31 minute documentary made in 1938, which asked for better housing, farm techniques and flood control and more electrical power, showed a great flood in the Mississippi River? A: The River
Q: "Who played Dorothy in the 1939 movie ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: Judy Garland
Q: The first recorded fatality of a car accident in the USA was Henry Bliss, on 13 September 1899. Where was it? A: New York City
Q: In 2008, Formula One World Champion Lewis Hamilton began dating Nicole Scherzinger, who made her name with which American pop/R&B; girl group and dance ensemble? A: Pussycat Dolls
Q: "What is a synonym for ""plethora""?" A: Abundance
Q: What was the stage name of American jazz singer and songwriter Eleanora Fagan? A: Billie Holiday
Q: The internal angles of a rectangle add up to how many degrees? A: 360
Q: What is the capital of the US state of Alaska? A: Juneau
Q: In which country do these laws apply: the 1975 State Protection Act (Article 10 b), which grants the government the power to imprison persons for up to five years without a trial, and the Law to Safeguard the State Against the Dangers of Those Desiring to Cause Subversive Acts (Article 10 a)? A: Myanmar
Q: What is a British comic strip character created by Reg Smythe, first published in August 1957, now written by Roger Mahoney (artist) and Roger Kettle (writer)? A: Andy Capp
Q: These are the last lines of which play: H: Shall the worms declare his truth? Go to him, take his shame away. E: He have his goodness now. God forbid I take it from him. A: """The Crucible"" by Arthur Miller"
Q: What book was published by Florence Nightingale in 1860? A: Notes on Nursing
Q: "Who ""ran through the town, upstairs and downstairs, in his nightgown""?" A: Wee Willie Winkie
Q: "Which famous American bodybuilder had the advertising slogan ""You too can have a body like mine""?" A: Charles Atlas
Q: The Stanley Cup Final is a best-of-seven playoff series to determine the National Hockey League champion. In the 200910 season, how many games were needed to decide the best of seven between the Philadelphia Flyers and the Chicago Blackhawks? A: 6
Q: "Opened in 1890, with 6 stations over 3.2 miles (5.1 km) and running in a pair of tunnels between the City of London and Stockwell passing under the River Thames, what was the first deep-level underground ""tube"" railway in the world, and the first major railway to use electric traction?" A: The City and South London Railway
Q: Where was the annual G8 leaders summit held in the year 2000? A: Japan
Q: What sport is associated with Vladimir Putin, the second President of the Russian Federation? A: Judo
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by a set of scales? A: Libra
Q: "In the James Bond film ""Thunderball"" who played Bond girl Domino Derval?" A: Claudine Auger
Q: What is the only US state that touches both the Great Lakes and the Atlantic Ocean? A: New York
Q: What scale is used for rating tornado intensity, based on the damage tornadoes inflict on human-built structures and vegetation? A: The Fujita scale
Q: How many defensive players are on a baseball field at any one time? A: 9
Q: On which island is the port of Messina? A: Sicily
Q: Which UK television series starred Ross Kemp as a tough SAS officer? A: Ultimate Force
Q: Gee Jon. a member of the Hip Sing Tong criminal society from San Francisco, California, sentenced to death for the murder of an elderly member from another gang in Nevada, was the first person in the US to do what? A: Be executed by lethal gas
Q: "Which jazz musician was known for his voluminous cheeks and ""bent"" trumpet?" A: Dizzy Gillespie
Q: Who is the patron saint of Wales? A: St David
Q: Who played eventual winners Chelsea in the FA Cup final in May 2010? A: Portsmouth
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""On Her Majesty's ... """ A: Secret Service
Q: Which European country has a flag that is not oblong? A: Switzerland
Q: The islands of Zanzibar and Madagascar are in which ocean? A: Indian
Q: The House of Representatives of which country unanimously voted to become a secular and inclusive democratic republic on 28 May 2008, giving the King 15 days to vacate the palace, to re-open it as a public museum? A: Nepal
Q: Biz Stone, Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey were involved with the launch of what computer application? A: Twitter
Q: The cities of Ciudad Jurez, El Paso, Laredo and Brownsville are on the banks of which river? A: Rio Grande
Q: "After the mutiny on the ""Bounty"", Fletcher Christian and his men took women from where to colonise Pitcairn Island?" A: Tahiti
Q: Which album by the Arctic Monkeys was the fastest selling album in UK chart history? A: Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not
Q: Betsy Ross was a figure in the history of the USA in what century? A: 18th
Q: Which Stoke City, Blackpool and England player was the first European Footballer of the Year in 1956? A: Stanley Matthews
Q: What series of books would you go to to read about Snowy, Captain Haddock, Professor Calculus and Thomson and Thompson? A: The Adventures of Tintin
Q: Ball, fork and sheet are all types of what? A: Lightning
Q: Lake Titicaca is on which continent? A: South America
Q: "In 1964, who became the first male to appear on the cover of ""Playboy"" magazine?" A: Peter Sellers
Q: General Stanley Allen McChrystal, who had led all forces in Afghanistan since 15 June 2009, was relieved of his command on 23 June 2010 after he made unflattering remarks about US presidential administration officials in an article in which magazine? A: Rolling Stone
Q: World War I was triggered when Germany invaded which country? A: Belgium
Q: "Who sang on a record released in November 2010, ""Boom boom boom, even brighter than the moon moon moon""?" A: Katy Perry
Q: Barry Bonds is an all-time great in what sport? A: Baseball
Q: What is the name for the hair that surrounds a lion's neck? A: Mane
Q: What is the title given to the widow of the holder of a title which has been passed on to another? A: Dowager
Q: Oberon is a moon of which planet? A: Uranus
Q: Who holds the records as the youngest and oldest winner in the Men's singles at the Australian Open tennis tournament? A: Ken Rosewall
Q: "These are the first lines from what song: ""There's a saying old, says that love is blind, Still we're often told, ""seek and ye shall find""', So I'm going to seek a certain lad I've had in mind""?" A: Someone to Watch Over Me
Q: Olympic gold medallists Vilhelm Carlberg, Gunde Svan, Agneta Andersson, Sixten Jernberg, Tomas Gustafson, Thomas Wassberg, Ingemar Stenmark, Gert Fredriksson, Henri Saint Cyr, Alfred Swahn, Eric Lemming and Oscar Swahn represented which country? A: Sweden
Q: On 14 November 1910, Eugene Burton Ely was the first to do what in an aeroplane? A: Take off from a ship
Q: What river runs through Phoenix, Arizona, USA? A: Salt River
Q: "The song ""Invisible Sun"" was banned by the BBC in 1981. Who was the artist?" A: Police
Q: "Who said ""All I need to make a comedy is a park, a policeman and a pretty girl""?" A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: The Sabine River forms the border of Texas with what other area? A: Louisiana
Q: "The song ""I Whistle A Happy Tune"" is from which musical?" A: The King and I
Q: In the human body, what does melanin determine? A: Skin colour
Q: The Volstead Act, that became law in the USA on 28 October 1919, concerned what? A: Prohibition of alcohol
Q: "According to the Edward Lear, before ""they danced by the light of the moon"", the Owl and the Pussycat ""dined on mince, and slices of quince"". What did they eat with?" A: A runcible spoon
Q: What was the name given to people who went to California to join in the goldrush in the mid 19th century? A: 49ers
Q: "Who painted the famous paintings known as ""Children at the Beach at Guernsey"", ""Dance at Le Moulin de la Galette"", ""The Swing"" and ""The Theater Box""?" A: Renoir
Q: What film character was created by Paul Hogan? A: Crocodile Dundee
Q: Which mythical figure carries a scythe? A: The Grim Reaper
Q: What is the technical term for double vision? A: Diplopia
Q: What nationality was Alfred Nobel, founder of the Nobel prize? A: Swedish
Q: The Wimbledon tennis tournament that takes place annually in late June and early July runs for how long? A: Two weeks
Q: What is the name of a famous concerto by Vivaldi? A: The Four Seasons
Q: Benjamin Franklin is usually credited with the creation of the first pair of what items of optical equipment in the early 1760s? A: Bifocals
Q: "What sport is featured in the film ""Field of Dreams"" starring Kevin Costner?" A: Baseball
Q: "In the phoenetic alphabet, what is represented by the letter ""J""?" A: Juliet
Q: Which compound on the surface of Mars makes it appear red? A: Iron oxide
Q: "Who played Neil, the hippie, clinically depressed, pacifist, vegetarian and environmentalist who is victimised by other housemates in the UK TV series ""The Young Ones""?" A: Nigel Planer
Q: Where was the Maguindanao massacre on 23 November 2009, when 58 victims, including a politician's wife, his two sisters, journalists, lawyers, aides, and motorists who were witnesses, were kidnapped and brutally killed? A: Philippines
Q: "What dish would you expect if you asked for ""funghi"" in an Italian restaurant?" A: Mushrooms
Q: "Who played ""Sandy"" in the 1975 film ""Grease""?" A: Olivia Newton-John
Q: In a general election in 1990, the National League for Democracy party won 59% of the national votes and 80% of the seats in Parliament, but did not get into power. Which country was this? A: Myanmar
Q: US baseball player Pete Rose was accused in 1989 of (and he confessed in 2004 to) what, that has made him ineligible to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame? A: Betting on baseball
Q: "What constellation is sometimes called ""the Chained Lady"", ""the Chained Woman"" ""Perseus's wife"" or ""Cepheus's daughter""?" A: Andromeda
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is named after a divine hero in Greek mythology whose homeland was Troy who was abducted by Zeus in the form of an eagle to serve as cupbearer to the gods and as Zeus's beloved? A: Ganymede
Q: Basel, Strasbourg, Karlsruhe, Mannheim, Mainz, Koblenz, Bonn, Cologne and Dsseldorf are on which river? A: Rhine
Q: Ansel Adams and Terence Donovan were prominent in what field? A: Photography
Q: "Who plays Meredith Grey in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Ellen Pompeo
Q: What was the name of the last of the six space shuttles that was built? A: Endeavour
Q: The US Civil War was fought between the Union Army and which other? A: Confederate
Q: In online gaming, what is the term for a multi-user real-time virtual world described in text that combines elements of role-playing games, hack and slash, interactive fiction, and online chat that were the forerunners of modern games like World of Warcraft, and social virtual worlds such as Second Life? A: MUD
Q: "In Jane Austen's ""Pride and Prejudice"", what was Mr Darcy's first name?" A: Fitzwilliam
Q: Which dog appears in comics with Shaggy, Fred, Velma & Daphne? A: Scooby-Doo
Q: What name is given to the list of all the accounts contained in the ledger of a business and their values, from which most financial reports are produced? A: Trial balance
Q: "In the James Bond film ""From Russia with Love"" who played Bond girl Tatiana Romanova?" A: Daniela Bianchi
Q: Which car maker has marketed models called Passat and Golf? A: Volkswagen
Q: Who won the Super Bowl in 2006? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: Which claimant to the Kingdoms of England and Ireland was de facto monarch of England after the death of Edward VI for just over a week in July 1553, and was executed in 1554? A: Lady Jane Grey
Q: "Who created the comic strip ""The Far Side""?" A: Gary Larson
Q: What is the closest city to the Large Hadron Collider, the world's most powerful particle accelerator? A: Geneva, Switzerland
Q: The Mason-Dixon line, which came to symbolise the cultural boundary between the Northern and Southern United States, was originally surveyed to define the border between Maryland and which other state? A: Pennsylvania
Q: Which religion features the Five Duties or the Five Pillars? A: Islam
Q: What award is the equivalent of the Oscars for the music industry? A: Grammys
Q: What river runs through Memphis, Tennessee, USA? A: Mississippi
Q: What name is given to the group of elements that includes fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine? A: Halogens
Q: Larry Page and Sergey Brin started what computer application? A: Google
Q: "World War I flying ace Baron von Richtofen, the Red Baron, was credited with how many ""kills"" before he himself was killed?" A: 80
Q: What was the name of Michael Jackson's pet chimpanzee? A: Bubbles
Q: In which war was the napalm incendiary bomb first used? A: World War II
Q: "What TV sitcom was originally intended to be called ""The Fighting Tigers""?" A: Dad's Army
Q: "Who appeared in the films ""Gigli"", ""Jersey Girl"", ""El Cantante"" and ""The Back-Up Plan""?" A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: In what year did Germany officially reunify? A: 1990
Q: What is the word for a piece of material that is used to mend a hole in an item of clothing? A: Patch
Q: Mstislav Rostropovich is most associated with which musical instrument? A: Cello
Q: What film about racial prejudice in the USA by Clarence Brown, from a novel by William Faulkner, involved a black boy, a white boy and an old woman assisting a black man accused of murder? A: Intruder In The Dust
Q: Which vehicle maker has marketed models called Corolla, Corona, Celica and Camry? A: Toyota
Q: "The term ""Hispanic"" means relating to what country?" A: Spain
Q: Who invented the ferris wheel? A: George Washington Ferris
Q: The islands of Alderney, Herm, Jethou, Brecqhou, Burhou, Lihou and Sark are administered directly by a government based where? A: The island of Guernsey
Q: "In 1970, who began to popularise a style of journalism known as ""Gonzo journalism""?" A: Hunter S. Thompson
Q: In which war did the British army first deploy tanks? A: World War I
Q: Who was Attorney General of the USA from 1961 to 1964, US Senator for New York from 1965 to 1968, and was assassinated while running for president in 1968? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: "Who created the statue of ""David"", which is held in Florence's Academia Gallery?" A: Michelangelo
Q: "Who played gangster Don Logan in the 2000 film ""Sexy Beast""?" A: Ben Kingsley
Q: The Basilica of Santa Maria Novella, the Uffizi, the Pitti Palace, the Fontana del Nettuno and the Boboli Gardens are in what city? A: Florence
Q: What is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for the islands of Tuvalu? A: .tv
Q: Which character in European folklore murdered his wives? A: Bluebeard
Q: Which constellation, that lies between Cancer and Virgo, contains the stars called Regulus, Denebola, Regulus, Wolf 359, Gliese 436, and Algieba? A: Leo
Q: "Something tense and exciting is what ""biting""?" A: Nail
Q: Auguste Escoffier was famous for what activity? A: Cookery
Q: What was the occupation of Samuel Ryder, after whom The Ryder Cup is named? A: Seed merchant
Q: According to the Guinness Book of Records, what film became, in 1995, the biggest box office failure? A: Cutthroat Island
Q: Which virus, which interferes with the endothelial cells lining the interior surface of blood vessels and coagulation causing hypovolemic shock, first emerged in 1976 in Zaire and came to international attention in 1989 after a widely publicized outbreak in Virginia, USA? A: Ebola
Q: What is the nickname of the Australia national rugby league team? A: Kangaroos
Q: "Who composed ""The Radetzky March""?" A: Johann Strauss the Elder
Q: The main aims of which society in Great Britain between 1838 and 1850 were, basically: a vote for every man 21 years of age, a secret ballot, no property qualification for Members of Parliament, payment of MPs, equal Constituencies, and annual parliaments? A: Chartists
Q: Which Caribbean country, consisting of two main islands, is the smallest nation in the Western hemisphere? A: St Kitts and Nevis
Q: Who got the vote in Britain in 1829? A: Roman Catholics
Q: Over 40% of the population of the US state of Alaska live in which city? A: Anchorage
Q: What is the evening prayer service in the Western Catholic, Eastern (Byzantine) Catholic, and Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, and Lutheran churches? A: Vespers
Q: In cartography, the method by which a spherical shape is represented as a rectangle was invented by whom? A: Gerardus Mercator
Q: What is the nickname of the Australian national basketball team? A: Boomers
Q: Who has played (on film) Queen Elizabeth I twice, Galadriel three times, Katharine Hepburn and Veronica Guerin? A: Cate Blanchett
Q: On a Monopoly board, what is the symbol for the electric company? A: Light bulb
Q: Elk Island National Park, Wood Buffalo National Park, and the Columbia Icefield are in which Canadian province? A: Alberta
Q: What is the term for a wine with harsh and pronounced flavours? A: Aggressive
Q: What area of Tokyo is one of the most luxurious shopping districts in the world? A: Ginza
Q: Who was the Princess of Tyre who, after her brother Pygmalion killed her husband Sichaeus, fled to Africa where she founded Carthage? A: Dido
Q: From 1956 to 1968 Al Oerter won gold medals in every Olympics in what sport? A: Discus
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by a bull? A: Taurus
Q: How many coronations had been held at Westminster Abbey before that of Queen Elizabeth II? A: 37
Q: Where was the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales, and Lady Diana Frances Spencer on 29 July 1981, held? A: St Paul's Cathedral
Q: Where is the Sea of Serenity? A: On the Moon
Q: Marcel Duchamp, whose work was associated with the Dadaist and Surrealist movements, abandoned his successful career as an artist in the later part of his life to do what? A: Play chess
Q: By what name does history better know 11th-century Castilian military leader Rodrigo Daz de Vivar? A: El Cid
Q: "What was ""the worlds first full-scale atomic electric power plant devoted exclusively to peacetime uses,"" that went online in 1957?" A: Shippingport
Q: What was the only painting that Vincent van Gogh sold while he was alive? A: Red Vineyard
Q: The American War of Independence began as a war between the Kingdom of Great Britain and how many British colonies in North America? A: 13
Q: "According to a quote from William Congreve's play ""The Mourning Bride"" (1697), spoken by Zara in Act 3, Scene 2, ""Heaven has no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor hell a fury like a woman ... "" what?" A: Scorned
Q: Helen of Troy was abducted from where? A: Sparta
Q: In 1951 and 1952, American Jim Fuchs won 88 consecutive meetings and set four world records in what sport? A: Shot put
Q: The Tyrol is a region in which mountain range? A: Alps
Q: In which 2001 film is the death of Sir William McCordle, Bt (played by Sir Michael Gambon) investigated by Inspector Thomson (Stephen Fry) and Constable Dexter (Ron Webster)? A: Gosford Park
Q: What are the young of a frog called? A: Tadpole
Q: Which Soviet gymnast won the most medals in her career? A: Larissa Latynina
Q: What was the name of the 1571 sea battle when a fleet of the Holy League, a coalition of Spain (including Naples, Sicily and Sardinia), the Republic of Venice, the Papacy, the Republic of Genoa, the Duchy of Savoy, the Knights Hospitaller and others, decisively defeated the main fleet of the Ottoman Empire? A: The Battle of Lepanto
Q: "What is the first line of the hymn ""Jerusalem""?" A: And did those feet in ancient time
Q: What was the nickname for the German L14 Howitzer, used in World War I? A: Big Bertha
Q: "What science features in ""Proof"", a play by David Auburn?" A: Mathematics
Q: "The area that was known as ""Cimarron Territory"" to 1890 is now known as what part of the USA?" A: The Oklahoma panhandle
Q: "What is another name for ""fishing""?" A: Angling
Q: "What is the setting for the Steven Spielberg film ""Jaws""?" A: Amity Island
Q: Which nation produces the most coffee beans? A: Brazil
Q: What part of the body is affected by dermatitis? A: Skin
Q: Who created the character of Dame Edna Everage? A: Barry Humphries
Q: What was the Watergate building that was the subject of a US political scandal that began in 1972? A: Office building
Q: According to the Islamic calendar, during which month were the first verses of the Qur'an revealed to the Islamic Prophet Muhammad? A: Ramadan
Q: What is the official language of New Caledonia A: French
Q: What is the technique of mechanically widening a narrowed or obstructed blood vessel whereby tightly folded balloons are passed into the narrowed locations and then inflated to a fixed size using water pressures some 75 to 500 times normal blood pressure (6 to 20 atmospheres)? A: Angioplasty
Q: What does an anthropologist study? A: Human beings
Q: What is the national anthem of the UK? A: God Save the Queen
Q: Who married tennis player John McEnroe in 1986? A: Tatum O'Neal
Q: A live episode of which TV soap opera was broadcast on BBC One on 19 February 2010, to celebrate 25 years since the broadcast of the first episode? A: EastEnders
Q: Felipe Caldern became President of which country on 1 December 2006? A: Mexico
Q: Which plant is commonly used as a herbal treatment for depression? A: St. Johns Wort
Q: What is the name of the British rugby international touring team? A: Lions
Q: Alberto Vargas specialised in painting what subjects? A: Pin up girls
Q: Where was the astronomer Copernicus born? A: Poland
Q: Which of Little Red Riding Hood's relations was eaten by a wolf? A: Grandma
Q: What name is given to the 4 mile (6.4 km) stretch of Las Vegas Boulevard which is mainly in the unincorporated communities of Paradise and Winchester? A: The Strip
Q: In what decade was the Korean War? A: 1950s
Q: The game of Sudoku involves filling in squares with what numbers? A: 1 to 9
Q: "Shakespeare's ""Romeo and Juliet"" is mainly set in what city?" A: Verona
Q: The John F. Kennedy International Airport is located in what American city? A: New York
Q: In 1999, who became Britain's first undisputed boxing heavyweight world champion? A: Lennox Lewis
Q: What is the stage name of Roberta Joan Anderson, whose recording career began in 1968? A: Joni Mitchell
Q: Which infectious disease, usually occuring in childhood, is characterised by eruptions of successive crops of vesicles? A: Chickenpox
Q: The followers of John Wycliffe in the 14th and 15th century were known as what? A: Lollards
Q: What colour is Bob the Builder's hat? A: Yellow
Q: What fishing method used to catch salmon, mackerel and kingfish, involves drawing one or more fishing lines, baited with lures or bait fish, through the water? A: Trolling
Q: "A ""bench press"" is used in what activity?" A: Body building
Q: What causes the deposit of rocks and other matter called moraine on the earth's surface? A: Glaciers
Q: "What is the name of the character played by Charlie Sheen in the TV series ""Two and a Half Men""?" A: Charlie Harper
Q: Bill and Hilary Clinton and Jim and Susan McDougal were implicated in what financial scandal that was investigated by the US Justice Department in 1994? A: Whitewater
Q: In 2001, which actor was re-elected president of the USA's National Rifle Association for a fourth term? A: Charlton Heston
Q: "The First Lady of which US president was known as ""Lady Bird""?" A: Lyndon B. Johnson
Q: What is it called when all the pins fall on the first bowl of an Indoor Bowling game ? A: Strike
Q: Who was the youngest person to be elected president of the USA? A: John Kennedy
Q: What character is played by Michael Douglas in two films released in 1987 and 2010? A: Gekko
Q: Who was the manager of the English national football team from 1963 until he was sacked in 1974? A: Alf Ramsey
Q: Archimedes' name is still used today to describe what type of mechanical device? A: Screw
Q: Built in 1765, what is the oldest commissioned warship in the world, still manned by the British Royal Navy? A: Victory
Q: What is a statement or group of statements that leads to a contradiction or a situation which defies intuition? A: Paradox
Q: For which site have there have been several proposals to create a channel to the Mediterranean Sea or the Nile so that water can flow into a series of hydro-electric penstocks, which would release the water 90m below sea level where it would evaporate? A: The Qattara Depression
Q: Mickey Hargitay, the second husband of leading blonde sex symbol of the 1950s Jayne Mansfield, was famous for winning what in 1955? A: Mr. Universe
Q: Mercury and Venus are known as the two what? A: Inferior planets
Q: Who led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott, co-founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in 1957, led the 1963 March on Washington and, in 1964, became the youngest person to receive the Nobel Peace Prize for his work to end segregation and racial discrimination through civil disobedience and other non-violent means? A: Martin Luther King, Jr.
Q: What is another name for athlete's foot? A: Tinea pedis
Q: According to the Brothers Grimm, what was the name of the dwarfish creature who appeared to a young woman shut in a tower to spin straw into gold? A: Rumpelstiltskin
Q: "In Walt Disney's ""Snow White"", which dwarf was completely bald, with not even a beard?" A: Dopey
Q: Argentinian David Nalbandian is a professional player of what sport? A: Tennis
Q: Who was the first British monarch to visit the United States of America? A: King George VI
Q: Which country has the largest area and population in South America? A: Brazil
Q: "Which singer recorded ""Unforgettable"" in 1951, which his daughter, Natalie Cole made into a duet with herself in 1991?" A: Nat King Cole
Q: Bags, Burrino, Casareccio di Gorreto, Crema, Double Gloucester, Gioda, Lancashire, Pierino, Sakura and Tabor are all types of what? A: Cheese
Q: In 1971, on which island was the largest underground test of nuclear weapons ever conducted by the USA? A: Amchitka
Q: What is the nickname of the Australian national netball team? A: Diamonds
Q: "In 1987, competing in ""Star Search"", a US talent competition on which she used the name Alanis Nadine, she lost after one round. She is now better known as Alanis who?" A: Morissette
Q: What transparent, biconvex structure changes shape to change the focal distance of the eye so that it can focus on objects at different distances? A: Lens
Q: Umberto II was the last king of which country? A: Italy
Q: What city has more than one hundred kilometres of canals (the main ones called Herengracht, Prinsengracht, and Keizersgracht), which were dug in the 17th century to form concentric belts around the city, known as the grachtengordel? A: Amsterdam
Q: "In his autobiography ""Life"", what does Keith Richards say is his nickname for Mick Jagger?" A: Brenda
Q: Which comic strip written and illustrated by Bill Watterson, first run from 1985 to 1995, follows the antics of a precocious six-year-old boy and his sardonic stuffed tiger? A: Calvin and Hobbes
Q: What international yachting regatta organised by the Royal Ocean Racing Club, competed for between 3 boats for each national team, based at Cowes on the Isle of Wight off southern England, was a biennial event from 1957 to 1999? A: The Admiral's Cup
Q: In 1692, Sarah Good, Elizabeth Howe, Susannah Martin, Sarah Wildes, Rebecca Nurse, Martha Carrier, George Jacobs Sr., George Burroughs, John Willard, John Procter and others were executed in connection with what? A: Witchcraft
Q: Which river flows through or forms the border of Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Ukraine? A: Danube
Q: By what name was Rocco Francis Marchegiano heavyweight boxing world champion from September 1952, to April 1956 better known? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: The olfactory organs are concerned with the sense of what? A: Smell
Q: Who was the principal villan in the 2004 movie 'Spider-Man 2'? A: Dr. Otto Octavius
Q: "What is the road featured in the ""Wizard of Oz""?" A: Yellow Brick Road
Q: What is the name for a net of fine lines or fibers in the eyepiece of a sighting device, such as a telescope, a telescopic sight, a microscope, or the screen of an oscilloscope? A: Reticle
Q: Frank Dekum, a 19th-century banker in Portland, Oregon, contributed money to import what to Oregon? A: German song birds
Q: "A ""pass"" is the way that the ball is put into play in which game?" A: Hockey
Q: What playwright was jailed for stealing and defacing books from the Islington Library? A: Joe Orton
Q: What is the standard measure of quantity used in the oil production industry? A: Barrel
Q: What is the popular name for Beethoven's piano sonata in C Sharp Minor? A: Moonlight Sonata
Q: "What musical instrument is used to indicate that someone has ""cooked the books""?" A: Fiddle
Q: "Which actress received an Oscar nomination for her role in the film ""Trans America""?" A: Felicity Huffman
Q: What film starred Michael Caine in the 1966 version and Jude Law in the 2004 version? A: Alfie
Q: 16 of what pieces are on a chess board at the start of a game? A: Pawns
Q: What was the name of the result of a nationwide census of virtually everything in Britain that was ordered by William I in 1085? A: The Domesday Book
Q: Pete Wentz is best known for being the bassist for which American rock band? A: Fall Out Boy
Q: What was the painter Monet's first name? A: Claude
Q: The islands of Fiji, Tonga, Hawaii and New Caledonia are in which ocean? A: Pacific
Q: "What, in ancient Rome, was a ""sudatorium""?" A: Sauna
Q: Lladro porcelain comes from what country? A: Spain
Q: "Where was Eric ""Butterbean"" Esch's mixed martial arts bout with Mariusz Pudzianowski on 18 September 2010, where an incomplete rendition of ""The Star-Spangled Banner"", with wrong and incomplete words, made news around the world?" A: Lodz, Poland
Q: What term is used to describe a wine with noticeable acidity that is balanced with enough fruit structure so as not to taste overly acidic? A: Zippy
Q: Which US city has the same name as the state that it is in? A: New York
Q: What was the name of the character played by Michael Caine in a 2009 film, an elderly former Royal Marine and Northern Ireland veteran who tries to be indifferent about his violent neighbourhood on an Elephant and Castle housing estate? A: Harry Brown
Q: In September 2010 Lady Gaga attracted attention by posing in a bikini for the cover of Japan's Hommes Vogue magazine and appearing on stage at the MTV Video Music Awards wearing a dress made of what? A: Meat
Q: The wedding of Prince William of Wales and Kate Middleton is the 10th royal wedding to be held at Westminster Abbey. The first was that of Princess Patricia of Connaught to the Hon. Alexander Ramsay, which was in what year? A: 1919
Q: What is the word for the point on the Earth's surface that is directly above the point where an earthquake or underground explosion originates? A: Epicentre
Q: Who became president of Iraq in May 2005? A: Jalal Talabani
Q: In the UK, General Elections are usually held on what day of the week? A: Thursdays
Q: What name is given to the unnatural fear of death? A: Thanatophobia
Q: Which boxer bit both of Evander Holyfield's ears in a fight for the WBA World Heavyweight Championship on 28 June 1997? A: Mike Tyson
Q: "According to a musical by Gilbert and Sullivan, whose ""lot is not a happy one""?" A: Policeman's
Q: After his defeat at Waterloo, to where was Napoleon exiled? A: St Helena
Q: In which country is the city of Wells? A: England
Q: In Britain, a portcullis has been used on whose stationery since 1967? A: House of Commons
Q: Which English novelist was arranged to be released from prison in 1703 by Robert Harley, 1st Earl of Oxford and Mortimer, and was employed by him as a spy? A: Daniel Defoe
Q: Which National Basketball Association team, whose colours are purple, gold and white, use purple uniforms for road games and gold uniforms for home games, with white jerseys for Sunday and holiday home games? A: Los Angeles Lakers
Q: What is added to steel to make stainless steel? A: Chromium
Q: Who is the only person to receive 2 Oscars for the same role? A: Harold Russell
Q: According to the Bible, who visited Solomon? A: The Queen of Sheba
Q: Ratatouille is native to which country? A: France
Q: "In 2009, Kelly Clarkson released a song that included the lyric: ""You got a piece of me, And honestly, My life would ... ""what"" ... without you'""?" A: Suck
Q: Ophanin, piscivorin, ablomin, latisemin and triflin, cysteine-rich secretory proteins that can reduce muscle contractions, are naturally found where? A: Snake venom
Q: In Michelangelo's painting on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, whose hand extends to the hand of Adam? A: God
Q: """It's still the same old story, the fight for love and glory"" are lines from the theme song for which film?" A: Casablanca
Q: "Who had a famous chestnut horse named ""Copenhagen""?" A: Duke of Wellington
Q: How many pedals are standard on a grand piano in the USA? A: 3
Q: The Beaufort Sea constitutes part of which ocean? A: Arctic
Q: With which sport is Nadia Comneci associated? A: Gymnastics
Q: What holds the records as the world's longest-running science fiction television show? A: Dr Who
Q: "A ""monitor"" is a type of what?" A: Lizard
Q: Japatis are part of the cuisine of which country? A: India
Q: What nickname was given to Mary Mallon, who infected a known 53 people working as a cook in New York and, in 1907, was the first healthy typhoid carrier to be identified? A: Typhoid Mary
Q: Which amendment to the US constitution provides freedom of religion, assembly, speech and the press? A: First
Q: "The home of the drink called ""bourbon"" is Bourbon County. What state of the USA is it in?" A: Kentucky
Q: What is the name for money obtained from illegal activities? A: Ill gotten gains
Q: Franz Ferdinand, whose assassination triggered World War I, was a member of which family? A: Hapsburg
Q: "In cricket, what term is used to describe the situation when a batsman is ""out"" from the first ball they face?" A: Golden duck
Q: Hawaii is in which ocean? A: Pacific
Q: Which Irish playwright was awarded the Croix de Guerre and the Mdaille de la Rsistance by the French government for his efforts in fighting the German occupation as part of the French resistance in World War II? A: Samuel Beckett
Q: "According to Greek mythology, ""Hope"" was the only thing left in what container after it had been opened?" A: Pandora's box
Q: """Parsifal"" was the last opera by which composer?" A: Wagner
Q: "A ""marlin"" is a type of what?" A: Fish
Q: The Hudson River forms the boundary between the states of New York and what other? A: New Jersey
Q: What natural ice 1,212.5 metre (3,978 ft) long racing sled run in the Swiss town of St. Moritz, based on a river, was built in 1884? A: Cresta Run
Q: The English town of Hay-on-Wye is famous for a festival featuring what? A: Books
Q: In June 1944, the names Juno, Omaha, Sword, Utah & Gold were given to what? A: Beaches
Q: Florence is the capital of what Italian region? A: Tuscany
Q: """Poison arrow"" or ""poison dart"" is what type of creature?" A: Frog
Q: "Who introduced the term ""horsepower"" in a scientific context?" A: James Watt
Q: What is old Delhi's military fort, built by Shah Jahan, known as? A: The Red Fort
Q: "The Individual World Championships for which sport, the first of which was in 2005 and are held every two years, include events called ""Constant Weight"", ""Constant Weight Without Fins"", ""Free Immersion"", ""Variable Weight"", ""Static"", ""Dynamic"" and ""Dynamic No Fins""?" A: Freediving
Q: Anne Geddes, an Australian-born photographer and clothing designer, is known for her stylized depictions of what? A: Babies and motherhood
Q: "What do Americans call what the English call ""chips""?" A: French fries
Q: What is the world's largest carnivore species found on land, which is native to the north of the northern hemisphere? A: Polar bear
Q: The 1975 Australian constitutional crisis culminated on 11 November with the removal of which Australian Labor Party Prime Minister by Governor-General Sir John Kerr, and the appointment of the Leader of the Opposition, Malcolm Fraser, as caretaker Prime Minister? A: Gough Whitlam
Q: The Eddystone Rocks are 14 miles from which part of the UK? A: Plymouth
Q: What was the title of Lily Allen's first full single release? A: Smile
Q: According to the Bible's old testament, what was deciphered by Daniel? A: The writing on the wall
Q: "What breed of dog was the subject of the 1992 film ""Beethoven""?" A: St Bernard
Q: What is the star sign of someone born on Christmas Day? A: Capricorn
Q: What river flows under the Ponte Vecchio, a Medieval bridge noted for still having shops built along it? A: Arno
Q: In which US state did the siege of the Alamo take place? A: Texas
Q: Who married Jacqueline Bouvier in 1953? A: John F Kennedy
Q: What do cygnets grow up to be? A: Swans
Q: Roger Bannister ran what distance in the record-breaking time of under 4 minutes at Oxford in 1954 over what distance? A: Mile
Q: Which US state consists of two separate peninsulas, separated by the Straits of Mackinac, a five-mile (8 km)-wide channel? A: Michigan
Q: "A ""moog"" was what type of instrument?" A: Synthesizer
Q: Who was Christopher Robin's favourite bear? A: Winnie the Pooh
Q: What is the name used for the young of a kangaroo? A: Joey
Q: What territory was sold by Russia under Tsar Alexander II in 1867, for about 1.9 per acre ($4.74/km2), a total of US$7.2 million? A: Alaska
Q: From the landing of Pedro lvares Cabral in 1500 until its independence in 1822, Brazil was a colony of which nation? A: Portugal
Q: Which city hosted the 1972 Olympics? A: Munich
Q: Where is the only population of wild apes in Europe? A: Gibraltar
Q: Harry Osborn is the offsider to which comic book superhero? A: Spiderman
Q: "Who was ""the fourth man"" in the Cambridge spy ring, whose name was not publicly known until 1979?" A: Anthony Blunt
Q: In World War I, what was the third battle of Ypres, from 31 July to 6 November 6, 1917, also known as? A: The Battle of Passchendaele
Q: Sitting Bull was chief of what group? A: Sioux
Q: What 1963 political scandal in the UK involved the Secretary of State for War, after he had a brief relationship with the mistress of a Russian spy (a showgirl named Christine Keeler), and lied to the House of Commons about it? A: The Profumo Affair
Q: The first nationally formalised rules for which sport were drawn up by the Gaelic Athletic Association in Ireland in 1884, and now has two sets of rules, the other being . administered by the NRA in Great Britain, which was formed in 1943? A: Rounders
Q: Where is the US National Archives, which holds the original documents of the US Constitution and the US Declaration of Independence? A: Washington, DC
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, where does the Muffin Man live? A: In Drury Lane
Q: "What word's original meaning was ""the hearing of a person's confession and their absolution before their execution""?" A: Shrift
Q: Alsace, Aquitaine, Auvergne, Bourgogne, Bretagne, Limousin and Lorraine are all regions of which country? A: France
Q: Where are the pleurae, bronchi and alveoli? A: Lungs
Q: What was the surname of the family who looked after Paddington Bear? A: Brown
Q: What is a word for a deep narrow valley? A: Gorge
Q: "What 4 part UK television series frequently contained the line ""You might very well think that: I couldn't possibly comment""?" A: House of Cards
Q: John Scopes was put on trial in 1925 in the USA for teaching the theories of which scientist? A: Darwin
Q: Who was the subject of a 4 week inquiry by the US Atomic Energy Commission in 1954 into his background, actions and associations, due to suspicions that he was a member of the Communist Party and might have spied for the Soviet Union, which resulted in his top secret security clearance being revoked? A: J. Robert Oppenheimer
Q: Where did the car manufacturer Audi originate? A: Germany
Q: What name is given to the frst person to enter a house in the New Year? A: First footer
Q: "What animal is involved in ""dressage""?" A: Horse
Q: Series I to V of which video game takes place on the planet of Enroth and its southern continent, Antagarich, and other worlds, Axeoth and Ashan? A: Heroes of Might and Magic
Q: Before taking office, both US president George W Bush and his vice president Dick Chaney had both been convicted of what? A: Drink driving
Q: What gives the flamingo the colour of its plumage? A: Diet
Q: What nickname was given to German Chancellor Otto Van Bismarck? A: The Iron Chancellor
Q: "The single ""Sara"" was from Fleetwood Mac's 12th studio album (that followed the album ""Rumours""), released in 1979. What was the album?" A: Tusk
Q: "In the term ""taxi-cab"", the word cab"" is an abbreviated form of what word?" A: Cabriolet
Q: The flags of Australia and New Zealand feature representations of what? A: Southern Cross
Q: Approximately how far is the moon from Earth? A: 240,000 miles
Q: Which chapel in the Apostolic Palace (the official residence of the Pope in Vatican City), famous for its architecture and decoration, has been frescoed by the Renaissance artists including Michelangelo, Raphael, Bernini, and Sandro Botticelli? A: Sistine Chapel
Q: What was the name of the series of religiously sanctioned military campaigns between 1095 and 1291 waged by much of Latin Christian Europe to restore Christian control of the Holy Land? A: The Crusades
Q: "Who played the title role in the 2004 film ""The Passion of Christ""?" A: Jim Caviezel
Q: According to a Time - Pew Research Centre poll published on 29 November 2010, the percentage of married people in the USA has changed from 75% (of those over 18) in 1960 to what in 2008? A: 50%
Q: In 1998 the Iroquois nation sent its first team to the world championships of which sport? A: Lacrosse
Q: British engineers Isambard Kingdom Brunel and Robert Stephenson built their most impressive structures and locomotives in which century? A: 19th
Q: What is Valerie Adams's profession? A: Athlete
Q: "Who wore size 9 shoes in a song, the chorus of which begins ""Oh My Darling, Oh My Darling, Oh My Darling ...""?" A: Clementine
Q: Annie Leibovitz is famous as what? A: Photographer
Q: How many US states share a land border with Canada? A: 10
Q: What ambulance service is a common name used by a number of affiliated organisations in different countries dedicated to the teaching and practice of medical first aid and the provision of ambulance services, all of which derive their origins from an association founded in 1877 in England? A: St John
Q: What river runs through Cincinnati, Ohio, USA? A: Ohio River
Q: "Which 1982 album by Dire Staits included the tracks ""Telegraph Road"", ""Private Investigations"" , ""Industrial Disease"" and ""It Never Rains""?" A: Love over Gold
Q: What is k. d. lang's profession? A: Singer
Q: The cochlea is part of which part of the body? A: Ear
Q: Keith Urban, who has had 2 platinum albums and 11 #1 singles in the USA, and is a winner of 3 Grammy Awards, was born where? A: Whangarei, New Zealand
Q: What is a traditional form of whitework embroidery which involves the tufting or knotting of the yarn, on top of a muslin fabric to create patterns? A: Candlewick
Q: Who has won the Women's Singles title at Australia's premier tennis tournament, with 10 wins? A: Margaret Court
Q: In 1979, a World Health Organization commission of scientists certified the global eradication of which human infectious disease, the first (and only) one to be completely eradicated from nature? A: Smallpox
Q: The dance Meringue originated where? A: Caribbean
Q: "Who appeared in the films ""The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford"" (2007), ""Burn After Reading"" (2008), ""The Curious Case of Benjamin Button"" (2008) and ""Inglourious Basterds"" (2009)?" A: Brad Pitt
Q: On which continent is Suriname? A: South America
Q: The Battles of Alamein, Britain and the Bulge took place in which war? A: World War II
Q: What vehicle was sold to John and Maureen Hendricks at the Barrett-Jackson Auto Auction in Scottsdale, Arizona, in 2005, for a record $3,240,000? A: 1954 Oldsmobile F-88 Convertible Concept Car
Q: When did London first host an Olympic Games? A: 1908
Q: "Who wrote and performed the song ""Rehab"" that won the 2007 Ivor Novello Award for Best Contemporary Song, and Grammy Awards in 2008 for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance?" A: Amy Winehouse
Q: Which fictional character uses a sonic screwdriver? A: Dr Who
Q: The Colossus, one of the seven wonders of the world, was built where? A: Rhodes
Q: Built in 1607, Pont Neuf spans what river? A: Seine
Q: What type of animal is a silverback? A: Gorilla
Q: The Supermarine Spitfires that were used by Britain in World War II were powered by engines from which manufacturer? A: Rolls Royce
Q: "In 2001, Karen England and Rebecca Knight, found busking in Covent Garden to support singing lessons, were invited to perform at the FA Cup Final & the UEFA Champions League final in Milan. Their album ""Beyond Imagination"" was #1 in the UK Classical Charts for 11 weeks and #4 in the USA. What are they better known as?" A: The Opera Babes
Q: In which country, in 1984, did the Prime Minister bar nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed ships from using its ports or entering waters? A: New Zealand
Q: What beverage was introduced to England from China by the Dutch in 1645? A: Tea
Q: Which Mediterranean island is divided politically by the Attila Line? A: Cyprus
Q: "In the middle ages, what infection was called ""the king's evil"", and, it was rumoured, could be cured by the touch of a king?" A: Scrofula
Q: "In the song ""My Generation"" by the Who, what words follow the line ""People try to put us down""?" A: Just because we get around
Q: Nicole Kidman married which country singer in 2006? A: Keith Urban
Q: "According to the Bible, who denied knowing Jesus 3 times ""before the cock crowed twice""?" A: Peter
Q: What was the first, and only complete, novel, published in 1788, written by 18th-century British writer, philosopher, and advocate of women's rights Mary Wollstonecraft? A: Mary: A Fiction
Q: What name is given to a style of journalism that is written subjectively, often including the reporter as part of the story via a first-person narrative? A: Gonzo
Q: What 3-wheeled microcar manufactured in 1962 and 1965 on the Isle of Man retailed for 199, and holds the record for the smallest-ever automobile to go into production? A: Peel P50
Q: "Which English-born conductor worked with orchestras in Cincinatti, Philadelphia, San Francisco, Hollywood, New York and Houston, and collaborated with Walt Disney to produce the film ""Fantasia""?" A: Leopold Stokowski
Q: What was the cause of strikes and rioting across France in October 2010? A: Pension reform
Q: The Priestley medal is awarded for excellence in what field? A: Chemistry
Q: "What was the preoccupation of John Nash Jr, the subject of the 2001 film ""A Beautiful Mind"" starring Russell Crowe?" A: Economics
Q: Copacabana Beach is close to which city? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: Which US president was a swimming instructor and lifeguard in Illinois? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What name was given to the number 10 to the power of 100 (i.e. 1 followed by one hundred zeros) by nine-year-old Milton Sirotta, nephew of American mathematician Edward Kasner? A: Googol
Q: "What are the last words of the film ""Gone With The Wind""?" A: Tomorrow is another day
Q: In November 2010, Swiss voters decided to expel what category of people from the country? A: Foreigners convicted of serious crimes
Q: Royal mistress Nell Gwynn famously sold what items? A: Oranges
Q: What artistic movement was brought to international attention at the World's Fair in Paris in 1925? A: Art deco
Q: The city of Canton in China is now known as what? A: Guangzhou
Q: Between 1979 and 1990, the Sandinistas and the Contras were participants in a Civil War in which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: "The ""Westminster"", that is held annually at Madison Square Garden in New York, is what sort of event?" A: Dog show
Q: What musical features the characters Frank N Furter and Riff Raff? A: The Rocky Horror Show
Q: Military signals are usually played on which instrument? A: Bugle
Q: Where was the original Globe Theatre located? A: London
Q: What did Captain James Cook take on his sea voyages, as experience had taught him that it was an effective preventative of scurvy (containing vitamin C and lactobacilli)? A: Sauerkraut
Q: Pilgrims visit the city of Santiago de Compostela because it is supposedly the site of the bones of which saint? A: St James
Q: Which jazz bandleader disappeared in December 1944 while flying over the English Channel? A: Glenn Miller
Q: "What fictional football club was the centre for the UK TV series ""Footballers' Wives""?" A: Earl's Park
Q: What type of apple is on the Apple Records logo? A: Granny Smith
Q: In music, what is the name given to 1/16th of the whole note? A: Semiquaver
Q: Louis B Meyer is associated with what activity? A: Film making
Q: What is the name for the highly viscous layer of the earth that is about 2,890 km (1,800 miles) thick and makes up about 84 percent of Earth's volume? A: Mantle
Q: "The ""loop of Henle"" is found where in the human body?" A: Kidney
Q: The Roman army left Britain in what century? A: 5th
Q: "What is the alternative title of Gilbert and Sullivan's ""The Mikado""?" A: The Town of Titipu
Q: "The words ""palaver"" and ""marmalade"" came into English from what language?" A: Portuguese
Q: What is the name of the belt of a judo uniform? A: Obi
Q: """Gastric"" applies to which part of the body?" A: Stomach
Q: How many members are there in the Italian upper house, the Senate? A: 315
Q: Who is the co-director and co-writer of British television shows with Ricky Gervais? A: Stephen Merchant
Q: Of the 29 letters in the Turkish alphabet, how many are vowels? A: 8
Q: What is the next in this sequence: Palatine Hill, Capitoline Hill, Quirinal Hill, Viminal Hill, Esquiline Hill, Caelian Hill, ... ? A: Aventine Hill
Q: A Hellenist is an expert on subjects pertaining to what? A: Greece
Q: What role, first established in May 1947 with the appointment of Walter Winterbottom, was filled in 2008 by Fabio Capello, who replaced Steve McClaren? A: England national football team manager
Q: After Mao Zedong, chairman of the Communist Party of China, launched the Cultural Revolution on 16 May 1966, he attempted to mobilise China's youth, who formed what groups around the country? A: Red Guard
Q: What is the name of the cathedral in Krakow where Poland's kings and heroes are buried? A: Wawel
Q: "When they had hits with ""Bills, Bills, Bills"" and ""Say My Name"", Beyonc Knowles, Kelly Rowland, LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett were known as what?" A: Destiny's Child
Q: If you take any number, double it, add 10, divide by 2, and subtract your original number, what will the answer be? A: 5
Q: Where is the Abistle Zone? A: The ocean floor
Q: The Unasur Constitutive Treaty, signed on 23 May 2008 in Braslia, Brazil, founded what international body? A: Union of South American Nations
Q: "John Cleese played what character in the film ""The World is not Enough""?" A: Q's assistant
Q: Whose address is 9 Downing Street, London, next to that of the Prime Minister of the UK? A: The Chief Whip
Q: The ball used in rugby, American football and Australian Rules football resembles what shape? A: Egg
Q: "A referendum that took place in Quebec on 30 October 1995, which was defeated 49.42% ""Yes"" to 50.58% ""No"", concerned what?" A: Quebec should secede from Canada
Q: Easter Island belongs to which country? A: Chile
Q: What is the shape of a standard dart board? A: Round
Q: Which vehicle maker has marketed models called Transit, KA, Focus, Fiesta, Laser and Falcon? A: Ford
Q: Leslie Neilsen starred in which series of 3 ? 19 ?? Films? A: The Naked Gun
Q: Jason Lee Scott, Zack Taylor, Billy Cranston, Trini Kwan and Kimberly Hart were the orignal members of which group? A: Mighty Morphin Power Rangers
Q: At what time of day does the church service called vespers take place? A: Evening
Q: "Who wrote the book ""Das Kapital""?" A: Karl Marx
Q: In which country are members of parliament known, not as MPs, but TDs? A: Ireland
Q: Olympic gold medallists Paavo Nurmi, Ville Ritola, Clas Thunberg and Lasse Virn represented which country? A: Finland
Q: According to legend, what was the Pied Piper asked to drive out of Hamelin? A: Rats
Q: Where is the world's most populous metropolitan area? A: Tokyo
Q: What is the Prix Goncourt awarded for? A: Literature
Q: Which planet has 5 rings that are named for the astronomers Johann Gottfried Galle, Urbain Le Verrier, William Lassell, Franois Arago and John Couch Adams? A: Neptune
Q: For which activity was Dame Elizabeth Frink honoured? A: Sculpture
Q: What was the name given to a controversy about vivisection in England from 1903 to 1910 that involved the infiltration of University of London medical lectures by Swedish women activists, street battles between medical students and suffragettes, trade unionists and the police, police protection for the statue of a dog in Battersea Park, its removal by the authorities in 1910 (and its replacement in 1985), a libel trial and the establishment of a Royal Commission? A: The Brown Dog affair
Q: What word is used to describe the lowest temperature at which vapour above a liquid can be ignited? A: Flashpoint
Q: "Who is the lead character in the TV series ""House""?" A: Gregory House
Q: Lalophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Speaking
Q: Which medal, originally called the Badge of Military Merit, was established by George Washington in 1782, awarded to only 3 Revolutionary War soldiers, and not proposed again officially until after World War I? A: Purple Heart
Q: Brian Lara is associated with which sport? A: Cricket
Q: In Anglo Saxon Britain, what word described a magistrate and the regional representative of the king? A: Reeve
Q: What is the technical term for a nose bleed? A: Epistaxis
Q: What football team is based in Green Bay, Wisconsin? A: Packers
Q: What caused the closure of the Panama Canal in December 2010, for the first time in 21 years? A: Flooding
Q: "The play ""The Mousetrap"" by Agatha Christie ran at the New Ambassadors Theatre in London's West End from 25 November 1952 until Saturday 23 March 1974, when it immediately transferred to which theatre next door, reopening on Monday 25 March?" A: St Martin's Theatre
Q: Avalon was the name of the island where, according to legend, which King was buried? A: King Arthur
Q: J.P.R. Williams played rugby union for which country between 1969 and 1981? A: Wales
Q: "In the musical ""Oliver!"", who is the conniving career criminal who takes in homeless boys and teaches them to pick pockets for him?" A: Fagin
Q: How many members are there in the US lower house, the House of Representatives? A: 435
Q: Who was president of the USA at the end of the Vietnam War when the last U.S. diplomatic, military, and civilian personnel were evacuated from Saigon by helicopter on 29 April 1975? A: Gerald Ford
Q: What nationality was astronomer Tycho Brahe? A: Danish
Q: Leighton Reece was the first world professional champion in what sport, in 1978? A: Darts
Q: What is the highest uninterrupted waterfall in the world? A: Angel Falls
Q: What name is given to the ancient preserved dead bodies found in Egypt? A: Mummies
Q: According to Shakespeare who kills Macbeth? A: Macduff
Q: What is a young alpaca called? A: Cria
Q: Bodrum, Fethiye, Marmaris, Kuadas, Cesme, Didim and Alanya are tourist resorts in which country? A: Turkey
Q: The Elgin Marbles, currently in the British Museum, came from which building? A: Parthenon
Q: By what name is the Australian Rugby Union team known? A: The Wallabies
Q: "In 2010, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization announced that it expected to make a formal declaration in 2011 of the global eradication of ""Rinderpest"". What does Rinderpest attack, mostly?" A: Cattle
Q: "In Botticelli's painting ""The Birth of Venus"", what is she standing on?" A: A shell
Q: What is Whitcombe Judson credited with inventing in 1893? A: Zip fastener
Q: What is the lowest score that cannot be scored with a single dart? A: 23
Q: "Who made the British singles charts for the first time in 1964, backed by her band ""The Luvvers""?" A: Lulu
Q: What was the nickname for the Boeing B-17 long-range bomber used in World War II? A: Flying Fortress
Q: The Cocos Islands are in which body of water? A: Indian Ocean
Q: A male horse four years and under is called what? A: Colt
Q: Where are the palatine bones? A: Mouth
Q: On October 24, 1901, 63-year-old Michigan school teacher Annie Edson Taylor was the first person to go where in a barrel ? A: Over Niagara Falls
Q: Christian Bale was born in what country? A: Wales
Q: Canaletto is famous for his 18th century paintings of which city? A: Venice
Q: Who created and played the character of Waldorf T Flywheel? A: Groucho Marx
Q: Bruce Dickinson, the vocalist of the heavy metal band Iron Maiden from 1981 to 1993, represented England at what sport? A: Fencing
Q: Central Park is in which New York borough? A: Manhattan
Q: "From which language do we get the word ""fiasco""?" A: Italian
Q: "Who worked at Betchley Park in World War II as one of the Enigma codebreakers and became known as ""the father of modern computer science""?" A: Alan Turing
Q: The 38th episode of what series is infamous for using visual effects, that when transmitted in December 1997, caused seizures in 685 viewers so severe that they were taken to hospital? A: Pokmon
Q: The CN Tower is in which Canadian city? A: Toronto
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 6points? A: Pink
Q: Donna Summer was popular in what genre of music? A: Disco
Q: What name is given to the programme of baseball and softball competitions organised for people aged 5 to 18 in the USA? A: Little League
Q: What condition, often painful especially when standing or walking, is most common in the legs, because of higher blood pressure there when standing? A: Varicose veins
Q: Cambridge Circus is in which city? A: London
Q: After Prime Minister Bishop had been executed by his Deputy, Bernard Coard, US President Reagan, publicly concerned for the security of 800 US students at St. George's School of Medicine, ordered the invasion of which British Commonwealth country? A: Grenada
Q: "What was the nickname of the character played by Jeff Bridges in the 1998 film ""The Big Lebowski""?" A: The Dude
Q: What is another name for the shoulderblade? A: Scapula
Q: What was the name given to the line of German defences that ran across Italy from east to west, through the Apennine Mountains via the mountains behind the town of Cassino, to the mouth of the Sangro River in the east? A: Gustav Line
Q: Where is the oldest whiskey distillery still operating, which was established in 1608? A: Northern Ireland
Q: In 2010, when Tiger Woods announced that would change to a Scotty Cameron, he was referring to a type of what? A: Putter
Q: Whose relationships have been the subject of speculation in the celebrity press, and has been romantically linked with Jennifer Love Hewitt, Heidi Klum, Jessica Simpson, Minka Kelly and Jennifer Aniston? A: John Mayer
Q: "The book ""A Kestrel for a Knave"" by Barry Hines was the basis for which 1969 film?" A: Kes
Q: Traditionally, what are the black keys of a piano made of? A: Ebony
Q: "What English custom practised from the late 17th until the early 20th century, was the backdrop for Thomas Hardy's novel ""The Mayor of Casterbridge""?" A: Wife selling
Q: Soccer player Dennis Bergkamp was well known for his fear of what? A: Flying
Q: "Who made two series of engravings based on two series of his paintings, called ""A Rake's Progress"" and ""A Harlot's Progress""?" A: William Hogarth
Q: All or part of Eritrea, Somaliland, Tientsin, Libya, the Dodecanese Islands, Ethiopia and Albania were ruled by what country in 1942? A: Italy
Q: What was unusual about how George I, a 17 year old Danish prince, became King of the Hellenes, ruling from 1863 to 1913? A: He was elected King by the Greek National Assembly
Q: "What is the name of the father in cartoon series ""The Family Guy""?" A: Peter Griffin
Q: What word is commonly used to describe residents of the South American pampas, chacos, or Patagonian grasslands? A: Gaucho
Q: In 2003, who did the American Film Institute vote the greatest movie villain of all time? A: Hannibal Lecter
Q: On 1 May 2010, where was a car bomb in a Nissan Pathfinder, which failed to ignite properly, disarmed with no casualties? A: Times Square, New York City
Q: Venus and which other planet in our solar system has no moon? A: Mercury
Q: Who won the World Surfing Championship in December 2009? A: Mick Fanning
Q: Who was the first Westerner to discover the Victoria Falls? A: David Livingstone
Q: A mellotron is what kind of musical instrument? A: Keyboard
Q: The air we breathe is made up of 78.09% of what gas? A: Nitrogen
Q: Where are the Balearic Islands? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: In 1920 the League of Nations set up its headquarters in which city? A: Geneva
Q: The .. what ... of dawn is in the very early morning? A: Crack
Q: During his career from 1959 to 1993, who battled more than 2,000 fires in oil and natural gas wells, notably in 1962 when he tackled a fire at a gas field in the Sahara nicknamed the Devil's Cigarette Lighter, a 450-foot (137 m) flame? A: Red Adair
Q: "Who created the comic strip ""Garfield""?" A: Jim Davis
Q: What is the approximate speed of light in miles per second? A: 186,000
Q: The term lusophone relates to which language? A: Portuguese
Q: "Which video game puts the player in the role of ""the Stranger"", uses special books written by an artisan and explorer named Atrus to travel to several worlds known as ""Ages""?" A: Myst
Q: "Who became the youngest winner of the TV show ""American Idol"" when she won season 6?" A: Jordin Sparks
Q: "In the 2000 film, who played ""Billy Elliot""s dancing teacher?" A: Julie Walters
Q: What group of men was constituted to guard the Roman emperor? A: Praetorian Guard
Q: "The poem ""The New Colossus"" that begins ""Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses "" is inscribed where?" A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: The country of Belgium is what continent? A: Europe
Q: What waxes and wanes every 28 days? A: Moon
Q: """When shall we three meet again"" is the first line of which play?" A: Macbeth
Q: """Joseph"" had what garment that was worth putting in the title of a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, ?" A: Coat
Q: The Olympic symbol consists of five what? A: Rings
Q: What is the name of Sydney Harbour, NSW, Australia? A: Port Jackson
Q: Seborrhea is a medical problem that affects which part of the body? A: Skin
Q: The first flag for the USA had how many stars on it? A: 13
Q: Who was an American serial killer active in various states between 1973 and 1978 who confessed to over 30 murders (estimates range from 26 to over 100)? A: """Ted"" Bundy"
Q: What was the name of Simon Le Bon's maxi yacht, that lost her keel and capsized during the Fastnet race off Falmouth, on the southern coast of Cornwall, in 1985? A: Drum
Q: What peace treaty, signed on 28 June 1919, officially ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers after World War I? A: The Treaty of Versailles
Q: What was the occupation of Otto Klemperer? A: Conductor
Q: What is the name for a group of musicians formed to imitate a famous band? A: Tribute band
Q: What was the bowling technique developed by English cricketer Harold Larwood? A: Bodyline
Q: What is the longest river in England? A: Severn
Q: "What band released the single ""The Importance of Being Idle"" in 2005?" A: Oasis
Q: Between 1821 and 1832 the Greeks fought to become free of which Empire? A: Ottoman
Q: What is Julia Gillard's profession? A: Politician
Q: Which famous landmark in Los Angeles, California, was created as an advertisement in 1923? A: The Hollywood Sign
Q: Elaine Paige and Barbara Dickson had a hit with which song in 1985? A: I Know Him So Well
Q: What name is given to the container to carry uneaten food home from a restaurant? A: Doggy bag
Q: What title was held by Edward VIII after his abdication? A: Duke of Windsor
Q: What was the title of Gordon Ramsay's 2006 autobiography? A: Humble Pie
Q: What country was never defeated during its participation in the FIFA World Cup tournament in South Africa in 2010? A: New Zealand
Q: What is the main commercial flatfish in Europe? A: Plaice
Q: In 1971, who hijacked an aeroplane, collected a ransom, parachuted out over the Rocky Mountains and was never seen again? A: D B Cooper
Q: "What is the name for an enthusiast for the TV series ""Star Trek""?" A: Trekkie
Q: What rating indicates the anti-engine knocking properties of a fuel? A: Octane
Q: The Mazda Cosmo, which began to be marketed in 1990, was the first car to be equipped with what as an option? A: GPS
Q: How many degrees do the internal angles of an octagon add up to? A: 1080
Q: Who succeeded Lyndon Johnson as president of the USA on 20 January 1969? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Five of Canada's fourteen UNESCO World heritage sites (Canadian Rocky Mountain Parks, Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park, Wood Buffalo National Park, Dinosaur Provincial Park and Head-Smashed-In Buffalo Jump) are in which Canadian province? A: Alberta
Q: Zola Budd became famous as what? A: Athlete
Q: What are people employed in a theatre to interface with the audience called? A: Front of House staff
Q: "What title, meaning ""general"", was held by Japan's military commanders from 1192 to 1867?" A: Shogun
Q: What apparatus is used to artificially hatch eggs? A: Incubator
Q: """Service"" is the way the ball is put into play in which game?" A: Tennis
Q: "The 2008 British film ""Slumdog Millionaire"" directed by Danny Boyle is an adaptation of what 2005 novel?" A: """Q & A"" by Vikas Swarup"
Q: On 3 May 2010 United and which other airline announced a stock-swap to combine them into the world's largest airline? A: Continental
Q: In October 2009, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) announced that the 2016 Summer Olympics will be held from 5 to 21 August 2016 in what city? A: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Q: "In Britain in World War II, where did ""land girls"" work?" A: Farms
Q: What was the title of Good Charlotte's 2010 album? A: Cardiology
Q: In 1984, Muhammad Ali was diagnosed with what disorder? A: Parkinson's disease
Q: Who famously flew a kite in a thunderstorm in 1752 to demonstrate the effects of lightning? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Which branch of botany is concerned with grasses? A: Agrostology
Q: What name did Andy Warhol give to his original New York City studio from 1962 to 1968 in premises on the 5th floor of 231 East 47th Street, Madison Avenue? A: The Factory
Q: According to Britain's Sea Fish Industry Authority, what is the name for a young pilchard? A: Sardine
Q: Wynton Marsalis is known for playing what type of music? A: Jazz
Q: Quasimodo is what book character? A: The hunchback of Notre Dame
Q: "Who had the title role in the 2003 film 'Sylvia""?" A: Gwyneth Paltrow
Q: Peter Schreyer is a famous designer of what? A: Automobiles
Q: What name is used for the index of activity on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange? A: Hang Seng
Q: In which country is the city of Armagh? A: Northern Ireland
Q: """Pruritus"" is a medical word for what?" A: Itching
Q: In Scandinavian mythology, who was the son of Odin that had a magic hammer called Miohir? A: Thor
Q: What colour does the planet Neptune appear to be from space? A: Blue
Q: "Which sculptor is famous for his work ""The Thinker""?" A: Rodin
Q: What name was given to a series of confrontations in the 1950s and 1970s between the UK and Iceland? A: Cod Wars
Q: What is another name for a beekeeper? A: Apiarist
Q: What nationality is racing driver Alain Prost? A: French
Q: Billy Bob Thornton won the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay for which film? A: Sling Blade
Q: Where in the USA are the La Brea tar pits? A: Los Angeles
Q: What nest at Sandy Cape, the most northern point on Fraser Island off the coast of Queensland, Australia, which is protected as part of the Great Sandy National Park? A: Turtles
Q: Which Channel Island is divided by a causeway called the Coupee, and has one port, Croux? A: Sark
Q: John F Kennedy's father Joe was US ambassador to which country? A: Britain
Q: "What is a ""Harvey Wallbanger""?" A: Cocktail
Q: The first Chinese round of what international series was first held in 2004, in Shanghai? A: Formula One Grand Prix
Q: The island of Kos is in which sea? A: Mediterranean
Q: What part of the caper is salted and pickled and used as a seasoning or garnish? A: Bud
Q: "In the TV series ""Mork and Mindy"", who was the mostly-unseen and long-suffering superior (voiced by Ralph James) who had sent Mork to Earth, and that Mork had to report to frequently?" A: Orson
Q: "Who captained the ""Endeavour"" and the ""Resolution"" on 3 voyages to the Pacific in 176871, 177275 and 177679?" A: James Cook
Q: "The warriors known as ""berserkers"" were legendary figures in which mythology?" A: Norse
Q: What is the surname of twin brothers Mike and Bob, who became the world's number 1 ranked men's tennis doubles team in 2007? A: Bryan
Q: Double vision, the perception of two images from a single object, is properly called what? A: Diplopia
Q: Who played a professional boxer in a 2004 film? A: Hilary Swank
Q: "Who designed Jacqueline Kennedy's wedding dress for her marriage to Aristotle Onassis (1968), Elizabeth Taylor's gown for the premiere of ""Spartacus"" in Rome (1961) and Julia Robert's & Cate Blanchett's ""Oscars"" gowns (2001 & 2005 respectively)?" A: Valentino Garavani
Q: Idi Amin, dictator in Uganda from 1951 to 1960, was a champion in his country in what sport? A: Boxing
Q: What is the last book of the New Testament? A: Revelation
Q: "What is the ""Ishihara test"" for?" A: Colour blindness
Q: Who broke the NFL record for the most points in a single season, with 176 points, in 1960? A: Paul Hornung
Q: Where are Akrotiri and Dhekelia, allocated by treaty to the UK as sovereign military bases? A: Cyprus
Q: "Who, when discussing the power of a lever, is reputed to have said ""give me but one firm place on which to stand and I will move the earth""?" A: Archimedes
Q: """Goal attack"" and ""wing defence"" are positions in which sport?" A: Netball
Q: Transits of Venus occur in a pattern, with pairs of transits 8 years apart separated by much longer gaps, that repeats every how many years? A: 243
Q: What is the Sunday before Trinity Sunday? A: Whit Sunday
Q: "The traditional song ""The Ballad of Chevy Chase"" is believed to describe which battle?" A: Otterburn
Q: "Court Philippe Chatrier, which has stands named after Jacques ""Toto"" Brugnon, Jean Borotra, Henri Cochet, and Ren Lacoste, is the main court of an international tennis venue in which city?" A: Paris
Q: Who was Emperor of Rome during the great fire of 64AD? A: Nero
Q: What are traditionally kept in a humidor? A: Cigars
Q: "How many days did Britain ""lose"" in September 1752 on changing from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar?" A: 11
Q: "At the peak of its power, it was often said that ""the sun never sets on"" which empire?" A: British
Q: "In medicine, what does ""GP"" mean?" A: General practitioner
Q: """Kraal"" is an Afrikaans and South African English word for what?" A: An enclosure for livestock
Q: What card game uses a scoreboard with holes and pegs? A: Cribbage
Q: "The general assembly of which US state voted to express ""profound regret"" for its involvement with slavery?" A: Virginia
Q: How many members are there in the Italian lower house, the Chamber of Deputies? A: 630
Q: Where are the islands called Greene, Herschel, Jack, Kitchener, Russell, St. Joseph, Thibault and Tyson? A: Lake Huron
Q: In mathematics, what is the name for the following sequence of numbers: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233, 377, 610, 987, 1597, 2584, 4181, 6765 ... A: Fibonacci numbers
Q: "What is the meaning of the Russian word ""bolshevik""?" A: Majority
Q: What letters of the modern basic Latin alphabet do not occur in the Turkish alphabet? A: Q, W and X
Q: What shape is a bar of Toblerone chocolate? A: Triangular prism
Q: What are Halley's, Hale-Bopp, Kohoutek, West, Hyakutake and McNaught? A: Comets
Q: Which British sprinter returned to competition in 2006 after a 2 year absence due to doping offences? A: Dwain Chambers
Q: Sir Mortimer Wheeler was famous in which field? A: Archaeology
Q: What was the name most often used for the tower at the north end of the Palace of Westminster in London? A: St Stephen's Tower
Q: What is the scientific study of insects? A: Entomology
Q: Which US state would you go to to see Niagara Falls? A: New York
Q: Benjamin Disraeli's government was elected in the UK how many times? A: 1
Q: "How many apostrophes should be in the following sentence: ""Andrews dogs licked their lips whenever Pavlovs bells rang to signal meal times""?" A: 2
Q: "Who released an album called ""Don't Shoot Me, I'm Only the Piano Player"" in 1973?" A: Elton John
Q: The Mason-Dixon line, originally surveyed to define the border between Pennsylvania and Maryland, is along which longitude? A: 40th parallel
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 Muses was the muse of Choral poetry? A: Polymnia
Q: What name is given to the giving up of food, often for religious reasons? A: Fast
Q: What is claimed to be the fastest bird in level flight, (though its record is in dispute from supporters of the White-throated Needletail)? A: Red-breasted Merganser
Q: What weapon is traditionally held in a scabbard? A: Sword
Q: PADI Worldwide, which has its corporate headquarters in California, USA, is concerned with what? A: Diving
Q: "Paul Young and Susan Boyle have covered ""Don't Dream It's Over"", which was written for (and was a US hit record for) which band?" A: Crowded House
Q: Who entered Studio 54 in New York City in 1977 for her 32nd birthday party on a white horse, resulting in publicity that established it as the preferred nightclub for celebrities? A: Bianca Jagger
Q: "What is ""Midway"", the site of the Battle of Midway?" A: Pacific Island
Q: Goalkeeper Jens Ramme's debut for Dynamo Dresden was in the quarter-final of the 198586 European Cup Winners' Cup, when they were 31 up at half-time and he was brought on as a replacement. He let in six goals in 29 minutes: Dynamo lost. They were playing against which team? A: Bayer Uerdingen of West Germany
Q: The first European landfall was made on the continent of Australia by Willem Janszoon in what year? A: 1606
Q: What was the first product advertised on British TV? A: Toothpaste
Q: What international news TV network is based in Doha, Qatar? A: Al Jazeera
Q: What term was used to describe the pattern where, from 1840 to 1960, each American President who had won election in a year ending in zero died in office? A: The Curse of Tippecanoe
Q: In nursery rhymes, Tommy Tucker and Jack Horner are both referred to as what? A: Little
Q: What is the name of the line of latitude that is approximately 23 degrees 30 minutes North? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: Who appeared on the first postage stamp? A: Victoria
Q: "In what field is ""The Meisner Technique"" used?" A: Acting
Q: What is the name of Bill and Hilary Clinton's daughter? A: Chelsea
Q: "The 2006 film ""A Cock and Bull Story"" was about an attempt to film what book?" A: Tristram Shandy
Q: What is the specialty of a podiatrist? A: Feet
Q: "What is the meaning in English of the French word ""clair""?" A: Lightning
Q: "What was the original title of ""The Goon Show""?" A: Crazy People
Q: "A ""Henry"" is a basic SI unit of what?" A: Inductance
Q: Charente, France, is famous for its production of what? A: Slippers
Q: "There were two events called ""The Siege of Sevastopol"". One of them took place in which war?" A: Crimean War
Q: The Celtics are a professional basketball team based where? A: Boston
Q: In October 2009 a diplomatic incident arose between Albania, India and Macedonia about whether whose remains should be disinterred and where they should be reburied? A: Mother Teresa
Q: "Which Roman emperor was nicknamed ""Little Greek""?" A: Hadrian
Q: What are found in only two places in Africa: on Mt Kilimanjaro and Mt Kenya? A: Glaciers
Q: What country would you be in if you were where the Yukon River empties into the Bering Sea? A: USA
Q: The nectarine, which has a smooth, fuzzless skin, is a type of what? A: Peach
Q: Harrison Ford was working as what before his first big break as a film actor? A: Carpenter
Q: What principal Dickens character wears a wedding dress throughout her appearance in the novel? A: Miss Havisham
Q: Which army besieged Paris from 18 September 1870 for 4 months? A: Prussian
Q: The lumbar region of the human body contains how many vertebrae? A: 5
Q: "In the Bible, whose return heralded the killing of ""the fatted calf""?" A: The prodigal son
Q: Buenos Aires is the capital city of which country? A: Argentina
Q: What animal is native to Russia, the USA (especially Alaska), Canada, the Carpathian region (especially Romania), and Finland, where it is the national animal? A: Brown bear
Q: In Greek mythology, who is the son of Chaos and the god of darkness? A: Erebus
Q: Who is the natural father of Fifi Trixibelle (born in 1983), Peaches Honeyblossom Michelle Charlotte Angel Vanessa (1989), Little Pixie (1990) and the adoptive father of Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily (1996)? A: Bob Geldof
Q: """Superbad. Superdad."" was the tagline for which 2010 film?" A: Despicable Me
Q: What is the science involved with the study, design, and manufacture of flight-capable machines, and the techniques of operating aircraft? A: Aeronautics
Q: What is a traditional dance of Hawaii? A: Hula
Q: When does a biannual event occur? A: Twice a year
Q: Gregor Johann Mendel, a 19th Century Augustinian priest and scientist, gained posthumous fame as the figurehead of which new science for his study of pea plants? A: Genetics
Q: "What type of competition is ""Western Pleasure"", a popular type of competition in the USA?" A: Equestrian
Q: "Sheep are aged by their teeth and are referred to by the number of permanent incisors that have erupted. About how old is a ""two-tooth""?" A: 1 to 1.5 years
Q: What is a word for the heart liver and lungs of a slaughtered animal? A: Pluck
Q: Topiary is practised on what objects? A: Plants
Q: Prague is known to its residents as what? A: Praha
Q: What is the name for the negative pressure generator invented by Robert Henderson and used extensively by Phillip Drinker and Louis Agassiz Shaw? A: Iron lung
Q: "Who made the statue ""Alison Lapper Pregnant"" that was erected in Trafalgar Square, London, between September 2005 and October 2007?" A: Marc Quinn
Q: What London landmark has served as the Royal Mint, the Public Records Office, a royal menagerie, a residence and a prison? A: Tower of London
Q: "What word's original meaning was ""to remove every tenth one""?" A: Decimate
Q: Which New York nightclub manager, who appeared on a cover of the New York Post holding a picture of her fianc who was killed in the September 11 attacks, was alleged by The National Enquirer in 2009 to have had an affair with Tiger Woods? A: Rachel Uchitel
Q: On 10 May 1775, during the American Revolutionary War, a small force of Green Mountain Boys led by Ethan Allen and Colonel Benedict Arnold overcame and looted Fort Ticonderoga, a small British garrison, and took away cannons and other armaments to fortify which city that was under siege? A: Boston
Q: What was the occupation of Jules Leotard who popularised one-piece gymwear in the 19th century? A: Trapeze artist
Q: What is measured using the Rankine scale? A: Temperature
Q: How many members are there in the French lower house, the National Assembly? A: 577
Q: The first European scientific observation of a transit of Venus (when Venus passes between the Sun and Earth, and can be seen as a small black disk moving across the face of the Sun) was made by Jeremiah Horrocks and William Crabtree in England in what year? A: 1639
Q: "What does the word ""Kendo"", a modern Japanese martial art, mean?" A: Way of the Sword
Q: "The Royal Lichtenstein Quarter-Ring Sidewalk Circus, a street theatre troupe that toured the USA between 1971 and 1993 as the self-described ""world's smallest circus"" was a ministry of what religious order?" A: Jesuits
Q: What was invented by Alessandro Volta in 1800? A: Battery
Q: What is the capital of the US state of Idaho? A: Boise
Q: A Soviet film adaptation of which Shakespearean play, directed by Grigori Kozintsev, with black-and-white photography, a score by Shostakovich and a script based on a translation by Boris Pasternak, was made by Mosfilm in 1971? A: King Lear
Q: What is an item designed to protect from the sun? A: Parasol
Q: What military unit was established in 1831 so that foreign nationals could serve in a nation's Army? A: The French Foreign Legion
Q: "In May 2010, David Byrne, the former lead singer of 1980s band ""Talking Heads"", began a lawsuit claiming $1 million in damages against Florida governor Charlie Crist over the use of which song in an election commercial?" A: Road to Nowhere
Q: Camelot was the legendary court of whom? A: King Arthur
Q: """House music"" originated in clubs in which city?" A: Chicago
Q: For how long is a US Supreme Court Justice appointed? A: Life
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by a sheep? A: Aries
Q: "What brand of beer is popular in the ""Simpsons""?" A: Duff
Q: Which US state is named for a King of France? A: Louisiana
Q: """Hamlet"" is largely set where?" A: Elsinore
Q: What name is given to a vicious elephant that separates from the herd? A: Rogue
Q: What US city is home to a basketball team called the Cavaliers and a football team called the Browns? A: Cleveland
Q: "What war was described as ""the equivalent of two bald men fighting over a comb""?" A: Falklands War
Q: """The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe"", a 2005 film based on the novel by C. S. Lewis, is set mainly in which land?" A: Narnia
Q: Who captained Bangladesh to their 4 - 0 series win over New Zealand in the one day international cricket series completed in October 2010? A: Shakib Al Hasan
Q: What car manufacturer was the first to design a car using a wind tunnel, the first to sell a car with a monocoque chassis, the first to offer a 5 speed gearbox as an option and the first to sell a car fitted with a V6 engine? A: Lancia
Q: What were reportedly the last words of Ned Kelly when he was hanged on 11 November 1880 at the Melbourne Gaol? A: Such is life
Q: What fraction of a millimeter is a nanometer? A: One millionth
Q: What are traditionally hung up on Christmas night for Santa Claus to fill with presents? A: Stockings
Q: When did women first compete in the Olympics in gymnastics? A: 1928
Q: "Who left the satiric poem ""Don Juan"" unfinished after his death in 1824?" A: Byron
Q: "Who plays Dalton Russell, who tells why he is in a cell, in the 2006 film ""Inside Man""?" A: Clive Owen
Q: Wembley Stadium is in what city? A: London
Q: What was the name of the German troops that were sent to assist General Franco in the Spanish Civil War? A: The Condor Legion
Q: What is the name of the test cricket venue in Birmingham, England? A: Edgebaston
Q: The most southerly point of England is at the tip of what peninsula? A: The Lizard
Q: How many #1 hit singles has Bob Dylan had in the USA? A: 0
Q: In music, what word means increasing the loudness of the tone? A: Crescendo
Q: What is another name for the windpipe? A: Trachea
Q: Alaric I was the King of which group who sacked Rome in 410AD? A: Visigoths
Q: Carageen, used in cosmetics and foods is a type of what? A: Seaweed
Q: Which toy was named after a US president? A: Teddy Bear
Q: What is the most densely populated country that has English as an official language? A: India
Q: The battles of Talavera and Salamanca took place during which war? A: Peninsular War
Q: What was the blue dye used by the ancient Britons as battle paint? A: Woad
Q: "In the original version of the ""Donkey Kong"" computer game, the hero, Mario, attempted to rescue his girlfriend. What was her name?" A: Pauline
Q: What goes through the Channel Tunnel that links Folkestone in the UK with Coquelles, near Calais in northern France? A: Railway lines
Q: The game of Roulette was created by which mathematician, physicist, and Catholic philosopher in the 17th century in his search for a perpetual motion machine? A: Blaise Pascal
Q: "Which co-presenter of a programme for car enthusiasts has also presented ""Braniac: Science Abuse"", ""The Gunpowder Plot: Exploding the Legend"", ""Blast Lab"" and ""Invisible Worlds""?" A: Richard Hammond
Q: Which of Britain's Labour Prime Ministers was in office for the shortest continuous period? A: Ramsay MacDonald
Q: David Gest, a concert promoter, was the fourth husband of whom from March 2002 until their divorce in April 2007? A: Liza Minnelli
Q: What term is used to describe an influential and wealthy person? A: Fat cat
Q: What was the Roman name for Wales? A: Cambria
Q: What type of growth is a potato? A: Tuber
Q: In Norway, in December 2010, it was announced that 2,000 of what animal had been fitted wth reflective collars or tags to reduce the chances of their being hit by cars? A: Reindeer
Q: What is the name for the rocks deposited by a glacier after it has passed by? A: Moraine
Q: Which team did Brett Faure play for in the NFL in 2010? A: Minnesota Vikings
Q: Wainwrights were craftsmen who made what? A: Wagons
Q: Who has been romantically linked to Turkish-American actress Ayda Field since 2004? A: Robbie Williams
Q: The IWC, established in 1946, is the International ... what ... Commission? A: Whaling
Q: Which president of the USA was assassinated in 1865? A: Lincoln
Q: What is the monetary unit of Vietnam? A: Dong
Q: What is the only breed of dog to be named after a character in fiction? A: The Dandie Dinmont Terrier
Q: How long is an Olympic-sized swimming pool? A: 50 metres
Q: In the 25 years from 1962 to 1986, which golfer won a record 18 professional major championships? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: The popular name for a type of inflamed elbow joint is associated with which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Who was the first artistic director of the National Theatre in London? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: A pugilist is a competitor in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Cobol, Basic and Fortran are types of what? A: Computer languages
Q: In 1891, Paul Gaugin left France to live where? A: Tahiti
Q: What word, invented by Pawe Ciompa in 1910 and first used by Ragnar Frisch in the sense that it is used today, is concerned with developing and applying quantitative or statistical methods to the study and elucidation of economic principles, combining economic theory with statistics to analyse and test economic relationships? A: Econometrics
Q: "The longest-running speech radio show in the world (58 years) that was discontinued in March 2004, was Alistair Cooke's ""Letter from ..."" where?" A: America
Q: The Yangtze River is on which continent? A: Asia
Q: What fishing method involves pulling a large fishing net through the water behind one or more boats? A: Trawling
Q: "What Latin phrase means means ""my fault"", literally ""my blow""?" A: Mea culpa
Q: What was Shoemaker-Levy 9, that crashed into Jupiter in 1994? A: Comet
Q: "In England, what is commonly known as ""The Old Bailey""?" A: The Central Criminal Court
Q: How old was Tiger Woods when he won the US Masters in 1997? A: 21
Q: Which poison is also an element on the periodic table? A: Arsenic
Q: Who won the 2008 F A Cup? A: Portsmouth
Q: Who first popularised the story of Dr Faustus in England? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: "What phrase means means ""a death blow intended to end the suffering of a wounded creature"", literally ""blow of mercy""?" A: Coup de grace
Q: The wreck of which warship, one of the largest in the English navy of King Henry VIII in the first half of the 16th century, was rediscovered in 1971 and salvaged in October 1982? A: Mary Rose
Q: "What is the name of the coffee shop that was a regular set for the US TV series ""Friends""?" A: Central Perk
Q: "Where are the ""Spanish Steps""?" A: Rome
Q: """Historia Naturalis"" was a major work by whom?" A: Pliny the Elder
Q: The annual RAF Airshow at Hendon was established in 1920 by the Society of British Aircraft Constructors, and grew into a major international event with exhibitors from all over the world. It is now held in mid-July in even-numbered years. Where has it been held since 1949? A: Farnborough
Q: What is the name of the vinegar made from Trebbiano grapes? A: Balsamic vinegar
Q: Reynald Temarii, president of the Oceania Football Confederation, was banned from soccer administration by FIFA because it was alleged that he had said that his vote for the election of hosts of the 2018 FIFA World Cup and 2022 FIFA World Cup could be influenced through the construction of a sports academy. Where was it to be built? A: Tahiti
Q: What US television series (the format for which is now syndicated world-wide) involves a chief executive spending time as a trainee in his or her own firm? A: Undercover Boss
Q: The St Bernard Pass connects Switzerland to what other country? A: Italy
Q: The French horse race called the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe is run at which race course? A: Longchamp
Q: What name was given to an uprising of rural workers in the south and east of England in 1830 who wanted to stop reductions in their wages and protest against the new threshing machines? A: The Swing Riots
Q: What 2005 film, directed by Ang Lee, was based on a short story by Annie Proulx? A: Brokeback Mountain
Q: According to the Bible, who was freed by Pontius Pilate, thus condemning Jesus Christ to crucifixion? A: Barabbas
Q: "In the alphabet, how many consonants are there between the letters ""I"" and ""U""?" A: 10
Q: Sherpas and Gurkhas are native to which country? A: Nepal
Q: Where is NASA's Johnson Space Centre? A: Houston, Texas
Q: A pair of angles is complementary if the sum of their measures is how many degrees? A: 90
Q: Which German brothers published fairy tales in the 19th century? A: Grimm
Q: "In cricket, what term is used to describe the situation when a batsman is ""out"" on the first ball of the match?" A: Royal Duck
Q: What Christian festival commemorates the coming of the Three Wise Men to Bethlehem? A: Epiphany
Q: Which river flows through six countries before reaching the sea at Rotterdam? A: Rhine
Q: What liner was destroyed in Hong Kong harbour while undergoing renovations in 1972? A: Queen Elizabeth
Q: "What was the name of the lion in ""The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe"", a 2005 film based on the ""Narnia"" books by C S Lewis?" A: Aslan
Q: What computer game was invented by Toru Iwatani, first released in Japan in May 1980? A: Pac-Man
Q: "In British history, what ""House"" ruled after the House of Hanover?" A: Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Q: Who created the fictional CIA man Jack Ryan? A: Tom Clancy
Q: What is the name collectively given to several groups of people in Zimbabwe and southern Mozambique, originally known as the Karanga? A: Shona
Q: In 1988, 290 people were killed when an Iranian airliner was shot down by a ship belonging to what navy? A: USA
Q: Which Pope was elected in 2005? A: Pope Benedict XVI
Q: "In the 2004 film ""Sideways"", the character of Miles is disparaging about what?" A: Merlot
Q: Where are the islands called Big Chicken, Chick, Hen, East Sister, Middle and Mohawk? A: Lake Erie
Q: "What British television programme starring Stephen Fry, based in a small Norfolk town (where the local pub is called the ""Startled Duck""), was cancelled after 3 series?" A: Kingdom
Q: "Which wedding anniversary is ""coral""?" A: 35th
Q: Which King was less than a year old when he became King of England? A: Henry VI
Q: "What is the meaning of the old English word ""coomb""?" A: Valley
Q: "The ""Pangboche Hand"" is used as proof of the existence of what?" A: Yeti
Q: What are usually found in an aquarium? A: Fish
Q: How many US states share a land border with the state of Maine? A: 1
Q: With how many pieces does each player start a game of Backgammon? A: 15
Q: Who took the official photographs on 25 November, relating to the engagement of Prince William and Kate Middleton, which were released in December 2010? A: Mario Testino
Q: What is the name for a two-edged sword traditionally used by Scottish highlanders? A: Claymore
Q: The British and the French fought a battle on the Plains of Abraham in 1759. In which country did it take place? A: Canada
Q: William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury, was executed for his anti-puritan views during what period of British history? A: English Civil War
Q: How many points are scored for a touchdown in American football? A: 6
Q: What colour is associated with jaundice? A: Yellow
Q: "In ""Silence of the Lambs"", what was the nickname of the killer that Hannibal Lecter helped to catch?" A: Buffalo Bill
Q: "A ""mugger"" is a type of what?" A: Crocodile
Q: "Where was the English TV comedy series ""Hi De Hi"" set?" A: Holiday camp
Q: Which country invaded Afghanistan on 24 December, 1979? A: Soviet Union
Q: Michelangelo sculpted his statue of David in which century? A: 16th
Q: "A ""shar pei"" is a type of what?" A: Dog
Q: What fruit is mentioned in the official nickname of the US state of Georgia? A: Peach
Q: "In 47 BC, after the war with Pharnaces II of Pontus in the city of Zela (now known as Zile, in Turkey), who is credited with saying ""Veni, vidi, vici""?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: Chip Ganassi is a prominent figure in what sport? A: Motor racing
Q: Where do aquatic creatures live? A: In water
Q: What is the most abundant metal in the Earth's crust? A: Aluminium
Q: In the 6th century BC, where was the empire of Cyrus the Great? A: Persia
Q: What continent is bordered on the north by the Arctic Ocean, on the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southeast by the Caribbean Sea, and on the west by the North Pacific Ocean? A: North America
Q: What is a group of conditions involving damage to the joints of the body, the most common form of which is a result of trauma to or infection of the joint, or age? A: Arthritis
Q: "In the comic strip ""Peanuts"", whose father is a barber?" A: Charlie Brown
Q: The extensive interconnected network of trade routes across the Asian continent connecting East, South, and Western Asia with the Mediterranean world, as well as North and Northeast Africa and Europe, was known as what? A: The Silk Road
Q: Why was wrestler Ara Abrahamian of Sweden disqualified by the IOC and stripped of his rejected bronze medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics? A: Disrupting the award ceremony
Q: """Don't Cha"" and ""Stickwitu"" were #1 hit singles for which group?" A: Pussycat Dolls
Q: What is the Spanish name for Saint James, son of Zebedee, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus? A: Santiago
Q: What is one of the world's most prestigious scientific journals, first published on 4 November 1869, one of the few that publish original research articles across a wide range of scientific fields? A: Nature
Q: What is the largest city in the province of Alberta, Canada? A: Calgary
Q: What was the title applied by the Ottoman Empire and, later, Turkey, to their viceroy of Egypt? A: Khedive
Q: "What element takes its name from the German word for ""evil spirit""?" A: Cobalt
Q: """Five card brag"" is a simplified verion of what game?" A: Poker
Q: "The hymn ""I vow to thee, my country"" was set by Gustav Host to which of his ""The Planets"" suite?" A: Jupiter
Q: "Whose novels ""Northanger Abbey"" and ""Persuasion"" were published posthumously in 1818, and who died before completing one that was eventually called ""Sanditon""?" A: Jane Austen
Q: What orbits the Sun between Earth and Mercury? A: Venus
Q: David Broome was a succcesful competitor in what sport in the 1960s and 1970s? A: Show jumping
Q: What was Melanie Chisholm's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Sporty
Q: The islands of Funen, Zealand, Bornholm, Lolland, Falster, Mors and Langeland belong to which nation? A: Denmark
Q: In which game are the clues mimed? A: Charades
Q: The common choko is what colour when ripe? A: Green
Q: Which city, originally a monastic settlement founded by Saint Finbarr in the 6th century, built on the River Lee, became a major point of Irish emigration to North America after the Great Irish Famine in the 1840s? A: Cork
Q: "What is the maximum number of characters (including spaces) that can be used in a ""tweet""?" A: 140
Q: Who became chairman of the Watford Football Club for the second time in 1997? A: Elton John
Q: James Chadwick discovered which sub-atomic particles in 1932? A: Neutrons
Q: Jeeves is butler to which fictional character created by P G Wodehouse? A: Bertie Wooster
Q: What part of New York City is named for Catherine of Braganza? A: Queens
Q: London's Shaftesbury Avenue is known for what type of establishment? A: Theatres
Q: What are found, although in small amounts, in certain seeds and stones, such as those of apple, mango, peach, and bitter almonds? A: Cyanides
Q: When did the United Kingdom convert to decimal currency? A: 15 February 1971
Q: What is the more common name for polytetrafluoroethylene? A: Teflon
Q: "After 97 years since being installed on a rock in Copenhagen harbour, the statue of ""The Little Mermaid"" left its place in April 2010 to go where?" A: Shanghai, China
Q: Who was the merchant sea-captain who made the first American circumnavigation of the world in 1790, and is known for trading voyages to the northern Pacific coast of North America between 1790 and 1793, which pioneered the fur trade in that region? A: Robert Gray
Q: The Jefferson Memorial, completed in 1943, is in which city? A: Washington DC
Q: What is an expression used to describe across a number of different sports the apparent loss of certain fine motor skills seemingly without explanation? A: The yips
Q: "In the British series of ""The Office"", the character of Gareth is played by which actor?" A: Mackenzie Crook
Q: """Spondulicks"" is another word for what?" A: Money
Q: What science is concerned with the development of an embryo from the fertilization of the ovum to the foetus stage? A: Embryology
Q: What is the name for about 70 species of insect native to New Zealand that can grow as long as 100 mm (4 in) not including the legs and antennae, and weigh about 20-30 g (1 to 3/4 of an ounce)? A: Weta
Q: In 1997, who was appointed the first female US Secretary of State? A: Madeleine Allbright
Q: "Lotte Lenya, who played Rosa Klebb in ""From Russia With Love"" and the Contessa in ""The Roman Spring of Mrs Stone"", was married to whom?" A: Kurt Weill
Q: Over several weeks after the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union agreed to give up its monopoly of power on February 7, 1990, the constituent republics of the USSR held their first competitive elections. How many republics were there? A: 15
Q: "What is a disorder of the immune system (called ""type I hypersensitivity"") whereby the human body reacts adversely to normally harmless environmental substances?" A: Allergy
Q: What Scottish place name is used for a promontory? A: Mull
Q: What does the German surname Schwarzkopf literally mean? A: Black head
Q: The constitution of which country is the world's oldest still in effect? A: San Marino
Q: What medieval coin, first minted around 1140 by Roger II of Sicily, was adopted by Florence in 1252 and Venice in 1283, and was in use in Austria-Hungary until 1914? A: Ducat
Q: "Which film was notable for the legal battle that ensued when first Madonna then Kim Basinger backed out of the title role, and for winning a ""Worst Director"" award for David Lynch at the Golden Raspberry Awards?" A: Boxing Helena
Q: "What ""moon"" traditionally follows a wedding?" A: Honey
Q: Who, it is said, did similar deals with Dr Faustus, Robert Johnson and Niccol Paganini? A: The devil
Q: What name is given to the concept that an animal hitting keys at random on a typewriter for an infinite amount of time will almost surely type a particular chosen text, such as the complete works of William Shakespeare? A: Infinite monkey theorem
Q: What workers make up the majority of the Teamsters Union in the USA? A: Truck drivers
Q: Canadian folk music singer-songwriter, Kate McGarrigle, who died in 2010, was the mother of whom? A: Rufus and Martha Wainwright
Q: "The RMS ""Lancastria"" was the subject of the worst single loss of life in British maritime history and the bloodiest single engagement for UK forces in World War II; she was sunk by German bombers on 17 June 1940 when taking part in an operation to evacuate 150,000 troops from where?" A: St Nazaire
Q: "In the nursery rhyme ""sing a song of sixpence"", what kind of bird plucked off a nose?" A: Blackbird
Q: Which mountain range stretches from Austria and Slovenia in the east, through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany to France in the west? A: Alps
Q: Churning cream turns it into what? A: Butter
Q: If someone is narcoleptic, what do they tend to do? A: Fall asleep
Q: The state of Tabasco, where the sauce gets its name, is in which country? A: Mexico
Q: What 2007 film is an over-the-top send-up of action movies, featuring a large amount of violence (including killing by carrots), starring Clive Owen, Monica Bellucci & Paul Giamatti? A: Shoot 'Em Up
Q: "How many verbs are in the following sentence: ""Roger told his dog not to jump on the furniture with muddy feet""?" A: 2
Q: """Someone Who'll Watch Over Me"" and ""Factory Girls"" are plays by whom?" A: Frank McGuiness
Q: During the reign of which English king was there a succession crisis between his supporters and those of his cousin, the Empress Matilda? A: Stephen
Q: "A ""triple peel"" is a manoeuvre that is common in what sport?" A: Croquet
Q: The mazurka originated in which country? A: Poland
Q: What is written under the Indian national emblem that was adopted as the National Emblem of India on 26 January 1950 when India became a republic, of 4 lions (one hidden from view) that symbolise power, courage, pride and confidence? A: The truth alone triumphs
Q: A guava is a type of what? A: Fruit
Q: Kickflips, ollies, Nollies and nosediving are moves in what sport? A: Skateboarding
Q: What is another name for a Lexicon? A: Dictionary
Q: In Norse mythology, which plant killed the god Baldur? A: Mistletoe
Q: Palaeontology is the study of what? A: Fossils
Q: What nationality was tennis champion Bjorn Borg? A: Swedish
Q: Which of Queen Elizabeth II's children was the last to be married? A: Edward
Q: What is the main constituent of the atmosphere of Mars? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: "What are the last words of the film ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: There's no place like home
Q: Where is the calcaneus bone? A: Heel
Q: Which Scotsman, a self-made man, merchant and yachtsman who created a tea brand, was a persistent challenger for the America's Cup? A: Sir Thomas Lipton
Q: Dick Turpin was famous as what sort of criminal? A: Highwayman
Q: What is the state motto of the US state of California? A: Eureka
Q: What name was given to Colleen LaRose, who was accused of conspiring with fighters overseas and pledging to commit murder in the name of a Muslim holy war, and pleaded not guilty in court in Philadelphia in March 2010? A: Jihad Jane
Q: Quinsy affects which part of the human body? A: Tonsils
Q: From which continent are native tribes and ethnic groups called the Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo, Amhara, Somali, Fula, Shona, Zulu, Hutu, Maasai, Tutsi and Nubians? A: Africa
Q: Who directed the allied forces at the second Battle of El Alamein? A: Montgomery
Q: What astronomical instrument was used in Classical Antiquity and through the medieval Islamic world, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance by astronomers, navigators, and astrologers to locate and predict the positions of the Sun, Moon, planets and stars, determine local time or latitude, for surveying and to cast horoscopes? A: Astrolabe
Q: What 1965 film was credited with saving 20th Century Fox from bankruptcy? A: The Sound of Music
Q: "Who formulated the ""Law"" that, in a paramagnetic material, the magnetization of the material is (approximately) directly proportional to an applied magnetic field, but if the material is heated, the magnetization is (approximately) inversely proportional to temperature?" A: Pierre Curie
Q: "What would one do with a ""snood""?" A: Wear it
Q: In which state of Australia would you find the area known as the Katherine Region? A: Northern Territory
Q: What is the name for someone who engages in the scientific study of fermentation? A: Zymurgist
Q: On 1 November 2010, the San Francisco Giants won the baseball World Series 41, their first World Series since 1954. Who did they defeat? A: The Texas Rangers
Q: What is alternative name for the prongs of a fork? A: Tines
Q: What award is the equivalent of the Oscars for live American theatre? A: Tonys
Q: In 2006, Michelle Bachelet became the first female president of which country? A: Chile
Q: "Who was the female star of the 1984 film ""Ghostbusters""?" A: Sigourney Weaver
Q: What is another name for a wildebeest? A: Gnu
Q: Until the introduction of the Euro on 1 January 2002, which country had the guilder as its basic currency unit? A: The Netherlands
Q: What did George W Bush get from Tony Blair as a birthday present in 2006? A: Sweater
Q: When a snooker game is set up, what ball is set closest to the centre of the table? A: Blue
Q: "Where was the cocktail ""daiquiri"" invented?" A: Cuba
Q: """The Year of Three Popes"", involving Pope Paul VI, Pope John Paul I and Pope John Paul II, is the name given to which year?" A: 1978
Q: Grounation Day (April 21) and Coronation Day (November 2) are important holy days in which religion? A: Rastafarian
Q: What was the stage name of Mary O'Brien? A: Dusty Springfield
Q: What is the technical term for heart burn? A: Pyrosis
Q: Tic-tac-toe is another name for which game? A: Noughts and crosses
Q: "In the ""Back to the Future"" series of films, the past was 1955, and the future was 2015. When was ""now""?" A: 1985
Q: What caused 12,000 deaths in 4 days in London in 1952? A: Smog
Q: The tributaries of which river are the Olifants River (Elephant River), the Shashe River, Mzingwane River, Crocodile River, Mwenezi River and Luvuhu River? A: The Limpopo
Q: What is the specific name for the chain, cable, or mooring line (or a combination of these) which is attached to a ship's anchor at one end and the ship itself at the other? A: Rode
Q: Who famously put his telescope to his blind eye to ignore the orders of his superiors at the Battle of Copenhagen? A: Lord Nelson
Q: "Where is the British TV series ""Doc Martin"" set?" A: Portwen
Q: "What is ""UDFy-38135539"" which was calculated in October 2010 to be 13 billion light years away?" A: Galaxy
Q: In cricket, what fielding position is on the boundary behind the wicket keeper, on the off side? A: Third man
Q: What was the largest empire in history, that began with maritime exploration in the 15th century, and by 1921 governed about 458 million people and covered about 36.6 million km (14.2 million square miles), about a quarter of the world's population and of the Earth's area? A: British
Q: Peruvian Lina Medina, aged 5, made history in 1939 as the youngest person to do what? A: Give birth
Q: "Swiss scientist Albert Hofmann was talking about what when he said ""I think that in human evolution it has never been as necessary to have this substance. It is just a tool to turn us into what we are supposed to be. ?" A: Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD)
Q: "Harold I of England was nicknamed ""Harold "" what?" A: Harefoot
Q: "In Samuel Beckett's play ""Waiting For Godot"", which 2 characters appear together, briefly, once in each act?" A: Pozzo and Lucky
Q: In which country did the idea of Father Christmas coming down the chimney and leaving presents originate? A: USA
Q: From 1935 to 1946, the Philippines was officially called The Commonwealth of the Philippines when the country was a commonwealth of which nation? A: USA
Q: In golf, the Ryder Cup and the biennial Presidents Cup for teams representing the USA and International (non-European) players are unusual in that they use what scoring system? A: Match play
Q: "Besides Meredith Vieira, who has been the host of the US version of ""Who Wants to Be a Millionaire"" since it began airing in 1999?" A: Regis Philbin
Q: "Who featured on the 2006 UK #1 single ""Thunder in My Heart Again"" by Meck SP?" A: Leo Sayer
Q: "What novel, alternatively entitled ""There and Back Again"", is a fantasy novel by J R R Tolkien, published in September 1937?" A: The Hobbit
Q: Since 1961, with what group have Eric Baker, Sean MacBride, Martin Ennals Dirk Brner, Thomas Hammarberg, Jos Zalaquett, Suriya Wickremasinghe, Wolfgang Heinz, Franca Sciuto, Peter Duffy, Annette Fischer, Ross Daniels, Susan Waltz, Mahmoud Ben Romdhane, Colm O Cuanachain, Paul Hoffman, Jaap Jacobson, Hanna Roberts, Lilian Gonalves-Ho Kang You, Peter Pack, Peter Benenson, Ian Martin, Pierre San, Irene Khan and Salil Shetty been associated? A: Amnesty International
Q: "What sport is featured in the play ""Foreskin's Lament"" by Greg McGee?" A: Rugby
Q: On 11 May 2010 David Cameron was asked by Queen Elizabeth II to form a government and, as Prime Minister of the UK, announced that he wished to lead a formal coalition of the Conservative Party and which other party? A: Liberal Democrats
Q: What is the name of the special type of glass in which champagne should be served? A: Flute
Q: What is the surname of the father and son actors Martin and Charlie? A: Sheen
Q: "Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot was the ""real"" name of which Batman villain?" A: Penguin
Q: "The historically significant ""Wind of Change"" speech was made by British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan on 3 February 1960 to the Parliament of which country?" A: South Africa
Q: "Who wrote ""The Naked Ape"" and ""The Human Zoo""?" A: Desmond Morris
Q: "What is the name of the song by Kenny Rogers that includes the lines ""You got to know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em, Know when to walk away and know when to run""?" A: The Gambler
Q: What name was given to the predominant type of 20th-century battleship, with an 'all-big-gun' armament & steam turbine propulsion, that was named after the first of the kind, launched by the Royal Navy in 1906? A: Dreadnought
Q: An oenophile is fond of what? A: Wine
Q: "What does ""feng shui"" mean literally?" A: Wind and water
Q: Where is the pituitary gland situated? A: Brain
Q: Pirates operating off the coast of which country took over $100 million in ransom payments between 2007 and 2009? A: Somalia
Q: P B S Pinchback was the first non-white and first person of African American descent to become governor of a US state, serving for 35 days from 9 December 1872, to 13 January 1873. Which state was this? A: Louisiana
Q: The annual rock festival at Roskilde is held in which country? A: Denmark
Q: Whose body was buried in 1543 in an unnamed tomb in the Catholic church of Frombork, Poland, exhumed in 2005, and buried there for a second time in May 2010 in a ceremony conducted by the archbishop of Gniezno and primate of Poland? A: Nicolaus Copernicus
Q: What is the name of the 12 levels of proficiency in judo and karate? A: Dan
Q: Which religion is based on the teachings of Siddartha Gautama? A: Buddhism
Q: "The statue called ""Manneken Pis"", of a small boy relieving himself, is in which city?" A: Brussels
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by twins? A: Gemini
Q: Which British TV soap opera ran from 2 November 1964 to 4 April 1988 with minor changes of name, was revived on 5 March 2001, went into hiatus from August 2002 to January 2003, with the final episode broadcast on 30 May 2003? A: Crossroads
Q: The numbers 111, 222, 333, 444, 555, 666, 777, 888 and 999 are all multiples of what number? A: 37
Q: Traditionally, the leader of a symphony orchestra plays what? A: The violin
Q: "When Winston Churchill said ""Now this is not the end, nor is it even the beginning of the end, but it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning"", which event was he talking about?" A: The Second Battle of El Alamein
Q: Rosehill racecourse is in which Australian city? A: Sydney
Q: What disease reached epidemic proportions in Haiti late in 2010? A: Cholera
Q: In 1932 the Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd unified with the principal regions of Al-Hasa and Qatif to form which country? A: The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Q: How many letters are there in the Turkish alphabet? A: 29
Q: Which TV series contained the characters Sybil, Polly, Basil and Manuel? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: "What animal takes part in Olympic ""dressage"" events?" A: Horse
Q: "A ""Wobbegong"" is a type of what?" A: Shark
Q: Scott Robinson, Ritchie Neville, J Brown, Abs Breen and Sean Conlon were the founder members of which boy band? A: 5ive
Q: "The term ""rope-a-dope"" is from what sport?" A: Boxing
Q: "The phrase ""Mountain Standard Time"" refers to what mountains?" A: Rockies
Q: "The flag of which country is a horizontal tricolour of ""deep saffron"" at the top, white in the middle, and green at the bottom with, in the centre, a navy blue wheel with twenty-four spokes?" A: India
Q: "Billy Blaze, an 8-year-old genius who constructed a spaceship in his backyard from old soup cans and other household objects called ""The Bean-with-Bacon Megarocket"" puts on his brother's football helmet and becomes what character in a video game series?" A: Commander Keen
Q: In the Bible, Goliath was a member of what group? A: Philistines
Q: Who, before being awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for 2003, was the first author to be awarded the Booker Prize twice? A: J M Coetzee
Q: Who is a former British triple jumper who held the Olympic, Commonwealth, European and World records, and has held the world record in the event since 1995? A: Jonathan Edwards
Q: "Who is involved in a ""curtain call""?" A: Performers
Q: "Who wrote, often with Howard Greenfield, the songs ""Oh! Carol"" (1959), ""Calendar Girl"" (1960), ""Little Devil"" (1961), ""Happy Birthday Sweet Sixteen"" (1961), ""Breaking Up Is Hard to Do"" (1962) and ""Next Door to an Angel"" (1962)?" A: Neil Sedaka
Q: "On 1 September 2010, In the Iraq War, the USA replaced the name ""Operation Iraqi Freedom"" by what?" A: Operation New Dawn
Q: What is the name of the transition from a liquid state directly to a gas of an element or compound? A: Vaporisation
Q: If Christmas Eve falls on a Monday, what day will New Year's Day be? A: Tuesday
Q: What term applies to an engine comprising two banks of four cylinders inclined towards each other, with a common crankshaft? A: V8
Q: Which football team returned home from the 2010 African Nations Cup in Angola after their bus was shot at and three people were killed? A: Togo
Q: "The ""Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act"" signed into law in the US state of Arizona on 23 April 2010 to take effect on 28 July 2010, concerns what?" A: Illegal immigration
Q: "Whose autobiography was entitled ""A Long Walk to Freedom""?" A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Tofu is made by coagulating what, and compacting the resulting curds into blocks? A: Soy milk
Q: Which body of water borders the state of Washington, USA? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: Where is the boxing venue known as Madison Square Garden? A: New York
Q: "Who wrote ""Come friendly bombs and fall on Slough, it isn't fit for humans now""?" A: Sir John Betjeman
Q: How many Mexican states share a land border with the USA? A: 6
Q: What is the term for reactions some people have that are severe and life-threatening allergies (to environmental or dietary allergens or to medication)? A: Anaphylactic
Q: Ashley Jensen played Maggie Jacobs in which TV series? A: Extras
Q: What was the name of the British Royal Yacht that entered service in 1953 and decommissioned on 11 December 1997? A: Britannia
Q: In 1314, who led the Scottish forces at the Battle of Bannockburn? A: Robert the Bruce
Q: A theory of the workings of the human body adopted by Greek and Roman physicians and believed until the 19th century was that it was filled with 4 basic substances (black bile, yellow bile, phlegm, and blood). These were collectively known as what? A: Humours
Q: Which New Zealand cricketer, a left-handed batsman who captained New Zealand in 4 Tests in the early 1950s, was one of Wisden's cricketers of the year for 1950? A: Bert Sutcliffe
Q: The internal angles of a triangle add up to how many degrees? A: 180
Q: Where would you find the river called The Ouse? A: England
Q: What is a polytunnel used for? A: Gardening
Q: Where are the 2018 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XXIII Olympic Winter Games, to be held? A: Pyeongchang, South Korea
Q: What city, founded around 1048 by King Harald III, was largely destroyed by fire and rebuilt from 1624 by King Christian IV and named Christiania, and reverted to its original name in 1925? A: Oslo
Q: Who won the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest? A: ABBA
Q: A PSA test is used to detect what? A: Prostate cancer
Q: Who was shot dead on 9 October 1967 while trying to organise a revolution in Bolivia? A: Che Guevara
Q: What phrase refers to a deceitful or treacherous person? A: Snake in the Grass
Q: Which card game, originating in Spain and introduced to England in 1861, is played between 2 persons with 2 packs of cards (with sixes and below removed) who are dealt 8 cards each? A: Bezique
Q: "Where is Mozart's opera ""The Marriage of Figaro"" set?" A: Spain
Q: For what activity would one use a bunsen burner? A: Chemistry
Q: Commander Shepard, Jacob Taylor, Miranda Lawson, Thane Krios, Grunt, Jack, Mordin Solus, Samara, Morinth, Legion, Zaeed Messani, Garrus Vakarian and Tali'Zorah Vas Neema are characters in which computer game? A: Mass Effect 2
Q: From what are capers obtained? A: Flower buds
Q: Where was playwright Samuel Beckett born? A: Ireland
Q: "What is another name for the ""Aurora Borealis""?" A: Northern lights
Q: "What international consumer item does the ""Economist"" use to compare purchasing power between countries?" A: Big Mac
Q: In 2005, what major sporting event was delayed 25 minutes due to the wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles? A: Grand National
Q: "Whose 33rd album was called ""In Search of the Fourth Chord""?" A: Status Quo
Q: What type of geographical feature is an ox-bow? A: Lake
Q: Who, as US Secretary of State under President Eisenhower from 1953 to 1959, advocated an aggressive stance against communism, supported France in the war in Indochina, and played a major role in the CIA operations to overthrow democratic governments in Iran in 1953 and in Guatemala in 1954? A: John Foster Dulles
Q: What is Canada's largest province by area? A: Quebec
Q: At which UK General Election was Helen Grant elected, the Conservative Party's first black female MP? A: 2010
Q: During World War II, what was the name given to deliberately created simulations of burning towns that were constructed in Britain to decoy German night bombers away from bombing real towns? A: Starfish sites
Q: "According to the nursery rhyme ""Polly put the kettle on"", who took it off again?" A: Sukey
Q: Salvador Dali was a principal figure in what artistic movement? A: Surrealism
Q: What does a person with narcolepsy do? A: Falls asleep
Q: On what day in 1066 was William I crowned King of England in Westminster Abbey? A: Christmas Day
Q: What Texas city stands on the Rio Grande (Ro Bravo del Norte), across the border from Ciudad Jurez, Chihuahua, Mexico? A: El Paso
Q: "What professional golfer was known as ""The Great White Shark""?" A: Greg Norman
Q: The metropolitan area of Ottawa is in Quebec and which other Canadian province? A: Ontario
Q: What is it called when a surfer falls off the surfboard while riding a wave? A: Wipeout
Q: Who defeated the British army in 1879 at the Battle of Isandlwana? A: Zulus
Q: "What name was used for two forests in J. R. R. Tolkien's ""Hobbit""/ ""Lord of the Rings"" saga, the first under Morgoth's control, and the second under the influence of Sauron?" A: Mirkwood
Q: What gas is used to make carbonated soft drinks and soda water? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: In which TV programme is it usual for a house resident to be evicted every week? A: Big Brother
Q: The Safari Rally, a round of the World Rally Championship from 1973 to 2002 held in Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika, was first run as a commemorative event, in what year? A: 1953
Q: Which war pitted anarchists, socialists, and Communists supported by the Soviets and international volunteers, against conservatives, monarchists, nationalists and fascists, with the support of Portugal, Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany? A: The Spanish Civil War
Q: Which country occupies the islands called Palawan, Mindoro, Marinduque, Masbate, Batanes, Bohol, Leyte and Samar? A: Philippines
Q: What metal marks a 10th wedding anniversary? A: Tin
Q: Claris Cliff is a famous designer of what items? A: Pottery
Q: Which wonder of the ancient world was at Halicarnassus, Persia? A: Mausoleum of Mausolus
Q: What is a lizardfish native to the waters between Mumbai and Kutch in the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal and the China Sea? A: Bombay Duck
Q: What organisation was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1917, 1944 and 1963? A: International Committee of the Red Cross
Q: With which sport is Don Bradman associated? A: Cricket
Q: At the 1988 Olympics, the team from Great Britain defeated West Germany to win gold in which sport? A: Field hockey
Q: Who was shot by Valery Solanas on 3 June 1968? A: Andy Warhol
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, what followed Mary everywhere? A: Lamb
Q: As whom is Eunice Waymon better known? A: Nina Simone
Q: Clive Owen starred in the title role of which 2004 film directed by Antoine Fuqua and written by David Franzoni, with Ioan Gruffudd, Keira Knightley and Ivano Marescotti? A: King Arthur
Q: In which sport is a contest called honbasho or basho? A: Sumo wrestling
Q: Which country withdrew from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in 2008 after it became a net importer of oil? A: Indonesia
Q: Which award-winning band are named after a South African football team? A: Kaiser Chiefs
Q: Abraham Ortelius, a Flemish cartographer and geographer, is generally recognised as the creator of the first what in 1570 ? A: Modern atlas
Q: "How many US states begin with the letter ""O""?" A: 3
Q: "When is Shakespeare's play ""Troilus and Cressida"" set?" A: The Trojan War
Q: David Leadbetter and Butch Harmon are coaches in which sport? A: Golf
Q: If someone is dismissed from one's employment, what are they said to be given? A: Sack
Q: If 3 consecutive numbers add up to 27, what is the smallest of those numbers? A: 8
Q: Who was on the throne of England when Francis Drake fought the Spanish Armada in 1588? A: Elizabeth I
Q: The first Punic War was fought mainly on which island? A: Sicily
Q: "Who was the female lead in the film ""Casablanca""?" A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: Cautley Spout, Gocta, Hannoki, ShirAbad, and Shoshone are the names of what? A: Waterfalls
Q: "In golf, what is the term for ""four strokes under par""?" A: Condor
Q: What basic food can be evaporated, condensed, pasteurised or dried? A: Milk
Q: Which Jewish festival, celebrated on the 14th and 15th of March, is to commemorate the preservation of the Jews in Persia from the destruction threatened by Haman? A: Purim
Q: Competitors from which country won the most medals at the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships held in Rotterdam, Netherlands from 16 to 24 October 2010? A: People's Republic of China
Q: What 2005 science fiction-thriller film starring Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving, Stephen Rea and John Hurt, is an adaptation of a comic book by Alan Moore and David Lloyd? A: V for Vendetta
Q: What is the current name of the country that was ruled by the Pahlavi dynasty from 1925 to 1979? A: Iran
Q: The sausage tree, Kigelia or Worsboom is native to which continent? A: Africa
Q: The islands of Kos, Leros, Nisyros, Patmos and Rhodes are in what sea? A: Mediterranean
Q: Who was British prime minister at the start of World War I? A: Herbert Asquith
Q: What is a medical term referring to the presence of pathogenic organisms in the bloodstream, leading to blood poisoning? A: Septicemia
Q: Members of what family were killed in the Massacre of Glencoe in Scotland, on 13 February 1692? A: McDonald
Q: "Which fictional character referred to his wife as ""She Who Must Be Obeyed""?" A: Rumpole of the Bailey
Q: What is the name of the leg action used in breaststroke? A: Frog kick
Q: In English folklore, what symbolises fertility and rebirth? A: The Green Man
Q: What is the highest mountain in Austria? A: Grossglockner
Q: The boundaries of four states of the USA, known as the Four Corners states, meet at one point, the only such geographic point in the USA. They are Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and which other? A: Utah
Q: What was the occupation of Anna Politkovskaya, who was found dead in the elevator of her apartment in central Moscow on 7 October 2006, shot twice in the chest, once in the shoulder, and once in the head at point blank range? A: Journalist
Q: What are chlorine, bromine and iodine? A: Halogens
Q: "What fictional island off the coast of Sumatra that first appeared in the 1933 film ""King Kong"" is the home of King Kong and other creatures?" A: Skull Island
Q: "What meteorological phenomenon is named after the Arabic word for ""season""?" A: Monsoon
Q: "What is the middle name of Sir Austin Powers, KBE, a fictional character who first appeared in ""Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery"" (1997) and is portrayed by Mike Myers?" A: Danger
Q: Which Australian, a winner of Golden Globe, BAFTA, Screen Actors Guild and Australian Film Institute awards, became, in 2009, one of 17 people to have won an Academy Award, a Tony Award and an Emmy Award? A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: The London embassy of which country was seized in 1980 by gunmen demanding the release of political prisoners? A: Iran
Q: Ricky Ponting represented Australia in what sport? A: Cricket
Q: What creature is on the flag of Bhutan? A: Dragon
Q: "A US TV series (1974 to 1982) was called ""The Little House ... "" where?" A: On The Prairie
Q: Italy controlled which country from 1911 to 1943? A: Libya
Q: """A pitch"" is the way that the ball is put into play in which game?" A: Baseball
Q: "What genre did Howard L. Chace, a professor of French, use when he wrote ""Ladle Rat Rotten Hut"", the story of Little Red Riding Hood written using English words (but never the correct ones) to demonstrate that the intonation of spoken English is almost as important to the meaning as the words themselves?" A: Homophonic transformation
Q: Mandy Rice-Davies, Christine Keeler and Stephen Ward all became infamous in the UK for their part in what event in the 1960s? A: The Profumo Affair
Q: "According to the saying, what ""wasn't built in a day""?" A: Rome
Q: What items are in lots of 52 as standard, each with a unique combination of numbers and symbols? A: Playing cards
Q: "What is a variation of the standard card game of poker which consists of two cards being dealt face down to each player and then 5 community cards being placed by the dealer (3 as ""the flop"" then 1 called ""the turn"", then 1 called ""the river""), with players having the option to check, bet or fold after each deal?" A: Texas Hold 'Em
Q: The seven brightest stars of which constellation form the asterism known as the Big Dipper in the United States and Canada, or the Plough in the United Kingdom and Ireland? A: Ursa Major
Q: Early in November 2010, the Pope made a speech in which he relaxed the church's rules on what? A: Contraceptives
Q: "Who painted ""Number 5"" in 1948?" A: Jackson Pollock
Q: The magician David Copperfield broke off his engagement to whom in 1999? A: Claudia Schiffer
Q: Who won the Indycar Championship in 1993? A: Nigel Mansell
Q: How many sides does a hendecagon have? A: 11
Q: "From 14 November 1994 when services began until 14 November 2007, from where did ""Eurostar"" trains leave London for Paris?" A: Waterloo
Q: In Greek mythology, Hera sent two serpents to kill which baby? A: Heracles
Q: The Forest of Arden appears in which Shakespearean play? A: As You Like It
Q: In 2008, who became the first female recipient of the Latin Recording Academy Person of the Year award? A: Gloria Estefan
Q: The UEFA cup is a soccer tournament for teams from which continent? A: Europe
Q: "If someone is referred to as ""ursine"", what animal are they being compared to?" A: Bear
Q: "What was the setting for the British TV series ""Taggart""?" A: Glasgow
Q: What needlework technique incorporating features of embroidery, cutwork and needle lace, popular in England in the 19th century, is characterised by patterns composed of small holes or eyelets bound with overcast or buttonhole stitches? A: Broderie Anglaise
Q: What did the British nickname the V1 rocket during the London Bitz during World War II? A: Doodlebug
Q: What is the largest inland delta? A: Okavango Delta
Q: What area of Paris is served by the metro stations of Anvers, Blanche, Pigalle, Abbesses, Lamarck - Caulaincourt and Jules Joffrin? A: Montmartre
Q: "Of whom did the Greek philosopher Plutarch write ""Plato admits 4 sorts of flattery, but she had 1,000""?" A: Cleopatra
Q: "In which of Shakespeare's plays is Brutus described as ""the noblest Roman of them all""?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: What is the official spoken language of China? A: Mandarin
Q: What, the largest of its type at the time, was destroyed by fire at Alexandria in the first century BC? A: Library
Q: What is the largest city in the province of Ontario, Canada? A: Toronto
Q: "In soccer, how far does ""the wall"" of players have to be from the spot where a free kick is to be taken?" A: 10 yards
Q: "In 1984, who had a hit single snging about how he ""got my first real six-string, bought it at the five-and-dime, played 'til my fingers bled. It was summer of '69""?" A: Bryan Adams
Q: Most of the state of Nevada is in which time zone? A: Pacific
Q: A rhombus has how any sides? A: 4
Q: What name was given to a series of protests and political events that took place in Ukraine from late November 2004 to January 2005? A: The Orange Revolution
Q: What character was played by Bill Cosby in his long running TV series? A: Cliff Huxtable
Q: What was Cleopatra's favourite colour? A: Purple
Q: In February 2010, Joseph Stack, a 53 year old software engineer, crashed his light plane into Internal Revenue Service offices in which city? A: Austin, Texas
Q: "Who created the comic strip ""The Wizard of Id""?" A: Brant Parker and Johnny Hart
Q: "In the nursery rhyme beginning ""Hey Diddle Diddle"", who was with a fiddle?" A: Cat
Q: The markka is the base unit of currency in which country? A: Finland
Q: Lavalava is a word common in the South Pacific. What does it mean? A: A rectangular cloth worn as a skirt
Q: Who was the mother of Queen Elizabeth I of England and Ireland? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: Who married Ethan Hawke in 1998? A: Uma Thurman
Q: In what country were measures announced on 22 April 2010 by the Prime Minister to cut consumption of power, affecting the length of the official weekend, signs, government offices, air conditioners, street markets, commercial centers, weddings and wells? A: Pakistan
Q: What religious organisation was formed under the leadership of George Fox in the mid 17th century? A: Quakers
Q: What are the bottom-most 3 to 5 fused vertebra of the backbone called? A: Coccygeal
Q: The European parliament meets in Strasbourg and which other city? A: Brussels
Q: What chemical element takes its name from the Roman name for Paris? A: Lutetium
Q: In 2010 at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, who beat England's Jonny Wilkinson's record for scoring 1178 points in test match rugby? A: Dan Carter
Q: "The ""Ballad of Chevy Chase"" is an old English folk song about what event?" A: The Battle of Otterburn
Q: The Vistula is the longest river in which country? A: Poland
Q: Which British political party led by John Hargrave wore green shirts as a uniform? A: Social Credit
Q: What colour are copper sulphate crystals? A: Blue
Q: "What 1999 film had the tag line ""Bigger, Longer and Uncut""?" A: South Park
Q: "The ""Authorised"" English translation of the Bible was named after whom?" A: James I
Q: "Where is the ""Summer Palace"" which is also known as the ""Garden of Nurtured Harmony""?" A: Beijing
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 2 points? A: Yellow
Q: What name is given to the items collected by a woman in anticipation of marriage? A: Hope chest
Q: What military slang term for members of the US Marine Corps was derived from a special collar once worn around the neck by both American and British Marines and soldiers from 1798? A: Leathernecks
Q: Roger Moore first played James Bond in which film? A: Live and Let Die
Q: What device is used to regulate a person's heart rate? A: Pacemaker
Q: What is the capital of Wales? A: Cardiff
Q: "What is the media nickname of Viktor Bout, a Russian arms dealer who was said to be the inspiration for Nicolas Cage's character in the 2005 film ""Lord of War""?" A: Merchant of Death
Q: A cor anglais is what type of instrument? A: Brass
Q: Who was the 2005 European Eventing Champion? A: Zara Phillips
Q: By what name were Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, David Dellinger, Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, John Froines, Lee Weiner, and Bobby Seale collectively known when they appeared before Judge Julius Hoffman in 1969? A: The Chicago Eight
Q: Who signed and issued the Emancipation Proclamation on New Year's day 1863? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which of North America's Great Lakes has the same name as a province of Canada? A: Ontario
Q: "Where did the old woman who ""had so many children she didn't know what to do"" live?" A: Shoe
Q: In April 2010, after riots in the capital which overthrew the government, President Kurmanbek Bakiyev left which country, leaving the way clear for the head of the new provisional government, Roza Otunbayeva? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: What is another word for jet lag? A: Desynchronosis
Q: What were the frequent subjects of French impressionist painter Dgas? A: Ballet dancers
Q: What is the former home and burial place of George Washington? A: Mt Vernon
Q: Who was tried for treason on 17 November 1603 for trying to remove James I from the Engish throne? A: Walter Raleigh
Q: The Garonne river passes through Toulouse and Bordeaux after rising where? A: The Pyrenees
Q: Myalgic pain affects which part of the body? A: Muscles
Q: Who is second in the line of US presidential succession, following the Vice President? A: Speaker of the House of Representatives
Q: "What is an ""indigent"" person?" A: Poor
Q: Longacre Square, a major intersection in Manhattan, New York City, at the junction of Broadway and Seventh Avenue and stretching from West 42nd to West 47th Streets, has been known as what since April 1904? A: Times Square
Q: In snooker, what colour ball is spotted on the centre of the table? A: Blue
Q: More than 99% of the mass of our solar system is contained within what? A: The Sun
Q: When was the first World Cup cricket contest held? A: 1975
Q: "These are the last lines of which musical: ""Eliza? Where the devil are my slippers""?" A: My Fair Lady
Q: What temperature scale is referenced to absolute zero (i.e. where there is the theoretical absence of all thermal energy)? A: Kelvin
Q: In which classic arcade is the object to get an amphibian across a busy road? A: Frogger
Q: A synapse is a space where a nerve impulse travels between what? A: Neurons
Q: Mick Rock has what occupation in the recording industry? A: Photographer
Q: Since 1980, what has been the official country residence of the British Foreign Secretary? A: Chevening
Q: How many orbits of the earth did John Glenn make in Mercury-Atlas 6 in 1962? A: 3
Q: Who was the Roman god of the underworld? A: Pluto
Q: Who, in Formula One, between 2006 and 2010, was the youngest Formula One driver to: drive at a Grand Prix meeting, score points, lead a race, secure pole position, win a race and win the championship? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: "A ""parsec"" is a measure of what?" A: Distance
Q: "Who directed the 2003 film starring Ewan McGregor, Billy Crudup and Albert Finney called ""Big Fish""?" A: Tim Burton
Q: Which musical was written by Tim Rice with two ex-members of ABBA? A: Chess
Q: The Dalai Lama fled Tibet in 1959 due to its occupation by troops from what country? A: China
Q: The Jewish festival of the Passover is held around the same time as which Christian festival? A: Easter
Q: What part of the body is affected by conjunctivitis? A: Eye
Q: On 13 November 2010, who became the first boxer to win world titles in eight different weight divisions and the first boxer to win the lineal championship in four different weight classes? A: Manny Pacquiao
Q: In England, what breed of dog is raced in an industry which, in 2007, attracted gates of around 3.2 million people at over 5,750 meetings across 26 stadiums? A: Greyhounds
Q: "What type of music is Handel's ""Messiah""?" A: Oratorio
Q: The element cobalt gets its name from the German word for what? A: Goblin
Q: Which country was proclaimed a People's Republic on 1 October 1949, following the defeat of forces led by Chiang Kai-shek? A: China
Q: What bridge, completed in the 12th century, is on the Rhone? A: Pont d'Avignon
Q: "Which company designed the ""safety pin dress"" worn by Liz Hurley to a 1994 Los Angeles film premiere?" A: Versace
Q: What sport is competed in the Giro de Italia? A: Cycling
Q: Memorial Day, formerly known as Decoration Day, a US federal holiday observed on the last Monday of May to commemorate US men and women who died while in the military service, was first commemorated to honour soldiers in which war? A: American Civil War
Q: What country is due north of Hawaii? A: USA
Q: "What was the setting for the 1980 film ""Fame""?" A: New York High School of Performing Arts
Q: Who led a team to make the Cumberland Gap, a way through the Appalachian Mountains, accessible to pioneers, who used it to journey into the western frontiers of Kentucky and Tennessee? A: Daniel Boone
Q: Between 1903 and 1904, sites in the Australian townships of Albury, Tumut, Orange, Bombala and Dalgety were considered for what purpose? A: The capital of Australia
Q: In what TV series was Oceanic Airlines flight 815 a critical factor? A: Lost
Q: """Peptic"" refers to which activity of the human body?" A: Digestion
Q: Where is the 82,000 seat Maracana Stadium? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: What is the title of Geri Halliwell's autobiography, published in 1999? A: If Only
Q: Tony Hawk won 9 gold medals at what annual event between 1995 and 2002? A: Summer X-Games
Q: "What was the only single by ABBA to reach number 1 on the US ""Billboard"" charts?" A: Dancing Queen
Q: "If Prince William of Wales, the elder son of Charles and Diana, Prince and Princess of Wales, becomes ""King William"", what number will he be?" A: William V
Q: Which country is the world's largest producer of rice? A: China
Q: Which character in the comic strip Charlie Brown plays the piano? A: Schroeder
Q: The US Civil War was in which century? A: 19th
Q: What colour is a domesticated Pekin duck? A: White
Q: In which sea is the British overseas territory of Montserrat? A: Caribbean
Q: "The musical ""The Sound of Music"" is set in what city?" A: Salzburg
Q: What is the most popular sports competition in Australia? A: AFL Football
Q: Usually, the United Kingdom holds general elections every four years. In the 20th century, how many times did the UK hold more than one general election in one year? A: 2
Q: The stress that causes a metal object to break is called metal what? A: Fatigue
Q: What is a religious censure used to deprive or suspend membership in a religious community? A: Excommunication
Q: What is the offficial language of Australia? A: English
Q: """f you wanna make the world a better place, take a look at yourself then make a change"" is a line from what song?" A: Man In The Mirror
Q: From 1885 to 1908, a corporate state of 2,344,000 km (905,000 square miles), privately controlled by Leopold II, King of the Belgians, became infamous for mistreatment of the local peoples and exploitation of natural resources. What was this area known as? A: Congo Free State
Q: Who caused the crash of Pacific Southwest Airlines Flight 1771, near Cayucos, California, USA on 7 December 1987, by shooting the pilots and killing all 43 people on board? A: David Burke
Q: What US state borders both Kansas and Utah? A: Colorado
Q: "What word means a ""sudden revelation""?" A: Epiphany
Q: What was the first black and white short cartoon film produced by Walt Disney? A: Steamboat Willie
Q: Which American explorer claimed to have been the first person, on 6 April 1909, to reach the geographic North Pole? A: Robert E Peary
Q: What was the only part of the British Isles to be occupied by Germany in World War II? A: Channel Islands
Q: What game is played on ice with large stones fitted with handles with the aim to place them as close as possible to a fixed mark called a tee? A: Curling
Q: A candela is a measure of what? A: Luminous intensity
Q: "In the British version of ""The Apprentice"", which first went to air in February 2005, who do the contestants try to get a job with?" A: Alan Sugar (Lord Sugar)
Q: On which island is Marsamxett Harbour? A: Malta
Q: "What does the French word ""croissant"" mean?" A: Crescent
Q: "What sport is featured in ""Chariots of Fire"", a 1981 film starring Ben Cross?" A: Running
Q: What is the median of 1, 2, 2, 5, 9 and 17? A: 3.5
Q: "A ""Howitzer"" is a type of what?" A: Gun
Q: The migration of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his followers from Mecca to the city of Medina in 622, which marked year one of the Islamic calendar, was known as what? A: Hijra
Q: Which King of Macedon created one of the largest empires in ancient history between 336 and 323BC, including most of the city-states of mainland Greece and the (then) Persian-ruled Asia Minor? A: Alexander The Great
Q: Where are the Minoan ruins of Knossus? A: Crete
Q: Sleepers are used to support what? A: Railway lines
Q: What name was given to the political and social movement that united the states of the Italian peninsula into the single country of Italy in the 19th century? A: Il Risorgimento
Q: Mount Vesuvius overlooks what area? A: Bay of Naples
Q: How many lungs should a human have? A: 2
Q: In freestyle skiing, what are the large bumps on the piste called? A: Moguls
Q: After the Battle of Landriano, French monarch Franois I was forced to concede defeat in which war? A: The War of the League of Cognac
Q: On the Christian calendar, what is the day before Ash Wednesday? A: Shrove Tuesday
Q: "Reed Richards, Susan ""Sue"" Storm (Reed's wife), Johnny Storm (Sue's younger brother), and Ben Grimm are the secret identities of which fictional group?" A: Fantastic Four
Q: In Greek mythology, who were the children of Uranus and Galatea? A: Titans
Q: "Who was Marlon Brando's co-star in the 1972 film ""Last Tango in Paris"", directed by Bernardo Bertolucci?" A: Maria Schneider
Q: With what country is the sombrero associated? A: Mexico
Q: Between 1989 and 2002, the UK's Dalton Grant was a gold medal winner in what sport? A: High jump
Q: Andrea Jaeger of the US had a successful career in professional tennis, becoming World Ranked number 2, between the ages of 15 and 19, but it ended prematurely due to major shoulder injuries. What profession did she take up in 2006? A: Nun
Q: "What was the name of the ""state"" that was never officially admitted into the Union of the USA after delegates from some North Carolina counties declared independence from North Carolina in 1784, and, in 1788, went back to being part of North Carolina?" A: Franklin
Q: What name was given to a narrative poem typically sung by trouvres (medieval minstrels)? A: Lay
Q: Burge Al Arab Hotel, built in the shape of a sail, is where? SP A: Dubai
Q: In cricket, what name is given to a lower-order batsman who comes in to bat higher up the order than usual near the end of the day's play, to maintain most of the strike until the close of play and so protect other, more capable batsmen from being out cheaply in what may be a period of tiredness or in poor light? A: Nightwatchman
Q: In Greek mythology, Zeus disguised himself as a swan to seduce whom? A: Leda
Q: Which band played a free concert with a claimed 1.5 million attendance at the Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro on 18 February 2006? A: The Rolling Stones
Q: A manx cat has no what? A: Tail
Q: What is the next in this series: Philemon, Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter ... ? A: 1 John
Q: Where is it that Roman Catholics believe souls are held after death for purification to be made fit for heaven? A: Purgatory
Q: French actress Catherine Deneuve has been married once, from 1965 to 1972, to whom? A: Photographer David Bailey
Q: In Greek mythology, who thought up the idea of the Trojan Horse? A: Odysseus
Q: Balsam and cottonwoods are species of what? A: Poplar
Q: What was name of the last English monarch from the House of Hanover? A: Victoria
Q: When did a man last walk on the moon? A: 1972
Q: Who was Minister-Chairman of the Russian Provisional Government and Prime Minister of Russia from 21 July 1917 (following the abdication of Tsar Nicholas II) to 8 November 1917 (the Bolshevik revolution), who is buried in Putney Vale Cemetery, London? A: Alexander Kerensky
Q: "According to the Bible, ""money is the root of all ..."" what?" A: Evil
Q: Marti Pellow was the lead vocalist of what group? A: Wet Wet Wet
Q: Who became the head of the UK's Lawn Tennis Association in 2006? A: Roger Draper
Q: The USA won the most medals at the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000. Out of these countries, which one won the most? A: Australia
Q: In Greek mythology, who rode Pegasus, the flying horse? A: Perseus
Q: What country has the most Catholics in the population? A: Brazil
Q: Bob Geldolf was lead singer for which band? A: Boomtown Rats
Q: "What is the title of a detective crime novel by Robert B. Parker, written as an authorised sequel to ""The Big Sleep"" by Raymond Chandler?" A: Perchance to Dream
Q: Which suit is the most powerful, i.e. apart from no trumps, in Contract Bridge? A: Spades
Q: Edward the Confessor became King of England in which century? A: 11th
Q: What is the name of the supercomputer at the National Supercomputer Center in Tianjin, China, one of the few petaFLOP-level supercomputers in the world, that in October 2010 became the world's fastest supercomputer, performing at peak computing rate of 2.507 petaflops? A: Tianhe-1A
Q: What was the first name of the first First Lady of the USA? A: Martha
Q: What is the name for a squirrel's nest? A: Drey
Q: In 1965, who became the first person to summit Mount Kennedy, at the time the highest mountain in Canada that had not yet been climbed, that had been named in honour of John F Kennedy after his assassination? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: Who commanded the Spartan fleet in the Hellespont, which defeated the Athenians at Aegospotami in 405 BC? A: Lysander
Q: Drummer Rick Allen lost an arm in an accident but continued to perform with which band? A: Def Leppard
Q: What device, invented by Peter Cooper Hewitt in 1902 and obsolete by 1975 with the introduction of devices such as the silicon diode and thyristor, converts alternating current to direct current by means of putting electricity through vapor? A: Mercury arc rectifier
Q: La Plata is the capital city of which province of Argentina? A: Buenos Aires
Q: "Which group in a TV series were on the run for ""a crime they didn't commit""?" A: The A Team
Q: "Where is the Palazzo Farnese (the Farnese Palace), in which, in Puccini's opera ""Tosca"", the heroine confronts Scarpia, the malevolent Chief of Police?" A: Rome
Q: The Bombay duck or bummalo is what type of creature? A: Lizardfish
Q: What contest takes place when two teams pull at opposite ends of a rope? A: Tug o War
Q: Which cocktail has scotch whisky and vermouth as a base? A: Rob Roy
Q: In 300 BC, the country now known as Spain was part of which empire? A: Roman
Q: Chris Martin is the singer for which band? A: Coldplay
Q: Bear Grylls is the only person to appear in what TV series? A: Man v Wild
Q: Where was the capital of the Roman Empire in 400 AD? A: Ravenna
Q: What name is given to sympathetic pregnancy? A: Couvade syndrome
Q: Cerro Aconcagua in the Andes, the highest mountain in the Americas and the highest mountain outside Asia, is 112 km (70 miles) from which closest city? A: Mendoza, Argentina
Q: What country was divided at the 38th parallel in 1945? A: Korea
Q: "What was the name of the character played by George Clooney in the ""Oceans"" film series released from 19 to 19?" A: Danny
Q: """Die Fledermaus"" is an operetta composed by Johann Strauss II. What is a ""fledermaus""?" A: Bat
Q: "What actress, born in Muscat, Oman, began acting on Australian television on ""Paradise Beach"" and ""Home and Away"" and is known for her roles in ""Wedding Crashers"" (2005), ""Hot Rod"" (2007), ""Definitely, Maybe"" (2008) and ""Confessions of a Shopaholic"" (2009)?" A: Isla Fisher
Q: What is the largest species of whale? A: Blue whale
Q: The Romanov Dynasty (Peter I, Catherine I, Peter II, Anna, Ivan VI, Elizabeth, Peter III, Catherine II the Great, Paul I, Alexander I, Constantine I, Nicholas I, Alexander II , Alexander III and Nicholas II) ruled which country? A: Russia
Q: What is the motto of the Hells Angels? A: When we do right, nobody remembers. When we do wrong, nobody forgets
Q: A shadoof is for lifting what? A: Water
Q: The parliament of which country has met at the Binnenhof since 1446? A: Netherlands
Q: Where was the Battle of Hastings, which took place on 14 October 1066 between the Norman army of Duke William II of Normandy and the English army of King Harold II? A: Senlac Hill
Q: "Who produced the film ""12 Angry Men"", which was scripted by Reginald Rose, starred Henry Fonda and was directed by Sidney Lumet?" A: Henry Fonda
Q: What murderer lived at 10 Rillington Place, Notting Hill, London? A: John Christie
Q: "On 9 November 2010, what first-person shooter video game broke the 24-hour sales record, selling more than 5.6 million copies in the U.S. and U.K., breaking the record set by its predecessor, ""Modern Warfare 2"" by around 900,000 copies?" A: Call of Duty: Black Ops
Q: Pedology is the study of what? A: Soil
Q: What part of the body is affected by the condition called rickets? A: Bones
Q: What was the code name for the German invasion of Russia in World War II? A: Operation Barbarossa
Q: With what activity was Isadora Duncan associated? A: Dance
Q: "What type of story begins ""once upon a time"" and ends ""they lived happily ever after""?" A: Fairy tale
Q: What was the first land passage between Manhattan Island and Brooklyn that, on its opening in 1883, became the longest suspension bridge in the world and its towers the tallest structures in the Western Hemisphere? A: Brooklyn Bridge
Q: Which medieval work of literature, sometimes called the world's first novel, is still available today? A: The Tale of Genji
Q: What is the name of Janet Jackson's (deceased) superstar brother? A: Michael
Q: "What phrase means ""let the buyer beware""?" A: Caveat emptor
Q: What multi-user adventure game was developed from 1978 by Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle from 1980, students at Essex University in the UK, that revolved around gaining points till one achieved the wizard rank, giving the player immortality and certain powers over mortals? A: MUD (Multi-User Dungeon)
Q: """The Gorbals"" is an area in which city?" A: Glasgow
Q: At the start of a game of chess, there are 16 of which pieces on the board? A: Pawns
Q: In which state of Australia would you find the area known as the Barkly Tableland? A: Northern Territory
Q: "According to a report by the organisation called ""Transparency International"", what was the most corrupt country in the world in 2009?" A: Somalia
Q: What spoken word competition, which has been organised for many years by Gary Hallock, has been held every May since 1978 in Austin, Texas? A: The O. Henry Pun-Off
Q: What is the generic title of a series of French comic strips that follows the exploits of a village of ancient Gauls as they resist Roman occupation by means of a magic potion brewed by their druid, which gives them superhuman strength? A: The Adventures of Asterix
Q: What name is given to the disease whereby parasites can change the behaviour of rats and mice, making them drawn to rather than fearful of the scent of cats? A: Toxoplasmosis
Q: "Clive Owen played ""Dwight"" in which 2005 film?" A: Sin City
Q: The team from which country won the tennis tournament for the Davis Cup in 2010? A: Serbia
Q: "Who wrote the stage play ""The Rise and Fall of Little Voice""?" A: Jim Cartwright
Q: In biology, what word is given to the change in the genetic material of a population of organisms from one generation to the next? A: Evolution
Q: World War I took place mostly on what continent between 1914 and 1918? A: Europe
Q: "Who said ""Pressure, I'll tell you what pressure is. Pressure is a Messerschmidt up your backside. Playing cricket is not""?" A: Keith Miller
Q: Which country held its bicentennial celebrations in 1976? A: USA
Q: "Who wrote the books ""Fourplay"" (published in 2001), ""The Ex Files"" (2003), ""dot.homme"" (2004), ""Second Wives Club"" (2005) and ""Love @ First Site"" (2005)?" A: Jane Moore
Q: "What was the occupation of the character called Ross Geller in the TV series ""Friends""?" A: Palaeontologist
Q: The Great Pyramid of Giza was built for King Khufu as a what? A: Tomb
Q: "What bird is nicknamed ""man of war"" because it steals food from other birds in the air?" A: Frigate bird
Q: Formaggio marcio is notable for containing what? A: Live insect larvae
Q: "The lyric ""Then I got Mary pregnant and man that's all she wrote, and for my 19th birthday I got a union card and a wedding coat"" is from which song?" A: """The River"" by Bruce Springsteen"
Q: What measurement has been used for the intensity of earthquakes? A: Richter scale
Q: Which English King was married to Eleanor of Aquitaine? A: Henry II
Q: "Who created the work ""A Thousand Years"", consisting of a cow's head, maggots and an insect electrocutor?" A: Damien Hirst
Q: What is an insincere expression of sorrow? A: Crocodile tears
Q: "The ""Byzantine Empire"" is the term used since the 19th century to describe the Roman Empire of the Middle Ages, centred on its capital, where?" A: Constantinople
Q: """Well you can tell by the way I use my walk, I'm a woman's man, no time to talk"" are lyrics from which song by the Bee Gees?" A: Stayin' Alive
Q: Appenzeller, Bndner Bergkse. Casalina, Crava, Dorset Blue Vinney, Giglio Sardo, Labneh. Piave, Sage Derby and Strica are all types of what? A: Cheese
Q: Anthony Wilding is the only New Zealander in what sport's Hall of Fame? A: Tennis
Q: Where did the Phnom Penh stampede occur, on 22 November 2010 when 378 people died and upwards of 755 more were injured? A: On a bridge
Q: "In the twelve years since it began on 4 September 1998, how many contestants in the UK version of ""Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?"" won 1,000,000?" A: 5
Q: Which professional surfer who died on 2 November 2010, the only surfer to have won a title at every venue on the ASP calendar, had won 3 world titles (2002, 2003, 2004) and as recently as 3 September 2010 had won the Billabong Pro in Tahiti? A: Andy Irons
Q: "In the English legal system, what does a lawyer become when he ""takes silk""?" A: QC
Q: How many different people were Prime Minister of New Zealand in the first 100 years after it became a Dominion in 1907? A: 21
Q: The Bretton Woods Agreements, signed by 44 nations in 1944, were about what? A: International finance
Q: What is the British Engineerium, in Hove? A: An engineering and steam power museum
Q: The first Transit of Venus in the 21st century took place on 8 June 2004. What is the date of the next one? A: June 2012
Q: What did the band S Club 7 change their name to when Paul Cattermole left in June 2002? A: S Club
Q: What is the name for a mountain in Scotland with a height over 3,000 ft (914.4 m). A: Munro
Q: "What fictional ship, with black hull and sails, was originally named ""Wicked Wench""?" A: Black Pearl
Q: Traditionally, Easter buns are eaten on which day? A: Good Friday
Q: Jean Todt, Morrie Chandler,Graham Stoker and Brian Gibbons have been recently involved in the adminstration of which sport at an international level? A: Motorsport
Q: Who discovered and named the element francium in 1939? A: Marguerite Perey
Q: "The name of which board game means ""I play"" in Latin?" A: Ludo
Q: What name is given to the murder of 7 people as part of a Prohibition Era conflict between the South Side Italian gang led by Al Capone and the North Side Irish gang led by Bugs Moran in Chicago, Illinois, in 1929? A: The Saint Valentine's Day massacre
Q: What does a mycologist study? A: Fungi
Q: In America, as what was Bill Shoemaker famous? A: Jockey
Q: Project Habakkuk was a plan by the British in World War II to construct what from ice? A: Aircraft carriers
Q: In 2009, what name was proposed for the bridge connecting roads for a new route across the Colorado River for U.S. Route 93, known as the Hoover Dam Bypass? A: Mike O'Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial Bridge
Q: Where are the Wahibah Sands? A: Oman
Q: What nationality is tennis player Gaston Gaudio? A: Argentinian
Q: What land was recorded by the American captain Benjamin Morrell of the schooner Wasp in March 1823, in the Weddell Sea area of Antarctica, the existence of which was not disproved until during Antarctic expeditions in the early 20th century? A: New South Greenland
Q: "Where is the opera house ""La Fenice"" that reopened in 2003 after its second fire in just under 200 years?" A: Venice
Q: Where would one find the Appleton layer? A: The earth's upper atmosphere
Q: Who was the third wife of Henry VIII? A: Jane Seymour
Q: What generic term describes food traditionally favoured by southern black Americans such as country fried chicken, chitterlings and black-eyed peas? A: Soul food
Q: In 1961 in Paris, the French police attacked a peaceful but illegal demonstration of around 30,000 people, killing between 40 and 200, who were protesting about what? A: Algerian War
Q: What part of the body is affected by a stye? A: Eye
Q: "What was the cause of the sinking of the ""Lusitania"" in May 1915 and the subsequent deaths of 1,198 people?" A: She was torpedoed
Q: "In music, what word means ""to be performed without any break between - smooth and sustained""?" A: Legato
Q: The tiger is native to which continent? A: Asia
Q: According to Greek mythology, who spent eternity in the underworld with food and drink just out of reach? A: Tantalus
Q: What is a pre-Columbian Inca site located 2,430 metres (7,970 ft) above sea level, on a ridge above the Urubamba Valley in Peru? A: Machu Picchu
Q: What country will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup competition? A: Qatar
Q: Who is the only person to win both an Oscar and a Nobel Prize for lterature? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Until Tony Blair, which of Britain's Labour Prime Ministers was in office for the longest overall time? A: Harold Wilson
Q: An optometrist is concerned with what part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Which English King died of dysentery while campaigning in France? A: Henry V
Q: LeBron James, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade play what sport professionally for the Miami Heat? A: Basketball
Q: "Who ""rocked in the treetops all the day long"" to a chorus of ""Tweet, tweet, tweedley deet""?" A: Rockin' Robin
Q: The first vice-president of the USA to be elected President, the father of a future President, assistant in drafting the Declaration of Independence and negotiating peace with Great Britain, and architect of vital government loans from the Netherlands, was who? A: John Adams
Q: What is a common nickname for the English city of Oxford? A: The city of dreaming spires
Q: Which 2003 drama film, named after a painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and directed by Peter Webber, stars Scarlett Johansson, Colin Firth, Tom Wilkinson & Cillian Murphy? A: Girl with a Pearl Earring
Q: Who is the only president of the USA to serve non-consecutive terms? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: How many pairs of strings are there on a mandoline? A: 5
Q: In 1961 US President John F Kennedy negotiated for the release of the 1,189 survivors out of 1,500 men directed and trained by the USA who had tried to invade which country? A: Cuba
Q: What is the name for an angle greater than 180 degrees and less than 360 degrees? A: Reflex
Q: Since its debut in the UK in 1998, international versions of which TV programme have spawned in over a hundred countries, more than any other game show? A: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire
Q: Asperger's syndrome is believed to a form of what? A: Autism
Q: A home for music and intimate performance, well-established in Europe in the 19th century, flourishing in early 20th century, and attended by a wide cross-section of society, sparked a number of films. What was the name for the venue and style? A: Cabaret
Q: """Peggy"" is a shortened version of what name?" A: Margaret
Q: "Since 14 November 2007, from where do ""Eurostar"" trains leave London for Paris? on Eurostar services in London transferred from Waterloo to the brand new St Pancras International" A: St Pancras
Q: How long, to the nearest mile, is an Olympic marathon? A: 26
Q: James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth, declared himself King and was crowned in Chard and in Taunton in 1685 in an attempt to overthrow whom? A: James II
Q: What is the word for a document issued by a political party before an election that sets out party policies? A: Manifesto
Q: Michael Jordan was with which team when they won 6 National Basketball Association titles? A: Chicago Bulls
Q: The original line-up of which band was Gary, Howard, Jason, Mark and Robbie? A: Take That
Q: The epiglottis is in what part of the body? A: Throat
Q: What is the Hindu Kush? A: Mountain range
Q: """Magic"" Johnson was a leading player in which sport?" A: Basketball
Q: """Massacre in Korea"", a 1951 expressionistic painting by Pablo Picasso which is seen as a criticism of American intervention in the Korean war is drawn from the painting ""The Third of May 1808"", which shows Napoleon's soldiers executing Spanish civilians, by whom?" A: Francisco Goya
Q: What was invented by Rene Laennec in the early 19th century? A: Stethoscope
Q: London Bridge, bought for US$2.5 million from the City of London when the bridge was replaced in 1968, crosses a 930ft (280m) long man-made canal in Lake Havasu City in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: What is the early morning or night prayer service in the Roman Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran and Eastern Orthodox churches, used in some Protestant denominations to describe morning services? A: Matins
Q: The head of state of Jersey and Guernsey, which are both Crown dependencies and not part of the United Kingdom, is Queen Elizabeth II. She rules there because she holds what title? A: Duke of Normandy
Q: Who was president of the USA at the outbreak of World War II? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: What is the name of the surface used to play a game of curling? A: Sheet
Q: "Who painted ""Portrait of Adele Bloch Bauer"", which sold at auction for $US135 million in 2006?" A: Gustav Klimt
Q: When was the North Atlantic Treaty which established NATO signed? A: 1949
Q: Artist David Hockney was born in what country? A: England
Q: "What role is played by Elizabeth Hurley in the 2000 film ""Bedazzled""?" A: The Devil
Q: What is the standard measure used in the oil production industry? A: Barrel
Q: Who is Joseph Alois Ratzinger? A: Pope Benedict XVI
Q: What was the capital of West Germany from 1945 to 1999? A: Bonn
Q: "Where was the 1991 film ""The Commitments"" set?" A: Dublin
Q: Which cricketer has scored the most first class centuries in history? A: Jack Hobbs
Q: Urticaria affects what part of the body? A: Skin
Q: What tax was current in ancient Athens, in Jerusalem more than 2,000 years ago, in Egypt, in Europe and England from time to time (leading in 1381 to Wat Tyler's rebellion), including Charles I's, Charles II's, and Margaret Thatcher's governments, in Canada and the USA, and in NZ among others? A: Poll Tax
Q: What is the largest city in the province of British Columbia, Canada? A: Vancouver
Q: The NBA team the Supersonics is based in which US city? A: Seattle
Q: What word is applied to a Muslim devotee, usually a monk or wandering mendicant? A: Dervish
Q: Which Roman goddess is the equivalent of the Greek goddess Aphrodite? A: Venus
Q: "What sport is featured in the film ""Blades of Glory"", starring Will Ferrell and Jon Heder?" A: Ice skating
Q: The now-extinct Elephant Bird, believed to have been 3 metres tall and weigh 500 kg, was believed to have inhabited what area? A: Madagascar
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Still Life"", on which the 1945 film ""Brief Encounter"" was based?" A: Noel Coward
Q: In September 2010, The Beach Boys allegedly threatened a lawsuit due to a line in which song by Katy Perry featuring Snoop Dogg? A: """California Gurls"""
Q: What street leads to the front of Buckingham Palace in London? A: The Mall
Q: In the USA, what name is given to an isolated hill with steep sides and a small flat top? A: Butte
Q: What is the stringy substance used to clean between the teeth? A: Floss
Q: In jazz, what kind of singing is vocal improvisation with nonsense syllables or without words at all, whereby singers have the ability to create the equivalent of an instrumental solo using their voice? A: Scat
Q: What musical instrument is Woody Allen known for playing? A: Clarinet
Q: Which musical by Elton John and Lee Hall, which revolves around a motherless boy who trades boxing gloves for ballet shoes and is based on a 2000 film, opened in London's West End in 2005? A: Billy Elliot the Musical
Q: Port Said is at the entrance to which canal? A: Suez
Q: "Who was the first to be quoted as saying ""There are three types of lies: lies, damned lies and statistics""?" A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: "What book introduced ""the Thought Police""?" A: 1984
Q: What is the fluid in which the human foetus grows? A: Amniotic fluid
Q: The Tuareg and the Berber inhabit which desert? A: Sahara
Q: Gregory Peck played attorney Sam Bowden in what 1962 film? A: Cape Fear
Q: Which country, between 1964 and 1973, became the most bombed country in the world? A: Laos
Q: The Australian species of what bird has the longest beak in the world? A: Pelican
Q: On a roulette wheel, what colour is the number 5? A: Red
Q: Which religion is most associated with kosher food? A: Judaism
Q: The Pilton Festival that started in 1970 and is held annually is now called what? A: Glastonbury Festival
Q: What religion is the Dalai Lama? A: Buddhist
Q: "The Central Criminal Court, London, which is also known as ""The Old Bailey"", stands on the site of what structure, now demolished?" A: Newgate Prison
Q: Lake Titicaca is in which mountain range? A: Andes
Q: What was the alliance of Eastern European nations, the counterpart of NATO, during the Cold War? A: Warsaw Pact
Q: "Who provides the voice for Gromit in the ""Wallace and Gromit"" series of TV shows?" A: No-one
Q: "What kind of beverage is ""oolong""?" A: Tea
Q: On 3 July 1844, which bird became extinct when the last two were killed by hunters? A: Great Auk
Q: "In the 1989 film ""Batman"", the Joker revealed his real name, which was ?" A: Jack Napier
Q: """Wild geese"" was the name given to soldiers who fought as mercenaries in continental armies in the 16th to 18th centuries who were from which country?" A: Ireland
Q: What rock band played together for the first time in over 20 years at the London Live Eight Concert in 2005? A: Pink Floyd
Q: The Summer Olympic Games 2016 will be held where? A: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Q: What is the largest country by land area in Central America? A: Nicaragua
Q: "Where was ""the Bhopal disaster"" that took place at a pesticide plant owned and operated by Union Carbide (UCIL), when the plant released methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas and other toxins in December 1984, exposing over 500,000 people?" A: Madhya Pradesh, India
Q: What is Judge Judy's last name? A: Sheindlin
Q: "What musical term means ""an immediate reduction in pace""?" A: Ritenuto
Q: In 1954, in a television adaptation of a book by Ian Fleming, Barry Nelson was the first person to appear on a screen as which fictional character? A: James Bond
Q: In 1469, the crowns of the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon were united by the marriage of Isabella and Ferdinand. This was an important event in the history of which country? A: Spain
Q: The asteroid belt is a series of rocks that orbit the sun between Mars and which other planet? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the capital of Turkey and the country's second largest city? A: Ankara
Q: Where is the Gulf of Bothnia? A: Baltic Sea
Q: "The lead character in the TV series ""Lovejoy"", which was based on stories by John Grant (under the pen name Jonathan Gash), was an expert in what?" A: Antiques
Q: "Who launched a perfume called ""Lovely""in 2005?" A: Sarah Jessica Parker
Q: "A ""mufti"" is a legal expert in what religion?" A: Islam
Q: In 1978 George Moscone, the mayor of which city, and openly gay city supervisor Harvey Milk were assassinated by ex-supervisor Dan White? A: San Francisco
Q: What is the sum of the even numbers between 1 and 9? A: 20
Q: "The painting that has the words ""ceci n'est pas une pipe"" written on it, is by which artist?" A: Magritte
Q: What world leader surprisingly announced his resignation on 31 December 1999? A: Boris Yeltsin
Q: What was Victoria Beckham's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Posh
Q: Which term was coined by the US computer scientist Grace Hopper in 1945? A: Bug
Q: Kanukai Jackson represented England at the 2002 Commonwealth Games at what sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: In November 1963, a place called Dealey Plaza become famous for what event? A: The assassination of John F Kennedy
Q: Vientiane is the capital of which country? A: Laos
Q: Artists Chuck Close, Henri-Edmond Cross, John Roy, Georges-Pierre Seurat, Paul Signac, Maximilien Luce and Vincent van Gogh painted in what style? A: Pointillism
Q: "What does the SI unit ""Newton"" measure?" A: Force
Q: "Who directed the 2005 film ""Munich""?" A: Steven Spielberg
Q: Which British boxer lost the heavyweight title in 1972? A: Ken Buchanan
Q: "What was the setting for the 1960s children's TV adventure series ""Daktari""?" A: East Africa
Q: Which country occupies the islands called Euboea, Kefalonia, Khos, Zakynthos, Thassos, Lefkada, Karpathos and Kythira? A: Greece
Q: "Who adopted the surname ""Mountbatten"" in 1947?" A: Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh
Q: "The satellite ""Aryabhata"", launched on 19 April 1975, to conduct experiments in X-ray astronomy, aeronomics, and solar physics, was built by which country?" A: India
Q: "Which inn that stood on the east side of Borough High Street in Southwark accommodated pilgrims headed on annual pilgrimage to the Shrine of Thomas Beckett in Canterbury Cathedral, and is mentioned in Geoffrey Chaucer's ""The Canterbury Tales""?" A: The Tabard
Q: In 1958, the Dodgers baseball team moved to Los Angeles from where? A: Brooklyn, New York
Q: At which city was Kai Tak airport replaced by Chek Lap Kok in 1998? A: Hong Kong
Q: On the buttons of a tape, VCR or DVD player, what does the sign in the shape of a single right pointing arrow mean? A: Play
Q: Edward Elgar's March no 1 in D contains the tune of what song? A: Land of Hope and Glory
Q: What was the name given to the line of German defences that ran across Italy from east to west just north of Florence? A: Gothic Line
Q: "In the musical ""West Side Story"", where have about half of the characters (including ""Maria"" and her family) emigrated from?" A: Puerto Rico
Q: Who is the protagonist in the Tomb Raider series of computer games? A: Lara Croft
Q: "Who is the author of the fiction books ""Lace"" (published in 1982), ""Lace 2"" (1985), ""Savages"" (1987), ""Crimson"" (1992), ""Tiger Eyes"" (1994), ""Revenge of Mimi Quinn"" (1998) and ""The Amazing Umbrella Shop"" (1990)?" A: Shirley Conran
Q: The minting of which English gold coin began in 1663, and ceased in 1817? A: Guinea
Q: "What was the first name of the ""Rambo"" character created by Sylvester Stallone?" A: John
Q: What is the word in music for any set of different notes that is heard as if sounding simultaneously? A: Chord
Q: The Oscar statuettes are made of gold-plated britannium. During World War II, they were made of what material? A: Plaster
Q: What programme run by the US Government since 1961 involves volunteers who work abroad for 24 months in the areas of education, business, information technology, agriculture & the environment? A: The Peace Corps
Q: What was Ellis Island, in New York harbour, used for from 1892 to 1954? A: Processing immigrants to the USA
Q: What German engineer led the design teams for the V2 rocket that blitzed London and the Saturn V rocket for the US space programme? A: Werner von Braun
Q: "Who was the female lead in the film ""Leprechaun""?" A: Jennifer Aniston
Q: The first playoff tiebreaker in Major League Baseball history was held on 1 & 3 October 1946, a best-of-three playoff to decide the winner of the MLB National League (NL) conference, between which 2 teams? A: St. Louis Cardinals and Brooklyn Dodgers
Q: What is the largest moon of Pluto? A: Charon
Q: "In the British TV series ""Til Death Do Us Part"", who played Alf Garnett's wife?" A: Dandy Nichols
Q: "What type of drink is ""scrumpy""?" A: Cider
Q: What are Gray's Inn, Lincoln's Inn, The Inner Temple and The Middle Temple, all in London? A: Inns of Court
Q: Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall are mentioned in what 1982 hit song? A: """Key Largo"" by Bertie Higgins"
Q: "Who plays Mark Sloan in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Patrick Dempsey
Q: The North Atlantic Treaty was signed in Washington, D.C. in 1949 by Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, UK, US, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Canada and which other country? A: Iceland
Q: Which artist was the architect for the dome of St Peter's Basilica, Rome? A: Michelangelo
Q: The Super Bowl, the championship game of the premier association of professional American football, was first held in what year? A: 1967
Q: Marie Curie named which element in homage to her homeland? A: Polonium
Q: Which US president declared the first national Mother's Day in the USA? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: What device enables a player to use the same chord shapes on a guitar to be played a number of frets higher to raise the key uniformly? A: Capo
Q: In climbing and mountaineering, where are crampons worn? A: Feet
Q: Dr Kay Scarpetta was invented by which author? A: Patricia Cornwell
Q: The autonomous region of Catalonia is in which country? A: Spain
Q: The Abominable Snowman, a mythological ape-like cryptid said to inhabit the Himalayan region of Nepal and Tibet, is also known as what? A: Yeti
Q: Magnus Carlsen, at the age of 18, became the world's youngest what? A: Chess champion
Q: "A song written by Chuck Berry is ""Roll Over ... "" who?" A: Beethoven
Q: What district in the south of Rio de Janeiro has a beach 4km long? A: Copacabana
Q: What is the chemical symbol for tin? A: Sn
Q: What are dehydrated to make raisins? A: Grapes
Q: "Who worked on the film scripts for ""Barbarella"", ""Dr Strangelove "", ""Easy Rider"", ""Candy"" and ""The Magic Christian""?" A: Terry Southern
Q: Sirhan Sirhan was convicted of the assassination of whom? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: "What is ""mightier than the sword"" in the old saying?" A: Pen
Q: Die Dreigroschenoper (The Threepenny Opera) by Kurt Weill was based on which work? A: The Beggars Opera
Q: What is the capital of Namibia? A: Windhoek
Q: Before 1949, by what name was Thailand known? A: Siam
Q: Gwyneth Paltrow played which American poet in a 2003 film? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: Which comic strip has the characters Violet Gray, Linus, Rerun and Lucy van Pelt, Schroeder, Marcie, Franklin and Frieda? A: Charlie Brown
Q: On 24 July 2010 at least 19 people are killed and 100 others injured in a stampede at which music festival in Duisburg, Germany? A: Love Parade
Q: Which constellation, that lies between Taurus to the west and the dim Cancer to the east, with Auriga and Lynx to the north and Monoceros and Canis Minor to the south, is associated with the myth of Castor and Pollux, collectively known as the Dioscuri? A: Gemini
Q: Eye of newt, toe of frog, wool of bat, tongue of dog, lizard's leg, owlet's wing, scale of dragon, tooth of wolf, liver of blaspheming Jew, gall of goat, slips of yew, nose of Turk and Tartar's lips were some of the ingredients for a famous preparation made by whom? A: The Three Witches
Q: "The term ""checkmate"" is based on a phrase from which language?" A: Persian
Q: In the SI system, what is the basic unit for the measurement of electric current? A: Ampere
Q: The words of the national anthem for which country were written by Francis Scott Key? A: USA
Q: What was Merlin's position at the court of King Arthur? A: Wizard
Q: Which set of 19 piano pieces based on folk themes were composed by Franz Liszt between 1846 and 1885 and named after his homeland? A: The Hungarian Rhapsodies
Q: In depictions of the Hindu God Rama, he is famously holding what in his right hand? A: Bow and arrow
Q: Christiaan Huygens has been credited with inventing what in the 1650s? A: Pendulum clock
Q: """Pulmonary"" refers to which organ?" A: Lungs
Q: Who of these is supposedly buried in the town of Santiago de Compostela, in North Western Spain? A: St James
Q: "Who is being spoken about with the Shakespearean line ""Frailty, thy name is woman""?" A: Hamlet's mother
Q: "Spinoff TV series from ""Beverly Hills, 90210"" included ""Melrose Place"", ""90210"" and which other?" A: Models Inc
Q: Which member of the trio ZZ Top does not have a chest-length beard, only a trimmed mustache? A: Frank Beard (drums and percussion)
Q: The constellation Volpecula means what? A: Little fox
Q: Which organisation was involved in a scandal in the 1980s, concerning the 1982 $3.5 billion collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, has been the subject of a US government report which accused it of funding the Solidarity Polish trade-union and the Contras, and managing US covert funds, was reported in 2009 of being investigated for money laundering transactions worth 180 million (US$ 218 million) and in September 2010 came under investigation for other money laundering charges? A: The Institute for Works of Religion
Q: Who won the Tour de France every year from 1991 to 1995? A: Miguel Indurain
Q: Macadamia is a type of what? A: Nut
Q: """He's got this dream about buyin' some land. He's gonna give up the booze and the one night stands. And then he'll settle down, there's a quiet little town, and forget about everything"" is a line from which hit song of the 1970s?" A: Baker Street
Q: What is the most populous city in Africa? A: Cairo
Q: Who, after a distinguished cricketing career, in his last ever test match innings was bowled out for a duck by Eric Hollies? A: Don Bradman
Q: "Who is associated with the phrase ""history is bunk""?" A: Henry Ford
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1975 film ""The Man Who Fell to Earth""?" A: David Bowie
Q: As at October 2011, ice covers about what percentage of the world's land surface? A: 10
Q: In which famous piece of music by Tchaikovsky does the French national anthem appear? A: 1812 Overture
Q: "Who wrote the music for the ballet ""Swan Lake""?" A: Tchaikovsky
Q: What is a specific learning disability involving innate difficulty in learning or comprehending mathematics, similar to dyslexia? A: Dyscalculia
Q: The early kings of Scotland are buried on which island? A: Iona
Q: Kerkyra is what the locals call what island? A: Corfu
Q: What is the name of the British annual pop music awards, that are held in February each year? A: The Brit Awards
Q: What region lies mainly in the Dinaric Alps, ranging to the southern borders of the Pannonian plain, with the rivers Sava and Drina marking its northern and eastern borders? A: Bosnia
Q: The word plagiarism comes from the Latin word meaning what? A: Kidnapping
Q: "What is the literal translation of the Russian word ""Kremlin""?" A: Fortress
Q: "What was the subtitle of the 1904 play ""Peter Pan"" by J M Barrie?" A: The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up
Q: Before 2012 when was the most recent time the Summer Olympics were held in London, UK? A: 1948
Q: Which playwright wrote the plays that won the Tony Award for Best Play in 1963 & 2002 and the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1967, 1975 & 1994, and gained nominations for Tony Award for Best Play in 1964, 1965, 1967 & 1975, Tony Award for Best Author of a Play in 1965, the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 2001 & 2003 and a Tony Award for Best Revival of a Play in 2005? A: Edward Albee
Q: How many players per side are allowed on the field in a game of rugby league? A: 13
Q: Who was sent by the African Association in 1795 to find the source of the River Niger? A: Mungo Park
Q: The French and what other nation sent colonists to New Zealand in the 1830s? A: Great Britain
Q: "What TV series contained the frequent line ""Let's be careful out there""?" A: Hill Street Blues
Q: What is the name of the test cricket venue in Leeds, England? A: Headingley
Q: How many US states do not border another US state? A: 2
Q: "Francis Drake captained the ship ""Revenge"" during naval engagements concerning what?" A: The Spanish Armada
Q: What is the next in this series: 2000, Me, XP, Vista ... A: 7
Q: What caused Richard I of England to be out of the country between 1190 and 1194, when his younger brother John tried to take control? A: The Third Crusade
Q: Who is Rome's airport named after? A: Leonardo Da Vinci
Q: "Where was ""the Maccabiah bridge collapse"", the failure of a pedestrian bridge over the Yarkon River on 14 July 1997 which killed 4 and injured 60?" A: Tel Aviv, Israel
Q: "Who is the author of the 2009 political memoir ""Going Rogue""?" A: Sarah Palin
Q: Danny and Sandy are the main characters in which musical? A: Grease
Q: What is the name of the lighthouse off the coast of Angus at the mouth of the Firth of Tay, which is also called Bell Rock? A: Inchcape
Q: What word means the judgement (using analysis and evaluation) of the merits and faults of the actions or work of another individual, which now has an implication of an expression of disapproval? A: Criticism
Q: "What was the stage name of Brenda Mae Tarpley, an American singer of rockabilly, pop and country music who had 37 US chart hits during the 1960s (a number surpassed only by Elvis Presley, The Beatles, Ray Charles and Connie Francis) and was best known for her 1960 hit ""I'm Sorry""?" A: Brenda Lee
Q: After 2007, which boat class was not run as a World Rowing Championship event? A: Coxed fours
Q: Stories about what fictional heroes were written under the pen name of Franklin W Dixon? A: The Hardy Boys
Q: Who is the nursery rhyme gardener? A: Mary Mary
Q: During World War II, Operation Sealion was the codename for the invasion of which area? A: Britain
Q: What board game is played with 24 pieces on a board marked with 64 squares, where the object is to capture an enemy piece by passing over it to a vacant square behind it? A: Draughts
Q: The last element to be discovered in nature, rather than synthesized, was discovered In 1939. What was it? A: Francium
Q: """Nimrod"" is a piece of music written by Edward Elgar as part of what larger work?" A: The Enigma Variations
Q: In which country did a suicide bombing take place in Taksim Square on 31 October 2010, resulting in at least 32 injuries, 15 of whom were police officers? A: Istanbul
Q: What country has borders with Libya, Sudan and Israel? A: Egypt
Q: With which country is the bouzouki most associated? A: Greece
Q: According to Greek mythology, what was the deepest part of hell? A: Tartarus
Q: "The word ""Droogies"" was coined in which novel, made into a film directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick in 1971?" A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: "Which of the few of the original Star Wars trilogy cast believed that the film would be a box office hit and did a deal for two percent of the gross, but later proposed to George Lucas that his character be killed off because he ""just couldn't go on speaking those bloody awful, banal lines""?" A: Alec Guiness
Q: What is the word for a male turkey? A: Tom
Q: "What is the main ingredient in ""yellowcake""?" A: Uranium
Q: """Whispering"" Ted Lowe was associated with which sport?" A: Snooker
Q: Who portrays the fictional character Captain Jack Sparrow on film? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Who was Indiana Jones' 11 year old Chinese sidekick in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom? A: Short Round
Q: What is a word game where paragraphs are written in which a particular letter or group of letters is omitted? A: Lipogram
Q: The Ishtar Gate, constructed around 575BC by order of King Nebuchadnezzar II, was a gate to which city? A: Babylon
Q: What are the epic tales associated with Iceland traditionally called? A: Sagas
Q: The Tracy family were the lead characters in which British TV series? A: Thunderbirds
Q: The names of how many continents end with the same letter that they started with? A: 5
Q: What was the name of the official news agency of the USSR before it broke up? A: TASS
Q: Which famous English model of the 1960s was once romantically linked to '60s photographer David Bailey and actor Terence Stamp, but married photographer Michael Cox, with whom she runs a small hotel in Penzance, Cornwall? A: Jean Shrimpton
Q: Ashkenazic and Sephardic are the two divisions of what cultire? A: Jewish
Q: Which member of the UK Parliament and member of the IRA died on hunger strike while in prison at The Maze near Belfast in 1981? A: Bobby Sands
Q: What is the name of a free improvisatory passage inserted near the end of a composition to create a feeling of suspense before the final cadence? A: Cadenza
Q: "Who released an album in 2005 called ""Confessions on a Dance Floor""?" A: Madonna
Q: "Who painted ""Red Car Crash"" as a part of his 196263 ""Death and Disaster"" series?" A: Andy Warhol
Q: Which part of the cardamom plant is used as a spice? A: Seed
Q: What is the currency used in Egypt, Syria and Lebanon? A: Pound
Q: Traditionally, in rugby, what number appears on the jersey of the fullback? A: 15
Q: What is the name for partially decayed vegetable matter that is dug up and used for fuel? A: Peat
Q: The early use of the new technology of the wireless telegram helped British police to capture whom on 31 July 1910? A: Dr Crippen
Q: On air, in September 2010, David Letterman asked whom during an interview for $US1 million for the use of a section of his programme in a film? A: Joaquin Phoenix
Q: Vemont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire & Maine are collectively known as what? A: New England
Q: What is boiled in water to form gelatine? A: Collagen
Q: Compared to playing the string open, placing a finger behind the 12th fret on a guitar finger board raises the note by how much? A: An octave
Q: Neophobia is the fear of what? A: New things
Q: """Silks"" is the name used to describe the uniform of a competitor in which sport?" A: Horse racing
Q: "What is the Latin for ""therefore""?" A: Ergo
Q: What is a voluntary association of mainly former British colonies that co-operate with common values and goals that include the promotion of democracy, human rights, good governance, the rule of law, individual liberty, egalitarianism, free trade, multilateralism and world peace? A: Commonwealth of Nations
Q: Which musical includes the characters Jean Valjean, Javert, Fantine, Cosette, ponine, Thnardier, Gavroche, Enjolras, Grantaire and Marius? A: Les Misrables
Q: Until 1997, the Group of Eight (G8), a forum for powerful governments, was the G7. Which country was the last to join, making it G8? A: Russia
Q: Who is the engineer and inventor of the noise reduction system known as Dolby NR and a co-inventor of video tape recording while at Ampex? A: Ray Dolby
Q: Which Indonesian volcano erupted in October / November 2010, forcing 70,000 people from their homes? A: Mount Merapi
Q: What is the name for a group of lines that is repeated throughout a poem or song? A: Refrain
Q: Which traditional game is played on the fingers with string? A: Cat's Cradle
Q: What did British comedian Benny Hill use as his signature tune? A: Yakkety Sax
Q: Ranidaphobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Frogs
Q: "Which of king of England was overthrown in the ""Glorious Revolution"" that occurred in Britain in 1688?" A: James II
Q: Who of these was a US senator for the state of New York from 2000 to 2008? A: Hilary Clinton
Q: "The Oregon Treaty of 1846, which divided ""the Oregon Country"" along the 49th parallel, gave the USA land which later became parts of Montana and Wyoming, and the states of Washington, Oregon and which other?" A: Idaho
Q: "Which singer had a ""wardrobe malfunction"" at the half time show at the 2004 Super Bowl?" A: Janet Jackson
Q: Tianhe-1A, the supercomputer at the National Supercomputer Center in Tianjin, China which in October 2010 became the world's fastest supercomputer, uses what operating system? A: Linux
Q: What is the name for a forked twig used in searching for something that is hidden? A: Divining rod
Q: Early in 2010, Norway's Magnus Carlsen, at 19 years old, became the youngest person to top the world ranking in what? A: Chess
Q: "Before it was changed to ""Washington D.C."" after his death, what had George Washington named Washington D.C.?" A: Federal City
Q: "What is the name of the fictional character in the land of Oz created by L. Frank Baum as ""the Good Witch of the South"" who, in the 1939 film version of ""The Wizard of Oz"" was called ""the Good Witch of the North""?" A: Glinda
Q: Where are the Huygens Gap and the Maxwell Gap? A: Saturn
Q: "A club in central London called ""The Night Tripper"" that opened on 23 December 1966 later changed its name to what?" A: The UFO
Q: "In cricket, what term is used to describe the situation when a batsman is ""out"" from the first ball in both innings?" A: King pair
Q: What is the name of the stretch of water between India and Sri Lanka? A: Palk Strait
Q: In the UK in 1926 there was a General Strike that attempted to improve working conditions for which occupational group? A: Coal miners
Q: Who did Barbie break up with in February 2004? A: Ken
Q: The Spanish throne had been vacant since 1936, and on 22 November 1975, Juan Carlos was designated King. What event caused this? A: The death of General Franco
Q: Which island is the home to a breed of tailless cat? A: Isle of Man
Q: "Who did ""True Blood"" star Anna Paquin marry on 21 August 2010?" A: Stephen Moyer
Q: Which coach of the Notre Dame american football team was killed in a plane crash in 1931? A: Knute Rockne
Q: During World War I, US president Woodrow Wilson raised an army through conscription and gave total command to whom? A: General John J. Pershing
Q: Mescaline comes from what plant? A: Cactus
Q: In the 20th century what year did Estonia first declare independence? A: 1918
Q: What did Elvis Presley tell people not to step on in 1956? A: Blue suede shoes
Q: Who was in charge of the ransacking of much of northern Italy in 452 AD? A: Attila the Hun
Q: "What type of speech includes the words ""for"", ""and"", ""nor"", ""but"", ""or"", ""yet"", and ""so""?" A: Conjunction
Q: The series of numbers that is obtained by adding the previous two together is named after whom? A: Fibonacci
Q: "The plot of the book and films entitled ""The Day of the Jackal"" concerns an attempt to kill the leader of which nation?" A: France
Q: Jim Reeves, Marty Robbins and Dolly Parton are associated with what style of music? A: Country
Q: What was the first name of Madame Tussaud, who founded a wax museum in London? A: Marie
Q: The city of Odessa is on which sea? A: Black Sea
Q: What was the name of the English law court, subsequently abolished in 1641, that had a mandate from Henry VII to deal with nobles who were too powerful to be punished by ordinary courts? A: Star Chamber
Q: What former Grand Prix motorcycle racer from New Zealand published his autobiography in late 2010? A: Graeme Crosby
Q: What Louisiana Creole dish is traditionally made with meats, vegetables, stock and rice? A: Jambalaya
Q: What is the name for the five long bones in the foot that are numbered from the big toe (the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth) and are analogous to the metacarpal bones of the hand? A: Metatarsals
Q: An aster is a type of what? A: Plant
Q: What was the name of the line of fortification that ran across Italy during World War II from just north of where the Garigliano River flows into the Tyrrhenian Sea in the west, through the Apennine Mountains to the mouth of the Sangro River on the Adriatic coast in the east via Monte Cassino and Monte Cairo? A: Gustav Line
Q: Chester Gould created which comic character, which first appeared in 1931? A: Dick Tracy
Q: What name is given to 7 mathematics problems stated by the Clay Mathematics Institute in 2000, for which a US$1,000,000 prize will be awarded for a correct solution to any of them? A: The Millennium Prize Problems
Q: Who opened the restaurants called Petrus and Amarylis in Britain? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: With what instrument are Charlie Christian, Les Paul, Tiny Grimes, Barney Kessel, Herb Ellis, Jimmy Raney, Tal Farlow, Kenny Burrell, Grant Green, Wes Montgomery, and Jim Hall associated? A: Guitar
Q: What land, a British colony for 155 years, and occupied by Japan briefly in WW II, was ceded to the People's Republic of China in 1997? A: Hong Kong
Q: How many sports were contested at the Summer Paralympics in 2012? A: 20
Q: What was the Giotto spacecraft sent to investigate in 1985? A: Halley's comet
Q: What is the largest city in the province of New Brunswick, Canada? A: Saint John
Q: What is the name of the Jewish New Year festival? A: Rosh Hashanah
Q: An act passed on 5 July 1900 and given Royal Assent by Queen Victoria on 9 July 1900 led to what milestone in the constitutional history of Australia? A: Creation of the Commonwealth of Australia
Q: Which 1959 film starring Charlton Heston won a record 11 Academy Awards? A: Ben Hur
Q: On 12 November 1991, where in Dili were pro-independence student demonstrators who were protesting the Indonesian occupation of East Timor, shot at by Indonesian forces, killing at least 250? A: The Santa Cruz cemetery
Q: What was the native language of Albert Einstein? A: German
Q: Which member country of the Council of Europe has the smallest population? A: San Marino
Q: "An ""imam"" is from which religion?" A: Islam
Q: """Devil"" was the pet wolf of which comic strip character?" A: The Phantom
Q: "What word is used to denote a summary or miniature form of something, and is also used as a synonym for ""embodiment""?" A: Epitome
Q: "Who played the role of Howard Hughes in the 2004 film ""The Aviator""?" A: Leonardo DiCaprio
Q: Which cartoon series relies on the voices of Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner, Nancy Cartwright, Yeardley Smith, Hank Azaria & Harry Shearer? A: The Simpsons
Q: Who succeeded Abraham Lincoln as US president in 1865? A: Andrew Johnson
Q: The Iguazu Falls are on the border of which two countries? A: Brazil & Argentina
Q: What US TV series concerned a New Jersey crime family? A: The Sopranos
Q: What chemical element with atomic number 55 is a soft, silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28 C (83 F), and one of only five metals that are liquid at or near room temperature? A: Caesium
Q: What colour connects 29 October 1929, 19 October 1987 and 22 November 1963? A: Black
Q: What word is used to describe someone who speaks many languages? A: Polyglot
Q: "At the start of ""Scream 2"", what was the name of the film that was shown about the ""Woodsboro Murders""?" A: Stab
Q: Who was appointed captain of Great Britain's Davis Cup team in 2006? A: John Lloyd
Q: In the Bible's book of Genesis, which of Jacob's sons was sold into slavery by his brothers? A: Joseph
Q: Which planet is named after the Greek god of the sky? A: Uranus
Q: When was the ICC, official base in The Hague in the Netherlands, established? A: 2002
Q: "The symptoms for which poisoning include seizures, a ""sawhorse"" stance, rigid extension of all four limbs and respiratory paralysis?" A: Strychnine
Q: "In the film ""Batman Forever"", released in 1995, who played the villain called ""The Riddler""?" A: Jim Carrey
Q: "Early raids by British Commando units between March 1941 and April 1943, Operations ""Claymore"", ""Anklet"", ""Archery"", ""Musketoon"" and ""Checkmate"", destroyed fish-oil factories, petrol dumps, sank ships, damaged factories and warehouses, resulted in permanent closure of a hydroelectric power plant and an aluminium plant, and captured German troops, encryption equipment and codebooks; where were they carried out?" A: Norway
Q: Where were the 2012 Paralympics held? A: London, UK
Q: Leaders in a cub scout pack are named after the characters in which book? A: """The Jungle Book"" by Rudyard Kipling"
Q: "Whose famous painting, ""The Potato Eaters"", is of five peasants sitting down to dinner?" A: Vincent Van Gogh
Q: The Volta River flows from central Ghana to where? A: Gulf of Guinea
Q: At the Freediving Individual World Championships in Aarhus, Denmark in September 2009, competitors from which country won two gold (in the Mens Static & Mens Dynamic events), two silver (Womens Static & Womens Dynamic) and two bronze medals (Womens Dynamic & Womens Dynamic No Fins)? A: New Zealand
Q: What is the name of a family of satellites launched since 1995 and operated by Eutelsat, located at 13E over the Equator (orbital position) with a transmitting footprint over Europe, North Africa and the Middle East? A: Hot Bird
Q: By what name is William Thomson better known? A: Lord Kelvin
Q: "The first band-specific game in the ""Rock Band"" series of music video games, where players simulate playing music using controllers shaped like musical instruments was ""The Beatles: Rock Band"". Who was the subject of the next one to be released?" A: Green Day
Q: The blend of tea known as Earl Grey was named after someone in what profession? A: British Prime Minister
Q: In 1963, US President Kennedy sanctioned a coup d'tat in which country to overthrow Ngo Dinh Diem, the Roman Catholic President, by his own army generals? A: South Vietnam
Q: "In motor racing, what are ""slicks""?" A: Tyres
Q: Who sang, backed by U2, as the first song in the Live 8 concert in Hyde Park, London, in 2005? A: Paul McCartney
Q: """Rawhide"" was played to a bar full of hostile country music fans in which film?" A: The Blues Brothers
Q: The discovery of what Earth-like planet with the greatest potential for harbouring life found so far, was announced in late September 2010? A: Gliese 581 g
Q: At the 1976 Summer Olympics, who was the only female competitor not to have a sex test? A: Princess Anne of the UK
Q: Which country declared war on Mexico on 13 May 1846? A: USA
Q: In what month is Thanksgiving in the USA ? A: November
Q: "When was the period of English history known as ""The Anarchy"" or ""The Nineteen-Year Winter""?" A: 12th century
Q: What is a sleep disorder characterized by pauses in breathing during sleep? A: Sleep apnoea
Q: Which player made a comeback to international tennis in 2006 after 4 years? A: Martina Hingis
Q: "The Jake Gaudaur Veterans' Trophy, presented annually to the Canadian Football League player ""who best demonstrates the attributes of Canada's veterans in times of war, peace and military conflict"", was first awarded in 2010 to Mike McCullough who played for which team?" A: Saskatchewan Roughriders
Q: Elizabeth II is the Queen regnant of how many independent sovereign states known informally as the Commonwealth realms, for which she holds each crown separately and equally in a shared monarchy? A: 16
Q: "In the fairy tale ""Sleeping Beauty"", who kissed the princess to wake her up?" A: Handsome Prince
Q: "The modern British period of history called ""The Winter of Discontent"" began when?" A: 1978
Q: Which part of the body would be treated if the patient was suffering from lumbago? A: Back
Q: "Which 18th century self-taught Liverpudlian, who studied human anatomy and spent 18 months dissecting horses, is best known for his paintings of horses (such as ""Whistlejacket""), sometimes accompanied by hounds, and of animals such as lions, tigers, giraffes, monkeys, and rhinoceroses?" A: George Stubbs
Q: In basketball, what is the offence of running with the ball called? A: Travelling
Q: Which Wonder of the Ancient World begun in 356 BC at Ephesus under the direction of Dinocrates took over a century to build? A: Temple of Diana
Q: Before she was a Member of Parliament, what was Margaret Thatcher's occupation? A: Barrister
Q: Which country was divided at the 17th parallel in 1954? A: Vietnam
Q: What was Beethoven's last symphony? A: 9th
Q: What is a curling tournament called? A: Bonspiel
Q: What arcade game, based on the concept of eating, was developed primarily by Tru Iwatani over the course of a year in 1979/80, with a nine-man team? A: Pac-Man
Q: What Christian church observes The Sabbath on Saturday? A: The Seventh Day Adventist Church
Q: "Whose alter egos have included Ziggy Stardust, Aladdin Sane and ""The Thin Whte Duke""?" A: David Bowie
Q: "What region covers most of the ""toe"" of ""the boot of Italy""?" A: Calabria
Q: Bigfoot, a supposedly large, hairy, bipedal humanoid which lives in forests in the Northwest of North America, is also known as what? A: Sasquatch
Q: Gordon Bennett, a leading figure on the world stage in the 19th century, made his substantial fortune in what field? A: Journalism
Q: What landlocked, mountainous, Central Asian country is bordered by Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and the People's Republic of China? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: "In a 1980 episode of the TV series ""Dallas"", what character was Sue Ellen's scheming sister, who shot J.R. after having an affair with him?" A: Kristin Shepard
Q: The 50.5 km Channel Tunnel, built under the English Channel or, in France, La Manche, to link the UK and France with road and rail access was finally opened in 1994. When was the first official Anglo-French protocol established to create the railway aspect of the link? A: 1876
Q: What term is used almost exclusively to describe a self-contained piece for one voice usually with orchestral accompaniment, commonly in opera, although they also form movements of oratorios and cantatas? A: Aria
Q: What is the common name of the chemical NH3, which is found in cleaning products? A: Ammonia
Q: What award is the equivalent of the Oscars for British industries involved in film, television, video games and forms of animation? A: BAFTAs
Q: Key Largo, Key West, Plantation Key and Big Pine Key are islands of the coast of are part of which US state? A: Florida
Q: "Which British actor made his film debut in Peter Ustinov's film adaptation of ""Billy Budd"" (1962) and went on to make a number of films, including ""The Collector"" (1965), ""Far From The Madding Crowd"" (1967), ""Poor Cow"" (1967), ""Wall Street"" (1987), ""The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert"" (1994), ""Bowfinger"" (1999), ""My Boss's Daughter"" (2003) and ""Elektra"" (2005)?" A: Terence Stamp
Q: Which bank, which had opened in 1762 (and was the oldest merchant bank in London) collapsed in 1995 after one of the bank's employees lost 827 million ($1.3 billion) speculating primarily on futures contracts? A: Barings Bank
Q: What was the name of the policy making body of the USSR before it broke up? A: Politburo
Q: What is Blackjack called in France? A: Vingt-et-un
Q: In the USA, what is the minimum age that someone can become a senator? A: 30
Q: The logo of which car manufacturer is based on an arrangement of three red diamonds? A: Mitsubishi
Q: """Summer of the Seventeenth Doll"", a 1955 play by Ray Lawler, is set in Carlton, a suburb of what city?" A: Melbourne, Australia
Q: Seoul is the capital of which country? A: South Korea
Q: Who beat Muhammad Ali in his last professional fight in 1982? A: Trevor Berbick
Q: What is a derogatory term for verse considered of little literary value? A: Doggerel
Q: """Black Cherry"" and ""Supernature"" are albums by which band?" A: Goldfrapp
Q: What fluid results from lachrymation? A: Tears
Q: When were 18 year olds allowed to vote in a General Election in the United Kingdom? A: 1970
Q: What was invented by George de Mestral in 1957? A: Velcro
Q: In which country is the city of Derry? A: Northern Ireland
Q: Who watched his daughter win her first professional boxing bout in October 1999? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: In 1794 in Pennsylvania, USA, more than 500 armed men attacked the fortified home of tax inspector General John Neville because of an excise tax on what product? A: Whiskey
Q: "Who wrote the poem called ""The New Colossus"" that is inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty?" A: Emma Lazarus
Q: In France, what is the SNCF? A: Railway network
Q: "The ""Curse of the Bambino"" was thought to have struck what baseball team until they won the World Series in 2004?" A: Boston Red Sox
Q: "For the type of bet called a ""Quinella"", how many horses are picked?" A: 2
Q: "Which cable suspension road bridge, known as ""Galloping Gertie"", was completely destroyed due to ""aeroelastic flutter"" on 7 November 1940?" A: Tacoma Narrows Bridge
Q: Joseph Pulitzer, founder of the Pulitzer Prizes, made his fortune from what? A: Newspapers
Q: The first father and son win at the Oscars was in 1948 when John Huston won the award for Directing and for Writing Adapted Screenplay and his father Walter Huston won the award for Best Supporting Actor. Which film had they worked on together to win these awards? A: The Treasure of the Sierra Madre
Q: What is the term used in wine making for the catalyst function that turns grape juice into an alcoholic beverage when yeast interacts with sugars in the juice to create ethanol and carbon dioxide? A: Fermentation
Q: Brazil is the world's biggest coffee producer. What is the second biggest? A: Vietnam
Q: "Who played Alan's young son, Jake, in the TV series ""Two and a Half Men""?" A: Angus T. Jones
Q: Comedian Ernie Wise was the subject of a publicity campaign launched in the UK on 1 January 1985 as being the first person in the UK to use what? A: Mobile phone
Q: In which city was Andre Agassi born? A: Las Vegas
Q: How many faces are there on a cube? A: 6
Q: EGM is the usual term for what? A: Extraordinary General Meeting
Q: What war was waged 1852-1856, one side being an alliance between the Ottoman Empire, UK, France, and Sardinia? A: The Crimean War
Q: In netball, the ball cannot be held by a player for more than how long at any time? A: 3 seconds
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name for the deepest part of hell, for those who had committed really bad crimes? A: Tartarus
Q: "Who married Taylor Hackford (the director of ""White Nights"", in which she appeared), her partner since 1986, on 31 December 1997?" A: Helen Mirren
Q: "The exterior of which real Boston pub was used in the TV programme ""Cheers"" in the 1980s?" A: Bull & Finch
Q: What sport is played by two teams of players in a space 60 feet by 40 feet? A: Basketball
Q: What device measures its the proper acceleration relative to freefall, and is increasingly used in portable electronic devices and video game controllers to detect the orientation of the device or provide game input? A: Accelerometer
Q: In Greek mythology, which horned and hoofed being was the god of shepherds, pastures, and fertility? A: Pan
Q: In 1635 Robert Hooke developed what? A: The law of elasticity
Q: David LaChapelle is a leading figure in what activity? A: Photography
Q: Mickey Mantle was a star of which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Traditionally, a magician pulls what out of a hat? A: Rabbit
Q: Fashion designer Ozwald Boateng specialises in what? A: Suits
Q: In English mythology, who were Galligantus and Bunderbore? A: Giants
Q: Which American singer, actress, songwriter and author who was born Cherilyn Sarkisian has won an Academy Award, a Grammy Award, an Emmy Award and three Golden Globe Awards? A: Cher
Q: What branch of anthropology compares and analyses the origins, distribution, technology, religion, language, and social structure of the ethnic, racial, and/or national divisions of humanity? A: Ethnology
Q: What island, 1 mile from Manhattan, which has been used by the army as an isolation centre for infectious diseases (such as typhoid and TB) and as a drug rehabiltation centre, is now deserted? A: North Brother Island
Q: Who designed both the obverse and reverse of the twenty-dollar gold coin, or double eagle, produced by the US Mint from 1907 to 1933? A: Augustus Saint-Gaudens
Q: Which 1942 film starring Tim Holt, Joseph Cotton, Ray Collins, Agnes Moorehead, Dolores Costello and Richard Bennett was adapted by Orson Welles from a novel by Booth Tarkington? A: The Magnificent Ambersons
Q: What is the Chinese name for the Yellow River? A: Huang Ho
Q: What is a Thompson seedless? A: Grape
Q: In central and northern Italy, the Guelphs, who supported the Pope, and Ghibellines, who supported the Holy Roman Emperor, became a metaphor for rivalry between individual families and cities. When was this? A: 12th and 13th centuries
Q: On the Jewish calendar, what is Rosh Hashanah? A: New Year
Q: Tamerlane was a 14th-century conqueror of Western, South and Central Asia, founder of which empire? A: The Timurid Empire
Q: "What is known most usually in the UK as ""The Sport of Kings""?" A: Horse racing
Q: According to Charlotte Bront, who married Jane Eyre? A: Mr Rochester
Q: What is Mexico's largest commercial port? A: Manzanillo
Q: "Sliced bread, advertised as ""the greatest forward step in the baking industry since bread was wrapped"", was first sold when?" A: 1928
Q: What does the parotid gland produce? A: Saliva
Q: If you went due east of Rio De Janeiro, what country would you get to first? A: Namibia
Q: What name is given to a person or animal with a form of hypopigmentary congenital disorder, characterized by a lack of melanin pigment in the eyes, skin and hair? A: Albino
Q: Who was the last monarch in the recent reunified kingdom of Italy? A: Umberto II
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""Pagliacci""?" A: Leoncavallo
Q: What is the name of the Hobbit who carries the ring to Mordor to be destroyed? A: Frodo
Q: The era of political liberalisation in Czechoslovakia in 1968 was called what? A: Prague Spring
Q: The Wash is an English estuary which opens to which body of water? A: North Sea
Q: What is the Hebrew word for the holocaust? A: Shoah
Q: According to Arthurian legend, who was the father of Galahad? A: Lancelot
Q: "In cricket, what term is used to describe the situation when a batsman is ""out"" for no score in both innings of the same two-innings match?" A: Pair
Q: The mandrill is the word's largest what? A: Monkey
Q: Who are Anne Valerie Hash, Stephanie Rolland, Alexis Mabille, Rebecca Taylor, Marc Jacobs and John Galliano? A: Fashion designers
Q: What name is given to a general practitioner's business? A: Practice
Q: "Who played Rick, the self-proclaimed anarchist who writes poetry and calls himself ""The People's Poet"" in the UK TV series ""The Young Ones""?" A: Rik Mayall
Q: The national team of the Iroquois League was admitted to the international federation for what sport in 1990 and competes internationally, the only native American/First Nations team to do so? A: Lacrosse
Q: Which ancient people with a conferacy of 5 cities (Ekron, Ashdod, Gath, Askalon and Gaza) came into conflict with Israel under Samson, Samuel and David? A: Philistines
Q: St James's Palace is in what street in London? A: Pall Mall
Q: Charles Lindbergh's first non-stop flight across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927 was between which two cities? A: New York and Paris, France
Q: Who is acknowledged as the founder of Singapore as a trading post and European settlement in 1819? A: Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles
Q: "Johnny Weissmuller, the star of 12 ""Tarzan"" films between 1932 and 1948, won 5 Olympic gold medals in the 1920s in what sport?" A: Swimming
Q: What was the first satellite put into orbit by the USA? A: Explorer
Q: Which BBC TV programme of 4 series featured Rowan Atkinson, Pamela Stephenson, Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones, with Chris Langham in the first series? A: Not the Nine O'Clock News
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1970s TV series ""McCloud"", about a cowboy policeman working in New York?" A: Dennis Weaver
Q: The French National Assembly is housed in which building? A: Palais Bourbon
Q: "In what sport does one ""play the ball"" by rolling it back to a dummy half?" A: Rugby league
Q: Quicksilver is the alternative name for what? A: Mercury
Q: What are carried on a hod? A: Bricks
Q: What name is given to English comedies written from 1660 to 1700 which signalled the rebirth of English drama after public stage performances had been banned for 18 years? A: Restoration comedy
Q: Who defected from Russia to the West at a Paris airport on 17 June 1961? A: Rudolph Nureyev
Q: The rumba was originally danced where? A: Cuba
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 3 points? A: Green
Q: Who would use an inkblot or Rorschach Test? A: Psychologist
Q: What is the monetary unit of Laos? A: Kip
Q: What is a nickname for Inverness? A: The Capital of the Highlands
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 1 point? A: Red
Q: Graphic representation of a formula containing two variables one of which is the reciprocal of the other, is a what? A: Hyperbola
Q: Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821) installed as First Consul in France by 1800 and crowned Emperor of France 1804, was born where? A: Ajaccio, Corsica
Q: According to the Bible (and Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice), who had a coat with many colours? A: Joseph
Q: How many pockets does the modern pocket billiards table have? A: 6
Q: "Who played Mr Big in the TV series ""Sex and the City"" which first ran from 1998 to 2004, and the films ""Sex and the City"" (2008) and ""Sex and the City 2"" (2010)?" A: Chris Noth
Q: Where was the record for the longest professional match broken in 2010 when John Isner & Nicolas Mahut took 11 hours and 5 minutes over a three day period? A: Wimbledon
Q: The newest distinct territory in Canada, Nunavut, is contiguous or very nearly with how many other Canadian provinces or territories? A: 4
Q: "In the film ""Batman Forever"", released in 1995, who played the villain called ""Two Face""?" A: Tommy Lee Jones
Q: What was the first name of the political cartoonist known as Hogarth? A: William
Q: "What boxer was known as ""The Brown Bomber""?" A: Joe Louis
Q: "Who published their autobiography ""Life is a Rollercoaster"" in 2000?" A: Ronan Keating
Q: The Michael Phelps Foundation Golf Classic is an annual fundraiser for what? A: Growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles
Q: Which country, after the collapse of its government-owned bank and via a referendum, decided in March 2010 not to pay Great Britain and the Netherlands the 3.9 billion that it owed them? A: Iceland
Q: "What film was based on the book ""Q and A"" by Vikas Swarup?" A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Who has played, on film, John Dillinger, Sweeney Todd, J M Barrie, Jack Kerouac and Ed Wood? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Where is the Satsuma peninsula? A: Japan
Q: "Who is most likely to perform a ""pas de deux""?" A: Ballet dancer
Q: Which British golfer won the US Masters in 1989, 1990 & 1996? A: Nick Faldo
Q: On the western Christian calendar, what date is Twelfth Day? A: 6 January
Q: What sort of creature is a coypu? A: Rodent
Q: Where was the most recent volcanic eruption in the contiguous states of the USA? A: Washington
Q: What is the Roman military formation called the Testudo named after? A: Tortoise
Q: Who created the fictional detective Inspector Morse? A: Colin Dexter
Q: What is the name of the vertical groove above the upper lip that connects the top lip to the bottom of the nose? A: Philtrum
Q: The Harelle, a revolt that occurred in the French city of Rouen in 1382 followed by the Maillotins Revolt a few days later in Paris, and subsequently in Amiens, Dieppe, Falaise, Caen, Orleans, and Rheims during the Hundred Years War, was about what? A: Taxation
Q: Built in 1869, what type of ship is the Cutty Sark, which was put on public display in 1954 and is preserved in dry dock in Greenwich, London, UK? A: Clipper
Q: "In Ireland, what are ""Macgillycuddy's Reeks""?" A: Mountains
Q: In soccer, what coloured card is used to order a player off the field? A: Red
Q: Which car maker has a trident as its symbol? A: Maserati
Q: A zamboni is used to prepare the playing surface for which sport? A: Ice hockey
Q: What country is bordered by Macedonia, Greece, Montenegro and Kosovo? A: Albania
Q: Silkworms feed mainly on the leaves of what tree? A: Mulberry
Q: According to legend, what is needed to kill a werewolf? A: Silver bullet
Q: What country, part of the Ottoman Empire for 500 years as the provinces of Shkodra, Manastir and Yanya, proclaimed its independence on 28 November 1912, with Ismail Qemali as its first Prime Minister? A: Albania
Q: The Battle of Agincourt in 1415 was fought between which two countries? A: England and France
Q: "Which 19th century Austrian composer is famous for his waltzes such as ""The Blue Danube"" and ""Tales of the Vienna Woods"", and the operetta ""Die Fledermaus""?" A: Johann Strauss
Q: Which Canadian won the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest representing Switzerland? A: Celine Dion
Q: In what sport does the equipment include a spider, a hook rest and a half butt? A: Snooker
Q: What alloy is made of 12% tin and 88% copper? A: Bronze
Q: Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 in F major (Op. 68) is known as what? A: The Pastoral Symphony
Q: Which state in the USA is equidistant from the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, containing both the geographic centre of the 48 contiguous USA states and the geodetic centre of North America? A: Kansas
Q: What links a type of footwear, the home of NATO, the best known military exploit of an early British Prime Minister, and the final days of freedom for a short Corsican commander? A: Brussels
Q: A game popular in a number of countries and known variously as Belote, Boeuf, Vida, and other names is played with what? A: Cards
Q: Aten, Ra, Amun and Ptah are what? A: Egyptian gods
Q: Where was the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales and Camilla Parker Bowles, held? A: Windsor Guildhall
Q: Who identified and named alpha, beta and gamma radiation? A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: A style of intimate singing, developed and made popular in the first half of the 20th century by, among others, Bing Crosby, is called...? A: Crooning
Q: In which century did Henry VIII die? A: 16th
Q: What is the capital of San Marino? A: The City of San Marino
Q: Which painter, who was born in Paris, France in 1848 and died in 1903 at Atuona, Hiva Oa, Marquesas Islands, French Polynesia, had lived at various times in Lima (Peru), Orlans (France), Copenhagen (Denmark), Panama, Saint Pierre (Martinique), Pont-Aven (France), Arles (France), Mataiea Village (Tahiti), Punaauia (Tahiti)? A: Paul Gauguin
Q: In August 2005 the robotic rover Spirit explored the surface of what? A: Mars
Q: What is the name of the government-owned corporation that provides the intercity passenger train service in the USA? A: Amtrak
Q: Which bank robber, whose exploits were sensationalized across the USA, was shot dead by police in an ambush outside the Biograph Theater in Chicago in 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: If you were at a hoedown what would you do? A: Dance
Q: By what name was Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar better known? A: El Cid
Q: "According to Lewis Carroll in his novel ""Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There"" (1872), what was used to kill the Jabberwock?" A: A vorpal sword
Q: When the Olympics was resurrected in modern times, with a Summer Olympics in 1896, where were the games held? A: Athens, Greece
Q: What species of spiny lobster is probably the longest decapod crustacean in the world, growing to lengths of up to 60 centimetres (24 in)? A: Packhorse crayfish
Q: "In what country was the ""Red Cross"" founded?" A: Switzerland
Q: Which city, on the River Arno, is the capital of the region of Tuscany? A: Florence
Q: What is a common chronic neurological disorder characterised by recurrent unprovoked seizures, which are transient signs and/or symptoms of abnormal, excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain? A: Epilepsy
Q: What is the title of ex-Australian Prime Minister John Howard's autobiography, published in October 2010? A: Lazarus Rising
Q: Manchuria is the historical name given to a vast geographic region that falls mostly within what country? A: People's Republic of China
Q: """Now is the winter of our discontent"" is a line from which play?" A: Richard III
Q: What did Basutoland change its name to in 1966? A: Lesotho
Q: "In 1453, the Ottomans used a cannon called ""the Great Turkish Bombard"", which required an operating crew of 200 men and 70 oxen, and 10,000 men to transport it, during their siege of which city?" A: Constantinople
Q: "Who dies at the end of Shakespeare's tragedy ""Troilus and Cressida""?" A: Hector
Q: What is the only geometric shape that has infinite lines of symmetry? A: Circle
Q: At the 2010 Grammy Awards, who set a new record for the most wins by a female artist in one night, winning six? A: Beyonc
Q: What is a localised, blood-filled dilation of a blood vessel caused by disease or weakening of the vessel wall, which most commonly occurs in arteries at the base of the brain and in the aorta? A: Aneurism
Q: Who created the character of James Bond? A: Ian Fleming
Q: "In Rudyard Kipling's ""The Jungle Book"", what animal was Kaa?" A: Snake
Q: In what year did Sweden change its laws to allow a woman to inherit the throne, USSR stage its first rock festival, the border officially re-open between Spain and Gibraltar, Iceland democratically elect its first woman president, and the 10.14 mile (16.32km) long St Gotthard Road Tunnel open in Switzerland? A: 1980
Q: Held annually since 1923 which is the oldest active endurance race for sports cars? A: 24 Hours of Le Mans
Q: What are the Russian steppes? A: Treeless plains
Q: Which is the youngest of these New Zealand actresses ? A: Keisha Castle-Hughes
Q: Which play by Arthur Miller used events from early US history to mirror Senator McCarthy's communist witch hunts in the 1950's? A: The Crucible
Q: What ocean borders the US state of California? A: Pacific
Q: What relation was Mary I of England to Elizabeth I? A: Half sister
Q: Speculation about the possibility of a southern land mass has been around for at least 2,000 years. When was the first recorded sighting of the Antarctic continent? A: 1820
Q: "What actor had the title role in the film ""The 40-Year-Old Virgin""?" A: Steve Carell
Q: "The parable of ""The Good Samaritan"" is in which Christian gospel?" A: Luke
Q: What was the first robotic probe to land on the Moon and return a sample to Earth? A: Luna 16
Q: "Who ""is watching you"" in George Orwell's book ""Nineteen Eighty-Four""?" A: Big Brother
Q: "Which boxer was known as the ""Manassa Mauler""?" A: Jack Dempsey
Q: In which city is the Imperial Spanish Riding School? A: Vienna
Q: What is the name of a Japanese dish consisting of noodles and broth? A: Ramen
Q: What is the best known work by German composer Carl Orff? A: Carmina Burana
Q: How many countries surround the Gulf of Mexico? A: 3
Q: What is the base for the common logarithm? A: 10
Q: What stands at the west end of the Champs lyses? A: Arc de Triomphe
Q: What name was commonly used for the struggle that emerged after World War II between capitalism and communism that centred around the USSR & the USA and their partners, that lasted from about 1947 to 1991? A: The Cold War
Q: The New Stone Age was in what period? A: Neolithic
Q: Lacrosse, thought to have been played by at least 1100 AD and originally a ceremonial ritual with up to 1,000 people, currently (except in Box lacrosse) involves how many players? A: 20
Q: Alecia Beth Moore is better known by what stage name? A: Pink
Q: "What was the name of his backing band for Bill Haley on the record ""Rock Around the Clock"" that was released in 1954?" A: The Comets
Q: Which Apollo mission was the first to land on the moon? A: 11
Q: Which European country was twice, in 1892 and again in 1902, declared bankrupt? A: Portugal
Q: Where would one find a kibbutz? A: Israel
Q: The 2006 Open Golf Championship was played on which English course after a gap of almost 40 years? A: Hoylake
Q: Designer Karl Lagerfeld is famous for carrying what as a fashion accessory? A: Fan
Q: Who became president of the Islamic Repubic of Iran in August 2005? A: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Q: During which war were occupying Ottoman forces forced to withdraw from the town of Aqaba after a raid led by T. E. Lawrence and the Arab forces of Sharif Hussein? A: World War I
Q: What song was written by Bob Geldof in the aftermath of Brenda Ann Spencer's attempted massacre at an elementary school across the street from her house in San Diego, California, in 1979? A: I Don't Like Mondays
Q: Stocking stitch is used in what kind of activity? A: Knitting
Q: "Jane Horrocks plays which role in the TV series ""Absolutely Fabulous""?" A: Bubble
Q: What is another name for oedema? A: Dropsy
Q: Who escaped to the Isle of Skye, assisted by Flora MacDonald? A: Bonnie Prince Charlie
Q: Wakame and Kombu are what type of dishes? A: Seaweed
Q: London's Hatton Garden is the centre of trade in what? A: Jewellery
Q: Where do arboreal animals live? A: In trees
Q: In 1991, Warner Bros was picketed by a major national organisation over the use of which cartoon character? A: Porky Pig
Q: In 1848, the USA offered Spain $100 million, equivalent to around $2.45 billion in present day terms, for the purchase of which area of land? A: Cuba
Q: """Lusail"" is a new city in which country?" A: Qatar
Q: What 1983 Scottish film, starring Peter Riegert, Denis Lawson, Peter Capaldi and Burt Lancaster, was directed by Bill Forsyth with music by Mark Knopfler? A: Local Hero
Q: What is traditionally added to sulphur and saltpetre to make gunpowder? A: Charcoal
Q: In which country was mountaineer and explorer Edmund Hillary born? A: New Zealand
Q: "To whom does the nickname ""Dubya"" refer?" A: George W. Bush
Q: What name was given to a series of violent events on 21 May 1979 in San Francisco, USA, sparked by the lenient sentencing (for voluntary manslaughter, the lightest possible) of Dan White for the assassinations of Mayor George Moscone and City Supervisor Harvey Milk, which led to changes in the city's official attitude to gays? A: White Night riots
Q: "A group of what is usually called a ""parliament""?" A: Owls
Q: In November 2010, China announced that it would have its first what in 2011? A: Aircraft carrier
Q: The film The Philadelphia Story was made into which musical? A: High Society
Q: From 2010 to 2012 a series of major earthquakes devastated areas in the South Island of which country? A: New Zealand
