Q: Who plays the Wolf Man in the 1941 horror film ‘The Wolf Man’? A: Lon Chaney Jr
Q: Buffalo, Bermuda, Fescue and Carpet are all types of what? A: Grass
Q: Inactive volcano Mount Sabalan is in which country? A: Iran
Q: Syngenesophobia is the irrational fear of who? A: Relatives
Q: What is the US state capital of Oregon? A: Salem
Q: The Duke de Richelieu’s French chef invented which sauce in 1756? A: Mayonnaise
Q: What is the name of the proof reading symbol which indicates where something is to be inserted in a line of printed or written text? A: Caret
Q: Ronald Reagan was governor of which US state? A: California
Q: In November 1935, Parker Brothers released which board game in the US? A: Monopoly
Q: Which scientist was granted 1093 US patents for his inventions? A: Thomas Edison
Q: Which band released a 1977 album entitled ‘Aja’? A: Steely Dan
Q: Who invented the Miners Safety Lamp in 1815? A: Humphrey Davy
Q: What is the highest range of the female singing voice? A: Soprano
Q: Dublin, in Ireland, lies on which river? A: River Liffey
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘The Death Card’? A: Ace of Spades
Q: Mirin is a type of wine used for flavouring the cuisine of which country? A: Japan
Q: Emerald and aquamarine are varieties of which gemstone? A: Beryl
Q: What is a district called which is under the pastoral care of a bishop in the Christian church? A: Diocese
Q: Which World War ll criminal died of suicide by asphyxiation in Spandau Prison in 1987? A: Rudolph Hess
Q: Which US state was considered the first to join the Union? A: Delaware
Q: Who is the narrator at the beginning and end of each episode of the children’s tv programme ‘Roary the Racing Car’? A: Stirling Moss
Q: Who wrote the books ‘The Good Companions’ and ‘An Inspector Calls’? A: J.B. Priestly
Q: Who played the title role in the 1977 film ‘Annie Hall’? A: Diane Keaton
Q: Navigator Fred Noonan disappeared with who, after taking off in their plane from New Guinea? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: In the UK, in which year did the Life Peerage Act entitled women to sit in the House of Lords for the first time? A: 1958
Q: Which actor plays a chain-smoking, womanising angel in the 1996 film ‘Michael’? A: John Travolta
Q: The Rimutaka Railway Tunnel is in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: In the UK, who was the Queen’s press secretary from 1978 to 1987? A: Michael Shea
Q: US comedian and actor Nathan Birnbaum, born in 1898, was better known by what name? A: George Burns
Q: On 26th September 1953, the rationing of what ended in the UK? A: Sugar
Q: What type of flower is a cattleya? A: Orchid
Q: Which former England rugby union player was nicknamed ‘Squeaky’? A: Rob Andrew
Q: Used in cooking, Royal, Fondant, Buttercream and Foam are all types of what? A: Icing
Q: A carillon is a set of at least 23 what, often located in a tower, each producing a musical note and usually played from a keyboard? A: Bells
Q: In 1879, the Zulu War ended after which battle? A: The Battle of Rorke’s Drift
Q: What is the name of the two-handled, narrow-necked jar, used by ancient Greeks and Romans for holding oil or wine? A: Amphora
Q: Which British Prime Minister introduced income tax, to help offset a reduction in revenue caused by a decline in trade? A: William Pitt the Younger
Q: The Krimml Falls are in which European country? A: Austria
Q: Borachio is a villain in which Shakespeare play? A: Much Ado About Nothing
Q: American Larry Adler was known for playing which musical instrument? A: Harmonica
Q: Which English-born businessman and politician was Rhodesia named after? A: Cecil Rhodes
Q: Pung and Chow are terms used in which game? A: Mah jong
Q: In mythology, which Roman goddess often assumed the form of a cat in order to mate with her brother Lucifer? A: Diana
Q: Budo is a Japanese term that describes what? A: Martial arts
Q: The Pyramids of the Sun and the Moon are popular tourist attractions in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Which US actor appears in the video for Travis’s ‘Closer’? A: Ben Stiller
Q: St Mawes and Pendennis Castles in Cornwall were built by which English monarch to defend the coast against a French invasion? A: Henry VIII
Q: The islands of La Gomera and Tabarca belong to which European country? A: Spain
Q: Which American dancer died in 1927 when the scarf she was wearing caught in the wheel of her car breaking her neck? A: Isadora Duncan
Q: How many letters are in the Welsh alphabet? A: 28
Q: Pisiform and hamate are bones in which part of the human body? A: Wrist
Q: In which French cathedral were the kings of France crowned until 1825? A: Notre Dame de Reims
Q: Which Danish island was blown up by the British in 1947? A: Heligoland
Q: The Rosetta stone was used to decipher the hieroglyphics in which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which European country is often referred to as ‘The Hexagon’,  because of its geometric shape? A: France
Q: Italian companies Ferretti and Azimut manufacture which luxury items? A: Yachts
Q: Which English chemist and physicist invented the rubber balloon in 1824, to use in his experiments? A: Michael Faraday
Q: ‘Roligans’ are well-mannered football fans from which European country? A: Denmark
Q: The seven psalms – 6, 32, 38, 51, 102, 130 and 143 are known collectively as what? A: Penitential Psalms
Q: The former penal colony Devil’s Island lies in which ocean? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: From which country does the Lambada dance originate? A: Brazil
Q: Olympus Mons is the highest mountain on which planet in our solar system? A: Mars
Q: The Saporta Cup was played for in which sport? A: Basketball
Q: Renaissance astronomer Nicolas Copernicus was born in which modern day European country? A: Poland
Q: In the game of golf, a Bo Derek is a score of what at any hole? A: Ten
Q: Which three digits can be found in the bushes at the base of the Lincoln Memorial on a US $5 (Five dollar) bill? A: 172
Q: In the film ‘Ben Hur’, what was the title character’s first name? A: Judah
Q: In the nursery rhyme ‘The House That Jack Built’, what did the rat eat? A: The malt
Q: Sabena Airlines was the national airline of which European country 1923 – 2001? A: Belguim
Q: On a clothes label, what does a square with a circle inside it indicate? A: Tumble Dry
Q: In the American Wild West, what was the name of the gang, members of which included Butch Cassidy and kid Curry? A: The Hole in the Wall Gang
Q: What is the name of the key which is used for tightening and loosening the neck around a drill bit? A: Chuck Key
Q: In World War ll, what type of planes were used by the Dambusters? A: Lancasters
Q: Jalousie, Bay and Palladian are all types of what? A: Windows
Q: ‘Hector the Cat’ is a fictional mascot created for teaching children what in Australia? A: Road Safety
Q: The first stock market in which city was established in 1792 with 24 stock brokers meeting at the Tontine Coffee House? A: New York
Q: How many eyelids do camels have on each eye? A: Three
Q: Which British pre-decimal coin was worth two shillings? A: Florin
Q: The New York city of Yonkers is on which river? A: Hudson River
Q: In which sport might a ‘Long Jenny’ be played? A: Billiards
Q: What is the collective term for a group of unicorns? A: Blessing
Q: Which of Disney’s Seven Dwarfs wears glasses? A: Doc
Q: Which country is known as the George Cross Island? A: Malta
Q: Two members of which group were the only people to perform on both Band Aid charity singles? A: Bananarama
Q: What type of leaf did US baseball player Babe Ruth wear under his cap to keep him cool? A: Cabbage leaf
Q: In Edward Lear’s ‘The Owl and the Pussycat’, how much did they pay the pig for the ring in his nose to use as a wedding ring? A: One shilling
Q: In UK politics, what position did Labour politician Manny Shinwell hold from 1950-51? A: Minister of Defence
Q: Which 19th Century English poet wrote ‘Ode to  a Grecian Urn’? A: John Keats
Q: In Greek mythology,what was left in Pandora’s Box after the rest of the contents had been released? A: Hope
Q: Lethologica is the temporary forgetfulness of what? A: Words
Q: In the folklore of which country does a goat named Ukko help Santa Claus? A: Finland
Q: The word ‘durst’ is the past tense of which English word? A: Dare
Q: The English city of Lincoln lies on which river? A: River Witham
Q: In English football, from which team did Aston Villa buy footballer Dion Dublin in 1998? A: Coventry City
Q: Great Aunt Ada Doom is a character in which novel by Stella Gibbons? A: Cold Comfort Farm
Q: In Scotland, what are breeks? A: Trousers
Q: The Order of the Falcon, established in 1921, is a national order, or badge, of which country? A: Iceland
Q: In which English town is the University of Teesside? A: Middlesbrough
Q: Which was the first country to stage football’s European Championship final twice? A: Italy
Q: What items were issued to British pilots in World War ll, which could be soaked in water and unfold to reveal a map for escape if the pilot was captured? A: Playing cards
Q: In which year was the Ford Anglia car first produced in the UK? A: 1940
Q: Dame Mary Lesley Perkins is a co-founder of which chain of UK opticians? A: Specsavers
Q: Former Wimbledon tennis player John McEnroe was born in which country? A: Germany
Q: The term ‘Cathay’ refers to which modern day country? A: China
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Across the River and Into the Trees’? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: ‘Good ‘Ol Boys’ by Waylon Jennings was the theme tune to which US tv series? A: The Dukes of Hazzard
Q: St Gallen Airport is in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: In ancient Rome, what was a scutum? A: A shield
Q: In medicine, a penectomy is the removal of what? A: Penis
Q: Which scientist was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952 by Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion? A: Albert Einstein
Q: In the UK, what was the first Welsh football team to play in the Premier League? A: Swansea City
Q: Which part of Peter Pan was kept in a drawer in the Darling household? A: His shadow
Q: Who was the first US President to speak in Westminster Hall in London? A: Barack Obama
Q: How many tiles are at there in a Double-12 set of dominoes? A: 91
Q: Which English comedian’s real name is Royston Vasey? A: Roy ‘Chubby’ Brown
Q: Composer Jean Sibelius was born in which country? A: Finland
Q: In which year was the Battle of Britain? A: 1940
Q: Which country’s national football team was knocked out of the 1998 FIFA World Cup despite scoring six goals in their last match? A: Spain
Q: Epping Forest is in which English county? A: Essex
Q: In medicine, exsanguination is commonly known as what? A: Bleeding to death
Q: What is Beauty’s name in the Disney film ‘Beauty and the Beast’? A: Belle
Q: Moorfield’s Hospital in London specialises in the treatment of which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Which English singer entertained the crowds on Centre Court at Wimbledon in 1996 when rain stopped play ? A: Cliff Richard
Q: What number shirt did footballer Bobby Moore wear when he played for West Ham? A: 6
Q: What was the name of the President of Granada who was executed during the 1983 coup? A: Maurice Bishop
Q: The Ebro River is in which country? A: Spain
Q: In which English city is the Cartwright Hall Art Gallery? A: Bradford
Q: A luce is the name for which fully grown fish? A: Pike
Q: Dakahlia, Ghabia and Helwan are governorates of which country? A: Egypt
Q: Former French President Charles de Gaulle said ‘How can you govern a country which has 246 varieties of ‘what’? A: Cheese
Q: Pattie Boyd, George Harrison’s first wife, was cast as a schoolgirl fan in which Beatles film? A: ‘A Hard Day’s Night’
Q: July 1938 saw the first ascent of the North Face of which Alpine mountain? A: The Eiger
Q: The famous ‘Seven Ages of Man’ speech is delivered in which Shakespeare play? A: As You Like It
Q: What was known as the ‘National Razor’ during the French Revolution? A: The Guillotine
Q: What was the name of  the consort of Britain’s Queen Victoria? A: Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Q: Lechon is a dish made with which meat? A: Pork
Q: The charreada, or charreria, rodeo originated in which country? A: Mexico
Q: The city of Belgrade lies at the confluence of the River Sava and which other river? A: Danube
Q: In which country was athlete Eric Liddell born? A: China
Q: Thon Buri was the capital of which Asian country during the 18th Century? A: Thailand
Q: Japanese baseball player, Ichiro Suzuki, joined which US baseball team in 2001? A: Seattle Mariners
Q: Which mountain range separates Spain and France? A: The Pyrenees
Q: How many counters, or pieces, does each player start with in a game of backgammon? A: 15
Q: Which Welsh singer was born Gaynor Hopkins? A: Bonnie Tyler
Q: Which country has the internet domain .at? A: Austria
Q: Which Hollywood actor died in 1955 when his car collided with another car near Cholane, California? A: James Dean
Q: Who did the former British king, Edward Vlll marry in June 1937? A: Wallis Simpson
Q: In human anatomy, an ossicle is a very small what? A: Bone
Q: Which ex-Playboy Bunny sang in a band called ‘Wind in the Willows’ before becoming the singer in one of the most famous bands of the 1970’s and 80’s? A: Debbie Harry
Q: Lee Brilleaux was the vocalist in which 1970’s band? A: Dr. Feelgood
Q: The Curtis Cup is a challenge trophy contested by women in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Australia at the beginning of World War ll? A: Robert Menzies
Q: LADE (Lineas Aereas del Estado) is the national airline of which country? A: Argentina
Q: Strangers Gate is an entrance to which famous park? A: Central Park, New York
Q: ANZAC Day, Australia’s annual holiday to remember its war dead, is held during which month of the year? A: April
Q: In the book ‘The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe’ by C.S. Lewis, what type of creature is Maugrim? A: Wolf
Q: ‘The Virgin on the Rocks’ is the work of which artist? A: Leonardo Da Vinci
Q: Sir Robert Chiltern, Viscount Goring and Mrs Marchmont are characters in which Oscar Wilde play? A: The Ideal Husband
Q: Who was murdered with an ice pick in 1940 by Ramon Mercader? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: Who plays psychiatrist Dr Buddy Rydell in the 2003 film ‘Anger Management’? A: Jack Nicholson
Q: What is the study of lakes and other bodies of freshwater? A: Limnology
Q: Which US President had the nickname ‘Mr Nice Guy’, because of his clean-cut image? A: Gerald Ford
Q: What is the capital of the Yukon Territory in Canada? A: Whitehorse
Q: The European port of Split lies in which body of water? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: In which religion do people worship communally in a Fire Temple? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: What is the young of a bobcat called? A: Kitten
Q: Which English poet was buried upright in London’s Westminster Abbey in 1637? A: Ben Johnson
Q: Which fashion designer re-designed the UK hospital gown in 2010? A: Ben de Lisi
Q: In Afrikaans, which city is called Kapstad? A: Cape Town
Q: In the human body, which vitamin helps the blood to clot? A: Vitamin K
Q: The Caloris Basin, a large impact crater, is on which planet in our solar system? A: Mercury
Q: Elvis Presley played the role of Clint Reno in which 1956 film? A: Love Me Tender
Q: In the NATO phonetic alphabet, the letter ‘Z’ is represented by which word? A: Zulu
Q: ‘Connubial’ relates to which type of relationship? A: Marriage
Q: How many stars are on the national flag of Syria? A: Two
Q: Indian politician Sonia Gandhi was born in which country in 1946? A: Italy
Q: In which year was the Factory Act passed in Britain, to improve conditions for children working in factories? A: 1833
Q: In 1997, what was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell? A: Dolly the sheep
Q: What is the highest range of the male singing voice? A: Countertenor
Q: Who was the mother of King James l of England? A: Mary Queen of Scots
Q: Which Irish musician released a 1988 album entitled ‘Watermark’? A: Enya
Q: What is the name of the spiked metal plate fixed to a boot for climbing on ice or rock? A: Crampon
Q: A pneumonectomy is the removal or part-removal of which part of the human body? A: Lung
Q: Which US President ordered the development of the hydrogen bomb, in response to Russia (USSR) detonating its first atomic bomb? A: Harry S. Truman
Q: Which British designer designed the iPod? A: Jonathan Ive
Q: Saint Apollinia is the patron saint of which medical profession? A: Dentists
Q: The ‘Harvester Judgement’ was a benchmark legal case for ensuring workers in which country were paid a fair basic wage? A: Australia
Q: ‘The past is a foreign country, they do things differently there’, are the opening words to which novel? A: ‘The Go Between’
Q: Which UK children’s tv show, launched in 1968, had a mascot called Murgatroyd? A: Magpie
Q: The Antionette Perry Awards for Excellence are better known by what name? A: Tony Awards
Q: According to the Bible, how many pieces of silver did each of the Philistines offer Delilah to find out where Samson’s strength lay? A: 1100
Q: In which board game do players use a ‘doubling cube’, which has the numbers 2,4,8,16,32,64 on it? A: Backgammon
Q: In which mountain range is the 2000 film ‘Vertical Limit’ set? A: Himalayas
Q: In paleontology, a coprolite is fossilised what? A: Animal dung
Q: In 2003, which UK retailer won a legal battle to advertise for employees in jobcentres? A: Ann Summers
Q: Haddonfield, Illinois is the setting for which 1978 horror film? A: Halloween
Q: The Mackinac Bridge connects the Upper and Lower peninsulas of which US state? A: Michigan
Q: What was the title of the 1967 black comedy war film starring Michael Crawford and John Lennon? A: How I Won the War
Q: The Seychelle Islands lie in which body of water? A: Indian Ocean
Q: Which jazz pianist, bandleader and composer was backed by the Red Hot Peppers? A: Jelly Roll Morton
Q: Which British luxury liner made her maiden voyage from Southampton in May 1936? A: RMS Queen Mary
Q: In space, the ‘Big Bang Machine’ is another name for what? A: The Large Hadron Collider
Q: In Greek mythology, who tore his eyes out when he discovered that he had married his mother? A: Oedipus
Q: In which part of the human body is the metacarpus? A: Hand
Q: Adele Casagrande founded which Italian fashion house in 1925 in Rome? A: Fendi
Q: Who played Will Scarlet in the 1980’s UK tv series ‘Robin of Sherwood’? A: Ray Winstone
Q: In the UK, which item of furniture in the House of Commons at Westminster was originally designed by Augustus Welby Pugin in the 19th Century? A: Speaker’s Chair
Q: What is the name of a brooch or ring with a portrait profile carved in relief? A: Cameo
Q: The epitaph of which Hollywood actress is ‘She did it the hard way’? A: Bette Davis
Q: In the game of scrabble, how many points is the ‘F’ tile worth? A: Four
Q: Which US actress was born Edna Gillooly in 1932? A: Ellen Burstyn
Q: Who played lawyer Andrew Beckett in the 1993 film ‘Philadelphia’? A: Tom Hanks
Q: Chionophobia is an irrational fear of which type of weather condition? A: Snow
Q: What was the name of the first US steam locomotive, built in 1830, to be operated on a common-carrier railroad? A: Tom Thumb
Q: Bukit Timah is the highest point in which Republic of Southeast Asia? A: Singapore
Q: Which country defeated England 1-0 on 29th June in the 1950 FIFA World Cup ? A: USA
Q: ‘Marianne’ is a national emblem of which European country? A: France
Q: In the novel ‘The Lord of the Rings’, Barliman Butterbur is the proprietor of which inn? A: The Prancing Pony
Q: In May 1940, who became British Prime Minister after the resignation of Neville Chamberlain? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Which US poet wrote the 1864 poem ‘Christmas Day’, after he had received news that his son had been seriously injured fighting in the American Civil War? A: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Q: What type of foodstuff is halloumi? A: Cheese
Q: Lord Gnome is purported to be the proprietor of which fortnightly British publication? A: Private Eye
Q: Yorick’s skull appears in which play by William Shakespeare? A: Hamlet
Q: In February 1906, which type of British battleship was launched for the first time? A: Dreadnought
Q: What was the name of the daughter of the Native American chief of the Powhatan Confederacy who married English settler John Rolfe in 1613? A: Pocahontas
Q: What is the name of the private yacht that golfer Tiger Woods gave as a wedding gift to his ex-wife Elin? A: Privacy
Q: Inauguration Day in the US is held during which month of the year? A: January
Q: In Australia, on which side of the road do motorists drive? A: Left
Q: Who played barmaid Michelle Connor in the UK tv soap ‘Coronation Street’? A: Kym Marsh
Q: The novel ‘The Hound of the Baskervilles’, by Arthur Conan Doyle, is set on which English moor? A: Dartmoor
Q: Which electronics company has the motto ‘make.believe’? A: Sony
Q: In Norse mythology, what type of creature did the dwarf king’s son Fafnir become? A: Dragon
Q: In which US state is Cape Cod? A: Massachusetts
Q: Which cabinet position did British MP Andrew Bonar Law hold between 1916 and 1919? A: Chancellor of the Exchequer
Q: What is the acidic juice called of crab apples or other sour fruit, such as grapes? A: Verjuice
Q: Which forest features in the Shakespeare play ‘As You Like It’? A: Forest of Arden
Q: Brooklyn, Graveyard and Turkey are terms used in which sport? A: Ten pin bowling
Q: In Russia, what is a kazachok? A: Folk dance
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘ab initio’ translate to in English? A: From the beginning
Q: The former gold-mining region of Cariboo is in which country? A: Canada
Q: Which is the only planet in our solar system to rotate clockwise? A: Venus
Q: Who won the 2011 Spanish Formula One Grand Prix? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: A millipede has how many legs on each segment of its body? A: Four
Q: Julia and Alfred were the names of parents of which member of British pop band The Beatles? A: John Lennon
Q: In humans, madarosis is the loss of what? A: Eyelashes
Q: Sabadell Airport is in which European country? A: Spain
Q: In which country is the Aladag mountain range? A: Turkey
Q: Which land animal is known as an urchin? A: Hedgehog
Q: Under what names were Janet and John books sold in the US? A: Alice and Jerry
Q: Which is the only letter of the alphabet that does not appear in the name of any of the states of America? A: Q
Q: According to the Bible, Jesus was baptised in which river? A: River Jordan
Q: In the the tv cartoon series ‘The Simpsons’ what is Grandpa Simpson’s first name? A: Abraham
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the giant watchman with 100 eyes, also adopted as the name of a UK retail chain? A: Argos
Q: Which UK tv series set in a hospital, which first aired in 1979, had the theme tune ‘H.A.P.P.Y’? A: Only When I Laugh
Q: Mizaru, Mikazaru and Iwazaru are the names of the three what? A: Wise Monkeys
Q: ‘The Heater from Van Meter’ was the nickname of which American Major League Baseball pitcher? A: Bob Feller
Q: In December 2007, The Empire State Building in New York was illuminated yellow to promote which film? A: ‘The Simpsons Movie’
Q: Which is the only bird that can swim but can’t fly? A: Penguin
Q: Which famous singer died of a heart attack on a Spanish golf course in October 1977? A: Bing Crosby
Q: According to the bible, what was the name of the murderer who was released by Pontius Pilate in preference to Jesus? A: Barabbas
Q: What is the name of the last Beatles album to be recorded before the band split up? A: Abbey Road
Q: What is the name of a community of ants? A: Colony
Q: What disability did the wife and mother of inventor Alexander Graham Bell both suffer? A: Deafness
Q: The Lady Lever Art Gallery is in which English city? A: Liverpool
Q: Pink Fairy and Nine Banded are species of which animal? A: Armadillo
Q: What were the first names of English novelist R.D.Blackmore? A: Richard Doddridge
Q: The Iroquois Cup is competed for in which sport? A: Lacrosse
Q: Don Diego de la Vega is the secret name of which Spanish fictional character? A: Zorro
Q: The Sipi Tau is performed by which national rugby union team before each of their international matches? A: Tonga
Q: ‘Piapa’ is the alphabet of which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: Which English Premier League football club has the motto ‘Audere est Facere’ (To Dare is to Do)? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: Which 1930’s US gangster, upon being admitted to Indiana State Prison, is quoted as saying ‘I will be the meanest bastard you ever saw when I get out of here’? A: John Dillinger
Q: ‘Shazam’ is the favourite word of which comic book hero? A: Captain Marvel
Q: Which wife of English monarch King Henry Vlll was imprisoned in the Tower of London in May 1536? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: In 1954, who was the first Australian to win the British Open Golf Championship? A: Peter Thomson
Q: Which British Prime Minister negotiated the Munich Agreement with Hitler, Mussolini and Daladier? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: The Solovetsky Islands lie in which body of water? A: The White Sea
Q: What nationality is football referee Massimo Busacca? A: Swiss
Q: Theravada is a branch of which religion? A: Buddhism
Q: Mageirocophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Cooking
Q: The drink Caipirinha is the national cocktail of which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: The Fynbos, an area of grassland and thicket, lies in which African country? A: South Africa
Q: What was the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury’s envoy, who was taken hostage in Lebanon in 1987? A: Terry Waite
Q: John Dryden became the first official British what during the reign of King Charles ll? A: Poet Laureate
Q: What does ‘Na’ represent in the periodic table? A: Sodium
Q: Which British female singer released a double A-side, featuring ‘Footprints in the Sand’ and ‘Better in Time’, in aid of Sport Relief? A: Leona Lewis
Q: Universal Product Codes are more commonly known by what name? A: Bar codes
Q: The Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station is in which country? A: Iceland
Q: What type of creature is an argentine? A: Fish
Q: Which country hosted the 2007 Rugby Union World Cup? A: France
Q: Which US actor is the voice of Mr Fox in the 2009 animated film ‘Fantastic Mr Fox’? A: George Clooney
Q: The 2016 Summer Olympics will be held in which country? A: Brazil
Q: Which English King was known as ‘The Hammer of the Scots’? A: Edward l
Q: Oscine relates to what type of creatures? A: Birds
Q: In the Harry Potter novels, what is the name of Neville Longbottom’s toad? A: Trevor
Q: If a person is born on 10th January, what zodiac sign do they have? A: Capricorn
Q: Which famous racehorse is buried next to the finishing post of the Aintree Racecourse? A: Red Rum
Q: In which European country is the Great Belt Bridge? A: Denmark
Q: The Clarin is the best-selling daily newspaper in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: Winston Churchill’s tribute ‘Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few’, was paid to which of the UK’s armed forces? A: Royal Air Force
Q: The painting, La Jaconde, is better known by what name? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Sandra Bullock played FBI agent Gracie Hart in which 2000 film? A: Miss Congeniality
Q: Gloucester Old Spot is a breed of which animal? A: Pig
Q: A lumpectomy is the surgical removal of a lump from which part of the body? A: Breast
Q: In June 1938, Action Comics #1 was published, featuring which comic book hero for the first time? A: Superman
Q: London is a city in which Canadian province? A: Ontario
Q: In the children’s story ‘Peter Pan, what is Captain Hook’s first name? A: James
Q: What is the name of the flag that has been seriously considered by some as an alternative to the Australian flag, because of its association with with democracy and nationalism? A: The Eureka Flag
Q: The company Starbucks is reportedly named after a character in which novel? A: Moby Dick
Q: Hellen was the mythological patriarch of which European country? A: Greece
Q: In November 1952, which Agatha Christie murder-mystery play opened at the Ambassadors Theatre, London? A: The Mousetrap
Q: What is the only number in the English language which is spelt using the same number of letters as the number itself? A: Four
Q: The pudu is the world’s smallest species of which animal? A: Deer
Q: Pedology is the study of what in its natural environment? A: Soil
Q: Canadian jockey John ‘Red’ Pollard was famous for riding which well known racehorse? A: Seabiscuit
Q: Actor Eddie Bunker played which ‘colour’ in the 1991 film ‘Reservoir Dogs’? A: Mr Blue
Q: In Greek mythology, which mortal woman did Zeus visit in the form of a swan and seduce, making her the mother of Helen of Troy? A: Leda
Q: In British royalty, what title did Camilla Parker Bowles take on marrying the Prince of Wales in 2005? A: The Duchess of Cornwall
Q: Apart from Geoff Hurst, which footballer scored a goal for England in the 1966 World Cup Final against Germany? A: Martin Peters
Q: A filibeg is a type of which garment? A: Kilt
Q: Lord Peter Wimsey is a fictional character created by which author? A: Dorothy L. Sayers
Q: Darryl Virostko is a ‘Maverick’s Champion’ in which sport? A: Surfing
Q: Singer Alecia Beth Moore is better known by what name? A: Pink
Q: A formicary is the nest or dwelling of which insect? A: Ant
Q: On which island was Napoleon Bonaparte born in 1769? A: Corsica
Q: What is the basic currency in Russia? A: Ruble
Q: Who founded the Habitat group of stores? A: Terence Conran
Q: In which African country did New Zealand refuse to play in the 2003 Cricket World Cup, because of a terrorist threat? A: Kenya
Q: In the Irish language ‘Eanair’ is which month of the year? A: January
Q: The spice saffron is derived from which flower? A: Crocus
Q: In Morse Code, which vowel is represented by a single dot? A: E
Q: In 2004, the Pentagon budgeted $1 million to bring a modernised version of which Shakespeare play to military bases? A: Othello
Q: Which US comic strip was created by Mort Walker in September 1950? A: Beetle Bailey
Q: Aurophobia is the irrational fear of which metal? A: Gold
Q: Which actor offered Demi Moore $1 million to sleep with him in the 1993 film ‘Indecent Proposal’? A: Robert Redford
Q: The US city of Tombstone is in which state? A: Arizona
Q: In December 1935, Anthony Eden took up which government post in Britain? A: Foreign Secretary
Q: Who wrote the 1940 novel ‘Fanny By Gaslight’? A: Michael Sadleir
Q: Henry Vlll became heir to the English throne on the death of which brother in 1502? A: Arthur
Q: The Jasmund National Park is in which European country? A: Germany
Q: Who played Danny Ocean in the 1960 film ‘Ocean’s Eleven’? A: Frank Sinatra
Q: What is the national flower of Persia? A: Rose
Q: In the human body, what is the mandible? A: Lower jawbone
Q: Actor/comedian Maxwell George Lorimer is better known by what name? A: Max Wall
Q: In which US state was the late singer Michael Jackson born? A: Indiana
Q: The European city of Vienna lies on which river? A: Danube
Q: In November 1936, who was elected US President for a second term in office? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: Which artist is the subject of the 1956 film ‘Lust For Life’? A: Vincent van Gogh
Q: Potomology is the scientific study of what? A: Rivers
Q: The medical condition Herpes Zoster is commonly known as what? A: Shingles
Q: Which English artist’s first names were Joseph Mallord William? A: Turner
Q: What is the capital of Estonia? A: Tallinn
Q: A Bouvier is what type of animal? A: Dog
Q: What is the sub-title of the 1984 film ‘Star Trek 3’? A: The Search For Spock
Q: The alcoholic drink Perry is made from the fermented juice of which fruit? A: Pears
Q: Who wrote the children’s stories ‘The Clangers’, ‘Noggin the Nog’ and ‘Bagpuss’? A: Oliver Postgate
Q: A Gurdwara is a place of worship in which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: Sevastopol, in the Crimea, lies on the shore of which body of water? A: Black Sea
Q: According to the Bible, what was the first bird to be sent out of the Ark by Noah? A: Raven
Q: What was British Empire Day renamed in 1958? A: Commonwealth Day
Q: Which Hollywood actress appeared on the centrefold of the first issue of ‘Playboy’ magazine? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Brideshead Revisited’? A: Evelyn Waugh
Q: What is Mr Rochester’s first name in the novel ‘Jane Eyre’ by Charlotte Bronte? A: Edward
Q: Glassine, Azure Laid and Chromo are all types of what? A: Paper
Q: In a cycle race, what colour jersey is worn each day by the rider accumulating the highest number of points? A: Green
Q: Who played the role of Brian of Nazareth in the 1979 film ‘The Life of Brian’? A: Graham Chapman
Q: Napier University is in which British city? A: Edinburgh
Q: Who duetted with Madonna on the 2008 single ‘Four Minutes’? A: Justin Timberlake
Q: Kathmandu is the capital of which country? A: Nepal
Q: National Doctors Day is celebrated in the USA during which month of the year? A: March
Q: TAP is the chief airline of which European country? A: Portugal
Q: In the children’s tv series, what is the name of Bob the Builder’s female business partner? A: Wendy
Q: The pollex is better known as which part of the human body? A: Thumb
Q: In Greek mythology, how many fates are there? A: Three
Q: Rosalynn Smith is married to which former US President? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: What was a tenth of a Roman Legion called? A: Cohort
Q: In November 2002, which member of the British royal family was convicted and fined for violating the Dangerous Dogs Act? A: Princess Anne
Q: What was the name of the ship that docked at Tilbury, England, in 1948, carrying 492 post-war immigrants from the West Indies? A: MV Empire Windrush
Q: What was the name of the cross-eyed lion in the tv series ‘Daktari’? A: Clarence
Q: Tommy Lee plays which instrument in the band Motley Crue? A: Drums
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Tempus neminem manet’ translate to in English? A: Time waits for no one
Q: Al Qaharih is the local name for which city? A: Cairo
Q: Tunisia gained independence from which European country in 1956? A: France
Q: In medicine, what is the name of the hollow flexible tube inserted into the human body to withdraw or introduce fluids? A: Catheter
Q: Borah Peak is the highest mountain in which US state? A: Idaho
Q: How many people are in the painting ‘The Last Supper’ by Leonardo DaVinci? A: Thirteen
Q: Which country has the internet domain .es? A: Spain
Q: Sir Humphrey Davy, the inventor of the miners safety lamp, was born in which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: US singer Aliane Thiam is better known by what name? A: Akon
Q: In religion, Copts are native Christians of which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Helen of Troy’? A: Queen of Hearts
Q: Danish Navigator, Vitus Bearing, discovered which US state in 1741? A: Alaska
Q: Carlos Menem was made president of which South American country in July 1989? A: Argentina
Q: Solyanka is what type of cooked food dish? A: Soup
Q: Myxomatosis is a viral disease affecting which creatures? A: Rabbits
Q: Which British sports commentator famously said ‘He looks about as happy as a penguin in a microwave’? A: Sid Waddell
Q: The Mosul Dam is in which country? A: Iraq
Q: What is a line on a map called that connects two points which have the same average summer temperature? A: Isothere
Q: How many stars are on the new  national flag of Libya? A: One
Q: How many gold medals did the USA win in the 2010 Winter Olympic Games? A: Nine
Q: Chiswick Eyot is a small island in which body of water in England? A: River Thames
Q: What does Italian company Aprilia manufacture? A: Motorcycles
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Mayor of Castorbridge’? A: Thomas Hardy
Q: Pitch and Putt is a form of which game? A: Golf
Q: Which coastal town in North Yorkshire, England, is twinned with Port Stanley in the Falkland Islands? A: Whitby
Q: How many commandments does the Jewish Torah contain? A: 613
Q: Donwell Abbey is the home of George Knightly in which novel by Jane Austen? A: Emma
Q: The ‘Wisden Almanack’ relates to which sport? A: Cricket
Q: In Greek mythology, who fired the arrow that hit Achilles in the heel? A: Paris
Q: ‘I’ll Be There For You’ by The Rembrandts is the theme tune to which US tv comedy series? A: Friends
Q: Which British politician wrote the 1880 novel ‘Endymion’? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: Which company’s name is short for Durability, Reliability and Excellence? A: Durex
Q: Which writer had a pet cat called Caterina, that was the inspiration for his story ‘The Black Cat’? A: Edgar Allen Poe
Q: In the US tv series ‘Seinfeld’, there is supposedly a reference to which comic-book hero in every episode? A: Superman
Q: Which US singer/guitarist was on the ‘Winter Dance Tour’ when he was killed in a plane crash along with Ritchie Valens and The Big Bopper? A: Buddy Holly
Q: At which English racecourse was the Derby run during World War II? A: Newmarket
Q: What is the name of the land where ‘Puff the Magic Dragon’ lived? A: Honalee
Q: Shami Chakrabati became the director of which British pressure group in 2003? A: Liberty
Q: The Cenotaph is situated in which London street? A: Whitehall
Q: Murder on the Calais Coach’ was the US title of which novel? A: Murder on the Orient Express
Q: Square, Irish and Line all are types of which activity? A: Dancing
Q: A ‘Flying Mare’ is a term used in which sport? A: Wrestling
Q: What is the square root of 196? A: 14
Q: Sania Ramel Airport is in which North African country? A: Morocco
Q: ‘The Dong With a Luminous Nose’ was written by which poet? A: Edward Lear
Q: Which mobile phone company has the motto ‘Connecting people’? A: Nokia
Q: On which river is the German town of Meissen, famous for its porcelain? A: River Elbe
Q: Which English football team play their home games at Old Trafford? A: Manchester United
Q: Rashin-Coatie is the Scottish version of which fairy tale? A: Cinderella
Q: What is the largest recorded number of children born to one woman? A: 69
Q: Which US President signed the orders that made Mother’s Day a national holiday in America? A: President Woodrow Wilson
Q: Babies born during which month of the year are said to be the heaviest? A: May
Q: According to the Guinness Book of Records, the heaviest baby born and survived at 22 pounds 8 ounces, was in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Which group had a hit with ‘Baby Love’ in 1964? A: Supremes
Q: What are the first names of David and Victoria Beckham’s daughter? A: Harper Seven
Q: What is the profession of Tom Selleck in the 1987 film ‘Three Men and a Baby’? A: Architect
Q: What is a baby hamster called? A: Pup
Q: Beatrice, Alice, Louise and Helena were daughters of which British monarch? A: Queen Victoria
Q: A sapling is a young what? A: Tree
Q: Which part of a baby’s body stays the same size from birth? A: Eyes
Q: How many children did actor Charlie Chaplin have? A: Eleven
Q: The name Wendy was made up by the author for which children’s book? A: Peter Pan
Q: What was the top baby girl name in England in 2008? A: Olivia
Q: What was the top baby boy name in England in 2008? A: Jack
Q: How many bones are babies born with? A: 300
Q: What does a noctambulist do? A: Sleepwalk
Q: Which US state is the setting for the 1971 film ‘The Last Picture Show’? A: Texas
Q: Which Italian-born fashion designer introduced the colour ‘Shocking Pink’ in 1936? A: Elsa Schiaparelli
Q: Grace Cathedral is in which US city? A: San Francisco
Q: Prior to Andy Murray, who was the last British tennis player to win the Wimbledon Men’s Singles Final? A: Fred Perry
Q: A flitch is another name for a side of what? A: Bacon
Q: Didymitis is the inflammation of which part of the human body? A: Testicle
Q: What was the name of the convict ship which set sail from Britain in 1789 with the first cargo of female prisoners for a penal colony in Australia? A: Lady Juliana
Q: Who played Christine Painter (a thinly disguised Cynthia Payne) in the 1987 film ‘Personal Services’? A: Julie Walters
Q: In 1950, which US President ordered air and sea forces to defend South Korea? A: Harry S. Truman
Q: Jimmy and Alison Porter are characters in which John Osborne play? A: Look Back In Anger
Q: In which year did Patrick Moore present the first episode of ‘The Sky At Night’ on television? A: 1957
Q: ‘Bowl of Fruit, Violin and Bottle’ is the work of which artist? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: The Kingdom of Lesotho is completely surrounded by which country? A: South Africa
Q: Who played gay rights activist and politician Harvey Milk in the 2008 film ‘Milk’? A: Sean Penn
Q: The Democracy Monument is in which Asian city? A: Bangkok
Q: Which jockey won the 2003 Epsom Derby on Kris Kin? A: Kieran Fallon
Q: Who wrote the play ‘The Night of the Iguana’? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: Mary of Teck was the wife of which British monarch? A: George V
Q: The Philippines lie in which ocean? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: How many times does the word ‘eternity’ appear in the King James version of the Bible? A: Once
Q: Mercury Seven, also referred to as the Original Seven, were a group of what? A: Astronauts
Q: In which year were the Academy Awards first broadcast on television? A: 1953
Q: The Ryder Cup is contested in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Abdullah Gul was elected President of which country in August 2007? A: Turkey
Q: Meniere’s disease affects which part of the body? A: Inner ear
Q: Actor Harris Glenn Milstead was better known by what name? A: Divine
Q: Which Irish artist had a poet brother called William? A: John Butler Yeats
Q: A morwong is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: In which US state is Lake Dillon? A: Colorado
Q: Which British monarch said of Thomas Seymour ‘This day died a man of much wit and very little judgement’? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: Who were the runners-up in the 1978 FIFA World Cup? A: Netherlands
Q: The village of Blenheim, the scene of a 1704 battle, is in which mainland European country? A: Germany
Q: Abraham Slender is a character in which Shakespeare play? A: The Merry Wives of Windsor
Q: The Vedas are ancient texts relating to which religion? A: Hinduism
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Scito te ipsum’ translate to in English? A: Know yourself
Q: What is the first name of author Agatha Christie’s Miss Marple? A: Jane
Q: In anatomy, otic relates to which part of the human body? A: Ear
Q: Actor Lawrence Tureaud is better known by what name? A: Mr T
Q: Delamere Forest is in which English county? A: Cheshire
Q: Who wrote the musical ‘Oliver’, which was based on Charles Dickens novel Oliver Twist? A: Lionel Bart
Q: The Xingu River is in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: Which US President was assassinated in 1881? A: James Garfield
Q: Zakumi was the name of the official mascot for which sporting competition? A: 2010 FIFA World Cup
Q: In mathematics, what type of angle measures more than 180 degrees but less than 360 degrees? A: Reflex angle
Q: What is the basic currency of Brazil? A: Real
Q: Boxer Jacob ‘Baby Jake’ Matlala was born in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which US state is known as the ‘Gem State’? A: Idaho
Q: Selene (Selenological Engineering Explorer) was the second lunar orbital spacecraft launched by which country, in September 2007? A: Japan
Q: In humans, cholecystitis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Gall bladder
Q: Colomba Pasquale (or Easter Dove) is a traditional Easter cake which originated from which country? A: Italy
Q: The metical is the basic monetary unit of which African country? A: Mozambique
Q: Which perfume was named after Coco Chanel’s birthday? A: Chanel No. 19
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister during the 1956 Suez Crisis? A: Anthony Eden
Q: Which screenwriter and novelist created the Daleks for the tv series Doctor Who? A: Terry Nation
Q: The company Titleist manufacture which sports equipment? A: Golf
Q: What type of fish is included in the ingredients of Worcestershire Sauce? A: Anchovies
Q: What was the first battle in the Wars of the Roses in England in 1455? A: Battle of St Albans
Q: Who won the 2010 BRIT Award for British Male Solo Artist? A: Dizzee Rascal
Q: A polygraph is more commonly known by what name? A: Lie detector
Q: Pomology is the study of what? A: Fruit production
Q: Victor Mature and Hedy Lamarr played the title roles in which 1949 Biblical film? A: Samson and Delilah
Q: A balcony named after which US President is on the second floor of the Whitehouse? A: Harry Truman
Q: Which sprinter lit the Olympic flame at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in Australia? A: Cathy Freeman
Q: Who wrote ‘The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole’? A: Sue Townsend
Q: What type of animal is a kob? A: Antelope
Q: What type of car did Burt Reynolds drive in the 1977 film ‘Smokey and the Bandit’? A: Pontiac Firebird
Q: What is the title of the 1931 film in which the Marx Brothers are stowaways on an ocean liner? A: Monkey Business
Q: Brothers Richard and Simon Mantell played which sport for England in the 2010 Commonwealth Games? A: Hockey
Q: Which Mediterranean island attained its independence from Britain in 1960? A: Cyprus
Q: Florimania is a passion for what? A: Flowers
Q: Mary Helen Mackillop, also known as Saint Mary of the Cross, is the only person from which country to be recognised by the Roman Catholic church as a saint? A: Australia
Q: The Kaieteur Falls are in which South American country? A: Guyana
Q: Who wrote the book ‘Dubliners’, first published in 1914? A: James Joyce
Q: La Sapienza University is in which European city? A: Rome
Q: What is the first name of 2010 World Champion Formula One racing driver Vettel? A: Sebastian
Q: What is the name of the narrow strip of land, with water either side, linking two larger areas of land? A: Isthmus
Q: Film critic John Simon described which actor as resembling ‘A half-melted bulldog’? A: Walter Matthau
Q: Myocardium is the muscular tissue of which part of the human body? A: Heart
Q: Which legendary Greek hero killed the Minotaur with the help of Ariadne? A: Theseus
Q: Curio is a character in which Shakespeare play? A: Twelfth Night
Q: What is the official language of Egypt? A: Arabic
Q: Which famous US outlaw shot the cashier of a savings bank in Gallatin Missouri in 1869? A: Jesse James
Q: Which actor narrated the 1970’s UK tv documentary ‘The World At War’? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: Which online bookstore was originally called Cadabra.com? A: Amazon
Q: Magyarorszag is the local name for which country? A: Hungary
Q: Who was the last English monarch to die on the battlefield? A: Richard III
Q: The National Motor Museum is in which English county? A: Hampshire
Q: Mal de mer is the French term for which ailment in humans? A: Seasickness
Q: CDN is the international car registration for which country? A: Canada
Q: FILA is an international federation for which sport? A: Wrestling
Q: American 1940’s murder victim Elizabeth Short was known by what posthumous nickname? A: The Black Dahlia
Q: What is the title of the humorous country song released by Australian singer Slim Dusty in 1957, the first Australian single to ‘go gold’? A: A Pub With No Beer
Q: How many books make up the New Testament of the Bible? A: 27
Q: Which nuclear physicist is known as the ‘father of the atomic bomb’? A: Julius Robert Oppenheimer
Q: The Brazos Cliffs is a famous rock formation in which US state? A: New Mexico
Q: Which country has the internet domain .is? A: Iceland
Q: Which British scientist discovered acetylene in 1836? A: Edmund Davy
Q: What type of creature is a pintail? A: Duck
Q: British monarch Henry VIII married which of his wives in 1540? A: Anne of Cleves
Q: Which country hosted and won the 1995 Rugby World Cup? A: South Africa
Q: Which US band released a 2002 album called ‘By The Way’? A: Red Hot Chilli Peppers
Q: In February 1983 which US writer choked to death on the cap from a bottle of eye drops? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: The character of Adam the servant was said to have been played by Shakespeare in which of his plays? A: As You Like It
Q: Which writer created the fictional detective Charlie Chan? A: Earl Biggers
Q: Who built the Roman wall which divided England and Scotland? A: Hadrian
Q: Which company introduced the first triple blade cartridge razor, the Mach 3, in 1998? A: Gillette
Q: Which famous London museum was established at the Baker Street Bazaar in 1835? A: Madame Tussaud’s
Q: The Bernstein and Sondheim song ‘Somewhere’ was written for which musical? A: West Side Story
Q: Catamarca, Mendoza and Formosa are all provinces in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: In humans, the medical condition aglutition is the inability to do what? A: Swallow
Q: Pouchong tea is traditionally scented with the leaves of which flower? A: Rose
Q: Which Palestinian paramilitary group seized eleven Israelis at the 1972 Munich Olympic Games? A: Black September
Q: Which element is represented by the letters Hg in the periodic table? A: Mercury
Q: What is the national flower of Switzerland? A: Edelweiss
Q: In January 1953 over 70% of all TV sets in the USA were tuned in to watch the star of which show go to hospital to give birth to her son? A: I Love Lucy
Q: Silent film star Charlie Chaplin was born in which European city? A: London
Q: What type of creature is a minke? A: Whale
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Lancelot’? A: Jack of clubs
Q: The Azores island group is administered by which country? A: Portugal
Q: Which was the first Latin-American country to legalise same-sex marriage? A: Argentina
Q: In which event did Amy Williams win a gold medal for Britain at the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: Women’s skeleton
Q: ‘Tanach’ describes the whole of the scriptures of which religion? A: Judaism
Q: Who played Vicky Pollard’s twin sister in the 2006 Comic Relief episode of ‘Little Britain’? A: Kate Moss
Q: Deba, boning, sashimi and paring are all types of what? A: Kitchen knife
Q: Managua is the capital of which South American country? A: Nicaragua
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Jump and Jive’ is the nickname for which number? A: 35
Q: ‘Crome Yellow’ is the title of which author’s first novel? A: Aldous Huxley
Q: In Greek mythology, Hypnos was the god of what? A: Sleep
Q: Who directed the 1968 film ‘Rosemary’s Baby’? A: Roman Polanski
Q: How many starting players are in a basketball team? A: Five
Q: Fratricide is the killing of one’s what? A: Brother
Q: Dubris was the Roman name for which English port? A: Dover
Q: Which 18th century British author described a second marriage as ‘The triumph of hope over experience’? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: Which real-life couple starred in the 1994 remake of the film ‘The Getaway’? A: Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger
Q: In January 1986, George Younger took up which British cabinet post A: Defence Secretary
Q: Alice Fitzwarren was the wife of which Lord Mayor of London? A: Dick Whittington
Q: What are author J.R.R. Tolkien’s first names? A: John Ronald Reuel
Q: In which city was tennis player Martina Navratilova born? A: Prague
Q: What type of animal is Sooty the Bear’s girlfriend Soo? A: Panda
Q: Who plays the Alfred the butler in the 2005 film ‘Batman Begins’? A: Michael Caine
Q: Who was the first US President to appear on television while still in office? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: Castle Howard is in which English county? A: Yorkshire
Q: The headwear item ‘yamulke’ is better known by what name? A: Skull cap
Q: Dydd Iau is Welsh for which day of the week? A: Thursday
Q: The quetzal is the basic monetary unit of which country? A: Guatemala
Q: The East Siberian Sea lies in which body of water? A: Arctic Ocean
Q: What is the collective name for a group of rhinos? A: Crash
Q: British athlete Tessa Sanderson competed in which field event? A: Javelin
Q: Who was the Archbishop of Canterbury between 1980 and 1991? A: Robert Runcie
Q: In medicine, belonephobia is an irrational fear of what? A: Needles
Q: What type of creature is a kagu (or cagou)? A: Bird
Q: A ‘Lace’ anniversary celebrates many years of marriage? A: Thirteen
Q: Who was the father of English monarch Edward VI? A: Henry VIII
Q: In 1785, the first crossing of which body of water was made by Francois Blanchard and John Jeffries using a hot air balloon? A: English Channel
Q: How many coloured rings make up the Olympic Games symbol? A: Five
Q: ‘Prince Caspian’, ‘The Magician’s Nephew’ and ‘The Silver Chair’ are all books from which series? A: Narnia Chronicles
Q: The paint calcamine (or kalsomine) is better known by what name? A: Whitewash
Q: In which sport would a referee say ‘Crouch, Bind, Set’? A: Rugby union
Q: Author Charles Lutwidge Dodgson is better known by what name? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Vermicide is a substance used for killing which creatures? A: Worms
Q: Miss Gatsby and Miss Tibbs were two elderly residents in which UK tv sitcom? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: ‘The Angel of the North’ is the work of which British sculptor? A: Antony Gormley
Q: Who was US actor Mickey Rooney’s first wife? A: Ava Gardner
Q: In which US state were the 1692 Witch Trials held? A: Massachusetts
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books, what is the name of Hermoine Granger’s cat? A: Crookshanks
Q: In Greek mythology, who murdered Glauce, the bride of Jason, on their wedding day? A: Medea
Q: Which English Premier League football club has the motto ‘Nil Satis Nisi Optimum’ (Nothing but the best is good enough)? A: Everton F.C.
Q: Which UK comedy series featured the characters Eccles, Bloodnok and Bluebottle? A: The Goon Show
Q: What is the cube root of 729? A: 9
Q: A hexagon is a plane figure with how many sides and angles? A: Six
Q: Chopin Airport is in which European city? A: Warsaw
Q: Who played Hannah in the 1986 film ‘Hannah and Her Sisters’? A: Mia Farrow
Q: ‘The Divine Miss M’ was the debut album of which US singer? A: Bette Midler
Q: Cobweb and Toolroom are Secret Service codenames for whose US office? A: The Vice President
Q: Which Rodgers and Hammerstein musical was written for actress Gertrude Lawrence, who died a year later halfway through the show’s run? A: The King and I
Q: Curtly Ambrose played for which national cricket team? A: West Indies
Q: Which was the 48th US state to be admitted to the Union, in February 1912? A: Arizona
Q: Irish businessman Sean Quinn became the owner of which British golf course in 2005? A: The Belfry
Q: Donald Pleasance, Telly Savalas and Charles Gray have all played the role of which James Bond villain? A: Ernst Stavro Blofeld
Q: Pen y Fan is the highest peak in which British national park? A: Brecon Beacons
Q: What is the US state capital of North Dakota? A: Bismarck
Q: Which singer released a 1989 album entitled ‘Foreign Affair’? A: Tina Turner
Q: Who invented the electric battery in 1800? A: Alessandro Volta
Q: In which mountain range is the Scottish mountain Ben Nevis? A: Grampians
Q: Formula One racing driver Jody Scheckter was born in the city of East London in which country? A: South Africa
Q: In 1936, Joseph Bowers was the first inmate to attempt an escape from which prison? A: Alcatraz
Q: In which year did Queen Elizabeth II first visit Australia as a reigning monarch? A: 1954
Q: Galatasaray are a football team based in which European country? A: Turkey
Q: In which religion is there one god called Ahura Mazda? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: The port of Watchet is in which English county? A: Somerset
Q: Which US President was given the nickname ‘The Trust Buster’? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: The Eora and Cammeraygal peoples are indigenous to which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the 18th letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Sigma
Q: An opah is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Which band released a 1997 album entitled ‘White on Blonde’? A: Texas
Q: British singer and actor Terence Nelhams-Wright was better known by what name? A: Adam Faith
Q: In the 18th Century, the British Royal Navy ordered limes and lemons to be carried on board ships as a remedy for which disease? A: Scurvy
Q: Halliwell’s Guide is a reference book relating to what? A: Films
Q: Founded by Robert Baden Powell, what is the motto of the Boy Scouts? A: Be Prepared
Q: The Asteroid Belt lies between the orbits of which two planets in our solar system? A: Mars and Jupiter
Q: How many red stripes are there on the national flag of Puerto Rico? A: Three
Q: Who became President of France in May 1995? A: Jacques Chirac
Q: The medical term ‘Prominentia Laryngea’ is commonly known as which part of the body? A: Adam’s apple
Q: In 1935, which country was renamed Iran? A: Persia
Q: Which was the first British football club to win the European Cup-Winners Cup? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: The SNCF is the national railway corporation of which European country? A: France
Q: On 30th July 1938, the first issue of which children’s comic was published in Britain? A: The Beano
Q: Which country was defeated by the French during the Battle of Friedland in the Napoleonic Wars? A: Russia
Q: Australian born Laura Robson is associated with which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Which is the only species of deer of which both male and female have antlers? A: Caribou (Reindeer)
Q: In 1961, the painting titled ‘Le Bateau’ by which artist hung upside down in the Museum of Modern Art in New York for 47 days without anyone noticing? A: Henri Matisse
Q: What is the name given to the fluid surrounding a foetus in the womb? A: Amniotic Fluid
Q: In James Bond novels and films, what is the codename for the fictional research and development division of the British Secret Service? A: Q
Q: Xerophagy is the eating of what? A: Dry food
Q: In 1993, which animated animal was first used to advertise Coca Cola? A: Polar Bear
Q: The Seto Inland Sea separates the three main islands of which country? A: Japan
Q: What is the national flower of Cyprus? A: Cyclamen
Q: Which element does ‘K’ represent in the Periodic Table? A: Potassium
Q: Which American playwright wrote the play ‘All God’s Chillun Got Wings’? A: Eugene O’Neill
Q: If a person is ambidextrous they can use which part of the body equally well? A: Hands
Q: Which English Monarch was created ‘Defender of the Faith’ by Pope Leo X? A: Henry VIII
Q: In the US tv series ‘Dallas’, what was the first name of Bobby and Pam Ewing’s adopted son? A: Christopher
Q: Which 19th Century poet wrote ‘Clancy of the Overflow’? A: Banjo Patterson
Q: Italian mountaineers Lino Lacedelli and Achille Compagnoni became the first people to successfully reach the summit of which Himalayan peak, via the Abruzzi Ridge? A: K2
Q: The Codex Vaticanus is said to be the oldest almost complete manuscript of which book? A: Greek Bible
Q: Anna Gordy was the first wife of which late soul singer? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: Who played Heinrich Himmler in the 1976 film ‘The Eagle Has Landed’? A: Donald Pleasance
Q: Who played in the Men’s Singles Finals at Wimbledon in 1980? A: Bjorn Borg and John McEnroe
Q: The Bay of Pomerania lies in which body of water? A: Baltic Sea
Q: ‘Martes’ is Spanish for which day of the week? A: Tuesday
Q: Which Asian country was formerly known as Formosa? A: Taiwan
Q: Which London palace is the official residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury? A: Lambeth Palace
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies between 9 and 11? A: 14
Q: Which is the fastest rotating planet in our solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: ‘The Dong With the Luminous Nose’ is a poem by which poet? A: Edward Lear
Q: Mr Kitty is the pet cat of which character in the US animated tv series ‘South Park’? A: Eric Cartman
Q: Which songwriter and rapper’s real name is Timothy Z Mosley? A: Timbaland
Q: What was the name of the high school in the US tv series ‘Happy Days’? A: Jefferson High School
Q: In medicine, what is the name for inflammation of the walls of a vein? A: Phlebitis
Q: Cobalt, Cyan and Cerulean are shades of which colour? A: Blue
Q: What was US singer and actor Dean Martin’s only UK number one hit single? A: Memories Are Made of This
Q: Which English playwright wrote the 1925 play ‘Fallen Angels’? A: Noel Coward
Q: Chicago Pile-1 (CP-1) was the world’s first what? A: Nuclear reactor
Q: Who wrote ‘The Joy of Sex’, first published in 1972? A: Dr. Alex Comfort
Q: Amnesty International was founded in which year? A: 1961
Q: Singer Alvin Stardust played pub landlord Greg Andersen in which UK tv soap? A: Hollyoaks
Q: In the novel ‘Gulliver’s Travels’ what is Gulliver’s first name? A: Lemuel
Q: In February 1935, Wallace H. Carothers first produced which synthetic material? A: Nylon
Q: A mustang is what type of creature? A: Horse
Q: Englishman Bob Nudd has been world champion four times in which sport? A: Coarse angling
Q: The heat of what is measured on the Scoville Scale? A: Chilli peppers
Q: Which European city is said to have been the first to introduce house numbers, in 1512? A: Paris
Q: The song ‘Wandrin’ Star’ comes from which 1969 film? A: Paint Your Wagon
Q: In 1816, which famous English dandy fled to France to escape debtor’s prison? A: Beau Brummell
Q: Which British boxer bought one of the original ‘Only Fools and Horses’ Reliant Robins in 2004? A: Ricky Hatton
Q: John Sentamu was given which English title in May 2005? A: Archbishop of York
Q: In religion, Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, Uriel, Chamuel, Jophiel and Zadkiel are all what? A: Archangels
Q: The Scottish city of Perth lies on which river? A: River Tay
Q: Which band released an 1974 album entitled ‘Crime of the Century’? A: Supertramp
Q: What is the first name of comic-hero Superman’s natural mother? A: Lara
Q: Which player scored for both sides during the 1987 F.A. Cup Final? A: Gary Mabbutt
Q: What type of animal is a Herdwick? A: Sheep
Q: The cat Gray-Malkin appears in which Shakespeare Play? A: Macbeth
Q: In horse racing, during which month is the St. Leger run? A: September
Q: Surrealist painter Rene Magritte was born in which country? A: Belgium
Q: Actor Roy Harold Scherer was better known by what name? A: Rock Hudson
Q: Philip IV became King of which European country in 1621? A: Spain
Q: In which English county are the Medway Towns? A: Kent
Q: Who performed the theme song to the 1987 James Bond film ‘Living Daylights’ A: A-ha
Q: Helladic relates to the Bronze Age cultures of which European country? A: Greece
Q: What type of bird is a conure? A: Parrot
Q: ‘Nighthawks’ is the work of which American artist? A: Edward Hopper
Q: Which actor played the President in the 1997 film ‘Air Force One’? A: Harrison Ford
Q: How many lines are in an English sonnet? A: 14
Q: Mount Elbert is in which US state? A: Colorado
Q: Dendrophobia is the irrational fear of which natural items? A: Trees
Q: Which US President said ‘I don’t know who my grandfather was, I am much more concerned to know what his grandson will be’? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which country has the internet domain .se? A: Sweden
Q: Lake Nasser is in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: Which trio made their last feature film appearance in the 1949 film ‘Love Happy’? A: The Marx Brothers
Q: Vermelho is Portuguese for which colour? A: Red
Q: Which ‘crisis’ is also referred to as the ‘Tripartite Aggression’? A: Suez Crisis
Q: In the human body, where is the atrium? A: Heart
Q: Which member of the Beatles was also known as Nelson Wilbury? A: George Harrison
Q: Which animal is depicted on the logo of Peugeot cars? A: Lion
Q: ‘Fragaria’ is the Latin name for which fruit? A: Strawberry
Q: A brontometer records the activity of what? A: Thunderstorms
Q: Bert and Ernie are the names of the policeman and the taxi driver in which Frank Capra film? A: It’s a Wonderful Life
Q: In British currency slang, how much is a ‘Pony’ worth? A: 25
Q: Igglepiggle and Makka Pakka are characters from which children’s tv programme? A: In the Night Garden
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Mustardseed appear? A: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Q: John George Diefenbaker was Prime Minister of which country from 1957 to 1963? A: Canada
Q: Part of the boundary between which two US states runs down the middle of of the main street of the town of Texarkana? A: Texas and Arkansas
Q: Ben Gurion International Airport is in which country? A: Israel
Q: Which basketball star is kidnapped by cartoon characters in the 1996 film ‘Space Jam’? A: Michael Jordan
Q: A caracal is what type of animal? A: Cat
Q: The ‘Fringe Festival’, held in August each year, is hosted by which European city? A: Edinburgh
Q: New Zealand born cartoonist David Low created which ‘Colonel’ in the 1930’s? A: Blimp
Q: In medicine, myology is the study of the structure, arrangement and action of what? A: Muscles
Q: Which character did actress Susie Blake play in the British tv soap ‘Coronation Street’? A: Bev Unwin
Q: In Greek mythology, one of the labours of Hercules was to procure the ‘what’ belonging to Zeus, which were guarded by the Hesperides? A: Golden apples
Q: Alice Springs is in which Australian state? A: Northern Territory
Q: Manuka, Tupelo and Firewood are all types of which foodstuff? A: Honey
Q: Actress Phyllis Diller said ‘His favourite exercise is climbing tall people’, about which Hollywood actor? A: Mickey Rooney
Q: Which English football player has a daughter called Harper Seven? A: David Beckham
Q: Who directed and starred in the 1968 film ‘The Green Berets’? A: John Wayne
Q: Which ‘stone’ was removed from London’s Westminster Abbey on Christmas day 1950? A: Stone of Scone
Q: In medicine, metritis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Uterus
Q: Which 18th Century scientist and politician published the literary work ‘Poor Richard’s Almanack’? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Which English singer-songwriter’s pet spaniel was a special guest at his civil partnership ceremony? A: Elton John
Q: What is the name of the dragon which guards the treasure in the novel ‘The Hobbit’? A: Smaug
Q: In which year was the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour in the USA? A: 1941
Q: In British government, Sir George Cornewall Lewis was replaced by George Grey in 1861 in which cabinet post? A: Home Secretary
Q: In which year was the Jif Plastic Lemon launched by Reckitt and Colman? A: 1957
Q: What was the first name of 18th Century English poet Lord Byron? A: George
Q: What is the main ingredient of the dish lutefisk? A: Fish
Q: The Sopot International Song Festival is held annually in which European country? A: Poland
Q: What is the title of the only ‘Carry On’ film in which US actor Phil Silvers appeared? A: Follow That Camel
Q: Which English Lord led the Charge of the Light Brigade at the Battle of Balaclava in 1854? A: Lord Cardigan
Q: In which continent is the Beardmore Glacier? A: Antarctica
Q: The Republic of the Union of Myanmar is otherwise known by what name? A: Burma
Q: Which French driver won the 1996 Monaco Grand Prix, his first Formula One victory? A: Olivier Panis
Q: What is the name of the German origin biscuit baked in a looped knot and often glazed with salt. A: Pretzel
Q: Which British comedian’s catchphrase was ‘Just like that’? A: Tommy Cooper
Q: Ainsley Harriot was once head chef at which UK cricket ground? A: Lord’s
Q: In politics, psephology is the study of what? A: Elections
Q: Ligustrum Ovalifolium is the Latin name for which shrub? A: Privet
Q: What is the name of Romeo’s friend and cousin in Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet? A: Benvolio
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Caveat emptor’ translate to in English? A: Let the buyer beware
Q: Lyon (or Lyons) is the capital of which French departement? A: Rhone
Q: Which national football team is nicknamed ‘Bafana Bafana’? A: South Africa
Q: In mathematics, acute, obtuse and reflex are all types of what? A: Angles
Q: What relation was Napoleon III of France to Napoleon I of France? A: Nephew
Q: Which US state is known as the ‘Bluegrass State’? A: Kentucky
Q: Who played Ron Kovic in the 1989 film ‘Born on the Fourth of July’? A: Tom Cruise
Q: Which planet in our solar has the longest year, equal to 164 Earth years? A: Neptune
Q: Who wrote the 1804 poem ‘Jerusalem’? A: William Blake
Q: Who directed and starred in the 1969 film ‘Easy Rider’? A: Dennis Hopper
Q: Which cleric is known as the ‘Primate of England’? A: Archbishop of Canterbury
Q: Which Sanskrit word means ‘awakened one’? A: Buddha
Q: What is the piece of turf called which is cut out of the ground by a golf club striking a ball? A: Divot
Q: In chemistry, Heavy Hydrogen is another term for what? A: Deuterium
Q: Caravane, Paneer and Mondseer are all types of what? A: Cheese
Q: Talipes is the medical term for which condition? A: Club foot
Q: Who is the creator of animated characters Wallace and Gromit? A: Nick Park
Q: The River Lyn is in which English county? A: Devon
Q: Which John Steinbeck novel is based on the Biblical story of Cain and Abel? A: East of Eden
Q: Mar Chiquita (Cordoba) is the largest natural salt lake in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: Published in 1687, who wrote ‘Philosophae Naturalis Principa Mathematica’? A: Isaac Newton
Q: British singer Gaynor Hopkins is better known by what name? A: Bonnie Tyler
Q: During which month of the year does Mexico celebrate its independence from Spain? A: September
Q: How many times does the word ‘Christian’ appear in the King James version of the Bible? A: Three
Q: In January 1955, Marian Anderson was the first black person to perform at which New York venue? A: The Metropolitan Opera
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister of Australia? A: Edmund Barton
Q: Who played Sandy Richardson in the British tv series ‘Crossroads’? A: Roger Tonge
Q: A squab is the young of which breed of bird? A: Pigeon
Q: In which part of the body would a person have a Pott’s fracture? A: Ankle
Q: What does ‘Au’ represent in the Periodic Table? A: Gold
Q: What is the title of singer Bruno Mars debut album, released in October 2010? A: Doo-Wops and Hooligans
Q: Ephebiphobia is the irrational fear of which members of society? A: Teenagers
Q: Iatrophobia is the irrational fear of which profession? A: Doctors
Q: Vestiophobia is the irrational fear of which items? A: Clothing
Q: Sophophobia is the irrational fear of doing what? A: Learning
Q: Thalassophobia is the irrational fear of which natural expanse? A: Sea
Q: Leukophobia is the irrational fear of which colour? A: White
Q: Nosocomephobia is the irrational fear of which institutions? A: Hospitals
Q: Hedonophobia is the irrational fear of ‘what’ that should be good for people? A: Pleasure
Q: Podophobia is the irrational fear of which part of the body? A: Feet
Q: Gamophobia is the irrational fear of what type of relationship? A: Marriage
Q: Anthrophobia (or anthophobia) is the irrational fear of which part of nature? A: Flowers
Q: Uranophobia is the irrational fear of which place or state of bliss? A: Heaven
Q: Gymnophobia is the irrational fear of which natural state in humans? A: Nudity
Q: Triskaidekaphobia is the irrational fear of which number? A: 13
Q: Hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia is the irrational fear of long what? A: Words
Q: Which African country is regarded as the spiritual home of the Rastafari religious movement? A: Ethiopia
Q: In economics, which four countries are known as the BRIC countries? A: Brazil, Russia, India, China
Q: A peregrine is what type of bird? A: Falcon
Q: James Baskett, who sang the song ‘Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah’, played which character in the 1946 Disney film ‘Song of the South’? A: Uncle Remus
Q: Who became the Royal Ballet’s youngest principal dancer in 1989, at the age of 20? A: Darcey Bussell
Q: The Spratly Islands lie in which body of water? A: The South China Sea
Q: Nadezhda Konstantinovna Krupskaya was married to which Russian politician? A: Vladimir Lenin
Q: Which English chemist and physicist invented the dynamo? A: Michael Faraday
Q: In humans, the deficiency of which vitamin causes pellagra? A: B3
Q: Sila and Majella are national parks in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Saffron and Bubbles are characters in which UK tv comedy series? A: Absolutely Fabulous
Q: Which play by Arthur Miller opened on Broadway in New York in January 1953? A: The Crucible
Q: The original Guggenheim Museum is in which city? A: New York
Q: Clidro, Pipeline and Backdoor are terms that are used in which sport? A: Surfing
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books, what is the name of Harry’s pet owl? A: Hedwig
Q: Which US state has borders with Kansas, Illinois, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, Iowa, Nebraska and Oklahoma? A: Missouri
Q: What is the name of the highly toxic protein obtained from the pressed seeds of the castor oil plant? A: Ricin
Q: Which former British Prime Minister played cricket for Middlesex? A: Sir Alec Douglas-Home
Q: Which English poet died in 1915 from septicaemia after being bitten by a mosquito? A: Rupert Brooke
Q: What is  the name of the dog in the children’s tv programme ‘The Herbs’? A: Dill
Q: How many lines usually make up a limerick? A: Five
Q: Taxus is the Latin name for which tree? A: Yew
Q: What is the name of the official Scottish residence of the British monarch? A: The Palace of Holyroodhouse
Q: How many points are scored for a drop-goal in rugby union? A: Three
Q: Convict George Joseph Smith was known as the ‘Brides in the ‘what’ murderer’? A: Bath
Q: Which late actor and comedian was born Solomon Joel Cohen in May 1913? A: Sid James
Q: Which US author wrote the novel ‘Get Shorty’? A: Elmore Leonard
Q: Which artist is known for his ‘Blue Period’? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Which country hosted the 1994 FIFA World Cup? A: USA
Q: The Solheim Cup is contested by women in which sport? A: Golf
Q: In the human body, Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis is commonly known by what name? A: Hayfever
Q: Italian musician David Rizzio was private secretary to which British monarch? A: Mary Queen of Scots
Q: Who was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion 1919 to 1926? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: What type of creature is a bulbul? A: Bird
Q: How many players are on the field at one time in a men’s lacrosse team? A: Ten
Q: What is the name  of the dark, dense German bread made from coarsely ground rye? A: Pumpernickel
Q: Asturias, Aragon and Murcia are regions in which European country? A: Spain
Q: US singer Thomas DeCarlo Callaway is better known by what name? A: Cee-Lo Green
Q: ‘Down and Out in Paris and London’ was written by which British author? A: George Orwell
Q: Who won the 2010 Brit Award for best British Female Solo Artist? A: Lily Allen
Q: The city of Qom is in which country? A: Iran
Q: X Type, Open End, Two Way and Closed End are all types of what used in the fashion industry? A: Zip
Q: What was the name of the late King’s jester in Shakespeare’s ‘Hamlet’? A: Yorick
Q: Who assassinated US President Abraham Lincoln in 1865? A: John Wilkes Booth
Q: Which is the only novel by Charles Dickens to have a female narrator (Esther Summerson)? A: Bleak House
Q: Which racing circuit held the 2011 British Formula One Grand Prix? A: Silverstone
Q: Nancy Shevell married which English singer/songwriter in October 2011? A: Paul McCartney
Q: In August 2011 NASA announced that photographic evidence had been captured of possible liquid water of which planet in our solar system? A: Mars
Q: Which Scottish musician/songwriter died in January 2011? A: Gerry Rafferty
Q: The Puyehue volcano erupted in which South American country in June 2011? A: Chile
Q: The President of which African country resigned in February 2011 after widespread protests calling for his departure? A: Egypt
Q: Which film won the 2011 Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film? A: Toy Story 3
Q: The restored tomb of which dramatist was unveiled in Paris in November 2011, after being ruined by lipstick smears left by thousands of kisses? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which British newspaper closed down in July 2011 after several allegations of phone-hacking by journalists? A: The News of the World
Q: An ‘E coli’ outbreak, said to be caused by bean sprouts, killed over 30 people in which European country in June 2011? A: Germany
Q: What is the title of the novel which won the 2011 Man Booker Prize for Fiction for Julian Barnes? A: The Sense of an Ending
Q: What was the name of the hurricane which hit the East Coast of America in August 2011? A: Irene
Q: Which English singer/songwriter was found dead in her apartment on 23rd July 2011? A: Amy Winehouse
Q: The 2011 IAAF World Championships in Athletics took place in which country? A: South Korea
Q: Which national team won the 2011 Rugby Union World Cup? A: New Zealand
Q: The Harbin International Ice and Snow Festival was held in which country in January 2011? A: China
Q: In September 2011, which two countries signed a pact to end a 40 year border demarcation dispute? A: India and Bangladesh
Q: Which actress won the 2011 Best Actress Oscar for her role in the film ‘Black Swan’? A: Natalie Portman
Q: Which English football team won the 2011 FA Cup? A: Manchester City
Q: What is the name of the Space Shuttle launched into orbit for the last time from the Kennedy Space Station in July 2011? A: Atlantis
Q: Which British singer’s wife gave birth to their son Aiden on 16th February 2011? A: Rod Stewart
Q: Which member of Take That replaced Simon Cowell as a judge on the British ‘X Factor’? A: Gary Barlow
Q: On 11th March 2011 a 9.1 magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami hit the east of which country? A: Japan
Q: Which British model married Jamie Hince in July 2011? A: Kate Moss
Q: The day following Thanksgiving in the US, traditionally the beginning of the Christmas shopping season, is called ‘What’ Friday? A: Black
Q: Which team won the 2011 US Super Bowl? A: Green Bay Packers
Q: During which month in 2011 was the 100th annual International Women’s Day? A: March
Q: Which Glasgow-based sculptor, whose works include artificial trees and a leaning litter bin, won the 2011 Turner Prize? A: Martin Boyce
Q: Which US boxer died on 7th November 2011? A: Joe Frazier
Q: Which 2011 Nobel Prize was jointly awarded to Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Leymah Gbowee and Tawakkol Karman? A: Nobel Peace Prize
Q: Which tennis player won the 2011 Wimbledon Men’s Singles Championship? A: Novak Djokovic
Q: On January 1st 2011, which country became the 17th Eurozone country, when it adopted the Euro as its currency? A: Estonia
Q: On 7th July 2011, the world’s first artificial organ transplant was achieved, using which artificial part of the body coated with stem cells? A: Windpipe
Q: Which country was named ‘The World’s Happiest Country’ in 2011? A: Norway
Q: Which US singer topped Forbes magazine’s annual Celebrity 100 List in May 2011? A: Lady Gaga
Q: Which English rock band released and album in March 2011 entitled ‘Build a Rocket Boys’? A: Elbow
Q: A contestant from which South American country won the 2011 ‘Miss World Contest’? A: Venezuela
Q: Which dictator returned to Haiti in January 2011, after an absence of two decades of self-imposed exile in France? A: Jean-Claude ‘Baby Doc’ Duvalier
Q: Which horse won the 2011 Grand National at Aintree? A: Ballabriggs
Q: British actress Susannah York, who died in January 2011, was nominated for an Oscar for her portrayal of Alice LeBlanc in which 1969 film? A: They Shoot Horses Don’t They?
Q: Who won the 2011 Formula One Grand Prix Championship? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: A third wedding anniversary is traditionally represented by which material? A: Leather
Q: Kurt Waldheim, U Thant, Trygvie Lie and Boutros Boutros Ghali have all held which post? A: Secretary General of the United Nations
Q: What type of animal is a Lhasa Apso? A: Dog
Q: In which year was Alaska admitted as the 49th US state? A: 1959
Q: In humans, the atlas and axis bones are found in which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: In cookery, what are ‘albondigas’? A: Meatballs
Q: School Master Thomas Gradgrind is a character in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Hard Times
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Hector’? A: Jack of Diamonds
Q: Campolina, Gidran and Monchino are breeds of which animal? A: Horse
Q: What is the name of the US writer and lecturer who wrote ‘How to Win Friends and Influence People’? A: Dale Carnegie
Q: In the Bible, what sign did God give Noah that the earth would not be flooded again? A: A rainbow
Q: In which US state is the port of Galveston? A: Texas
Q: Which 1945 film was adapted from Noel Coward’s play ‘Still Life’? A: Brief Encounter
Q: Grace Anna Goodhue was the wife of which US President? A: Calvin Coolidge
Q: The ‘Order of the Sun’ is the highest award bestowed by which South American country for notable civil and military merit? A: Peru
Q: Which fictional character has a 12-cylinder 1927 Daimler which he calls ‘Mrs Merdle’? A: Lord Peter Wimsey
Q: In which year did play first take place on the middle Sunday at Wimbledon? A: 1991
Q: BG is the international car registration for which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: According to French tradition, what is Santa Claus brother called? A: Bells Nichols
Q: What was the name of Australian tv’s ‘Crocodile Hunter”? A: Steve Irwin
Q: Roman numerals LXXXVII is what number? A: 87
Q: In medicine, ‘singultus’ is more commonly known as what type of involuntary action in humans? A: Hiccup
Q: The fictional character John Clayton is better known by what name? A: Tarzan
Q: What is the nickname of Kwame Nkrumah-Acheampong, the first Ghanian to compete in a Winter Olympic Games, in 2010? A: The Snow Leopard
Q: What is the Hebrew name for the small round cap worn by Jewish men? A: Kippah
Q: In which European city are the headquarters of the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency)? A: Vienna
Q: ‘Fidelio’ is the only opera written by which composer? A: Beethoven
Q: Actor Charles Buchinsky was better known by what name? A: Charles Bronson
Q: Who wrote the children’s book ‘The Snowman’? A: Raymond Briggs
Q: Which English rugby union team play their home games at Vicarage Road? A: Saracens
Q: The annual Latitude Music Festival takes place in which English county? A: Suffolk
Q: In Greek mythology, Pygmalion was the king of which Island? A: Cyprus
Q: Dr John Arbuthnot created which well-known cartoon character, which was used on World War I recruitment posters? A: John Bull
Q: What is the US state capital of South Dakota? A: Pierre
Q: Theo and Karl Albrecht were the original owners of which supermarket chain? A: Aldi
Q: George Cowling presented the first what on British television in 1954? A: Weather forecast
Q: Jerzy Buzek was elected Prime Minister of which European country in October 1997? A: Poland
Q: The regions of Bago, Magway and Yangon are in which Asian country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: In which year did food rationing begin in Britain? A: 1940
Q: The Ptolemies were ancient rulers of which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which US state is known as the ‘Hawkeye State’? A: Iowa
Q: Which opera did Guiseppe Verdi supposedly compose for the opening of the Suez Canal? A: Aida
Q: In the UK, who was the first female speaker of The House of Commons? A: Betty Boothroyd
Q: Cilantro is the leaf of which herb? A: Coriander
Q: In Arthurian legend, who was the faithful wife of Geraint? A: Enid
Q: What is the tune hummed by David Brent during his infamous dance routine in the UK tv series ‘The Office’? A: Disco Inferno
Q: Who performed the first successful human to human heart transplant in 1967? A: Dr Christiaan Barnard
Q: Uxoricide is the killing of who? A: One’s wife
Q: Eamon de Valera founded which political party in 1926? A: Fianna Fail
Q: What is the length of a chukka in a game of polo? A: Seven minutes
Q: The islands of Bass and Pelee lie in which of North America’s Great Lakes? A: Lake Erie
Q: In UK politics, who defeated Ted Heath in the Tory leadership campaign of 1975? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Guadalupe Island, in the Pacific Ocean, belongs to which country? A: Mexico
Q: In humans, what is the medical condition hypermetropia (or hyperopia) more commonly known as? A: Long-sightedness
Q: Which English singer commissioned a painting of the cartoon character Spongebob Squarepants for his house in 2008? A: Liam Gallagher
Q: The Bridalveil Waterfall is in which US national park? A: Yosemite
Q: What is a three-dimensional shape with 12 plane faces called? A: Dodecahedron
Q: Kitten, Spool, Wedge and Cone are all types of what? A: Heel
Q: What is the name of Alan Alda’s character in the US tv series M*A*S*H? A: Hawkeye Pierce
Q: Irish actress Mrs Dorothea Jordan was the mistress of which British monarch? A: William IV
Q: Which female singer starred as Astrid Peth in the 2007 ‘Dr Who’ Christmas special? A: Kylie Minogue
Q: During which year was Mary, Queen of Scots, executed? A: 1587
Q: What was the basic currency of Greece before the Euro? A: Drachma
Q: Which writer invented the fictional detective C. Auguste Dupin? A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: What is the name of the short-sleeved midriff-baring bodice worn under a sari? A: Choli
Q: What is the name of Earl’s band in the US tv series ‘My Name Is Earl’? A: Van Hickey
Q: Which actress married Prince Ranier III of Monaco in 1956? A: Grace Kelly
Q: What is the emblem of Canada? A: Maple Leaf
Q: Which professional golfer is known as ‘The Big Easy’? A: Ernie Els
Q: In which two US states does Monument Valley lie? A: Arizona and Utah
Q: Who directed the 2002 film ‘Minority Report’, which is set primarily in the year 2054? A: Steven Spielberg
Q: What is the first bird mentioned in the Bible? A: Raven
Q: Lake Tuz is in which European country? A: Turkey
Q: The Corbillon Cup is played for by women in which sport? A: Table tennis
Q: In the UK, ‘The Trial of the …’what’, is the procedure for ensuring that newly minted coins conform to required standards? A: Pyx
Q: English monarch King John, who died in 1216, was the youngest son of which king? A: Henry II
Q: John Patrick ‘Jack’ Ryan is a fictional character who appears in many novels by which author? A: Tom Clancy
Q: Who wrote the opera ‘The Barber of Seville’? A: Gioachino Rossini
Q: Which late actress played Elsie Tanner in the UK tv soap ‘Coronation Street’? A: Patricia Phoenix
Q: Digambara and Svetambara are the two major sects in which religion? A: Jainism
Q: Illusionist Ehrich Weiss was better known by what name? A: Harry Houdini
Q: In which country was the ancient city of Ecbatana? A: Iran
Q: What type of creature is a crappie? A: Fish
Q: What was the name of the British submarine which collided with a Swedish oil tanker in the Thames estuary in 1950, killing over 60 people? A: HMS Truculent
Q: Columbus Day is celebrated in Chile during which month of the year? A: October
Q: What is the name of the headquarters of the US Department of Defense, located in Arlington County, Virginia? A: The Pentagon
Q: The Rum Rebellion of 1808 was the only successful armed takeover of government in the history of which country? A: Australia
Q: Robert Timothy French created which type of condiment, which debuted at the St. Louis World’s Fair in 1904? A: Mustard
Q: Edeomania is an abnormal interest in which part of the body? A: Genitals
Q: In Greek mythology, musician and poet Arion was kidnapped by pirates and saved by which creatures? A: Dolphins
Q: Which US actor’s film company founded the Sundance Film Festival? A: Robert Redford
Q: Who became the youngest World Heavyweight Boxing Champion in 1956? A: Floyd Patterson
Q: In humans, dipsosis is an excessive what? A: Thirst
Q: What is the title of the 1984 film in which Bob Hoskins plays the owner of a club where Richard Gere plays the cornet? A: The Cotton Club
Q: Who was the first unseeded tennis player to win the Wimbledon Men’s Finals? A: Boris Becker
Q: Which British comedian was known as ‘The Cheeky Chappie’? A: Max Miller
Q: Portugal shares a land border with which country? A: Spain
Q: In which year was live television coverage of the Olympic Games available internationally for the first time? A: 1956
Q: Which US organisation has the motto ‘Fidelity, Bravery and Integrity’? A: FBI
Q: In Shakespeare’s ‘Much Ado About Nothing’ who does Beatrice agree to marry in the end? A: Benedick
Q: What is the head of a jellyfish called? A: The bell
Q: Which element is added to steel to make it stainless? A: Chromium
Q: Which is the smallest instrument in the flute family? A: Piccolo
Q: In religion, who traditionally sits on the Sedia Gestatoria? A: The Pope
Q: In June 1940, who was officially recognised by Britain as the ‘Leader of all free Frenchmen, wherever they may be’? A: General Charles de Gaulle
Q: What is composer Offenbach’s ‘Galop Infernal’ better known as? A: The Can Can
Q: What is the eighth sign of the Zodiac? A: Scorpio
Q: Which spirit is traditionally used to make the cocktail Mint Julep? A: Bourbon whiskey
Q: Who was the last English monarch to enter the House of Commons? A: Charles I
Q: Which two creatures are supporting the shield on the Australian coat of arms? A: Kangaroo and emu
Q: Which US First Lady had an English Springer Spaniel called Millie? A: Barbara Bush
Q: Pumpernickel is what type of foodstuff? A: Bread
Q: Who was the first presenter of UK tv’s ‘National Lottery Live’ on 19th November 1994? A: Noel Edmonds
Q: In medicine, Hansen’s Disease is more commonly known by what name? A: Leprosy
Q: Which athlete became ‘The world’s fastest man’ at the 2008 Beijing Olympics? A: Usain Bolt
Q: On which part of the body would a terai be worn? A: Head
Q: Disney’s Magic Kingdom, near Orlando, Florida, opened in which year? A: 1971
Q: Beamer, Flipper and Rabbit are terms used in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: In May 1938, which South American country withdrew from the League of Nations? A: Chile
Q: What is the cube root of 64? A: 4
Q: The islands of Falster and Bornholm are part of which European country? A: Denmark
Q: Who wrote the children’s poem ‘How the Leopard Got His Spots’? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: In which year did British monarch Queen Elizabeth II first pay Income Tax? A: 1993
Q: Which American boxer was known as ‘The Manassa Mauler’? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: Who directed the 1988 film ‘The Adventures of Baron Munchausen’? A: Terry Gilliam
Q: Which island in the Ionian Sea has the Greek name Kerkira? A: Corfu
Q: Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix and Kurt Cobain all died at what age? A: 27
Q: How many metres are in a nautical mile? A: 1852
Q: What is the world’s oldest currency still in use? A: Pound sterling
Q: Who created the comic strip ‘Blondie’, published in newspapers since 1930? A: Chic Young
Q: In the game of Scrabble, how many points is a ‘D’ tile worth? A: Two
Q: Who wrote the 1936 novel ‘Jamaica Inn’? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: What number is the title of singer Beyonceâs album, released in June 2011? A: 4
Q: What is the area dialling code for Liverpool, England? A: 0151
Q: What is the sum, in degrees, of the angles in a triangle? A: 180
Q: What is the cube root of 512? A: 8
Q: How many Wimbledon singles titles did US tennis player Billie Jean King win? A: 6
Q: How many cards are dealt to each player in a game of contract rummy? A: 11
Q: In computing, how many bits are in one byte? A: 8
Q: How may moons does the planet Mars have? A: 2
Q: How many colours are in the rainbow? A: 7
Q: What do the opposite numbers on a regular dice always add up to? A: 7
Q: How many wives did actor and film director Charlie Chaplin have? A: 4
Q: What is the title of the 1985 single by British musician Paul Hardcastle which has a strong anti-war message? A: 19
Q: Pteridology is the study of which type of plants? A: Ferns
Q: According to the Bible, what was the name of Noah’s second son? A: Ham
Q: Which type of seeds are traditionally used in a recipe for seed cake? A: Caraway seeds
Q: Scrumpy is a type of which alcoholic drink? A: Cider
Q: At which temperature do Fahrenheit and Celsius meet? A: -40 degrees
Q: The Greek national anthem has a total of how many verses (or stanzas)? A: 158
Q: Which late singer was known as the ‘Electric Poet’? A: Jim Morrison
Q: An atoll is formed by which natural substance? A: Coral
Q: Port-of-Spain is the capital of which Caribbean republic? A: Trinidad & Tobago
Q: Which famous British author used the pen name Mary Westmacott? A: Agatha Christie
Q: What are the names of Peter Rabbit’s sisters in ‘The Tale of Peter Rabbit’ by Beatrix Potter? A: Flopsy, Mopsy, Cottontail
Q: What does an anemometer measure? A: Wind speed
Q: What are the name of the veins on each side of the neck which drain blood from the head and neck to larger veins passing to the heart? A: Jugular
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Invisible Man’, published in 1897? A: H.G.Wells
Q: In June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austria-Hungary throne, was assassinated in which Bosnian province? A: Sarajevo
Q: Demophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Crowds
Q: Which band’s 2007 album is entitled ‘Send Away the Tigers’? A: Manic Street Preachers
Q: A piculet is which type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Who directed the 1987 film ‘Full Metal Jacket’? A: Stanley Kubrick
Q: King Zog was the monarch of which country? A: Albania
Q: The magazine Marie Claire was first published in 1937 in which country? A: France
Q: Bridgeport is the largest city by population in which US state? A: Connecticut
Q: In which year were women first allowed to participate in the Olympic Games? A: 1900
Q: Army Day, the memorial day for the foundation of the People’s Liberation Army, is celebrated in China during which month of the year? A: August
Q: What is the title of the film in which Joaquin Phoenix plays country music legend Johnny Cash? A: Walk the Line
Q: What do the numbers on a standard dice add up to? A: 21
Q: Digger, Plasterer and Orchid are all types of which creature? A: Bees
Q: In which year was the Sydney Harbour Bridge officially opened? A: 1932
Q: Which two countries jointly hosted the 2002 FIFA World Cup? A: South Korea and Japan
Q: Maslak is the commercial district of which European city? A: Istanbul
Q: The Sheffield Shield is competed for in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: In mathematics, whose theorem states that the square on the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle is equal in area to the sum of the squares on the other two sides? A: Pythagoras
Q: An apple seed contains which poisonous substance? A: Cyanide
Q: Kopi Luwak coffee beans, the most expensive in the world, come from the dung of which animal, after it has partially digested the berries which contain the beans? A: Civet
Q: Which English monarch was killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485? A: Richard III
Q: Habib Bourguiba became the first President of which North African country in 1957? A: Tunisia
Q: Shantung is a type of which fabric? A: Silk
Q: Which Charles Dickens novel was set during the Gordon riots? A: Barnaby Rudge
Q: In the human body, what does dermal relate to? A: The skin
Q: Billy (Blue) Cannon, Wind and Ira Bean are characters in which US tv series? A: High Chaparral
Q: Ricki Lake played the character Tracy Turnblad in which 1988 film? A: Hairspray
Q: Which date is Groundhog Day in the USA? A: February 2nd
Q: Helminthology is the study of which creatures? A: Worms
Q: Nairobi is the capital of which country? A: Kenya
Q: What is the sediment at the bottom of a wine barrel called after fermentation? A: Lees
Q: Which singer plays Chicago police officer Sharon Pogue in the 2001 film ‘Angel Eyes’? A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud was the first king of which Asian state? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: Which tennis player won the 2011 Women’s Wimbledon Championship? A: Petra Kvitova
Q: Gallipoli is in which European country? A: Turkey
Q: Which English sailor made the first solo voyage around the world by the clipper route? A: Sir Francis Chichester
Q: Blenheim Palace is in which English county? A: Oxfordshire
Q: In Greek mythology, Boreas, Eurus, Notus and Zephryus were all what? A: Winds
Q: What type of creature is a flying fox? A: Bat
Q: Enid Lyons was the first woman to be appointed to the federal cabinet in which country? A: Australia
Q: The Pieniny National Park is in which European country? A: Poland
Q: Joseph Wiseman played which James Bond villain? A: Dr Julius No
Q: In the children’s tv series, what is the name of Bob the Builder’s cat? A: Pilchard
Q: Mr Barkis, Edward Murdstone and Tommy Traddles are all characters in which Charles Dickens novel? A: David Copperfield
Q: Vladimir Kramnik became World Champion in November 2000 in which game? A: Chess
Q: What was the first product sold by Heinz in 1869? A: Horseradish
Q: Garter, Chevron, Pavilion and Windmill are all terms used in which handicraft? A: Knitting
Q: German army officer Erwin Rommel was known by what nickname? A: Desert Fox
Q: The US tv show ‘All in the Family’ was based on which British tv sitcom? A: Till Death Us Do Part
Q: The Santa Maria del Fiore cathedral is in which European city? A: Florence
Q: In which year was the Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race declared a draw because it was said that the judge was asleep under a bush as the crews passed the finish line? A: 1877
Q: What is the main ingredient of the soup shchi? A: Cabbage
Q: Effie Crockett was said to have composed which lullaby in 1886? A: Rock-a-bye-baby
Q: What was former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s maiden name? A: Roberts
Q: ‘Papaver’ is the Latin name for which flower? A: Poppy
Q: What was the first name of Russian monk Rasputin, who befriended Nicholas II and his family? A: Grigori
Q: Erythema affects which part of the human body? A: Skin
Q: What was the name of the restaurant opened by Lily Savage and Loyd Grossman in the UK tv soap ‘Brookside’? A: Grants Restaurant
Q: ‘Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf’ is the work of which American dramatist? A: Edward Albee
Q: The Nou Camp Football Stadium is in which Spanish city? A: Barcelona
Q: Equinophobia is the abnormal fear of which animals? A: Horses
Q: Who wrote the ‘Canterbury Tales’ in the 14th Century? A: Geoffrey Chaucer
Q: In which James Bond film did Rowan Atkinson make his film debut? A: Never Say Never Again
Q: What type of creature is a bitterling? A: Fish
Q: Which British musician hosts their Annual Hootenanny on television on New Year’s Eve? A: Jools Holland
Q: ‘The Thought Police’ feature in which 1949 novel? A: 1984
Q: How many medals did Germany win in the 2002 Winter Olympic Games? A: 36
Q: Who wrote the children’s story ‘The Emperor’s New Clothes’? A: Hans Christian Anderson
Q: In which castle was English monarch Henry VII born? A: Pembroke Castle
Q: What was the middle name of US Vice President Spiro Agnew? A: Theodore
Q: ‘Songs of Love’ by The Divine Comedy is the theme tune to which UK tv comedy series? A: Father Ted
Q: Split Mountain is in which US state? A: California
Q: Which Mediterranean island do Kevin and Perry holiday on in the 2000 film ‘Kevin and Perry Go Large’? A: Ibiza
Q: What is the medical term for abnormally low blood pressure? A: Hypotension
Q: Cassandra, Grizabella and Skimbleshanks are all characters in which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical? A: Cats
Q: In the game ‘Mortal Kombat’, what phrase is heard when Scorpion uses his spear? A: ‘Get over here’
Q: In video gaming, what is the name of the princess whom Mario repeatedly stops Bowser from kidnapping? A: Princess Peach
Q: What is the name of the gang member that video game ‘Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas’ revolves around? A: Carl ‘CJ’ Johnson
Q: How many square blocks is each game piece composed of in the game of ‘Tetris’? A: Four
Q: What is the name of the fictional English archaeologist in the game ‘Tomb Raider’? A: Lara Croft
Q: In the game ‘Doom’, which planet is the space marine posted to after assaulting his commanding officer? A: Mars
Q: In the computer game ‘The Sims’, how many Simoleons does each family start the game with? A: 20,000
Q: Who plays Mario Mario in the 1993 film ‘Super Mario Bros’? A: Bob Hoskins
Q: Which Playstation 2 game, released in 2003, was banned by several countries and implicated by the media in a murder, due to its graphic violence? A: Manhunt
Q: Launched in North America in 1998 Playstation game’s opening song is a Chemical Brothers remix of the Manic Street Preachers song ‘Everything Must Go’? A: Gran Turismo
Q: In video games, what colour is Pac-Man? A: Yellow
Q: ‘Black Ops’ is the subtitle of which game? A: Call of Duty
Q: Pikachu is one of the species of creatures in which series of games? A: Pokemon
Q: Jumpman’s goal is to save the Lady from the giant ape in which 1981 arcade game? A: Donkey Kong
Q: The Covenant are fictional military alien races in which game series? A: Halo
Q: Who played the title role in the 1971 film ‘Klute’? A: Donald Sutherland
Q: The Pitt Rivers Museum is in which English city? A: Oxford
Q: What is a person who makes barrels or casks called? A: Cooper
Q: Edmund Tudor, 1st Earl of Richmond and Lady Margaret Beaufort were the parents of which Engllish monarch? A: Henry VII
Q: How many planets are in our solar system have rings? A: Four
Q: Red Max, Professor Pat Pending and Blubber Bear are characters in which children’s tv series? A: Wacky Races
Q: Edouard Daladier became Prime Minister of which country in 1933? A: France
Q: On a standard dartboard, what number lies opposite 17? A: Five
Q: Which year does Michael J Fox travel back to in the 1985 film ‘Back to the Future’? A: 1955
Q: Geel is Dutch for which colour? A: Yellow
Q: Ascham, Clout and Limbs are all terms used in which sport? A: Archery
Q: Which British author and campaigner for women’s rights, born in 1880, was a pioneer of birth control? A: Marie Stopes
Q: Incheon International Airport serves which Asian city? A: Seoul
Q: The Pontipines and the Tombliboos appear in which UK children’s tv programme? A: In the Night Garden
Q: Who was Britain’s first divorced Prime Minister? A: Anthony Eden
Q: What is the name of the sea which lies between the Philippines and Borneo? A: The Sulu Sea
Q: Singer Sertab Erener won the 2003 Eurovision Song Contest for which country? A: Turkey
Q: In the Bible, what are the names of the two cities destroyed by God for their sins? A: Sodom and Gomorrah
Q: What is the name of the sharp-toothed wheel inserted into the end of a spur? A: Rowel
Q: What is name of cartoon character SpongeBob SquarePants pet snail? A: Gary
Q: British athlete Jonathan Edwards competed in which event? A: Triple jump
Q: Pico da Neblina is the highest mountain in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: Who did actress Marilyn Monroe marry in January 1954? A: Joe DiMaggio
Q: Who composed ‘Water Music’ in 1717? A: George Frederic Handel
Q: Entomomania is a compulsive fascination with which type of creatures? A: Insects
Q: Tahir Square is in which North African city? A: Cairo
Q: What is the name of the absent-minded inventor in the 1968 film ‘Chitty Chitty Bang Bang’? A: Caractacus Potts
Q: Which chemical element does ‘Li’ represent in the Periodic Table? A: Lithium
Q: Reggie, Jughead, Betty and Veronica were members of which fictional band? A: The Archies
Q: Which country is bordered by China to the north, Laos to the northwest and Cambodia to the southwest? A: Vietnam
Q: Regicide is the killing of who? A: A king
Q: Basque, Aranese and Galician are all languages spoken in which European country? A: Spain
Q: What is the name of the light porous form of solidified lava used a skin abrasive? A: Pumice
Q: A surgeon would perform brachioplasty on which part of the body? A: Arms
Q: Which is the longest motorway in Britain? A: M6
Q: Who captained the England rugby union team in the 2011 World Cup in New Zealand? A: Lewis Moody
Q: In astronomy, ‘The Big Dipper’ is another name for which constellation? A: The Plough
Q: Which World War II battle was officially known as ‘The Ardennes Offensive’? A: The Battle of the Bulge
Q: How many days are in a Leap Year? A: 366
Q: In England and Wales, what is the date of the legal birthday for someone born on 29th February? A: 1st March
Q: In which Gilbert and Sullivan opera does Frederic only count his Leap Year birthdays, so his apprenticeship would not end until he is in his eighties? A: The Pirates of Penzance
Q: English actor Joss Ackland was born on 29th February in which year? A: 1928
Q: What is it traditional for women to do on 29th February? A: Propose to men
Q: People born on 29th February have which Zodiac sign? A: Pisces
Q: Which Saint was said to have set aside 29th February as the day that women were allowed to propose to men? A: St. Patrick
Q: The Leap Year Cocktail, which consists of gin, Grand Marnier, sweet vermouth and lemon juice, was invented at which London hotel on 29th February 1928? A: Savoy Hotel
Q: February 30th was a real date in which Scandinavian country? A: Sweden
Q: The town of Anthony in which US state was known as ‘The Leap Year Capital of the World’? A: Texas
Q: In which country in the UK did it used to be considered unlucky to be born on a Leap Day? A: Scotland
Q: Babies born on 29th February are known as what? A: Leaplings
Q: Sadie Hawkins Day, usually celebrated in the US on 29th February, is named after a character in which Al Capp comic strip? A: Li’l Abner
Q: In which European country is it considered unlucky to marry on a Leap Day? A: Greece
Q: Which Roman Emperor was said to be behind the origin of the Leap Year? A: Julius Caesar
Q: In Scotland, what colour petticoat should women wear, and make sure it is partly visible, to ensure success when they propose to a man? A: Red
Q: A Leap Year occurs every how many years? A: Four
Q: Who played the role of dance instructor, Mrs Wilkinson, in the 2000 film Billy Elliot? A: Julie Walters
Q: Which famous London building was destroyed by fire in 1834? A: Houses of Parliament
Q: Which English snooker player is nicknamed ‘The Rocket’? A: Ronnie O’Sullivan
Q: Which word represents the letter ‘E’ in the NATO Phonetic Alphabet? A: Echo
Q: Who played the role of Mrs Lovett in the 2007 film ‘Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street’? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: Which island was previously named Van Dieman’s Land? A: Tasmania
Q: Late opera singer Luciano Pavarotti was born in which Italian city? A: Modena
Q: Billund Airport is in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: Which popular board game was originally called ‘Criss Cross Words’? A: Scrabble
Q: Which Asian city was previously known as Edo? A: Tokyo
Q: In medicine, dystocia is difficulty in doing what? A: Giving birth
Q: The island of Lampedusa belongs to which European country? A: Italy
Q: What was the name of Jim Carrey’s pet Jack Russell Terrier in the 1994 film ‘The Mask’? A: Milo
Q: What is the name of the Tropic which lies approximately 23.5 degrees south of the Equator and runs through Australia, Chile, Brazil and South Africa? A: Tropic of Capricorn
Q: Who was the original presenter of the UK tv show ‘Never Mind the Buzzcocks’? A: Mark Lamarr
Q: Apart from the moon, which planet in our solar system is the brightest natural object in the night sky? A: Venus
Q: Daisy, Rose and Violet are fictional sisters in which UK tv comedy series? A: Keeping Up Appearances
Q: Aquae Sulis was the Roman name for which English city? A: Bath
Q: Balestra, Derobement and Florentine are terms used in which sport? A: Fencing
Q: Who wrote the short story ‘The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner’? A: Alan Sillitoe
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Big Casino’? A: Ten of Diamonds
Q: Who was TV puppet Lenny the Lion’s human partner? A: Terry Hall
Q: Ricin is a highly toxic protein obtained from the pressed beans of which plant? A: Castor Oil Plant
Q: What is the name of the prospector in the 1999 animated film ‘Toy Story 2’? A: Stinky Pete
Q: How many points is a ‘Try’ worth in a game of rugby union? A: Five
Q: In Mary Shelley’s novel ‘Frankenstein’, what is Frankenstein’s first name? A: Victor
Q: In which London palace were Queen Victoria and Prince Albert married? A: St James’s Palace
Q: Purbeck Marble originates from which English county? A: Dorset
Q: On January 1st of which year did Spain stop using the peseta as its national currency? A: 2000
Q: Which band released the 2011 single ‘Moves Like Jagger’, featuring Christina Aguilera? A: Maroon Five
Q: which 18th Century scientist said ‘Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain, and most fools do’? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Green, Oolong, Black and Jasmine are all varieties of what? A: Tea
Q: South Africa is divided into how many provinces? A: Nine
Q: What type of creature is a wobbegong? A: Shark
Q: Which country won the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations? A: Egypt
Q: Which author created the character Tracy Beaker? A: Jacqueline Wilson
Q: Which British playwright won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2005? A: Harold Pinter
Q: In the game of darts, what score is known as ‘Not old’? A: 37
Q: What is the first name of Rene’s wife in the UK tv series ‘Allo ‘Allo!? A: Edith
Q: In June 1938, Dr Douglas Hyde was elected the first President of which European country? A: Ireland
Q: Which BBC sports commentator famously said ‘For those of you watching in black and white, Spurs are in the all-yellow strip’? A: John Motson
Q: Euphrasia is used as a herbal or homeopathic remedy for infections in which part of the body? A: Eye
Q: In which country of the UK was designer Laura Ashley born? A: Wales
Q: If something is sigmate, it is in the shape of which letter of the English alphabet? A: S
Q: On an Ordnance Survey map, what does ‘PA’ represent? A: Path
Q: Entomophobia is the irrational fear of which type of creatures? A: Insects
Q: Who became Speaker of the House of Commons in June 2009? A: John Bercow
Q: Which US Vice President had a pet Cocker Spaniel called Checkers? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Which musical instrument does Kermit the Frog play? A: Banjo
Q: Which bird is traditionally depicted delivering newborn babies? A: Stork
Q: Discretion, Prudence, Piety and Charity are all women in which 17th Century work of literature? A: The Pilgrim’s Progress
Q: In 1985, who became the first football player to be sent off during an FA Cup final? A: Kevin Moran
Q: What was a member or supporter of the Parliamentary Party called during the English Civil War? A: Roundhead
Q: What was the first name of Paddy Maguire’s wife in the UK tv series ‘Shameless’? A: Mimi
Q: What are the patterns called which are applied to the hands of Indian women using Henna? A: Mehndi
Q: ‘A little dab’ll do ya’ was the advertising slogan for which grooming product? A: Brylcreem
Q: Who wrote the 1885 novel ‘King Solomon’s Mines’? A: H. Rider Haggard
Q: The meadow flower ‘Ranunculus acris’ is better known by what name? A: Buttercup
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the Rastafari religion? A: Lion
Q: How many inches are in an imperial mile? A: 63360
Q: How many times has jockey Richard Dunwoody won the English Grand National? A: Twice
Q: What is the name of the spirit who serves Prospero in Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’? A: Ariel
Q: Who is considered to be the founder of the modern method of freezing food? A: Clarence Birdseye
Q: What was the name of the airship that burst into flames at Lakenhurst Naval Station, New Jersey in 1937? A: Hindenburg
Q: Which US fictional private eye calls his gun ‘Betsy’? A: Mike Hammer
Q: In Greek mythology, what was Arachne turned into after beating Athena in a weaving contest? A: Spider
Q: The legend of ‘Lohengrin’ comes from which European country? A: Germany
Q: Which British poet had a relationship with Fanny Brawne? A: John Keats
Q: What type of gas was used by the Germans against the French for the first time, at the Second Battle of Ypres in 1915? A: Chlorine
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Tess of the D’Urbervilles’? A: Thomas Hardy
Q: Butt, Barrel and Butterfly are all types of what? A: Hinge
Q: The perfume L’Interdit by Givenchy was created in 1957 for which actress? A: Audrey Hepburn
Q: ‘Viernes’ is Spanish for which day of the week? A: Friday
Q: Who starred as mathematician John Nash in the 2001 film ‘A Beautiful Mind’? A: Russell Crowe
Q: What is the first day of Lent called? A: Ash Wednesday
Q: Which is the second largest state in the US? A: Texas
Q: The ‘Brabazon Course’ is the main tournament course of which British golf resort? A: The Belfry
Q: The Clee hills are in which English county? A: Shropshire
Q: What does ‘Habeas corpus’ translate to in English? A: You have the body
Q: Which men’s sport was transferred permanently from the Summer Olympics to the Winter Olympic Games from 1924? A: Ice hockey
Q: In 1930, Australian cricketer Don Bradman scored a world record how many runs in 415 minutes at Sydney Cricket Ground? A: 452
Q: The dairy product ‘Skyr’ originated in which country? A: Iceland
Q: What is the name of comic hero Desperate Dan’s pet dog? A: Dawg
Q: The cocktail ‘Death in the Afternoon’, consisting of Absinthe and Champagne, was invented by which American author? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: Cavendish, Orinoco and Lady Finger are all varieties of which fruit? A: Banana
Q: The two small pieces of dark meat at the back of poultry near the thigh are commonly known by what name? A: Oysters
Q: According to the Bible, which fruit was Moses told by God must be worn on the hem of the robes for ministering service? A: Pomegranates
Q: Lactuca Sativa is the Latin name for which common vegetable? A: Lettuce
Q: Halloumi cheese originated on which Mediterranean island? A: Cyprus
Q: Traditionally made in Mexico, ‘bolillo’ is a type of what? A: Bread
Q: What was the boot made of which actor Charlie Chaplin ate in the 1925 film ‘The Gold Rush’? A: Licorice
Q: What is the favourite food of fictional characters Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles? A: Pizza
Q: Which dessert is also known as ‘Tuscan Trifle’? A: Tiramisu
Q: ‘The Dream of Gerontius’ is the 1900 work of which English composer? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Who played Davy Crockett in the 1960 film ‘The Alamo’? A: John Wayne
Q: Which 18th Century author wrote ‘Clarissa’ (or ‘The History of a Young Lady), said to be the longest novel in the English language? A: Samuel Richardson
Q: In 1951, Jean Lee was the last woman to be executed in which country? A: Australia
Q: Which country singer was known as ‘The Man in Black’? A: Johnny Cash
Q: The Rimac River is in which South American country? A: Peru
Q: Which British Prime Minister declared ‘Peace in our time’ in September 1938? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: Which fictional TV family had pets called Spot, Igor and Kitty? A: The Munsters
Q: Which part of the body does a cariogenic affect? A: Teeth
Q: Which BBC Radio 2 host includes ‘The Tracks of My Years’ in his weekday programme? A: Ken Bruce
Q: In Sikhism, what is the practice of allowing one’s hair to grow naturally, as a symbol of respect for the perfection of God’s creation? A: Kesh
Q: In humans, glossitis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Tongue
Q: The Coco Cola prototype recipe was formulated in a drugstore in which US state? A: Georgia
Q: Tuber melanosporum is a variety of which luxury food? A: Truffle
Q: Which female swimmer won six Olympic Gold Medals for East Germany in 1988? A: Kristin Otto
Q: In which Scottish city is the Robert Gordon University? A: Aberdeen
Q: The Davis Cup is a challenge trophy contested by men in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: How many stars are on the national flag of Turkey? A: One
Q: Which artist said ‘Everything you can imagine is real’? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Which animal is known as the ‘Earth Pig’? A: Aardvark
Q: The ‘Pastry War’ of 1838 was an invasion of which country by France, after a French pastrycook accused local officers of looting his shop? A: Mexico
Q: What is the national flower of South Africa? A: Protea
Q: Meles Zenawi became Prime Minister of which country in 1995? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Burgos Cathedral is in which European country? A: Spain
Q: Which champion racehorse, who died in 1932, was sometimes referred to as ‘Australia’s Wonder Horse’? A: Phar Lap
Q: Mountjoy Prison is in which European city? A: Dublin
Q: What colour are post/mail boxes in Morocco? A: Yellow
Q: Napoleon and Snowball appear in which 1945 novel? A: Animal Farm
Q: What is the US state capital of Illinois? A: Springfield
Q: Renaissance astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus was born in which modern-day European country? A: Poland
Q: Actor Sid James played the character Sid Boggle in which ‘Carry On’ film? A: Carry On Camping
Q: What is the basic currency in Greenland? A: Krone
Q: Nefertiti was the wife of which Egyptian Pharaoh? A: Akhenaten
Q: Which country has the internet domain .fi? A: Finland
Q: What was the first name of Roget, the compiler of the first ‘Roget’s Thesaurus’? A: Peter
Q: In which 1974 and 2003 films does the character ‘Leatherface’ appear? A: The Texas Chainsaw Massacre
Q: Campanology is the study and art of what? A: Bell ringing
Q: Who was former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s Chief Press Secretary? A: Bernard Ingham
Q: Which South American country has borders with all other South American countries apart from Ecuador and Chile? A: Brazil
Q: Fanny Price is the main character in which Jane Austen novel? A: Mansfield Park
Q: Which 1980 film, starring Kris Kristofferson, and generally considered the biggest flop in cinema history contributed to the bankruptcy of United Artists? A: Heaven’s Gate
Q: The Russian seaport Novorossiysk lies on which body of water? A: Black Sea
Q: Jock, Trusty, Toughy and Pedro are all characters in which Disney film? A: Lady and the Tramp
Q: Who led the 1381 Peasants Revolt in the UK, with Jack Straw, John Ball and others, and was stabbed to death by the Lord Mayor of London? A: Wat Tyler
Q: A hangover cure, made traditionally with raw, egg, Worcestershire Sauce and seasoning, is known as a ‘Prairie….what’? A: Oyster
Q: To win a gold disc, how many copies of an album needs to sell in Britain? A: 100,000
Q: Who composed the opera ‘Madame Butterfly’? A: Giacomo Puccini
Q: What is the title of the United States of America National Anthem? A: The Star-Spangled Banner
Q: What is the last note on a standard keyboard? A: C
Q: Who wrote ‘Doe Eyes’, the theme to the 1995 film ‘The Bridges of Madison County’? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: What does Franz Schubert’s ‘Die Forelle’ translate to in English? A: The Trout
Q: Who was the last member of The Beatles to marry? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Who designed the Telecaster and Stratocaster guitars? A: Leo Fender
Q: What is the lowest female singing voice? A: Contralto
Q: Who played Lorry Jones/Laura Lorraine in the 1944 musical film ‘Pin Up Girl’? A: Betty Grable
Q: The 2006 film ‘Once’, starring Glen Hansard as a busker, is set in which European city? A: Dublin
Q: Former Spice Girl Melanie Chisholm dueted with which Canadian singer-songwriter on the 1998 single ‘When You’re Gone’? A: Bryan Adams
Q: The 2011 album ‘The King of Limbs’ was released by which English rock band? A: Radiohead
Q: In 1889 which American inventor devised the first flexible transparent film suitable for motion pictures? A: George Eastman
Q: What is the first part of the Jewish Bible called, which refers to the first five books of Moses? A: The Torah
Q: A halophyte is a plant that grows in what type of conditions? A: Saline
Q: Which author wrote the book ‘The Firm’, ‘The Pelican Brief’ and ‘The Rainmaker’? A: John Grisham
Q: In humans, emesis is more commonly known as what? A: Vomiting
Q: In which 1932 film does Greta Garbo say the line ‘I want to be alone’? A: Grand Hotel
Q: What name is given to an ornamental, usually coloured, design made of small pieces of hard material such as stone, tile or glass? A: Mosaic
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa? A: Louis Botha
Q: A bronze medal is traditionally awarded for which place in a competition or race? A: Third
Q: Which spirit is traditionally used to make a Tom Collins cocktail? A: Gin
Q: Which English singer/songwriter released a 2010 album entitled ‘Lights’? A: Ellie Goulding
Q: Which French king was known as ‘The Quarrelsome’ (Le Hutin)? A: Louis X
Q: In a rugby union team, what number does the fly half wear on their shirt? A: 10
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Ad astra’ translate to in English? A: To the stars
Q: What is the square root of 225? A: 15
Q: What is a baby skunk called? A: A kit
Q: ‘Coach’ is a brand name for which fashion items? A: Handbags
Q: Misr is the local name for which North African country? A: Egypt
Q: What is the first name of Mr Darcy in the 2001 film ‘Bridget Jones’s Diary’? A: Mark
Q: A ladder-back is a type of what? A: Chair
Q: Which river runs past Balmoral Castle in Scotland? A: River Dee
Q: A moa was what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Hafnia was the Latin name for which Danish city? A: Copenhagen
Q: Who did Venus Williams defeat in the 2000 Ladies Singles Finals at Wimbledon? A: Lindsay Davenport
Q: Which two actors play the fire-fighting McCaffrey brothers in the 1991 film ‘Backdraft’? A: Kurt Russell and William Baldwin
Q: Omar Suleiman was the Vice President of which African country? A: Egypt
Q: Ergasiomania is the obsessive need to do what? A: Work
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the beautiful youth loved by Aphrodite? A: Adonis
Q: Who became the first female muslim cabinet minister in the British government? A: Baroness Sayeeda Warsi
Q: The Cerrado is a tropical savanna ecoregion in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: The Yom Kippur War, or October War, took place during which year? A: 1973
Q: An antipyretic drug reduces what in humans? A: Fever
Q: In the novel ‘Jane Eyre’ by Charlotte Bronte, what is the name of Mr Rochester’s home? A: Thornfield Hall
Q: On a mobile phone keypad, the letters ‘MNO’ are on which number button? A: 6
Q: The Bank of England was established during the reign of which British monarch? A: William III
Q: Which fraternal organisation has a square and compasses, with or without a letter ‘G’, as its logo? A: Freemasons
Q: How many hoops are in a game of association croquet? A: Six
Q: The 17th Century ‘Meal Tub Plot’ was against which future king of England? A: James II
Q: The ram represents which sign of the Zodiac? A: Aries
Q: What does a cordwainer make? A: Shoes
Q: In British politics, who was described as ‘The Chingford Skinhead’? A: Norman Tebbit
Q: ‘Mehefin’ is Welsh for which month of the year? A: June
Q: What type of creature is a quelea? A: Bird
Q: The island of Feurteventura lies in which body of water? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: Douglas, Fraser and Noble are all which type of tree? A: Fir
Q: A Rockhopper is what type of bird? A: Penguin
Q: Braeburn is a variety of which type of fruit? A: Apple
Q: ‘Cuneiform’ relates to which shape? A: Wedge
Q: In humans, hirsutism is an overabundance of what? A: Hair
Q: Porphyrophobia is the irrational fear of which colour? A: Purple
Q: What is the 17th letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Rho
Q: Bezique is a card game for how many players? A: Two
Q: Which singer was born Gloria Fowles in September 1948? A: Gloria Gaynor
Q: Donatien Alphonse Francois were the first names of which French aristocrat, born in 1740? A: Marquis de Sade
Q: A Skipjack is which type of fish? A: Tuna
Q: Who is the Greek God of wine? A: Dionysus
Q: What is the title of the only film for which actor John Wayne won an Oscar? A: True Grit
Q: Who designed the Luftwaffe’s Bf-109 fighter plane? A: Willy Messerschmitt
Q: Which metal is obtained from the ore cinnabar? A: Mercury
Q: Who played Richard Hillman in the British tv soap ‘Coronation Street’? A: Brian Capron
Q: Giacomo Agostini was seven times world champion between 1966 and 1972 in which sport? A: Motorcycling
Q: What is the first name of Goldfinger in the 1964 James Bond film ‘Goldfinger’? A: Auric
Q: Which heavyweight boxer won a gold medal in the 1964 Olympic Games? A: Joe Frazier
Q: Cosmo Smallpiece was a character played by which English comedian? A: Les Dawson
Q: Vladimir and Estragon are characters from which Samuel Beckett play? A: Waiting for Godot
Q: In humans, what is the name of the fibrous protein found in the outer layer of the skin and is a major constituent of hair and nails? A: Keratin
Q: What is the capital of Hungary? A: Budapest
Q: The Jack Adams Award is a prize given to a team coach in which sport? A: Ice Hockey
Q: Which US author said ‘ Habit is not to be thrown out of the window, but it is to be coaxed down the stairs one step at a time’? A: Mark Twain
Q: The UK’s first mobile phone call, in 1985, was across which network? A: Vodaphone
Q: Which two countries joined the European Union on 1st January 2007? A: Romania and Bulgaria
Q: On which side of the road do motorists drive in Japan? A: Left
Q: Boo, Randall Boggs and Celia Mae are all characters in which 2001 animated film? A: Monsters Inc.
Q: Who wrote the 1855 epic poem ‘The Song of Hiawatha’? A: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Q: Who played King Louis XIV of France and his twin brother Philippe in the 1977 film ‘The Man in the Iron Mask’? A: Richard Chamberlain
Q: Who was the first British reigning monarch to visit Australia? A: Queen Elizabeth II
Q: In cookery, what is the mixture of fat (usually butter) and flour called, used in making sauces? A: Roux
Q: Who was the captain of Brazil’s national football team when they won the 1970 FIFA World Cup? A: Carlos Alberto
Q: Lake Geneva (or Lake Leman) lies in which two countries? A: France and Switzerland
Q: Decompression Sickness in SCUBA divers is more commonly known by what name? A: The bends
Q: In the US, Black Friday occurs during which month of the year? A: November
Q: How many numbered boxes are there at the beginning of a game of UK tv’s ‘Deal or No Deal’? A: 22
Q: A cottage pie is traditionally made with with meat? A: Minced beef
Q: In the Classic Edition of the board game Trivial Pursuit, what colour is the category for history? A: Yellow
Q: In the game of Monopoly, what is the name of the character on the board who is locked behind bars? A: Jake the Jailbird
Q: The ‘Autobots’ and the ‘Decepticons’ are the main factions of which toy line? A: Transformers
Q: What is the name of the male, well-muscled, blond, swimming trunk wearing, gel-filled rubber action figure, first introduced in 1976 by Kenner? A: Stretch Armstrong
Q: The construction toy ‘Lego’ was originally designed in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: Which Denys Fisher geometric, plastic drawing toy produces mathematical curves of the variety technically known as hypotrochoids and epitrochoids? A: Spirograph
Q: Which line of dolls, created by American art student Xavier Roberts in 1978, was originally called ‘Little People’? A: Cabbage Patch Kids
Q: Which executive toy, named after an English physicist and mathematician, demonstrates conservation of momentum and energy via a series of swinging spheres? A: Newton’s Cradle
Q: How many circles, on which players have to put their hand or foot, are on the mat in a game of ‘Twister’? A: 24
Q: What is the name of the perpetual murder victim in the English version of ‘Cleudo’? A: Dr Black
Q: What is the name of the British board game which has Treasure Island in the centre of the board, upon which is placed realistic looking treasure, such as diamonds, rubies and pearls? A: Buccaneer
Q: How many wooden blocks are in a traditional game of ‘Jenga’? A: 54
Q: What is the name of the 1995 film about a supernatural board game, starring Robin Williams and Kirsten Dunst? A: Jumanji
Q: A score of 4 is for which part of the body in a game of ‘Beetle’? A: Wing
Q: What is the name of the electronic game which has four coloured buttons, which light up in random order, each producing it’s own tune when pressed, or activated by the device? A: Simon
Q: What is the title of the 1971 film in which Clint Eastwood plays DJ Dave Garver? A: Play Misty For Me
Q: Who wrote the poem ‘Funeral Blues’ (Stop All the Clocks)? A: W.H.Auden
Q: Phan Xi Pang is the highest mountain in which country? A: Vietnam
Q: Red Connors is the sidekick of which fictional Wild West hero? A: Hopalong Cassidy
Q: On a standard dartboard, what number lies between 2 and 10? A: 15
Q: What relation was German-born British painter Lucian Freud to Austrian neurologist Sigmund Freud? A: Grandson
Q: Saqqara is an ancient burial site in which country? A: Egypt
Q: What is the medical term for the condition in which one or both of the testes fail to descend from the abdomen to the scrotum? A: Cryptorchidism
Q: Which English model was married to musicians George Harrison and Eric Clapton? A: Pattie Boyd
Q: A sallet, part of Medieval armour, was worn on which part of the body? A: Head
Q: Banana cut, Dingle and Swingman are terms used in which sport? A: Basketball
Q: In the game of Scrabble, the ‘M’ tile is worth how many points? A: 3
Q: Which film won the Oscar for Best Picture at the 2011 Academy Awards? A: The King’s Speech
Q: A ‘Scouser’ is a native of which English city? A: Liverpool
Q: The volcanic rock Kimberlite is best known for sometimes containing which gemstone? A: Diamond
Q: Perkin, Posie and Pootle were characters in which children’s tv programme? A: The Flumps
Q: Logan International Airport serves which US city? A: Boston
Q: What type of animal is a karakul? A: Sheep
Q: Who developed bifocal spectacles in 1784? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Myelitis is the inflammation of which part of the human body? A: Spinal cord
Q: In the 1994 film ‘Speed’ starring Keanu Reeves, what speed must the bus not fall below? A: 50 Miles per hour
Q: Which British singer released a 1972 album entitled ‘Blondes Have More Fun’? A: Rod Stewart
Q: In which part of the human body would you find the obturator muscles? A: Pelvis
Q: In horse racing, during which month is the Cheltenham Cup run? A: March
Q: Which British explorer arrived in Tahiti in 1769? A: Captain James Cook
Q: Who played the title role in the 1975 film ‘Barry Lyndon’? A: Ryan O’Neal
Q: In 1907, which ill-fated liner of the Cunard Line made its maiden voyage? A: RMS Lusitania
Q: Aravind Adiga’s novel ‘The White Tiger’ won which prestigious award in 2008? A: The Man Booker Prize
Q: NaCl is the chemical compound of which common substance? A: Salt (Sodium Chloride)
Q: Which actress played the role of identical twins, Susan and Sharon, in the 1961 film ‘The Parent Trap’? A: Hayley Mills
Q: The Big Muddy River in Southern Illinois joins which other river? A: Mississippi River
Q: Marie Antoinette was married to which French King? A: Louis XVI
Q: The drug ‘Reyataz’ is used for treating which medical condition? A: HIV
Q: Who was replaced by Sid Vicious as bassist in the punk rock band The Sex Pistols? A: Glen Matlock
Q: Which singer released the single ‘Lonely’ in 2005? A: Akon
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the nymph who was pursued by Apollo and transformed by the gods into a laurel bush? A: Daphne
Q: In botany, what is the decay-resistant outer coating of a pollen grain or spore called? A: Exine
Q: Actor Nicholas Cage plays gun-runner Yuri Orlov in which 2005 film? A: Lord of War
Q: The first Stock-Exchange in America was founded in which city? A: Philadelphia
Q: Which 18th Century scientist and politician invented a glass harmonica (or ‘armonica) in 1761? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: British tv ‘Dragon’ Theo Paphitis was the chairman of which London football club for eight years until 2006? A: Millwall
Q: Which two mainland European countries compete in the Six Nations Rugby Tournament? A: France and Italy
Q: Which US city is the setting for the 1987 film ‘Robocop’? A: Detroit
Q: The Karoo is a semi-desert region of which country? A: South Africa
Q: In the human body, the pollex is which part of the hand? A: Thumb
Q: Which Austrian composer wrote the music for the German National Anthem? A: Franz Joseph Haydn
Q: Muharram is the first month in which religious calender? A: Islamic
Q: A Scotch Argus is what type of creature? A: Butterfly
Q: How many edges does a cube have? A: 12
Q: According to the Bible, Ham was the second son of who? A: Noah
Q: Oscar Wilde wrote about which English prison? A: Reading
Q: What is the national summer sport of Canada? A: Lacrosse
Q: Stone Mountain Park is in which US state? A: Georgia
Q: The substance propolis is also known as ‘what’ glue? A: Bee
Q: Which German-born physicist was awarded the 1921 Nobel Prize for Physics? A: Albert Einstein
Q: Which river in Australia does the Narrows Bridge cross? A: The Swan River
Q: Los Pumas is the nickname of which country’s national rugby union team? A: Argentina
Q: Joe Pesci, Robert De Niro and Ray Liotta played gangsters in which 1990 film? A: Goodfellas
Q: The resort town of Whistler is in which Canadian province? A: British Columbia
Q: Which member of The Beatles appeared in a Japanese TV commercial for an apple drink? A: Ringo Starr
Q: Who played Bubble in the UK tv comedy series ‘Absolutely Fabulous’? A: Jane Horrocks
Q: Who invented the Miner’s Safety Lamp? A: Humphry Davy
Q: Markswoman and entertainer Phoebe Anne Mozee (or Moses) was better known by what name? A: Annie Oakley
Q: What was the name of the clothes shop opened by Mary Quant on London’s King’s Road in 1955? A: Bazaar
Q: In 1958, who became the youngest footballer, at age 17, to play in a World Cup? A: Pele
Q: In which African country is Lake George? A: Uganda
Q: What is the name of the colliery in the 1939 film ‘The Stars Look Down’? A: Neptune Colliery
Q: Who was the longest-serving Australian Prime Minister? A: Sir Robert Menzies
Q: What is the name of Peter Perfect’s car in the children’s tv cartoon series ‘Wacky Races’? A: Turbo Terrific
Q: What was the former name of the Vietnamese city of Ho Chi Min? A: Saigon
Q: ‘Do not go gentle into that good night…..Rage, rage against the dying of the light’  is from a poem by which British poet? A: Dylan Thomas
Q: In Greek mythology, who unwittingly became the wife of her son Oedipus, and hanged herself when the relationship was discovered? A: Jocasta
Q: Who wrote the thriller novel ‘Birds of Prey’? A: Wilbur Smith
Q: The 1999 film ’10 Things I Hate About You’ is based on which Shakespeare play? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: Which American comedian always ended his CBS variety show with the phrase ‘Say goodnight, Gracie’? A: George Burns
Q: Who wrote the children’s series of ‘Mr Men’ books? A: Roger Hargreaves
Q: Eisoptrophobia is the irrational fear of which household items? A: Mirrors
Q: Who played Mike Young in the Australian tv soap ‘Neighbours’? A: Guy Pearce
Q: The plant ‘Helianthus Annuus’ is more commonly known by what name? A: Sunflower
Q: A probang is used to remove an object from, or apply medication to, which part of the body? A: Throat
Q: In religion, which King is referred to as the ‘Conquering Lion of the Tribe of Judah’? A: Haile Selassie I
Q: In Shakespeare’s ‘Othello’, what is the name of Othello’s wife? A: Desdemona
Q: ‘Albrecht Discount’ supermarket is better known by what name? A: Aldi
Q: The Manacle Rocks lie off the coast of which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: The Forint is the basic monetary unit of which European country? A: Hungary
Q: Abuja is the capital of which West African republic? A: Nigeria
Q: What type of bird is a pochard? A: Duck
Q: Who wrote the children’s novel ‘Mary Poppins’? A: P.L. Travers
Q: What was English author Graham Greene’s first name? A: Henry
Q: ‘Pap’ is the town’s vagrant drunkard father of which fictional character created by Mark Twain? A: Huckleberry Finn
Q: Who wrote ‘The Hitch-hiker’s Guide to the Galaxy’? A: Douglas Adams
Q: ‘Brick Lane’ by Monica Ali is set in which London borough? A: Tower Hamlets
Q: Which British illustrator who illustrated the gift book of Peter Pan, was known for her cute drawings of children based on her daughter Peggy? A: Mabel Lucie Atwell
Q: In the Paddington Bear books by Michael Bond, Mr. Gruber owns an antique shop in which London road? A: Portobello Road
Q: Which female, London-born author has younger brothers, rapper and comedian Doc Brown and rapper Luc Skyz? A: Zadie Smith
Q: ‘The Boarding House’, ‘Two Gallants’ and ‘Eveline’ are short stories from which James Joyce novel? A: Dubliners
Q: Thomas Keneally, author of ‘Schindler’s Ark’ was born in which country? A: Australia
Q: What were the first names of dramatist, poet and literary critic T.S.Eliot? A: Thomas Stearns
Q: Catherine Barkley, Helen Ferguson and Rinaldi are all characters in which World War I novel by Ernest Hemingway? A: A Farewell to Arms
Q: Which US author won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1962? A: John Steinbeck
Q: Eveline Hanska was married to which French novelist? A: Honore de Balzac
Q: Prince Lev Nikolaevich Myshkin was created by which author? A: Fydor Dostoyevsky
Q: Which American author, born in 1892, whose novels include ‘The Good Earth’, is also known by her Chinese name Sai Zhenzhu? A: Pearl S. Buck
Q: Doramania is an obsession with what? A: Fur
Q: Who won the 2008 Men’s Singles Final at Wimbledon? A: Rafael Nadal
Q: What is the name of the blind beggar in the novel ‘Treasure Island’ by Robert Louis Stevenson? A: Pew
Q: Which modern-day country was previously known as Mesopotamia? A: Iraq
Q: Ovine relates to which animal? A: Sheep
Q: What is golfer Tiger Woods first name? A: Eldrick
Q: The 2010 charity single ‘Helping Haiti’ is a cover of which REM song? A: Everybody Hurts
Q: Which chess piece is in the shape of a horse’s head? A: Knight
Q: If something is ‘septennial’, it lasts or recurs every how many years? A: Seven
Q: ‘The fault…….is not in our stars, but in ourselves…’ is a quote from which play by William Shakespeare? A: Julius Caesar
Q: What is the official language of Austria? A: German
Q: Who became governor of The Bank of England in July 2003? A: Sir Mervyn King
Q: James Bond is sent to which island at the beginning of the film ‘Dr No’? A: Jamaica
Q: What is the colour of the rose that is the historic symbol of the House of York? A: White
Q: What is the collective name for a group of trout? A: Hover
Q: Which British Prime Minister was famous for playing the organ? A: Edward Heath
Q: Actor Russelll Crowe was born in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: In the Bible, which modern-day country is referred to as ‘The land of milk and honey’? A: Israel
Q: ‘The Harlot’s Progress’ is a series of paintings and engravings by which 18th Century English painter? A: William Hogarth
Q: ‘Gooners’ are supporters of which London football club? A: Arsenal
Q: ‘Moab is My Washpot’ is an autobiography by which British actor and television presenter? A: Stephen Fry
Q: Which British Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced a Supertax (or Surtax) for the very rich? A: David Lloyd George
Q: Who became quizmaster of the BBC’s ‘University Challenge’ in 1994? A: Jeremy Paxman
Q: What is the name of the girlfriend of cartoon character Donald Duck? A: Daisy Duck
Q: What was the name of the horse on which jockey Richard Dunwoody won the 1986 Grand National? A: West Tip
Q: Which spirit is traditionally used to make a Sazarac cocktail? A: Rye Whiskey
Q: In human anatomy, the ‘sinciput’ forms which part of the body? A: Skull
Q: Which religious reformer and theologian appeared before the ‘Diet of Worms’ in Germany in 1521? A: Martin Luther
Q: Which cathedral contains the tomb of English monarch Edward II? A: Gloucester Cathedral
Q: Poland, Russia, Sweden, Latvia, Germany and Finland all have a border on which body of water? A: Baltic Sea
Q: Poet Wendy Cope wrote ‘Making Cocoa For……’who’? A: Kingsley Amis
Q: The ‘Osborne Bull’ is the unofficial national symbol of which European country? A: Spain
Q: In French cookery, what is the main ingredient of an ‘Amandine’ sauce? A: Almonds
Q: What is the surname of the family in the tv series ‘Bonanza’? A: Cartwright
Q: In Greek mythology, sisters Stheno, Euryale and Medusa were the three what? A: Gorgons
Q: Rhythm and Blues musician and vocalist Ellas Otha Bates was better known by what name? A: Bo Diddley
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Dirty Knees’ represents which number? A: 33
Q: William the Conqueror was Duke of which region of France from 1035 until his death? A: Normandy
Q: In Irish mythology, what is a ‘Pooka’ (or Puca)? A: Goblin
Q: Who plays Malcolm Tucker in the BBC comedy series ‘The Thick Of It’, which satirises the British modern government? A: Peter Capaldi
Q: The Cordoba is the basic monetary unit of which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: Phobos and Diemos are the moons of which planet in our solar system? A: Mars
Q: Which English author wrote the ‘Swallows and Amazons’ series of children’s books? A: Arthur Ransome
Q: Cynology is the study of which animals? A: Dogs
Q: What is a ‘billets-doux’ in Engllish? A: Love letter
Q: In the human body, which bone connects the humerus with the clavicle? A: Scapula (shoulder blade)
Q: The Flinders Mountain Range is in which country? A: Australia
Q: Edgar, Berlioz and Billy Boss are all characters in which animated Disney film? A: The Aristocats
Q: In the game of darts, what is the maximum score that can be achieved in one throw of three darts? A: 180
Q: The infamous Insein Prison is in which Asian country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: Hepatitis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Liver
Q: Which US singer released a 1962 album entitled ‘Pot Luck’? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Which car manufacturer is named after the Latin translation of the founder’s surname, Horch? A: Audi
Q: Who wrote the short story ‘Rip Van Winkle’, published in 1819? A: Washington Irving
Q: The medical condition anhidrosis is the inability to do what? A: Sweat
Q: Which English Rugby Union team play their home games at Welford Road? A: Leicester Tigers
Q: Who founded the British Union of Fascists in 1932? A: Sir Oswald Mosley
Q: In the Bible, what are the first three words of Genesis? A: In the beginning
Q: In the human body, erythrophobia is the abnormal fear of doing what? A: Blushing
Q: ‘Jeudi’ is French for which day of the week? A: Thursday
Q: Brazil is made up of how many states? A: 26
Q: Which US singer had hits with ‘Crazy in Love’ and ‘Baby Boy’? A: Beyonce Knowles
Q: Which heavyweight boxing champion retired in April 1956 without losing a professional boxing match? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: Which composer wrote the music for the ballet ‘Mother Goose’ in 1910? A: Maurice Ravel
Q: What is the official language of the Dominican Republic? A: Spanish
Q: A megrim is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: How many fluid ounces are in one quarter of an imperial pint? A: Five
Q: What is the name of the literary magazine launched by Francis Ford Coppola in 1997? A: Zoetrope
Q: In British history, how many Tolpuddle Martyrs were there? A: Six
Q: The Schonbrunn Palace is in which European city? A: Vienna
Q: Who played the role of ballerina Victoria Page in the 1948 film ‘The Red Shoes’? A: Moira Shearer
Q: ‘Homage to Catalonia’ was written by which British author? A: George Orwell
Q: Austrian-born Hermann Maier is a former world champion in which sport? A: Skiing
Q: In which year did Oliver Cromwell become Lord Protector? A: 1653
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Ab hinc’ translate to in English? A: From here on
Q: Who played Will Hunting in the 1997 film ‘Good Will Hunting’? A: Matt Damon
Q: In the UK television game show ‘The Exit List’, how many rooms are there altogether? A: 26
Q: What was the name of the German artist who painted ‘Washington Crossing the Delaware’ in 1851? A: Emanuel Leutze
Q: Who played Blott in the 1985 British tv comedy series ‘Blott on the Landscape’? A: David Suchet
Q: The 1987 film ‘Roxanne’ was adapted by actor Steve Martin from which Edmond Rostand play? A: Cyrano de Bergerac
Q: What is the capital of the Northern Cape Province in South Africa? A: Kimberley
Q: ‘The River of Woe’ is the nickname of which Underworld river in Greek mythology? A: Acheron
Q: The famous Cobblers Cove Hotel is on which Caribbean island? A: Barbados
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Canada from 1980 to 1984? A: Pierre Trudeau
Q: What is the title of singer Beyonce’s album, released in June 2011? A: 4
Q: The ‘Speedmaster’, also known as the ‘Moonwatch’, is produced by which watch-making company? A: Omega
Q: Which Olympic event is Ben Ainslie famous for competing in? A: Sailing
Q: The book entitled ‘The Fake’s Progress’ is about which infamous English art forger? A: Tom Keating
Q: What is the capital of Liberia? A: Monrovia
Q: Which actor starred opposite Claire Bloom in the 1952 film ‘Limelight’? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: In the UK, what is the name of the pedestrian crossing with traffic lights which only go green again when no more pedestrians are detected on the crossing? A: Puffin Crossing
Q: First developed by John Salk, the vaccine for which childhood illness was first tested in 1952? A: Poliomyelitis
Q: What age was Queen Elizabeth II at her coronation in 1953? A: 27
Q: In 1953, Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first men to reach the summit of which mountain? A: Everest
Q: What was the name of the 42 year old African-American who became famous for refusing to give her seat up to a white bus passenger in Alabama in 1955? A: Rosa Parks
Q: Who became Prime Minister of Cuba in 1959? A: Fidel Castro
Q: The first credit card charge, using which credit card, was made in February 1950 at Major’s Cabin Grill in New York? A: Diners Club
Q: What was Elvis Presley’s first number one hit single, released in January 1956? A: Heartbreak Hotel
Q: In 1954, which British athlete broke the Four Minute Mile? A: Roger Bannister
Q: In which US state did the first Disney theme park open in 1955? A: California
Q: Which US actor, who appeared in the film ‘East of Eden’, died in a car accident in 1955? A: James Dean
Q: What type of animal was Laika, who was the first living animal to orbit the Earth in Sputnik 2, launched by Russia? A: Dog
Q: Which film, starring Yul Brynner and Deborah Kerr, was released in June 1956? A: The King and I
Q: Born on 20th July 1956, who was the original drummer in the punk rock band The Sex Pistols? A: Paul Cook
Q: Invented by Dr David Warren in the 1950’s, what is the ‘Flight Data Recorder’ better known as? A: The ‘Black Box’
Q: Named after her daughter, Ruth Handler invented which doll in 1959? A: Barbie
Q: Who wrote the 1934 novel ‘I, Claudius’? A: Robert Graves
Q: Who played Dorothy Zbornak in the US tv show ‘The Golden Girls’? A: Bea Arthur
Q: Who became Chancellor of West Germany in 1969? A: Willy Brandt
Q: What was the title of the 2006 Christmas episode of BBC tv’s ‘Doctor Who’? A: The Runaway Bride
Q: Which former US President had a pet Labrador Retriever called Buddy? A: Bill Clinton
Q: Who played Jenna Wade in the US tv series ‘Dallas’? A: Priscilla Presley
Q: What is the name of the small town in Australia which is famous for outlaw Ned Kelly’s Last Stand? A: Glenrowan
Q: Who was the father of English monarch Queen Mary I? A: Henry VIII
Q: ‘The Kiss’ is an 1889 work by which French sculptor? A: Auguste Rodin
Q: In which European country is Lake Bolsena? A: Italy
Q: In medicine, glomerulonephritis affects which part of the body? A: Kidneys
Q: Which country hosted the 2003 ICC Cricket World Cup? A: South Africa
Q: Pattaya, Phucket and Koh Samui are tourist destinations in which country? A: Thailand
Q: What is the science which maps the main features of the heavens and the earth, including astronomy, geography and geology? A: Cosmography
Q: Which element does Zn represent in the Periodic Table? A: Zinc
Q: In entertainment, which Marx Brothers real name was Leonard? A: Chico
Q: Poul Schluter became Prime Minister of which country in September 1982? A: Denmark
Q: What is fictional Inspector Maigret’s first name? A: Jules
Q: ‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever’ is the first line of ‘Endymion’ by which poet? A: John Keats
Q: Who was the longest-serving presenter of UK children’s tv show ‘Blue Peter’? A: John Noakes
Q: Which, now defunct, political party was founded by Declan Ganley in April 2009? A: Libertas Ireland
Q: Which animal is known as the ‘Waller’s Gazelle’? A: Gerenuk
Q: In the novel ‘The Lord of the Rings’ by Tolkein, what is the name of the horse given to Gandalf by King Theoden? A: Shadowfax
Q: Philip Morris launched which cigarette brand in 1924? A: Marlboro
Q: Which British monarch is portrayed in the 1940 film ‘The Sea hawk’, starring Errol Flynn? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: What is the title of William Shakespeare’s longest play? A: Hamlet
Q: The International Society of Krishna Consciousness, also known as The Hare Krishna Movement, has its headquarters in which Indian city? A: Mayapur
Q: ‘Where Everybody Knows Your Name’ is the theme tune to which US tv series? A: Cheers
Q: Dendrophilia is the love of what? A: Trees
Q: Which British TV chef co-founded a band called ‘Scarlet Division’ in 1989? A: Jamie Oliver
Q: Which actress played the Red Queen in the 2010 film ‘Alice in Wonderland’? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: The Nigerian port of Lagos lies on which Gulf? A: Gulf of Guinea
Q: In which English county is the town of Ashby-de-la-Zouch? A: Leicestershire
Q: Who played hitman Martin Q Blank in the 1997 film ‘Grosse Pointe Blank’? A: John Cusack
Q: In surfing, ‘Men in Grey Suits’ is another name for what? A: Sharks
Q: John Ridd is the hero of which novel by R D Blackmore? A: Lorna Doone
Q: What is the nickname of the Beijing National Stadium? A: The Bird’s Nest
Q: Dina Ruiz married which Hollywood actor and director in March 1996? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: In January 1986 who did George Younger succeed as British Secretary of State for Defence? A: Michael Heseltine
Q: An Aswang, or Asuwang, is a mythical vampire-like creature in the folklore of which Asian country? A: Philippines
Q: An Izba is a type of log house traditional to which country? A: Russia
Q: In the 2009 animated film ‘Up’ who is the voice of explorer Charles F Muntz? A: Christopher Plummer
Q: Convalleria majalis is the Latin name for which flower? A: Lily of the Valley
Q: Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde are the enemies of which game character? A: Pac-Man
Q: Jacob’s Creek wine comes from which country? A: Australia
Q: Which Charles Dickens character has a pet dog called Bull’s Eye? A: Bill Sykes
Q: The Creamfields Dance Music Festival takes place annually in which English county? A: Cheshire
Q: The London Bridge, built in 1831, was transported stone by stone to which US state? A: Arizona
Q: In which year was women’s football officially introduced into the Summer Olympics? A: 1996
Q: Which sea creature has been adopted as the symbol of the Parramatta Rugby League Club in Sydney, Australia? A: Eel
Q: What is the first name of Mildred’s sister in the UK television sitcom ‘George and Mildred’? A: Ethel
Q: Freddy Eynsford Hill is a character in which play? A: Pygmalion
Q: Which breed of dog won Best In Show at Crufts 2011? A: Flatcoated Retriever
Q: The format of which British television show is based on the American show ‘College Bowl’? A: University Challenge
Q: The Buckingham Fountain, built in 1927, is in which US city? A: Chicago
Q: Euronext is an electronic stock exchange based in which European city? A: Amsterdam
Q: The alcoholic drink Absinthe originated in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: The company ‘Longines’ are famous for manufacturing which luxury items? A: Watches
Q: Who became Prime Minister of New Zealand in August 1989? A: Geoffrey Palmer
Q: Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock play sisters from a long line of witches in which 1998 film? A: Practical Magic
Q: Actress Audrey Hepburn won her only Oscar for which film? A: Roman Holiday
Q: On a mobile phone keypad, the letters ‘tuv’ are on which number button? A: 8
Q: What was the name of the tavern in London where the Masonic Grand Lodge of England was founded in the 18th Century? A: Goose and Gridiron
Q: Actress Betty Joan Perske is better known by what name? A: Lauren Bacall
Q: Cointreau, lemon juice and which spirit make a Sidecar cocktail? A: Brandy/Cognac
Q: Which cigarette brand was launched in 1924 with the slogan ‘Mild As May’? A: Marlboro
Q: Which US artist died in a car crash in August 1956, aged 44? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: In humans, the condition erythema affects which part of the body? A: Skin
Q: The Aviva Premiership is a professional English league competition in which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: ‘On Stranger Tides’ and ‘Dead Man’s Chest’ are subtitles of which series of films? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: In the game of darts, what is the name of the line behind which the players stand to throw their darts? A: Oche
Q: What is the word for ‘Friend’ in Swahili? A: Rafiki
Q: What type of acid is secreted by red ants and stinging nettles? A: Formic acid
Q: What is the extreme sport called in which a person hurls themselves down a hill inside a large hollow ball? A: Zorbing
Q: How many pins are on a SCART connector, used to connect video equipment? A: 21
Q: Pomiculture is the cultivation of what? A: Fruit
Q: In September 2011, who became the oldest living artist to have a number one album, with Duets II, in the US charts? A: Tony Bennett
Q: Tom, Barbara, Jerry and Margo are all characters in which 1970’s UK television sitcom? A: The Good Life
Q: Russian dessert ‘Pashka’ is traditionally eaten during which religious holiday? A: Easter
Q: What is the name of the jockey who won the 2011 English Grand National on Ballabriggs? A: Jason Maguire
Q: In the UK television series ‘Sharpe’, starring Sean Bean, what is Sharpe’s first name? A: Richard
Q: The diameter of a standard CD measures how many centimetres? A: 12
Q: Olympus is the highest peak on which Mediterranean island? A: Cyprus
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who met a Pieman going to the fair? A: Simple Simon
Q: Who became US Secretary of State in 2009? A: Hillary Clinton
Q: In Britain, ‘The Habeas Corpus Act’ of 1679 was passed during the reign of which monarch? A: King Charles II
Q: In which 1984 film did Johnny Depp make his debut film appearance? A: A Nightmare On Elm Street
Q: Which English actor played Pinhead in eight of the ‘Hellraiser’ series of films? A: Doug Bradley
Q: Which star of the US television series ‘Friends’ made their film debut in the 1993 film ‘Leprechaun’? A: Jennifer Aniston
Q: What is the name of the hotel in the 1980 film ‘The Shining’, starring Jack Nicholson? A: The Overlook Hotel
Q: Who played the title roles in the 1941 film ‘Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde’? A: Spencer Tracy
Q: The 1953 film ‘House of Wax’, starring Vincent Price, is set in which city? A: New York
Q: Which UK-based film company, founded in 1934, was best known for producing horror films between the mid 1950’s until the 1970’s? A: Hammer Film Productions
Q: The 1957 film ‘The Curse of Frankenstein’ was based on a novel by which author? A: Mary Shelley
Q: In the 1971 film ‘Willard’, the title character has a strange affinity for which creatures? A: Rats
Q: Jason Vorhees is a fictional character, who uses a machete on his victims, in which series of films? A: Friday the 13th
Q: In the 1990 film ‘Misery’, what occupation does Paul Sheldon, played by James Caan, have? A: Novelist
Q: The 1992 film ‘Candyman’ is based on which short story by Clive Barker? A: The Forbidden
Q: The plot of which 1999 film revolves around a giant, 30-foot long man-eating crocodile of Black Lake, Maine? A: Lake Placid
Q: Daniel Radcliffe stars as solicitor Arthur Kipps in which 2012 film? A: The Woman in Black
Q: What type of fruit is a Comice? A: Pear
Q: A Saturniid is what type of creature? A: Moth
Q: Who released a 1980 album entitled ‘Tennis’? A: Chris Rea
Q: A polynya is a stretch of open water surrounded by what? A: Sea ice
Q: In British politics, who had the nickname ‘The Beast of Bolsover’? A: Dennis Skinner
Q: Avian influenza affects which type of creatures? A: Birds
Q: Bubble Eye, Shubunkin and Oranda are all types of which creature? A: Goldfish
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies between 13 and 18? A: 4
Q: What is the profession of Bill Murray’s character in the 1993 film ‘Groundhog Day’? A: Weatherman
Q: The controversial Boruca Dam is in which South American country? A: Costa Rica
Q: The ‘Hats’ and the ‘Caps’ were political factions during the 18th Century ‘Age of Liberty’ in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: Ornithophobia is the irrational fear of which creatures? A: Birds
Q: The town of Purgatory is in which US state? A: Maine
Q: What was the first scheduled television programme to be shown in the UK on BBC2? A: Play School
Q: Which English agriculturalist developed a horse-drawn seed drill in 1701? A: Jethro Tull
Q: British comedian Michael Joseph Pennington is better known by what name? A: Johnny Vegas
Q: The National Art Library is in which London museum? A: Victoria and Albert Museum
Q: Which King of Sparta was the husband of Helen of Troy? A: Menelaus
Q: Which famous monument stands in the centre of the ‘Place Charles de Gaulle’ in Paris? A: Arc de Triomphe
Q: Which US musician launched ‘Mansinthe’, his own brand of Absinthe in 2007? A: Marilyn Manson
Q: The Australian city of  Melnbourne lies at the mouth of which river? A: Yarra River
Q: Which ship picked up over 700 Titanic survivors in April 1912? A: RMS Carpathia
Q: Austria is divided into how many states? A: Nine
Q: How many bones are in the human neck? A: Seven
Q: Which chemical element is also know as ‘Inflammable Air’? A: Hydrogen
Q: In the nursery rhyme, ‘…who…put the kettle on? A: Polly
Q: In which European city was writer and poet Oscar Wilde born? A: Dublin
Q: What do the interior angles of an octagon add up to in degrees? A: 1080
Q: What is the title of the theme tune to BBC radio’s ‘Desert Island Discs’? A: By the Sleepy Lagoon
Q: In Greek mythology, who was condemned to the eternal task of rolling a large stone up to the top of a hill, from which it always rolled down again? A: Sisyphus
Q: Which member of The Beatles used the pseudonym L’Angelo Misterioso? A: George Harrison
Q: In cookery, ‘agneau’ is French for which meat? A: Lamb
Q: Which energy drink is advertised with the slogan ‘…..gives you wings’? A: Red Bull
Q: A pontil is a metal rod used in the process of what? A: Glassblowing
Q: What colour are the flowers of the saw-wort? A: Purple
Q: A Schick test is a skin test for previously acquired immunity to which disease? A: Diptheria
Q: Jafar, Abu and Iago are all characters in which Disney film? A: Aladdin
Q: The song ‘Ugly Duckling’ by Danny Kaye features in which car manufacturers television advert? A: Audi
Q: Who became the Mayor of New York City in 2002? A: Michael Bloomberg
Q: The Scales represent which sign of the Zodiac? A: Libra
Q: Which English Rugby Union team play their home games at Franklins Gardens? A: Northampton Saints
Q: Who plays the politician who becomes the boyfriend of Jennifer Lopez in the 2003 film ‘Maid in Manhattan’? A: Ralph Fiennes
Q: What was jazz musician Bix Beiderbecke’s first name? A: Leon
Q: What is the name given to a word or sentence which reads the same forwards and backwards? A: Palindrome
Q: Which 20th Century American artist was well known for his unique style of ‘Drip Painting’? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: Gary Burrell and Min Kao founded which US-based navigation systems company in 1989? A: Garmin
Q: Morty and Ferdie are the nephews of which cartoon character? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: What type of bird is a kookaburra? A: Kingfisher
Q: In Greek mythology, the 100 eyes of watchman Argus were placed on the tail of which bird by Juno, after he fell asleep, closing all of his eyes? A: Peacock
Q: The city of Samara is in which European country? A: Russia
Q: Pruritus is the medical name for which skin condition in humans? A: Itching
Q: ‘Miercoles’ is the Spanish name for which day of the week? A: Wednesday
Q: What is the geometric figure or design which represents the universe in Hindu or Buddhist symbolism? A: Mandala
Q: In heraldry, a bar sinister, a broad diagonal stripe from top right to bottom left on a shield, was supposed to signify what? A: Bastardy
Q: Which tennis player won the 2005 Wimbledon Men’s Finals? A: Roger Federer
Q: In which 1979 film did Pierce Brosnan make his movie debut as an IRA hitman? A: The Long Good Friday
Q: What is the longest chapter in a book of the Bible? A: Psalm 119
Q: What is the branch of medicine called that is concerned with the causes and effects of disease? A: Pathology
Q: Who wrote the 1973 novel ‘A Fairy Tale of New York’? A: J P Donleavy
Q: Flora, Merryweather and King Hubert are all characters in which Disney film? A: Sleeping Beauty
Q: Footvolley, a variation of football, originated in which country? A: Brazil
Q: In which country was actress Audrey Hepburn born? A: Belguim
Q: Pearl and Moonstone are traditional modern birthstones for which month of the year? A: June
Q: In religion, what is the name of the place where Sikhs come together for congregational worship? A: A Gurdwara
Q: Josephine Cochran(e) made which first practical mechanical household appliance in 1886? A: Dishwasher
Q: The Sudirman Cup is a challenge trophy contested by mixed teams in which sport? A: Badminton
Q: Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson play the head butler and housekeeper in which 1993 film? A: The Remains of the Day
Q: The European city of Rome lies on which river? A: The Tiber
Q: The 11th Century nobleman Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar was better known by what name? A: El Cid
Q: Isaan is the northeast region of which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: Which scientist wrote a letter in 1704 in which he predicted the end of the world in 2060 after studying Biblical texts? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: Which actress played Sid James’ wife in the UK television series ‘Bless This House’? A: Diana Coupland
Q: The medical condition ‘epicondylitis’ is better known by what name? A: Tennis elbow
Q: What was the name of the river by which Julius Caesar stood when he reputedly said ‘The die has been cast’? A: The Rubicon River
Q: In the UK television series ‘Hollyoaks’, which musical instrument does Rhys Ashworth play? A: Drums
Q: Retinol is a form of which vitamin? A: Vitamin A
Q: A ‘Ruby-tailed’ is what type of creature? A: Wasp
Q: The town of Ilkley in Yorkshire lies on which river? A: River Wharfe
Q: In which year was the first Olympic Commemorative Coin minted? A: 1951
Q: What is the name of the traditional Japanese hand-concealed weapon, often in the form of a star with projecting blades or points? A: Shuriken
Q: In 1407, Dick Whittington was simultaneously Lord Mayor of London and Mayor of which French town? A: Calais
Q: Which English poet wrote ‘The Prisoner of Chillon’? A: Lord Byron
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Australia at the outbreak of World War I? A: Andrew Fisher
Q: Which Essex town was granted city status for the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II? A: Chelmsford
Q: In the William Wordsworth poem ‘I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud’, how many daffodils are mentioned? A: Ten thousand
Q: Which two states border the US state of Florida? A: Alabama and Georgia
Q: Which English football team is nicknamed ‘The Cobblers’? A: Northampton Town FC
Q: If someone suffers from ‘Stendhal Syndrome’ they suffer giddiness and confusion when exposed to what? A: Art
Q: Ehud Olmert became Prime Minister of which country in 2006? A: Israel
Q: Which English airport features in a television advert for ‘Specsavers’? A: Luton Airport
Q: Villain Hugo Drax appears in which 1979 James Bond film? A: Moonraker
Q: The volcano Hekla is on which island? A: Iceland
Q: An 18th Century dandy and a type of pasta share which name? A: Macaroni
Q: Which American philosopher built a hut near Walden pond, Concord in 1845, and lived there as a hermit for a few years? A: Henry David Thoreau
Q: Which band released an 1984 album entitled ‘Legend’? A: Bob Marley and the Wailers
Q: The medical condition aphagia is the inability or refusal to do what? A: Swallow
Q: The 1988 film ‘Frantic’, starring Harrison Ford, is set in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Sweet Vermouth, Angostura Bitters and Bourbon Whiskey are the ingredients of which cocktail? A: Manhattan
Q: ‘Jam and Jerusalem’ is associated with which British institution? A: Women’s Institute
Q: Anserine relates to which creature? A: Goose
Q: What is the name of Tom and Barbara’s goat in the UK television series ‘The Good Life’? A: Geraldine
Q: Jenny Pitman was the trainer of which 1995 Grand National winning horse? A: Royal Athlete
Q: The 17th Century explorer Robert Cavelier (or Robert de la Salle) canoed down which American river and claimed the entire river basin for France? A: Mississippi River
Q: Which French port did RMS Titanic call at after leaving Southampton in April 1912? A: Cherbourg
Q: Which novelist won the 1993 Booker Prize for his novel ‘Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha’? A: Roddy Doyle
Q: Singer Doug Trendle is better known by what name? A: Buster Bloodvessel
Q: Barbara Pierce is married to which former US President? A: George H W Bush
Q: What is the cube-root of 343? A: 7
Q: The city of Linz is in which European country? A: Austria
Q: The bull represents which sign of the Zodiac? A: Taurus
Q: What is the surname of rowing brothers Greg and Jonny, who won Olympic Gold Medals in 1992? A: Searle
Q: Joe Frazier said ‘He’s phoney, using his blackness to get his way’, about which other boxer? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: What is the title of the 1978 sequel to the 1970 film ‘Love Story’, starring Ryan O’Neal’? A: Oliver’s Story
Q: Who wrote the children’s story ‘James and the Giant Peach’? A: Roald Dahl
Q: Soft, Rigid Gas Permeable and Plano are all types of what? A: Contact Lenses
Q: The Battle of Caporetto was fought during which war? A: World War I
Q: What is the name of the official residence of the Mayor of the City of New York? A: Gracie Mansion
Q: ‘The Postage Stamp’ is a hole on which Scottish golf course? A: Royal Troon
Q: Zermatt and Verbier are ski resorts in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: In King Arthur’s ‘Camelot’, what is Excalibur? A: A sword
Q: What does a philographist collect? A: Autographs
Q: What is the name of Britain’s highest chalk sea cliff? A: Beachy Head
Q: Which British actor played the role of Leon Trotsky in the 1972 film ‘The Assassination of Trotsky’? A: Richard Burton
Q: Pumba is what type of animal in the film ‘The Lion King’? A: Warthog
Q: In September 1951, which three countries signed a mutual defence pact, known as the ANZUS Treaty? A: Australia, New Zealand, United States
Q: The island of Gran Canaria lies in which body of water? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books during which month of the year is Harry Potter’s birthday? A: July
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what is the name of the driver of the Knight Bus? A: Ernie Prang
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books who killed Cedric Diggory in the Goblet of Fire film? A: Peter Pettigrew
Q: Which late actor played Albus Dumbledore in the first two Harry potter films? A: Richard Harris
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books which animal is Hagrid allergic to? A: Cats
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what are the names of Molly Weasley’s brothers who were killed by Death Eaters in the First Wizarding War? A: Gideon and Fabian Prewett
Q: What is the name of the wizarding pub in London in the Harry Potter novels? A: The Leaky Cauldron
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what make and model is the Weasley family’s flying car? A: Ford Anglia
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what is the name of Harry Potter’s pet owl? A: Hedwig
Q: What is the title of the third Harry Potter book? A: The Prisoner of Azkaban
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what is the name of the team sport, played by seven players on each team, at Hogwarts School? A: Quidditch
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books which animal is James Potter’s ‘Patronus’ A: A stag
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books what is the name of the Charms Master at Hogwarts School? A: Filius Flitwick
Q: The 1999 film ‘Topsy Turvy’ by Mike Leigh is about which playwright and composer duo? A: Gilbert and Sullivan
Q: In the human body, what is a hallux valgus more commonly known as? A: Bunion
Q: Malacology is the branch of zoology concerned with which type of creatures? A: Molluscs
Q: Which band had a 1959 hit with the song ‘I Only Have Eyes For You’? A: The Flamingos
Q: Which Polynesian island was originally called Rapa Nui before it was discovered by Dutch explorer Jacob Roggeeven in 1722? A: Easter Island
Q: ‘Down the Rabbit Hole’ is the opening chapter of which children’s novel? A: Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
Q: By area, what is the smallest of the United Arab Emirates? A: Ajman
Q: In March 1935 which cartoon character made his debut in Looney Tunes ‘I Haven’t Got a Hat’? A: Porky Pig
Q: Joan Fussey, Miss Haggard and Josh Fiddler are all characters in which ‘Carry On’ film? A: Carry On Camping
Q: What was the name of the prison from which anti-apartheid campaigner Nelson Mandela was released in February 1990? A: Victor Verster
Q: In the nursery rhyme ‘Sing a Song of Sixpence’ how many blackbirds were baked in a pie? A: 24
Q: The vitelus is which part of an egg? A: Yolk
Q: What is the title of Samuel Beckett’s play which consists of about 25 seconds of screams and heavy breathing? A: Breath
Q: ‘Teardrop’ by Massive Attack is the theme tune to which US television medical drama starring Hugh Laurie? A: House
Q: How many ‘Books’ make up the Old Testament of the Bible? A: 39
Q: Chartwell was the family home of which British Prime Minister? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Dhaka is the capital of which Asian country? A: Bangladesh
Q: The Royal Albert Hall is in which London road? A: Kensington Gore
Q: During which year were the first Youth Olympics held? A: 2010
Q: Which English pop artist created The Beatles ‘Sgt Pepper’ album cover? A: Peter Blake
Q: The Gopik is a unit of currency in which country? A: Azerbaijan
Q: In the 1990 film ‘White Hunter, Black Heart’, Clint Eastwood’s character is based on which film director? A: John Huston
Q: Virologist Max Theiler won a 1951 Nobel Prize for developing a vaccine against which disease? A: Yellow Fever
Q: Which record label is named after founders Herb Alpert and Jerry Moss? A: A&M Records
Q: Which German composer wrote the oratorios ‘Elijah’ and ‘St Paul’? A: Mendelssohn
Q: Which prolific English Novelist’s first book was entitled ‘Jigsaw’? A: Barbara Cartland
Q: What does ‘N’ represent in the Periodic Table? A: Nitrogen
Q: Which late singer had a favourite pet cat called Delilah? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: Agrava, Cephlon and Virn are all fictional planets in which BBC science fiction television series? A: Blake’s 7
Q: The Apo Reef lies off the coast of which country? A: Philippines
Q: Which city hosted the 2010 Paralympic Games? A: Vancouver
Q: Femicide is the killing of which members of society? A: Women
Q: The Carisbrook Rugby Stadium is in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Los Barcos was the name of the fictional village in which BBC television series? A: Eldorado
Q: In September 2011, which British comedian swam the length of the River Thames for charity? A: David Walliams
Q: Which British newspaper was launched with the slogan ‘It is, are you’? A: The Independent
Q: What is the name of the bank in the UK television series ‘Dad’s Army’? A: Swallow Bank
Q: VT is the abreviation for which US state? A: Vermont
Q: Which beverage, introduced in 1898, was originally called ‘Brad’s Drink’? A: Pepsi-Cola
Q: Which US businessman funded the Standard Oil Company? A: John D Rockefeller
Q: What is the capital of Morocco? A: Rabat
Q: Who did actor Jack May play in the BBC radio series ‘The Archers’? A: Nelson Gabriel
Q: Which Internet search engine was shortened to Ask.com in 2006? A: AskJeeves.com
Q: Which British athlete won a Gold Medal in the heptathlon at the 2009 IAAF World Championships in Berlin? A: Jessica Ennis
Q: What was British Prime Minister Harold Wilson’s first name? A: James
Q: In the novel Peter Pan, what are the first names of Wendy’s two brothers? A: Michael and John
Q: The Oswaldo Cruz Institute and the Butantan Institute are in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: Former Olympic athlete and Gold Medallist Michael Duane Johnson was born in which US state? A: Texas
Q: Jodie Foster sings ‘My Name is Tallulah’ in which 1976 film? A: Bugsy Malone
Q: Which British boxer was nicknamed ‘The Dark Destroyer’? A: Nigel Benn
Q: What is a young swan called? A: Cygnet
Q: Which rapper’s real name is Louise Harman? A: Lady Sovereign
Q: Philip Pirrip is the lead character in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Great Expectations
Q: According to Greek mythology, who was the first woman on Earth? A: Pandora
Q: Which English monarch was married to Eleanor of Aquitaine? A: Henry II
Q: In which South American city is Sugarloaf Mountain? A: Rio de Janiero
Q: Who wrote the 1950 novel ‘A Town Like Alice’? A: Neville Shute
Q: Which musical instrument represents the cat in Sergei Prokofiev’s ‘Peter and the Wolf’? A: Clarinet
Q: Khoom is Hebrew for which colour? A: Brown
Q: What type of creature is a mango? A: Bird
Q: What is the highest level Dan in judo? A: 10th
Q: Originally built as a research lab off the coast of Puerto Rico, the world’s first underwater hotel, the Jules Undersea Lodge, is now situated in which US state? A: Florida
Q: Which actor played Sergeant Francis Troy in the 1967 film ‘Far From the Madding Crowd’? A: Terence Stamp
Q: Created by cartoonist Robert Lips, cartoon character ‘Globi’ originated in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: Acute Coryza is a medical term for which common complaint? A: A cold
Q: How many players are on the field in a team during a game of Canadian Box Lacrosse? A: Six
Q: Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero was elected Prime Minister of which country in March 2004? A: Spain
Q: Who recorded the 1965 song ‘Eve of Destruction’, a protest song against the Vietnam War? A: Barry McGuire
Q: In which English city did the Belgrade Theatre open in 1958? A: Coventry
Q: Which Spice Girl took part in ‘Dancing With the Stars’, the US version of the UK television show ‘Strictly Come Dancing’? A: Melanie Brown (Scary Spice)
Q: In humans the atlas and axis bones are in which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: A polyglot is someone who uses or knows several what? A: Languages
Q: Sastrugi are parallel wave-like ridges caused by winds on the surface of what? A: Snow
Q: ‘Bankable Productions’, an independent film and television production company, was founded by which former model? A: Tyra Banks
Q: ‘Podshaving’ is the art of hand-making which piece of sports equipment? A: Cricket bat
Q: In 1786, Jacques Balmat and Michel-Gabriel Paccard became the first climbers to reach the summit of which European mountain? A: Mont Blanc
Q: Which female gymnast won Gold Medals in the Balance Beam and Floor Exercise events in the 1972 Summer Olympics? A: Olga Korbut
Q: Which Michelin star chef launched his own brand of beer called ‘The Governor’ in 2011? A: Marco Pierre White
Q: According to the proverb ‘People in glass houses shouldn’t do what’? A: Throw stones
Q: How many ounces are in a US (short) ton? A: 32,000
Q: On a QWERTY keyboard which letter lies between A and D? A: S
Q: Fictional character Cruella De Vil is associated with which breed of dog? A: Dalmation
Q: Eboracum was the Latin name for which English city? A: York
Q: Which fictional doctor lives in Puddleby-on-the-Marsh? A: Dr Doolittle
Q: In sport, what is the informal name of the box or bench to which offending players be sent as a penalty during a game? A: Sin bin
Q: In the Batman series of films, what is Alfred the butler’s surname? A: Pennyworth
Q: In which part of the human body are the metatarsus bones? A: Foot
Q: What breed of animal is a Chester White? A: Pig
Q: Boss, Flex, Vane and Nock are terms used in which sport? A: Archery
Q: What is the last book of the Old Testament of The Bible? A: Malachi
Q: Which race horse won the Cheltenham Gold Cup in 1989? A: Desert Orchid
Q: ‘Well, nobody’s perfect’ is the last line of which 1959 film? A: Some Like It Hot
Q: Bocconi University is in which European city? A: Milan
Q: What is the system of sending messages by holding the arms, or two flags, in certain positions according to an alphabetic code? A: Semaphore
Q: Who are the rival gangs in the 1961 film ‘West Side Story’? A: Sharks and Jets
Q: The Korac Cup was played for in which sport? A: Basketball
Q: A ‘Destrier’ was the name of what, used by a medieval knight in battle? A: War horse
Q: In poetry, a tercet is a stanza in a poem made up of how many lines? A: Three
Q: William Pitt the Elder and William Pitt the Younger were British Prime Ministers during the reign of which monarch? A: King George III
Q: Who was the first Children’s Laureate? A: Quentin Blake
Q: A polliwog (or pollywog) is an old English word for which creature? A: Tadpole
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the many-headed monster slain by Heracles? A: Hydra
Q: A shepherd’s pie is traditionally made with which meat? A: Lamb
Q: French playwright Jean-Baptiste Poquelin was better known by what name? A: Moliere
Q: The ceibo is the national flower and tree of which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: The 1963 film ‘The Birds’ is based on a story by which novelist? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: In card games, a prial is a set of how many cards of the same value? A: Three
Q: What is the name of the punctuation mark that is represented by a comma under a dot? A: Semicolon
Q: A silver medal is traditionally awarded for which place in a race or competition? A: Second
Q: Who captained the England football team at the 1958 World Cup Finals? A: Billy Wright
Q: Which actor was singer Madonna’s first husband? A: Sean Penn
Q: What are the first names of Eric Feeble’s son and daughter in the animated television series ‘Stressed Eric’? A: Claire and Brian
Q: The medical condition priapism is a persistent and usually painful what? A: Erection
Q: Which footballer claimed that his hand-ball goal against England in 1986 was ‘The hand of God’? A: Diego Maradona
Q: Juliette Norton married which British television chef in 2000? A: Jamie Oliver
Q: Rozencrantz and Gildenstern are characters in which Shakespeare play? A: Hamlet
Q: In the human body, toxaemia is more commonly known by what name? A: Blood poisoning
Q: Which British politician introduced the expression ‘Terminological inexactitude’, a euphemism for a lie or untruth? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Who is the host of British television panel show ‘Eight Out of Ten Cats’? A: Jimmy Carr
Q: Lipshen is the name of the cat in which Roald Dahl book? A: The Witches
Q: Which famous race horse was stolen from the Ballymany Stud in Ireland in February 1983? A: Shergar
Q: Mount Huascaran is in which South American country? A: Peru
Q: Shiitake is what type of foodstuff? A: Mushroom
Q: Romansh is an official language of which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: Who was the first British footballer to play 100 Champions League matches? A: David Beckham
Q: The Bossa Nova dance originated in which country? A: Brazil
Q: David Evans is the real name of which Irish musician? A: The Edge
Q: What was the first game show to be broadcast on commercially-licenced television in the US in 1941? A: Truth or Consequence
Q: What is the name of the Japanese form of therapy that uses simple hands-on, no touch, and visualisation techniques, with the goal of improving the flow of life energy in a person? A: Reiki
Q: Lynn Reid Banks debut novel was entitled ‘The…’what’-Shaped Room’? A: L
Q: Which band released a 2007 album entitled ‘Myths of the Near Future’? A: The Klaxons
Q: What was the pen name of US crime writer Frederic Dannay? A: Ellery Queen
Q: Which fruit is the main ingredient of the liqueur Quetsch? A: Plum
Q: Jon Voight, Burt Reynolds, Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox play four friends in which 1972 film? A: Deliverance
Q: Which make of car has the advertising slogan ‘Zoom, Zoom’? A: Mazda
Q: How many coloured rings are on the Olympic flag? A: Five
Q: Who was the founder of the modern Olympic Games? A: Pierre de Coubertin
Q: The Olympic Torch is lit at which ancient site? A: Olympia
Q: In which US state were the 1960 Winter Olympic Games held? A: California
Q: An Olympiad is a period of how many successive years? A: Four
Q: The decathlon is contested over how many days? A: Two
Q: The Olympic Marathon is held in commemoration of which ancient Greek soldier who ran from Marathon to Athens? A: Pheidippides
Q: Which country has won the most medals in total at the Summer Olympic Games? A: United States of America
Q: Which event is sometimes referred to as the ‘Hop, step and jump’? A: Triple jump
Q: Which US retired speed skater has won five gold medals at the Winter Olympic Games? A: Bonnie Blair
Q: Who was the first gymnast to score a perfect 10 seven times in a row, at the 1976 Montreal Games? A: Nadia Comaneci
Q: The distance of the Olympic marathon is 26 miles and how many yards? A: 385 yards
Q: At the 1896 Athens Summer Olympic Games, the winners were given a silver medal and a branch from which type of tree? A: Olive
Q: Which British sportsman was the first 2012 Olympic Torchbearer in the UK? A: Ben Ainslie
Q: Who was the only Olympic medallist to have won the Nobel Peace Prize? A: Philip Noel-Baker
Q: The length of the Olympic marathon was extended for which British monarch, so that the competitors finished in front of where the monarch was seated? A: King Edward VII
Q: What are the names of the two 2012 London Olympic Games mascots? A: Wenlock and Mandeville
Q: Which British female swimmer won a silver medal at the 1980 Moscow Olympic Games for the 400 metre medley? A: Sharron Davies
Q: Which European city hosted the 2004 Summer Olympic Games? A: Athens
Q: The men’s football team from which country won the gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics? A: Argentina
Q: What was the name of the horse that Zara Phillips (Tindall) should have ridden at the 2008 Summer Olympics, but had to pull out because of an injury to the horse? A: Toytown
Q: Which British rower won five gold medals in five consecutive Olympic Games? A: Steve Redgrave
Q: In which European city was the first opening ceremony of the Olympic Games held? A: London
Q: Which country’s team always leads the procession of athletes during the Olympic Opening Ceremony? A: Greece
Q: The heptathlon is made up of how many events? A: Seven
Q: In 1924, which country hosted the first Winter Olympic Games? A: France
Q: How many chances in each round do high-jumpers get to clear the bar? A: Three
Q: In ancient Olympic Games, some men wore a ‘kynodesme’ to restrain which part of their body? A: Penis
Q: In 1960, who became the first Sub-Saharan African to win an Olympic Gold Medal? A: Abebe Bikila
Q: The ‘J’ approach and the ‘Flared’ approach are associated with which event? A: High Jump
Q: Who won the Eurovison Song Contest for the United Kingdom in 1967? A: Sandie Shaw
Q: Who succeeded Lyndon B Johnson as President of the United States? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Which US author committed suicide with a shotgun in 1961? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: On which Greek island did Jacqueline Kennedy marry shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis in October 1968? A: Skorpios
Q: Which Arthur Miller play aroused controversy over his portrayal of his failed marriage to actress Marilyn Monroe? A: After the Fall
Q: Mechanics Bay Airport serves which New Zealand city? A: Auckland
Q: What is the name of the ‘cake’ which is flat, round, made of licorice and named after a Yorkshire town? A: Pontefract Cake
Q: Who directed the 1997 film ‘Jackie Brown’? A: Quentin Tarantino
Q: In the game of Scrabble, the ‘C’ tile is worth how many points? A: 3
Q: How many red stripes are on the national flag of Austria? A: Two
Q: In which 1976 horror film did John Travolta appear with Sissy Spaceck? A: Carrie
Q: Which human sub-species was named after a valley near Dusseldorf in Germany, where they were known to have lived? A: Neanderthals
Q: Which epic poem by John Milton tells the story of the Fall of Adam and Eve? A: Paradise Lost
Q: What was the name of the horse that won the 1990 English Grand National? A: Mr Frisk
Q: Which chemical element is represented by Zr on the Periodic Table? A: Zirconium
Q: ‘Timen of…..’where’? is a play by William Shakespeare? A: Athens
Q: What is the staff called carried by rulers on ceremonial occasions as a symbol of imperial authority? A: Sceptre
Q: Sauternes wine comes from which country? A: France
Q: A ‘Fresh Breeze’ is what number on the Beaufort Scale? A: 5
Q: ‘The Clockwork Orange’ is the nickname of which British city’s underground railway system? A: Glasgow
Q: Miss Able and Miss Baker, the first living creatures to return alive to Earth from space, aboard the flight Jupiter AM-18 in 1959, were what type of animals? A: Monkeys
Q: Which scientist was appointed as Chemical Assistant at the Royal Institution by Humphrey Davy in March 1813? A: Michael Faraday
Q: In the novel Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte, what is the name of Mr Rochester’s housekeeper? A: Mrs Fairfax
Q: The ‘Tennis Court Oath’ was signed at the beginning of which revolution? A: French Revolution
Q: ‘Duck and dive’ represents which number in the game of Bingo? A: 25
Q: Which country won the FIFA Award for Most Entertaining Team at the 2006 World Cup? A: Portugal
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Ad libitum’ translate to in English? A: At one’s pleasure
Q: Doi Inthanon is the highest mountain in which country? A: Thailand
Q: Which dessert is also known as ‘Omelette Surprise’? A: Baked Alaska
Q: US actress Courtney Cox became famous after appearing in the 1984 video of which US singer/songwriter? A: Bruce Springstein
Q: Who wrote the 1975 book ‘Superwoman’? A: Shirley Conran
Q: What was the name of the London pub in which gangster Ronnie Kray murdered Geroge Cornell in March 1966? A: The Blind Beggar
Q: The ‘Petit Trianon’ is a small chateau located in the grounds of which palace? A: Palace of Versailles
Q: The island of Corsica belongs to which country? A: France
Q: Top hat, iron, dog and ship are all pieces in which board game? A: Monopoly
Q: Keith Lemon and Avid Merion are alter-egos of which British comedian? A: Leigh Francis
Q: Which Scottish photographer took the famous 1969 photo of The Beatles on a zebra crossing on Abbey Road? A: Iain MacMillan
Q: What were the first names of British politician Rab Butler? A: Richard Austen
Q: What is the postcode for BBC’s soap ‘Eastenders’? A: E20
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Hunt For Red October’? A: Tom Clancy
Q: Carrageenan is a substance extracted from red and purple what? A: Seaweed
Q: What type of paper changes colour when testing whether a substance is acid or alkali? A: Litmus paper
Q: What is the method of hair removal called in which strands of cotton are used to pluck unwanted hair? A: Threading
Q: Fray Bentos is a port in which South American country? A: Uruguay
Q: What is the title of the theme tune to the BBC radio show ‘The Archers’? A: Barwick Green
Q: Which tennis player beat Andre Agassi in the Men’s Wimbledon Singles Finals in three straight sets in 1999? A: Pete Sampras
Q: What is the first name of fictional diarist Adrian Mole’s mother? A: Pauline
Q: A Pratincole is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Which month in the Gregorian calendar was originally the seventh month of the Roman calendar? A: September
Q: Which luggage company is named after a Biblical strongman? A: Samsonite
Q: The ‘Great Bells of Bow’ church were used to time the executions at which London prison? A: Newgate
Q: Arboreal animals live in or among which habitat? A: Trees
Q: Who played Queen Victoria in the 1997 film ‘Mrs Brown’? A: Dame Judi Dench
Q: In Greek mythology Charon was said to have ferried the souls of the newly arrived dead across which rivers? A: Styx and Acheron
Q: Which US animated television series 90 second pilot episode clip was called the ‘Flagstones’? A: The Flintstones
Q: The English city of Norwich lies on which river? A: River Wensum
Q: Sevruga, Sterlet and Ossetra are all types of which delicacy? A: Caviar
Q: In poetry, a sonnet consists of how many lines? A: 14
Q: What is the name of the twin sister of the Disney character Donald Duck? A: Della
Q: How many points is a conversion worth in a game of rugby union? A: Two
Q: A purfle is an ornamental border, typically inlaid on which musical instrument? A: Violin
Q: Which English town was called Camulodunum in Latin? A: Colchester
Q: ‘Happy Rabbit’ was the original name for which cartoon character? A: Bugs Bunny
Q: Comma, Peacock and Swallowtail are all types of which insect? A: Butterfly
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, what did Tom the Piper’s son steal? A: A pig
Q: What is the title of the 1944 film in which Lauren Bacall made her movie debut? A: To Have and Have Not
Q: Which 18th Century artist painted a portrait of actress Sarah Siddons entitled ‘Mrs Siddons as the Tragic Muse’? A: Joshua Reynolds
Q: Brown Windsor is what type of food dish? A: Soup
Q: Which British singer released a 2009 album entitled ‘3 Words’? A: Cheryl Cole
Q: ‘Caballo’ is Spanish for which animal? A: Horse
Q: The Italian cooking sauce pasata is made from which vegetable? A: Tomato
Q: Slovenia was once part of which former European country? A: Yugoslavia
Q: Which country will host the 2014 Winter Olympic Games? A: Russia
Q: The Ashmolean Museum is in which English city? A: Oxford
Q: Which British poet wrote ‘Kubla Khan’? A: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Q: Which artist designed the logo for UK television children’s show ‘Blue Peter’? A: Tony Hart
Q: Who wrote the 1966 comic novel ‘The Virgin Soldiers’? A: Leslie Thomas
Q: ‘Odette’ is a character in which ballet? A: Swan Lake
Q: Arborio rice comes from which European country? A: Italy
Q: Which three countries signed the ‘Triple Entente’ in 1907? A: France, Great Britain and Russia
Q: In the UK, during which year were women first allowed to vote in a General Election? A: 1918
Q: Saxony is a region of which European country? A: Germany
Q: A ‘Scissor Hold’ is used in which sport? A: Wrestling
Q: Humphrey Pumphrey is a character in which British television sitcom? A: George and Mildred
Q: The goat represents which sign of the Zodiac? A: Capricorn
Q: In cookery, the traditional Austrian Wiener Schnitzel is made with which meat? A: Veal
Q: Dustin Hoffman plays army medic Colonel Sam Daniels in which 1995 film? A: Outbreak
Q: Which planet lies between Jupiter and Uranus? A: Saturn
Q: English singer Sandie Shaw married which fashion designer in March 1968? A: Jeff Banks
Q: In Greek mythology, the ‘Grey Sisters’, or Graeae, shared one eye and one ‘what’ among them? A: Tooth
Q: Mickey Murphy was the baker in which British children’s television programme? A: Camberwick Green
Q: The Carnation Revolution took place in which European country in the 1970’s? A: Portugal
Q: What is the title of the 18th James Bond film? A: Tomorrow Never Dies
Q: Which American actress was born Ruth Elizabeth Davis? A: Bette Davis
Q: In which century did the Montgolfier brothers succeed in launching the first manned ascent in a hot-air balloon? A: 18th Century
Q: Preto is Portuguese for which colour? A: Black
Q: Who plays crime boss John Rooney in the 2002 film ‘Road to Perdition’? A: Paul Newman
Q: Who was the mother of English monarch James I? A: Mary Queen of Scots
Q: What type of creature is an argali? A: Sheep
Q: Aristotle Bolt, Tia Malone and Biff Jenkins are all characters in which 1975 Disney film? A: Escape to Witch Mountain
Q: Which US President was given the nickname ‘The Great Emancipator’? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: What is the name of the cow in the television series ‘The Magic Roundabout’? A: Ermintrude
Q: Who released a 2009 album entitled ‘The Element of Freedom’? A: Alicia keys
Q: What is the capital of Malaysia? A: Kuala Lumpur
Q: Formula One racing driver Robert Kubica was born in which country? A: Poland
Q: What is the V-shaped formation of a flock of wild geese called? A: Skein
Q: What was the first name of British film producer J Arthur Rank? A: Joseph
Q: In cookery, what are the two ingredients of ganache? A: Chocolate and cream
Q: Which chemical element is also known as Hydrargyrum? A: Mercury
Q: What is the medical term for the shoulder blade? A: Scapula
Q: Royal Gala is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: In motoring, which creature is featured on the logo of the Porsche? A: Horse
Q: Kyudo is the Japanese art of which sport? A: Archery
Q: Which American-born engineer invented the first portable, fully automatic machine gun? A: Hiram Stevens Maxim
Q: What is the state capital of South Australia? A: Adelaide
Q: According to the Bible, who was King Solomon’s father? A: King David
Q: Oberon, Puck and Lysander are characters in which Shakespeare play? A: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Q: Matthew Boulton was the business partner of which Scottish inventor and engineer? A: James Watt
Q: Who wrote the 18th Century play ‘The Rivals’? A: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
Q: Who wrote the 1963 novel ‘The Bell Jar’? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: Painter Joshua Reynolds was knighted by which British monarch? A: King George III
Q: Tritanopia is a visual defect characterised by the inability to discern which two colours? A: Blue and yellow
Q: In which country was the 1990 FIFA World Cup held? A: Italy
Q: By what name was Mongol leader Temujin better known? A: Genghis Khan
Q: Fictional character Detective Inspector John Rebus was created by which author? A: Ian Rankin
Q: Originating in France, what is the name of the small ball of choux pastry, usually filled with cream and often covered with chocolate? A: Profiterole
Q: In the UK, which animals are traditionally associated with the first of the month? A: White rabbits
Q: On the UK television game show ‘The Chase’ which chaser is known as ‘The Governess’? A: Anne Hegerty
Q: The disused Vajont (or Vaiont) Dam is in which European country? A: Italy
Q: What is the first name of fictional character Sherlock Holmes friend and assistant Dr Watson? A: John
Q: Tartarology is the study of what? A: Hell
Q: A Shavian is an admirer of which dramatist and his work? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: In Sumo wrestling, a handful of what is thrown into the ring before combat? A: Salt
Q: Which 1945 film was based on the Noel Coward play ‘Still Life’? A: Brief Encounter
Q: Which former English cricketer is nicknamed ‘The Cat’? A: Phil Tufnell
Q: What is the highest number on a Euromillions lottery ticket? A: 50
Q: What was the name of the first American space station, which fell to Earth in 1979? A: Skylab
Q: Which is the hottest planet in our solar system? A: Venus
Q: What is the hardest substance known to man? A: Diamond
Q: The term ‘Googol’ is written in number form as number 1 followed by how many zeros? A: 100
Q: Which scientist discovered the radioactive element Radium in 1898? A: Marie Curie
Q: Which element makes iron rust? A: Oxygen
Q: In 1907 Belgian-born chemist Leo Baekeland created which type of plastic? A: Bakelite
Q: Relating to mobile phones, what is the area covered by a base station (or aerial) called? A: A cell
Q: The Ishihara Test is used for testing for what in humans? A: Colour Blindness
Q: What is the science that deals with the origin, nature, chemistry, effects and use of drugs? A: Pharmacology
Q: Anglophobia is the fear of which country and its people? A: England
Q: Pamplemousse is French for which fruit? A: Grapefruit
Q: What is the name of actor Vin Diesel’s character in the 2002 film xXx? A: Xander Cage
Q: What is the official language of Uruguay? A: Spanish
Q: What was the name of the space shuttle in which Alan Shepard went into space in 1961? A: Freedom 7
Q: Which British comedian has a character called ‘The Pub Landlord’? A: Al Murray
Q: Lady Jane Grey, known as the ‘Nine Day Queen’, was executed during the reign of which English monarch? A: Mary I
Q: The medical condition arthralgia affects which parts of the human body? A: Joints
Q: Who won the Yashin Award for the Best Goalkeeper in the 1998 World Cup? A: Fabien Barthez
Q: On a mobile phone keypad, the letters ‘jkl’ are on which number button? A: 5
Q: Which band released a 2007 album entitled ‘Favourite Worst Nightmare’? A: Arctic Monkeys
Q: Which was the first English football club to win the European Cup Final? A: Manchester United
Q: What type of weather condition is a Meltemi? A: Wind
Q: Which US entertainer had a twin brother named Jesse Garon, who died at birth? A: Elvis Presley
Q: The laws of cricket state that the length of a cricket bat must be no more than how many inches? A: 38
Q: The novels of which English author are set in the ‘Five Towns’? A: Arnold Bennett
Q: A Gold Medal is traditionally awarded for which place in a race or competition? A: First
Q: 18th Century artist Samuel Hieronymous Grimm was born in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: Mike Costin and Keith Duckworth founded which British-based engineering company in 1958? A: Cosworth
Q: In days, what is the average gestation period of a lioness? A: 110
Q: The goddess Aphrodite was said to have been born on which Mediterranean island? A: Cyprus
Q: The Pulitzer Prize is awarded in how many categories? A: 21
Q: ‘Blood and Fire’ is the motto of which organisation? A: Salvation Army
Q: How many years make up a vicennial period? A: 20
Q: What is the name of the pub at Topsham near Exeter to which Queen Elizabeth made her first official pub visit, in 1998? A: The Bridge Inn
Q: Which channel of water separates the two parts of Istanbul? A: The Bosphorus
Q: Which alcoholic drink is often referred to in historical literature as ‘The Green Fairy’? A: Absinthe
Q: British comedian John Bishop was born in which city? A: Liverpool
Q: Situated in Paris, what was the original name of the ‘Place Charles de Gaulle’? A: Place de l’Etoile
Q: Which spirit is traditionally used to make a Daiquiri cocktail? A: White rum
Q: Which Victorian author lived at number 14 Great Russell Street, London? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Who plays Michael Douglas brother Conrad in the 1997 film ‘The Game’? A: Sean Penn
Q: Dulcinea was the love of which fictional character? A: Don Quixote
Q: What is the duration of a round in men’s professional boxing? A: Three minutes
Q: Varsovians are natives of which European city? A: Warsaw
Q: Rigatoni is what type of foodstuff? A: Pasta
Q: What is the name of the lion in the children’s television programme ‘The Herbs’? A: Parsley
Q: Which planet lies between Saturn and Neptune? A: Uranus
Q: What is the name of the private investigator, played by Humphrey Bogart, in the 1941 film ‘The Maltese Falcon’? A: Sam Spade
Q: Dunkery Beacon is the highest point in which English National Park? A: Exmoor
Q: According to the Bible, which of Jacob’s sons was sold into slavery by his jealous brothers? A: Joseph
Q: Roman numerals MCMLXVIII represent which year? A: 1968
Q: Sandra, Gerry, Jack and Brian are all characters in which UK television fictional crime series? A: New Tricks
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Blades’? A: Sheffield United
Q: A ‘Bloody Maria’ cocktail traditionally contains which spirit? A: Tequila
Q: Sri Lanka lies in which ocean? A: Indian Ocean
Q: Which singer-songwriter wrote the hit single ‘The First Cut is the Deepest’? A: Cat Stevens
Q: Which British Prime Minister was the 1st Earl of Stockton? A: Harold Macmillan
Q: How high in feet, normally, is a standard basketball hoop off the ground? A: Ten feet
Q: Who plays Batman in the 2005 film ‘Batman Begins’? A: Christian Bale
Q: Which rugby union team play their home games at the Madejski Stadium? A: London Irish
Q: Which puppet hero is described as ‘Indestructible’? A: Captain Scarlet
Q: Asiago is what type of food product? A: Cheese
Q: Which British singer released albums entitled ’19’ and ’21’? A: Adele
Q: The headquarters of fashion house Hardy Amies is in which London street? A: Savile Row
Q: A ‘Sackbut’ was a medieval forerunner of which musical instrument? A: Trombone
Q: Who was the only US President to have resigned from office? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Carinthia is a state in which European country? A: Austria
Q: Reginald Doherty, Arthur Gore and Fred Perry are associated with which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Which country has the internet domain .au? A: Australia
Q: Sarafina, Banzai and Shenzi are all characters in which Disney series of films? A: The Lion King
Q: Which child of British monarch Queen Elizabeth II was born on 19th February 1960? A: Prince Andrew
Q: In the International Morse Code a dash is equal to how many dots? A: Three
Q: A left-handed boxer is called a ‘what’…paw? A: Southpaw
Q: During which year did the pre-decimal halfpenny coin cease to be legal tender in the UK? A: 1969
Q: What is the name of the dog in Enid Blyton’s ‘Famous Five’? A: Timmy
Q: American singer Frank Castelluccio is better known by what name? A: Frankie Valli
Q: The fruit ‘Carambola’ is better known by what name? A: Star fruit
Q: The character Miss Froy goes missing on a train in which 1938 Hitchcock film? A: The Lady Vanishes
Q: Hibernia was the Roman name for which European country? A: Ireland
Q: Devil’s Lair, Jacob’s Creek and Banrock Station are all wines from which country? A: Australia
Q: Who shot former US President Ronald Reagan in March 1981? A: John Hinckley Jr
Q: In Greek mythology, who fell in love with and appeared in the form of a white bull to Europa and carried her off to Crete? A: Zeus
Q: Who wrote the ‘Twilight’ series of books? A: Stephenie Meyer
Q: ‘Donnerstag’ is German for which day of the week? A: Thursday
Q: The International Olympic Committee is based in which European city? A: Lausanne
Q: In 1918 which newspaper mogul became the first UK Minister of Information? A: Lord Beaverbrook
Q: Which word represents the letter M in the NATO Phonetic Alphabet? A: Mike
Q: Xylography is the art of engraving on which natural substance? A: Wood
Q: Elizabeth, Jane, Mary, Lydia and Kitty are all characters in which novel by Jane Austen? A: Pride and Prejudice
Q: Darius Danesh (Campbell) became the youngest actor to play the role of Billy Flynn in which Broadway musical since it opened in 1975? A: Chicago
Q: Otology is the study of which part of the body? A: Ear
Q: In the nursery rhyme ‘Ding Dong Bell’, who put the cat in the well? A: Little Johnny Flynn
Q: A Poorwill is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: The English town of Tewkesbury is in which county? A: Gloucestershire
Q: Dr Alec Harvey and Laura Jesson are the main characters in which 1945 film? A: Brief Encounter
Q: Which US-based retail company has the motto ‘Save Money. Live Better’? A: Walmart
Q: On which side of the road do motorists drive in Cyprus? A: Left
Q: Someone born on the 1st August has which Zodiac sign? A: Leo
Q: Which is the only written number in English that has all its letters in alphabetical order? A: Forty
Q: The city of Cairo lies on which river? A: River Nile
Q: Rhodesian Ridgeback is which breed of animal? A: Dog
Q: In the Disney film Aladdin, what colour is the Genie? A: Blue
Q: How many yards are in a UK mile? A: 1760
Q: ‘That’s All Folks’ is the epitaph of which US comedian? A: Mel Blanc
Q: Which US state has the abreviation AR? A: Arkansas
Q: The country of Sri Lanka was formerly known by what name? A: Ceylon
Q: Which British author created the fictional character George Smiley? A: John Le Carre
Q: Steve Harley was the lead singer in which 1970’s band? A: Cockney Rebel
Q: Brushback, Horsehide, Pearod and Wheelhouse are all terms used in which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Which comedy duo starred in the 1942 film ‘Rio Rita’? A: Abbott and Costello
Q: On the UK television game show ‘The Chase’, which chaser is known as the Dark Destroyer? A: Shaun Wallace
Q: Arthur Balfour was British Prime Minister during the reign of which monarch? A: Edward VII
Q: The hormone prolactin stimulates the production of what after childbirth? A: Milk
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Exodus’? A: Leon Uris
Q: A fugu is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: What is the name of the scarecrow in the children’s television series ‘Bob the Builder’? A: Spud
Q: Theravada and Mahayana are the main branches of which religion? A: Buddhism
Q: In Greek mythology, which king of Phrygia was given the gift to turn everything he touched into gold? A: King Midas
Q: Disc jockey John Ravenscroft was better known by what name? A: John Peel
Q: Dipsomania is an uncontrollable craving for what? A: Alcohol
Q: Lillehammer, the host of the 1994 Winter Olympic Games, is in which country? A: Norway
Q: Kirk Douglas played the title role in which 1960 film about Roman slaves? A: Spartacus
Q: In human anatomy, what is the first part of the intestine, located immediately beyond the stomach? A: Duodenum
Q: Pseudocarp relates to which type of crop? A: Fruit
Q: What is the US state capital of Maryland? A: Annapolis
Q: What is a young pilchard called? A: Sardine
Q: In UK pre-decimal coinage, how many farthings were in one penny? A: Four
Q: Who plays Wilhelmina Slater in the US television series ‘Ugly Betty’? A: Vanessa Williams
Q: ‘There shall be no more cakes and ale’ is a line from which Shakespeare play? A: Twelfth Night
Q: In the human body, a set of well-developed abdominal muscles is known as a ‘What’…pack’? A: Six
Q: Who was appointed Creative Director of Paris fashion house Chloe in 1997? A: Stella McCartney
Q: Morado is Spanish for which colour? A: Purple
Q: Heathrow Airport is on which London underground line? A: Piccadilly Line
Q: Joe Buck and Rico Rizzo are characters in which 1965 novel by James Leo Herlihy? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: Which religious figure wears the Ring of the Fisherman? A: The Pope
Q: Who was Britain’s last Liberal Prime Minister? A: David Lloyd George
Q: In the game of golf, a ‘Condor’ is how many strokes under par for a hole? A: Four
Q: Which animal is known as the Ship of the Desert? A: Camel
Q: What was the name of the supertanker that ran aground between Land’s End and the Scilly Isles in March 1967? A: Torrey Canyon
Q: In September 1968, Marcelo Caetano became Prime Minister of which European country? A: Portugal
Q: Which book by Harper Lee won the 1961 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction? A: To Kill a Mocking Bird
Q: In 1964, what was The Supremes first number one hit single in the US? A: Where Did Our Love Go
Q: Which country hosted the 1962 FIFA World Cup? A: Chile
Q: Who assassinated US Senator Robert F Kennedy in June 1968? A: Sirhan Sirhan
Q: Which aircraft made its first trans-US flight from Seattle to New York in 1969? A: Concorde
Q: Which fashion designer created the miniskirt in 1964? A: Mary Quant
Q: Which golfer won the Masters Tournament and the British Open in 1966? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: Which English politician made his ‘Rivers of Blood’ Speech in April 1968? A: Enoch Powell
Q: In 1964, murderers Gwynne Owen Evans and Peter Anthony Allen were the last people to be hanged in which UK country? A: England
Q: In 1964, Terence Conran opened his first of which chain of shops in Fulham Road, London? A: Habitat
Q: Which English pirate radio station was founded by Ronan O’Rahilly in 1964? A: Radio Caroline
Q: What was the name of the chimp that was sent into space in Project Mercury mission MR-2 in January 1961? A: Ham
Q: Phantom IV, Silver Wraith and Silver Dawn are all models of which car? A: Rolls Royce
Q: What is the name of the temple on the Athenian Acropolis? A: The Parthenon
Q: ‘Rosie Lee’ is cockney rhyming slang for what? A: Tea
Q: Who played Police Chief Martin Brody in the 1978 film ‘Jaws 2’? A: Roy Scheider
Q: What is the National Flower of England? A: Rose
Q: The testicles of a calf cooked and served as food are known as ‘Prairie….’what’? A: Oysters
Q: In Greek mythology, who was awarded the armour of the dead Achilles, after competing for it with Ajax? A: Odysseus
Q: Which sportsman was known as the ‘Louisville Lip’? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: Helena Bonham Carter and Meat Loaf appear in which 1999 film starring Brad Pitt? A: Fight Club
Q: On the human body, the axilla is better known as what? A: Armpit
Q: Which film starring Judy Garland was based on a novel by L Frank Baum? A: The Wizard of Oz
Q: The English town of Colchester lies on which river? A: River Colne
Q: ‘People in the Sun’ is the work of which American artist? A: Edward Hopper
Q: In the British monarchy, who succeeded King George III to the throne? A: King George IV
Q: Francois Fillon was appointed Prime minister of which country in May 2007? A: France
Q: What is the capital of Germany? A: Berlin
Q: Harry, Liam, Niall, Louis and Zayn are all members of which British boy band? A: One Direction
Q: In 1992, who became the first female Director-General of the British Security Service MI5? A: Stella Rimington
Q: What is the the first name of the Hungarian inventor of the Rubik’s Cube? A: Erno
Q: Usually affecting children, the medical condition pertussis is better known by what name? A: Whooping cough
Q: Babcock, Elberta and Rubidoux are all varieties of which fruit? A: Peach
Q: Who won the Golden Shoe (Boot) Award for most goals scored in the 1966 FIFA World Cup? A: Eusebio
Q: In Tolkien’s ‘The Hobbit’ who is the leader of the Company of Dwarves? A: Thorin Oakenshield
Q: In America, a run-down part of a town, frequented by vagrants and alcoholics, is known informally as ‘Skid…what’? A: Row
Q: What is the art of preparing, stuffing and mounting the skins of animals for display called? A: Taxidermy
Q: The Sundance Film Festival takes place annually in which US state? A: Utah
Q: On a London Underground train map which colour depicts the Circle Line? A: Yellow
Q: Who wrote the ‘Discworld’ Series of books? A: Terry Pratchett
Q: In the game of Bingo, which number is known as ‘Fat Lady With a Crutch’? A: 87
Q: Persil is the French name for which herb? A: Parsley
Q: Dancer and actress Virginia McMath was better known by what name? A: Ginger Rogers
Q: The city of Buffalo lies on which North American Great Lake? A: Lake Erie
Q: Which British celebrity had a pet called Fanny the Wonderdog? A: Julian Clary
Q: Who played Mr Darcy in the 1995 television series ‘Pride and Prejudice’? A: Colin Firth
Q: The Roman goddess Ceres is the protector of what? A: Crops
Q: Which English author wrote The Kate Hannigan series, The Mallen novels and The Tilly Trotter trilogy? A: Catherine Cookson
Q: Malmsey is a type of which alcoholic drink? A: Wine
Q: In which century was the Royal Greenwich Observatory opened in London? A: 17th Century
Q: Which James Bond film was named after Ian Fleming’s home in Jamaica? A: Goldeneye
Q: Who wrote the 1961 play ‘The Night of the Iguana’? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: A heitiki would normally be worn round which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: Which British comedian hosts a television programme called ‘TV Burp’? A: Harry Hill
Q: In Greek mythology what is the drink of the gods? A: Nectar
Q: Which 1999 film starring Tom Hanks is set in a Louisiana prison? A: The Green Mile
Q: In which South African country was Australian rugby player George Gregan born? A: Zambia
Q: In May 1936 the first flight by which Irish airline took place between Dublin and Bristol? A: Aer Lingus
Q: How many Oscars did the film ‘Avatar’ win at the 2010 Academy Awards? A: Three
Q: Louisville, Kentucky, USA was named after which French monarch? A: King Louis XVI
Q: The island groups Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao form which country? A: The Philippines
Q: The lemur is endemic to which island? A: Madagascar
Q: Jazz musician Benny Goodman was famous for playing which instrument? A: Clarinet
Q: Columbia University is in which US city? A: New York
Q: Henrietta Maria was the French wife of which British monarch? A: King Charles I
Q: Who played football coach Dave Dodds in the 2001 film ‘Mike Bassett:England Manager’? A: Bradley Walsh
Q: Mrs Grose and Miss Jessel appear in which novella by Henry James? A: The Turn of the Screw
Q: Who wrote the 1951 novel ‘The Catcher in the Rye’? A: J D Salinger
Q: English soothsayer and prophetess Ursula Southill was better known as ‘Mother…who’? A: Shipton
Q: ‘Touch the rainbow. Taste the rainbow’ is the advertising slogan for which confectionery product? A: Skittles
Q: Chemist and physicist Marie Curie was born in which modern-day European country? A: Poland
Q: What is cartoon cat Garfield’s favourite food? A: Lasagne
Q: Which post in the UK did Rowan Williams take up in February 2003? A: Archbishop of Canterbury
Q: The Fountain of Wealth is in which Asian city? A: Singapore
Q: In cooking which herb is traditionally used to make Bernaise Sauce? A: Tarragon
Q: British singer Stuart Goddard is better known by what name? A: Adam Ant
Q: On which part of the body would a piece of armour called a brassard be worn? A: Arm
Q: An autotonsorialist is a person who cuts their own what? A: Hair
Q: What is the name of the stainless steel sculpture, by William Pye, in London’s Greenland Dock? A: Curlicue
Q: Who is generally credited with building the first reflecting telescope? A: Isaac Newton
Q: Persephone is the Greek goddess of which season? A: Spring
Q: The Prince Edward Islands in the Indian ocean are part of which country? A: South Africa
Q: Steve Halliwell plays which character in the UK television soap ‘Emmerdale’? A: Zak Dingle
Q: What is the square root of 361? A: 19
Q: In which country were the first Olympic Games held in the Southern Hemisphere? A: Australia
Q: How many players are on the field in a rugby union team? A: 15
Q: Mittwoch is German for which day of the week? A: Wednesday
Q: What is the name of the Indian python in Rudyard Kipling’s ‘Jungle Book’? A: Kaa
Q: Which word is used for the score of zero in a game of tennis? A: Love
Q: How many months of the year have only 30 days? A: Four
Q: Who played Fred Flinstone in the 1994 film ‘The Flintstones’? A: John Goodman
Q: Dr Robert Langdon is a fictional character in a series of novels by which author? A: Dan Brown
Q: Ombrophobia is an irrational fear of which weather condition? A: Rain
Q: Athlete Francis Morgan Thompson is better known by what name? A: Daley Thompson
Q: The Brix Scale is a system used in the US to measure the content of what in grapes and wine? A: Sugar
Q: The Painted Desert is in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: In religion, according to Islam, who was the last of the prophets? A: Muhammed
Q: What are the two inferior planets in our solar system? A: Mercury and Venus
Q: British actor Henry Cavill has been chosen to play which superhero in a film due to be released in 2013? A: Superman
Q: The full moon seen closest to the time of the Autumn Equinox is commonly known as what? A: Harvest Moon
Q: Which English football club won the FA Cup in 2009? A: Chelsea
Q: Which notorious murderer is depicted in the 2001 film ‘From Hell’? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: A grunion is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Which 1997 film, directed by Quentin Tarantino, is based on Elmore Leonard’s novel ‘Rum Punch’? A: Jackie Brown
Q: The crab represents which sign of the Zodiac? A: Cancer
Q: The sclera is the white outer layer of which part of the human body? A: Eyeball
Q: Barry Butler, who was killed in a car accident in 1966, was the captain of which English football team? A: Norwich City FC
Q: Which soft drink ‘Gives you wings’? A: Red Bull
Q: Ann Davison became the first woman to single-handedly sail which body of water in 1952? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: What is the title of the Arthur Conan Doyle novel in which Sherlock Holmes made his first appearance? A: A Study in Scarlet
Q: What is sodium bicarbonate known as in the kitchen? A: Baking Soda
Q: Millbank Prison, which closed in 1890, was located near which English river? A: River Thames
Q: Who did Ringo Starr replace as the Beatles drummer in August 1962? A: Pete Best
Q: Lachanophobia is the irrational fear of which food items? A: Vegetables
Q: What were said to have been built at the orders of Nebuchadnezzar II in order to stop his wife feeling homesick? A: The Hanging Gardens of Babylon
Q: What type of root does a dandelion have? A: Taproot
Q: What was the name of England’s first offshore Pirate Radio station? A: Radio Caroline
Q: Who was the trainer of three-times English Grand National winner Red Rum? A: Donald ‘Ginger’ McCain
Q: In the nursery rhyme who cut off the ‘Three Blind Mice’ tails? A: The Farmer’s Wife
Q: Which band released a 2003 album entitled ‘Youth and Young Manhood’? A: Kings of Leon
Q: What colour is the dragon on the national flag of Wales? A: Red
Q: Which opera by Verdi is based on the Alexander Dumas book ‘La Dame aux Camelias’? A: La Traviata
Q: Which Apollo spacecraft landed on the Moon in February 1971? A: Apollo 14
Q: Which letter of the alphabet is represented by one dot in the International Morse Code? A: E
Q: ‘Parky’ is the nickname of which former British talk show host? A: Michael Parkinson
Q: Which British darts player is known by the nickname ‘Mr Glitter’? A: Bobby George
Q: How many paintings make up William Hogarth’s ‘A Rake’s Progress’? A: Eight
Q: According to the Bible, Jesus was at a wedding in Cana when he turned water into what? A: Wine
Q: Political Aide Alastair Campbell was best known as Director of Communications and Strategy for which British Prime Minister? A: Tony Blair
Q: The headquarters of UEFA (Union of European Football Associations) is in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: In Greek mythology Eurystheus imposed twelve labours on which of his cousins? A: Hercules (Heracles)
Q: Mora-Siljan Airport is in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: ‘Canard’ is French for which creature? A: Duck
Q: Which former US President is often referred to as LBJ? A: Lyndon Baines Johnson
Q: Ursula, Sebastian and Flounder are all characters in which Disney film? A: The Little Mermaid
Q: Fragrant essential oil Attar is typically made from the petals of which flower? A: Rose
Q: Who directed the 1988 film ‘Beetle Juice’? A: Tim Burton
Q: The Jet d’Eau Fountain is in which European city? A: Geneva
Q: In London, the Lord Mayor’s Show takes place on the second Saturday of which month? A: November
Q: Which month of the Gregorian calendar was originally the first month of the Roman calendar? A: March
Q: What was the first name of the wife of late singer/musician Marc Bolan? A: June
Q: All Hallows’ Eve is celebrated on the last day of which month? A: October
Q: Valentine’s Day falls during which month of the year? A: February
Q: Which month is mentioned in the Four Seasons song ‘Oh What A Night’? A: December
Q: In Scotland, Burns Night is celebrated during which month of the year? A: January
Q: The gemstone pearl represents which month of the year? A: June
Q: In Britain, which month sees the start of The Grouse Season? A: August
Q: During which month in 1912 did RMS Titanic strike an iceberg and sink? A: April
Q: Author H E Bates wrote the novel ‘The Darling Buds of….when’? A: May
Q: During which month of 1533 was Queen Elizabeth I of England born? A: September
Q: St David’s Day (the Patron Saint of Wales) is celebrated during which month of the year? A: March
Q: St Nicholas Day (the Patron Saint of Children) is traditionally celebrated on the 6th of which month? A: December
Q: During which month is the Men’s Tennis Championship final held at Wimbledon? A: July
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Ba? A: Barium
Q: Which British television series was first broadcast in 1983 as a single drama called ‘Woodentop’? A: The Bill
Q: French actress Dany Robin made her only ‘Carry On’ appearance in which 1966 film? A: Don’t Lose Your Head
Q: Where is US sculptor Gutzon Borglum’s largest and most famous work? A: Mount Rushmore, South Dakota
Q: Who’s autobiography is entitled ‘The Naked Civil Servant’? A: Quentin Crisp
Q: Which former US President was given the nickname ‘Dubya’? A: George W Bush
Q: Umberto II (nicknamed the King of May) was the last king of which European country between 9th May and 12th June 1946? A: Italy
Q: The EEC (European Economic Community) was created by the 1957 ‘Treaty of….’where’?. A: Rome
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Little Boy Blue’ is the nickname for which number? A: Two
Q: Anchor, Honeycomb, Satin and Faggot are all what? A: Embroidery stitches
Q: Who played Mr Brown in the 1991 film ‘Reservoir Dogs’? A: Quentin Tarantino
Q: In the UK, Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh’s, birthday is celebrated during which month? A: June
Q: In 1994 Wendy Toms became the first female official in which sport? A: Football League
Q: Which actress played the role of Cora Smith in the 1946 film ‘The Postman Always Rings Twice’? A: Lana Turner
Q: Joseph Cyril Bamford was the founder of which British company in 1945? A: JCB
Q: Who was US gossip columnist Hedda Hopper’s friend turned arch-rival? A: Louella Parsons
Q: Who played the role of Georgiana Cavendish in the 2008 film ‘The Duchess’? A: Keira Knightly
Q: In poetry, how many lines are in a clerihew? A: Four
Q: Which country hosted the 2000 Summer Olympic Games? A: Australia
Q: Which English poet wrote ‘Arms and the Boy’? A: Wilfred Owen
Q: A podiatrist works on which part of the human body? A: Feet
Q: How many properties are on a standard Monopoly board? A: 28
Q: Puppet Troy Tempest, from the television series ‘Stingray’, was said to have been modelled on which US actor? A: James Garner
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in May 1937? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: Which river forms the boundary between Burma and Thailand? A: Salween River
Q: Chionophobia is the irrational fear of which weather condition? A: Snow
Q: Caroline of Ansbach was the wife of which British monarch? A: King George II
Q: ‘The Hunting of the …’what’? is a poem by Lewis Carroll? A: Snark
Q: Lake Malaren is in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: Who sang the theme song to the 1963 James Bond film ‘From Russia With Love’? A: Matt Monroe
Q: Which South American country is bordered on the north by Venezuela, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana? A: Brazil
Q: Who has appeared on the cover of Playboy magazine more times than any other woman? A: Pamela Anderson
Q: In the television cartoon series, which town is the home of ‘The Flintstones’? A: Bedrock
Q: ‘Here Comes the Fuzz’ was the 2003 debut album of which English dj and musician? A: Mark Ronson
Q: A ‘Picture Palace’ is an old-fashioned term for what? A: Cinema
Q: The Ambassador Bridge, which connects the US with Canada, spans which river? A: Detroit River
Q: Foucault’s Pendulum, which demonstrated the rotation of the Earth, was staged in which European city in 1851? A: Paris
Q: Who plays groundsman Carl Spackler in the 1980 film ‘Caddyshack’? A: Bill Murray
Q: Which part of their body do butterflies taste with? A: Feet
Q: The Sheffield Shield is competed for by teams of cricketers in which country? A: Australia
Q: In the Disney film ‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs’, what did the dwarfs mine for? A: Diamonds
Q: A Russian woman was arrested in Paris in August 2009 for throwing a cup of tea at which work of art? A: The Mona Lisa
Q: ‘Prithee’ is an ancient word which means what today? A: Please
Q: ‘Trust pink, Forget stains’ is the advertising slogan for which brand of laundry product? A: Vanish
Q: In January 2012, who became the new presenter of the UK television show ‘Countdown’? A: Nick Hewer
Q: In Shakespeare’s ‘Othello’, what is the name of Othello’s lieutenant? A: Michael Cassio
Q: Lincoln’s Inn, Inner Temple, Middle Temple and Gray’s Temple are known collectively as what? A: The Inns of Court
Q: A Sharif, a descendant of Muhammed through his daughter Fatima, is entitled to wear which colour turban or veil? A: Green
Q: The glass-walled railway bridge, known locally as Hielanman’s Umbrella, is located in which British city? A: Glasgow
Q: Cuddles the Monkey was a puppet of which British television presenter/ventriloquist? A: Keith Harris
Q: The tomb of William the Conqueror is in which French city? A: Caen
Q: A simcha is a private party or celebration in which religion? A: Judaism
Q: Who conducted the wedding in the poem ‘The Owl and the Pussycat’ by Edward Lear? A: The Turkey
Q: Which 18th Century English historian wrote ‘The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire? A: Edward Gibbon
Q: What was the first name of American author F Scott Fitzgerald? A: Francis
Q: Which nation’s football team were the runners up in the 2006 FIFA World Cup? A: France
Q: In humans, atelectasis affects which part of the body? A: Lungs
Q: What is the official language of Chile? A: Spanish
Q: Framboise is French for which fruit? A: Raspberry
Q: In the US television series ‘The Simpsons’, what colour is Lisa’s necklace? A: White
Q: Which song by Irish band U2 is a tribute to Martin Luther King Jr? A: Pride (In the Name of Love)
Q: According to the proverb, ‘Too many cooks spoil the….’what’? A: Broth
Q: Cochin, Red Shaver and Sulmtaler are breeds of which bird? A: Chicken
Q: On a QWERTY keyboard, which letter lies between C and B? A: V
Q: Death Valley is in which US state? A: California
Q: What is the capital of Sicily? A: Palermo
Q: Which Shakespearian character said ‘But soft, what light through yonder window breaks’? A: Romeo
Q: How many holes are on a classic cribbage board? A: 121
Q: Sago is extracted from which plant? A: Palm
Q: What colour light indicates the starboard side of a ship? A: Green
Q: What is the name of the galaxy that contains the Earth? A: Milky Way
Q: In the human body, the hormone cortisol (or hydrocortisone) is produced by which gland? A: Adrenal gland
Q: In which English city is Preston Park railway station? A: Brighton
Q: In Roman mythology, Aestas is the goddess of which season? A: Summer
Q: Which US President is depicted on a $5 bill? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Seal Point and Blue Point are types of which cat? A: Siamese
Q: How many gills are in an Imperial pint? A: Four
Q: The Estadio de Maracana football stadium is in which country? A: Brazil
Q: Chinese Restaurant Syndrome, a collection of symptoms caused in some people after eating Chinese food, is said to be caused by which food additive? A: Monosodium glutamate (MSG)
Q: What is the national flower of Australia? A: Golden Wattle
Q: What is the first name of comic-book hero Captain Marvel’s twin sister? A: Mary
Q: Which actor replaced Charlie Sheen in the US television series ‘Two and a Half Men’? A: Ashton Kutcher
Q: In boxing, what is thrown into the ring to stop a fight? A: Towel
Q: In which building is London’s Whispering Gallery? A: St Paul’s Cathedral
Q: In mathematics, what is 3.14159 better known as? A: Pi
Q: Which is the only planet in out solar system not named after a god? A: Earth
Q: Which is the softest mineral on the Mohs Scale? A: Talc
Q: Which is the largest ocean on Earth? A: Pacific
Q: Which is the longest river in the world? A: River Nile
Q: What colour is a polar bears skin? A: Black
Q: The bark of which tree was the original source of making aspirin? A: Willow
Q: Which desert in Chile is the driest in the world? A: Atacama Desert
Q: What are the formations of calcium carbonate which hang down from the roof of a cave? A: Stalactites
Q: What is the green pigment called which is found in nearly all plants? A: Chlorophyll
Q: How many points do snowflakes have? A: Six
Q: Nephology is the study of what? A: Clouds
Q: Which English scientist first described the colours of the rainbow as ‘numbering seven’? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: Rafflesia Arnoldii, the world’s largest flower, is better known by what name? A: Corpse Flower
Q: The largest individual tree in the world, a Giant Redwood, is known by what name? A: General Sherman
Q: Cattleya Labiata is a species of which exotic flowering plant? A: Orchid
Q: Who was British Prime Minister in 1994? A: John Major
Q: Which British cricket commentator died in January 1994, aged 81? A: Brian Johnston
Q: In February 1994 which painting by Edvard Munch was stolen from a gallery in Oslo? A: The Scream
Q: Which Steven Spielberg film won seven Oscars in March 1994? A: Schindler’s List
Q: Which English football club won the 1994 FA Cup? A: Manchester United
Q: Which US singer did Lisa Marie Presley marry in May 1994? A: Michael Jackson
Q: Who took over as host of BBC’s Question Time In January 1994? A: David Dimbleby
Q: Which US Olympic figure skater attacked her rival Nancy Kerrigan during a 1994 practice session? A: Tonya Harding
Q: Which band had a 1994 Christmas number one single in the UK with ‘Stay Another Day’? A: East 17
Q: In 1994 which consortium was granted the licence to run the UK’s first National Lottery? A: Camelot Group
Q: Who was inaugurated as South Africa’s first black President in May 1994? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Which nation won the 1994 FIFA World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: In which month in 1994 was the Channel Tunnel officially opened between England and France? A: May
Q: Which boxer wont the WBA and IBF World Heavyweight Championships in 1994, becoming the oldest heavyweight champion in history? A: George Foreman
Q: Which US singer received the Legend Award at the 1994 Grammy Awards? A: Frank Sinatra
Q: In Europe which colour denotes runs for expert skiers? A: Black
Q: Andrew Motion, Cecil Day-Lewis and John Betjemin all held which post? A: Poet Laureate
Q: How many US Presidents have resigned from office? A: One
Q: What was the currency of Austria before the Euro? A: Austrian Schilling
Q: In Greek mythology who became the first queen of Crete? A: Europa
Q: The European country of Switzerland is made up of how many cantons? A: 26
Q: In the game of volleyball, how many times in a row may the ball be struck by one team? A: Three
Q: Which English author’s major novels are set in Wessex? A: Thomas hardy
Q: In humans, somnology is the scientific study of what? A: Sleep
Q: In the game of darts, what score is known as ‘Bag O’nuts’? A: 45
Q: Which singer/songwriter wrote the musical ‘9 to 5’? A: Dolly Parton
Q: In the International Morse Code which letter is represented by two dashes? A: M
Q: Larry Mullen Jr is the drummer in which Irish band? A: U2
Q: The NASDAQ Stock Exchange is located in which city? A: New York
Q: Annapurna is a section of which mountain range? A: Himalayas
Q: ‘Dangerously In Love’ and ‘B’Day’ are albums by which US singer? A: Beyonce Knowles
Q: Which month of the year comes first alphabetically? A: April
Q: How many stars are there on the national flag of Australia? A: Six
Q: Box, Stunt and Delta-Wing are all types of which flying object? A: Kite
Q: Clinophobia is the irrational fear of going where? A: To bed
Q: The Eurasian Basin is part of which ocean? A: Arctic Ocean
Q: Caprine relates to which animal? A: Goat
Q: Red Grant is the name of the villain in which James Bond film? A: From Russia With Love
Q: Pierogi, dumplings of unleavened bread, originated in which European country? A: Poland
Q: The line ‘Water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink’ comes from which poem? A: The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
Q: The Peroni Brewery is based in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Not including Sundays, how many days are there in Lent? A: 40
Q: Bluewater Shopping Centre is located in which English county? A: Kent
Q: Who became the mother-in-law of England rugby player Mike Tindall in 2011? A: Princess Anne (Princess Royal)
Q: Which breed of dog is the cartoon dog Marmaduke? A: Great Dane
Q: Which US President famously said ‘I’m not a crook’? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Magere Brug, or Skinny Bridge is located in which European city? A: Amsterdam
Q: The English Civil War took place in which century? A: 17th Century
Q: Which musical instrument does fictional detective Sherlock Holmes play? A: Violin
Q: When You’re Strange is a tribute band to which band? A: The Doors
Q: Dorchester Heights is a historic district of which US city? A: Boston
Q: Herb Alpert and Jerry Moss founded which American record label in 1962? A: A & M Records
Q: In a standard game of chess, how many rooks does each player start with? A: Two
Q: What is the name of the presenter/food eater in the US television series ‘Man v. Food’? A: Adam Richman
Q: In nature, Buttress, Tap and Strangler are all types of what? A: Root
Q: Which English fruit merchant and amateur sailor returned to Portsmouth, England, on 4th July 1968, after sailing round the world in 354 days? A: Alec Rose
Q: What is the name of the spaceship in the 1979 film ‘Alien’? A: Nostromo
Q: What is the name of the rich fruit cake, with a layer of marzipan on top, and sometimes inside, eaten at Easter? A: Simnel Cake
Q: The phrase ‘Listen very carefully, I will say this only once’ comes from which UK television comedy series? A: ‘Allo ‘Allo
Q: The US television series ‘The Wire’ is set in which city? A: Baltimore
Q: Lacrimal fluid lubricates which part of the human body? A: Eyes
Q: Grape Nehi (Knee-high) was the favourite drink of which M*A*S*H* character? A: Radar O’Reilly
Q: Newmarket, Cheltenham and Epsom are towns in England associated with which sport? A: Horse racing
Q: In the UK the clocks move forward an hour during which month of the year? A: March
Q: Which Thomas hardy novel is often referred to in the book ‘Fifty Shades of Grey’ by E L James? A: Tess of the D’Urbervilles
Q: Which bespoke gentleman’s tailor is located at No 1 Savile Row, London? A: Gieves & Hawkes
Q: English poet John Keats is buried in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Xylology is the study of which natural substance? A: Wood
Q: In the human body, Stress, Greenstick and Compound are all types of what? A: Bone fracture
Q: At which European winter sports resort is the Cresta Run? A: St Moritz
Q: What is the collective name for the first ten amendments of the United States Constitution? A: Bill of Rights
Q: How many Cardinal Virtues are there? A: Four
Q: A pentadecagon has how many sides? A: 15
Q: What colour Cat’s-Eyes mark the nearside of a motorway in Britain? A: Red
Q: According to the proverb, ‘Many hands make… ‘what’? A: Light work
Q: Which breed of bird was used in mines to detect dangerous gases? A: Canary
Q: In Greek mythology which of the three Gorgons was the only mortal? A: Medusa
Q: Which member of The Beatles returned his MBE medal in protest against the British government’s support of the US war in Vietnam? A: John Lennon
Q: Mark Renton, Daniel Murphy and Francis Begbie are all characters in which 1993 novel? A: Trainspotting
Q: In which British city is Ninian Park railway station? A: Cardiff
Q: Which country hosted the first Rugby World Cup in which every match was held in one country? A: South Africa
Q: What is the name of the female pie-maker in the 2007 film ‘Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street’? A: Mrs Lovett
Q: In the 1990’s which supermodel famously fell over on the catwalk while wearing a pair of Vivienne Westwood shoes? A: Naomi Campbell
Q: What was the name of the Los Angeles hotel in which Robert F Kennedy was shot in June 1968? A: Ambassador Hotel
Q: During which month of the year was William Shakespeare born? A: April
Q: A ‘pod’ is a group of which mammals? A: Whales
Q: Oliver Mellors was the lover of which fictional character? A: Lady Chatterley
Q: What are the first names of crime writer P D James? A: Phyllis Dorothy
Q: Which confectionery items are named after Forrest Mars and Bruce Murrie? A: M&M’s
Q: Which crime writer’s first published novel is entitled ‘The Mysterious Affair at Styles’? A: Agatha Christie
Q: In astronomy, how many stars make up The Plough? A: Seven
Q: Statues of Hans Christian Anderson, William Shakespeare, Christopher Columbus and Alice in Wonderland are located in which famous park? A: Central Park
Q: A Shar Pei is what type of animal? A: Dog
Q: In which European city is the famous Arch of Hadrian? A: Athens
Q: How many matching numbers are required to win a prize in the UK National Lottery? A: Three
Q: Who plays escaped convict Ulysses Everett McGill in the 2000 film ‘O Brother, Where Art Thou’? A: George Clooney
Q: 1986 saw the 900th anniversary of which famous English book? A: The Domesday Book
Q: Which company manufactured the Tristar aircraft? A: Lockheed
Q: Who was leader of the British Conservative Party  between June 1997 and September 2001? A: William Hague
Q: The city of Dubrovnik is in which European country? A: Croatia
Q: Axel, Lutz and Salchow are all terms used in which sport? A: Figure skating
Q: Which British poet wrote ‘A Child’s Christmas in Wales’? A: Dylan Thomas
Q: Sancerre wine is produced in which country? A: France
Q: The Conte Grading System was used by the makers of what? A: Pencils
Q: British comedians Katy, Joe and Russell all share which surname? A: Brand
Q: Manzana is Spanish for which fruit? A: Apple
Q: What was late actress Elizabeth Taylor’s middle name? A: Rosemond
Q: The medical condition Tinea Pedis is better known by what name? A: Athlete’s foot
Q: Oscar Wilde described which ‘sport’ as ‘The unspeakable in full pursuit of the uneatable’? A: Foxhunting
Q: What type of animal is fictional character Babar? A: Elephant
Q: The Bonneville Salt Flats are in which US state? A: Utah
Q: Lutraphobia is the fear of which animals? A: Otters
Q: What was the name given to a series of five yachts owned by former British Prime Minister Edward Heath? A: Morning Cloud
Q: The phrase ‘Trust in God and keep your powder dry’ is attributed to which historical English figure? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: Anderlecht Football Club is based in which European country? A: Belgium
Q: Artists Gustav Klimt and Carl Moll were born in which European country? A: Austria
Q: What is the name of cartoon character Bugs Bunny’s girlfriend? A: Lola Bunny
Q: Which jazz musician and clarinet player was known as the ‘King of Swing’? A: Benny Goodman
Q: Dormant volcano Mount Elbrus is in which mountain range? A: Caucasus
Q: Pulmonary relates to which part of the human body? A: Lungs
Q: Who played tutor Stephen Potter in the 1960 film ‘School for Scoundrels’? A: Alastair Sim
Q: In the British Royal Navy, which rank is between Captain and Rear-Admiral? A: Commodore
Q: What does the largest star on the national flag of Australia represent? A: The Commonwealth
Q: The US animated television series ‘South Park’ is set in which state? A: Colorado
Q: How many moons does the planet Mercury have? A: None
Q: Which English aristocrat and explorer secretly married Elizabeth Throckmorton in 1591? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: Which American football player was nicknamed ‘The Juice’? A: O J Simpson
Q: How many players in one team are on the field in a game of shinty? A: 12
Q: Which television series, created by Russell T Davies, is a spin-off from Doctor Who? A: Torchwood
Q: Jovian relates to which planet in our solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: Which British-based clothing and adult toy company is named after the secretary of the male founder Caborn Waterfield? A: Ann Summers
Q: Which music act closed the Pyramid Stage on Sunday night at Glastonbury in 2011? A: Beyonce
Q: In the UK television game show ‘Deal or No Deal’ what is the lowest amount of money shown in the red box in pounds sterling? A: 1,000
Q: What was the surname of the brother and sister who won the 1980 Wimbledon Mixed Doubles final? A: Austin
Q: The Pedro Miguel lock is on which canal? A: Panama Canal
Q: Who plays Bret Maverick in the 1994 film ‘Maverick’? A: Mel Gibson
Q: The Bayeux Tapestry depicts events leading up to which battle? A: Battle of Hastings
Q: Which 18th Century novelist wrote ‘The History of Tom Jones, A Foundling’? A: Henry Fielding
Q: Vodka, Galliano and fresh orange juice are the ingredients of which cocktail? A: Harvey Wallbanger
Q: In the UK television series ‘On The Buses’, what is the first name of Inspector Blake? A: Cyril
Q: Tower, Albert and Vauxhall are all bridges in which European city? A: London
Q: Francoise de Maintenon was the second wife of which French king? A: Louis XIV
Q: If something is ‘stannic’ which metal does it contain? A: Tin
Q: Hippology is the study of which animal? A: Horse
Q: Brewed by Scottish firm Brewdog, at 41 per cent alcohol content, what is Britain’s strongest beer? A: Sink the Bismark
Q: What is the name of fence 15 on the Aintree Grand National racecourse? A: The Chair
Q: Which British television programme featured Zippy, Bungle and George? A: Rainbow
Q: The thistle is the national emblem of which European country? A: Scotland
Q: Stomatology is the branch of medicine concerned with which part of the human body? A: Mouth
Q: In 1964, which British actor was the first man to appear on the cover of Playboy magazine? A: Peter Sellers
Q: The Batavian Republic is now known by what modern-day name? A: The Netherlands
Q: Sarking is found in which part of a building? A: Roof
Q: Which musical instrument depicts the bird in Prokofiev’s ‘Peter and the Wolf’? A: Flute
Q: Which British monarch had the nickname Silly Billy? A: King William IV
Q: In cooking, 230 degrees Celsius is the equivalent of which gas mark? A: 8
Q: Silence Dogwood was a pseudonym used by which Founding Father of the United States to get his satirical pieces of writing published? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Which British fashion designer created the UK television series ‘The Clothes Show’ in 1986? A: Jeff banks
Q: Which English author’s novels are set in the imaginary county of Barsetshire? A: Anthony Trollope
Q: Bell, Chum, Kohte and Tipi are all types of what? A: Tent
Q: How many bones, altogether, does a horse have in its neck? A: Seven
Q: Cannis Vulpes is the scientific name for which animal? A: Fox
Q: Which Hampshire castle was used for the exterior shots of the UK television series ‘Downton Abbey’? A: Highclere Castle
Q: In fashion Peter Pan, Wing, Eton and Fichu are all types of what? A: Collar
Q: What is the surname of Scottish-born singer and musician Donovan? A: Leitch
Q: Which planet in our solar system is known as ‘The Blue Planet’? A: Earth
Q: Kielce, Olsztyn and Opole are cities in which European country? A: Poland
Q: Who played the title role in the 1996 film ‘Michael Collins’? A: Liam Neeson
Q: Welsh rugby clubs Swansea and Neath joined to form which club? A: Ospreys
Q: Oxonia was the Latin name for which English city? A: Oxford
Q: The then fictional ‘Sarah Siddons Award’, now a real award, is first referred to in the opening scene of which film starring Bette Davis? A: All About Eve
Q: Which singer released a 2009 album entitled ‘Crazy Love’? A: Michael Buble
Q: The first Summer Paralympic Games were hosted by which European city in 1960? A: Rome
Q: What colour ensign is flown on all British merchant navy ships? A: Red
Q: ‘Twittering Machine’, declared ‘degenerate art’ by Adolph Hitler, was the 1922 work of which Swiss-German painter? A: Paul Klee
Q: A serin is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: How wide is a singles tennis court in feet? A: 27 feet
Q: The Star-Spangled Banner is the national anthem of which country? A: USA
Q: Which Australian controversially used a metal bat in 1979? A: Dennis Lillee
Q: The HP-35, launched in 1972, was Hewlett-Packard’s first what? A: Pocket calculator
Q: Sir Leicester Dedlock is a character in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Bleak House
Q: In 1964 who became the first black actor to win an Academy Award in the category ‘Best Actor in a leading Role’? A: Sidney Poitier
Q: The 1985 film ‘A Room With a View’ is set in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Which US President was in office during the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: John F Kennedy
Q: Which American poet and novelist used the pen name Victoria Lucas? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: Xanthic relates to which colour? A: Yellow
Q: Which London Mayor declared war on the pigeons in Trafalgar Square in 2000? A: Ken Livingstone
Q: How many wives did English monarch Edward I have? A: Two
Q: How many books make up the ‘Chronicles of Narnia’ by C S Lewis? A: Seven
Q: Which sport features line-outs, scrums and conversions? A: Rugby
Q: Which spice is known as the ‘Master Spice’? A: Pepper
Q: ‘Don’t Stop Believin’ is a hit song from the cast of which television series? A: Glee
Q: Which famous historic figure tried to blow up the Houses of Parliament in London in 1605 in ‘The Gunpowder Plot’? A: Guy Fawkes
Q: Which 2009 animated film features a floating house suspended by helium balloons? A: Up
Q: The Golden Gate bridge is in which US city? A: San Francisco
Q: The Great Pyramid is in which country? A: Egypt
Q: There are how many in a gross? A: 144
Q: Which fruit from Seville in Spain is usually used to make marmalade? A: Orange
Q: Singer Beyonce Knowles married which rapper in 2008? A: Jay-Z
Q: Which American football team did David Beckham sign up to in 2007? A: Los Angeles Galaxy
Q: Who played Captain Jack Sparrow in the ‘Pirates of the Caribbean’ series of films? A: Johnny Depp
Q: How many ounces in an Imperial pound? A: 16
Q: Pug, Boxer and Chow are all breeds of which animal? A: Dog
Q: Which body of water connects England and France? A: The English Channel
Q: What is the most common element in the Universe? A: Hydrogen
Q: Swiss-born architect, designer and writer Charles-Edouard Jeanneret was better known by what name? A: Le Corbusier
Q: Actress Rachel Weisz married which actor in 2011? A: Daniel Craig
Q: The Pya is a monetary unit of which country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: ‘How To Talk Dirty and Influence People’ is the title of which US comedian’s autobiography? A: Lenny Bruce
Q: How many steeplechase fences are on the Aintree Grand National race course? A: 16
Q: Which British band released a 2002 album entitled ‘A Rush of Blood to the Head’? A: Coldplay
Q: Which English football club play their home games at Ewood park? A: Blackburn Rovers FC
Q: What does ‘Son et Lumiere’ translate to in English? A: Sound and Light
Q: Who plays Violet Crawley, Dowager Countess of Grantham, in the UK television series ‘Downton Abbey’? A: Maggie Smith
Q: Jones the Steam is the driver of which fictional train? A: Ivor the Engine
Q: Scottish Blackface is a breed of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: What is the name of the electric vehicle invented by Clive Sinclair and launched in the UK in 1985? A: C5
Q: Which English singer was described as ‘The barefoot pop princess of the 1960’s’? A: Sandie Shaw
Q: The novel ‘The Day of the Jackal’ is about the attempted assassination of which political figure? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: A sapsucker is what type of bird? A: Woodpecker
Q: What colour Cat’s Eyes mark the offside (right) of a British motorway? A: Amber
Q: How many letters of the English alphabet are used as Roman Numerals? A: Seven
Q: Who wrote the 19th Century play ‘Hedda Gabler’? A: Henrik Ibsen
Q: In which London road is Harrod’s department store? A: Brompton Road
Q: In 2012 the Austrian Mint brought out a 5 coin gold series to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the birth of which artist? A: Gustav Klimt
Q: What was the name of the favourite warhorse of the 1st Duke of Wellington? A: Copenhagen
Q: By what name is Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, known in the satirical magazine ‘Private Eye’? A: Keith
Q: Max de Winter is a fictional character in which novel by Daphne du Maurier? A: Rebecca
Q: If a skateboarder is ‘goofy-footed’, which foot is closest to the front of the board? A: Right foot
Q: Which 1993 film is about the affair between author C S Lewis and poet Joy Grisham? A: Shadowlands
Q: What were the first names of poet W H Auden? A: Wystan Hugh
Q: Who was the first British Prime Minister to serve under Queen Elizabeth II? A: Winston Churchill
Q: How many months of the year end in the letter ‘Y’? A: Four
Q: The Great Smoky Mountains are on the border of which two US states? A: North Carolina and Tennessee
Q: In which British city is Anderston Railway Station? A: Glasgow
Q: Coimetrophobia is the irrational fear of which places? A: Cemeteries
Q: What is the all-seated capacity of Wembley Stadium in London? A: 90,000
Q: Which US President is depicted on a $50 banknote? A: Ulysses S Grant
Q: A tridecagon has how many sides? A: 13
Q: According to the proverb, ‘A bird in the…..’what’…is worth two in the bush’? A: Hand
Q: Who had a 1963 hit with the song ‘Little Boxes’? A: Pete Seger
Q: Milt is the sperm-filled reproductive gland of which type of creature? A: Fish
Q: What is US businessman and politician Mitt Romney’s first name? A: Willard
Q: Which is the northernmost Scandinavian country? A: Norway
Q: In the US television series ‘Spin City’, who played Randall Winston, the dim-witted Mayor of New York City? A: Barry Bostwick
Q: What is a person who makes and sells ladies hats called? A: A milliner
Q: Almere, Tilburg and Breda are all cities in which European country? A: Netherlands
Q: Which US adult film actor is nicknamed ‘The Hedgehog’? A: Ron Jeremy
Q: How many players are on the court in a korfball team? A: Eight
Q: The headquarters of the International Ice Hockey Federation is in which European city? A: Zurich
Q: Which English darts player has the nickname ‘Old Stoneface’? A: John Lowe
Q: In the children’s book ‘King of the Wind’ by Marguerite henry, what is the name of the little golden Arabian stallion? A: Sham
Q: Aestas is the Roman goddess of which season? A: Summer
Q: ‘When are you gonna come down, When are you going to land’, are the opening lyrics to which Elton John song? A: Goodbye Yellow Brick Road
Q: The Imperial Crown of India was created when which British monarch visited Delhi as Emperor of India? A: King George V
Q: Which bird was depicted on a British pre-decimal farthing? A: Wren
Q: Which northern Spanish city is famous for the ‘Running of the Bulls’? A: Pamplona
Q: How many full terms in office did US President F D Roosevelt serve? A: Three
Q: In the human body, Skeletal, Smooth and Cardiac are all types of what? A: Muscle
Q: In which European country was industrialist and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie born in 1835? A: Scotland
Q: Which planet in our solar system lies between Earth and Mercury? A: Venus
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies between 10 and 13? A: 6
Q: The Obvodny Canal is in which European country? A: Russia
Q: Thomas Percy, the 7th Earl of Northumberland, 1st Baron Percy, was executed during the reign of which English monarch? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: Which human rights activist delivered a speech in Cleveland, Ohio in April 1964 entitled ‘The Ballot or the Bullet’? A: Malcolm X
Q: The ‘Aeneid’, an epic poem in 12 books, is the work of which ancient Roman? A: Virgil
Q: ‘Chien’ is French for which animal? A: Dog
Q: Howard Kirk is the fictional university lecturer in which Malcolm Bradbury novel? A: The History Man
Q: Which animal is the national symbol of the Netherlands? A: Lion
Q: Which English club is nicknamed ‘The Cottagers’? A: Fulham FC
Q: Which British city has areas called Anfield and Toxteth? A: Liverpool
Q: Osteology is the study of which part of the human body? A: Bones
Q: Who play the title roles in the 1989 film ‘Tango and Cash’? A: Kurt Russell and Sylvester Stallone
Q: How many fluid ounces in one Imperial pint? A: 20
Q: Equus Ferus Callabus is the scientific name for which animal? A: Horse
Q: A sovereign is a British gold coin worth how much in sterling? A: One pound
Q: How many points are scored for a converted try in Rugby Union? A: Seven
Q: How many bronze lions are at the base of Nelson’s Column in London? A: Four
Q: Who was the first person to commit murder in the Bible? A: Cain
Q: In 2000, who became the first British rower to win gold medals at five consecutive Olympic Games? A: Steven Redgrave
Q: Farrokh Bulsara was the lead singer in which British band? A: Queen (Freddie Mercury)
Q: Aberdeen’s Bridge of Dee has how many arches? A: Seven
Q: The San Siro football stadium is in which European city? A: Milan
Q: Named after his eight year old daughter, Dave Thomas founded which chain of US restaurants in 1969? A: Wendy’s
Q: Which US President is depicted crossing the Delaware River in the 1851 painting by Emanuel Leutze? A: George Washington
Q: What is the official language of Venezuela? A: Spanish
Q: Captain Morgan is a brand of which type of alcoholic drink? A: Rum
Q: In which year was Marie Antoinette, queen of France, executed? A: 1793
Q: Bogus, Cachet, Phosphor and Albino are all terms used in which hobby? A: Stamp Collecting
Q: What is the name of the Gloucestershire home of the Duke of Beaufort? A: Badminton House
Q: Sargassum is what type of plant? A: Seaweed
Q: Which British designer made the miniskirt popular in the 1960’s? A: Mary Quant
Q: Iva Toguri D’Aquino, a US citizen who participated in propaganda broadcasts to allied soldiers during World War II, was better known by what name? A: Tokyo Rose
Q: Wicca is the religion or practice of what? A: Witchcraft
Q: What is a female crab called? A: Hen
Q: Who plays Cinna in the 2012 film ‘The Hunger Games’? A: Lenny Kravitz
Q: A ‘What’…..boom’ is an explosive noise caused by the shock wave of an aircraft travelling faster than the speed of sound? A: Sonic
Q: Which English football club play their home games at The King Poer Stadium? A: Leicester City FC
Q: Which was the first British football club to win the European Cup? A: Celtic FC
Q: What was late US actor/comedian Oliver Hardy’s first name? A: Norvell
Q: Which British composer based an opera on Henry James novella ‘The Turn of the Screw’? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: Who plays Mrs Kay Miniver in the 1942 film ‘Mrs Miniver’? A: Greer Garson
Q: In which English county did the 1963 Great Train Robbery take place? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: How many prisoners were locked in the Bastille in Paris when it was stormed by the people in 1789? A: Seven
Q: In medicine, septicaemia is more commonly known by what name? A: Blood poisoning
Q: Samwise Gamgee, Peregrin Took and Meriadoc Brandybuck are all types of which fictional characters? A: Hobbits
Q: How many Euro coin denominations are there? A: Eight
Q: Which vegetable is served in a dish described as ‘a la Florentine’? A: Spinach
Q: What is the name of the park in San Francisco where, in 1966, the Beatles performed their final official live concert? A: Candlestick Park
Q: For the 2003 film ‘The Italian Job’ actor Jason Statham received driving tuition from which Formula One World Champion? A: Damon Hill
Q: In 1692, on the orders of William III, nearly 80 members of which Scottish clan were massacred at Glen Coe? A: MacDonald
Q: In medicine, a rhinologist is concerned with which part of the human body? A: Nose
Q: In November 2011, a copy of the first issue of Action Comics, featuring the debut of which action hero, sold for 2.6 million dollars? A: Superman
Q: What was the name of Napoleon I’s second wife? A: Marie Louise
Q: A cut of silverside beef is from which part of the animal? A: Hindquarters
Q: A megapode is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Who was the first British monarch to voluntarily abdicate? A: Edward VIII
Q: Pozole is a soup or stew which originated in which country? A: Mexico
Q: In January 1994, US President Bill Clinton and which Russian President signed a series of treaties known as the ‘Kremlin Accords’? A: Boris Yeltsin
Q: If a cavity in the human body is ‘infundibulum’, what shape is it? A: Funnel-shaped
Q: The 2003 documentary drama ‘Touching the Void’ recounts the story of two mountaineers on which mountain range? A: The Andes
Q: What was the title of The Beatles first single for EMI, released in 1962? A: Love Me Do
Q: Aulophobia is the irrational fear of which musical instrument? A: Flute
Q: What colour is Swiss cartoon character ‘Globi’? A: Blue
Q: Who became British Foreign Secretary in May 2010? A: William Hague
Q: Which US golfer’s first names are Eldrick Tont? A: Tiger Woods
Q: How many triple-word squares are there on a standard Scrabble board? A: Eight
Q: In which 1966 Alfred Hitchcock film did Julie Andrews star with Paul Newman? A: Torn Curtain
Q: What does each angle of a regular octagon measure in degrees? A: 135
Q: Which British Prime minister’s first name was Leonard? A: James Callaghan
Q: Which US singer released a 2000 album entitled ‘Music’? A: Madonna
Q: Omonia, Enosis and Anorthosis are football clubs in which European country? A: Cyprus
Q: What does a pluviometer measure? A: Rainfall
Q: Meadowhall Retail Park is in which English city? A: Sheffield
Q: Arbor, Bullet Sinker, Reaper and Wobbler are all terms used in which sport? A: Fishing
Q: According to the proverb, what are you supposed to do ‘before you leap’? A: Look
Q: Which former English cricketer is known by the nickname ‘Bumble’? A: David Lloyd
Q: Felinology is the study of which animal? A: Cat
Q: Who was the first poet to win a Pulitzer Prize posthumously? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: ‘Unobtanium’ is the fictional precious mineral mined in which 2009 film? A: Avatar
Q: What was Spain’s main unit of currency before the Euro? A: Peseta
Q: Car batteries usually have what voltage? A: 12 volts
Q: What is the third event in a men’s decathlon? A: Shot put
Q: Which British politician first said ‘ To jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war’? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Ionic, Doric, Tuscan and Corinthian are all types of which structure? A: Column
Q: In World War II, what were the Maquis part of? A: The French Resistance
Q: Which cartoon character is the official mascot of the Walt Disney company? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which two colours make up the national flag of Austria? A: Red and white
Q: The medical condition aerotitis affects which part of the human body? A: Ear
Q: Deborah Kerr plays governess Anna Leonowens in which 1956 film? A: The King and I
Q: Tattenham Corner is a feature of which British race course? A: Epsom
Q: In the International Morse Code, which letter of the alphabet is represented by one dash? A: T
Q: What is the raised ridge down the centre of a Backgammon board called? A: The Bar
Q: On a clothing care label, what does a circle denote? A: Dry clean only
Q: Major Metcalf, Detective-Sergeant Trotter and Mollie Ralston all feature in which play by Agatha Christie? A: The Mousetrap
Q: How many chains are in a furlong? A: 10
Q: What was the name of the New York City club which launched ‘The Twist’ in the early 1960’s and and where Go-Go dancing originated? A: The Peppermint Lounge
Q: What is the name of Captain Jack Aubrey’s ship in the 2003 film ‘Master and Commander: the Far Side of the World’? A: HMS Surprise
Q: The Rapa Nui are the native Polynesian inhabitants of which island? A: Easter Island (Rapa Nui)
Q: Who was President at the start of the American Civil War? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which two alcoholic drinks are in the ingredients of a ‘Sidecar’ cocktail? A: Brandy and Cointreau
Q: What is the name of the main character featured in the books ‘Chances’, ‘Lady Boss’ and ‘Dangerous Kiss’ by Jackie Collins? A: Lucky Santangelo
Q: In medicine, polydipsia is a non-medical symptom  in which a patient displays an excessive what? A: Thirst
Q: Who plays Judge Turpin in the 2007 film ‘Sweeney Todd: Demon Barber of Fleet Street’? A: Alan Rickman
Q: What number does the scrum half in a rugby union team wear on their shirt? A: 9
Q: Who was elected President of The Philippines in 1965? A: Ferdinand Marcos
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the region beneath the Underworld, where the wicked were sent as punishment for their sins? A: Tartarus
Q: Sion Airport is in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: Which British fashion designer married Lars von Bennigsen in 2002? A: Alice Temperley
Q: A scaup is what type of bird? A: Duck
Q: What is the leader of a boy cub scout pack called? A: Akela
Q: Which English racehorse and Irish Grand National Winner was known as ‘Dessie’? A: Desert Orchid
Q: Which 1965 pop song by The Toys is based on ‘Minuet in G Major’ by J S Bach? A: A Lover’s Concerto
Q: During which year did BBC2 start broadcasting in the UK? A: 1964
Q: On a mobile phone keypad, the letters ‘abc’ are on which number button? A: 2
Q: Which boxer defeated Muhammed Ali at Madison Square Garden in March 1971? A: Joe Frazier
Q: In March 1977, the rings of which planet in our solar system were discovered? A: Uranus
Q: Bill Gates and Paul Allen founded which company in Albuquerque, New Mexico in April 1975? A: Microsoft
Q: Which unsuccessful Apollo program was launched in April 1970? A: Apollo 13
Q: Who resigned as Vice President of the United States in October 1973? A: Spiro T Agnew
Q: In December 1979, which human disease was certified to be eradicated, the first driven to extinction? A: Smallpox
Q: Which nation’s football team won the 1970 FIFA World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: Which ‘army’ was discovered at Xi’an in China in 1974? A: The Terracotta Army
Q: The ‘tea house’ Mellow Yellow opened in which European city in 1972, pioneering the legal sale of cannabis? A: Amsterdam
Q: In February 1973, which US state became the first to post distance in metric signs? A: Ohio
Q: In September 1972, who did Bobby Fischer defeat to become the first American World Chess Champion? A: Boris Spassky
Q: In September 1978, which Pope died after only 33 days of Papacy? A: Pope John Paul I
Q: Which bridge crossing The River Thames did Queen Elizabeth II open on 17th March 1973? A: London Bridge
Q: Pop band ABBA wrote the song ‘Chiquitita’ to commemorate the 1979 ‘International Year of the….’what’? A: Child
Q: Footballer David Beckham, born 2nd May 1975, played for which English football club between 1993 and 2003? A: Manchester United
Q: In Greek mythology who was punished for not returning the love of Echo by falling in love with his own reflection and pining away and dying, with a flower replacing his body? A: Narcissus
Q: What is the name of the farm in the 1995 film to which orphan Flora Poste, played by Kate Beckinsale, is sent to live with her relatives? A: Cold Comfort Farm
Q: Which rapper’s real name is Shawn Carter? A: Jay-Z
Q: In sport, pelota is Spanish for what? A: Ball
Q: Which poet wrote the collection ‘Birthday Letters’? A: Ted Hughes
Q: What was the surname of US outlaw brothers Bob, Jim, Cole and John? A: Younger
Q: Martian relates to which planet in our solar system? A: Mars
Q: The toy ‘Metal Lazy Spring’ is better known by what name? A: Slinky
Q: What is the young of a koala called? A: Joey
Q: Poet and author Oscar Wilde is buried in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Which nation’s football team prevented England from competing in the 1974 FIFA World Cup finals? A: Poland
Q: Which world championship darts player walks onto the stage to the tune of ‘Rabbit’ by Chas and Dave? A: Eric Bristow
Q: What is the fifth planet from the sun? A: Jupiter
Q: Who was the only Canadian-born British Prime Minister? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: In which UK city is Great Victoria Street railway station? A: Belfast
Q: In 1665, Thomas Willett was appointed the first Mayor of which city? A: New York
Q: Sara Lownds was the first wife of which US singer/songwriter? A: Bob Dylan
Q: In French cookery, what is ‘farce’? A: Stuffing
Q: Satyriasis is excessive, often uncontrollable, what in a man? A: Sexual desire
Q: In which Charles Dickens novel does the fictional character Sam Weller appear? A: Pickwick Papers
Q: A septennium is a period of how many years? A: Seven
Q: Swedis-born Nicklas Lidstrom is associated with which sport? A: Ice hockey
Q: Who invented the hovercraft in the 1950’s? A: Christopher Cockerell
Q: Richard Block and David Quayle founded which British-based DIY retailing company in 1969? A: B&Q
Q: Which band released a 2007 album entitled ‘Minutes to Midnight’? A: Linkin Park
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Toffees’? A: Everton FC
Q: Singer Katy Perry married which British comedian in 2010? A: Russell Brand
Q: What was the name of the missionary who is the subject of the 1958 film ‘Inn of the Sixth Happiness’? A: Gladys Aylward
Q: Who was the only female competitor in the 1976 Montreal Olympics not to have been subjected to a sex test? A: Princess Anne
Q: Sororal relates to, or is like, which member of the family? A: Sister
Q: The 2011 film ‘The Hangover Part II’ is set in which country? A: Thailand
Q: Which Japanese car manufacturer features a logo with three red diamonds arranged in the shape of a triangle? A: Mitsubishi
Q: The Pushkin Prize, established in 1881, is awarded for the highest standard of literary excellence to authors from which country? A: Russia
Q: ‘Play the ball as it lies’ is one of the rules of which sport? A: Golf
Q: Which make-up brand is advertised as ‘The make-up of make-up artists’? A: Max Factor
Q: How wide, in inches, is the width of  a wicket in a game of cricket? A: 9 inches
Q: Which martial art means ‘The way of the sword’? A: Kendo
Q: Batterhead, Flam and Rimshot are all terms associated with which musical instrument? A: Drum
Q: What is the name of the famous London museum which houses the most famous collection of wax figures in the world? A: Madame Tussauds
Q: Lithology is the study of which natural substance? A: Rocks
Q: An octadecagon has how many sides? A: 18
Q: Sn is the symbol for which chemical element? A: Tin
Q: Harris, Lewis and Donegal are all types of which fabric? A: Tweed
Q: Souchong is a black variety of what? A: Tea
Q: Who played Squadron Leader Peter Carter, who cheated death, in the 1946 film ‘A Matter of Life and Death’? A: David Niven
Q: What is the name of the python in Rudyard Kipling’s novel ‘The Jungle Book’? A: Kaa
Q: Who won the 1994 Men’s Singles Finals at Wimbledon? A: Pete Sampras
Q: In British politics, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer from November 1990 to May 1993? A: Norman Lamont
Q: Erica Roe, Michael O’Brien and Mark Roberts are all famous for doing what at sports venues? A: Streaking
Q: English monarch Richard I is known by what nickname? A: Richard the Lionheart
Q: Who’s got ‘A Lovely Daughter’ in the 1965 hit by Herman’s Hermits? A: Mrs Brown
Q: A ‘Simoon’ is what type of weather condition? A: Wind
Q: French, Butterfly, Spiderman and Eskimo are all types of what? A: Kiss
Q: The ‘Palmer Method’, developed by Austin Palmer, is a system used in what? A: Handwriting
Q: What do all the numbers on a standard roulette wheel add up to? A: 666
Q: Merlot is French for which bird? A: (Young) Blackbird
Q: Who became English monarch in May 1660? A: King Charles II
Q: How do you address an Ambassador? A: Your Excellency
Q: In 1979, which nation was the first to give limited rights to same-sex couples in a scheme called ‘Unregistered Cohabitation’? A: Netherlands
Q: Actresses Judi Dench, Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith all hold which title? A: Dame
Q: What is the middle name of cartoon character Donald Duck? A: Fauntleroy
Q: Which colour light indicates the port side of a ship? A: Red
Q: How many players are on the field at one time in an American Football team? A: Eleven
Q: ZZ Tripp is a tribute band to which famous band? A: ZZ Top
Q: SHAPE (Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe) is located in which European country? A: Belgium
Q: The 1968 MCC tour of South Africa was cancelled when the South Africans refused to accept the presence of which England cricket player? A: Basil D’Oliveira
Q: What is the name of the holiday camp in the UK television series ‘Hi De Hi’? A: Maplins
Q: In 1966, in an interview with a London Evening Standard reporter, which Beatle stated that they had become ‘More popular than Jesus’? A: John Lennon
Q: What was the name of the Belfast shipyard in which RMS Titanic was built? A: Harland and Wolff
Q: Which actor became the 38th Governor of California, USA in 2003? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: Who was the second wife of US actor Tom Cruise? A: Nicole Kidman
Q: The ‘Squiddy Awards’ (or The Squiddies) are awarded for achievement in what type of publication? A: Comics
Q: American author John Steinbeck was born in which US state? A: California
Q: In astronomy, the ‘Aurora Borealis’ is better known by what name? A: The Northern Lights
Q: The James Bond film ‘You Only Live Twice’ is set in which country? A: Japan
Q: Which two English footballers had a hit single with ‘Diamond Lights’ in 1987? A: Glenn Hoddle and Chris Waddle
Q: Who wrote ‘If you can keep your head when all about you/Are losing theirs and blaming it on you….’? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: How many noggins are in an Imperial pint? A: Four
Q: Who played Phil Archer in the BBC radio series ‘The Archers’? A: Norman Painting
Q: ‘Lovers of the Stinking Rose’ have a great fondness for what? A: Garlic
Q: Broken Heart, Charley Horse, Wish Bone and Brain Freeze are all parts of which board game? A: Operation
Q: In a standard game of chess, how many bishops does each player start with? A: Two
Q: The Nansen Basin contains the lowest part of which ocean? A: Arctic ocean
Q: How many vowels are in the English alphabet? A: Five
Q: Oil of Cloves is traditionally used to treat the pain in which part of the human body? A: Teeth
Q: What is the surname of Del-boy and Rodney in the UK television series ‘Only Fools and Horses’? A: Trotter
Q: What colour ‘Haze’ is the title of a 1967 hit by Jimi Hendrix? A: Purple
Q: What is the capital of France? A: Paris
Q: Who is the voice of Princess Fiona in the Shrek series of films? A: Cameron Diaz
Q: ‘What’s up Doc’ is the catchphrase of which cartoon character? A: Bugs bunny
Q: Which US singer is known by the nickname J Lo? A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: On which fictional planet was Superman born? A: Krypton
Q: If something is biannual how often does it occur? A: Twice a year
Q: Which English artist painted ‘The Hay Wain’? A: John Constable
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’? A: Mark Twain
Q: Which nuts are traditionally used to make pesto sauce? A: Pine nuts
Q: Bill Oddie, Tim Brook Taylor and Graeme Garden created and starred in which UK television sketch show? A: The Goodies
Q: ‘Mince Pies’ is Cockney rhyming slang for which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: How many holes are there, usually, in a ten-pin bowling ball? A: Three
Q: An older woman who is attracted to, and often has sex with, much younger men is named after which member of the cat family? A: Cougar
Q: Serendip was an old name for which modern Asian country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: A spinone is what type of animal? A: Dog
Q: David Vine, David Coleman and Sue Barker have all hosted which BBC television quiz show? A: A Question of Sport
Q: Which motorcycle stuntman set a world record in February 1971, by jumping 19 cars? A: Evel Knievel
Q: The US citizenship of which American Civil War General was restored in 1975? A: General Robert E Lee
Q: What is the title of the only ‘Dirty Harry’ film directed by Clint Eastwood? A: Sudden Impact
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the US Republican Political Party? A: Elephant
Q: How deep, in feet, is a fathom? A: Six feet
Q: The drug MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamin) is more commonly known by what name? A: Ecstasy
Q: How many Triple Letter squares are on a standard Scrabble board? A: 12
Q: What colour ‘Cadillac’ did Bruce Springsteen sing about in 1984? A: Pink
Q: The ‘Shuttlecock Club’ is an exclusive society for anyone who has crashed and survived on which racing track? A: The Cresta Run
Q: Which city is known as the ‘Pearl of the Adriatic’? A: Dubrovnik
Q: The LED (light-emitting diode) started life in 1962 as a single illumination in which colour? A: Red
Q: Which lake has the largest surface area of any freshwater lake in the world? A: Lake Superior
Q: How many rows of whiskers, on each side, does a cat usually have? A: Four
Q: What was the name of the infamous English art forger, born in 1917, who claimed to have faked more than 2,000 paintings by over 100 artists? A: Tom Keating
Q: Who played Bill Sykes in the 1968 film ‘Oliver’? A: Oliver Reed
Q: What does the statue of Eros, in Piccadilly Circus in London, hold in his left hand? A: A bow
Q: Myology is the scientific study of which part of the human body? A: Muscles
Q: Who starred as Jim Bowie in the 1960 film ‘The Alamo’? A: Richard Widmark
Q: Which British place of learning is referred to as the ‘OU’? A: Open University
Q: In the Bible, who is the father of Shem, Ham and Japheth? A: Noah
Q: Fictional character Sir Percy Blakeney is better known by what name? A: The Scarlet Pimpernel
Q: In the children’s television series ‘The Magic Roundabout’, who is the operator of the roundabout? A: Mr Rusty
Q: A bronze statue of Paddington bear is situated in which London station? A: Paddington Station
Q: Mount of Venus, Plain of Mars and Mount of Jupiter are all found on which part of the body? A: Hand
Q: How many metres is one lap of a standard Olympic running track? A: 400
Q: What type of jump is made by jumping from a tall structure wearing a strong rubber cable, usually fastened around the ankles? A: Bungee Jump
Q: The Interlagos Formula One racing circuit is in which country? A: Brazil
Q: How many sheets of paper, of the same size and quality, is in a metric quire? A: 25
Q: In which mountain range did fictional character Rip Van Winkle sleep for twenty years? A: Catskill Mountains
Q: How many rings are on the Audi car logo? A: Four
Q: Who plays Isobel Crawley in the UK television series ‘Downton Abbey’? A: Penelope Wilton
Q: The Jigsaw Serial Killer is a fictional character in which series of horror films? A: Saw
Q: Rubber, Boxing and Gardening are all types of what? A: Glove
Q: A ‘Cabriole’ is a movement in what type of dance? A: Ballet
Q: Serac is what type of foodstuff? A: Cheese
Q: In which year was cigarette advertising banned on British television? A: 1965
Q: How many coins in one ‘turn’ does each player use in a game of Shove Ha’penny? A: Five
Q: Captain Blade is the mascot of which English football club? A: Sheffield United FC
Q: ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free’ is from which sonnet by Emma Lazarus? A: The New Colossus
Q: Which martial art means ‘The gentle way’? A: Judo
Q: What was the first name of late US actor Steve McQueen? A: Terence
Q: Which fictional doctor is the central character in a series of books by Hugh Lofting? A: Doctor Dolittle
Q: In 1969, who became the youngest woman ever to be elected to British Parliament? A: Bernadette Devlin
Q: What is the name of the drink consisting of Cider and lager in equal proportions? A: Snakebite
Q: A sou was a coin of low value in which European country? A: France
Q: Who was the first non-human to win an Oscar? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: The Magic Fountain of Montjuic is in which European city? A: Barcelona
Q: All the proceeds from J M Barrie’s novel ‘Peter Pan’ are bequeathed to which London hospital? A: Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick Children
Q: Which type of cheese is traditionally used in a Cobb Salad? A: Roquefort
Q: ‘Whispering’ Ted Lowe was a commentator for which sport? A: Snooker
Q: What does an arctophile collect? A: Teddy bears
Q: What are baby beavers called? A: Kits
Q: Which US President had a new one-lane bowling alley installed at The Whitehouse in the 1960’s? A: Richard Nixon
Q: US singer and musician William James Adams is better known by what name? A: will.i.am
Q: What value, in points, is the purple ball in a game of ‘Snooker Plus’? A: Ten
Q: What type of creature is a malimbe? A: Bird
Q: Which sport is the subject of the 1996 film ‘Happy Gilmour’? A: Golf
Q: What is the official language of The Bahamas? A: English
Q: The Lakeside Shopping Centre is in which English county? A: Essex
Q: Which US actor is the voice of Gru in the 2010 animated film ‘Despicable Me’? A: Steve Carell
Q: Which racing driver won the 1994 Formula One Championship? A: Michael Schumacher
Q: What is the name of the bridge, a world famous tourist site designed by Richard Lee, which connects Niagara Falls, New York and Niagara Falls, Ontario? A: Rainbow Bridge
Q: Butler’s, London, Farmer’s and Belfast are all types of what found in the home? A: Sink
Q: Edward Woodstock, 14th Century Prince of Wales, is popularly known by what name? A: The Black Prince
Q: England rugby player Mike Tindell married which member of the British royal family in 2011? A: Zara Phillips
Q: Which sport is nicknamed ‘Chess on Ice’? A: Curling
Q: In human anatomy, what is the name of the wall that separates the nostrils? A: Septum
Q: The famous Reeperbahn is in which European city? A: Hamburg
Q: A bevameter is a device used in terramechanics to measure the mechanical properties of what? A: Soil
Q: Pica Pica is the Latin name for which bird? A: Magpie
Q: Buzkashi is the national sport of which country? A: Afghanistan
Q: In humans, ‘Traumatic auricular haematoma’ is the medical term for which sporting injuty? A: Cauliflower Ear
Q: Amarillo is Spanish for which colour? A: Yellow
Q: Which monarch won the Battle of the Boyne in 1690? A: William III of Orange
Q: Harold Matson and Elliot Handler founded which toys and games company in 1945? A: Mattel
Q: The AEX is the stock exchange in which European city? A: Amsterdam
Q: Which band released a 2000 album entitled ‘Chocolate Starfish and the Hot Dog Flavored Water’? A: Limp Bizkit
Q: What colour is the bird on the Twitter website logo? A: Blue
Q: What type of fashion items are ‘Mary Janes’? A: Shoes
Q: Which word comes after Swindon, Ipswich and Huddersfield in the names of three English football clubs? A: Town
Q: Which is the only county in Britain to have two separate coastlines? A: Devon
Q: In humans, what is the medical term for night blindness, the inability to see in dim light or at night? A: Nyctalopia
Q: Rosaria, Mendoza and Salta are all cities in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: Who became US President in March 1801? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: In humans, Vrolik disease affects which part of the body? A: Bones
Q: The ‘Fashoda Incident’ of 1898 was the climax of imperial territorial disputes between the Britain and France in which country? A: Africa (Eastern)
Q: Which American author’s last two words on his deathbed were ‘Moose’ and ‘Indian’? A: Henry David Thoreau
Q: In which year did Barbados join The Commonwealth? A: 1966
Q: The Pasig and Marikina Rivers are in which Asian country? A: The Philippines
Q: In religion, what are the Zoroastrian books of Sacred Texts called? A: The Avesta
Q: The Duke of Monmouth, who was executed in 1685 after leading a rebellion against King James II, was the illegitimate son of which monarch? A: King Charles II
Q: Who was the host of the first two series of the UK television panel game show ‘Odd One In’? A: Bradley Walsh
Q: ‘Ocimum citriodorum’ is the Latin name for which herb? A: Lemon Basil
Q: Slivovitz is a type of brandy made from which fruit? A: Plums
Q: How many countries border Turkey? A: Eight
Q: Amychophobia is the abnormal fear of being what? A: Scratched or clawed
Q: A sophomore is a student in which year of university? A: Second year
Q: How many stars are on the logo of car manufacturer Subaru? A: Six
Q: In cooking, 160 degrees Celsius is equivalent to which gas mark? A: 3
Q: Canis Lupus Familiaris is the scientific name for which animal? A: Dog
Q: In the US, how many Ivy League universities are there? A: Eight
Q: How much money, in pounds sterling and US dollars, does each player receive from the bank at the beginning of a game of Monopoly? A: 1,500
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Tykes’? A: Barnsley FC
Q: For which 1976 film was actor Peter Finch awarded a posthumous Academy Award for Best Actor in Leading Role? A: Network
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Spadille’? A: Ace of spades
Q: The line ‘It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done’ is from which novel by Charles Dickens? A: A Tale of Two Cities
Q: Mount Sodom lies along which body of water? A: The Dead Sea
Q: Lorenzo, Tubal and Jessica are all characters in which Shakespeare play? A: The Merchant of Venice
Q: Who was the father of King Edward VI of England? A: Henry VIII
Q: What nationality was painter Frida Kahlo? A: Mexican
Q: How many points are scored for a penalty goal in a game of rugby league? A: Two
Q: Salta International Airport is in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: ‘Verdant’ relates to which colour? A: Green
Q: Monte Rosa is the highest mountain in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: On a QWERTY keyboard, which letter lies between X and V? A: C
Q: How many Concorde planes were built? A: 20
Q: Who played the title role in the 1968 film ‘Witchfinder General’? A: Vincent Price
Q: In which UK town is Priory Railway Station? A: Dover
Q: The sartorius muscle is found in which part of the human body? A: Thigh
Q: During which month of the year is the British Open Golf Championship held? A: July
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in June 1970? A: Edward Heath
Q: What colour ‘Onions’ is the title of a 1962 hit for Booker T and the MG’s? A: Green
Q: How many teeth does an adult cat normally have? A: 30
Q: What is the first name of fictional character ‘Jones the Steam’, the driver of Ivor the Engine? A: Edwin
Q: Who is the lead singer of British band The Cure? A: Robert Smith
Q: Which type of racing is held at the Belle Vue Stadium in Manchester? A: Greyhound racing
Q: A sevruga is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: In which year did English monarch Elizabeth I die? A: 1603
Q: Glienicke, Oberbaum and Moltke are all bridges in which European city? A: Berlin
Q: Which bird is the unofficial national symbol of France? A: (Gallic) Rooster
Q: In Greek mythology, who slayed the half-man, half beast Minotaur, which was kept in a labyrinth on the island of Crete? A: Theseus
Q: Who played the title role in the 1998 film ‘Stepmom’? A: Julia Roberts
Q: In March 1967, which English football team became the first 3rd Division club to win the League Cup? A: Queens Park Rangers
Q: The tune to the hymn ‘I Vow To Thee My Country’ was taken from which ‘Planet’ by Gustav Holst? A: Jupiter
Q: In which Irish county is the resort of Bray? A: County Wicklow
Q: The Lev is the currency of which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: British television chef Phil Vickery married which television presenter in 2000? A: Fern Britton
Q: The eagle on the Great Seal of the US has how many arrows in its left talon? A: 13
Q: What is the name of the dog in the television series ‘The Magic Roundabout’? A: Dougal
Q: What colour, traditionally, are cabs in New York? A: Yellow
Q: What is the square root of 81? A: 9
Q: In which war did Florence Nightingale nurse wounded soldiers? A: Crimean War
Q: If something is ‘Biennial’, how often does it occur? A: Every two years
Q: Zucchini is another name for which vegetable? A: Courgette
Q: What is a group of lions called? A: A pride
Q: Which footballer was best man at David and Victoria Beckham’s wedding? A: Gary Neville
Q: Who was the first female Prime Minister of the UK? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Isabella ‘Bella’ Swan is the lead character in which series of vampire books? A: Twilight
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the ruler of the Olympian gods? A: Zeus
Q: How many US Presidents faces are carved into Mount Rushmore? A: Four
Q: Foinaven, Valentines and the Canal Turn are all features of which British racecourse? A: Aintree
Q: Which British band released a 2006 album entitled ‘Beautiful World’? A: Take That
Q: In which 1969 film were Peter Fonda and Dennis Hopper heading for New Orleans? A: Easy Rider
Q: In architecture, where in a house would you find a purlin? A: The roof
Q: ‘Cheval’ is French for which animal? A: Horse
Q: What is a female Red Deer called? A: A hind
Q: Women competed in the 3,000 metre steeplechase for the first time in the Summer Olympics in which year? A: 2008
Q: Denzil Washington played which black militant leader in the 1992 film of the same name? A: Malcolm X
Q: In the ‘Tom & Jerry’ cartoons, what is the name of Spike’s son? A: Tyke
Q: What does each angle of a regular pentagon measure in degrees? A: 108
Q: The island of Lanzarote lies in which body of water? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: Zugzwang, Skewer, Royal Fork and Indian Defence are all terms associated with which board game? A: Chess
Q: What is the name of the mythical, multi-headed dog that guards the gates of the Underworld? A: Cerberus
Q: ‘O, say can you see by the dawn’s early light…’ is the opening line to which national anthem? A: The Star-Spangled Banner
Q: Who resigned as Prime Minister of France in August 1976? A: Jacques Chirac
Q: Who played Rosemary Shanahan in the 2001 film ‘Shallow Hal’? A: Gwyneth Paltrow
Q: In the human body, what is the name of the large muscle which covers the shoulder? A: Deltoid
Q: Which monarch united the Scottish and English thrones? A: James
Q: Which US President said ‘The best way to destroy an enemy is to make him a friend’? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: How many lines make up the London Underground Railway system? A: 11
Q: In the James Bond film ‘Goldfinger’, who is Goldfinger’s bodyguard? A: Oddjob
Q: Who played the role of Becky Sharp in the 2004 film ‘Vanity Fair’? A: Reese Witherspoon
Q: Quomotion is a tribute band to which British band? A: Status Quo
Q: What is the boiling point of water on the Farenheit scale? A: 212 degrees
Q: In 1970, Russia’s (USSR) Venera 7 became the first manmade spacecraft to land successfully on which planet, and transmit data back to Earth? A: Venus
Q: Who scored the first televised maximum snooker break, in 1982? A: Steve Davis
Q: ‘Puff’ is the German name for which board game? A: Backgammon
Q: American Don King is well-known as a promoter of which sport? A: Boxing
Q: The 1937 novel ‘The Road to Wigan Pier’ was written by which British author? A: George Orwell
Q: Which Californian computer software company was founded in 1995 by Bill Coleman, Ed Scott and Alfred Chuang? A: BEA Systems Inc.
Q: Lake Chrissie is in which African country? A: South Africa
Q: Which Austrian Formula One racing driver was killed while qualifying for the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix? A: Roland Ratzenberger
Q: In humans, Polydactyl is the condition of having more than the normal number of what? A: Digits
Q: Which actors play the blind man and the deaf man in the 1989 film ‘See No Evil, Hear No Evil’? A: Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder
Q: ‘The Picture of….’who’? Is a novel by Oscar Wilde? A: Dorian Grey
Q: What is the name of Mildred’s brother-in-law in the UK television series ‘George and Mildred’? A: Humphrey Pumphrey
Q: Roman Emperor Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus is better known by what name? A: Caligula
Q: Which British fashion designer died at his London home in February 2010, aged 40? A: Alexander McQueen
Q: Thathanka Iyotake was the native name for which American tribal chief? A: Sitting Bull
Q: ‘Going Straight’ was the sequel to which British television series? A: Porridge
Q: How many sheets of identical paper are in a ream? A: 500
Q: Which singer/actress attacked Russell Harty on his 1980 British television chat show? A: Grace Jones
Q: How many fluid ounces in half an Imperial pint? A: 10
Q: Aggie, China, Onionskin and Cats Eyes are all types of which toy? A: Marbles
Q: Milos Forman directed which 1975 film starring Jack Nicholson? A: One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest
Q: A rollmop is what type of uncooked pickled fish? A: Herring
Q: What is the medical name for the shin bone? A: Tibia
Q: According to the Bible, what was the name of Jesus maternal grandfather? A: Heli
Q: Which country won the 1978 FIFA World Cup? A: Argentina
Q: From which country did Russia finally withdraw its troops in 1989, after an unsuccessful campaign that lasted nearly ten years? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which author uses the pen name Barbara Vine? A: Ruth Rendell
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Tickle Me’ represents which number? A: 63
Q: The song ‘Lambeth Walk’ is from which musical? A: Me and My Girl
Q: Lopburi, Phichit and Ang Thong are provinces in which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: The unification of the crowns of Aragon and Castile laid the basis of which modern-day European country? A: Spain
Q: Prathiba Patil was the first woman President of which country? A: Republic of India
Q: Rarotonga is the most populous island of which group of islands? A: Cook Islands
Q: British author Vyvyan Holland was the son of which writer and poet? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: The 2005 film ‘Wolf Creek’ is set in which country? A: Australia
Q: Neville Chamberlain was British Prime Minister during the reign of which monarch? A: King George VI
Q: Acorthosis is a medical condition where a person has too many what? A: Erections
Q: Lightning McQueen, Doc Hudson and Fillmore are all characters in which 2006 animated Disney film? A: Cars
Q: The volcano Irazu is in which Central American country? A: Costa Rica
Q: Which actress played Bathsheba Everdene in the 1967 film ‘Far From the Madding Crowd’? A: Julie Christie
Q: What is the name of the three-eyed fish in the US animated television series ‘The Simpsons’? A: Blinky
Q: A ‘Yarborough’ is a hand in which card game? A: Bridge
Q: What kind of performer is an ecdysiast? A: Striptease artist
Q: Who wrote the music for the American musical ‘West Side Story’? A: Leonard Bernstein
Q: The Hajj is a pilgrimage to which city? A: Mecca
Q: RSM is the international vehicle regristration for which republic? A: San Marino
Q: Shaun the Sheep first appeared in which 1995 UK animated television film? A: A Close Shave
Q: Which infamous monk was murdered in Petrograd (St Petersburg) in 1916? A: Grigori Yefimovich Rasputin
Q: Which poet and garden designer was dubbed ‘The Bard of Twickenham’? A: Alexander Pope
Q: Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman play husband and wife in which 1979 film? A: Kramer vs Kramer
Q: Roman Numerals CD represent which number? A: 400
Q: During which month of the year does the Summer Solstice occur in the Northern Hemisphere? A: June
Q: In which US state did singer Elvis Presley perform his last concert? A: Indiana
Q: An abecedarian is a person who is learning what? A: The alphabet
Q: Nanophilia is a strong attraction to which type of people? A: Short or small people
Q: Entertainer Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou is better known by what name? A: George Michael
Q: In Greek mythology, who was condemned to hold the ‘world’ on his shoulders for all eternity as punishment for warring against Zeus? A: Atlas
Q: Which future British monarch ‘married’ Maria Fitzherbert in 1785? A: King George IV
Q: Which birds traditionally inhabit the Tower of London? A: Ravens
Q: ‘Where Everybody Knows Your Name’ is the theme tune to which US television series? A: Cheers
Q: Who is the megalomaniac leader of the Urbankans in the British television series Doctor Who? A: Monarch
Q: Who invented smokeless powder Ballistite in 1887? A: Alfred Nobel
Q: ‘The Jerilderie Letter’ was dictated by which notorious Australian to Joe Byrne in 1879? A: Ned Kelly
Q: In Indian cookery, what is gingili otherwise called? A: Sesame
Q: ‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever’ is the first line of which poem by John Keats? A: Endymion
Q: In 1973, Patrick White became the first Australian to win a Nobel Prize in what? A: Literature
Q: The seaside resort of New Brighton is on the North eastern tip of which English peninsula? A: Wirral Peninsula
Q: Which British singer released a 2009 album entitled ‘Echo’? A: Leona Lewis
Q: Cynomania is the intense enthusiasm or obsession for which type of animal? A: Dog
Q: ‘Acer’ is the Latin name for which tree? A: Maple
Q: Which English world championship darts player walks onto the stage to the tune of ‘Rock and Roll’ by Led Zeppelin? A: John Lowe
Q: What was the first novel by Scottish author Irvin Welsh, published in 1993? A: Trainspotting
Q: A savarin is what type of foodstuff? A: Cake
Q: ‘A Study In Scarlet’ by Arthur Conan Doyle, featuring Sherlock Holmes, was the first work of fiction to incorporate which item as an investigative tool? A: Magnifying glass
Q: Mapo doufu, Goutie, Shahe fen and You tiao are dishes originating in which country? A: China
Q: In which US state the the first Walmart store open, in July 1962? A: Arkansas
Q: ‘Tages-Anzeiger’ is a daily newspaper published in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: In Greek mythology, who is the muse of history? A: Clio
Q: In which Oscar-winning 1964 film did actress Julie Andrews make her feature film debut? A: Mary Poppins
Q: In January 1994, which member of the British royal family was the first senior royal to publicly convert to Catholicism, the first for more than 300 years? A: Katharine, Duchess of Kent
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who ‘called for his fiddlers three’? A: Old King Cole
Q: Which former actor was elected Governor of California in 1966? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What is the official language of Tunisia? A: Arabic
Q: In which English city is Meadowhall Railway Station? A: Sheffield
Q: Which team did Tottenham Hotspur beat to win the 1973 League Cup? A: Norwich City
Q: How many US Presidents have been assassinated in office? A: Four
Q: What was the name of the boutique opened by fashion designer Jeff banks in London in 1964? A: Clobber
Q: Which Prime Minister first introduced Income Tax in Britain? A: William Pitt the Younger
Q: Used by Eskimos, what is a Komatik? A: Dog sled
Q: The Resende Nuclear Fuel Factory is in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: If a person is Esotropic, they are what? A: Cross-eyed
Q: How many players are on the field in a fielding rounders team? A: Nine
Q: Who plays President Coriolanus Snow in the 2012 film ‘The Hunger Games’? A: Donald Sutherland
Q: During which year was the inaugural tournament of the FIFA World Cup? A: 1930
Q: Aldo Moro was Prime Minister of which European country? A: Italy
Q: What is the point at the base of a horse’s neck to which the horse’s height is measured? A: Withers
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies opposite 20? A: 3
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Black Cats’? A: Sunderland AFC
Q: Rhinology is the study of which part of the human body? A: Nose
Q: What was Ronald Reagan’s last film, released in 1964? A: The Killers
Q: In which year did British author Charles Dickens die? A: 1870
Q: What is a female chimpanzee called? A: Empress
Q: ‘Fraxinus excelsior’ is the Latin name for which tree? A: Ash
Q: Which English cricket broadcaster is known by the nickname ‘Aggers’? A: Jonathan Agnew
Q: Who wrote the song ‘Mr Tambourine Man’, which was a hit for The Byrds in 1965? A: Bob Dylan
Q: Which former US chat show host starred in the 1998 film ‘Beloved’? A: Oprah Winfrey
Q: Selma and Patty are characters in which US television cartoon series? A: The Simpsons
Q: The painting ‘The Anatomy Lesson of Dr Nicolaes Tulp’ is the work of which Dutch artist? A: Rembrandt
Q: In the International Morse Code, which number is represented by two dashes and three dots? A: 7
Q: Who played Giacinta ‘Jinx’ Johnson in the 2002 James Bond film ‘Die Another Day’? A: Halle Berry
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is described as ‘An energy field created by all living things that surrounds us, penetrates us, and binds the galaxy together’? A: The ‘Force’
Q: Which Star Wars film was released in May 1980? A: The Empire Strikes Back
Q: In the Star Wars series of films Princess Leia is whose twin sister? A: Luke Skywalker
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is the name of the capital of the planet Naboo? A: Theed
Q: Which was the last ‘Star Wars’ film, released in 2008? A: The Clone Wars
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is the name of the short, stocky, friendly hunter-gatherers that inhabit the forest moon of Endor? A: Ewoks
Q: In the Star Wars series of films who played Sabe, one of Padme Amidala’s handmaidens, in ‘The Phantom Menace’? A: Keira Knightly
Q: In the Star Wars series of films which character, designed to serve humans, boasts that he is ‘Fluent in over six million forms of communication’? A: C_3PO
Q: In the Star Wars series of films who is revealed to be the father of Luke Skywalker? A: Darth Vader
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is the name of the fictional moon-sized spacestation and superweapon, which is capable of destroying a planet with a single destructive energy beam? A: Death Star
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is the name of Han Solo’s Wookie co-pilot? A: Chewbacca
Q: In the Star Wars series of films what is the name of the fictional weapon, consisting of a polished hilt which projects a  blade of plasma, used by the Jedi and the Sith? A: Lightsaber
Q: What is the modern-day name of the Kingdom of Mauretania? A: Morocco
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Primus inter pares’ translate to in English? A: First among equals
Q: What is the name of the 1780 London riots which were an anti-Catholic protest against the 1778 Papists Act? A: Gordon Riots
Q: In 1960, Makarios III became the first President of which Mediterranean island? A: Cyprus
Q: William of Orange was the husband of which English sovereign? A: Mary II
Q: Which US state is known as the ‘Beaver State? A: Oregon
Q: What is the final event of a men’s decathlon? A: 1500 metres
Q: In Greek mythology, whose face was said to have launched a thousand ships? A: Helen of Troy
Q: Who played painter Paul Gaugin in the 1956 film ‘Lust for Life’? A: Anthony Quinn
Q: In humans, esotropia affects which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: In the 1940 Disney film ‘Pinocchio’, what is the name of Geppetto’s cat? A: Figaro
Q: A barista makes and serves what? A: Coffee
Q: What is the national flower of Pakistan? A: Jasmine (or Chambeli)
Q: In 2006, who did Kirsty Young replace as the host of BBC’s Desert Island Discs? A: Sue Lawley
Q: What is the everyday name for ethylene glycol? A: Antifreeze
Q: Used in gaming, what are ‘Devil’s bones’? A: Dice
Q: Plateado is Spanish for which colour? A: Silver
Q: In which year was England footballer David Beckham awarded an OBE? A: 2003
Q: Actress Brooke Shields modelled jeans for which designer in the 1980’s? A: Calvin Klein
Q: Which mountain range is known as ‘The Backbone of England’? A: The Pennines
Q: In which year was former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher born? A: 1925
Q: Which US city was previously called New Amsterdam? A: New York
Q: In 1972, who became the first American to win the World Chess Championship? A: Bobby Fischer
Q: Canada has how many territories? A: Three
Q: Professional surfer Jordy Smith was born in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which body of water is known in the Bible as The Great Sea? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Who is the voice of the bride in Tim Burton’s 2005 film ‘Corpse bride’? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: Which novel by Margaret Mitchell was first published in 1936? A: Gone With the Wind
Q: Which actor made his screen debut as Boo Radley in the 1962 film ‘To Kill a Mockingbird’? A: Robert Duvall
Q: Laguna de Bay is the largest lake in which Asian country? A: Philippines
Q: Which French novelist’s first names were Sidonie Gabrielle? A: Colette
Q: In which US state is Edwards Air Force Base? A: California
Q: Which British snooker player was known by the nickname ‘Hurricane’? A: Alex Higgins
Q: Where, in the human body, is the humerus bone? A: Upper arm
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Fourth Protocol’? A: Frederick Forsyth
Q: What type of creature was a quagga? A: Zebra
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the mortal woman who challenged the goddess Athena to a weaving contest and was turned into a spider by Athena? A: Arachne
Q: Aladar, Yar, Zini and Baylene are all characters in which 2000 Disney film? A: Dinosaur
Q: The children’s toy Silly Putty was taken on board by the crew of which Apollo mission? A: Apollo 8
Q: Which British title did Frederick and William Temple hold on separate occasions? A: Archbishop of Canterbury
Q: In the US ‘The Great Fire of ….’where’ occured 8th to 10th October 1871? A: Chicago
Q: Felidae is the scientific name for which animals? A: Cats
Q: What is the most common boy’s name in children’s nursery rhymes? A: Jack
Q: How many times can an A4 piece of paper be folded in half? A: Seven
Q: Which facial features remain the same size from birth to adulthood? A: Eyes
Q: Which is the largest continent on Earth? A: Asia
Q: Who was the first American President? A: George Washington
Q: Which planet is nearest to the Sun? A: Mercury
Q: Author Frances Hodgson Burnett wrote the children’s novel ‘The Secret….’what’? A: Garden
Q: What is the square root of 36? A: 6
Q: Which reptiles camouflage themselves by changing colour? A: Chameleons
Q: What type of angle is less than 90 degrees? A: Acute angle
Q: In the human body, the patella is commonly known as what? A: Knee cap
Q: What is the capital of Norway? A: Oslo
Q: How many reeds does an oboe have? A: Two
Q: Which author wrote the 1991 book ‘The story of Tracy Beaker’? A: Jacqueline Wilson
Q: Singer Justin Bieber was born in which country? A: Canada
Q: The Eiffel Tower is in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Welsh rarebit is another name for ‘what’ on toast? A: Cheese
Q: ‘The Abduction from the Seraglio’ (Il Seraglio) is an opera by which composer? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: The former African nation of Nyasaland is now known by what name? A: Malawi
Q: Albert Finney played ‘Sir’ in which 1983 film? A: The Dresser
Q: Vache is French for which animal? A: Cow
Q: Edward Seymour, Ist Duke of Somerset, was executed for treason during the reign of which English monarch? A: King Edward VI
Q: Bibliophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Books
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Addicks’? A: Charlton Athletic FC
Q: What is lowered through a hawse hole on a ship? A: Anchor
Q: In archery, what is a person who makes bows called? A: A bowyer
Q: Which is the longest line on the London Underground Railway system? A: Central Line
Q: Who was the second husband of actress Angelina Jolie? A: Billy Bob Thornton
Q: English statesman John of Gaunt was regent to which future king of England while he was too young to take the throne? A: Richard II
Q: In medicine, Hansen disease is better  known by what name? A: Leprosy
Q: Which late singer/musician was shot in an assassination attempt in Jamaica in December 1976? A: Bob Marley
Q: Terra is the Latin name for which planet in our solar system? A: Earth
Q: Which singer released a 2007 album entitled ‘Good Girl Gone Bad’? A: Rihanna
Q: In the Bible, Conquest, War, Famine and Death symbolise the Four ‘what’? A: Horsemen of the Apocalypse
Q: Which novel by Robert Louis Stevenson was originally published under the title ‘The Sea Cook’? A: Treasure island
Q: According to the Bible, how many children did Adam and Eve have together? A: Three
Q: Southdown is a breed of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Transylvania is in which European country? A: Romania
Q: Soave wine is produced in which country? A: Italy
Q: Michael Gordon Peterson, often referred to by the British press as ‘The most violent prisoner in Britain’, changed his name to that of which US actor in 1987? A: Charles Bronson
Q: How many ‘beds’ are there usually on a Shove Ha’penny board? A: Nine
Q: ‘Hen Wlad FY Nhadau’ is the national anthem of which European country? A: Wales
Q: Actor Jay Silverheels is famous for playing which fictional television American Indian? A: Tonto
Q: Which English composer conducted the London Symphony Orchestra at the 1931 opening of the Abbey Road Studios in London? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Who became US President Barack Obama’s Vice President in 2008? A: Joe Biden
Q: The song ‘Send in the Clowns’ is from which musical? A: A Little Night Music
Q: Lake Havasu City is in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: Which British television chef created snail porridge? A: Heston Blumenthal
Q: What is the title of the work by artist Damien Hirst in which a sheep is suspended in a tank of formaldahyde? A: Away From the Flock
Q: Who played Bodie and Doyle’s boss, George Cowley, in the UK television series ‘The Professionals’? A: Gordon Jackson
Q: The Olmec and Mayan are two of the earliest recorded civilisations of which modern-day country? A: Mexico
Q: Who wrote the 1973 novel ‘The Dressmaker’? A: Beryl Bainbridge
Q: Who plays Debbie Aldridge in the BBC 4 radio series ‘The Archers’? A: Tamsin Greig
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol ‘As’? A: Arsenic
Q: What was the first name of English singer/musician Elton John’s wife? A: Renate
Q: The French resort of Biarritz lies on which body of water? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: Mid-off, Cover Point and Square Leg are all terms used in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Which horse won the 2001 English Grand National? A: Red Marauder
Q: Who was the last Kaiser of Germany? A: Wilhelm II
Q: Drax Power Station is in which English county? A: Yorkshire
Q: What is the name of the gallery from which members of the public can watch proceedings in the British House of Commons? A: Strangers Gallery
Q: Which British football manager was known as ‘El Tel’? A: Terry Venables
Q: US President Ronald Reagan belonged to which political party from 1962? A: Republican Party
Q: Brothers Leon and Michael Spinks are associated with which sport? A: Boxing
Q: On the human body, exungulation is the trimming of what? A: Nails
Q: Lenny Small and George Milton are the main characters in which novel by John Steinbeck? A: Of Mice and Men
Q: How many zeros are in a US quadrillion? A: 15
Q: ‘The Girl With a….’what’? Is a 17th Century painting by Johannes Vermeer? A: Pearl Earring
Q: In human behaviour, rhinotillexomania is compulsive, obsessive what? A: Nose picking
Q: The 2000 Guineas Horse Race is run at which British race course? A: Newmarket
Q: How many avenues start from the circle of the Arc de Triomphe in Paris? A: 12
Q: In the British television series ‘Callan’ played by Edward Woodward, what is Callan’s first name? A: David
Q: What type of fish is a Sockeye? A: Salmon
Q: How many pips sound in the BBC radio time-signal? A: Six
Q: Which board game includes a swinging boot, a bucket, a bath tub and a seesaw? A: Mouse Trap
Q: What is the eagle on the Great Seal of the US holding in its right talon? A: Olive branch
Q: Who wrote the 2004 play ‘The History Boys’? A: Alan Bennett
Q: What was the name of the last concert by the Canadian-American rock group The Band in November 1976? A: The Last Waltz
Q: Who was the longest, continuously-serving British prime Minister of the 20th Century? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Who was the second husband of singer Madonna? A: Guy Ritchie
Q: The Reverend Flasher is a fictional character in which 1974 ‘Carry On’ film? A: Carry On Dick
Q: What is the name of the densely forested moon inhabited by the Na’vi in the 2009 film ‘Avatar’? A: Pandora
Q: The ruins of Troy are in which modern-day country? A: Turkey
Q: What is the title of the 1956 film, starring Kirk Douglas, which is a biography about the life of painter Vincent van Gogh? A: Lust For Life
Q: Which English author said ‘Serious sport has nothing to do with fair play……..it is war minus the shooting’? A: George Orwell
Q: Historical figure Robin Hood is associated with which shade of green? A: Lincoln Green
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the US Democratic Political Party? A: Donkey
Q: What is the real name of fictional character Shaggy from the animated television series ‘Scooby Doo’? A: Norville Rogers
Q: Maria Bicknell married which English artist in 1816? A: John Constable
Q: Venta Belgarum was the Roman name for which Hampshire town in England? A: Winchester
Q: Which is the only one of Disney’s Seven Dwarfs who does not have a beard? A: Dopey
Q: The Internet company Google is based in which US state? A: California
Q: In the television series ‘The Simpsons’, what is the name of the ‘evil genius’ who has sworn to take revenge on Bart? A: Sideshow Bob
Q: A natatorium is an indoor ‘what’? A: Swimming pool
Q: Who wrote the 1964 book ‘The Corridors of Power’? A: C P Snow
Q: What is the currency of Argentina? A: Peso
Q: Smeaton’s Tower lighthouse is in which English city? A: Plymouth
Q: Ingvar Kamprad founded which international home products company in 1943? A: IKEA
Q: In humans, ‘medial tibial stress syndrome’ is the medical term for which sporting injury? A: Shin splints
Q: The ‘Ring of Fire’ is in which ocean? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: In Greek mythology, Artemis is the twin sister of which god? A: Apollo
Q: Nepotal pertains to which family member? A: Nephew
Q: What is the name of the hunter and arch enemy of cartoon character Bugs Bunny? A: Elmer Fudd
Q: Used during World War I, what is a Sopwith Camel? A: A plane
Q: Drizella Tremaine, Gus, Bruno and Lucifer are all characters in which Disney film? A: Cinderella
Q: Delphinus delphis is the scientific name for which creature? A: Dolphin
Q: What is the second largest emirate of the Unites Arab Emirates? A: Dubai
Q: The Liberty Bell (March) by John Philip Sousa is the theme tune to which UK television comedy series starring John Cleese? A: Monty Python’s Flying Circus
Q: The Mariana Trench is the deepest point in which ocean? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: In humans, the medical condition kyphosis affects which part of the body? A: Spine
Q: Schwarz is German for which colour? A: Black
Q: What colour triangle is on the logo of the Bass brewery? A: Red
Q: Which British comedian plays Brian Potter in the UK television series ‘Phoenix Nights’? A: Peter Kaye
Q: Earth, Ceramic, Gas and Masonry are all types of what? A: Oven
Q: The period in British history from 1795 to 1837 is often referred to as the ‘What…..era’? A: Regency era
Q: In medicine, glossitis is an inflammation of which part of the body? A: Tongue
Q: Batrachophobia is an irrational fear of which type of creatures? A: Amphibians
Q: A souslik is what type of creature? A: Squirrel
Q: Who was the presenter of the UK television series ‘The Old Grey Whistle Test’ from 1972 to 1978? A: Bob Harris
Q: Astronomer Tycho Brahe was born in which European country in 1546? A: Denmark
Q: Which nation won the 2002 FIFA World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: The city of Cologne is in which European country? A: Germany
Q: Which singer wrote the 2003 children’s book ‘The English Roses’? A: Madonna
Q: How many rounds are there in an Olympic men’s boxing match? A: Three
Q: What is a female adult squirrel called? A: Doe
Q: Which comedy duo starred in the 1991 British television series ‘Plaza Patrol’? A: Cannon and Ball
Q: Ananas is French for which fruit? A: Pineapple
Q: The World Snooker Championship is held at which Sheffield theatre? A: The Crucible
Q: In the Royal Air Force, which rank is between Squadron Leader and Group Captain? A: Wing Commander
Q: Romeo, Brooklyn, Cruz and Harper are children of which former England football player? A: David Beckham
Q: What is the lowest denomination Euro banknote? A: Five Euros
Q: How many players are on the ice in an ice hockey team? A: Six
Q: What is the capital of Iran? A: Tehran
Q: Which type of creatures would live in a skep? A: Bees
Q: What is the name of the bear in the television series ‘The Muppets’? A: Fozzie
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who had ‘Silver buckles on his knees’? A: Bobby Shafto
Q: Necromimesis is the feigning of what? A: Death
Q: In which European city is the Brandenburg Gate? A: Berlin
Q: A caduceus, a staff with two serpents twined around it, is often associated with which profession? A: Medical profession
Q: How many tentacles and arms altogether does a squid have? A: Ten
Q: Which mythical bird  is cyclically regenerated or reborn from its own ashes? A: Phoenix
Q: Which number is represented by five dots in Morse Code? A: Five
Q: Who plays Dominick Cobb in the 2010 film ‘Inception’? A: Leonardo DiCaprio
Q: Johnny Depp plays policeman Ichabod Crane in which 1999 film? A: Sleepy Hollow
Q: Avenue Foch is the widest avenue in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Fashion retailer H&M was founded in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: What is the name of the mill in the novel ‘The Mill on the Floss’ by George Eliot? A: Dorlcote Mill
Q: The ‘Duckworth-Lewis method’ is used in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: In a painting, the point on the horizon, where parallel lines appear to converge, is called the ‘what’ point? A: Vanishing point
Q: Meissen porcelain comes from which European country? A: Germany
Q: The girl’s name Vanessa was said to have been invented by which author? A: Jonathan Swift
Q: The pasta Capelli d’angelo is also known as ‘what’ hair? A: Angel hair
Q: During which month does the Summer Solstice occur in the Southern Hemisphere? A: December
Q: What is the main metal in pewter? A: Tin
Q: Which is the oldest British royal residence still in regular use? A: Windsor Castle
Q: Which 2002 animated film is set during the ‘Pleistocene Era’? A: Ice Age
Q: Who is the only driver to have completed and won the Triple Crown in motor racing? A: Graham Hill
Q: In the Disney film ‘The Lion King’, what is the name of Simba’s wicked uncle? A: Scar
Q: In September 1937, the first edition of which J R R Tolkien novel was published? A: The Hobbit
Q: Alberto Fujimori became the President of which South American country in 1990? A: Peru
Q: Which is said to be the oldest book in the Bible? A: Job
Q: Ichthyophobia is the irrational fear of which creatures? A: Fish
Q: Actress Margerita Carmen Cansino was better known by what name? A: Rita Hayworth
Q: Who played the title role in the UK television series ‘Dr Quinn, Medicine Woman’? A: Jane Seymour
Q: In 1720, the ‘bursting’ of what in England caused widespread financial loss? A: The South Sea Bubble
Q: What is the largest hammered copper statue in the world? A: Statue of Liberty
Q: Relating to the children’s television show, how many colour ‘Blue Peter’ badges are there? A: Six
Q: Mount Jungfrau is in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: Which classic sci-fi thriller was originally made in 1956 and re-made in 1978, with another version made in 1993? A: Invasion of the Body Snatchers
Q: What is the capital of The Ivory Coast? A: Yamoussoukro
Q: What is the oldest independent record label in Britain, founded in 1939? A: Topic Records
Q: In the UK, what is the name of the pedestrian crossing with traffic lights that go green only when no more pedestrians are detected on the crossing by infrared detectors and mats? A: Puffin crossing
Q: The Kruger National Park is located in which country? A: South Africa
Q: In which European city is Richmond Bridge? A: London
Q: In human anatomy, a buccula is a double what? A: Chin
Q: Late actor John Elton Halliley was better known by what name? A: John Le Mesurier
Q: In the children’s story by the Brothers Grimm, the rooster, cat, dog and donkey are known as the Town Musicians of where? A: Bremen
Q: What is the name of Elliott’s dog in the 1982 film ‘ET’? A: Harvey
Q: The town of Nokia is in which European country? A: Finland
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Cup of Tea’ is the nickname of which number? A: Three
Q: What is the name of the fictional planet which is the homeworld of the ‘Transformers’? A: Cybertron
Q: What was the name of Clement Freud’s late artist brother? A: Lucian Freud
Q: Who wrote the 1942 song ‘White Christmas’? A: Irving Berlin
Q: British sportswoman Anita Lonsbrough won a 1960 Olympic Gold medal in which sport? A: Swimming
Q: Svengali is the hypnotic musician in which George du Maurier novel? A: Trilby
Q: Who wrote the 1969 song ‘Je T’aime, Mois Non Plus’? A: Serge Gainsbourg
Q: The Joseon Dynasty built the ‘Five Grand Palaces’ in which capital city? A: Seoul
Q: Tennis player Vijay Amritraj appeared in which James Bond film? A: Octopussy
Q: Musical duo Ron and Russell Mael were better known by what name? A: Sparks
Q: Which UK country did Queen Elizabeth II visit on her first official tour after her coronation? A: Northern Ireland
Q: White and which other colour make up the national flag of Poland? A: Red
Q: Princess Charlene became the wife of which European prince in 2011? A: Prince Albert of Monaco
Q: Who wrote the 1970 novel ‘Love Story? A: Erich Segal
Q: The first ‘Miss World’ winner, in 1951, was from which country? A: Sweden
Q: The French Opera House was opened in 1859 in which US city? A: New Orleans
Q: In medicine, a sialogogue is a drug that promoted the secretion of what? A: Saliva
Q: The British company Winmau is associated with which sport? A: Darts
Q: What is the US state capital of Minnesota? A: Saint Paul
Q: How many red stripes are on the American national flag? A: Seven
Q: In the children’s television show, what is the name of the yellow Teletubby? A: Laa-Laa
Q: What colour rose is the title of a Thin Lizzy song? A: Black
Q: English wrestler Shirley Crabtree Jr was better known by what name? A: Big Daddy
Q: The Trafford Shopping Centre is in which English city? A: Manchester
Q: Actress Gwyneth Paltrow named her first child after which fruit? A: Apple
Q: What is the least number of games that have to be played to win a set in a tennis match? A: Six
Q: Which fictional character went ‘Around the World in 80 Days’? A: Phileas Fogg
Q: What is the name of the blood-sucking worm sometimes used by doctors? A: Leech
Q: The 1980’s UK television series ‘Bergerac’ was set on which island? A: Jersey
Q: Which country has the most time zones? A: Russia
Q: Fictional characters Clark Kent, Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen work for which newspaper? A: The Daily Planet
Q: St Michael is the brand name of which major British high-street chain of retailers? A: Marks and Spencer
Q: ‘Ruby Rose’ is Cockney rhyming slang for which part of the body? A: Nose
Q: Which vitamin is known to prevent night-blindness? A: Vitamin A
Q: Late American actor Bernard Schwarz was better known by what name? A: Tony Curtis
Q: Which laundry product was advertised with the slogan ‘Trust pink, forget stains’? A: Vanish
Q: The peptide hormone renin is secreted by which organ of the body? A: Kidney
Q: How many states make up Germany? A: 16
Q: If someone is born on the 24th May, what is their Zodiac sign? A: Gemini
Q: Seal point is a dark brown marking on the fur of which animal? A: Cat
Q: In which year was the ‘Storming of the Bastille’ in Paris? A: 1789
Q: Simpkin is the name of the cat that appears in which Beatrix Potter book? A: The Tailor Of Gloucester
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in April 1976? A: James Callaghan
Q: Elizabeth Woodville was the wife of which English monarch? A: King Edward IV
Q: Xanthophobia is the irrational fear of which colour? A: Yellow
Q: The Bledisloe Cup is contested in Rugby Union between which two nations? A: Australia and New Zealand
Q: Who played detective Virgil Tibbs in the 1967 film ‘In the Heat of the Night’? A: Sidney Poitier
Q: During which year did the UK television series ‘Emmerdale Farm’ change its title to ‘Emmerdale’? A: 1989
Q: Who wrote the poem ‘ The Ballad of Reading Gaol’? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which British industrialist was the maternal grandfather of naturalist Charles Darwin? A: Josiah Wedgewood
Q: Ancient Greek statesman Demosthenes used to practice his speaking, to cure his speech impediment, by placing what in his mouth? A: Pebbles
Q: Which circle of latitude divides the Earth’s Southern and Northern Hemispheres? A: The Equator
Q: In which European country is Lake Pielinen? A: Finland
Q: ‘Gramen’ is the Latin name for which plant? A: Grass
Q: In Britain, who is traditionally first to make a speech at a wedding? A: Bride’s father
Q: In the British royal family, who did Prince Andrew marry in 1986? A: Sarah Ferguson
Q: The 1972 film ‘The Man of La Mancha’ is based on which fictional character? A: Don Quixote
Q: Goodwood Race Course is in which English county? A: West Sussex
Q: What is the name of the village fishmonger in the ‘Asterix’ series of cartoons? A: Unhygienix
Q: The ‘Senior Service’ is the nickname for which of the British Armed Forces? A: Royal Navy
Q: Who is the lead singer of British rock group The Arctic Monkeys? A: Alex Turner
Q: Which publisher of children’s books is named after an insect? A: Ladybird
Q: The poem ‘Funeral Blues’ by W H Auden is popularly known by what name? A: Stop All the Clocks
Q: In the novel ‘Oliver Twist’ by Charles Dickens, what is The Artful Dodger’s real name? A: Jack Dawkins
Q: Who sang the title song for the 2002 James Bond film ‘Die Another Day’? A: Madonna
Q: The Sejm is the lower house of parliament in which European country? A: Poland
Q: Doge’s Palace is in which European city? A: Venice
Q: Who played the role of Vin in the 1960 film ‘The Magnificent Seven’? A: Steve McQueen
Q: Which British haulage company has a long tradition of naming its trucks after females? A: Eddie Stobart
Q: What is the name of the cat of cartoon character Minnie Mouse? A: Figaro
Q: Bulent Ecevit was Prime Minister of which country from 1999 to 2002? A: Turkey
Q: In which Australian state is the seaport of Bunbury? A: Western Australia
Q: The ‘Upper Pool’, part of the Pool of London, lies between which two bridges? A: London Bridge and Tower bridge
Q: Which drink originated from the Arabic word ‘qahwa’? A: Coffee
Q: What was poet Percy Shelley’s middle name? A: Bysshe
Q: In the fashion industry, what does ‘Pret-a-porter’ mean? A: Ready to wear
Q: Which British comedian had the catchphrase ‘And it’s goodnight from him’? A: Ronnie Barker
Q: The Tatra Mountains is the highest range in which mountain range? A: Carpathian Mountains
Q: Who wrote the 1984 novel ‘The Witches of Eastwick’? A: John Updike
Q: Which celebrity won the first series of the UK television show ‘Strictly Come Dancing’? A: Natasha Kaplinsky
Q: What does ‘He’ represent in the Periodic Table? A: Helium
Q: The Joad family are characters in which 1939 novel by John Steinbeck? A: The Grapes of Wrath
Q: How many months of the year have 31 days? A: Seven
Q: In the cartoon comic strip ‘Peanuts’, what is Snoopy’s sister called? A: Belle
Q: The Ten Commandments appear in which book of the Bible? A: Exodus
Q: The Gorce National park is in which European country? A: Poland
Q: ‘Jueves’ is Spanish for which day of the week? A: Thursday
Q: Fanny Blankers-Koen was the first woman to win how many gold medals in a single Olympic Games in 1948? A: Four
Q: Violinist Yehudi Menuhin was born in which City? A: New York
Q: The islands of Jura, Sanday, Shapinsay and Balta belong to which European country? A: Scotland
Q: Which US President had children named Tricia and Julie? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Which hymn is traditionally played before the start of the FA Cup Final? A: Abide With Me
Q: Stargazy Pie originated in which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: What is the longest side called on a right-angled triangle? A: Hypotenuse
Q: Prosciutto is what type of foodstuff? A: Ham
Q: What was the name of the submarine in which film director James Cameron made a solo descent to the deepest place in the Pacific ocean in March 2012? A: Deepsea Challenger
Q: What type of creature is Snowball in the 1945 novel ‘Animal Farm’? A: Pig
Q: Black Sigatoka is a leaf spot disease of which fruit plant? A: Banana
Q: Which game was nicknamed ‘Wiff Waff’? A: Table tennis
Q: Paul Weller was the lead singer in which 1970’s/1980’s band? A: The Jam
Q: Which Australian cricket ground is known as ‘The Gabba’? A: Brisbane Cricket Ground
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Errare humane est’ translate to in English? A: To err is human
Q: Which US singer married Debbie Reynolds, Elizabeth Taylor and Connie Stevens? A: Eddie Fisher
Q: Which author created James Bond? A: Ian Fleming
Q: Which branch of the British military did fictional character James Bond serve in? A: Royal Navy
Q: In which James Bond film does Felix Leiter lose a leg in a shark attack? A: Licence To Kill
Q: Gobinda is the henchman in which James Bond film? A: Octopussy
Q: Who sang the title songs for the James Bond films ‘Goldfinger’ and ‘Diamonds are Forever’? A: Shirley Bassey
Q: What is the title of Ian Fleming’s first James Bond novel? A: Casino Royale
Q: Agents 002, 003 and 004 appear in which James Bond film? A: Thunderball
Q: James Bond married Teresa de Vincenzo in which Bond film? A: On Her Majesty’s Secret Service
Q: Who directed the 2012 James Bond film ‘Skyfall’? A: Sam Mendes
Q: In the James Bond series of films, what is the name of ‘M’s’ personal secretary? A: Miss Moneypenny
Q: Who is the henchman to villain Karl Stromberg in the 1977 James Bond film ‘The Spy Who Loved Me’? A: Jaws
Q: Who played James Bond in the 1973 film ‘Live and Let Die’? A: Roger Moore
Q: What make and model car did James Bond drive in the 1962 film ‘Dr No’? A: Sunbeam Alpine
Q: In which film does James Bond go to Paris and climb the Eiffel Tower? A: A View to a Kill
Q: Who played ‘M’ , the head of MI6, in the 1995 James Bond film ‘Goldeneye’? A: Judi Dench
Q: English artist Ben Nicholson married which British sculptor in 1938? A: Barbara Hepworth
Q: In 2002, who was the first athlete to win FHM’s ‘Sexiest Woman in the World’ award? A: Anna Kournikova
Q: Halifax is the capital of which Canadian province? A: Nova Scotia
Q: Hamida Djandoubi was the last person in France to be executed by what method, in September 1977? A: Guillotine
Q: The coffee shop ‘Central Perk’ features in which US television series? A: Friends
Q: What were the first names of Scottish author A J Cronin? A: Archibald Joseph
Q: What type of weather condition was known as a ‘London Particular’? A: Fog
Q: Which two words are inscribed on the Victoria Cross? A: For Valour
Q: Which two cities did the Orient Express originally travel between? A: Paris and Istanbul
Q: Delft pottery comes from which European country? A: Netherlands
Q: How many contestants are at the start of the UK television quiz show ‘The Chase’? A: Four
Q: ‘The Singing…’what’ is a famous painting by Scottish artist Jack Vetriano? A: Butler
Q: Which US author won the 1953 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his novel ‘The Old Man and the Sea’? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: Anna Leonowens is a character in which 1956 film? A: The King and I
Q: Who directed the 2009 film ‘Avatar’? A: James Cameron
Q: Roquet, Tice and Pioneer are all terms used in which game? A: Croquet
Q: In the 1940 Disney film ‘Pinocchio’ what is the name of Geppetto’s goldfish? A: Cleo
Q: Austrian monk Gregor Mendel discovered the Laws of ‘what’? A: Heredity
Q: Who is the President of The All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in Wimbledon? A: The Duke of Kent
Q: The leaf of which plant is said to relieve nettle stings? A: Dock
Q: If something is ‘Napiform’, it’s shaped like which vegetable? A: Turnip
Q: What was the first name of Labour politician Keir Hardie Sr? A: James
Q: On which island is Ronaldsway Airport? A: Isle of Man
Q: British comedians Jo, Katy and Russell all share which surname? A: Brand
Q: Who wrote the 1974 novel ‘Carrie’? A: Stephen King
Q: Musician and composer Ravi Shankar was associated with which musical instrument? A: Sitar
Q: Bufonophobia is the fear of which creatures? A: Toads
Q: What was the name of British singer Lulu’s 1960’s backing group? A: The Luvvers
Q: What colour is the ‘Little Corvette’ in the 1983 single by Prince? A: Red
Q: The port of Dover is in which English county? A: Kent
Q: During which month of the year is Hogmanay celebrated? A: December
Q: In which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical does the cast wear roller skates? A: Starlight Express
Q: Which sign of the Zodiac is represented by the fish? A: Pisces
Q: What is 255 divided by 5? A: 51
Q: Which fictional character uses the expression ‘Eat my shorts’? A: Bart Simpson
Q: In Greek mythology who is the messenger god? A: Hermes
Q: How high is the crossbar of a FIFA rules football goal in feet? A: Eight
Q: How many letters are on the bottom letters row of a QWERTY keyboard? A: Seven
Q: Which US city is known as The Windy City? A: Chicago
Q: How many toes does a cat have on each front paw? A: Five
Q: Single-Line, U-Shaped and Island are all designs of which room in the house? A: Kitchen
Q: What is the title of late actor Steve McQueen’s last film? A: The Hunter
Q: The ‘Aurora Australis’ is also known by what name? A: Southern Lights
Q: The disease rickets is caused by the lack of which vitamin? A: Vitamin D
Q: What is the capital of Ecuador? A: Quito
Q: How many players are on the field in a hockey team? A: Eleven
Q: What colour is a five Euro banknote? A: Grey
Q: Which fictional scarecrow has a set of interchangeable turnip, mangel worzel and swede heads? A: Worzel Gummidge
Q: Tennis player Mary Pierce was born in which country in January 1975? A: Canada
Q: An ortolan is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Who created the fictional character Harry Lime? A: Graham Greene
Q: In the 1977 film ‘Smokey and the Bandit’, which brand of beer is to be transported to Georgia? A: Coors
Q: Carl XVI Gustav became king of which European country in September 1973? A: Sweden
Q: How wide is a volleyball court in feet? A: 30 feet
Q: Which novel by A J Cronin is credited with laying down the foundation in Great Britain for the introduction of the National Health Service? A: The Citadel
Q: In which English city is Temple Meads Railway Station? A: Bristol
Q: What is the official language of Liberia? A: English
Q: In 1966, which African-American revolutionary socialist organization was founded in California by Huey P Newton and Bobby Seale? A: Black Panther Party
Q: Jack Nicholson received his second Oscar for which 1983 film? A: Terms of Endearment
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who ‘Went to Gloucester in a shower of rain’? A: Doctor Foster
Q: According to Greek mythology, who opened a jar out of curiosity and let out all the evils of humanity? A: Pandora
Q: How many houses are there in a game of Monopoly? A: 32
Q: In the UK, who was hanged in April 1962 for the A6 murder of scientist Michael Gregston? A: James Hanratty
Q: Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto are all moons of which planet in our solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: Which controversial Indian-born author won the 1981 Man Booker Prize? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: Elapidae Naja is the scientific name for which snake? A: Cobra
Q: What is the title of the 1959 film in which Hayley Mills plays a young girl who befriends a murderous Polish sailor? A: Tiger Bay
Q: In the game of darts, what score is known as ‘Breakfast’ or ‘Bed and Breakfast’? A: 26
Q: Apollo Creed, Clubber Lang and Ivan Drago are all opponents of which fictional boxer? A: Rocky Balboa
Q: Which English singer appeared in the 1998 film ‘The Wedding Singer’ as himself? A: Billy Idol
Q: The Kyat is the basic monetary unit of which country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: If an object is sherardized, what it is coated with? A: Zinc
Q: A romaine is what variety of foodstuff? A: Lettuce
Q: In animals, an onychetomy is the removal of which part of the body? A: Claws
Q: Which Charles Dickens followed ‘Nicholas Nickleby’? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: The Peewee Boyz were Europe’s first all-male what? A: Cheerleaders
Q: Who does a pediatric doctor specialise in treating? A: Children
Q: Which ancient Greek is known as ‘The Father of Medicine’? A: Hippocrates
Q: In 1975, Junko Tabei became the first woman to reach the summit of which mountain? A: Mount Everest
Q: Peter Gilchrist is a world champion in which sport? A: Billiards
Q: Neossology is the study of which young creatures? A: Birds
Q: What were the first names of 19th Century circus/fairground owner P T Barnum? A: Phineas Taylor
Q: If a bone is navicular, it is shaped like what? A: A boat
Q: In cooking, what is calamares? A: Squid
Q: Port Said stands on which canal? A: Suez Canal
Q: What is the name of the title character in the 2005 animated film ‘Corpse Bride’? A: Emily
Q: What colour light indicates the starboard side of a boat? A: Green
Q: The world’s longest fence is in which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the capital of Jordan? A: Amman
Q: The 1999 film ‘The Insider’, starring Al Pacino and Russell Crowe, is based on a true story about which US industry? A: Tobacco industry
Q: ‘The Starry  – ‘what’ is a painting by Dutch artist Vincent Van Gogh? A: Night
Q: Which British charity has the slogan ‘Refusing to ignore people in crisis’? A: British Red Cross
Q: What is the capital of the Italian region Piedmont? A: Turin
Q: A daikon is what type of vegetable? A: Radish
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Caeci caecos ducentes’ translate to in English? A: Blind are led by the blind
Q: Which 2006 film, starring Channing Tatum, was inspired by Shakespeare’s ‘Twelfth Night’? A: She’s the Man
Q: Garryowen, Shoeing and Mulligrubber are terms used in which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: In medicine, dysuria is pain or difficulty in doing what? A: Urinating
Q: In the UK, the ‘Great Writ’ is better known by what name? A: Habeas Corpus
Q: In October 2011, which planet in our solar system was mistaken for a distress flare by a member of the public in Tynemouth, England? A: Jupiter
Q: Who wrote the 1939 story ‘The Secret Life of Walter Mitty’? A: James Thurber
Q: Which band released a 1979 album entitled ‘The Great Rock and Roll Swindle’? A: Sex Pistols
Q: The Cochiti Dam is in which US state? A: New Mexico
Q: Which golfer won the 2011 US Open? A: Rory McIlroy
Q: Who was the lead singer in the US rock and roll group The Teenagers, who died in February 1968, aged 25? A: Frankie Lymon
Q: Elizabeth Bloomer was the wife of which US President? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Poet and novelist Nazim Hikmet, one of the all-time greatest literary figures of the 20th Century, was what nationality? A: Turkish
Q: Which island lies at the toe of Italy? A: Sicily
Q: What is the cube root of 125? A: 5
Q: Which country has the international vehicle registration CDN? A: Canada
Q: In which English city is highwayman Dick Turpin buried? A: York
Q: ‘What a Night for a Knight’ was the first episode of which US animated television series, first broadcast in September 1969? A: Scooby-Doo, Where Are You
Q: What is the name of fictional character Babar the Elephant’s wife? A: Celeste
Q: Which English actress was born Dora Broadbent? A: Dora Bryan
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books, what is the name of the Weasley’s Shop? A: Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes
Q: Deva was the Roman name for which Cheshire city? A: Chester
Q: In the 1977 film ‘The Eagle Has Landed’, which political figure is the target of a kidnap plot? A: Winston Churchill
Q: The ingredients for the 1947 wedding cake for the future Queen Elizabeth II were a present from the Girl Guides of which country? A: Australia
Q: The Axel Springer company, the largest publishing house in Europe, has its headquarters in which city? A: Berlin
Q: Shiraz is a variety of which fruit? A: Grape
Q: The song ‘White Shadows’ by Coldplay is said to be a tribute to which late Hollywood producer? A: Bruce Paltrow
Q: How many points are scored for a try in Rugby league? A: Four
Q: Which English-born Australian darts player has the nickname ‘The Silver Surfer’? A: Sean Reed
Q: Who played Vince Everett in the 1957 film ‘Jailhouse Rock’? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Alurpoda Melanoleuca is the scientific name for which animal? A: Panda
Q: What was the first British recording to reach number one in the US Billboard Hot 100, in May 1962? A: Stranger on the Shore
Q: The first purpose-built bobsleigh (or bobsled) track was opened in which European resort town in the early 20th Century? A: St Moritz
Q: Tony Curtis played Albert DeSalvo in which 1968 film? A: The Boston Strangler
Q: What is the name of the London art gallery where John Lennon first met Yoko Ono at her art show in November 1966? A: Indica Gallery
Q: What is the title of the 2009 film, directed by Richard Curtis, about a pirate radio station? A: The Boat That Rocked
Q: Michael Parkinson, James Coburn, Clement Freud and Christopher Lee all appear on which 1973 album cover? A: Band on the Run
Q: How many furlongs in a mile? A: Eight
Q: Who was the US President nominee for the Democratic Party in the 2004 Presidential election? A: John Kerry
Q: A sorrel is which animal with a light reddish-brown coat? A: Horse
Q: Who wrote the 1970 book ‘Future Shock’? A: Alvin Toffler
Q: Which Pink Floyd album was released in March 1973? A: Dark Side of the Moon
Q: Which four letter word beginning with A is the name of a  god depicted as a bull, symbolising fertility and strength in war? A: Apis
Q: Which four letter word beginning with E is the yellowish-brown colour of unbleached linen? A: Ecru
Q: Which four letter beginning with F is a puffer fish eaten as a Japanese delicacy, after highly poisonous parts have been removed by an authorised chef? A: Fugu
Q: Which four letter word beginning with G is a large, unwieldy umbrella, named after a Dickens character? A: Gamp
Q: Which four letter word beginning with H is a Romanian or Israeli dance in which the performers form a ring? A: Hora
Q: Which four letter word beginning with I is the person who leads prayers in a Mosque? A: Imam
Q: Which four letter word beginning with J is a soft, long shiny vegetable fibre that can be spun into coarse strong threads? A: Jute
Q: Which four letter word beginning with M describes the Wise Men from the East who brought gifts to the infant Jesus? A: Magi
Q: Which four letter word beginning with N is a star showing a sudden large increase in brightness, then gradually returning to its original state over a period of weeks to years? A: Nova
Q: Which four letter word beginning with P is a beaver skin used as a standard unit of value in the fur trade? A: Plew
Q: Which four letter word beginning withR is a large, flightless South American bird, resembling a small osrtich? A: Rhea
Q: Which four letter word beginning with S is an Arab marketplace or bazaar? A: Souk
Q: Which four letter word beginning with U is the pigmented layer of the eye, lying beneath the sclera and cornea, and comprising of the iris, choroid and ciliary body? A: Uvea
Q: Which four letter word beginning with X is an Arctic fork-tailed gull? A: Xeme
Q: Which four letter word beginning with Y is the basic monetary unit of China, equal to 100 Fen? A: Yuan
Q: Charlotte Cooper won which event at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris? A: Women’s Tennis Singles
Q: What is the title of Sean Connery’s fourth James Bond film? A: Thunderball
Q: Which British satirical and current affairs magazine was first published on 1961? A: Private Eye
Q: A jewelled copy of which famous book of poems was amongst the cargo lost on the Titanic? A: The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Q: ‘2 Become 1’, ‘Say You’ll Be There’ and ‘Viva Forever’ were all number one hit singles by which British group? A: Spice Girls
Q: Who wrote the 1953 novel ‘The Go-Between’? A: L P Hartley
Q: Dahomey was an African kingdom in which present-day republic? A: Benin
Q: Who plays William Hurt’s wife Sarah in the 1988 film ‘The Accidental Tourist’? A: Kathleen Turner
Q: Hymenopetrous Formicidae is the scientific name for which insect? A: Ant
Q: In which UK city is Pleasure Beach Railway Station? A: Blackpool
Q: Which Bronte sister used the pseudonym Currer Bell? A: Charlotte Bronte
Q: What is the title of late singer Roy Orbison’s first UK number hit single? A: Only The Lonely
Q: Which Austrian composer is known as the ‘Father of the String Quartet’? A: Joseph Haydn
Q: Basement, Splash, Upstairs and Robin Hood are all terms used in which game? A: Darts
Q: Saleem Sinai is the chief protagonist and narrator in which 1980 novel by Salman Rushdie? A: Midnight’s Children
Q: The Tom Robinson Band sang about what colour Cortina in 1978? A: Grey
Q: How many players in a team are on the field at one time in a game of shinty? A: 12
Q: The Morganza Spillway (or Morganza Control Structure) is on the western bank of which US river? A: Mississippi River
Q: Lindum Colonia was the Roman name for which English city? A: Lincoln
Q: In the Harry Potter series of book, what is the name of Hermione Granger’s pet cat? A: Crookshanks
Q: Which was the first spaceflight that landed the first humans on the moon in July 1969? A: Apollo 11
Q: Boris Tadic became President of which European country in July 2004? A: Serbia
Q: What are the first names of US film makers Coen brothers? A: Ethan and Joel
Q: Which musical instrument does Jack Nicholson’s character  play in the 1970 film ‘Five Easy Pieces’? A: Piano
Q: Which UK band released a 1971 album entitled ‘Electric Warrior’? A: T Rex
Q: Burgenland, Tyrol and Vorarlberg are all states in which European country? A: Austria
Q: Who was the first US President to serve three full terms in office? A: Franklin D Roosevelt
Q: In the Christian calendar, which day comes after Maundy Thursday? A: Good Friday
Q: ‘Dogs Playing -what’ is a collection of paintings by which artist? A: C M Coolidge
Q: Who wrote the book ‘On the Origin of Species’ in 1859? A: Charles Darwin
Q: What are the full names of fictional television gardening sleuths Rosemary and Thyme? A: Rosemary Boxer and Laura Thyme
Q: What is the name of Siegfried Farnon’s younger brother in the UK television series ‘All Creatures Great and Small’? A: Tristan Farnon
Q: What is the title of Elvis Presley’s first hit single, recorded at Sun Studio in Memphis? A: That’s All Right
Q: The Montreux Jazz Festival is held annually in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: What type of animal is a kudu? A: Antelope
Q: Who was the original host of UK television game show ‘Wheel of Fortune’? A: Nicky Campbell
Q: In which year in the 21st Century did the US senate pass a resolution apologising for slavery? A: 2009
Q: In Greek mythology, one of the 12 Labours of Hercules was to produce ‘what’ item belonging to Amazonian queen Hippolyte? A: Magical Girdle
Q: The Ao dai is the traditional dress of women in which Asian country? A: Vietnam
Q: On a standard dartboard, what number lies opposite 13? A: 8
Q: Who plays Julia Roberts brutal husband in the 1991 film ‘Sleeping With the Enemy’? A: Patrick Bergin
Q: Which country lies in the Eastern Pyrenees between France and Spain? A: Andorra
Q: How many teaspoons in an Imperial tablespoon? A: Three
Q: Who stars as the title characters of the 1925 spoof film ‘Dr Pyckle and Mr Pryde’? A: Stan Laurel
Q: Romano is what type of foodstuff? A: Cheese
Q: Which band released a 2008 album entitled ‘Konk’? A: The Kooks
Q: Mount Apo is the highest point in which Asian country? A: Philippines
Q: In the novel Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte, what is the name of the headmaster of Lowood Institution? A: Mr Brocklehurst
Q: What is the US state capital of Utah? A: Salt Lake City
Q: In the game of Scrabble, how many points is a ‘P’ tile worth? A: Three
Q: Who does John Wayne play in the 1960 film ‘The Alamo’? A: Davy Crockett
Q: The ‘Rodney Riots’ took place on which Caribbean island in October 1968? A: Jamaica
Q: What was the name of Adolph Hitler’s German Shepherd dog? A: Blondi
Q: What is the family surname in the 2003 film ‘Cheaper By The Dozen’, starring Steve Martin? A: Baker
Q: ‘Ionawr’ is Welsh for which month of the year? A: January
Q: The 1950 FIFA World Cup was held in which country? A: Brazil
Q: Who played Dolly Levi in the 1969 film ‘Hello Dolly’? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: 1962 saw the first trans-Atlantic satellite broadcast via which satellite? A: Telstar
Q: The US Statue of Liberty is the work of which French sculptor? A: Frederic Auguste Bartholdi
Q: Professor Caractacus Pott appears in which children’s novel by Ian Fleming? A: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang
Q: According to the folklore of which European country, Santa Claus has a brother called Bells Nichols? A: France
Q: How many events make up a Triathlon? A: Three
Q: What is the name of a small, ground-dwelling songbird and something done for fun? A: Lark
Q: Convict Magwitch appears in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: Great Expectations
Q: What was the surname of US songwriting brothers George and Ira? A: Gershwin
Q: British monarchs are traditionally crowned in which London building? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: What is 1500 in Roman numerals? A: MD
Q: What is the largest natural lake in England? A: Lake Windermere
Q: What value points is the black ball in the game of snooker? A: Seven
Q: How many bails are part of a wicket in a game of cricket? A: Two
Q: Which substance makes bread rise? A: Yeast
Q: Miel is French for which foodstuff? A: Honey
Q: What colour is The Old Kent Road on a Monopoly board? A: Brown
Q: What colour ‘Christmas’ did Elvis Presley sing about in 1964? A: Blue
Q: Pavane, Polonaise and Polka are all types of what activity? A: Dance
Q: Which fictional superhero is known as ‘The Man of Steel’? A: Superman
Q: In the US in the 1920’s and 1930’s the Chicago Piano was a slang term for what? A: Machine gun
Q: In which European city was Giacomo Casanova born? A: Venice
Q: What is the traditional colour of a wedding dress in China? A: Red
Q: The Darya-i-Nur pink diamond is part of the crown jewels of which country? A: Iran
Q: Who was the mother of the Greek god Eros? A: Aphrodite
Q: Which nuts are traditionally given as ‘Wedding Favours’ to a bride’s guests? A: Almonds
Q: How many children did Queen Victoria and Prince Albert have? A: Nine
Q: What is the name of Juliet’s cousin, and Romeo’s rival, in Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet? A: Tybalt
Q: Who was said to have laid his cloak over a puddle for Queen Elizabeth I? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: The 1955 film ‘Love is a Many Splendored Thing’ is set in which city? A: Hong Kong
Q: Which couturier designed Queen Elizabeth II’s wedding dress? A: Norman Hartnell
Q: Actress Meg Ryan married which actor on 14th February 1991? A: Dennis Quaid
Q: What is the name of the 17th Century monk who it is believed was the inventor of champagne? A: Dom Perignon
Q: In an episode of the television show ‘The Simpsons’, who does Lisa give a Valentine card to with a picture of a train saying ‘I Choo Choo Choose You’? A: Ralph
Q: The phrase ‘Sweets to the sweet’ is from which Shakespeare play? A: Hamlet
Q: On which date is St Valentine’s Day traditionally celebrated? A: 14th February
Q: What is Arnold Scwarzeneggar’s profession in the 2002 film ‘Collateral Damage’? A: Firefighter
Q: How many double letter squares are on a standard Scrabble board? A: 24
Q: Which English Romantic Poet had a Newfoundland dog named Boatswain? A: Lord Byron
Q: What must a referee count to when a professional wrestler is pinned? A: Three
Q: Free Byrd is a tribute band to which US band? A: Lynyrd Skynyrd
Q: Which 2009 film was a sequel to the 2006 film ‘The Da Vinci Code’? A: Angels and Demons
Q: ‘Staying Alive’ represents which Bingo number? A: 85
Q: In a standard game of chess, how many pawns does each player start with? A: Eight
Q: Which two colours make up the Arab League flag? A: Green and white
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Tractor Boys’? A: Ipswich Town
Q: ‘Fagus sylvatica’ is the Latin name for which tree? A: Beech
Q: What is the name of fictional character Dr Doolittle’s parrot? A: Polynesia
Q: Which gemstone is known as ‘The Bishop’s Stone’? A: Amethyst
Q: Which professional American bodybuilder, born in 1938, was known by the nickname ‘The Legend’? A: Larry Scott
Q: Every month which has a Friday 13th begins on which day of the week? A: Sunday
Q: What do the French ‘Appellation d’Origine Controlee’ laws regulate? A: Wine
Q: A malophile loves which fruit? A: Apples
Q: Which actor played the title role in the 1968 film ‘Bullitt’? A: Steve McQueen
Q: Professor Philip Brainard, Wilson Croft and Martha George are all characters in which Disney film? A: Flubber
Q: The Brockton Blockbuster was the nickname of which American boxer? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: Hu Jintao became President of which country in 2003? A: China
Q: What does Nature require five of, Custom require seven of, Laziness take nine of and Wickedness take eleven of? A: Hours of sleep
Q: Which US President is depicted on a $2 bank note? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: Speleology is the scientific study or exploration of what? A: Caves
Q: Actors Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly appeared together on screen for the first time in which 1946 film? A: Ziegfeld Follies
Q: John Alderton played teacher Bernard Hedges in which UK television series? A: Please Sir!
Q: What was the first name of US army officer Custer, who died at the Battle of the Little Bighorn in 1876? A: George
Q: Who is the title character in the Shakespeare play ‘The Merchant of Venice’? A: Antonio
Q: The city of Geneva is in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: What is the name of the futuristic nation in the 2012 film ‘The Hunger Games’? A: Panem
Q: Varig Airlines was the first airline founded in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: Who was the only British Prime Minister to hold office during the reigns of three British monarchs? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: A shoat, or shote, is the young of which animal? A: Pig
Q: Near the 18th green, on which British golf course is a deep depression called ‘The Valley of Sin’? A: St Andrews
Q: Catherine Hogarth was the wife of which British novelist? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Former Dutch Guiana is now known by what name? A: Suriname
Q: Nurse Ratched is a character in which 1975 film? A: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
Q: Which Asian country is bordered by Burma, Laos, Cambodia and Malaysia? A: Thailand
Q: Where in our solar system is the Sea of Showers? A: On the moon
Q: In Greek mythology, Actaeon was changed into a stag by who when he saw her bathing, and was then killed by his own dogs? A: Artemis
Q: What type of creature is a serval? A: Cat
Q: Lead singer of The Doors, Jim Morrison, died in July 1971 in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Dorsodynia is a pain in which part of the body? A: Back
Q: The Mont Blanc Tunnel joins which two countries? A: France and Italy
Q: An onager is what type of animal? A: Ass
Q: The Spectre organisation first featured in which James Bond film? A: Dr No
Q: What is the name of the fictional vicar played by Dawn French in the UK television series ‘The Vicar of Dibley’? A: (Boadicea) Geraldine Granger
Q: Who won the Golden Ball Award for best player at the 2006 FIFA World Cup? A: Zinedine Zidane
Q: Who wrote and recorded the 1966 song ‘Mellow Yellow’? A: Donovan
Q: Which English football club play their home games at White Hart Lane? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: Who was the mother of British monarch King George V? A: Alexandra of Denmark
Q: ‘Half the World Away’ by Oasis is the theme tune to which UK television series? A: The Royle Family
Q: The Metro Shopping Centre is in which English town? A: Gateshead
Q: Composers Beethoven and Schubert both died after completing which number symphony? A: Nine
Q: Which two numbers on a phone keypad have no letters? A: 1 and 0
Q: Which US state is known as The Land of Enchantment? A: New Mexico
Q: Boxer Primo Carnera was known as the ‘Ambling ‘what’? A: Alp
Q: Which is the smallest state by area in the US? A: Rhode Island
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Res ipsa loquitur’ translate to in English? A: The thing speaks for itself
Q: What are the name of the green flower buds used in tartar sauce? A: Capers
Q: Who became Prime Minister of India in January 1966? A: Indira Gandhi
Q: Which late British author of ‘A Clockwork Orange’ had a blue plaque unveiled in October 2012 at Manchester University, where he studied? A: Anthony Burgess
Q: In 1959, Luna 2 became the first man-made object to crash where? A: On the moon
Q: Who directed the 1955 film ‘To Catch a Thief’? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: Which breed of dog is cartoon character Snoopy? A: Beagle
Q: The medical condition Ichthyosis affects which part of the body? A: Skin
Q: What is a female mouse called? A: Doe
Q: What type of musical instrument is a Burns Bison? A: Guitar
Q: Donatello’s Bronze Statue of David shows David’s foot on whose severed head? A: Goliath’s
Q: Mount Nemrut is in which European country? A: Turkey
Q: Which musical instrument is used in the ‘Third Man Theme’, otherwise known as ‘The Harry Lime Theme’? A: Zither
Q: Karl Stromberg is the name of the villain in which James Bond film? A: The Spy Who Loved Me
Q: Sir William Vernon Harcourt was Home Secretary in which British Prime Minister’s government? A: William Gladstone
Q: What colour is the snake on the logo of car manufacturer Alfa Romeo? A: Green
Q: Tocology is the study of what in humans? A: Childbirth
Q: The Rufiyaa is the currency of which island group? A: Maldives
Q: Who was the father of English monarch King Henry I? A: William the Conqueror
Q: The first FA cup final was held at which London venue in 1872? A: Kennington Oval
Q: What was the name of the England football team mascot for the 1966 FIFA World Cup? A: World Cup Willie
Q: Which English football club play their home games at Pride Park Stadium? A: Derby County
Q: Royal Charleroi SC is a football club in which European country? A: Belgium
Q: Which English football club won the 2000 FA Cup? A: Chelsea
Q: Which number shirt does footballer Wayne Rooney wear for Manchester United? A: 10
Q: Which Scottish football club is nicknamed ‘The Jags’? A: Partick Thistle FC
Q: Which national football team won gold medals at the 2012 Olympic Games, after beating Brazil 2-1? A: Mexico
Q: The IFFHS (International Federation of Football History and Statistics) named which goalkeeper The Best of the 20th Century? A: Lev Yashin
Q: Former footballer Vinnie Jones captained which national team? A: Wales
Q: Who scored the final goal in the 1966 FIFA World Cup final? A: Geoff Hurst
Q: Which English football club has the Latin inscription ‘Audere est facere’ on its badge? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: Which 1981 film , directed by John Huston, starred footballers Bobby Moore, Pele and Osvaldo Ardiles? A: Escape to Victory
Q: The Marshall islands are in which body of water? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: Which 1960 British film is subtitled ‘How to Win Without Actually Cheating’? A: School For Scoundrels
Q: The Triton Fountain in the Piazza Barberini is in which Italian city? A: Rome
Q: British comedian Jasper Carrott was a director of which English football club? A: Birmingham City FC
Q: In the board game ‘Operation’, which part of ‘Cavity Sam’s’ body lights up if the player touches the metal edge with the tweezers while removing a body part? A: Nose
Q: What colour jersey is worn by the best-placed rider under 26 years of age in the Tour de France? A: White
Q: What was the first name of British Field Marshall Kitchener, who played a central role in the early part of the First World War? A: Horatio
Q: How many hurdles are in a 100 metre women’s hurdle race? A: 10
Q: Abyssinia was the former name of which country? A: Ethiopia
Q: What is the pin, or bolt, called which forms the pivot of a hinge? A: Pintle
Q: Milwaukee Deep is the deepest part of which Ocean? A: Atlantic
Q: In which English castle did King John die in 1216? A: Newark Castle
Q: Who played Leonardo DiCaprio’s murdered father in the 2002 film ‘Gangs of New York’? A: Liam Neeson
Q: Whipsnade Zoo is in which English county? A: Bedfordshire
Q: Which US band played their legendary concert at the Fillmore East in Manhattan in March 1971? A: The Allman Brothers Band
Q: Who was the mother of King Edward VI of England? A: Jane Seymour
Q: A seriema is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: In Greek mythology, Aeolus was the ruler of which weather feature? A: The winds
Q: The River Danube flows into which body of water? A: The Black Sea
Q: What is the title of the 2001 film starring John Travolta, Hugh Jackman, Halle Berry and Vinnie Jones? A: Swordfish
Q: What is the state capital of Tasmania? A: Hobart
Q: The Valais is a canton of which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: On which British overseas territory was fashion designer John Galliano born? A: Gibraltar
Q: What is the name of the famous US Military Academy in New York? A: West Point
Q: What is the official language of Nigeria? A: English
Q: Which US Tour de France winner had his contract with Nike terminated in 2012 because of accusations of doping? A: Lance Armstrong
Q: Who plays Christina Walters in the 2002 film ‘The Sweetest Thing’? A: Cameron Diaz
Q: Thomas Derbyshire and Robert Harper are the real names of which British comedy duo? A: Cannon and Ball
Q: Prudence, Justice, Temperance and Fortitude are the Four Cardinal ‘what’? A: Virtues
Q: Who was named BBC’s Sports Personality of the Year in 2001? A: David Beckham
Q: Which British monarch was the last Emperor of India? A: King George VI
Q: Tess Coleman, Jake and Pei Pei are all characters in which 2003 Disney film? A: Freaky Friday
Q: The seaport of Dar-es Salaam is in which African country? A: Tanzania
Q: How long, in metres, is an Olympic size swimming pool? A: 50 metres
Q: The bouzouki is the traditional musical instrument of which European country? A: Greece
Q: In the game of snooker, which colour ball should be pocketed after all the reds? A: Yellow
Q: Who sang the theme song to the BBC television series ‘Dad’s Army’? A: Bud Flanagan
Q: The A3 road crosses which bridge over the River Thames? A: London Bridge
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Baggies’? A: West Bromwich Albion FC
Q: What is the name of the coffee bean, the most expensive in the world, which is eaten and excreted by the civet? A: Kopi Luwak
Q: On a cat, ‘Vibrissae’ are more commonly known by what name? A: Whiskers
Q: What was the surname of British horticulturalist and garden designer Gertrude, who died in 1932? A: Jekyll
Q: Which British singer released a 2003 album entitled ‘Life For Rent’? A: Dido
Q: Bankstown Airport is in which Australian state? A: New South Wales
Q: Larry Lurex was the original stage name of which late singer? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: The, now extinct, dodo was native to which island in the Indian Ocean? A: Mauritius
Q: How many gold rings, altogether, did ‘My True Love give to me’ over the Twelve Days of Christmas? A: 40
Q: 1960’s British singer Allan Smethurst was better known as ‘The Singing _ ‘what’? A: Postman
Q: Sable is the heraldic term for which colour? A: Black
Q: The Kodiak bear is native to which US state? A: Alaska
Q: The theme song to children’s television series ‘Fireball XL5’ was sung on karaoke by which actor in the 2000 London gangster film ‘Love, Honour and Obey’? A: Sean Pertwee
Q: Which sport in Britain is regulated by the GBGB? A: Greyhound racing
Q: Who became the manager of (Glasgow) Rangers Football Club in May 2011? A: Ally McCoist
Q: Which fictional villain has the real name Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot? A: The Penguin
Q: How high, in inches, are the hurdles in a men’s 110 metre Olympic hurdle race? A: 42 inches
Q: Formerly called ‘Scrabulous’, what is the name of the online word game based on Scrabble? A: Lexulous
Q: In which year was the Bank of France (Banque de France) established? A: 1800
Q: What is the title of the 2004 film which stars Imelda Staunton as a back-street abortionist? A: Vera Drake
Q: Plutophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Wealth
Q: Who was said to have ridden naked through the streets of Coventry in the 11th Century? A: Lady Godiva
Q: Which country’s football team won the 1986 FIFA World Cup? A: Argentina
Q: Martedi is Italian for which day of the week? A: Tuesday
Q: In the 1965 film ‘The Great Race’, starring Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis, the race is from New York to which city? A: Paris
Q: What was the name of the pet Shitzu/Bichon frise owned by English television presenter Paul O’Grady? A: Buster
Q: What value is an ‘L’ tile in the game of Scrabble? A: 1 point
Q: What is the US state capital of Tennessee? A: Nashville
Q: In the novel ‘Jane Eyre’ by Charlotte Bronte, what is the first name of Mr Rochester’s French ward? A: Adele
Q: Which US band released a 2007 album entitled ‘The Long Road Out of Eden’? A: The Eagles
Q: A roc is what type of giant mythological creature, mentioned in the Arabian Nights? A: Bird
Q: Which author wrote the 1886 novel ‘The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde’? A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: What is the name for the bending of light as it passes from one medium to another? A: Refraction
Q: ‘The Stonewall Riots’ took place in which US city in June 1969? A: New York
Q: Which real-life couple played the parents in the 1996 film ‘Matilda’? A: Danny DeVito and Rhea Perlman
Q: Who plays Huggy Bear Brown in the 2004 film ‘Starsky and Hutch’? A: Snoop Dogg
Q: Which English monarch formed The Yeomen of the Guard? A: Henry VII
Q: A durian is what type of foodstuff? A: Fruit
Q: In the UK, ‘An Act for the better securing the Liberty of the Subject, and for the Prevention of Imprisonment beyond the seas’ is commonly known by what name? A: The Habeas Corpus Act
Q: Which singer released a 1993 album entitled ‘Music Box’? A: Mariah Carey
Q: US President Herbert Hoover belonged to which political party? A: Republican Party
Q: George Burns and Walter Matthau starred in which 1975 film about two ageing vaudevillains? A: The Sunshine Boys
Q: Which country hosted the 2010 FIBA World Championship international basketball tournament? A: Turkey
Q: Mamucium was the Roman name for which English city? A: Manchester
Q: Who was the captain of the English cricket team which won the 2005 Ashes victory over Australia? A: Michael Vaughan
Q: Roman numerals MCMLXXIV represent which year? A: 1974
Q: How many points are scored for a dropped goal in rugby league? A: One
Q: ‘The Persistence of ‘what’ is a 1931 painting by Salvador Dali? A: Memory
Q: Constanze Weber married which composer in 1782? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: St Patrick’s Day falls during which month of the year? A: March
Q: Pan Troglodytes is the scientific name for which animal? A: Chimpanzee
Q: The former Malagasy Republic is now known by what name? A: Madagascar
Q: Pyongyang is the capital of which country? A: North Korea
Q: A hammerkop is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Ballet dancers Margot Fonteyn and Rudolph Nureyev first danced together at the 1962 Royal Ballet performance of which ballet? A: Giselle
Q: What is the title of the 1995 film in which Robin Williams is trapped in a board game for 26 years? A: Jumanji
Q: In the human body, what does the disease leukaemia affect? A: The blood
Q: What is phonetics the study of? A: Speech sounds
Q: How many dots are on a pair of regular dice? A: 42
Q: The Aleutian Islands are part of which US state? A: Alaska
Q: In 1930 in the UK, a speed limit of how many miles per hour was imposed on motorists in built up areas? A: 30 mph
Q: Which actress sang ‘Happy Birthday’ to US President John F Kennedy on his 45th birthday? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: A muselet is the wire which holds ‘what’ in a bottle of champagne? A: Cork
Q: Scafell Pike is the highest mountain in which European country? A: England
Q: Isaac Singer obtained a US patent in August 1851 for his improvements of which type of machine? A: Sewing machine
Q: Which is the third largest political party in the US? A: Libertarian Party
Q: Who played Bernardo O’Reilly in the 1960 film ‘The Magnificent Seven’? A: Charles Bronson
Q: Australia Day is celebrated during which month of the year? A: January
Q: In 2008, US actress/tv show host Ellen DeGeneres married which Ali McBeal actress? A: Portia de Rossi
Q: The Star of ‘who’ appears on the National flag of Israel? A: David
Q: What was the name of the ‘St Trinians’ cartoonist? A: Ronald Searle
Q: In medicine, dysphagia is difficulty in doing what? A: Swallowing
Q: The town of Crotch Lake is in which Canadian province? A: Ontario
Q: A ‘Singing Hinny’ is what type of foodstuff’? A: Cake
Q: Claudia was the first name of the wife of which US President? A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: What is the cube root of 912,673? A: 97
Q: Which South American country has the International Vehicle Registration RCH? A: Chile
Q: Notorious British peer Richard John Bingham is better known by what name? A: Lord Lucan
Q: Who plays Jack’s mother in the 1995 film ‘Jack and Sarah’? A: Judi Dench
Q: In which decade of the 20th Century did the Alcatraz Island federal penitentiary close? A: 1960’s
Q: What is the official language of Liechtenstein? A: German
Q: US television presenter Jerry Springer was born in which city? A: London
Q: Tony Lumpkin, Constance Neville and George Hastings are all characters in which play by Irish author Oliver Goldsmith? A: She Stoops to Conquer
Q: What is the largest brass section instrument in an orchestra? A: Tuba
Q: What was the name of the first human spaceflight in which Yuri Gugarin was sent into space in April 1961? A: Vostok 1
Q: In cooking, what is the main ingredient of a pongal dish? A: Rice
Q: Who wrote the ‘Winnie the Pooh’ books? A: A A Milne
Q: What colours make up the national flag of Switzerland? A: Red and white
Q: Who designed the stained glass Baptistry window for Coventry cathedral? A: John Piper
Q: What is the name of the pathway in the human body along which food enters and and solid wastes are expelled? A: Alimentary canal
Q: In 1585, who established the first British colony in North America, which was later abandoned? A: Walter Raleigh
Q: Hydref is Welsh for which month of the year? A: October
Q: What is the first name of the wife of US business magnate and philanthropist Bill Gates? A: Melinda
Q: Kelvinhall, Cowcaddens and Kinning Park are all underground stations in which European city? A: Glasgow
Q: What was the former name of the Willis Tower in Chicago, USA? A: Sears Tower
Q: Which record label famously rejected a Beatles audition tape in 1962, saying that guitar bands were on the way out? A: Decca
Q: Puffer, Angel and Dog are all types of which creature? A: Fish
Q: What is a male otter called? A: Dog
Q: Which flower is known as ‘The wind flower’? A: Anemone
Q: Who directed the 1996 film ‘Secrets and Lies’? A: Mike Leigh
Q: Classic Judaism teaches that there will be no prophet greater than who? A: Moses
Q: The Tatmadaw are the armed forces of which Asian country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: Who won the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize? A: Martin Luther King Jr
Q: The ‘what’ Cap is one of the most poisonous toadstools in the world? A: Death
Q: The Orascom business group is based in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: A mynah is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: The cast of which US television show had a 2009 hit with ‘Don’t Stop Believin’? A: Glee
Q: ‘Stairway to Heaven’ represents which Bingo number? A: 27
Q: Which English singer released an 2004 album entitled ‘Unwritten’? A: Natasha Bedingfield
Q: Actor Neil Burgess plays Barry Scott in the UK television commercial for which cleaning product? A: Cillit Bang
Q: Oscar de la Hoya, Jack Dempsey and George Chuvalo are all associated with which sport? A: Boxing
Q: What is a Jewish place of worship called? A: Synagogue
Q: In the 2012 Olympic Games, who became Britain’s first Taekwondo Olympic medallist? A: Sarah Stevenson
Q: Who played Smee in the 1991 film ‘Hook’? A: Bob Hoskins
Q: Which French king was the husband of Marie Antoinette? A: King Louis XVI
Q: Who became President of Argentina in October 1973 until his death in July 1974? A: Juan Peron
Q: What is the smallest garden bird in Britain? A: Goldcrest
Q: Which Prime Minister opened Britain’s first motorway? A: Harold MacMillan
Q: Miranda, Ariel and Umbriel are all moons of which planet in our solar system? A: Uranus
Q: In the nursery rhyme who ‘Killed cock robin’? A: The sparrow
Q: How long is a volleyball court in feet? A: 60 feet
Q: Who wrote the 1894 novel ‘The Jungle Book’? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: Which British actor/comedian is the voice of  Dr Nefario in the 2010 animated film ‘Despicable Me’? A: Russell Brand
Q: Phengophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Daylight
Q: If a gemstone is ‘cabochon cut’ what hasn’t it got? A: Facets
Q: Which part of the body is on the Nokia logo? A: Hands
Q: How many toes does a cat normally have on each back paw? A: Four
Q: What type of animal is a Lipizzaner? A: Horse
Q: What was the title of British actor Oliver Reed’s last film? A: Gladiator
Q: Which country hosted the 1968 Summer Olympics? A: Mexico
Q: Peter Parker is the alter-ego of which fictional superhero? A: Spiderman
Q: What are the native people of Australia called? A: Aborigines
Q: Which US city did Scott McKenzie sing about in 1967? A: San Francisco
Q: Television presenter Kirsty, singer Will and former cricketer Bradley all share which surname? A: Young
Q: Which domestic animal was worshipped by the ancient Egyptians? A: The cat
Q: What value points is the brown ball in a game of snooker? A: Four
Q: Which battle is known as ‘Custer’s Last Stand’? A: Battle of the Little Bighorn
Q: What is the name of a long-bodied marine fish and a person who unscrupulously exploits or swindles others? A: Shark
Q: What is the national animal of Finland? A: Brown bear
Q: How many squares are on a chess board? A: 64
Q: In the human body, molars, canines and incisors are all what? A: Teeth
Q: How many events make up a biathlon? A: Two
Q: Which group of islands lie off the coast of Normandy, France? A: Channel Islands
Q: Former British Prime minister Margaret Thatcher has what middle name? A: Hilda
Q: Cross, Tail and Head are all types of which weather condition? A: Wind
Q: Balmoral Castle is in which European country? A: Scotland
Q: The English resort of Clacton-on-Sea lies on which body of water? A: North Sea
Q: The winner of the UK television series ‘The Apprentice’ gets the chance to work for which British businessman? A: Alan Sugar
Q: On a regular clockface, which number lies opposite number one? A: 7
Q: What colour is the ten Euro banknote? A: Red
Q: Which English entertainer was born Thomas William Hicks in December 1936? A: Tommy Steele
Q: The International Inferno Race is a four-day amateur event in which sport? A: Skiing
Q: Dyce Airport is in which British city? A: Aberdeen
Q: Who did Richard Nixon defeat in 1968 to become US President? A: Hubert H Humphrey
Q: The famous ‘Man in the Iron Mask’ died in which prison in 1703? A: The Bastille
Q: Psellismophobia is the fear of doing what? A: Stuttering
Q: What was the name of the motel in Tennessee in which Martin Luther King Jr was shot dead in 1968? A: Lorraine Motel
Q: How many Harry Potter books were written by J K Rowling? A: Seven
Q: During which month of 1971 did Britain change its currency to decimal? A: February
Q: In the novel ‘Jane Eyre’ by Charlotte Bronte in which year was Jane born? A: 1820
Q: At which English castle in Northamptonshire was King Richard III born? A: Fotheringhay Castle
Q: Who was the mother of King Richard III of England? A: Cecily Neville, Duchess of York
Q: Which English monarch was the elder brother of King Richard III? A: King Edward IV
Q: King Richard III was the last of the Plantagenet dynasty and last king of which royal house? A: House of York
Q: What is the name of the battlefield where, traditionally, King Richard III of England died? A: Bosworth Field
Q: Who defeated King Richard III in the last battle of the ‘Wars of the Roses’? A: Henry Tudor (Henry VII)
Q: Before he became king of England, Richard III was Duke of ‘where’? A: Gloucester
Q: Who was the wife of King Richard III of England? A: Anne Neville
Q: Who was the only child of King Richard III of England and his queen consort? A: Edward (of Middleham)
Q: The English ‘Wars of the Roses’ were fought between which two ‘Houses’? A: York and Lancaster
Q: In English history what colour was the rose of the House of York? A: White
Q: ‘Richard III’ is a late 16th Century play by which English playwright and poet? A: William Shakespeare
Q: Middleham Castle, where Richard III spent several years of his childhood, is in which English county? A: North Yorkshire
Q: Who succeeded Richard III to the English throne? A: King Henry VII
Q: In which year did King Richard III of England die? A: 1485
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Amor caecus est’ translate to in English? A: Love is blind
Q: Who wrote the 1976 novel ‘Roots: The Saga of an American Family’? A: Alex Haley
Q: On which part of the body would a Hwagwan be worn? A: Head
Q: How many zeros are in a US billion? A: Nine
Q: Innsbruck is the capital of which Austrian state? A: Tyrol
Q: Which UK retail chain sells the ‘Tu’ range of clothing? A: Sainsburys
Q: In May 1973, which male tennis player challenged and defeated Margaret Court, the world’s number one women’s player in their ‘Mother’s Day’ Match? A: Bobby Riggs
Q: What is the process of gathering fabric by means of drawn or elasticated threads in parallel rows? A: Shirring
Q: Northern Rhodesia is now known by what name? A: Zambia
Q: Thermodynamics is the study of what? A: Heat
Q: A ‘Nelipot’ is someone who is said to walk without what? A: Shoes
Q: Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, had what middle name? A: Rose
Q: Phong Nha-Ke Bang National Park is in which country? A: Vietnam
Q: What was the name of the first US space station, launched in 1973? A: Skylab
Q: What breed of dog is a Blenheim? A: Spaniel
Q: In medicine, dysphonia is difficulty in doing what? A: Speaking
Q: Sophie, Mark and Jeremy are the three main characters in which UK Channel 4 television series? A: Peep Show
Q: What type of animal is a chital? A: Deer
Q: Who became the first female Prime Minister of Israel, in 1969? A: Golda Meir
Q: US actress Susan Tomalin is better known by what name? A: Susan Sarandon
Q: Who plays Dr John Becker in the US television series ‘Becker’? A: Ted Danson
Q: Freetown is the capital of which African country? A: Sierra Leone
Q: Russian doctor Ivan Pavlov was known for his experiments on which animals? A: Dogs
Q: Which British monarch died in October 1760? A: King George II
Q: In nature, what are Spring and Neap? A: Tides
Q: The Singapura is one of the smallest breeds of which animal? A: Cat
Q: The First World War began during which month of 1914? A: July
Q: Who wrote the 1963 novel ‘Ice Station Zebra’? A: Alistair MacLean
Q: ‘The Fight of the Millennium’ took place in Las Vegas in September 1999 between Felix Trinidad and which other boxer? A: Oscar de la Hoya
Q: In which year was the maximum speed limit of 70 mph introduced in the UK? A: 1965
Q: What was the name of the speech delivered by Martin Luther King Jr in Washington DC in August 1963? A: I Have a Dream
Q: Roman Abramovich bought which English football club in 2003? A: Chelsea FC
Q: Phobophobia is the irrational fear of developing a what? A: Phobia
Q: Which famous British graffiti artist describes himself as a ‘Quality Vandal’? A: Banksy
Q: Mount Tiede is a volcanic peak in which group of islands? A: Canary Islands
Q: What is the title of J K Rowling’s first book for adults? A: The Casual Vacancy
Q: The Kosheh Massacre took place in which African country in 2000? A: Egypt
Q: How many stations are there on the Chicago ‘L’ rail system? A: 145
Q: Actor and theatre producer Bill Kenwright became chairman of which English football club in 2004? A: Everton FC
Q: The Parietal lobe and Temporal lobe are part of which organ of the body? A: Brain
Q: How many white stripes are there on the national flag of Greece? A: Four
Q: In which US city was Senator Robert F Kennedy assassinated in June 1968? A: Los Angeles
Q: Who commanded the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia during the American Civil War? A: General Robert E Lee
Q: Which London university was founded in 1837 as the Government School of Design? A: Royal College of Art
Q: How many tiles are there in a standard game of Scrabble? A: 100
Q: The Mount in Shrewsbury, Shropshire was the birthplace of which 19th Century naturalist? A: Charles Darwin
Q: ‘The Beehive’ is the common name of the Executive Wing of the parliamentary building in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Which modern-day country was known as the Khmer Republic between 1970 and 1975? A: Cambodia
Q: The wine Retsina is native to which European country? A: Greece
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in June 2007? A: Gordon Brown
Q: The Naga Viper is what type of foodstuff? A: Chilli pepper
Q: Who hosted the ‘$64,000 Question’ on British television? A: Bob Monkhouse
Q: Eid al-Fitr is a Muslim holiday which marks the end of what? A: Ramadan
Q: In the novel ‘The Lord of the Rings’, who is the King of Rohan? A: Theoden
Q: Rodney Pattison won Olympic gold medals for Britain in 1968 and 1972 in which sport? A: Sailing
Q: Which historic figure was reputed to have said ‘The die is cast’ as they stood at the edge of the Rubicon River? A: Julius Caeser
Q: Gephyrophobia is the abnormal fear of which type of structures? A: Bridges
Q: A sheepshead is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the King of Corinth, condemned to eternal punishment for deceitfulness to push a heavy rock up a steep hill which would always roll down again? A: Sisyphus
Q: What is the capital of Belarus? A: Minsk
Q: The tune to which pop song is used in the UK television advert ‘Confused.com’? A: YMCA
Q: In which English palace was British politician Winston Churchill born? A: Blenheim Palace
Q: Who wrote the 1884 novel ‘The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn’? A: Mark Twain
Q: The ptarmigan belongs to which bird family? A: Grouse
Q: A cartomaniac is a collector of what? A: Maps
Q: Juliana was the queen of which European country between 1948 and 1980? A: Netherlands
Q: Oedema is the technical term for which medical condition? A: Dropsy
Q: Composer Joseph-Maurice Ravel was born in which country? A: France
Q: In football, which British goalkeeper was known as ‘The Cat’? A: Peter Bonetti
Q: Which city has the largest port in Europe? A: Rotterdam
Q: Pyrosis is the medical tern for which common complaint? A: Heartburn
Q: The Oaks horse race is run at which British race course? A: Epsom Downs
Q: Turkey, Clover, Nadler and Gutter are all terms used in which game? A: Ten-pin bowling
Q: Cricketer Herschelle Gibbs was born in which country? A: South Africa
Q: The Athabasca oil sands are large deposits of heavy crude oil located in which country? A: Canada
Q: Disco Volante is the name of Emilio Largo’s yacht in which James Bond film? A: Thunderball
Q: Who wrote the 1952 book ‘The Borrowers’? A: Mary Norton
Q: ‘The curfew tolls the knell of parting day’ is the first line of which poem? A: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard
Q: Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was Member of Parliament for which London borough? A: Finchley
Q: A seismograph is an instrument which measures and records details of what? A: Earthquakes
Q: Who played Sir James bond in the 1967 comedy spy film ‘Casino Royale’? A: David Niven
Q: What is Madame Bovary’s first name in the 1856 novel by Gustave Flaubert? A: Emma
Q: On a QWERTY keyboard, which two letters have raised marks to assist with touch typing? A: F and J
Q: Who is the Roman goddess of the dawn? A: Aurora
Q: A Silver Jubilee is the anniversary of how many years of a significant event? A: 25
Q: What is the young of a giraffe called? A: Calf
Q: The Blisworth Canal Tunnel is in which English county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: What was the maiden name of Prince Charles’ second wife Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall? A: Shand
Q: Atonement, Enduring Love and Solar are all novels by which Author? A: Ian McEwan
Q: Which composer wrote the ‘Bridal Chorus’, popularly known as ‘Here Comes the Bride’? A: Richard Wagner
Q: How many bottles of champagne in a Jeroboam? A: Four
Q: Salix Babylonica is the Latin name for which tree? A: Weeping willow
Q: In which country is Lake Onega? A: Russia
Q: Which planet has 687 Earth days to one year? A: Mars
Q: Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal played two sheep herders in which 2005 film? A: Brokeback Mountain
Q: What is the Silver Streak in the 1976 film of the same name starring Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor? A: A train
Q: Who played Charlie Croker in the 2003 film ‘The Italian Job’? A: Mark Wahlberg
Q: Which sport is the subject of the 1992 film ‘The Mighty Ducks’? A: Ice hockey
Q: What is the title of the 1975 film in which a party of schoolgirls are on a day  out on St Valentine’s Day in 1900 where three girls and their teacher go missing? A: Picnic at Hanging Rock
Q: In which 1968 film did Benny Hill play the toymaker? A: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang
Q: Robert Redford and Jane Fonda play newlyweds Paul and Corie Bratter in which 1967 film? A: Barefoot in the Park
Q: Who played the fire chief Michael O’Hallorhan in the 1974 film ‘Towering Inferno’? A: Steve McQueen
Q: What is the occupation of Richard E Grant in the 1995 film ‘Jack and Sarah’? A: Lawyer
Q: Who played the title role in the 1980 film ‘American Gigolo’? A: Richard Gere
Q: Who directed and starred in the 1992 film ‘Unforgiven’? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Ray Winstone and Ian McShane starred in the 2009 crime drama ’44 Inch ‘what’? A: Chest
Q: What are the first names of the Roses played by Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas in the 1989 film ‘The War of the Roses’? A: Barbara and Oliver
Q: What is the title of the song in the 1981 film ‘Arthur’ that won the Academy Award for Best Song? A: Best That You Can Do (Arthur’s Theme)
Q: In the 2000 film ‘Serendipity’, John Cusack and Kate Beckinsale meet in which New York shop? A: Bloomingdales
Q: Which 1961 film, set in New York, is based on Shakespeare’s ‘Romeo and Juliet’? A: West Side Story
Q: What does Fe represent in the Periodic Table? A: Iron
Q: Which bean is the main flavour of the liqueur Tia Maria? A: Coffee bean
Q: In medicine, an Amsler grid is used for examining which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Mieszko I was the first historically documented ruler of which modern-day European country? A: Poland
Q: Avarua is the capital of which island group? A: The Cook Islands
Q: A ‘prie-dieu’ is a narrow desk-like bench on which to kneel and do what? A: Pray
Q: ‘Wot a lot I got’ was the advertising slogan for which confectionery items? A: Smarties
Q: Which fruit is the international symbol of hospitality? A: Pineapple
Q: Serial and Parallel are ports found in what? A: A computer
Q: The Painted Desert lies in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: Rapper/songwriter Eminem made his official film debut in which 2002 film? A: 8 Mile
Q: Kenny Shiels became permanent manager of which Scottish football club in 2011? A: Kilmarnock
Q: Which colour represents Line 11 of the Paris Metro rail system? A: Brown
Q: Which Stephen King novel is said to have been rejected by 30 different publishers? A: Carrie
Q: In the Bible, what is the surname of Judas, who kissed Jesus in the garden of Gethsemene? A: Iscariot
Q: A biped is an animal with how many feet? A: Two
Q: Egg, Barcelona, Ball and Korum are all types of which item of furniture? A: Chair
Q: 46664 was the prison number of which famous political figure? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Who plays David Starsky in the 2004 film ‘Starsky and Hutch’? A: Ben Stiller
Q: Columbus Day in the US is celebrated during which month? A: October
Q: Mombasa is the chief port of which country? A: Kenya
Q: What was the middle name of former US President Richard Nixon? A: Milhous
Q: Who was the last Tudor monarch of England? A: Elizabeth I
Q: What colour was the medal ribbon on the Naval Victoria Cross until 1918? A: Blue
Q: Who became head of the KGB in May 1967? A: Yuri Andropov
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Ars gratia artis’ translate to in English? A: Art for art’s sake
Q: A nullipara is a woman who has never done what? A: Given birth
Q: What is the capital of Lithuania? A: Vilnius
Q: Vectis was the Roman name for which island off the coast of Britain? A: Isle of Wight
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies opposite 6? A: 11
Q: What was the name of William Shakespeare’s twins by Ann Hathaway? A: Hamnet and Judith
Q: Which fictional character is known as ‘The boy who never grew up’? A: Peter Pan
Q: What is the highest reward bestowed by the Royal Horticultural Society? A: Victoria Medal of Honour
Q: What is the official language of Zambia? A: English
Q: Which English singer has a son called Zachary Jackson Levon? A: Elton John
Q: British monarchs George V, Edward VIII and George VI all reigned during which year? A: 1936
Q: Business magnate Bill gates dropped out which US university? A: Harvard University
Q: A tetrachordo bouzouki has how many pairs of strings? A: Four
Q: Dermatophobia is the irrational fear of disease of which part of the body? A: Skin
Q: The State Hermitage Museum is in which Russian city? A: St Petersburg
Q: The Diamantina Trench lies in which ocean? A: Indian ocean
Q: Colleen McLoughlin married which English footballer in 2008? A: Wayne Rooney
Q: In December 2006 a version of the board game ‘Operation’ was released in which the player operates on which fictional superhero? A: Spider-Man
Q: The Piazza Navona is in which European city? A: Rome
Q: Which US President was shot by assassin Charles J Guiteau in 1881? A: James A Garfield
Q: Jacob Epstein and Barbara Hepworth were famous in which branch of the arts? A: Sculpture
Q: Which US psychologist and writer popularised the carchphrase ‘Turn on, tune in, drop out’? A: Timothy Leary
Q: Brothers Tom and Ben Youngs joined which English rugby union club in 2006? A: Leicester Tigers
Q: Known as ‘The Liberator of South America’, political leader Simon Bolivar became President of which country in 1813? A: Venezuela
Q: Who wrote the 1930 novel ‘The Maltese Falcon’? A: Dashiel Hammett
Q: During which year did British sovereignty of Hong Kong end? A: 1997
Q: Which 1968 film is partially based on the novel ‘Sentinel’ by Arthur C Clarke? A: 2001:A Space Odyssey
Q: A labeorphilist collects what type of bottles? A: Beer bottles
Q: What was the pen-name of British writer Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch? A: Q
Q: Remy, Colette Tatou and Anton Ego are all characters in which 2007 Disney film? A: Ratatouille
Q: What is the ‘Fifth Pillar of Islam’? A: The Hajj
Q: How many events are in a tetrathlon? A: Four
Q: In which country was the radio telescope situated that transmitted pictures all over the world of Neil Armstrong walking on the moon in 1969? A: Australia
Q: Which Peanuts cartoon character is famous for saying ‘There is no heavier burden than a great potential’? A: Linus
Q: Which is the largest of the Balearic Islands? A: Majorca
Q: Who was the mother of King James I of England? A: Mary, Queen of Scots
Q: In 2010, who became Germany’s youngest President at the age of 51? A: Christian Wulff
Q: What is the title of the fourth Harry Potter film? A: Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Q: Ambridge is the home of which BBC series? A: The Archers
Q: Which English television presenter served as the High Sheriff of The Isle of Wight between 2008 and 2009? A: Alan Titchmarsh
Q: What are the first names of the two former boxing brothers Spinks? A: Leon and Michael
Q: Somen Banerjee and Paul Snider founded which male touring dance troupe in 1979? A: Chippendales
Q: Which famous London building was destroyed by fire in November 1936? A: The Crystal Palace
Q: What colour is the name of a US Ivy league university? A: Brown
Q: How many books, altogether, make up The Bible? A: 66
Q: What is Margaret Houlihan’s nickname in the US television series M*A*S*H? A: Hotlips
Q: What is the name of the official country residence of the British Prime Minister? A: Chequers
Q: In poetry, a quatrain is a stanza or complete poem consisting of how many lines of verse? A: Four
Q: Who wrote the 1921 book ‘Scaramouche’? A: Rafael Sabatini
Q: Laguna del Carbon (Coal Lagoon) is the lowest point in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: Which queen was the last British monarch to veto an Act of Parliament? A: Queen Anne
Q: ‘The ultimate driving machine’ is an advertising slogan for which make of car? A: BMW
Q: In the US, which state lies to the east of Arizona? A: New Mexico
Q: Which is the eighth planet from the sun? A: Neptune
Q: What was the name of the horse ridden by jockey Frankie Dettori in the 2007 Epsom Derby? A: Authorized
Q: Who played the father, Col. William Ludlow, in the 1994 film ‘Legends of the Fall’? A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: Who was the spouse of Queen Mary I of England? A: Philip II of Spain
Q: What is the Zodiac sign of someone born on 31st May? A: Gemini
Q: English singer/songwriter Stephen Nice, born 1951, is better known by what name? A: Steve Harley
Q: Sovereignty of the Liancourt Rocks is disputed between which two Asian countries? A: South Korea and Japan
Q: On which part of the body would a barrette be worn? A: Head
Q: Which is the largest city in Europe by population? A: London
Q: Which town in Wales has been the home of the Royal Mint since 1968? A: Llantrisant
Q: What is a female zebra called? A: Mare
Q: What is a line called that goes straight from the centre of a circle to the circumference? A: Radius
Q: ‘Ebony and ‘what’ is the title of a 1982 hit single by Paul McCartney and Stevie Wonder? A: Ivory
Q: In 2001, protester Craig Evans was arrested after throwing what at politician John Prescott? A: An egg
Q: Mount Etna is on which European island? A: Sicily
Q: How many wings does a bee have? A: Four
Q: The name of which city translates into English as ‘River of January’? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: The musical ‘West Side Story’ is based on which Shakespeare play? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: According to the Bible, whose wife was turned into a pillar of salt as soon as she looked back at Sodom? A: Lot’s wife
Q: What is the name of a butterfly and a punctuation mark? A: Comma
Q: Terry McCann and Arthur Daley are characters in which UK television series? A: Minder
Q: Whose 1988 autobiography is entitled ‘Moonwalk’? A: Michael Jackson
Q: How many dice are used in a standard game of ‘Craps’? A: Two
Q: Which character begins play in a standard game of Cluedo? A: Miss Scarlett
Q: What is the boiling point of water in degrees Farenheit? A: 212
Q: US Singer Bobby, Australian actor Bryan and British politician Gordon all share which surname? A: Brown
Q: What is the cube root of 27? A: 3
Q: Which animals are the subject of the novel ‘Watership Down’? A: Rabbits
Q: During which month of the year is the US PGA golf tournament held? A: August
Q: Which US television sitcom, starring Carroll O’Connor as Archie Bunker, debuted in January 1971? A: All In The Family
Q: In humans, Polyphagia is an excessive desire to do what? A: Eat
Q: The River Seine empties into which body of water? A: English Channel
Q: What type of creature is a Smooth Hound? A: Shark
Q: Who became Secretary General of the United Nations in January 1972? A: Kurt Waldheim
Q: The ‘Dinshaway Incident’ is the name given to a 1906 dispute between British military officers and the locals of which African country? A: Egypt
Q: The ‘Delta Works’ is a series of construction projects in which European country, to protect large areas of land from the sea? A: Netherlands
Q: James and Elizabeth are the children of which former British Prime Minister? A: John Major
Q: Chorophobia is the irrational fear of which activity? A: Dancing
Q: Which is the only US state to have only one syllable in its name? A: Maine
Q: What is the name of the little girl who appears in the UK television series ‘The Magic Roundabout’? A: Florence
Q: In ancient history, which Carthagian general beat the Romans at Cannae in 216 BC? A: Hannibal
Q: Edward Woodstock, The Black Prince, was the eldest son of which English monarch? A: King Edward III
Q: Which fashion designer opened his ‘Little Black Jacket’ photo exhibition in Paris in November 2012? A: Karl Lagerfeld
Q: Rappelling is another name for which activity/sport? A: Abseiling
Q: Which UK retail chain sells the ‘Florence and Fred’ range of clothing? A: Tesco
Q: Russian Olive is a north American term for which garden plant? A: Oleaster
Q: Baldwin I was crowned first king of where in 1100? A: Jerusalem
Q: Situated in Piccadilly, what is the name of London’s oldest bookshop? A: Hatchards
Q: What were the first names of English author H G Wells? A: Herbert George
Q: Who was the last British monarch of the House of Hanover? A: Queen Victoria
Q: The Caribbean island of Martinique is administered by which European country? A: France
Q: ‘The Best Young Player Award’ was introduced at the FIFA World Cup in which year? A: 2006
Q: Singers Janis Joplin and Cee Lo Green both released singles with which title? A: Cry Baby
Q: What is the boy in the Dreamworks film logo holding in his hand? A: Fishing rod
Q: Si is the symbol for which chemical element? A: Silicon
Q: The ‘English Riviera’ is in which county? A: Devon
Q: Protanopia is colour blindness resulting in insensitivity to which colour light? A: Red
Q: St Michael’s Mount is off the coast of which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: English monarch King John signed Magna Carta in which century? A: 13th Century
Q: Julian Casablancas is the lead singer in which US rock band? A: The Strokes
Q: Which British golf course is known as ‘The Home of Golf’? A: St Andrews
Q: In music, what is the name of a whole note which has the time value of two minims or four crotchets? A: Semibreve
Q: A Ryokan is a traditional inn in which country? A: Japan
Q: Gephyrophobia is the irrational fear of crossing what? A: Bridges
Q: How many letters are in the Hebrew alphabet? A: 22
Q: ‘What You See is What You Get’ is the autobiography of which British businessman? A: Alan Sugar
Q: British athlete Dai Green competes in which track event? A: Hurdles
Q: An eighth month ban on which Dire Straits song was lifted by Canadian radio in September 2011? A: Money For Nothing
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in March 1974? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which Mediterranean island was once known as Alashiya? A: Cyprus
Q: What is the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival? A: Palm d’Or
Q: The medical condition glaucoma affects which part of the body? A: Eye
Q: Hirudin is a naturally occurring peptide in the salivary glands of which creatures used in medicine? A: Leeches
Q: Which rugby union team play their home games at Salford City Stadium? A: Sale Sharks
Q: In the animal kingdom, what is the world’s largest land predator? A: Polar Bear
Q: Diablo, Jalpa, Urraco and Islero are all models made by which car manufacturer? A: Lamborghini
Q: Who played James Bond in the 1977 film ‘The Spy Who Loved Me’? A: Roger Moore
Q: Blunging, Fettling, Saggar and Wedging are all terms used in which craft? A: Pottery
Q: The Cowal Highland Gathering (the Cowal Games) are held every August in which Scottish town? A: Dunoon
Q: In which US state is Lower Lake? A: California
Q: ‘Triticum’ is the Latin name for which cereal crop? A: Wheat
Q: Jemima Goldsmith married which famous cricketer in 1995? A: Imran Khan
Q: Who composed the opera ‘The Marriage of Figaro’? A: Mozart
Q: What is the young of a shark called? A: Pup
Q: What is the surname of Eric in the animated television series ‘Stressed Eric’? A: Feeble
Q: In art, the Dada movement (Dadaism) originated in which European country during World War I? A: Switzerland
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Red Devils’? A: Manchester United
Q: Who was the first Polish Pope in history? A: Pope John Paul II
Q: The island of St Helena lies in which body of water? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: A sorel is which male animal in its third year? A: Fallow deer
Q: Drugs baron Franz Sanchez is a character in which 1989 James Bond film? A: Licence to Kill
Q: In Judaism, what is the name of the period of seven days of formal mourning for the dead, which begins immediately after the funeral? A: Shiva
Q: 18th Century philosopher, writer and composer Jean-Jacques Rousseau was born in which European city? A: Geneva
Q: Galle, Le Vernier, Lassell, Arago and Adams are all rings round which planet? A: Neptune
Q: ‘Ik hou van jou’ is Dutch for what? A: I love you
Q: The novels ‘The Tropic of Cancer’ and ‘The Tropic of Capricorn’ were written by which author? A: Henry Miller
Q: How many emirates make up the Untied Arab Emirates? A: Seven
Q: ‘The Adventure Home’ is the sequel to which 1993 film? A: Free Willy
Q: Baldy Mountain is the highest peak in which range of mountains in New Mexico? A: Cimarron Range
Q: Attributed to Julius Caesar, what does the phrase ‘Alea iacta est’ translate to in English? A: The die has been cast
Q: In which year was the first FA Cup Final played? A: 1872
Q: In August 1960 Chad, in Central Africa, became independent from which country? A: France
Q: Who plays Bob Barnes in the 2005 film ‘Syriana’? A: George Clooney
Q: Haw’s Syndrome is a common disease in which animal? A: Cat
Q: Who wrote the 1939 novel ‘The Grapes of Wrath’? A: John Steinbeck
Q: Sharm-el-Sheikh, Dahab and Taba are all resorts in which country? A: Egypt
Q: A pompano is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: What is the US state capital of South Carolina? A: Columbia
Q: What is the currency of Turkey? A: Turkish lira
Q: Sebastiano Carezo is credited with inventing which Spanish dance in 1780? A: The Bolero
Q: Who was the first US President to appear on colour television? A: Dwight D Eisenhower
Q: In 1963, in which country did operatic tenor Luciano Pavarotti make his first appearance outside Italy? A: Ireland
Q: What is the name of Mrs Pumphrey’s dog in the television series ‘All Creatures Great and Small’? A: Tricki-Woo
Q: Which video game series follows the adventures of Sackboy? A: LittleBigPlanet
Q: Which is the largest city in Canada by population? A: Toronto
Q: In June 1988, which British jockey was stripped of his OBE after he was jailed for tax evasion? A: Lester Piggott
Q: Which country hosted the 1988 Summer Olympic Games? A: South Korea
Q: Who succeeded Ronald Reagan as President of the US? A: George H W Bush
Q: In December 1989 which Romanian dictator and his wife were executed after being found guilty for crimes against humanity? A: Nicolae Ceausescu
Q: Which classic arcade game was released in Japan on 22nd May 1980? A: Pac-Man
Q: English musician Ian Curtis, who died on 18th May 1980, was best known as lead singer of which post-punk band? A: Joy Division
Q: In November 1986, who won their first world boxing title by defeating Trevor Berbick in Las Vegas? A: Mike Tyson
Q: What was the name of the 13 year old who achieved a Starred First in Mathematics at Oxford University in 1985, becoming the youngest British person ever to gain a First Class degree? A: Ruth Lawrence
Q: Who was elected leader of the British Social Democratic Party in July 1982? A: Roy Jenkins
Q: On 1st March 1981, which Provisional Irish Republican Army member began a hunger strike for political status in Long Kesh prison, resulting in his death on May 5th? A: Bobby Sands
Q: Which British comedian suffered a heart attack on live television, and soon after died, in April 1984? A: Tommy Cooper
Q: Which British pop group won the 1981 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Bucks Fizz
Q: Which former Gestapo boss was sentenced to life imprisonment in July 1987 for crimes against humanity during World War II A: Klaus Barbie
Q: Which London-based independent airline went bankrupt in February 1982, leaving 6,000 stranded passengers? A: Laker Airways
Q: Which former US pop singer was elected Mayor of Palm Springs, California, in April 1988? A: Sonny Bono
Q: How many people are in a curling team? A: Four
Q: A sea nettle is what type of creature? A: Jellyfish
Q: Which country hosted the 1988 Winter Olympics? A: Canada
Q: Which 1950’s UK television puppet’s catchphrase was ‘Aw, don’t embawass me!’? A: Lenny the Lion
Q: Which is the longest river in New Mexico, and runs through the entire length of the state? A: The Rio Grande
Q: ‘Good to the last drop’ is the advertising slogan for which brand of beverage? A: Maxwell House
Q: American criminal Albert Henry DeSalvo was better  known by what nickname in the 1960’s? A: The Boston Strangler
Q: How many nights are in the novel ‘Arabian Nights’? A: 1,001
Q: English singer/songwriter Paloma Faith was born with which surname? A: Blomfield
Q: American Falls, Bridal Veil Falls and Horseshoe Falls are all part of which waterfall? A: Niagara Falls
Q: The Welsh town of Aberystwyth lies on which bay? A: Cardigan Bay
Q: In which year did Prince Andrew marry Sarah Ferguson? A: 1986
Q: The ‘Goose Fair’ is held annually in which English city? A: Nottingham
Q: Which circle of latitude on the Earth is also known as the Northern Tropic? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: English statesman Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex, was executed during the reign of which English monarch? A: King Henry VIII
Q: Dipsophobia is the irrational fear of doing what? A: Drinking alcohol
Q: The world’s first vacuum bottling factory was opened in which European country in 1804? A: France
Q: The AK Parti (the Justice and Development Party) is a political party in which country? A: Turkey
Q: In which year was the Bank of England entirely nationalised? A: 1946
Q: Apart from English, what is the official language of Pakistan? A: Urdu
Q: Which computer company was founded in 1983 as Control Video Corporation? A: AOL
Q: The Philippines were named after which king of Spain? A: King Philip II
Q: Who made his ‘I Am Prepared to Die’ speech in 1964 at the opening of the Rivonia Trial in South Africa? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: In March 1975, which silent movie star was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: In the late 19th Century, who brought a libel action against the Marquess of Queensbury who won a counterclaim? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: How many ribs does a human have? A: 24
Q: US singer/songwriter Richard Wayne Penniman is better known by what name? A: Little Richard
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who was unable to be put together again by all the kings men? A: Humpty Dumpty
Q: Which country’s football team was runner up in the 1970 FIFA World Cup? A: Italy
Q: Which actress played ‘Bond girl’ Honey Ryder? A: Ursula Andress
Q: Which year saw the first ‘space tourist’ Dennis Tito, who paid a reported 20 million dollars to board the International Space Station? A: 2001
Q: What is the national plant of Ireland? A: Shamrock
Q: What is the name of the male character in French pantomime who usually wears a loose white costume and a pointed hat and has a sad white-painted face? A: Pierrot
Q: Swedish actress Greta Gustafsson was better known by what name? A: Greta Garbo
Q: Swiss National Day is celebrated during which month of the year? A: August
Q: Sam Walton founded which famous US retail chain in 1962? A: Walmart
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Knock at the door’ is the nickname of which number? A: Four
Q: Who was the only US President not to be elected to office? A: Gerald Ford
Q: The liqueur creme de cassis is made with which fruit? A: Blackcurrants
Q: Which English author wrote the 1928 novel ‘Orlando: A Biography’? A: Virginia Woolf
Q: Which 1956 film starring Burt Lancaster was shot in Paris, including at the Cirque d’hiver? A: Trapeze
Q: In which year was the Oxford English Dictionary first published in ten volumes? A: 1928
Q: First broadcast in the UK 1958, what is the world’s longest running children’s television programme? A: Blue Peter
Q: Quentin Tarantino and George Clooney play brothers Seth and Richard Gecko in which 1996 film? A: From Dusk Till Dawn
Q: King John of England was the youngest son of which English monarch? A: King Henry II
Q: Pinkie, Cubitt and Ida Arnold are all characters in which Graham Green novel? A: Brighton Rock
Q: Which British island group was hit by an egg shortage in February 2012? A: Falkland Islands
Q: How many suicides are recorded in the Bible? A: Seven
Q: In which country was actor Yul Brynner born? A: Russia
Q: Egyptian Naguib Mahfouz was the first Arabic language writer to win which Nobel Prize? A: Literature
Q: Which Looney Tunes cartoon character made their debut in April 1937? A: Daffy Duck
Q: In 1987, which airline was said to have made a saving of 40,000 dollars by omitting an olive from each salad served in first class? A: American Airlines
Q: In humans, pericarditis affects which part of the body? A: Heart
Q: In the childrenâs fairy tale, for how many years did Sleeping Beauty sleep after she pricked her finger on a spinning wheel? A: 100 years
Q: What is the highest mountain in Australia? A: Mount Kosciuszko
Q: What colours are on the national flag of Thailand? A: Red, white, blue
Q: In May 1950, Celal Bayar became the third President of which European country? A: Turkey
Q: Who came to the British throne in January 1936? A: King Edward VIII
Q: The mounted hide of which race horse is displayed at the Melbourne Museum in Australia? A: Phar Lap
Q: A bust of which British Prime Minister was said to have been removed from the White House and taken to the British Embassy in Washington when Barack Obama took office? A: Winston Churchill
Q: In humans, steatopygia is a high degree of fat accumulation in and around which part of the body? A: Buttocks
Q: Which word can go  after Harbour, Quiz and Head to make three other words? A: Master
Q: Which word can go after Leg, Ball and Bath to make three other words? A: Room
Q: Which word can go before Pot, Cup and Spoon to make three other words? A: Tea
Q: Which word can go after Black, Hard and Star to make three other words? A: Board
Q: Which word can go before Out, Age and Man to make three other words? A: Line
Q: Which word can go before Power, Hole and Date to make three other words? A: Man
Q: Which word can go before Box, Press and Head to make three other words? A: Letter
Q: Which word can go after Cast, Throw and Stow to make three other words? A: Away
Q: Which word can go after King, Hair and Nine to make three other words? A: Pin
Q: Which word can go before Star, Axe and Cat to make three other words? A: Pole
Q: Which word can go before Plant, Guest and Boat to make three other words? A: House
Q: Which word can go after Door, Side and Dub to make three other words? A: Step
Q: Which word can go before Ache, Mug and Pick to make three other words? A: Tooth
Q: Which word can go before Force, Day and Load to make three other words? A: Work
Q: Which chemical element is represented by ‘Se’? A: Selenium
Q: In 1773, who became the first known person to cross the Antarctic Circle? A: Captain James Cook
Q: Which French football team won the 1993 European Cup? A: Marseille
Q: If a creature is lapidicolous it lives under what? A: Stones
Q: How wide, in metres, is an Olympic swimming pool? A: 25 metres
Q: Which month in 1985 saw the Live Aid concert, organised by Bob Geldof? A: July
Q: Who did the Green Bay Packers defeat in the first Super Bowl in 1967? A: Kansas City Chiefs
Q: What make and model car did Steve McQueen drive in a car chase through the streets of San Francisco in the film Bullitt? A: Ford Mustang
Q: Rhagfyr is Welsh for which month of the year? A: December
Q: Who plays The Joker in the 2008 film ‘The Dark Knight’? A: Heath Ledger
Q: Chinaman, Flipper and Leg-Break are all terms used in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: How many stations are on the London Underground Central Line? A: 49
Q: Which cheese is known as ‘The King of English Cheeses’? A: Stilton
Q: Actor and singer David Essex played Jesus Christ in which 1970’s London stage musical in? A: Godspell
Q: What colour is the sofa on BBC television Breakfast Show? A: Red
Q: Mark Zuckerberg and Eduardo Savarin are two of the creators of which social networking service, launched in February 2004? A: Facebook
Q: In which US city is was the first skyscraper said to have been built in 1885? A: Chicago
Q: In which country is Dal Lake? A: India
Q: Michelle Pfeiffer plays teacher LouAnne Johnson in which 1995 film? A: Dangerous Minds
Q: In humans, the right lung is divided into how many lobes? A: Three
Q: Which English rugby union team play their home games at The Recreation Ground? A: Bath
Q: What flavour is the liqueur Creme de Noyaux? A: Almond
Q: The medical condition ‘Gingivitis’ affects which part of the body? A: Gums
Q: Actor Pierce Brosnan made his screen  debut in which British gangster film? A: The Long Good Friday
Q: What did English naturalist Charles Darwin study at Edinburgh University? A: Medicine
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in June 1935? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: The Dukes of Beaufort are associated with which sport? A: Badminton
Q: Who was the only British Prime Minister to receive a Nobel Prize for Literature? A: Winston Churchill
Q: In which UK city is the television series ‘Hollyoaks’ set? A: Chester
Q: Jentacular relates to which meal of the day? A: Breakfast
Q: Which German-based group released a 1978 album entitled ‘Nightflight to Venus’? A: Boney M
Q: A ‘Granthi’ is the keeper and reader of the scriptures in which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: In August 1960, The Beatles began a residency in the Indra Club in which European city? A: Hamburg
Q: Who became the last state President of apartheid South Africa in August 1989? A: F W de Klerk
Q: In medicine, what is the rare syndrome in children, characterised by physical symptoms suggestive of premature old age? A: Progeria
Q: What is the name of the teletext information service started by the BBC in September 1974? A: Ceefax
Q: What type of creature is a capelin? A: Fish
Q: What was former US President Richard Nixon’s religion? A: Quaker
Q: Auskerry, Burray and Cava are part of which Scottish island group? A: Orkney Islands
Q: Puck Bay lies off the shore of which European country? A: Poland
Q: Rikki-Tikki-Tavi is the creation of which author? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: What was the nickname of American Civil War General Thomas Jackson? A: Stonewall Jackson
Q: What number of points come after 15 in a game of tennis? A: 30
Q: What is the English name of the American game of checkers? A: Draughts
Q: In the NATO Phonetic Alphabet, what word represents the letter ‘U’? A: Uniform
Q: In 1968, what animal was depicted as the first mascot of the Summer Olympic Games? A: Jaguar
Q: Which Afro-Caribbean religion is also known as ‘The Rule of Osha’? A: Santeria
Q: What type of creature is a remora? A: Fish
Q: Who was President of France from 1969 to 1974? A: Georges Pompidou
Q: The Macroplaze (or La Gran Plaza), one of the largest plazas in the world, is located in which Mexican city? A: Monterrey
Q: Nyctophobia is the extreme fear of what? A: Night or darkness
Q: How many English kings feature in the titles of Shakespeare plays? A: Eight
Q: Which English monarch created the National Debt? A: King William III
Q: Which was the first state in the US to ban smoking in public places? A: California
Q: Roberto Di Matteo was sacked as manager of which English football club in November 2012? A: Chelsea FC
Q: What is the name of the world’s first test-tube baby, born on 25th July 1978 in Manchester, England? A: Louise Joy Brown
Q: Who plays the title role in the US television series ‘Buffy the Vampire Slayer’? A: Sarah Michelle Gellar
Q: In 2012, which film director became the first solo diver to reach the bottom of the Mariana Trench in a submarine? A: James Cameron
Q: The Nanpu Bridge is in which Chinese city? A: Shanghai
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies between 15 and 17? A: 2
Q: What was actress Rita Hayworth’s last film? A: The Wrath of God
Q: The second full moon occurring within a calendar month is known as a ‘what’ Moon? A: Blue Moon
Q: Which explorer took the three ships, Nina, Pinta and Santa Maria on his journey to the New World? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: Cheeser, Six-er and Laggies are all terms used in which children’s game? A: Conkers
Q: What is the name of the fairy in the play ‘Peter Pan’ by J M Barrie? A: Tinker Bell
Q: What type of drink is claret? A: Wine
Q: The ‘Turbo Terrific’ is driven by which fictional character in the television cartoon series Wacky Races? A: Peter Perfect
Q: How many compartments does a cow’s stomach have? A: Four
Q: In humans, what is the name of the front cutting teeth? A: Incisors
Q: What is the name of the man in the 1969 5th Dimension hit single ‘Wedding Bell Blues’? A: Bill
Q: Which King of England was known as ‘The Unready’? A: Ethelred II
Q: Which British singer/musician released a 2012 album entitled ‘Kisses on the Bottom’? A: Paul McCartney
Q: What is the longest river in North America? A: Missouri River
Q: What is the name of the daughter of cartoon character Fred Flintstone? A: Pebbles
Q: What is the highest prime number between 1 and 100? A: 97
Q: Which English beer is known as ‘Newkie Brown’? A: Newcastle Brown Ale
Q: How many grams in half a kilo? A: 500
Q: What colour is the skin of a courgette? A: Green
Q: What was the first name of the sister of British monarch Queen Elizabeth II? A: Margaret
Q: Gotham City is associated with which fictional superhero? A: Batman
Q: A sitatunga is what type of animal? A: Antelope
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Cotidiana vilescunt’ translate to in English? A: Familiarity breeds contempt
Q: In which year did singer Elvis Presley marry Priscilla Beaulieu? A: 1967
Q: Panama disease affects which food crop? A: Bananas
Q: Which flower is also known as the ‘Lent Lily’? A: Narcissus (wild daffodil)
Q: Which English poet declined the post of Poet Laureate in 1757? A: Thomas Gray
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘Macbeth’ who kills Macbeth? A: Macduff
Q: David Wilkie, Karl Gunner Larson and Michael Phelps are all associated with which sport? A: Swimming
Q: What is the most frequently rolled number with two standard dice? A: Seven
Q: ‘The Fenn Street Gang’ was a spin-off from which British television series? A: Please Sir
Q: Which writer said ‘Bigamy is having one wife too many. Monogamy is the same’? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which Scottish football team is nicknamed ‘The Hoops’? A: Celtic
Q: Which Briton won three Gold Olympic medals in the 2008 Summer Olympics? A: Chris Hoy
Q: In which novel does fictional private eye Philip Marlowe first appear? A: The Big Sleep
Q: Who wrote the 1856 novel ‘Madame Bovary’? A: Gustave Flaubert
Q: A sauger is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: In humans, episcleritis affects which part of the body? A: Eye
Q: In which year did seatbelt use for drivers become mandatory in the UK? A: 1983
Q: Bouche is French for which part of the body? A: Mouth
Q: The Makapansgat Caves are in which African country? A: South Africa
Q: Raleigh is the capital of which American state? A: North Carolina
Q: In which city is the 1997 film ‘The Full Monty’ set? A: Sheffield
Q: What was the name of the Tropical Storm, that turned into a hurricane, which hit the US Gulf Coast in August 2012? A: Isaac
Q: In the David Hockney painting ‘Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy’ what is Percy? A: A cat
Q: What is the official language of Iran? A: Persian
Q: The sculpture of the ‘Winged Figure’ by Barbara Hepworth is on the side of which department store in London’s Oxford Street? A: John Lewis
Q: Everything Changes, Beautiful World and Circus are all albums released by which British band? A: Take That
Q: If you are ‘Tripping the Light Fantastic’ what are you doing? A: Dancing
Q: An ‘Agelast’ is a person who never does what? A: Laugh
Q: In which year did Japan join the United Nations? A: 1956
Q: Which US President officially opened the Empire State Building in New York? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: What was the name of the first human spaceflight to land on the moon, in July 1969? A: Apollo 11
Q: Pollo is Italian for which bird? A: Chicken
Q: Benjamin Disraeli was British Prime Minister during the reign of which monarch? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Amarapura was the former capital of which country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: In computing, what is the device which is plugged into a computer which serves as an adapter or to enable the use of certain software? A: Dongle
Q: What is the largest internal human organ? A: Liver
Q: What is the title of the 1987 film in which Cher plays a widow who falls in love with the brother, played by Nicholas Cage, of her husband-to-be? A: Moonstruck
Q: A new Holy Thorn Tree was planted in 2012 in which Somerset town, to replace the one damaged by vandals in 2010? A: Glastonbury
Q: The first passenger fare-paying railway service was established in which European country in 1807? A: Wales
Q: Who played Mike Flaherty, the deputy mayor of New York, in the US television series ‘Spin City’? A: Michael J Fox
Q: The Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) was formed in which century? A: 18th Century
Q: Pan American World Airlines offered the first commercially scheduled Boeing 747 service from John F Kennedy Airport to which British airport in 1970? A: London Heathrow Airport
Q: What is the title of the first number one hit released by the Tamla Motown record label? A: Please Mr Postman
Q: Which country’s football team did Germany beat in the 2002 FIFA World Cup semi-final? A: South Korea
Q: A Stableford is a scoring system in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Trypanophobia is the irrational fear of which medical procedure? A: Injection
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Da Vinci Code’? A: Dan Brown
Q: A diamondback is what type of creature? A: Snake
Q: Kwame Nkrumah became the first President of which country in 1960? A: Ghana
Q: In which year did the first car-carrying hovercraft cross the English Channel? A: 1968
Q: What is the middle name of cartoon character Daffy Duck? A: Dumas
Q: ‘Spondulicks’ is British slang for what? A: Money
Q: Spode pottery is made in which European country? A: England
Q: Which late US singer was known as ‘The Caruso of Rock’? A: Roy Orbison
Q: Beth Tweddle has represented Britain in which sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: Which London theatre has a thatched roof? A: Globe Theatre
Q: What is the first name of Arkwright, played by Ronnie Barker in the UK television series ‘Open All Hours’? A: Albert
Q: Before he became US President, Barack Obama was senator of which state? A: Illinois
Q: Arthur Upmore, Ernie Bragg and Major Leafe are all characters in which ‘Carry On’ film? A: Carry On Behind
Q: In Greek mythology, Diomedes is the owner of which man-eating animals? A: Horses
Q: The English band Oasis is from which city? A: Manchester
Q: US actor Ed Harris directed and starred in which 2000 film about an American artist? A: Pollock
Q: Bovidae Ovis is the scientific name for which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Stink 182 is a tribute band to which band? A: Blink 182
Q: What is the title of the 1985 film sequel to ‘Romancing the Stone’ starring Michael Douglas? A: The Jewel of the Nile
Q: Which English football club play their home games at the Reebok Stadium? A: Bolton Wanderers FC
Q: The Copo and the Laguna Blanco National Parks are in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: What is the dot over a lower case ‘i’ called? A: Tittle
Q: In the game of Shove Ha’penny, what is the term for placing three coins in a ‘Bed’ in a single go? A: Sergeant
Q: Who directed the 1960 film ‘Spartacus’? A: Stanley Kubrick
Q: In January 1977, which French President officially opened the Pompidou Centre in Paris? A: Valery Giscard d’Estaing
Q: The colour sepia is named after the pigment from the ink sac of which marine creature? A: Cuttlefish
Q: A gastrectomy is the removal of which part of the human body? A: Stomach
Q: The US Ramstein Air Base is in which European country? A: Germany
Q: What are the names of the leather boxes, sometimes called phylacteries, worn by orthodox Jewish men on their head and arm during weekday morning prayers? A: Tefillin
Q: In the Scottish nursery rhyme who runs through the town in his nightgown? A: Wee Willie Winkie
Q: Who married Captain Mark Phillips at Westminster Abbey in November 1973? A: Princess Anne
Q: Pitkin County is in which US state? A: Colorado
Q: Lady Day (The Feast of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin) falls in which month of the year? A: March
Q: Which US cartoon series first appeared on The Tracey Ullman Show in April 1987? A: The Simpsons
Q: Swiss author Johanna Spyri wrote which famous children’s book about a young orphan girl in her grandfather’s care? A: Heidi
Q: Which British Merseybeat singer was born William Howard Ashton in 1943? A: Billy J Kramer
Q: Which chemical compound has the formula H2S? A: Hydrogen Sulphide
Q: In the board game Monopoly, what is the highest denomination banknote in ‘pounds’ sterling? A: 500
Q: Since 1992, what type of boat is the logo of aftershave ‘Old Spice’? A: Yacht
Q: Who wrote the 1924 musical composition ‘Rhapsody in Blue’? A: George Gershwin
Q: Which UK supermarket chain has an in-store section called ‘Market Street’? A: Morrisons
Q: What is the capital of The Isle of man? A: Douglas
Q: Zorro is Spanish for which animal? A: Fox
Q: How many lanes does an Olympic swimming pool have? A: Ten
Q: In 2003, who became the oldest woman to win FHM’s ‘Sexiest Woman in the World ‘ award? A: Halle Berry
Q: The Calcutta Cup is played for in which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: In which year was Scotland united with England by the Acts of Union? A: 1707
Q: George Clooney, Michael Keaton and Val Kilmer have all played which fictional character on film? A: Batman
Q: Which English comedian was born Frederick Fowell in 1943? A: Freddie Starr
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘The Merchant of Venice’, who is Jessica’s father? A: Shylock
Q: Which modern-day country was formerly known as British Honuduras? A: Belize
Q: The Abu Simbel temples are in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: Which month of the year was the ninth month of the Roman calendar? A: November
Q: A part of which British motorway was closed for a week in July 2012 after a crack was found in the Boston Manor viaduct? A: M4
Q: In the BBC television series Dr Who, the villain Davros was from which fictional planet? A: Skaro
Q: In which year was the Berlin International Film Festival first held? A: 1951
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books, whose pets were named Fang and Fluffy? A: Rubeus Hagrid
Q: Who played Pussy Galore in the 1964 James Bond film ‘Goldfinger’? A: Honor Blackman
Q: Which island in the US was known as Oyster Island? A: Ellis Island
Q: Norwegian Omelette is another name for which dessert? A: Baked Alaska
Q: What type of creature is a fody? A: Bird
Q: In describing which city, author Tom Wolfe said ‘Culture just seems to be in the air, like part of the weather’? A: New York
Q: The 1703 ‘Methuen Treaty’ was a military and commercial treaty between Britain and which other European country? A: Portugal
Q: The ‘Avesta’ is the book of sacred writings in which religion? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: Enero is Spanish for which month of the year? A: January
Q: Who played the title roles in the 1977 film ‘Fun With Dick and Jane’? A: George Segal and Jane Fonda
Q: Central Park is in which borough of New York City? A: Manhattan
Q: Who was voted in as Mayor of London in May 2012? A: Boris Johnson
Q: Who wrote, produced and directed the 2009 film ‘Avatar’? A: James Cameron
Q: What was the maiden name the mother of US astronaut Buzz Aldrin? A: Moon
Q: Great Leighs Race Course, which opened in 2007, is in which English county? A: Essex
Q: In 1973, which horse set new records at the US Kentucky Derby and a new world record at the Belmont Stakes? A: Secretariat
Q: Which jockey won seven races on Champions Day at Ascot in September 1996? A: Frankie Dettori
Q: In which year was the tax on betting abolished in the Britain? A: 2001
Q: Famous racehorse Seabiscuit was the grandson of which racehorse? A: Man O’War
Q: In the Northern Hemisphere on which date do all racehorses celebrate their birthday? A: January 1st
Q: In the Southern Hemisphere on which date do all racehorses celebrate their birthday? A: August 1st
Q: The English Grand National Steeplechase is held annually at which race course? A: Aintree
Q: What is the name of the two-wheeled cart pulled by horses in harness races? A: Sulky
Q: Which Australian horse race is marketed as ‘The race that stops a nation’? A: The Melbourne Cup
Q: In 1983, who became the first woman to train an English Grand National winner? A: Jenny Pitman
Q: Which English horse race is sometimes referred to as the ‘Blue Ribband’ of the turf? A: Epsom Derby
Q: What were the first names of American novelist J D Salinger? A: Jerome David
Q: 18th Century anatomist Anna Manzolini was an expert at making anatomical models from which material? A: Wax
Q: How many red stripes are there on the national flag of Thailand? A: Two
Q: In Januaury 1970, Diana Ross and the Supremes performed their farewell concert together at which Las Vegas hotel? A: Frontier Hotel
Q: Which fish are traditionally used to make Stargazy pie? A: Pilchards
Q: Alliumphobia is the fear of which herb? A: Garlic
Q: Which was the first major battle of the English Civil War, that took place in October 1642? A: Battle of Edge Hill
Q: In medicine, stomatitis affects which part of the body? A: Mouth
Q: Which English Test Cricket captain retired from professional cricket in August 2012? A: Andrew Strauss
Q: Which is the youngest book in the New Testament of The Bible? A: Book of Revelations
Q: Cheveux is French for which part of the body? A: Hair
Q: What is the title of English author Jane Austen’s first published novel? A: Sense and Sensibility
Q: Who played British television detective Jim Taggart? A: Mark McManus
Q: Which London football club is the subject of the novel ‘Fever Pitch’ by Nick Hornby? A: Arsenal FC
Q: In mythology, who pulled the thorn from the Lion’s paw? A: Androcles
Q: Which British X-Factor judge released a 2012 single entitled ‘Young’? A: Tulisa
Q: The Hawaiian phrase ‘Aloha kakahiaka’ translates to what in English? A: Good morning
Q: Which was the first country to win the Six Nations Rugby Union Championship? A: England
Q: Who was the first person to report seeing craters on the moon using a telescope? A: Galileo
Q: In which year did British monarch Queen Victoria celebrate her Diamond Jubilee? A: 1897
Q: American millionaire Leonard Jerome was the grandfather of which British Prime Minister? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Which line on the London Underground rail system has the longest distance between two stations? A: Metropolitan Line
Q: Which bird has the poetic name ‘Halycon’? A: Kingfisher
Q: How many spaces does a standard ‘Connect Four’ game have? A: 42
Q: Brownsea Island is off the coast of which English county? A: Dorset
Q: What is the title of the Millais painting used to advertise Pears Soap? A: Bubbles
Q: El Prat Airport serves which European city? A: Barcelona
Q: Which US film director and actor said he wanted to ‘Achieve immortality through not dying’? A: Woody Allen
Q: Dorothea Jordan was the mistress of which future British monarch? A: William IV
Q: What was the the first name of 17th Century artist van Dyck? A: Anthony
Q: A splat is a single thin, flat piece of wood, often ornamental, which forms part of which piece of furniture? A: Chair
Q: ‘Spud’ is slang for which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: What is the fruit of a rose bush called? A: (Rose) Hip
Q: Tom Church’s statue ‘Freedom’, in Stirling, Scotland, was inspired by which 1995 film? A: Braveheart
Q: Caroline, John and Patrick were the children of which US President? A: John F Kennedy
Q: Late actor Larry Hagman played which character in the US television series ‘Dallas’? A: J R Ewing
Q: ‘The Rumble in the ‘what’ took place between boxers George Foreman and Muhammad Ali on 30th October 1974? A: Jungle
Q: Which late actor narrated the British children’s television programme ‘Willo the Wisp’? A: Kenneth Williams
Q: On which part of the body would a shako be worn? A: Head
Q: A gormandizer is a person who does what to excess? A: Eat
Q: If something is ‘preocular’ it is situated in front of which part of the body? A: Eye
Q: Scottish playwright Sharman Macdonald is the mother of which famous English actress? A: Keira Knightly
Q: Who wrote the 1890 play ‘Hedda Gabler’? A: Henrik Ibsen
Q: Which late British Punk rocker had a city square named after him in Grenada, Spain? A: Joe Strummer
Q: What is the name of the road which runs through the British Grand National race course at Aintree? A: Melling Road
Q: Who plays alcoholic John Hancock in the 2008 film ‘Hancock’? A: Will Smith
Q: ‘Alcea rosea’ is the Latin name for which common garden flower? A: Hollyhock
Q: ‘The Valley of the ‘what’ is a 1966 novel by US author Jacqueline Susann? A: Dolls
Q: Jess Wright, Chloe Sims, Lauren Pope and James Argent all appear in which British Television reality show? A: The Only Way Is Essex
Q: Bryndza cheese is made from the milk of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: In the British army, which rank is between Lieutenant and Major? A: Captain
Q: Euchre, Pinochle and Skat are all games played with what? A: Cards
Q: The Gordon Bennett Cup, first awarded in 1906, is a prize in which sport? A: Gas Ballooning
Q: On a standard dartboard, what number lies between 8 and 14? A: 11
Q: The ‘Wolf Moon’ is the name of the full moon which occurs during which month of the year? A: January
Q: In which century was the office of Black Rod created for the House of Lords in England? A: 14th Century
Q: The name of which animal derives from the Native American word for ‘He who kills with one leap’? A: Jaguar
Q: ‘Rock Paper Scissors’ is the title of an exhibition which opened in London’s Waddington Custot Galleries in November 2012 in celebration of the 80th birthday of which British artist? A: Sir Peter Blake
Q: Who wrote the 1932 novel ‘Tobacco Road’? A: Erskine Caldwell
Q: In which year was drug testing first introduced in the Summer Olympic Games? A: 1968
Q: Who became British Prime Minister on November 1990? A: John Major
Q: Which country is the only one to hold a Grand Slam Tennis Tournament on clay courts? A: France
Q: Jamaica Inn is in which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: What is a female hedgehog called? A: Sow
Q: What breed of dog is known as a ‘Sausage dog’? A: Dachshund
Q: Who was the first centrefold in the December 1953 issue of Playboy magazine? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: US singer Tony Christie sang ‘Is This the Way to – ‘where’ in 1971? A: Amarillo
Q: During which month of the year are the US Presidential elections held? A: November
Q: What is the name of a Telly Tubby and an Italian river? A: Po
Q: What was the most common password used online in 2012? A: Password
Q: What colour shirts did the Italian Fascists wear under the leadership of Benito Mussolini? A: Black
Q: Pepe le Pew is what type of cartoon animal? A: Skunk
Q: Which theatre opened in Norfolk Street, Sheffield, England in 1971? A: Crucible Theatre
Q: Which US city was named after St Francis of Assisi? A: San Francisco
Q: What was the name of the backing group of British singer Gerry Marsden? A: The Pacemakers
Q: Which bird lays the largest eggs? A: Ostrich
Q: How many points are scored for a dropped goal in rugby union? A: Three
Q: Who wrote the 1817 novel ‘Northanger Abbey’? A: Jane austen
Q: ‘Bertha and Bernie’ is a 1961 painting by which British artist? A: David Hockney
Q: Banjul is the capital of which African country? A: Gambia
Q: In which US city does Macaulay Culkin end up at Christmas time in Home Alone 2? A: New York
Q: The ‘Althing’ is the national parliament of which country? A: Iceland
Q: Which British group were banned from performing in the US for four years in the 1960’s? A: The Kinks
Q: How many people ride each elephant in the game of Elephant Polo? A: Two
Q: Sheppey and Canvey are islands in which English river estuary? A: River Thames
Q: Conglomerations of frozen ice crystals which fall through the Earth’s atmosphere are commonly known as what? A: Snowflakes
Q: Bucket, Poison Ivy, Cincinnati and Pumpkin are all terms used in which sport/game? A: Ten-pin bowling
Q: Juan Velasco Alvarado became President of the Revolutionary Government in October 1968 in which south American country? A: Peru
Q: Celine Dion won the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest for which country? A: Switzerland
Q: What is a score of 40-all otherwise known as in the game of tennis? A: Deuce
Q: Footballer Mario Balotelli joined which English football club in 2010? A: Manchester City
Q: In the human body, which teeth are known as the ‘cutting teeth’? A: Incisors
Q: In which country is the 2008 film ‘The Hurt Locker’ set? A: Iraq
Q: Holly Valance and Jason Donovan competed in which 2011 UK television show? A: Strictly Come Dancing
Q: Which Chicago building was formerly known as the Sears Tower? A: The Willis Tower
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed The Hornets? A: Watford FC
Q: Which planet in our solar system has a white cloud pattern in its atmosphere nicknamed ‘Scooter’? A: Neptune
Q: ‘Stone Cold Sober’ is the 2009 debut single of which English singer/songwriter? A: Paloma Faith
Q: Scapa Flow is a body of water in which Scottish island group? A: Orkney Islands
Q: What is the name of the alley in which cartoon character Top Cat lives? A: Hoagy’s Alley
Q: The world’s first nuclear bomb was detonated in 1945 in which US state? A: New Mexico
Q: US rock musician Carmine Appice is famous for playing which instrument? A: Drums
Q: A scratchplate is a plate usually attached to which musical instrument? A: Guitar
Q: Who served only 119 days as British Prime Minister in 1827, before dying of pneumonia? A: George Canning
Q: Which British actor was the recipient of the 2012 Bafta for ‘Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema’? A: John Hurt
Q: What is the basic currency of Laos? A: Kip
Q: In mathematics, how many sides does a rhombus have? A: Four
Q: Which Nazi war criminal was officially charged with war crimes in February 1983? A: Klaus Barbie
Q: Mungo National Park is in which Australian state? A: New South Wales
Q: In which 2001 film does Robert Redford play a court-martialled Lieutenant General who’s sent to jail? A: The Last Castle
Q: Which Japanese car manufacturer has a logo which features a silver ‘H’ inside a rectangle? A: Honda
Q: The 1914 poem ‘The Soldier’ was written by which English poet? A: Rupert Brooke
Q: The oil tanker Exxon Valdes ran aground off which US state in 1989? A: Alaska
Q: In the game of Bingo, ‘Man alive’ is the nickname of which number? A: 5
Q: Independence Day is celebrated in Panama during which month of the year? A: November
Q: Which English actor/singer was born Michael Dumble-Smith in 1942? A: Michael Crawford
Q: What is the title of the fourth ‘Dirty Harry’ film, starring and directed by Clint Eastwood? A: Sudden Impact
Q: Who defeated Edward Heath in 1975 for the leadership of the British Conservative Party? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Which political leader married Austrian Archduchess Marie-Louise in 1810? A: Napoleon I
Q: In humans, Ritter disease affects which part of the body? A: Skin
Q: Which French philosopher and mathematician has been dubbed ‘The Father of Modern Philosophy’? A: Rene Descartes
Q: Xyrophobia is the irrational fear of which grooming items? A: Razors
Q: US film and television actor Harvey Lee Yeary is better known by what name? A: Lee Majors
Q: Who was the closing act at the 1970 Isle of Wight Festival? A: Richie Havens
Q: Getulio Vargas served as President of which South American country for 15 years from 1930? A: Brazil
Q: ‘The Road to ‘where’ is the fifth ‘Road’ film starring Bob Hope and Bing Crosby? A: Rio
Q: The United Arab Republic, which began in 1958 and ended in 1961, was a union of which two nations? A: Egypt and Syria
Q: On which part of the body would a tabi be worn? A: Foot
Q: In which country was late actor and comedian Sid James born? A: South Africa
Q: What is a slow stately dance, usually for couples,  in triple time called? A: Minuet
Q: What is the name of the eagle in the children’s television show ‘The Muppets’? A: Sam
Q: Harare is the capital of which African country? A: Zimbabwe
Q: Mescaline, a hallucinogenic compound, occurs naturally in several species of which plant? A: Cactus
Q: What is the first name of Welsh singer Duffy? A: Amie
Q: Who announced their resignation as leader of the British Labour Party in October 1980? A: James Callaghan
Q: Assamese cuisine originated in which country? A: India
Q: British actress Alison Steadman married which film director/writer in 1973? A: Mike Leigh
Q: Introduced in the 19th Century in Britain, what were Penny Black and Penny Red? A: Postage stamps
Q: ‘World in ‘what’ was a UK current affairs television programme which ran from 1963 to 1998? A: Action
Q: Late English actor Oliver Reed played Uncle Frank in which 1975 film? A: Tommy
Q: The Swiss pastry Carac is traditionally covered with which colour icing? A: Green
Q: The ‘Great Flag Debate’ took place in which country in 1964? A: Canada
Q: In January 1987, who became the first woman inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame? A: Aretha Franklin
Q: Ommetaphobia is the irrational fear of which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Which US stadium was nicknamed the ‘House that Ruth Built’? A: Yankee Stadium
Q: In a standard game of chess, how many queens does each player start with? A: One
Q: The songs ‘Shall We Dance’, ‘Getting to Know You’ and ‘I’ll Whistle a Happy Tune’ are all from which 1956 musical film? A: The King and I
Q: In the board game ‘Operation’, how many Doctor’s points are scored by successfully removing the Funny Bone (humerus)? A: 200
Q: Who was Vice-President to US President Jimmy Carter? A: Walter Mondale
Q: Which river separates New York City from New Jersey? A: The Hudson River
Q: Lunes is Spanish for which day of the week? A: Monday
Q: In January 1973, the pilot episode of which British television comedy series, the longest-running sitcom in the world, was broadcast? A: Last of the Summer Wine
Q: What is the main ingredient of a Foo Young dish? A: Eggs
Q: Which British writer coined the phrase ‘Youth is wasted on the young’? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: St Andrew’s Day, the patron saint of Scotland, falls in which month of the year? A: November
Q: A rambutan is what type of foodstuff? A: Fruit
Q: The marabou is what type of bird? A: Stork
Q: Albion is the oldest known name for which nation? A: Great Britain
Q: The song ‘Fashion for His Love’ by Lady Gaga is a tribute to which late fashion designer? A: Alexander McQueen
Q: What is the first name of fictional character ‘Smiley’, created by the author John Le Carre? A: George
Q: Which bird is on the national flag of Papua New Guinea? A: Bird of Paradise
Q: The Isle of Man lies in which body of water? A: Irish Sea
Q: Singer David Bowie teamed up with UK band Queen on which 1981 hit single? A: Under Pressure
Q: How many mythical creatures represent years in the Chinese Zodiac? A: One
Q: The asteroid belt lies roughly between which two planets in our solar system? A: Mars and Jupiter
Q: During which month in 1666 did the Great Fire of London rage for four days? A: September
Q: Who was billed as ‘Undefeated’ in a boxing match in December 2007 against Floyd Mayweather Jr? A: Ricky Hatton
Q: In the final Harry Potter novel, who becomes headmaster of Hogwarts School? A: Severus Snape
Q: What is the surname of Sam in the US television series ‘Cheers’? A: Malone
Q: How many stations are on the Glasgow subway rail system? A: 15
Q: Stermutation is the medical term for which involuntary action in humans? A: Sneezing
Q: A roughy is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: In 1921, Edith Cowan was the first woman elected to any Parliament in which country? A: Australia
Q: Mount Monaslu is in which South Asian country? A: Nepal
Q: Hyperemesis Gravidarum is severe what in females? A: ‘Morning’ sickness
Q: Which character does Antonio Banderos provide the voice for in the 2010 film ‘Shrek Forever’? A: Puss in Boots
Q: Which gas is used to make the bubbles in fizzy drinks? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: Juan Evo Morales Ayma became President of which South American country in 2006? A: Bolivia
Q: The Ngultrum is the basic currency of which Asian country? A: Bhutan
Q: ‘Ida May’ was the original title of which hit single by Chuck Berry? A: Maybellene
Q: In November 1966, which team defeated the New York Giants 72-41 in the highest-scoring game in NFL history? A: Washington Redskins
Q: Which British band released an 1993 album entitled ‘Walthamstow’? A: East 17
Q: In 1897, Theodor Herzl became the first President of the political form of which movement? A: Zionism
Q: Which is the only US state to begin with the letter ‘D’? A: Delaware
Q: Which Shakespeare character said ‘A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse’? A: King Richard III
Q: What is the name of a ghost or other supernatural being which is supposedly responsible for physical disturbances, such as creating disorder and noises? A: Poltergeist
Q: Ben Macdui is part of which European mountain range? A: Cairngorms
Q: Sherborne Castle is in which English county? A: Dorset
Q: Johnny Depp plays John Wilmot, Second Earl of Rochester, in which 2004 film? A: The Libertine
Q: Who was the first foreign coach of the England football squad? A: Sven Goran Eriksson
Q: Jack Nicholson plays the role of private detective Jake Gittes in which 1974 film? A: Chinatown
Q: In Greek mythology, who was given asses ears by Apollo for preferring, in a contest, the music of Pan to that of Apollo? A: King Midas
Q: Which plant has the Latin name Ribes Rubrum? A: Redcurrant
Q: Which business directory had the ‘Walking Fingers’ logo? A: Yellow Pages
Q: Which British rock band’s original line-up was Syd Barrett, Nick Mason, Roger Waters and Richard Wright? A: Pink Floyd
Q: What is the name of a surface weather condition in a snow-covered area in which no object casts a shadow, and only dark objects can be seen? A: White-out
Q: Which 2010 film stars Mila Kunis as Lily and Natalie Portman as Nina Sayers? A: Black Swan
Q: Which US bus company was founded in Minnesota in 1914? A: Greyhound (Lines Inc)
Q: Adam Levine is the lead singer of which US pop rock band? A: Maroon 5
Q: Which baby pram company, founded in 1877, provided the baby carriage to King George VI for Princess Elizabeth? A: Silver Cross
Q: What was the maiden name of Jemima, ex-wife of cricketer Imran Khan? A: Goldsmith
Q: Which plant, used as a herb, is also known as barbed-wire grass? A: Lemongrass
Q: What is the title of the 1984 film starring singer Prince as The Kid? A: Purple Rain
Q: The original motto of which organisation was ‘Amidst War, Charity’? A: Red Cross
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Pt? A: Platinum
Q: Which ancient European period came before the Iron Age? A: Bronze Age
Q: What is the name of a person who forges and shapes iron with an anvil and hammer? A: Blacksmith
Q: What is the name of the unofficial accolade given to passenger liners crossing the Atlantic Ocean in regular service with the record highest speed? A: The Blue Riband
Q: Richard Attenborough played which gang member in the 1947 film ‘Brighton Rock’? A: Pinkie Brown
Q: Who won their first Formula 1 race at the 2012 Chinese Grand Prix? A: Nico Rosberg
Q: How old was playwright William Shakespeare when he died? A: 52
Q: The ‘Heliocentric Model’ is a theory that places which object as the centre of the Universe? A: The Sun
Q: What is the most traded commodity in the World? A: Crude oil
Q: Carl Fredricksen, Russell and Dug are all characters in which 2009 Disney film? A: Up
Q: Southern Indian Lake is in which country? A: Canada
Q: In which year did colour television begin broadcasting across Australia? A: 1975
Q: What type of creature is a Kentish Glory? A: Moth
Q: Great Train robber Ronald Biggs spent over 20 years in which country before returning to Britain? A: Brazil
Q: The Battle of the Little Bighorn was fought in which US state? A: Montana
Q: Which 1968 film starring Marianne Faithful was also known as ‘Naked Under Leather’? A: Girl on a Motorcycle
Q: ‘It’s the real thing’ was a 1970’s advertising slogan for which product? A: Coca Cola
Q: In the UK television quiz show ‘The Chase’ which chaser is is known as ‘The Beast’? A: Mark Labbett
Q: Who plays architect Doug Roberts in the 1974 film ‘Towering Inferno’? A: Paul Newman
Q: How many digits do frogs have on their back feet? A: Five
Q: During which month of the year is the Crufts Dog Show held in the UK? A: March
Q: In which year did Italy join the Six Nations (then Five Nations) Rugby Union Championship? A: 2000
Q: In Britain, who does the Best Man traditionally sit next to at a wedding reception? A: Groom’s mother
Q: The Banoffee Pie was invented at the Hungry Monk restaurant in which English county? A: East Sussex
Q: Who  played British fictional television detective Freddie Spender? A: Jimmy Nail
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest’? A: Ken Kesey
Q: Visage is French for which part of the body? A: Face
Q: ‘The Stolen Generations’ were children of which country who were taken from their families to be adopted or brought up by the state? A: Australia
Q: ‘The Entertainer’ by Scott Joplin is the theme tune for which 1973 film? A: The Sting
Q: Late actress Greta Garbo was born in which country? A: Sweden
Q: ‘The Long March’ took place in which country in 1934-35? A: China
Q: What is the title of the only published novel by J D Salinger? A: The Catcher in the Rye
Q: The River Danube empties into which body of water? A: Black Sea
Q: Which number is the title of singer Beyonce’s 2011 album? A: 4
Q: In which year was the Cannes Film Festival founded? A: 1946
Q: The first Wendy’s restaurant was opened in 1969 in which US state? A: Ohio
Q: Who won the 2003 BBC Sports Personality of the Year award? A: Jonny Wilkinson
Q: In 1497, John ‘who’ was said to have been the first European to have landed on mainland North America? A: Cabot
Q: With which song did Swedish pop group Abba win the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Waterloo
Q: In the game of English billiards, how many points does a cannon score? A: Two
Q: In which part of an animal is the cannon bone? A: Leg
Q: In medicine, a spirograph is an instrument used for recording what? A: Breathing movements
Q: What is the title of singer Celine Dion’s first UK number one hit single? A: Think Twice
Q: ‘Dog and Bone’ is Cockney rhyming slang for what? A: Phone
Q: Who wrote the trilogy of plays ‘The Norman Conquests’? A: Alan Ayckbourn
Q: Heteropoda davidbowie is the name given to which rare yellow creature in 2009? A: Spider
Q: The 2008 film ‘Valkyrie’ depicts the 1944 plot to assassinate which political figure? A: Adolph Hitler
Q: Tansu Ciller was the first woman Prime Minister of which European country? A: Turkey
Q: Which London Underground station has the longest escalator? A: Angel
Q: Elizabeth Anne Everest was the childhood nanny of which British Prime Minister? A: Winston Churchill
Q: In which country was the 2010 golf Ryder Cup competition held? A: Wales
Q: In 1999, who became the first female President of Switzerland? A: Ruth Dreifuss
Q: Who wrote the 1902 autobiography ‘The Story of My Life’? A: Helen Keller
Q: The Andaman Sea is known by what other name? A: Burma Sea
Q: The John Bunn Lifetime Achievement is an annual prize given in which sport? A: Basketball
Q: Dunlop cheese comes from which country? A: Scotland
Q: US investigative reporter and author Clifford Irving is best known for his 1971 hoax autobiography of which reclusive businessman? A: Howard Hughes
Q: Quercus is the Latin name for which tree? A: Oak
Q: Who plays the villainous Soviet agent Irina Spalko in the 2008 film ‘Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull’? A: Cate Blanchett
Q: The Watford Gap service station is on which British motorway? A: M1
Q: Dactylonomy is counting using what? A: Fingers
Q: The story of the New York gang ‘The Dead Rabbits’ is told in which 2002 film? A: Gangs of New York
Q: An Insulinoma is a tumour of which organ of the body? A: Pancreas
Q: In mythology, who is the Roman god of fire? A: Vulcan
Q: Who was the last person to leave the house in the first UK television show of Celebrity Big Brother in 2001? A: Jack Dee
Q: What is the first name of Halley, after who the famous comet is named? A: Edmond
Q: Completed in 1923, which famous steam locomotive was noted for the London to Edinburgh service? A: Flying Scotsman
Q: The Shinkansen, a network of high-speed railway lines in Japan is also known as the ‘what’ Train? A: Bullet
Q: The SNCF is the state-owned railway company in which country? A: France
Q: In May 1994, the Channel Tunnel was formally opened by Queen Elizabeth II and which French President? A: Francois Mitterrand
Q: In June 1883, the ‘Orient Express’ left Paris for which other European city? A: Vienna
Q: What was the name of the famous steam locomotive built by Robert Stephenson and Company in 1829? A: Rocket
Q: Wootten and Belpaire are types of ‘what’ found in steam locomotives? A: Firebox
Q: Of the four London stations on a Monopoly board, which was first to open? A: Fenchurch Street Station
Q: What is the name of the house to which the family move in the novel ‘The Railway Children’ by Edith Nesbit? A: Three Chimneys
Q: Grand Central Terminal (or Grand Central Station) is located at 42nd Street and which Avenue in Midtown Manhatten in New York? A: Park Avenue
Q: Who was the first British monarch to travel by train? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which US President nationalized American railways in 1917 under the Federal Possession and Control Act? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Which 1945 film, starring Celia Johnson and Trevor Howard, was shot mostly at Carnforth Station in Lancashire? A: Brief Encounter
Q: Who was named the Greatest Briton of All Time in a 2002 poll? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Which is the northernmost and westernmost station on the London Underground rail system? A: Chesham
Q: In which European city was Crimean War nurse Florence Nightingale born? A: Florence
Q: The St John’s River is the longest river in which US state? A: Florida
Q: Sir Edward Burgh was the first husband of which wife of English monarch King Henry VIII? A: Catherine Parr
Q: Nancy Astley and Kitty Butler are the main characters in which historical novel by Sarah Waters? A: Tipping the Velvet
Q: English architect Sir Horace Jones designed which London bridge? A: Tower Bridge
Q: A group of which birds is known as a ‘Charm’? A: Finches
Q: On which island is the former royal residence Osborne House, built for Queen Victoria and Prince Albert? A: Isle of Wight
Q: In the children’s fairytale, what was transformed into a carriage for Cinderella? A: Pumpkin
Q: How many pins are in the back row in ten-pin bowling? A: Four
Q: In which year was gender testing introduced in the Olympic Games? A: 1968
Q: The Aurora Borealis (Northern Lights) is named after the Roman goddess of what? A: The Dawn
Q: Brazo is Spanish for which part of the body? A: Arm
Q: ‘Forty Years On’ is the title of the first West End play by which British playwright? A: Alan Bennett
Q: Tracey Thorn was the lead singer in which English pop duo? A: Everything but the Girl
Q: A sculpin is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Which opera by Mozart is also known as ‘The Day of Madness’? A: The Marriage of Figaro
Q: What colour is the cross on the national flag of Tonga? A: Red
Q: What is the name of the island which lies in the middle of the Niagara Falls? A: Goat Island
Q: Which grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II was the first to marry? A: Peter Phillips
Q: Melanophobia is the irrational fear of which colour? A: Black
Q: Holly Golightly is the heroine of which novel by Truman Capote? A: Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Q: Balham, Clapham and Peckham are districts of which British city? A: London
Q: According to the Bible, who did the Queen of Sheba test the wisdom of? A: Solomon
Q: Who was the father of English monarch King Edward I? A: King Henry III
Q: Which country won the 1963 Eurovision Song Contest with the song ‘Danesvise’? A: Denmark
Q: In sport, how many parries are there in the classical systems of epee and foil fencing? A: Nine
Q: Who played the title role in the 1985 film ‘Red Sonja’? A: Brigitte Nielsen
Q: Cheryl Crane, aged 14, the daughter of which US actress, fatally stabbed her mother’s boyfriend, Johnny Stampano in 1958, while defending her mother? A: Lana Turner
Q: Ernesto Geisel became President of which South American country in 1974? A: Brazil
Q: Who played Lieutenant Colonel Nicholson in the 1957 film ‘The Bridge on the River Kwai’? A: Alec Guinness
Q: Which tennis player beat Rafael Nadal to win his first US Open title in 2011? A: Novak Djokovic
Q: US comedian Joan Alexandra Molinsky is better known by what name? A: Joan Rivers
Q: In which US state did Bill Gates found Microsoft in April 1975? A: New Mexico
Q: What is the national flower of Nepal? A: Rhododendron
Q: Poet Elizabeth Barrett married which poet and playwright on 1846? A: Robert Browning
Q: Which car manufacturer has a logo featuring a red cross and a green snake? A: Alfa Romeo
Q: Which British television channel was launched on 2nd November 1982? A: Channel 4
Q: In medicine, Renal Calculus is another term for what? A: Kidney Stone
Q: Soceraphobia is the irrational fear of which members of the family? A: Parents-in-law
Q: Which British soap opera was the first to feature a gay wedding? A: The Archers
Q: Which country invaded and now controls the north of the island of Cyprus? A: Turkey
Q: In October 2012, which British MP was said to have had to pay for an upgrade after he sat in a first class train carriage with a standard class ticket? A: George Osborne
Q: ‘Winnie the Pooh’ is the Bingo call for which number? A: 42
Q: Which religious movement, developed from ideas of political activist Marcus Garvey, who wanted to improve the status of fellow black people, and which proclaims Garvey as a prophet? A: Rastafari
Q: Who plays the title role in the 1970 film ‘Kelly’s Heroes’? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: The Incas referred to which metal as ‘Tears of the Sun’? A: Gold
Q: In humans, the medical condition Enuresis is what involuntary function? A: Urination
Q: Seersucker is what type of fabric? A: Cotton
Q: The 1999 book ‘Black Hawk Down’ by Mark Bowden chronicles the events of which 1993 battle? A: Battle of Mogadishu
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Cn? A: Copernicium
Q: Jake, Ben and Karen Brockman are the three children in which UK television series? A: Outnumbered
Q: In the 17th Century, which Eurasian country ordered men to pay a tax on their beard, in order to keep the men clean shaven? A: Russia
Q: Which natural facial feature does the ‘Mona Lisa’ not have? A: Eyebrows
Q: From 1784 to 1811 the British government levied a tax on which item of men’s attire? A: Hats
Q: In 16th Century Italy, what were ‘Chopines’? A: Platform shoes
Q: In 1913, New York socialite Mary Phelps Jacob created which first modern item of clothing out of two silk handkerchiefs? A: Brassiere
Q: Fashion designer Helmut Lang was born in which country? A: Austria
Q: The Kelly Bag was named after which Hollywood actress? A: Grace Kelly
Q: Red-soled shoes are the signature of which fashion designer? A: Christian Louboutin
Q: What style of coat was referred to in the Royal Navy as a ‘Convoy Coat’? A: Duffle coat
Q: In 1936, what colour tab was attached to the right rear pocket of Levi jeans, so they could be identified at a distance? A: Red
Q: Who designed Victoria Beckham’s wedding dress? A: Vera Wang
Q: In 1958, ‘His Clothes’ was the first boutique to open in which London street? A: Carnaby Street
Q: Which British luxury brand has a logo featuring an equestrian knight and the Latin word ‘Prorsum’? A: Burberry
Q: A ‘Justacorps’ was which type of garment worn by men in the 17th and 18th Centuries? A: Coat
Q: Who first designed the jersey wrap dress in 1972? A: Diane von Furstenberg
Q: ‘Neither a borrower nor a lender be’ is a line from which Shakespeare play? A: Hamlet
Q: How long, in feet, is a regulation NBA basketball court? A: 94 feet
Q: Shavout is a major festival in which religion? A: Judaism
Q: What type of creature is a koel? A: Bird
Q: In which year was Ferdinand Marcos first elected as President of the Philippines? A: 1965
Q: Who was the first actress to win an Oscar for a performance entirely in a foreign language? A: Sophia Loren
Q: Stanford University is in which US state? A: California
Q: What is the title of the 2000 film in which Bruce Willis plays a security guard who is the sole survivor of a train crash? A: Unbreakable
Q: ‘The Sunshine Showdown’ took place in January 1973 in Jamaica between Joe Frazier and which other boxer? A: George Foreman
Q: Scientist Albert Einstein was born in which country? A: Germany
Q: Diablo is another name for who? A: The Devil
Q: What is the title of Alfred Hitchcock’s last completed film? A: Family Plot
Q: In native American folklore, what is ‘The beast that walks like a man’? A: Bear
Q: Cranial nerves emerge directly from which organ in the human body? A: Brain
Q: UK television fitness guru Diana Moran is better known by what name? A: The Green Goddess
Q: What is the name of Kathy Burke’s character in the UK television series ‘Gimme Gimme Gimme’? A: Linda La Hughes
Q: Chili Dip, Dormie, Fringe and Shagging are all terms used in which sport? A: Golf
Q: The Chao Phraya River is in which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: In which British country are there laws known as ‘Assembly Bills’? A: Wales
Q: Bare-nosed and Hairy-nosed are the two basic kinds of which marsupial? A: Wombat
Q: Laslo Papp won three gold Olympic medals in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Who played Tom Powers in the 1931 film ‘The Public Enemy’? A: James Cagney
Q: What was the first name of the husband of English novelist Virginia Woolf? A: Leonard
Q: The OXO Tower is a landmark in which European city? A: London
Q: ‘Refusing to ignore people in crisis’ is the slogan of which charity? A: British Red Cross
Q: Edward VII was the only British monarch to have been born and died at which royal residence? A: Buckingham Palace
Q: What is the metal tip of an umbrella called? A: Ferrule
Q: What is mixed with soda water to make a spritzer? A: Wine
Q: Which religion calls outsiders ‘The English’? A: Amish
Q: Cathy Hytner was the original ‘Letters Girl’ on which UK television quiz show? A: Countdown
Q: Who was the first Roman Catholic President of the US? A: John F Kennedy
Q: Square Leg is a position in which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Auld Reekie is the nickname for which Scottish city? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which Cardinal gave Hampton Court Palace to King Henry VIII? A: Cardinal Wolsey
Q: Which 1975 novel by Larry McMurty was adapted for a 1983 film starring Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger as mother and daughter? A: Terms of Endearment
Q: Which Boeing airliner made its maiden flight in September 1981? A: 767
Q: Mother Gothel, Vladimir and Flynn Rider are all characters in which 2010 Disney film? A: Tangled
Q: Which marsupial has the Latin name Phascolarctos cinereus? A: Koala
Q: Which animal has the highest known blood pressure of any mammal in the world? A: Giraffe
Q: Who was appointed manager of the England football team in May 2012? A: Roy Hodgson
Q: Bump, Hook, Neck Shot and Wraps are all terms used in which sport? A: Polo
Q: In June 1957, John Diefenbaker became Prime Minister of which country? A: Canada
Q: Which British singer and musician is known as ‘The Modfather’? A: Paul Weller
Q: What is a female hippopotamus called? A: Cow
Q: In 1960, which actress received the first star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in Los Angeles? A: Joanne Woodward
Q: Which two actors have played Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Star Wars’ series of films? A: Alec Guinness and Ewan McGregor
Q: What is the name of the full-dress fur hat worn by hussars and footguard regiments of the British Army? A: Busby
Q: Who is the voice of chief mechanic ‘Big Chris’ in the children’s UK television series ‘Roary the Racing Car’? A: Peter Kay
Q: What was discovered in the American River in California in 1848 by carpenter and sawmill operator James W Marshall? A: Gold
Q: In March 2012, a Florida law firm sacked 14 employees for wearing what colour shirts on a Friday, because employers thought they were making a protest? A: Orange
Q: Bess Wallace was the wife of which US President? A: Harry S Truman
Q: The latissimus muscle is in which part of the human body? A: Back
Q: What is the title of the 2006 follow-up novel to ‘The Queen and I’ by British author Sue Townsend? A: Queen Camilla
Q: Who are the title characters in the Shakespeare play ‘The Two Gentlemen of Verona’? A: Valentine and Proteus
Q: What is the name of the drunken tinker in and for who the play ‘The Taming of the Shrew’, by William Shakespeare, is performed? A: Christopher Sly
Q: Lady Rosaline, Lady Maria and Lady Katherine are all characters in which Shakespeare play? A: Love’s Labour’s Lost
Q: In the opening scene of which Shakespeare play does Hermia refuse to marry Demetrius, who her father has chosen for her, because she wishes to marry Lysander? A: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘The Merry Wives of Windsor’ what is the name of Sir John Falstaff’s page? A: Robin
Q: Which Shakespeare play is set in the port of Messina, on the island of Sicily? A: Much Ado About Nothing
Q: Who is Rosalind disguised as in the Shakespeare play ‘As You Like It’? A: Ganymede
Q: What is the name of Hamlet’s best friend in the Shakespeare play ‘Hamlet’? A: Horatio
Q: Which Shakespeare play is also known under the title ‘What You Will’? A: Twelfth Night
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘Othello’, what was Othello’s first gift to Desdemona? A: A handkerchief
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘Macbeth’, which character carries Macbeth’s head on stage? A: Macduff
Q: The plot of Robert Greene’s prose romance ‘Pandosto: The Triumph of Time’ is said to be the inspiration for which Shakespeare play? A: The Winter’s Tale
Q: Who wrote the majority of the books of the New Testament of the Bible? A: Paul
Q: After how many games in a professional tennis match are the balls first replaced? A: Seven
Q: What is the title of the first feature film directed by Sam Mendes? A: American Beauty
Q: What is the title of Abba’s last UK number one hit single? A: Super Trouper
Q: Ian Botham played his last professional cricket match for which English team? A: Durham
Q: Bunker, Birdie and Fore are all terms used in which sport? A: Golf
Q: What was the first name of famous German scientist Einstein? A: Albert
Q: ‘Taim I’ngra leat’ is Irish for what? A: I love you
Q: Acute viral nasopharyngitis is a medical term for which common ailment? A: The common cold
Q: At the age of 22 years and 47 days who was the youngest captain of the England football team? A: Bobby Moore
Q: Which is the largest city in Asia by population? A: Shanghai
Q: What colour is a fifty ‘pounds’ Monopoly bank note? A: Blue
Q: Which is the only state in the US that commercially grows coffee? A: Hawaii
Q: ‘The ‘what’ Tree’ is a 1987 album by U2? A: Joshua
Q: In the UK in pre-decimal currency how many farthings were in a shilling? A: 48
Q: Harrisburg is the capital of which US state? A: Pennsylvania
Q: Teatro La Fenice opera house is in which European city? A: Venice
Q: The 2009 album ‘Journal for Plague Lovers’ was released by which band? A: Manic Street Preachers
Q: A group of which animals is known as an ‘Array’? A: Hedgehogs
Q: Challis, Loden and Cheviot are all types of which fabric? A: Wool
Q: The headquarters of IT company Viglen double up as one of the filming locations of which British reality television show? A: The Apprentice
Q: The 1990 ‘Community Charge’ introduced by the British government was commonly known by what name? A: Poll Tax
Q: Which element changes a person’s voice when inhaled, making it sound much higher? A: Helium
Q: Who did late actor Humphrey Bogart marry in 1945? A: Lauren Bacall
Q: The first US execution by lethal injection was carried out in December 1982 in which state? A: Texas
Q: Which English author drowned in 1941, after filling her pockets with stones and walking into the River Ouse? A: Virginia Woolf
Q: Late US professional boxer Walker Smith Jr was better known by what name? A: Sugar Ray Robinson
Q: Which cartoon character owns a dog called Dogmatix? A: Obelix
Q: Which UK television game show is the setting for the novel ‘Starter For 10’ by David Nicholls? A: University Challenge
Q: Hipolito Yrigoyen was the President of which South American country from 1928 to 1930? A: Argentina
Q: Which English darts player is known by the nickname ‘The Power’? A: Phil Taylor
