Q: The Ford Sierra replaced which car model? A: CORTINA
Q: What is the name of the north American Swan the heaviest living bird native to North America that became almost extinct in the 1930’s but has since recovered significantly? A: TRUMPETER
Q: The Bridge referred to locally as The Blinking Eye Bridge, or the Winking Eye Bridge spans which river? A: TYNE
Q: What was the name of the Royal Navy Frigate featured in the Radio Comedy Series The Navy Lark? A: HMS TROUTBRIDGE
Q: La Vuelta is the Spanish equivalent of which famous sporting event? A: TOUR DE FRANCE
Q: Who did England play in the opening game of the 2015 Rugby World Cup? A: FIJI
Q: In which US State is Dayton, where the Dayton Agreement was signed in 1995? A: OHIO
Q: Which cathedral houses the bones of the Venerable Bede? A: DURHAM
Q: What nationality was the painter Hieronymus Bosch? A: DUTCH
Q: In which English County is RAF Scampton home of the Red Arrows? A: LINCOLNSHIRE
Q: Which character sings the song ”As long as he needs me” in the musical Oliver? A: NANCY
Q: What instrument did band leader Stan Kenton play? A: PIANO
Q: In Morse code, a single dot represents which letter of the alphabet? A: E
Q: What name is given to a medicinal extract in a solution of alcohol? A: Tincture
Q: The Contra Dam, also known as the Verzasca Dam, is in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: Who was appointed as shadow Home Secretary in September 2015? A: Andy Burnham
Q: What is the largest species of rodent in the world? A: Capybara
Q: What is the birthstone for February? A: Amethyst
Q: Which horse won the 2015 Epsom Derby? A: Golden Horn
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of the hunt, the equivalent of the Roman goddess Diana? A: Artemis
Q: Band leader Glenn Miller was an accomplished player of which musical instrument? A: Trombone
Q: Jefferson City is the state capitol of which American state? A: Missouri
Q: Only You was a 1982 hit single, reaching No.2 in the UK charts for which group? A: Yazoo
Q: Who was the UK Prime Minister when Yuri Gagarin became the first man in space? A: Harold MacMillan
Q: The adjective vulpine relates to which animal? A: Fox
Q: England cricketer, James Taylor plays for which county side? A: Nottinghamshire
Q: Which road linked Rome to Brindisi? A: Appian Way
Q: In physics, what is the S I unit of force? A: Newton
Q: In Morse code, which letter of the alphabet is represented by a single dash? A: T
Q: Who was the first monarch to use Buckingham Palace as their official residence? A: Victoria
Q: Who is the presenter of Sounds of the Sixties on BBC Radio 2? A: Brian Matthew
Q: The Potala Palace is a place of interest in which Asian city? A: Lhasa
Q: What is the largest species of lizard in the world? A: Komodo dragon
Q: Alabama 3 performed the theme song for which major American TV series? A: The Sopranos
Q: The Quetzal is the official currency of which country? A: Guatemala
Q: Which horse won the Aintree Grand National in 2015? A: Many Clouds
Q: Band leader Benny Goodman was an accomplished player of which instrument? A: Clarinet
Q: Harrisburg is the state capitol of which American state? A: Pennsylvania
Q: England cricketer Jos Buttler plays for which county side? A: Lancashire
Q: """All that glisters is not gold"" is a quote from which Shakespeare play?" A: The Merchant of Venice
Q: In physics, what is the S I unit of work? A: Joule
Q: Paragon railway station is in which English city? A: Hull
Q: Who sang the theme song to Dad's Army? A: Bud Flanagan
Q: Which is Britain's largest national park? A: Cairngorms
Q: Alex Polizzi is known as the Hotel Inspector on Channel 4, how is she known in a series on BBC2? A: The Fixer
Q: The native British tree generally known as the Mountain Ash has which alternative name? A: ROWAN
Q: Who held the post of First Lord of the Admiralty at the outbreak of the First World War and was appointed to the post again two days after the outbreak of the Second World War? A: WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: Which country in the Middle East has Doha as its capital? A: QATAR
Q: Which element in the periodic table has atomic number 8 - it is the lowest numbered element to begin with a vowel? A: OXYGEN
Q: David Beckham retired in 2013 after playing 10 games for which French club? A: PARIS SAINT- GERMAIN
Q: The 2010 film Money Never Sleeps is the sequel to which 1987 film? A: WALL STREET
Q: Which American author wrote The Witches of Eastwick? A: JOHN UPDIKE
Q: The River Rhone enters which European lake in Switzerland before exiting the same lake in France - English name needed? A: GENEVA
Q: Which group had a number one hit in 1977 with Chanson D’amour? A: MANHATTAN TRANSFER
Q: What is the maximum number of horses allowed to race in the Grand National? A: FORTY
Q: Who is the current presenter of I’m Sorry I Haven’t a Clue? A: JACK DEE
Q: Who is the daughter of Leontes in The Winter’s Tale? A: PERDITA
Q: In which city is the Potala Palace, the traditional home of the Dalai Lama? A: LHASA
Q: What word can be the title of a 1970’s/1980’s Japanese TV programme, a type of primate, or slang word for £500? A: MONKEY
Q: In art, what name is given to the technique of mural painting on wet plaster? A: FRESCO
Q: What is the surname of the American acting brothers Alec, Stephen, Daniel and William? A: BALDWIN
Q: What nationality is tennis player Agnieszka Radwanska? A: POLISH
Q: Who was the last British Prime Minister to have a double letter in their surname (as in Pitt)? A: JAMES CALLAGHAN
Q: Which motor manufacturer produces the Duster model? A: DACIA
Q: Which European city stands on fourteen islands at the mouth of Lake Mälaren? A: STOCKHOLM
Q: What name is given to the winding route through Jerusalem from the Antonia Fortress to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre? A: VIA DOLOROSA
Q: Also in the Musée d’Orsay, who painted Bedroom in Arles in the 1880s? A: VINCENT VAN GOGH
Q: Which King of England is buried in Worcester Cathedral? A: JOHN
Q: Which jockey, with 20, has ridden in the Grand National most times? A: A P MCCOY
Q: The theme song of which Bond film was composed by Paul and Linda McCartney? A: LIVE AND LET DIE
Q: Who is the daughter of Prospero in The Tempest? A: MIRANDA
Q: Which motorway links Cadnam, west of Southampton to Portsmouth? A: M27
Q: Who is the famous brother of the actress Shirley MacLaine? A: WARREN BEATTY
Q: What is the name of Sebastian Flyte’s teddy bear in Brideshead Revisited? A: ALOYSIUS
Q: What nationality is racing driver Felipe Massa? A: BRAZILIAN
Q: Who composed the operas Oedipus Rex and The Rake’s Progress? A: IGOR STRAVINSKY
Q: Which group had a number one hit in 1966 with Reach Out I'll Be There? A: FOUR TOPS
Q: The garden flower Kniphofia sometimes known as the ‘Torch Lily’ is more commonly known by what name? A: RED HOT POKER
Q: In the build-up to World War One, what was the Dual Monarchy? A: AUSTRIA-HUNGARY
Q: Which African country has Dodoma as its capital? A: TANZANIA
Q: Which England Rugby Union international retired in 2014 after playing five seasons for Toulon? A: JONNY WILKINSON
Q: For which film did Catherine Zeta-Jones win an Academy Award as Best Supporting Actress? A: CHICAGO
Q: Which American author wrote The Caine Mutiny? A: HERMAN WOUK
Q: In which month is the Lord Mayor’s Show held in London? A: NOVEMBER
Q: Which American General later President won the Battle of Horseshoe Bend? A: ANDREW JACKSON
Q: Which actress played a woman whose timeline gets split into parallel paths in the 1998 film Sliding Doors? A: GWYNETH PALTROW
Q: What is the capital of Somalia? A: MOGADISHU
Q: Who is the leader of the Liberal Democrats? A: TIM FARRON
Q: Which was the first year the World Cup was televised in colour? A: 1970
Q: Lady Helen Taylor is the daughter of which Royal Duke? A: DUKE OF KENT
Q: Which 1989 Andrew Lloyd Weber musical is based on a 1955 novella by David Garnett? A: ASPECTS OF LOVE
Q: What is the more popular name for the plant impatiens? A: BUSY LIZZIE
Q: In which English county is Bletchley Park? A: BUCKINGHAMSHIRE
Q: In 2015 which London museum rejected the Thatcher family’s offer to display memorabilia belonging to the former Prime Minister? A: THE VICTORIA AND ALBERT
Q: Which mythical Titan shares his name with the first cervical vertebrae in humans? A: ATLAS
Q: Mace is made from the dried outer covering of which seed, which itself is used as a spice? A: NUTMEG
Q: What is the name of the Edinburgh Detective created by Ian Rankin? A: JOHN REBUS
Q: From which counry did Cameroon gain independence in 1960? A: FRANCE
Q: In which US City is William B. Hartsfield Airport? A: ATLANTA
Q: Who was the Greek Queen of the Gods? A: HERA
Q: At the 2016 Oscars which film won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature? A: INSIDE OUT
Q: Who painted Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy, and a Bigger Splash? A: DAVID HOCKNEY
Q: Which actress played the title role in the 1976 film Carrie? A: SISSY SPACEK
Q: What is the symbol of the British Standards Institution? A: KITEMARK
Q: Which English actor/singer played the role of P.T. Barnum in the musical Barnum when it opened on Broadway in 1980? A: JIM DALE
Q: In which year did Louis Bleriot become the fist man to cross the English Channel in an heavier than air craft? A: 1909
Q: What is the pollen producing organ of a flower? A: STAMEN
Q: In which English county was RAF Greenham Common, famous for its peace camp which was closed down in 1993? A: BERKSHIRE
Q: With which British band did singer/keyboardist Damon Albarn first come to prominence in the late 1980’s? A: BLUR
Q: The three largest cruise ships in the world are own by which cruise line? A: ROYAL CARIBBEAN
Q: What type of creature is the Simurgh from Persian mythology? A: BIRD
Q: A brick laid lengthways in wall construction is called a stretcher, what is a brick laid crossways called? A: A HEADER
Q: Which actor played Pierre in the 1970’s TV series of War and Peace? A: ANTHONY HOPKINS
Q: What was the name of the detective created by Ruth Rendell who lived in Kingsmarkham? A: WEXFORD
Q: From which country did Angola gain independence in 1975? A: PORTUGAL
Q: Which 1847 book tells the story of the four orphaned Beverley children who are saved by gamekeeper Jacob Armitage? A: CHILDREN OF THE NEW FOREST
Q: In which European city is Marco Polo Airport? A: VENICE
Q: Jonny and Colin Greenwood are members of which alternative rock band? A: RADIOHEAD
Q: At which Battle of 1812 did the British and allied forces under Wellington defeat a French Army led by Marmont? A: SALAMANCA
Q: The Missouri Breaks National Monument is in which US State? A: MONTANA
Q: In Prokofiev’s Peter and the Wolf what animal does the clarinet represent? A: THE CAT
Q: From which country does Fynbo cheese come? A: DENMARK
Q: Which star, the brightest in the constellation Lyra, is the fifth-brightest of all the stars visible in the night sky? A: Vega
Q: Who founded the Order of the Thistle in 1687? A: James II of England
Q: "Who wrote the 12 volume novel sequence ""A Dance to the Music of Time”?" A: Anthony Powell
Q: What was the name of the Celtic fire festival, which marked the end of the harvest season and the beginning of winter? A: Samhain
Q: The brightest star in the constellation Canis Minor is also the eighth brightest in the whole night sky. What is its name? A: Procyon
Q: Which team caused the first major upset in the Rugby World Cup when they beat Wales 16-13 in a pool match at Cardiff Arms Park in 1991? A: Western Samoa
Q: "Which 1961 film starred Paul Newman as pool shark ""Fast"" Eddie Felson?" A: The Hustler
Q: Who was the founder of King's College, Cambridge? A: Henry the Sixth
Q: Which novel, first published in the UK in 1921, was the first to feature Agatha Christie's detective, Hercule Poirot? A: The Mysterious Affair at Styles
Q: Who was the thunder god in Celtic mythology? A: Taranis
Q: "Chris Gittins played which character in BBC Radio's ""The Archers"" for thirty five-years between 1953 and 1988?" A: Walter Gabriel
Q: Who was the Ireland rugby coach when they achieved the Grand Slam in 2009? A: Declan Kidney
Q: The Harrow and Halifax bomber-aircraft, which saw service with the R.A.F. during the Second World War, were built by which company? A: Handley-Page
Q: What do the Americans call the vegetable known in the UK as a courgette? A: Zucchini
Q: Which waterway was developed by Ferdinand de Lesseps and opened in 1869? A: The Suez Canal
Q: Which fictional character, in books and on TV, often spoke of dealing with the Penge Bungalow Murders as the great event of a long career? A: Horace Rumpole
Q: "Which opera singer was known as the ""Swedish Nightingale""?" A: Jenny Lind
Q: Which Avro delta wing bomber entered service in the RAF in 1956 and was retired in 1984? A: Vulcan
Q: Mendoza and La Rioja are wine regions in which country? A: Argentina
Q: Eritrea gained independence from which country in 1993? A: Ethiopia
Q: King Albert II abdicated as monarch of which country on July 21st 2013 in favour of his son Crown Prince Phillipe? A: Belgium
Q: "Peter Benson appeared in over two hundred episodes of TV's ""Heartbeat"" between 1995 and 2010, playing which role?" A: Bernie Scripps
Q: Which fortified wine is produced in the Italian island of Sicily? A: Marsala
Q: Anthony Trollope's character, Plantagenet Palliser, sits in the House of Lords under what title? A: Duke of Omnium
Q: Who was the heavily-moustached, gun-toting cowboy who sometimes pitted his wits against Bugs Bunny in Warner Brother's cartoons? A: Yosemite Sam
Q: "Which artist sang the soundtrack to the Bond film ""Spectre""?" A: Sam Smith
Q: "Which department store chain claims to be ""never knowingly undersold""?" A: John Lewis
Q: The Gulf of Aqaba is an inlet of which sea? A: The Red Sea
Q: "Which fruit, with the botanical name Rubus idaeus, has varieties called “Lloyd George”, ""Hailsham” and ""Malling Jewel""?" A: The Raspberry
Q: "Which German-born, French composer, wrote ""Orpheus in the Underworld1' and ""The Tales of Hoffmann”?" A: Jacques Offenbach
Q: What was the name of the lasagne loving cat created by Jim Davis? A: Garfield
Q: The Guarani is the principal unit of currency of which country? A: Paraguay
Q: "Who sang the theme tune to the James Bond film ""Thunderball""?" A: Tom Jones
Q: Under what name does US singer-songwriter Elizabeth Grant perform, her albums include 'Born to Die' and 'Honeymoon'? A: Lana Del Rey
Q: As what is a bowler hat known as in the USA? A: Derby
Q: "What is the name of the fruit which has varieties called ""Royal George"", ""Rochester"" and ""Peregrine"" and the botanical name Prunus persica?" A: The Peach
Q: "Who starred in the role of The Mariner in the 1995 film ""Waterworld""?" A: Kevin Costner
Q: In Guatemala, what is the principal unit of currency called? A: The Quetzal
Q: Alex Turner is the lead singer with which Yorkshire based band? A: The Arctic Monkeys
Q: "Roy in 'The Old Guys"" and Richard Bucket pronounced ""Bouquet"") in ""Keeping Up Appearances"" were major TV roles for which Liverpool-born actor?" A: Clive Swift
Q: Which country on the West African coast lies between The Democratic Republic of the Congo and Namibia? A: Angola
Q: Who played Lieutenant Jordan O'Neil, the titular G.l. Jane in the 1997 film? A: Demi Moore
Q: """Mary Poppins"", ""Peter Pan"" and ""Soho Cinders"" are among the musicals of which composer, in association with lyricist Anthony Drewe, a partnership formed at Exeter University?" A: George Stiles
Q: Originally commissioned by IBM in 1955, which typeface quickly became a standard throughout the typewriter industry? A: Courier
Q: Who was the father of John of Gaunt and Edward, the Black Prince? A: Edward 3
Q: Which unit of weight is used to measure the fineness of nylon? A: Denier
Q: Patricia Arquette won the 2015 Oscar for Best Supporting Actress playing Olivia Evans in which film? A: Boyhood
Q: Which long-distance walk usually starts on top of Mt. Snowden and finishes at the O.S. trig point on Foel Fras some 24 miles later? A: The Welsh 3000
Q: The Ghost Road by Pat Barker, which won the Booker Prize in 1995, is the third volume in which trilogy? A: Regeneration Trilogy
Q: What is the capital of the Northwest Territories, Canada? A: Yellowknife
Q: With which other cricketer does James Anderson hold the England record for the most successful bowler/wicket keeper combination with 68 wickets? A: Matt Prior
Q: Amner Hall, home to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge is located within which larger crown estate? A: Sandringham
Q: Which car company produces a compact MPV model called the Verso? A: Toyota
Q: "In The Mikado by Gilbert & Sullivan who introduces himself as ""a wandering minstrel, I""?" A: Nanki Poo
Q: In the British Commonwealth, Canada is the largest country by area. Which Commonwealth country is the 2nd largest by area? A: Australia
Q: Which 1980's musical did Tim Rice write with ABBA members Benny Andersson and Bjorn Alvaeus? A: Chess
Q: What is added to a croque monsieur to make a croquet madame? A: A fried egg
Q: In which book of the bible is the story of the ten plagues of Egypt? A: Exodus
Q: Bile is produced in which organ of the human body? A: Liver
Q: The Epsom Derby and The 2,000 Guineas Stakes are 2 of the 3 races that make up British racing's Triple Crown. Name the third. A: St. Leger
Q: The 1999 film 10 Things I Hate About You starring Julia Stiles and Heath Ledger is based on which of Shakespeare's plays? A: The Taming of the Shrew
Q: What was the aim of the World War 2 allied operation Dynamo? A: Evacuation from Dunkirk
Q: What is the first name of the Italian artist Caravaggio? A: Michelangelo
Q: Which tea growing region of India has a Hindi name meaning 'Land of the Thunderbolt'? A: Darjeeling
Q: Which element, atomic no. 33 derives its name from a Persian word for yellow? A: Arsenic
Q: Who composed the 1928 symphonic poem An American in Paris? A: George Gershwin
Q: Who was the last native Welshman to hold the title Prince of Wales? A: Owain Glendower
Q: Commonly used in the textile industry, which unit of thermal resistance is used to measure the thickness of duvets? A: Tog
Q: J K Simmons won the 2015 Oscar for Best Supporting Actor playing Terence Fletcher in which film? A: Whiplash
Q: The Balkan Trilogy and The Levant Trilogy, both written by Olivia Manning were made into which 1987 BBC TV series starring Emma Thompson and Kenneth Branagh? A: Fortunes of War
Q: Bacharach and David composed the music for a 1973 musical remake of which 1937 Frank Capra film? A: Lost Horizon
Q: What is the capital of the Yukon, Canada? A: Whitehorse
Q: What was the currency of Greece before it adopted the Euro? A: Drachma
Q: Frogmore House, previously used as a royal residence and now largely used on ceremonial occasions only is located within which larger crown estate? A: Windsor
Q: Which car company produces a convertible model called the Eos? A: Volkswagen
Q: In the Gilbert & Sullivan operetta, what must the Baronet Ruddigore do every day to avoid the witch's curse and die in agony? A: Commit a crime
Q: India is the most populous country in the British Commonwealth. Which country has the 2nd largest population in the Commonwealth? A: Pakistan
Q: Opening in London in 1984, which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical had lyrics by Richard Stilgoe and choreography by Arlene Phillips? A: Starlight Express
Q: Who is the English logician who devised an algebraic system that has since been adopted for the analysis of digital electronic circuitry? A: George Boole
Q: Insulin is produced by which organ of the human body? A: Pancreas
Q: The 1995 film Clueless starring Alicia Silverstone is based on which novel by Jane Austen? A: Emma
Q: What was the aim of the World War 2 allied operation Market Garden? A: To cross the Rhine
Q: Which element, atomic no. 74 derives its name from the Swedish word for heavy stone? A: Tungsten
Q: With the county town of Lifford, which is the most northerly of the counties of the Irish Republic? A: Donegal
Q: In baseball, what name is given to an ambidextrous batter? A: Switch hitter
Q: To date, no full member of the E.U. has ever left, but which autonomous country within the union voted to leave in 1982, leaving in 1985? A: Greenland
Q: Who became MP for Uxbridge South & Ruislip at the 2015 General Election? A: Boris Johnson
Q: During World War 2 Operation Chastise was the code name for which event of 1943? A: Dambusters Raid
Q: PH Newby was the first winner in 1969 of which award? A: Booker Prize
Q: Which government post is held by Jeremy Wright, MP for Kenilworth & Southam? A: Attorney General
Q: In terms of area, which is the second largest lake in North America after Lake Superior? A: Lake Huron
Q: For his role in the film The Theory of Everything’, which actor won the Best Film Actor BAFTA in 2015? A: Eddie Redmayne
Q: Which African country uses the cedi as its currency? A: Ghana
Q: What is the most common name for the drug Sildenafil Citrate? A: Viagra
Q: Mintonette was the original name given to which sport? A: Volleyball
Q: In which year did the Channel Tunnel open? A: 1994
Q: Where on the human body is the lunula? A: Fingernail
Q: How many stars are there on the EU flag? A: 12
Q: Which Democrat candidate did Ronald Reagan defeat in the 1984 US Presidential Election? A: Walter Mondale
Q: Which country's parliament is called the Folketing? A: Denmark
Q: In which English county is Longleat House and Safari Park? A: Wiltshire
Q: What maritime order is also termed The Birkenhead Drill? A: Women and children first
Q: Nancy Sinatra sang the theme tune for which 1967 James Bond film? A: You Only Live Twice
Q: Which country will host the 2019 Rugby Union World Cup? A: Japan
Q: Which is the latest country to join the EU, doing so in July 2013? A: Croatia
Q: In terms of area which is the second largest lake in Africa after Lake Victoria? A: Lake Tanganyika
Q: Which film starring Michael Keaton and Amy Ryan won the Best Picture Oscar in 2015? A: Birdman
Q: Which South American country uses the Nuevo Sol as its currency? A: Peru
Q: What type of animal is a mulefoot? A: Pig
Q: Who was assassinated on 6th October 1981 by troops when he was inspecting at a victory parade? A: Anwar Sadat
Q: What is the most common trade name of the drug Fluoxetine? A: Prozac
Q: In what year did the United Kingdom National Lottery begin? A: 1994
Q: Which internet company was founded by Pierre Omidyar in 1995? A: eBay
Q: In a 1961 novel, which title character taught at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls? A: Miss Jean Brodie
Q: What is the English name for the Japanese Parliament? A: Diet
Q: What was the name of the Queen Mother’s official residence in London until 2002? It is now the official residence of Prince Charles. A: Clarence House
Q: Which Stephen King novel features the characters John and Wendy Torrance and their son Danny? A: The Shining
Q: In which country is the port of Fray Bentos? A: Uruguay
Q: Which is the only racecourse in Staffordshire? A: Uttoxeter
Q: What alternative name was given to the American Civil War battles at Manassa in 1861? A: Bull Run
Q: Which vitamin is also known as Retinol or Retinal? A: A
Q: In which year was the Great Train Robbery in Buckinghamshire? A: 1963
Q: In terms of area, what is the largest island in Asia? A: Borneo
Q: Which debtors’ prison, in Southwark, was depicted in Charles Dickens’ book Little Dorrit? A: Marshalsea
Q: Apart from coins and banknotes-what else can a numismatist collect? A: Medals
Q: Which desert covers much of Botswana, and parts of Namibia and South Africa? A: The Kalahari
Q: The French drink Kir consists of white wine and which other ingredient? A: (Creme de) Cassis
Q: Which Saint founded the monastery on the island of Iona and died there in 597 AD? A: Saint Columba
Q: What was the name of Sir Francis Drake’s ship at the start of his circumnavigation of the world in 1577? A: The Pelican
Q: Which battle between England and France was fought in August 1346? A: Crecy
Q: In 1872, which country played England in the first ever international game of football? A: Scotland
Q: The word for which discipline is derived from the Sanskrit word for ‘to unite’ or ‘to join’? A: Yoga
Q: What name was given to one of the ten divisions of a legion? A: A Cohort
Q: Which theatre did David Garrick, the famed actor manage and run from 1747-1776? A: Theatre Royal Drury Lane
Q: Which organisation founded in Pulaski Tennessee in December 1865 by 6 former members of the Confederate Army? A: Ku Klux Klan
Q: Which orchestral instrument is known as fagotto in Italian? A: Bassoon
Q: In which city did Martin Luther King make his ‘I have a dream’ speech in August 1963? A: Washington DC
Q: According to the British Horseracing Authority, what is the shortest distance over which horses race? A: 5 Furlongs
Q: What two word phrase means the smallest amount of fissile material needed for a sustained nuclear chain reaction? A: Critical Mass
Q: Triton is the largest moon of which planet? A: Neptune
Q: How many hurdles must be cleared in Men’s 110m and 400m Hurdles races? A: Ten
Q: By what name is Acetylsalicylic Acid better known? A: Aspirin
Q: Who was the first British Labour Prime Minister? A: Ramsey McDonald
Q: Who wrote the 1932 novel ‘Brave New World’? A: Aldous Huxley
Q: Which 1927 musical features the song ‘Old Man River’? A: Show Boat
Q: The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is in which American state? A: South Dakota
Q: Tony Stark is the real name of which super-hero featured in Marvel comics and later films? A: Iron Man
Q: Who sang the theme tune to Rawhide, the TV series which ran from 1959-1966? A: Frankie Laine
Q: Which is Scotland’s longest river? A: Tay
Q: Which god was said to be the father of Romulus and Remus the legendary founders of Rome? A: Mars
Q: Which Briton won an ice-skating Gold at the 1980 Lake Placid Olympics? A: Robin Cousins
Q: In English Common Law, what is the minimum number of people that can constitute a riot? A: Three
Q: In which English county would you find Stonehenge? A: Wiltshire
Q: In which small North Yorkshire market town is the Black Sheep Brewery based? A: Masham
Q: What was the first pitched battle of the English civil War? A: Edgehill
Q: In which country did the 'Orange’ Revolution take place between 2004 and 2005? A: Ukraine
Q: Which pirate’s ship was called Queen Anne’s Revenge? A: Blackbeard
Q: According to the video trailer promoting a 2014 spiritual movie, Autobiography of a Yogi was the only book on the iPad of which person who died on Oct 5, 2011? A: Steve Jobs
Q: The Pushkar Fair, an annual event in the desert state of Rajashtan in India, witnesses sales of thousands of livestock with a focus on what? A: Camels
Q: François Coty’s Chypre, Paul Parquet’s Fougère Royale, and Aimé Guerlain's Jicky are three of the many representations at an archive in Versailles, France that was founded in 1990 to preserve what? A: Scents
Q: On the way to the Vatican Museums are the Sistine Chapel (which obviously features Michelangelo's frescoes) and a suite of rooms that features frescoes of what other great? A: Raphael
Q: French artist Yves Klein created a series of works he called Anthropometry using what as paint brushes? A: Humans
Q: Because it was worn by recently freed slaves in Ancient Rome, what cap became the symbol of liberty? A: Pileus
Q: What name was given to the group of hedonistic British and Irish aristocrats who lived in an area overlapping Kenya and Uganda between the 1920s and the 1940s? A: Happy Valley set
Q: Who is the person of religious history whose pardon was the subject of a 1950 novel by Pär Lagerkvist as well as a 1961 portrayal by Anthony Quinn? A: Barabbas
Q: The Marie de' Medici Cycle is a series of twenty-four paintings by which artist? A: Peter Paul Rubens
Q: So what if he failed, he tried, didn't he? The Hellenic Air Force Academy was renamed after which mythological character in 1967? A: Icarus
Q: What controversial objects of the world of culture are by far the biggest attraction in the purpose built Duveen Gallery of the British Museum? A: Elgin Marbles
Q: In an Aesop fable that shows the power of persuasion over force, what element fights the sun? A: Wind
Q: America's oldest and still-running wooden roller coaster that can be found at Coney Island has what 'stormy' name? A: Cyclone
Q: The Spoonmaker's Diamond is a major attraction of a museum at what location that used to be the primary residence of the Ottoman Sultans for 400 years? A: Topkapi palace
Q: The planet Dagobah is the site of exile of which wise master voiced by Frank Oz throughout a seminal series? A: Yoda
Q: Two punsters who call themselves Ol' Chumbucket and Cap'n Slappy designated September 19 as the annual what day? Arrrrrrrrrrr! A: Talk like a pirate day
Q: Mohini the enchantress is the only female manifestation of which male deity of the Hindu pantheon known for his avatars? A: Vishnu
Q: A Japanese painting in the simplistic style of haiga is also likely to contain what? A: Haiku poem
Q: Lapot in Romania, Ubasute in Japan and Ättestupa in the Nordic world are all terms for what custom in difficult times that is commonly associated with the Inuit? A: Senicide
Q: If Lisa Gherardini the wife of Francesco del Giocondo is the subject of Da Vinci's masterpiece (Mona Lisa), who is the wife of Ferdinand Bloch-Bauer who was the subject of Klimt's record setting 1907 painting? A: Adele
Q: What is the missing word in graffiti artist Banksy's 2005 compilation ___ and Piece? A: Wall
Q: The trickster god Anansi who has a prominent place in African folklore is what type of creature? A: Spider
Q: In Aboriginal myth, if Dreamtime is the era when spirit beings created the world, what are the paths they traversed? A: Songlines
Q: In Greek mythology, if ambrosia is the food of the gods and nectar their drink, what is 'ichor'? A: Blood
Q: One of the most recognized pieces of Japanese art from the series Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji by Hokusai that depicts a huge tidal wave is titled The Great Wave off what place? A: Kanagawa
Q: Spirits known as loa are appeased by the practitioners of what belief system? A: Voodoo
Q: What is the main feature of Chinese artist Liu Bolin's work? A: Camouflage
Q: Kamadhenu the wish-granting cow, Kaustubha the jewel, and Parijat the divine flowering tree are some of the items that emerged during what episode of Hindu mythology? A: Churning of the Ocean of Milk
Q: The distinctive wooden carved and bright red colored Dala horses are associated with which country? A: Sweden
Q: A 1480s painting by Albertus Pictor in Täby Church located north of Stockholm that inspired a film director depicts a man playing chess with whom? A: Death
Q: The Roman Empire themed Caesers Palace casino in Las Vegas features an indulgent buffet that has what appropriate 'festive' name? A: Bacchanal
Q: What Hindu pilgrimage that takes place every twelve years in which people participate in ritual purification in rivers (mainly the Ganges) is said to be among the largest gatherings of humanity? A: Kumbh Mela
Q: The artist Lee Krasner who used to cut her own paintings to create collages was married to which other artist? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: In folklore, what did the 16th century raabi Judah Loew ben Bezalel create to defend the Prague ghetto from antisemitic attacks? A: Golem
Q: O'zapft is! What is the better known name of the annual celebration called by the locals as 'Wiesn' referring to the grounds where it is held? A: Oktoberfest
Q: The myths contained in the texts Kojiki and Nihan Shoki are the inspiration behind the practices of what belief system? A: Shintoism
Q: In response to a request by Gypsy Rose Lee, what term for a striptease performer was coined by the H. L. Mencken after he channeled his inner Greek and thought of invertebrate molting? A: Ecdysiast
Q: Suzanne Collins said that the main theme in The Hunger Games was derived from a Greek myth in which King Minos has Athens send seven youths and seven maidens to what monster? A: Minotaur
Q: The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis explored in the award winning 1966 novel Babel-17 states that human thought is strongly influenced by what? A: Language
Q: What invention of Mary Quant whose users were subject to raids by the moral police in the 60s was named after her favourite make of car? A: Miniskirt
Q: Treskilling Yellow from Sweden, Bull's Eye from Brazil, Inverted Jenny from the United States, Basel Dove from Switzerland and Benjamin Franklin Z Grill from the United States are some of the famous specimens of what? A: Postage stamps
Q: What phrase that means 'to discard, or dispose of' originates from the practice of burial at sea that requires a minimum depth of water to be carried out? A: """To deep six"""
Q: In Islamic mythology, what bottled-up creatures make up the three sentient creations of Allah along with humans and angels? A: Jinns
Q: The most important text of what popular practice, varieties of which include hatha, mantra and raja is attributed to Patañjali? A: Yoga
Q: What type of porcelain developed by Josiah Spode originated in a factory that was proximate to slaughterhouses (and thus had access to animal byproducts)? A: Bone china
Q: The 500 peso note issued by the Bank of Mexico in 2010 contains the image of the artist Diego Rivera on the obverse side. Whose image is on the reverse side? A: Frida Kahlo's
Q: What concept of Hinduism is traditionally classified into three kinds - Sanchita (accumulated), Prarabdha (ripened) and Kriyamana (produced in the current life)? A: Karma
Q: The sedia gestatoria, a portable throne that was in use till 1978 was used to carry whom? A: Popes
Q: If Deucalion is to Greek mythology and Utnapishtim is to Mesopotamian mythology, who is the equivalent figure in Christianity? (hint: all saved themselves in a particular way) A: Noah
Q: A corroboree is a ceremonial meeting of what group of people? A: Australian Aborigines
Q: In Greek mythology, while going back from the Trojan War, whom did Menelaus successfully capture despite that person taking the form of a lion, a serpent, a leopard, a pig, and even that of water and a tree? A: Proteus
Q: In times gone by, shepherds used to place a bell around the neck of a castrated ram that was leading a flock of sheep so that the movement of the flock could be noted. What was another term for the castrated ram? A: Wether
Q: The annual Mount Hagen Cultural Show that began in 1961 both as a celebration of tribal culture and as a forum for friendly competition (in place of tribal war) is one of the biggest draws of which large island nation? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: The Kiswa, a 658 sq. m. silk cloth embroidered with gold threads drapes what religious object? A: Kaaba in Mecca
Q: In 18th/19th century England, mercury was used in the production of felt, which was used in the manufacturing of hats. Some workers in these factories developed dementia because of mercury poisoning. What expression for insanity has this etymological origin? A: Mad as a hatter
Q: The Nine Worthies were personalities established in the Middle Ages who were said to represent the ideals of chivalry. Which 'tamer of horses' and heroic defender from Greek mythology is missing in the Pagans section? Pagans: ___, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar Old Testament Jews: Joshua, David, Judas Maccabeus Chivalric Christian Heroes: King Arthur, Charlemagne, Godfrey of Bouillon A: Hector
Q: What is the better known name of the Mawlawi followers of Sufism who are known for their 'rotating' motion during a ceremony called Seema? A: Whirling Dervishes
Q: K Street in Washington D.C. that is appropriately not far from government is home to several offices of what 'influential' industry? A: Lobbying
Q: The notion of God having two forms and ten Sefirot mediating between them is central to the belief system of which mystical tradition? A: Kabbalah
Q: Although never part of international maritime law, which phrase was popularised by its usage on the RMS Titanic as a consequence of which 74% of the women and 52% of the children were saved but only 20% of the men? A: """Women and children first"""
Q: The etymology of what form of entertainment may come from the valley of 'Vau de Vire' in Normandy where satirical songs were common? A: Vaudeville
Q: The name of what toy is a portmanteau of the Japanese word for 'egg' and the English word 'watch'? A: Tamagotchi
Q: During the Falklands War, because a British aircraft lacked a conventional 'chaff' dispensing mechanism (used as a radar countermeasure), engineers designed one using welding rods, split pins and string.This eccentric make do was given the name of which cartoonist? A: Heath Robinson
Q: In Greek mythology, a group of fierce fighters called the Myrmidons were commanded by which mighty warrior? A: Achilles
Q: First used in the context of folklore in 1885, what term describes a god/spirit/animal who disobeys normal rules and tries to survive the dangers of the world using deceit? A: Trickster
Q: What word that means 'cheap' or 'gaudy' is derived from the practice of trinkets sold at St. Audrey's fair in England? A: Tawdry
Q: In Greek mythology, what river flowed around the cave of Hypnos in the Underworld and caused forgetfulness in all those who drank from it? A: Lethe
Q: What classical ballet tells the story of Odette who is turned into a creature by an evil sorcerer's curse? A: Swan Lake
Q: The 1633 painting The Storm on the Sea of Galilee that depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the waves was stolen in 1990 from a Boston museum in what is considered to be the biggest art theft in history. This painting is the only known seascape of which great artist? A: Rembrandt
Q: Toru Iwatani, the creator of which popular video game admitted in a 1996 interview that the story of a pizza missing a slice being the inspiration of the game's main character was only half true? A: Pac-Man
Q: What satanic name was used to describe an apprentice who performed a number of tasks such as mixing tubs of ink in a printing establishment? A: Printer's devil
Q: What derogatory name for the British has its origins in sailors eating something to avoid scurvy? A: Limey
Q: When is a riderless or caparisoned horse with boots reversed in the stirrups most commonly seen? A: Funeral procession
Q: In 1933, which Mexican artist commissioned by the Rockefeller family to create a mural caused controversy by including Lenin in it? A: Diego Rivera
Q: What non-woven cloth that is produced by matting and pressing fibers is the oldest form of fabric known to humankind? A: Felt
Q: The Scarlet Sails celebration is the culmination of what annual festival that takes place during the season of the midnight sun in St. Petersburg? A: White Nights Festival
Q: The most famous symbol of what people of North Africa is the Tagelmust, an indigo blue-colored veil that gives them the name 'People of the Veil'? A: Tuareg
Q: Which major 20th century art movement is divided into two parts called Analytical and Synthetic? A: Cubism
Q: What is the term for the fine pattern of cracks formed on old paintings, which is sometimes used to detect forged art as it is a hard-to-forge signature of authenticity? A: Craquelure
Q: What cultural symbol of Mexico is said to represent both the Virgin Mary and the Aztec goddess Tonantzin? A: Our Lady of Guadalupe
Q: Alluded to by Alexander Pope in his An Essay on Criticism, in Greek mythology it was believed that drinking from what body of water would bring you great inspiration? A: Pierian spring
Q: What is the illustrated manuscript produced by Celtic monks around 800 AD that has been described as the zenith of Western calligraphy and illumination? A: The Book of Kells
Q: What is the Japanese equivalent of the Chinese art of penjing? A: Bonsai
Q: What valuable commodities were called as 'sweat of the sun' and 'tears of the moon' by the Incas? A: Gold and silver
Q: "When this great artist was once criticized for creating unrealistic art, he asked his accuser ""Can you show me some realistic art?"" The man showed him a photograph of his wife. The artist observed: ""So your wife is two inches tall, two-dimensional, with no arms and no legs, and no colour but only shades of gray?"" Who is this artist who went through a 'Blue Period' and a 'Rose Period'?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What is the name of the ritual practiced by some Bedouin tribes for the purpose of lie detection in which the accused is asked to lick a hot object? A: Bishaa
Q: Western Red Cedar trees are typically used by the indigenous cultures of the Pacific Northwest coast of North America to carve what distinctive artifacts? A: Totem poles
Q: What is the name of the water management system developed in ancient Persia that is used to provide a reliable supply of water in hot and arid climates? A: Qanat
Q: Until the 80s, visitors to Disneyland would purchase books of coupons that were in different alphabetical denominations with the highest one being the most expensive and reserved for the most popular rides. What expression for a thrilling situation originates from this practice? A: E ticket ride
Q: The Temple of the Tooth which houses the only surviving relic of Buddha (a tooth) is located in the city of Kandy in which Asian country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: During the canonization process of the Roman Catholic Church, what was the lawyer who argued against the canonization of a candidate called? A: Devil's advocate
Q: Made famous by the movie Midnight Express, what is the punishment of 'falaka' or 'bastinado'? A: Soles of the feet
Q: In a slogan that became popular in Costa Rica, it is claimed that which advertising character prefers that country's coffee implying his preference over Colombian coffee? A: Juan Valdez
Q: The name of American businessman and ex-CEO of Union Carbide Warren Anderson who died in Sep, 2014 is associated with the industrial disaster of which city? A: Bhopal
Q: In his 1999 book The Lexus and the Olive Tree, in what came to be known as the Golden Arches theory, Thomas L. Friedman wrote that no two nations with a McDonald's franchise had ever gone to war. He upgraded this theory in The World is Flat taking the name of what technology company to further underscore the link between strong economic ties and peace? A: Dell
Q: The firm Sterling Cooper featured in the hit TV series Mad Men is located in what part of New York? A: Madison Avenue
Q: What famous 3-word ad line of an apparel company was coined by Dan Wieden who got it from the final words of executed murderer Gary Gilmore? A: """Just Do It"" (Nike)"
Q: US Secretary of Defense Charles Wilson is known for saying that what's good for which company is also good for his country? A: General Motors
Q: The Glock gun is a noted export of what country? A: Austria
Q: An unidentified Satoshi Nakamoto is credited with what concept that has taken the financial world by storm? A: Bitcoin
Q: Unimate which worked in a General Motors assembly line in 1961 has what distinction in the world of business? A: First industrial robot
Q: Structures called yakhchals in Persia may be called the ancient versions of what modern contraption? A: Refrigerator
Q: When engineer Percy Spencer discovered that his chocolate bar became a mess when near a magnetron, it lead to the invention of what modern convenience? A: Microwave
Q: The automobile SEAT 600 made from 1957 to 1973 is associated with the economic boom of what country? A: Spain
Q: The idea for what company originated when Reed Hastings paid $40 in fine for returning Apollo 13 well past its due date? A: Netflix
Q: What municipality in Switzerland, also the highest city in Europe, is the annual host of the World Economic Forum (WEF) meet? A: Davos
Q: In the year 1636 during the Dutch Golden Age, what unlikely item became the fourth leading export after gin, herring and cheese causing a journalist to write a book Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds? A: Tulip bulb
Q: The name of what entertainment business has its origin in that Texas, in its roller-coaster history, was governed by half a dozen entities? A: Six Flags
Q: The ruins of a large complex of shops near the Colosseum that have been called the world's oldest shopping mall is named for what Roman emperor? A: Trajan
Q: What giant corporation headquartered in Vevey, Switzerland was listed as the world's most profitable in 2011 by Fortune? A: Nestlé
Q: The logo of what company has recently been named after the NBA legend Larry Bird? The answer is less than 140 characters! A: Twitter
Q: Created by a Canadian Nobel laureate, a Vickrey auction is one where bidders submit secret written bids and in which the highest bidder wins, but the price paid is that of what? A: Second-highest bid
Q: The executive Malcolm T. Stamper is best known for leading 50,000 people in a huge plant at Everett, Washington in the 1960s for the construction of what engineering marvel? A: Boeing 747
Q: If Manhattan is the financial hub of New York, the area of Pudong is the similar equivalent for which city? A: Shanghai
Q: What giant that operates as Asda in the United Kingdom, Seiyu in Japan and Best Price in India is also the biggest private employer in the world? A: Walmart
Q: Since the 1960s, what advertising objects come in three models called GZ-19, GZ-20 and GZ-22? A: Goodyear blimps
Q: "The discovery of Metallica's song ""I Disappear"" on a file sharing network in 2000 started a chain of events that led to the demise of the original incarnation of what company?" A: Napster
Q: Arthur's Day refers to events first organised in 2009 to celebrate the 250th anniversary of what brewing company, the name Arthur being the first name of the founder? A: Guinness
Q: In 2010, which company reportedly bought the domain name of a farm bureau for $8.5 million, clearly interested in the F and the B? A: Facebook
Q: Which American tycoon and publisher of a magazine was known for his lavish life-style that included a collection of special shape hot air balloons? A: Malcolm Forbes
Q: What is the name of the oil rig that sank and caused the largest offshore oil spill in US history and gave BP a bad rep in 2010? A: Deepwater Horizon
Q: Which dot-com company that had its heyday in the 90s is credited with the development of the Secure Sockets Layer Protocol for secure online communication as well as with JavaScript? A: Netscape
Q: Which company/product connected with transportation is associated with the immensely successful 'Think Small' ad campaign? A: Volkswagen
Q: Which 400-year-old German dynasty from Essen is known for the industrial production of steel and armaments and has been known as the 'Arsenal of the Reich'? A: Krupp family
Q: Which influential author of Economics: An Introductory Analysis, the largest-selling economics textbook of all time is also the first American to win the Nobel Prize for Economics? A: Paul Samuelson
Q: In 1984, while filming a commercial for which company did Michael Jackson suffer second degree burns after pyrotechnics set his hair on fire? A: Pepsi Cola
Q: Appropriately, which company's NYSE symbol is 'BID'? A: Sotheby's
Q: The children's literature section of the publisher Penguin Books works under what name? A: Puffin Books
Q: The American inventor Douglas Engelbart is best known for inventing which ubiquitous 'clicking' device? A: Computer mouse
Q: What is the title of the landmark television commercial that launched the Apple Macintosh in the US in January 1984? A: 1984
Q: Which company was responsible for the Bhopal disaster in 1984 that is frequently cited as the world's worst industrial disaster? A: Union Carbide
Q: The name of which company is supposedly derived from the transcandental god of Zoraastrianism? A: Mazda
Q: Harald ___ Gromson was the king of Denmark in the 10th century and is regarded as having united Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. How is his name popular in the technological world? A: Bluetooth
Q: What is the all time bestselling car in the world? A: Toyota Corolla
Q: In the 1970s, 'The Chicago Boys' were a group of 25 economists working under which South American dictator's administration to create a free market economy? A: Augusto Pinochet
Q: Marshall McLuhan was named as the 'patron saint' of which magazine that had his quote on its masthead for the first ten years of its publication? A: Wired
Q: What 'nuclear' nickname was given to Jack Welch in the 1980s for eliminating employees while leaving the office buildings intact? A: Neutron Jack
Q: The design of Nike's Air Jordan basketball shoe was reportedly inspired by which deadly African slithering creature? A: Black mamba
Q: Composer Frode Fjellheim was praised by Norway's president in a New Year's speech for his contribution to what 2013 hit film that amply features elements of the country's native culture? A: Frozen
Q: If you see the name of the organization American Humane Association in the credits of a movie or a television show, what 4-word phrase are you also most likely to see? A: """No Animals Were Harmed"""
Q: Performers called benshi in Japan provided what service to film-goers particularly in the days of silent cinema? A: Live narration
Q: What 1956 film was to be called The Reno Brothers when a hit song passing the one million sales mark was noticed by the producers causing a change in the title? A: Love Me Tender
Q: Reginald Rose was once part of a jury that debated a manslaughter case for eight hours. This incident inspired him to create what drama that has seen multiple adaptations? A: Twelve Angry Men
Q: In the 1983 thriller WarGames, the protagonists prevent nuclear war by directing a computer to play what game against itself? A: Tic-tac-toe
Q: The Sapphire Affair of 1962 connected with the Cuban Missile Crisis was the basis of what similarly titled 1969 Hitchcock thriller? A: Topaz
Q: In what film does General George Marshall read the Bixby letter, a real-life missive sent by Abraham Lincoln to a bereaved mother of five sons, before flagging off the titular mission? A: Saving Private Ryan
Q: Introducing what eventual Best Picture winner at the 76th Academy Awards ceremony in 2004 did host Billy Crystal quip that it received eleven nominations, one for each ending? A: Return of the King
Q: What 3-word term is given to the genre of kitschy Italian films of the mid 20th century that sought to emulate the historic epics of Hollywood like Spartacus? A: Sword-and-sandal
Q: The 1994 book Lost Moon is the basis of what subsequent year's Hollywood hit? A: Apollo 13
Q: In which 2008 movie of Clint Eastwood are the Hmong people prominently featured? A: Gran Torino
Q: In Caddyshack, Bill Murray as Carl Spackler fantasizes winning the Masters golf tournament while comparing himself to which character in his monologue? A: Cinderella
Q: In The Motorcycle Diaries, at what location does Che Guevera muse how a civilization capable of creating such beauty could be destroyed by the creators of the urban decay of a nearby city? A: Machu Picchu
Q: "The 1952 movie Bwana Devil that had on its poster the lines ""A lion is in your lap!"" and ""A lover is in your arms!"" is known for sparking what craze?" A: 3-D
Q: A 1999 movie starring Peter O'Toole as Father Damien had the name of what island of the Hawaiian archipelago as its title? A: Molokai
Q: What phrase used by Jack London in John Barleycorn to describe alcoholism was later referenced in Dumbo when the elephant hallucinates after drinking water spiked with champagne? A: Seeing pink elephants
Q: What connects Martin Scorsese to the names The Dead Rabbits, The Daybreak Boys, and The Whyos (among others)? A: Gangs of New York
Q: A sword called Green Destiny occupies a prominent spot in the story of what 2000 world-wide hit movie? A: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon
Q: "The executive producer of what 2004 biopic stated that the main character in the movie ""is more akin to Jack Kerouac or Neal Cassady than Marx or Lenin""?" A: The Motorcycle Diaries
Q: In 1995, two Stanford researchers came up with a selected list of film clips able to elicit a single emotion. What 1989 film's scene that takes place in Katz's Delicatessen was the top-rated clip for amusement? (hint: what was she really having?) A: When Harry Met Sally
Q: If The Quiet American (2002) is to Vietnam, The Killing Fields (1984) is to Cambodia, then The Year of Living Dangerously (1982) is to what country? A: Indonesia
Q: What invention of Garrett Brown that 'smoothens' movie viewing experience saw its debut in Bound for Glory and subsequently in the chase scenes of Marathon Man? A: Steadicam
Q: "The English actress Diana Dors once called herself ""the only sex symbol Britain has produced since"" which person? No peeping or you'll go blind." A: Lady Godiva
Q: What Hitchcock classic is said to use the Madonna-whore complex to represent a lead figure, the same woman simultaneously representing virtue and debasement? A: Vertigo (1958)
Q: The 1985 Japanese comedy Tampopo was publicized as not sphagetti, but what type of western? A: Ramen
Q: Cheoah Dam in North Carolina was the real-life location of the 'dive scene' in what 1993 movie in which the protagonist is wrongly accused of murder? A: The Fugitive
Q: Pintel and Ragetti are a recurring comedy pair in a 2000s adventure film franchise set on high seas. What possession of Ragetti that is repeatedly hit by a fork is he usually seen to be searching for? A: Wooden eye
Q: The producer of what 1970s film wanted to call it The Sidewalk Vigilante as he felt the title (which stayed) was too morbid? A: Death Wish
Q: For an American Express ad, Tiger Woods once donned the role of Carl Spackler, a character from what 1980 comedy set at the Bushwood Country Club? A: Caddyshack
Q: The 2-word title of what 2005 documentary about the moon landings comes from how Buzz Aldrin described the moonscape while conversing with Neil Armstrong? A: Magnificent Desolation
Q: Called the biggest regular cultural event on the African continent, FESPACO, the largest African film festival takes place in the capital of which country? (hint: formerly Upper Volta) A: Burkina Faso
Q: Rick Baker won the inaugural Oscar award for make-up for his showcasing of beastly transformation in which 1981 John Landis' cult classic? A: An American Werewolf in London
Q: "After the duet ""Sull'aria...che soave zeffiretto"" from The Marriage of Figaro plays on loudspeakers in a film, a voice-over goes: ""I have no idea to this day what those two Italian ladies were singing about. [...] I'd like to think they were singing about something so beautiful it can't be expressed in words, and it makes your heart ache because of it. [...] It was like some beautiful bird flapped into our drab little cage and made these walls dissolve away, and for the briefest of moments, every last man in ___ felt free."" What is the missing word?" A: """Shawshank"""
Q: Editor Thelma Schoonmaker's successful collaboration with which director fetched her three Oscars in 1980, 2004 and 2006? (hint: the director won only once till date in one of these years) A: Martin Scorsese
Q: In 1978 following a public campaign to restore it, the following nine gave $27,777 for each of its components: Terrence Donnelly, Giovanni Mazza (Italian movie producer), Les Kelley, Gene Autry, Hugh Hefner, Andy Williams, Warner Bros. Records, Alice Cooper and Thomas Pooley. It was a campaign to preserve what nine letter symbol? A: Hollywood sign
Q: What frightening sci-fi film character, also called a xenomorph, was designed by H. R. Giger from a lithograph titled Necronom IV? A: Alien
Q: The set piece of what classic 1955 one-word French film is a 30-min heist scene filmed in near silence and which has inspired real crimes around the world? A: Rififi
Q: In 1954 the British genius Alan Turing was found dead with a half-eaten apple next to his body. Although the apple was not tested for cyanide, the cause of his death was established as cyanide poisoning. It was suggested that Turing was re-enacting a scene from which 1937 film that was based on his favorite (and universally loved) fairy tale? A: Snow White
Q: The main setting in what 1994 classic is modeled after Hell's Gate National Park in Kenya where crew members of the film spent time to study on the film's setting and observe the animals? A: The Lion King
Q: According to imdb.com, the title of what Michael Douglas 1984 hit that is set in South America refers to a step in the preparation of a gem for use in jewelry? A: Romancing the Stone
Q: The 1998 Canadian movie The Red Violin that traces the story of a mysterious violin across Vienna, Oxford, Shanghai, and Montreal starts off in what Italian location? A: Cremona
Q: What video-distribution company known for standardizing features like letterbox ratio, bonus features, and special editions started in 1984 with the releases of Citizen Kane and King Kong? A: Criterion Collection
Q: In June 2011, FBI arrested Boston mob boss James 'Whitey' Bulger near Los Angeles after a 16 year manhunt. He was the inspiration behind the character of Frank Costello in which Oscar-winning film? A: The Departed
Q: What 1920 horror classic from Germany that tells the story of a doctor and his sidekick Cesare in the village of Holstenwall is said to have introduced the concept of twist ending in cinema? A: The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari
Q: What runs for about 1.3 miles on Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street in Los Angeles county and is said to attract 10 million tourists every year? A: Hollywood Walk of Fame
Q: The Bengali films Pratidwandi, Seemabaddha and Jana Aranya directed by the Oscar winning Satyajit Ray are known as the trilogy of what Indian city to which he was strongly associated? A: Calcutta
Q: The authentic Nazi submarine used in Raiders of the Lost Ark was rented from the production of what 1981 epic war film that tells the fictional story of the crew of U-boat U-96? A: Das Boot
Q: Paul Brickhill, an Australian pilot during WWII was shot down over Tunisia and became a POW in Germany; his experiences at the camp, which not every Tom, Dick or Harry could have had were dramatized in what 1963 'break-out' drama? A: The Great Escape
Q: The 1973 Japanese film Lady Snowblood that is about a woman seeking vengeance upon her parents' killers was the inspiration behind what 2000s 2-part blockbuster? A: Kill Bill
Q: The title of what poignant 1971 drama film set in Anarene, Texas refers to the fact of the town's only cinema closing forever? A: The Last Picture Show
Q: "Which 1992 romantic-thriller that had two Oscar nominated songs in ""I Have Nothing"" and ""Run to You"" has spawned the best-selling movie soundtrack of all time?" A: The Bodyguard
Q: "What Oscar nominated 2010 movie was adapted from the book The Accidental Billionaires and advertised with the tagline ""You don't get to 500 million friends without making a few enemies""?" A: The Social Network
Q: The 1996 movie The Evening Star starring Shirley MacLaine who reprises the role of Aurora Greenway is a sequel to which Oscar-winning movie of the 1980s? A: Terms of Endearment
Q: Hammer Film Productions, the British company which made a series films from the mid-1950s until the 1970s is best known for which genre? A: Horror
Q: Which 1979 Russian movie that tells the story of three women who come to the titular city was watched by Ronald Reagan prior to his meetings with Mikhail Gorbachev in order for him to gain a better understanding of the 'Russian soul'? A: Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears
Q: The 2009 biographical film The Last Station starring Christopher Plummer and Helen Mirren is about the last year in the life of which literary figure who died in 1910 at Astapovo train station? A: Leo Tolstoy
Q: What 1997 science fiction drama that deals with eugenics takes its title from a combination of the initial letters of the four DNA bases of Adenine, Cytosine, Guanine, and Thymine? A: Gattaca
Q: Which 2001 film is based on the story Super-Toys Last All Summer Long by Brian Aldiss that deals with the age of machines where child creation is controlled? A: A.I. Artificial Intelligence
Q: If you are given the words - City Slickers and push-ups, can you name the person? A: Jack Palance
Q: The title of what classic 1959 French film that details the life of a troubled adolescent named Antoine Doinel refers to an expression 'faire les quatre cents coups' which means 'to raise hell'? A: The 400 Blows
Q: Directed by Baz Luhrmann, the three films Strictly Ballroom (1992), William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Moulin Rouge! are called as what type of trilogy referring to their theatrical motifs? A: Red Curtain trilogy
Q: In what 1949 classic English comedy from Ealing Studios does Alec Guinness play 8 roles? A: Kind Hearts and Coronets
Q: With 11 wins and 34 nominations, which country holds the record for most honors in the Best Foreign Film category at the Oscars (as of 2009)? A: France
Q: Which French comedian is best known for his portrayal of an irascible Italian village priest at war with the town's Communist mayor in the Don Camillo series of motion pictures? A: Fernandel
Q: Which classic 1966 film by Gillo Pontecorvo was shown in the Pentagon in 2003 with the flyer reading as follows? How to win a battle against terrorism and lose the war of ideas. Children shoot soldiers at point-blank range. Women plant bombs in cafes. Soon the entire Arab population builds to a mad fervor. Sound familiar? The French have a plan. It succeeds tactically, but fails strategically. To understand why, come to a rare showing of this film. A: The Battle of Algiers
Q: What series of documentary films directed by Michael Apted follow the lives of fourteen British children since 1964, when they were seven years old? A: Up Series
Q: David Chase, the creator of which super-hit TV series called the movie Goodfellas his inspiration? A: The Sopranos
Q: It's not just the title, even the profits were corpulent. What ethnic 2002 romantic comedy is the highest-grossing film to never have been number one on the weekly North American box-office charts? A: My Big Fat Greek Wedding
Q: Mehran Karimi Nasseri, an Iranian refugee who lived in the departure lounge of the Charles de Gaulle Airport from 1988 until 2006 may have been the inspiration behind what 2004 movie? A: The Terminal
Q: The title of which 2003 movie comes from the work of Dr. Duncan MacDougall who sought to measure the weight purportedly lost by a human body when the soul departed it upon death? A: 21 Grams
Q: In The Matrix films, the hovercraft of Morpheus is named after which ancient ruler of Babylon? A: Nebuchadnezzar
Q: A landmark legislation in the 1930s in the US that is designed to protect a child actor's earnings by depositing some of them in trust funds was named after which 'kid'? A: Jackie Coogan
Q: What 2004 sci-fi film starring Vin Diesel that was a sequel to Pitch Black received poor reviews from critics who called it 'riddickulous'? A: The Chronicles of Riddick
Q: In the 1984 adventure film Romancing the Stone set in Columbia, what type of precious mineral is the stone? A: Emerald
Q: While shooting a movie in 1981, Warren Beatty lectured his extras on the capitalist exploitation of labour, attempting to inspire them. A magazine called it the 4th dumbest decision in movie history because the extras went on strike, demanding higher wages! What film was Beatty making? A: Reds
Q: What 2005 movie starring Nicole Kidman and Sean Penn that deals with African politics has been banned by President Mugabe of Zimbabwe? A: The Interpreter
Q: Which 1975 cult movie has taken in over $139 million since its release making it the highest grossing movie to have never played in more than 1,000 theatres at the same time? A: The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: On which 1953 film poster are Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr sharing a passionate kiss on a beach? A: From Here to Eternity
Q: "Referring to a character in which film did Malcolm X say ""When Butterfly McQueen went into her act, I felt like crawling under the rug""?" A: Gone with the Wind
Q: Which 1972 movie musical has the distinction of winning the most Oscars (eight) without winning the Best Picture award? A: Cabaret
Q: In 1966, which scientist was asked to contribute an interview to a proposed introduction to the film 2001: A Space Odyssey? He wasn't offered billions and billions though! A: Carl Sagan
Q: In the movie Rain Man, what airline does Raymond insist on flying as it has a perfect safety record? A: Qantas
Q: Spoiler alert. Skip this question if you haven't seen The Shawshank Redemption. In the climax of that movie, which bombshell's poster does warden Norton rip to reveal the secret behind the escape of Andy Dufresne? A: Raquel Welch
Q: Which 1985 film starring Tom Hanks, Rita Wilson, and John Candy has a cult following among many generations of Peace Corps personnel? A: Volunteers
Q: "When he won an Oscar for Philadelphia, Tom Hanks gave a speech thanking two people and inspired the 1997 comedy In and Out. What is the missing word in the following excerpt from the speech? ""... two of the finest ___ Americans, two wonderful men that I had the good fortune to be associated with ...""" A: """gay"""
Q: Burkittsville in Maryland, USA gained notoriety in 1999 after the release of which 'fake real' film that supposedly took place there? A: The Blair Witch Project
Q: Tataouine in Tunisia was the setting for many scenes in the movies of which blockbuster franchise? A: Star Wars franchise
Q: What 2000 film tells the fictional story of a teenage journalist writing for the Rolling Stone magazine while covering the rock band Stillwater? A: Almost Famous
Q: Which epic 1960s film is unique in the sense that the only female featured in the entire film is a camel named Gladys? A: Lawrence of Arabia
Q: Devil's Tower National Monument in Wyoming, USA features prominently in which landmark 1977 science fiction film? A: Close Encounters of the Third Kind
Q: A flatbread called injera that is traditionally eaten in Ethiopia is made from the flour of what grain that is now being called as the new quinoa? A: Teff
Q: Compiled in the late 4th or early 5th century AD and sure to delight gourmets, what is Apicius? A: Collection of Roman cookery recipes
Q: The consumption of Touareg tea which is tea flavored with which herb is widely prevalent in several Arab countries? A: Mint
Q: Englishman Albert Howard who had publications like Manufacture of Humus by the Indore Process among others is considered a pioneer of what? A: Organic agriculture
Q: Just like Americans like to call a full-course meal 'from soup to nuts', citizens of the Roman empire used the expression 'from the egg to the ___' what? A: Apple
Q: Water-bath and pressure are two types of techniques for food preservation in what process? A: Canning
Q: The Cypriot dish ambelopoulia that is the subject of much controversy in the country is made from what? A: Songbirds
Q: In 2011, the Trinidad Moruga Scorpion upended the Naga Bhut Jolokia for what culinary distinction? A: World's hottest chili pepper
Q: The 18th century English nobleman John Montagu who was so fond of gambling that he played even while eating was the earl of what town in Kent? A: Sandwich
Q: If 'single malt' describes a whisky made at one distillery, what is the word for a wine that is made from a single grape type? A: Varietal
Q: The name of what distinctive Nordic dish translates as 'buried salmon'? A: Gravlax
Q: Pule cheese, said to be the world's most expensive was in the news in Dec 2012 when Novak Djokovic bought the world's supply for his restaurant chain. It is made from the milk of what animal? A: Donkey
Q: What fried street food popular with vegetarians is claimed by the Copts of Egypt as their invention to be a replacement for meat during Lent? A: Falafel
Q: What meat dish got its name when a chef got an order for raw meat and remembered a Venetian painter whose work was dominated by reds and yellows? A: Carpaccio
Q: Edmond Albius, a 19th century slave working on the island of Réunion is known for inventing the pollination technique for the cultivation of what flavoring delight? A: Vanilla
Q: Yamadanishiki, Gohyakumangoku, Miyamanishiki and Omachi are the popular varieties of rice used for making what? A: Sake
Q: What popular condiment in which egg yolk is the chief emulsifier originates from it being called as the 'sauce of Mahon'? A: Mayonnaise
Q: What salad made from mozzarella cheese, tomatoes and basil is also the name of the town in Tuscany where Michelangelo was born? A: Caprese
Q: Claret is the name used in England for red wine from what region of France that is also the capital of Aquitaine? A: Bordeaux
Q: The four main types of what luxury delicacy are Beluga, Sterlet, Ossetra, and Sevruga? A: Caviar
Q: According to the book The History of Science and Technology, the origin of what snack can be traced to the shape of folded arms of children in prayer? A: Pretzels
Q: The French Paradox is the observation that the French suffer a relatively low incidence of heart disease, despite having a diet rich in saturated fats. After a description of it aired on 60 Minutes in 1991, there was a significant spurt in the sale of what item? A: Red wine
Q: In 1981, in a move that met with considerable controversy, the Agriculture Department in the US proposed classifying pickle relish and what other condiment as vegetables in order to save money on school lunch programs? A: Ketchup
Q: What Chinese dipping sauce that is common in Cantonese cuisine derives its name from a word meaning 'seafood' (though it contains none)? A: Hoisin
Q: What is the term for the food preparation in which an ingredient, usually in a shallow dish, is topped with a browned crust? A: Gratin
Q: What vegetable that is also called a Swedish turnip is avoided by many older Germans as they consider it 'famine food'? A: Rutabaga
Q: Because they spoil at high temperatures, what were once assumed to be safe for eating only in the months with the letter 'r' in their English/French names? A: Oysters
Q: What is the better known 'national' name of the confection called lokum that is a gel of starch and sugar with nuts usually mixed in? A: Turkish delight
Q: Which hazelnut liqueur comes in a bottle with a knotted white cord around its waist that is meant to mimic the religious garments of a friar? A: Frangelico
Q: What term used by California wineries denotes red and white Bordeaux-style wines and is intended to not infringe on the 'heritage' of Bordeaux's legally protected designation of origin? A: Meritage
Q: 'Umami' is a Japanese word that translates as 'good flavor' and is used as a fifth category of what by those who think that the existing four basic categories are insufficient? A: Taste
Q: Which potent potable acquired the nickname 'Nelson's Blood' as Lord Nelson's body was purportedly placed in it for preservation after the Battle of Trafalgar (1805)? A: Rum
Q: In early 2014, Prof. Maryam Mirzakhani achieved a unique and highly meritorious distinction. What subject does she teach at Stanford University? A: Mathematics
Q: Since doctors are meant to 'cure-all', the first line of the Hippocratic oath appropriately mentions what other goddess along with Apollo, Aesculapius, and Hygeia? A: Panacea
Q: Travis Tygart was chiefly instrumental in leading the expose of whom, now a fallen hero, in 2012? A: Lance Armstrong
Q: Who created the comic strip called Dykes to Watch Out For which featured in 1985 a character who watches a movie only if it has two women who talk to each other about something besides a man? A: (Alison) Bechdel
Q: A group of people in Cairo, Egypt who are collectively called the Zabbaleen are known for their association with what material? A: Garbage
Q: Bicycle mechanic Charlie Taylor is best known for his collaboration with which two gentlemen in the early part of the 20th century? A: Wright brothers
Q: The legendary Pera Palace Hotel in Istanbul, also the site where an all-time great mystery novel was conceived, was built in 1892 for passengers who arrived in the city by what specific transport? A: Orient Express
Q: What one word connects the following? 1. In a certain comics universe, the dimension in which criminals are held in a state of suspended animation. 2. Lee Falk's popular creation with the nickname The Ghost Who Walks. 3. Erik, who haunts the Paris Opera House. A: Phantom
Q: The Montreal Convention signed by several countries in 1999 concerns rules surrounding the compensation for the victims of what? (hint: likely to be in focus till an object missing since 8th March 2014 is found) A: Air disasters
Q: Labour Party politician Aneurin Bevan is known for his role in establishing what seminal institution in Great Britain? A: National Health Service
Q: Photographer Walter Iooss who also shoots swimsuit models among others is known for his contributions to which magazine? A: Sports Illustrated
Q: Try your 'fortune' and take a guess. What is the name of the Maltese dog owned by celebrity Wendy Diamond that holds a Guinness record for posing with celebrities? A: Lucky
Q: "The words burcad badeed mean ""ocean robber"" in what African language?" A: Somali
Q: Gilbert Ryle's The Concept of Mind (1949) is a critique of the notion propounded by Descartes that the mind is distinct from the body. What phrase did Ryle famously use to describe his concept? A: """Ghost in the machine"""
Q: A memorable phrase in the annals of American polity, who was called a 'bloviating ignoramus' by columnist George Will in 2012? A: Donald Trump
Q: The Berne Convention of 1886 was an international agreement that established rules governing what? A: Copyright
Q: The names of the command module and lunar module of Apollo 10 were named for the characters of what story that was told in nearly 18,000 strips? A: Peanuts
Q: "Who is the icon of linguistics who composed the sentence ""Colorless green ideas sleep furiously"" to demonstrate the difference between structure and meaning?" A: Noam Chomsky
Q: What was the subject of French sociologist Émile Durkheim's 1897 work that studied Catholic and Protestant populations and that resulted in sociology getting established on its own? A: Suicide
Q: Can you connect the Dalai Lama with Curious George with a colorful 2-word term? A: 'Yellow Hat'
Q: The writing system of Elder Futhark (that was later simplified to Younger Futhark) is the oldest form of what alphabet? A: Runes
Q: Hibakusha is an Asian language term for the people effected by either of what violent incidents? A: Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
Q: Which entity headquartered in Lyon, France is the second largest intergovernmental organization after the UN by member states count (190)? A: Interpol
Q: Pitman, Gregg and Teeline are all forms of what type of 'writing'? A: Shorthand
Q: What type of relationship first explored in Symposium by a famous philosopher was described as 'Christian apology' of Greek love? A: Platonic love
Q: The term 'flensing' is used to describe the processing of what creatures? A: Whales
Q: Imagine a society and decide on its principles for the distribution of rights, positions and resources. You must do this without knowing your position in this society. What is the term for this method of determining the morality of an issue that was first proposed by John Harsanyi and later made famous by John Rawls? A: Veil of ignorance
Q: If traditional Chinese women practiced foot binding, what anatomical feature did the Padaung/Kayan women of Burma seek to highlight? Easy, this is a family site! A: Necks
Q: What nuclear weapon policy was first declared by China in 1964, later adopted by India and North Korea, dropped by Russia in 1993 and has been rejected repeatedly by NATO? A: No first use
Q: According to its chief architect Adrian Smith, the triple lobed footprint of what iconic new millennium construction was inspired by the flower Hymenocallis? A: Burj Khalifa in Dubai
Q: The traje de luces that means 'suit of lights' in its native tongue is the traditional costume of whom? A: Bullfighters
Q: The policy of Songun that emphasizes the role of military guides the political and economic life in what country? A: North Korea
Q: What ubiquitous feature of television sitcoms was invented by sound engineer Charley Douglass who noticed that live audiences were unreliable for providing something? A: Laugh track
Q: Attention megalomaniacs! What theory popularized in the 1840s by Thomas Carlyle states that history can be explained by the impact of just a few? A: Great Man theory
Q: Similar to thread count, mommes are units of weight traditionally used to measure the density of what? A: Silk
Q: What school of philosophy of ancient Greece associated with Aristotle takes its name from a legend that he meandered while lecturing? A: Peripatetic school
Q: Loop, bight, elbow, standing end and working end are the components of what, the varieties of which are the subject of a 1944 encyclopedic work The Ashley Book of ___? A: Knots
Q: The German word ahnentafel is a term for a numbering system used in what particular field? (hint: using it eliminates the need to draw a tree) A: Genealogy
Q: What popular assessment that is based on the theories of Carl Jung was created during WWII to help women identify the type of war-time jobs where they would be 'most comfortable and effective'? A: Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI)
Q: A 2003 book by Gian J. Quasar subtitled Pursuing the Truth Behind the World's Greatest Mystery focuses on a region with vertices at Florida, Puerto Rico and what other island? A: Bermuda
Q: What architectural term originated from the 16th century after Renaissance revived Classical construction and created a perception of past styles as a product of barbarous tribal cultures? A: Gothic
Q: Who is the 1st century BC Roman architect who wrote that the figure of a man can be inscribed both in a circle and a square in his best known work De architectura? A: Vitruvius
Q: Following a famous crime, the United States Congress adopted a statute in 1932 that was dubbed the Lindbergh Law. The legislation made what act a federal offense? A: Kidnapping
Q: In maritime law, what chaste term denotes the passage of a vessel through the territorial waters of another state subject to certain restrictions? A: Innocent passage
Q: In 2008, Islamabad International Airport was renamed as a tribute to which person who passed away in 2007? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: When dissident Liu Xiaobo won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize, a Chinese businessman proposed the creation of an equivalent prize to 'promote world peace from an Eastern perspective.' In whose name was the prize created? (hint: not Buddha) A: Confucius
Q: In a 2005 vote, Father Damien, Jacques Brel, Mercator and Peter Paul Rubens all finished in the top-10 list of the greatest people of what country? A: Belgium
Q: Ahmed Yassin who was killed by an Israeli helicopter gunship in 2004 is best known as the founder of what organization? A: Hamas
Q: Kryptos is a 1990 sculpture by American artist Jim Sanborn that is famous for its four encrypted messages, three of which have been solved. Where is it located? A: Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Langley, Virginia
Q: The JIM suit, which is designed to maintain a pressure of one atmosphere regardless of external conditions is used by members of which profession? A: Diving
Q: Dr. Conrad Murray whose trial started in September 2011 in the US was tried for giving a fatal dose of a sedative to which talented celebrity? A: Michael Jackson
Q: Joseph Rotblat, the only scientist to leave the Manhattan Project on moral grounds co-founded what Nobel Peace Prize winning organization that is named for a Canadian village? A: Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs
Q: What was the Soviet government agency that administered the country's forced labor camps which were compared to 'a chain of islands' by a Nobel Prize winning author? A: Gulag
Q: You've surely heard about the Stockholm syndrome. But what is the opposite of this condition where the hostage takers become more sympathetic to the hostages? It is named after a South American city where it was observed after the Japanese Embassy hostage crisis in 1996. A: Lima syndrome
Q: "What building whose construction started in 1792 was once described by one of its residents as ""... big enough for two emperors, one pope and the grand lama ...""?" A: White House
Q: What is the name of the photograph taken by Voyager 1 of the Earth against the vastness of space which lent itself to the title of a 1994 book by Carl Sagan? A: Pale Blue Dot
Q: A lazaretto which can be an isolated island or a ship at anchor near a harbor is used for what purpose for maritime travelers? A: Quarantine station
Q: In 2007, which celebrity started a charitable organization called SixDegrees.org? A: Kevin Bacon
Q: Which anthropomorphic cartoon character whose parsimony typifies the stereotype of miserly Scotsmen was possibly modeled after the Scottish industrialist Andrew Carnegie? A: Scrooge McDuck
Q: The German pedagogue Friedrich Fröbel who recognized that children have unique needs and capabilities introduced what concept of modern education? A: Kindergarten
Q: In navigation, what is the process of estimating one's current position based upon a previously determined position and advancing it using estimated speed over elapsed time, and course? A: Dead reckoning
Q: While recovering from wounds received in World War I, Dewitt Wallace had the idea to gather a sampling of articles from various publications; this resulted in the birth of what popular magazine? A: Reader's Digest
Q: In December 2010, which country unveiled a new passport design with a picture of a nude Aphrodite on it that raised many eyebrows? (hint: where was Aphrodite born?) A: Cyprus
Q: What ubiquitous font created by designer Vincent Connare was said to have been inspired by the graphic novels The Dark Knight Returns and Watchmen? A: Comic Sans
Q: What is the common name of the computational problem whose task, when given a list of cities and the distances between them is to find the shortest possible tour that visits each city once? A: Travelling salesman problem
Q: Which web application on Yahoo! that translates text between different languages is named after a fictional animal used for a similar purpose in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? A: Babel Fish
Q: Which great philosopher corresponded with Queen Christina of Sweden in his final years and died in 1650 in Stockholm where he had been invited as a teacher for her? A: René Descartes
Q: Biograph Theater in Chicago is notable as the site of the killing of which notorious personality in 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: Groote Schuur estate in South Africa was the site for the signing of a historic agreement between Nelson Mandela and F. W. de Klerk in 1990. The estate originally belonged to which tycoon? A: Cecil Rhodes
Q: Apart from writing Tom Jones, the English author Henry Fielding also founded which the organization the Bow Street Runners which is seen as the first attempt at creating what unit of London? A: Police force
Q: What is the American English term for a voting system in which voters rank candidates in order of preference, most commonly in single-winner elections? A: Instant runoff voting (IRV)
Q: The Dickin Medal that bears the words 'For Gallantry' and 'We Also Serve' was instituted in 1943 by Maria Dickin to honour the work of whom/what in war? A: Animals
Q: "Named for the fictional town in the radio series A Prairie Home Companion, what is the Lake Wobegon effect? (Hint: According to Garrison Keillor, the presenter of the show, here ""all the women are strong, all the men are good-looking, and all the children are above average"")" A: Tendency to overestimate one's achievements and capabilities
Q: What is the correct term for the act of collecting leftover crops from farmers' fields after they have been commercially harvested or on fields where it is not economically profitable to harvest? A: Gleaning
Q: If you were at the home of Joseph Barbara in Apalachin, New York on November 14, 1957, I'd be very wary of you. Who met there? A: American mafia
Q: Located at 1651-1653 Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington, D.C., what is the official state guest house for the President of the United States? A: Blair House
Q: The Bodleian Library, one of the oldest libraries in Europe, is the main research library of which seminal institution? A: University of Oxford
Q: Usually associated with monarchical and aristocratic titles, what is the term for a widow who holds a title or property derived from her deceased husband? A: Dowager
Q: Christine Jorgensen (1926-1989), who was born George William Jorgensen was famous for having been the first wordly-known individual to have undergone what procedure? A: Sex change surgery
Q: What does the Japanese word 'karoshi' translate to, which workaholics must be aware of? A: Death from overwork
Q: The Ryugyong Hotel, a partially constructed concrete skyscraper that was intended to be a hotel was called 'The Worst Building in the History of Mankind' by Esquire in 2008. Where is it located? A: Pyongyang, North Korea
Q: What were found in a cave near Qumran, Jordan by Mohammed Ahmed el-Hamed in 1947 that significantly impacted the world's understanding of religion and history? A: Dead Sea Scrolls
Q: What is the claim to fame of the US millionaire Dennis Tito who soared high and achieved a first of sorts on April 28, 2001? A: First space tourist
Q: In phonetics, what is a sound that is characterized by an open configuration of the vocal tract so that there is no build-up of air pressure above the glottis? A: Vowel
Q: During the 1970s, what name was given to the illegal immigrants/asylum seekers from Vietnam referring to their mode of transport? A: Boat people
Q: What Chan Buddhist monastery in the Henan province of China is best known to the world for its association with martial arts? A: Shaolin
Q: Which Shinto shrine located in Tokyo is dedicated to those who died fighting for the Emperor of Japan and is a source of considerable controversy? A: Yasukuni shrine
Q: Literally 'Practice of the Wheel of Law' in Chinese, what system of mind and body cultivation has been the focus of international attention since the Chinese government began a crackdown on it? A: Falun Gong (or) Falun Dafa
Q: In 1994, Bill Gates bought The Codex Hammer at an auction for $30.8 million, making it the most expensive book ever. Whose writings does it contain? A: Leonardo Da Vinci's
Q: The Thomas Jefferson Building, The John Adams Building and The James Madison Memorial Building in Washington DC together make up what seminal institution? A: Library of Congress
Q: What type of work is 99 Cent II Diptychon by Andreas Gursky which was sold for USD 3.3 million in 2007 and holds the record for the highest price paid for an artifact in that field? A: Photograph
Q: Who once described Tarzan as a major influence on her childhood and said that she would be a much better spouse for him than his fictional wife, Jane? Naturally, she spent time around apes like him! A: Jane Goodall
Q: Presaged by a 1784 letter of Ben Franklin, what concept saw its first widespread use in 1916 as a wartime measure aimed at conserving coal? A: Daylight saving time
Q: If screw-driven steamships generally carry the prefix 'SS' before their names, what type of steamers carry the prefix 'PS'? A: Paddle steamers
Q: Awarded to applicants annually since 1902, the Rhodes Scholarships are for study at what institution? A: University of Oxford
Q: 'Janjaweed', an Arabic word that literally translates to 'devil on a horse' has achieved infamy by its association with a dubious group in which current day crisis in Sudan? A: Darfur conflict
Q: What paleontological hoax takes its name from a place in East Sussex, England where in 1912, discovered bone fragments were thought to be the remains of an unknown form of early man? A: Piltdown Man
Q: Deviating from standard practice, the US patent office has a policy of refusing to grant a patent without a working model for what type of device? A: Perpetual motion machine
Q: Sharbat Gula, an Afghan woman of Pashtun ethnicity achieved world wide fame when her photograph was featured on the cover of which magazine in 1985? A: National Geographic
Q: George Herbert, Earl of Carnarvon (1866-1923) was an English aristocrat best known as the financier for the excavation of what? A: King Tut's tomb
Q: Which US agency has primary jurisdiction over the protection of the President, Vice President and other high ranking government officials? A: Secret Service
Q: A form of government called by the Greek term 'thalassocracy' refers to a state with power in what realm? A: Sea
Q: The name of what versatile product was coined by US soldiers as they couldn't pronounce its original name, 'Offiziersmesser'? A: Swiss Army Knife
Q: """There was a footpath leading across fields to New Southgate, and I used to go there alone to watch the sunset and contemplate suicide. I did not, however, commit suicide, because I wished to know more of mathematics."" Which 20th century philosopher-mathematician wrote this in his autobiography?" A: Bertrand Russell
Q: "Alexander Pope wrote this epitaph for Sir Isaac Newton: ""Nature and nature's laws lay hid in night; God said 'Let Newton be' and all was light."" To the above, Sir John Collings Squire added: ""It did not last: the devil, shouting 'Ho. Let ___ be' restored the status quo."" Whom did the devil add?" A: Einstein
Q: What institution in New Jersey best known as the academic home of Albert Einstein and John von Neumann was established to foster research without the complications of teaching or funding or sponsorship? A: Institute for Advanced Study
Q: Just as The Lord of the Rings franchise gave a major fillip to New Zealand's tourism, the HBO hit Game of Thrones (predominantly) had a similar effect on what part of the world? A: Northern Ireland
Q: In a journal entry of the 19th century, French naturalist Henri Mouhot who explored Southeast Asia compared what site to the pyramids? A: Angkor Wat
Q: In the early days of Atlantic City in NJ, what was constructed to keep tourists from tracking beach sand all over town? A: Boardwalk
Q: Because it switched possession several times between Britain and France over multiple wars, the Caribbean nation of Saint Lucia has been compared to what beautiful person of myth with the sobriquet '... of the West'? A: Helen
Q: What country has the most time zones, with 12? Surprisingly, its not Russia or the US. Think of a country with far-flung territories and dependencies. A: France
Q: The BAM railway (...-Amur Mainline) in remote Russia is named for the Amur river and what other geographic feature? A: Lake Baikal
Q: What is the largest religious denomination for any religion in the world? A: Sunni Islam
Q: Which country has 12% of the world's Muslim population but has not been allowed to join the Organisation of Islamic Conference, mainly due to the efforts of another country? A: India (Pakistan)
Q: In April 2014, which tiny nation became the first East Asian country to adopt Islamic sharia law? A: Brunei
Q: The town of Shibam in the Middle-East is known for its tower brick homes all of which have a minimum height. What country is it located in? A: Yemen
Q: In the world of geography, Scotland's Corryvreckan and Japan's Naruto are two of the noted ones and Old Sow is the largest of all in the Western Hemisphere. What are they? A: Whirlpools
Q: Rarotonga is the most-populated of the group of Pacific Islands named for which explorer? A: James Cook
Q: Not surprisingly, the name for what feature of geography means 'almost an island' in Latin? A: Peninsula
Q: UNESCO's World Heritage List originated in the effort to preserve historic sites that were being affected by the construction of what structure in the 1950s? A: Aswan dam
Q: The fictional Radiator Springs in Pixar's hit Cars is said to be based on several places the crew visited along what iconic American road? A: Route 66
Q: The volcanic island of Surtsey that started forming in the 1960s attracting worldwide scientific attention is nearest to what country? A: Iceland
Q: Mosi-oa-Tunya National Park in Zambia is adjacent with what other park that is also named for a famed attraction? A: Victoria Falls
Q: Going-to-the-Sun Road is a prominent pathway in an American national park named for what geographical feature? A: Glacier
Q: Tafilalt in Morocco, Chebika in Tunisia and Huacachina in Peru are some of what? You are sure to quench your thirst at these locales! A: Oases
Q: Aokigahara forest in Japan is noted as a place where many people go for what purpose? A: Commit suicide
Q: A custom known as the kula exchange or kula ring where great risks are taken to exchange gifts is prevalent in what part of the world? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: A mine in the town of Wieliczka in southern Poland that attracts millions of visitors is known for having produced what for centuries? A: Salt
Q: St. Pauli in Hamburg, Soi Cowboy in Bangkok, De Wallen in Amsterdam and Sonagachi in Kolkata, all of which I've only read about and never visited, are famous as what? A: Red-light districts
Q: Hawaii, Easter Island and New Zealand are the three vertices of a hypothetical triangle used to designate what geographic region/area? A: Polynesia
Q: The Semperoper is the opera house of what European city? (hint: Slaughterhouse-Five) A: Dresden
Q: What waterway of South America that has the name of a robust wine is the largest tributary of Amazon? A: Madeira river
Q: The Semien Mountains whose highest peak is Ras Dashen lie in what African country? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Galata bridge spans what water body that is part of the Bosphorous strait and that has been a subject of numerous works of art? A: Golden Horn
Q: What is the only U.S. state flag to feature the Union Jack? A: Hawaii
Q: The northern component of what enchanting geographic term is accepted as the Rock of Gibraltar but the southern component disputed and at various times claimed as Monte Hacho (in Ceuta) or Jebel Musa (in Morocco)? A: Pillars of Hercules
Q: The Muslim observance of Arba'een attracts millions of visitors annually to what Iraqi city? A: Karbala
Q: Aguada, Varca, Vagator, Colva, Calangute, and Anjuna are some of the beaches in what state of India known for its Portuguese influence and for its spicy vindaloo? A: Goa
Q: Geographic features called rilles that come in sinuous, arcuate and straight types are a prominent part of the landscape where? A: Moon
Q: Fans of the band The Clash should know that what word meaning 'citadel' in Arabic refers to any walled enclosure but is mostly used for a specific area of Algiers? A: Casbah
Q: Petaloudes Valley, whose name translates to Valley of the Butterflies in Greek is a tourist attraction of what 'wondrous' Dodecanese island? A: Rhodes
Q: The historic Charles Bridge that crosses the Vlatava river connects which city's castle to its old town? A: Prague
Q: The Hiram Bingham luxury train has what magnificent location as its destination? A: Machu Picchu
Q: The 2000-yr old Banaue rice terraces built largely by hand in the Ifugao mountains that cover 4000 square miles are in which country? A: The Philippines
Q: Of the twenty two members of the Arab league, only three maintain diplomatic relations with Israel. They are Egypt, Palestine and what other country? A: Jordan
Q: A rock called Heel Stone that measures 16 feet above the ground and whose previous names include Friar's Heel and Sun-stone lies outside the main entrance to what monument? A: Stonehenge
Q: Tourists to the town of Oświęcim in Poland are most likely headed to see what? A: Auschwitz
Q: When the pioneering English settler John Smith explored the coastline of the region north of Virginia in 1614, what did he call the area? A: New England
Q: If all the languages of the world are listed by the highest number of speakers, what is the first name that is not an official language of the UN? A: Hindi
Q: In the list of 25 countries ordered by the highest number of Spanish speakers, what is the only name that is not from the western hemisphere? A: The Philippines
Q: What region in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region is the site of China's nuclear weapons tests? A: Lop Nur
Q: Marangu, Rongai, Lemosho, Shira, Umbwe and Machame are the six official trekking routes for what 'uplifting' activity? A: Climbing Mount Kilimanjaro
Q: The Propylaea, which has now come to mean any gateway, was originally an entrance to what magnificent ancient construction? A: Acropolis in Athens
Q: What city that is home to Africa's tallest building (the Carlton Centre) is the largest city in the world not on a lake, navigable river or by the coast? A: Johannesburg
Q: The name of what able-bodied ethnic group from the mountain regions of Nepal means 'people of the east' in Tibetan? A: Sherpa
Q: What region of China that has a border checkpoint called Posto Fronteiriço das Portas do Cerco ('Frontier Post of the Border Gate' in Portuguese) is both the first and last European colony in that country? A: Macau
Q: The visa that makes travel easy within twenty-six countries of Europe takes its name from an agreement signed in 1985 in what city of Luxembourg? A: Schengen
Q: What Bolivian city lies beneath a mountain dubbed the Cerro Rico ('rich mountain') named so for its famed mines that were a major source of silver for the Spanish Empire of the New World? A: Potosí
Q: Mashair Railway that opened in 2010 connecting the sites of Mina, Muzdalifah and Mount Arafat serves the visitors of what city? A: Mecca (metro)
Q: The Maasai Mara National Reserve in Kenya is contiguous with what famed national park of Tanzania? A: Serengeti
Q: What second-most populous nation in Africa is also the most populous landlocked nation in the world? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Wagah border often called the 'Berlin wall of Asia' is the only road border crossing between what two countries? A: India and Pakistan
Q: Which city's site was said to have been chosen by monks following the principles of feng shui for King Taejo, founder of the Joseon/Choson dynasty in 1394? A: Seoul
Q: The script of Thuluth, a variety of Islamic calligraphy, is seen on the flag of what country? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: What NATO country with a unique geographic position is the only one with no standing army? No navy either! A: Iceland
Q: Because of changes in the political geography of Africa in 2011, what is now the largest country in that continent? A: Algeria
Q: The Kagera river that became known for carrying bodies from the Rwandan Genocide in 1994 is the largest single inflow into what body of water? A: Lake Victoria
Q: Cape Churchill in Wapusk National Park, Canada is renowned as the best location in the world to view what? A: Polar bears
Q: The economic grouping acronym BRIC that referred to Brazil, Russia, India and China was changed to BRICS in 2011 to include what country? A: South Africa
Q: With an average ground level of 1.5 meters above sea level, what Asian island nation is the lowest country in the world? (hint: it is also the smallest Asian country in both population and land area) A: Maldives
Q: What wild American feature begins at Springer Mountain in Georgia and ends at Katahdin in Maine for a total distance of 2,175 miles? A: Appalachian Trail
Q: Francophonie is an international organization of 56 member states where there is a notable affiliation with the French language. What is the largest country in this group? A: Canada
Q: The artificial Gatun Lake that was created between 1907 and 1913 forms a major component of what water body? A: Panama Canal
Q: A funnel cloud is nothing but condensed water droplets associated with a rotating column of wind which extends from the base of a cloud without touching the ground. If it touches the ground, what is it called? A: Tornado
Q: Primorsky Stairs, a stairway of 192 steps immortalized in film lore, is a formal entrance from the direction of the Black Sea into which European city? A: Odessa
Q: Juba is the capital of what autonomous African region that became an independent country on 9th July, 2011? A: South Sudan
Q: The plateau 'Cappadocia' with its spectacular landscapes, caves, and fairy chimneys is a popular tourist attraction of which country? A: Turkey
Q: In Jan 2011, Sri Lanka decided to discard all references to what British colonial name of the country from its state institutions? A: Ceylon
Q: The novel as well as the movie Girl with a Pearl Earring based on painter Vermeer's work was set in which Dutch city also known for its pottery? A: Delft
Q: Which scale that is used for measuring the intensity of an earthquake (not Richter!) quantifies its effects on humans, objects of nature, and man-made structures on a scale of I through XII with XII denoting total destruction? A: Mercalli intensity scale
Q: Located just 508 miles from the North Pole, Alert is said to be the northernmost permanently inhabited place in the world. In which Canadian province/territory is it located? A: Nunavut
Q: Which magnificent Tibetan landmark escaped damage during the Cultural Revolution of China in 1966 through the personal intervention of Zhou Enlai? A: Potala Palace
Q: The Merlion, an imaginary creature with the head of a lion and the body of a fish, is used as the mascot of which tiny Asian island nation? A: Singapore
Q: According to UNESCO, which Ethiopian city is considered 'the fourth holy city' of Islam with 82 mosques, three of which date from the 10th century, and 102 shrines? A: Harar
Q: Which land-locked country has the most official languages in the world at 34 including Spanish, Aymara and Quechua? A: Bolivia
Q: The US think tank Fund For Peace comes out with a Failed States Index every year. Which country topped the list for a fourth consecutive year in 2011? A: Somalia
Q: Which tiny European nation claims itself to be the oldest recorded sovereign state and constitutional republic in the world? A: San Marino
Q: If water bodies were left out and only land area were considered, what is the second largest country in the world after Russia? A: China
Q: Landseer's Lions, a set of four sculptures of lions surround which London monument? A: Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square
Q: 'Pha That Lung', a large gold-covered Buddhist stupa is regarded as the most important monument and national symbol in which landlocked Asian country? A: Laos
Q: Located in Micronesia and covering just 21 square kilometres, what is the world's smallest island nation? A: Nauru
Q: Distributed across the three islands of Tutuila, Ofu-Olosega, and Ta‘ū, what is the only American national park located south of the equator? A: National Park of American Samoa
Q: Which French city is home to the Palais des Papes (Palace of the Popes) where several popes and antipopes lived from the early 14th to early 15th centuries? A: Avignon
Q: Bordered on three sides by Senegal and with a small coast on the Atlantic Ocean in the west, what is the smallest country on mainland Africa? A: The Gambia
Q: The largest impact over land in Earth's recent history, how is the explosion that occurred in 1908 near the namesake river in Siberia commonly known? A: Tunguska event
Q: Located in northeast Caribbean, what is the smallest inhabited sea island that is divided between two nations? A: Saint Martin
Q: During the apartheid era, what was the name for the territory set aside for black inhabitants of South Africa and South West Africa (now Namibia) of which ten were established? A: Bantustan
Q: Which prominent mountain has three volcanic cones called Kibo, Mawenzi, and Shira? A: Kilimanjaro
Q: The 19th century civic planner Baron Haussman is associated with the rebuilding of which city? A: Paris
Q: The Lake Mungo remains consisting of two fossils known as Mungo Lady and Mungo Man are located in the World Heritage listed Willandra Lakes Region of which country? A: Australia
Q: With a total drop of 948 meters (3,110 feet) in five free-leaping falls, Tugela Falls is the world's second highest waterfall. They are located in the Drakensberg (Dragon's Mountains) range in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which Spanish city, now home to a great mosque was probably the most populated city in Europe and perhaps in the world in the later half of the 10th century? A: Córdoba
Q: When combined with its headstreams the 'Peace' and the 'Finlay', what becomes the second longest river in North America at 4,241 kilometres (2,635 mi)? A: Mackenzie
Q: The Sigsbee Deep, named for the captain of the USS Maine which exploded in the harbor of Havana in 1898 is the deepest part of which body of water? A: Gulf of Mexico
Q: Which country has the longest coastline in Africa? A: Somalia
Q: Which Chilean city whose name comes from the Spanish for 'sandy point' is sometimes considered the southernmost city in the world? A: Punta Arenas
Q: Which South Pacific territory named for its shores' similarities to the Scottish coastline will hold a referendum on independence from France between 2014 and 2019? A: New Caledonia
Q: Based on a 1995 realignment of the International Date Line, which Oceanic country with it's capital at South Tarawa is now the easternmost country in the world? A: Kiribati
Q: Which major German seaport on the Baltic sea was for several centuries the capital of the Hanseatic League and was also known as 'Queen of the Hanse'? A: Lübeck
Q: McMurdo Station can support only 1258 residents but is still considered as the largest community in what part of the world? A: Antarctica
Q: Due to its location in a time zone to the east of Europe, which French island in the Indian Ocean was the first region in the world where the euro became legal tender? A: Réunion
Q: Which coast off the Atlantic Ocean of Namibia and Angola is named for the bleached whale and seal bones which covered the shore during the days of the whaling industry as well as for the shipwrecks caused by rocks? A: Skeleton Coast
Q: Cape Horn, the southernmost tip of South America is on which archipelago that translates as 'land of fire' in Spanish? A: Tierra del Fuego
Q: Completely bordered by France on three sides, what is the world's most densely populated sovereign country as well as the smallest French-speaking country? A: Monaco
Q: The name of which Central Asian mountain range where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together and where the mighty rivers Irtysh, Ob and Yenisei have their sources literally means 'mountains of gold' in Turkic? A: Altai
Q: Scania, Zealand and Jutland have historically been the three lands of which country/kingdom? A: Denmark
Q: Which island, the third largest in the world, is divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei? A: Borneo
Q: Since all time zones converge at the South Pole, there is no reason for placing it in any particular time zone. But as a practical convenience, the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station keeps the time of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: From the Greek for 'going downhill' and most commonly found in Antarctica and Greenland, what is the name of the wind that carries high density air from a higher elevation down a slope under the force of gravity? A: Katabatic wind
Q: What is the exclave of Russia that is surrounded by Lithuania and Poland on the Baltic Sea? A: Kaliningrad Oblast
Q: What is the longest river in the world that flows entirely in one country? A: Yangtze
Q: Located in Israel, what is the second-lowest lake in the world (after the Dead Sea) on whose shores much of the ministry of Jesus occurred? A: Sea of Galilee
Q: Meaning 'place of sunset' or 'western' in Arabic, which word is generally applied to the geographic area of Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia together? A: Maghreb
Q: Which renowned 20th century physicist was so fascinated by the current day Russian republic of Tuva (because of its obscurity) that he even wrote a book called Tuva or Bust! which chronicles his attempts to travel there? A: Richard Feynman
Q: The summit of which mountain in Ecuador is generally regarded as the spot that is farthest from the center of the Earth? A: Chimborazo
Q: Deluded by a legend, Francisco Orellana and Gonzalo Pizarro departed from Ecuador in 1541 in a disastrous expedition towards the Amazon Basin; they did not find any gold or lost cities but Orellana became the first person to navigate the entire Amazon River. What were they seeking? A: El Dorado
Q: The name of which vast and arid area north of the Great Australian Bight is derived from the Latin for 'no trees' and the crossing of which is a seminal experience of the Australian Outback? A: Nullarbor Plain
Q: With 34.8 percent salinity, Lake Assal is considered the most saline body of water outside Antarctica. In which tiny nation in the Horn of Africa is it located? A: Djibouti
Q: Easter Island in the South Pacific is well-known for its numerous moai, the stone statues located along its coastline. Which country does the island belong to? A: Chile
Q: As of April 2010, apart from Western Sahara, Tokelau is the only other non-self governing territory in the world that is not administered by the UK, US or France. Which country administers it? A: New Zealand
Q: A trans-boundary river is a river that crosses at least one political border (either a border within a nation or an international boundary). Which country has the greatest number of such rivers, including 58 that enter from India or Burma? A: Bangladesh
Q: Which borough of New York City is the only one of the city's five boroughs to be situated primarily on the US mainland rather than on an island? A: Bronx
Q: As of 2010, the ten highest active volcanoes are located in which continent? A: South America
Q: Which famous bay in Sydney, Australia was the site of a landing by Captain James Cook and sparked Britian's interest in Australia? A: Botany Bay
Q: A system of government called 'confessionalism' which distributes power proportionally among religious communities is currently prevelant in which tiny Middle-Eastern nation? A: Lebanon
Q: What is the collective name given to the 16 volcanoes identified by the International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior (IAVCEI) as being worthy of particular study in light of their history of destructive eruptions and proximity to populated areas? A: Decade Volcanoes
Q: Which feature that is 6380 kms long has traditionally been considered a dividing line between North and South China? A: Yangtze river
Q: Two monumental statues of standing Buddhas carved into a cliff and infamously destroyed by the Taliban in 2001 were located in which part of central Afghanistan? A: Bamyan valley
Q: What are the only two South American countries that do not border Brazil? A: Ecuador and Chile
Q: Located in Botswana, which is the world's largest inland delta? A: Okavango
Q: Among US states with the highest number of national parks, California and Alaska come in first with 8 each. Which state comes next with 5 of them? A: Utah
Q: What is the beautiful onion-domed church situated in Red Square, Moscow that is often confused with the Kremlin? A: Saint Basil's Cathedral
Q: What is the only nation state of the Commonwealth of Nations on the mainland of South America? A: Guyana
Q: Flemish Cap, an area of shallow waters in the north Atlantic east of Newfoundland and Labrador is featured in which 2000 film as the final fishing grounds for Billy Tyne (George Clooney) and his crew? A: The Perfect Storm
Q: The city of DeKalb, Illinois is credited as the first manufacturing site of what 'restraining' invention that revolutionized ranching in the US? A: Barbed wire
Q: Which tiny landlocked European country, also the smallest German-speaking country in the world, has bordering countries that are also landlocked? A: Liechtenstein
Q: After Russia, what is the second largest country in area amongst the former Soviet republics? A: Kazakhstan
Q: The melting Furtwängler Glacier, sometimes used as an example of global warming is near which African geographic feature? A: Mount Kilimanjaro
Q: Which group of islands in the Caribbean Sea are divided as? Greater ___: Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico Lesser ___: Leeward Islands, Windward Islands and Leeward ___ A: Antilles
Q: Which Peruvian city was the historic capital of the sun-worshipping Inca empire? A: Cusco
Q: Which national capital is the only city entirely built in the 20th century to be considered a World Heritage Site by UNESCO? A: Brasilia
Q: After the five oceans, what is the largest sea body in the world? A: South China Sea
Q: Which country became the first sovereign state of the 21st century when Indonesia relinquished control on it in May 2002? A: East Timor
Q: The Bridge of Sighs was given its name by Lord Byron from the suggestion that prisoners would sigh at their final view of which beautiful city out of its window before being taken to their cells? A: Venice
Q: All the largest islands in the world are in oceans/seas and hence are surrounded by sea-water. Marajo, which has the distinction of being the largest island completely surrounded by fresh water is in which water body? A: Amazon
Q: By political definition, what is the essential difference between Great Britian and United Kingdom? A: Northern Ireland
Q: Alfred Wegener was the first to publish the hypothesis that these had somehow 'moved' apart but he was unable to provide a convincing explanation for the physical processes which might have caused it. What are we talking about? A: Continental drift
Q: What is also known as Qomolangma or Sagarmatha or Chomolungma in the native tongues of the people around it? A: Mount Everest
Q: The Shatt al-Arab waterway constitutes a part of the border between which countries? A: Iran and Iraq
Q: What gorge in the Ngorongoro area of Tanzania is considered the seat of humanity after the discovery of the earliest known specimens of modern man? A: Olduvai Gorge
Q: The Italian liqueur Galliano takes its name from a war hero who perished in the Battle of Adwa which not only secured what nation's sovereignty but is also one of the very few instances in which an African country defeated a European power? A: Ethiopia
Q: Alba gu bràth! The 15th century poet Blind Harry is best-known for his account eulogizing which person? A: William Wallace
Q: The Khalistan movement that was active in the later part of the 20th century sought to create an independent state for what religious group in a territory mostly in the North-West region of India? A: Sikhism
Q: Andinia plan, Fugu plan, Uganda proposal, and Madagascar plan are some of the attempts for the establishment of what entity in history? A: Jewish state
Q: During the US presidential elections of 1936, the magazine The Literary Digest conducted an opinion poll using millions of people but still ended up being wrong. Who bested the magazine with his scientific technique using only a small percentage of what the magazine had used? A: George Gallup
Q: "Ted Sorenson, who was called by JFK as ""intellectual blood bank"" made his best-known contribution to the president in what capacity?" A: Speechwriter
Q: "The Khartoum Resolution of 1967 that was organized after the Six-Day War became famous for its ""Three No's"" rejecting what entity?" A: Israel
Q: Alamut Castle, now in modern-day Iran, is remembered today as the home of what notorious group between 1090 and 1256 AD? A: Assassins
Q: The cartoon Dropping the Pilot was published when which world leader was forced to resign in 1890? A: Bismarck
Q: What is particularly common to King Charles II of England and the state of Connecticut's Royal Charter? A: Oak tree
Q: The Audubon Ballroom in Harlem, which now has a museum, was the scene of whose assassination? A: Malcolm X
Q: Historians speculate that China attacked India in 1962 as world attention was focused on what other episode? A: Cuban Missile Crisis
Q: As seen in the movie The Longest Day, paratrooper John Steele saw action during the D-Day invasion of WWII while dangling from where? A: Church tower
Q: An infamous ball in 14th century France hosted by the French King Charles VI is remembered as 'Ball of (what) Men' referring to an incident that occurred in it? A: Burning
Q: "The phrase ""two plus two equals five"" (""2 + 2 = 5"") popularized by George Orwell is plausibly derived from what developmental policy of the erstwhile Soviet Union?" A: Five Year Plans
Q: The Twelve Tables is usually considered the first attempt of Romans to create what? A: Constitution
Q: Women groups that could not participate in the 1900 Boxer Rebellion of China organized themselves under what colorful name? Raise the ... A: Red Lanterns
Q: The commander Subutai who is credited with conquering more territory than any other commander in history fought for which empire? A: Mongol
Q: The Cry of Dolores is regarded as the first event in the fight for independence in the history of what country? A: Mexico
Q: The Cassette Scandal of recent times has proved to be pivotal in shaping the political landscape of what country? A: Ukraine
Q: A group of fifteen ships called the Yellow Fleet was trapped in what part of the world from 1967 to 1975, a fall-out of a noted war? A: Suez Canal
Q: How do we better know a list compiled in ancient times by Antipater of Sidon and by an observer identified as Philo of Byzantium? A: Seven Wonders of the Ancient World
Q: The Three Pashas of the Ottoman Empire organized what 'fledgling' political group during the early 20th century whose name has now become synonymous with any internal reform group? A: Young Turks
Q: When in 1862 did the Mexican army claim an unlikely victory over French forces at the Battle of Puebla immortalizing the day in Mexican history? A: 5th of May
Q: The Guayaquil Conference of July 22, 1822 saw the meeting of which two people regarded as the primary liberators of South America from Spain? A: José de San Martín and Simón Bolívar
Q: Kniefall von Warschau (German for 'Warsaw Genuflection') is a 1970 incident involving which European statesman who paid homage to WWII's Warsaw Ghetto Uprising during his visit to the city? A: Willy Brandt
Q: "Talking about which country did the writer V. S. Naipaul write ""No civilization was so little equipped to cope with the outside world; no country was so easily raided and plundered, and learned so little from its disasters""?" A: India
Q: The founding of the Austrian city of Wiener Neustadt by Duke Leopold V in 1194 came about from the ill-gotten gains of whose kidnapping that probably yielded the highest ransom ever? A: Richard the Lionheart
Q: The 1940 book To the Finland Station by Edmund Wilson that traces communism refers to the arrival of Lenin at the said railway station in what city? A: St. Petersburg
Q: A woman named Pompeia was divorced in 62 BC in Rome after she was suspected of a crime despite there being no evidence of her wrongdoing. Whom was she married to? A: Julius Caeser
Q: What European ethnicity marks the anniversary of the Battle of the Golden Spurs (1302) fought in Flanders as its official holiday? A: Flemish
Q: The French military engineer Vauban (1633-1707) who advised Louis XIV on protecting his country's borders was well-known for his skill in constructing what? A: Forts
Q: Signed by three heads of states in the later part of the 20th century, what was the result of the Belavezha Accords? A: Dissolution of the Soviet Union
Q: The brave Sophie Scholl who was beheaded in Nazi Germany for distributing pamphlets deriding the regime was part of what 'floral' non-violent movement? A: White Rose movement
Q: What word, also linked to President Kennedy's liking for a Broadway musical, was used for the first time in a 1963 Life magazine article to describe a 60's era? A: 'Camelot'
Q: 700 private boats sailed from Ramsgate in England to what place in France between 26 May and 4 June 1940 as part of Operation Dynamo? A: Dunkirk
Q: Charter 77, a petition by writers and intellectuals demanding basic human rights played a big part in the anti-communist movement in what erstwhile country? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Velupillai Prabhakaran, whose death in 2009 ended a bloody civil war in Sri Lanka sought to create an independent state for the people of what ethnicity? A: Tamil
Q: What was the code name of the war game that NATO conducted in Belgium in 1983 the events surrounding which led to the closest brush to nuclear war since the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: Able Archer 83
Q: The magnificent Ishtar Gate constructed around 575 BC served as one of the entrances to what ancient city? A: Babylon
Q: Convoy SC-7 consisting of 35 merchant ships was the first major casuality of a tactic termed Rudeltaktik ('tactics of a pack') notably practiced by what entities during WWII? A: German U-boats
Q: In 1120 the sinking of what vessel, called the Titanic of the Middle Ages, caused the death of the legitimate heir to the throne of England and led to a period known as the Anarchy? A: White Ship
Q: What major 1915 campaign of the First World War is also called as the Battle of Çanakkale and is credited with shaping the consciousness of more than one country? A: Gallipoli campaign
Q: The ultra left-wing group Red Army Faction associated with the names Andreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof was active in what country in the later part of the 20th century? A: Germany
Q: The Wars of the Diadochi were a series of conflicts fought for the control of an empire after whose death? A: Alexander the Great
Q: The Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 that was fought in places like Cawnpore, Lucknow before ending in Gwalior is said to be the first war of independence in the history of which country? A: India
Q: Katharina von Bora, a nun who escaped convent life in 1523 by fleeing to Wittenberg hiding among fish barrels was married to which key figure of world history? A: Martin Luther
Q: What name was given by pilots of the US Air Force to the area of North Korea considered the birthplace of jet fighter combat as it saw numerous dog fights during the Korean War? A: Mig Alley
Q: The second most-studied case of genocide (after the Holocaust) is said to have begun on April 24, 1915 when Ottoman authorities arrested 250 intellectuals of what ethnicity? A: Armenian
Q: The 1792 Battle of Valmy in which a citizen army defeated the Prussian army is significant for saving/preserving what? A: French Revolution
Q: The 1889 constitution of which country recognized the divine power of its emperor deriving it from a native belief that the imperial family was the offspring of the sun goddess Amaterasu? A: Japan
Q: The Battle of Coral Sea in WWII in 1942 is notable for the first fleet action of what type of craft that are still in vogue? A: Aircraft carriers
Q: Owain Glyndŵr (died c. 1416) who was venerated by the 19th century Cymru Fydd movement is considered the national hero of what ethnicity? A: Welsh
Q: What diplomatic crisis ended with the signing of the Algiers Accords in January, 1981? A: Iran hostage crisis
Q: In May 2011, Queen Elizabeth became the second-longest reigning British monarch in history overtaking which monarch? A: George III
Q: The philosopher Hegel who lived from 1770 to 1831 described which contemporary personality as 'world history on horseback'? A: Napoleon
Q: Andabatae, bestiarii, equites, hoplomachi, retiarii and sagittarii are some of what belligerent types? A: Gladiators
Q: The Trưng Sisters who successfully rebelled against the Chinese Han-Dynasty in the 1st century AD are regarded as national heroines in which country? A: Vietnam
Q: The Chaco War (1932-35) that was fought for a region (incorrectly) thought to be oil-rich is South America's bloodiest 20th century conflict. Which two land-locked countries were the participants? A: Bolivia and Paraguay
Q: If Heinrich Schliemann is to Troy, the British archaeologist Leonard Woolley is to what ancient city? A: Ur in Mesopotamia
Q: Which long-serving Italian prime minister of the 20th century was kidnapped and tragically killed by a group called the Red Brigades in 1978? A: Aldo Moro
Q: Who was executed at Akershus Fortress, Oslo in 1945 along with Albert Hagelin and Ragnar Skancke after being convicted of high treason? A: Vidkun Quisling
Q: In WWII, Germany's 6th army was destroyed in 'Operation Uranus' in 1943 after a bitter battle around which city? A: Stalingrad
Q: Traudl Junge, who wrote the book Until the Final Hour that was the basis for the 2004 film Downfall was the personal secretary of which historical figure? A: Hitler
Q: The 15th century figure Skanderbeg who is remembered for his struggle against the Ottoman Empire is considered the national hero of which country? A: Albania
Q: What is the famous four-letter phrase uttered by Ronald Reagan in his speech in June, 1987 at Brandenburg Gate in West Berlin? A: """Tear down this wall"""
Q: What political movement in first century Judaism that sought to incite people against the Roman Empire has now come to mean fanatical support for a cause? A: Zealotry
Q: If the Chinese are associated with the Long March in the 20th century, who are associated with the Great Trek in Africa in the 19th century? A: Boers
Q: In 1973, Libya went to war with which country to claim control of the Aouzou strip which was claimed to be rich with uranium deposits? A: Chad
Q: When he fell in the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485, who became the last English king to die in battle? A: Richard III
Q: What were the military units made up of volunteers from different countries who traveled to defend the Second Spanish Republic in the Spanish Civil War (1936-39) called? A: International Brigades
Q: The Ostend Manifesto was a document written in 1854 that described the rationale for the United States to purchase what island from Spain? A: Cuba
Q: "Which Asian mountain pass of significant historical importance has been called ""a sword cut through the mountains"" by Kipling?" A: Khyber Pass
Q: Sengbe Pieh (1813–ca.1879), later known as Joseph Cinqué was a West African man and the most prominent defendant in which 1841 case in American history named for a ship? A: Amistad case
Q: What groups of secret revolutionary societies founded in early 19th-century Italy get their name from the Italian for 'charcoal burners'? A: Carbonari
Q: What 1943 WWII battle between Germany and the Soviet Union remains to this day the largest series of armored clashes ever? A: Battle of Kursk
Q: During World War I, which Belgian city that was the centre of intense battles was nicknamed 'wipers'? A: Ypres
Q: What term refers to the stage of the journey that saw the forcible passage of Africans to the New World as part of the Atlantic slave trade? A: Middle Passage
Q: What is the name of the fictional woman who is depicted as the national emblem of the French Republic? A: Marianne
Q: As numerous countries gained their independence in that year, which year in the second half of the 20th century is known as the 'Year of Africa'? A: 1960
Q: What 'fruity' term for a small and unstable country dependent on agriculture was first used by O. Henry in reference to Honduras? A: Banana republic
Q: Because foreigners were forbidden to serve in the French Army after the 1830 July Revolution, what was created by Louis Philippe, the King of France in 1831? A: French Foreign Legion
Q: Mimar Sinan (1489-1588) is considered the greatest architect of the classical period and was responsible for the Suleiman mosque in Istanbul and many other magnificent constructions. Which political entity benefited from his genius? A: Ottomon empire
Q: In ancient Greece, the bematists who accompanied Alexander the Great on his campaigns were trained to measure what? A: Distances (by counting their steps)
Q: If you have to associate one person with the 'Kuomintang Party' between 1929 and 1948, who would it be? A: Chiang Kai-shek
Q: Ephialtes of Trachis was the traitor who showed the Persian forces a trail around the allied Greek position at the pass of Thermopylae, which helped them win the Battle of Thermopylae in 480 BC. He was portrayed as a severely deformed man in which blood-soaked 2007 movie? A: 300
Q: What are 'Potemkin villages' which were purportedly erected at the direction of Russian minister Grigori Potemkin to impress Empress Catherine II during her visit to Crimea in 1787? A: Fake settlements
Q: What was the name of the notorious biological research unit of the Japanese Army that undertook lethal human experimentation during the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945) and WWII? A: Unit 731
Q: On 31 October 1984, the English actor Peter Ustinov was waiting to interview which Asian leader when that person was assassinated? A: Indira Gandhi
Q: Waitangi Day held each year on February 6 is the national day of New Zealand as a treaty instrumental in the country's history was signed at that place in 1840. The name 'Waitangi' means 'weeping waters' in which language? A: Māori
Q: Kåre Kristiansen, a member of the Nobel Committee resigned in 1994 in protest at the awarding of the Peace Prize to which person, calling the awardee a terrorist? A: Yasser Arafat
Q: Who was executed by hanging at Ramla prison in 1962 and remains the only person to have been executed by an Israeli civilian court? A: Adolf Eichmann
Q: What two countries fought the six-day 'Football War' or the '100-hours War' in 1969? A: El Salvador and Honduras
Q: What sporty term popularized by Rudyard Kipling in Kim was used to describe the rivalry between the British Empire and the Russian Empire in their quest for supremacy in Central Asia in the 19th century? A: """Great game"""
Q: Literally called 'The Righteous and Harmonious Society Movement', what is the more popular western name for the Chinese rebellion took place from 1899 to 1901 against foreign influence during the final years of the Manchu rule? A: Boxer Rebellion
Q: What generic term for all African American soldiers was originally applied to the members of the U.S. 10th Cavalry Regiment by the native Apache Indians? A: Buffalo soldiers
Q: The Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, one of the Seven Wonders of the World, was destroyed on July 21, 356 BC in an act of arson. Historian Plutarch remarked that the goddess was preoccupied with the birth of whom that occurred on the same day to save her temple? A: Alexander the Great
Q: What 1990s theory proposed by the political scientist Samuel Huntington contends that cultural and religious identities will be the primary source of conflict in the post-Cold War world? A: Clash of Civilizations
Q: What is the name of the Polish trade union founded in September 1980 at the Gdańsk Shipyard that was originally led by Lech Wałęsa? A: Solidarity
Q: In 1954, which country suggested that it should join NATO to preserve peace in Europe but this proposal was rejected as the other countries felt that it would weaken the alliance? A: Soviet Union
Q: What was the famous one-word reply of General McAuliffe of the US to a German demand for surrender during the Battle of the Bulge in WWII? A: """Nuts!"""
Q: In 1948, which Latin American country became the first in the world to constitutionally abolish its army? A: Costa Rica
Q: "Whose last words before he drank poison reportedly were ""Crito, we owe a cock to Asclepius. Pay it and do not neglect it.""?" A: Socrates
Q: What is the name of the village on the border between North and South Korea where the 1953 armistice that halted the Korean War was signed? A: Panmunjeom
Q: What South African island was used as a gaol for political prisoners while the country was under the policy of apartheid? A: Robben Island
Q: What burning-liquid weapon was used by the Byzantine Greeks to great effect as it could continue burning even on water? A: Greek fire
Q: What weapon do many historians call 'the machine gun of the Middle Ages'? A: Longbow
Q: What two countries formed in 1993 as a result of what is known as the 'Velvet Divorce'? A: Czech Republic and Slovakia
Q: The Battle of Austerlitz, one of Napoleon's greatest victories is also known by what name that references Emperor Francis and the Russian Czar along with Napoleon himself? A: Battle of the Three Emperors
Q: The Pulitzer-nominated 1979 book The Madwoman in the Attic which examines Victorian literature from a feminist perspective takes its title from a plot point of what 1847 novel? A: Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre
Q: Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky a current-day husband and wife team are known for what type of contribution to literature? A: Translations
Q: Captain George Pollard, Jr., who inspired an all-time great 1851 novel, was the captain of Essex that was attacked and sunk by what? A: (Sperm) whale
Q: Who is the popular author who served as Chancellor of Moratuwa University in Sri Lanka from 1979 to 2002? A: Arthur C. Clarke
Q: According to a 1864 adventure novel, Saknussemm's Corridor in an extinct volcano in Iceland is the place to start if you seek to go where? A: Center of the earth
Q: American poet Dixon Lanier Merritt's well-known limerick is about what bird? A: Pelican
Q: "Algernon Blackwood's 1907 story, called by H. P. Lovecraft as the ""finest supernatural tale in English literature"" is titled after what type of trees? (hint: cricket)" A: Willows
Q: In which Somerset Maugham's short-story does missionary Alfred Davidson try to reform a prostitute but ultimately succumbs to her charm? A: Rain
Q: The name of what literary swashbuckler is the answer to the final question in the Oscar winning Slumdog Millionaire? A: Aramis
Q: Which prolific author created a men-only dining group called The Black Widowers for a series of mystery stories? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: A 1978 contemplative travel book of Peter Matthiessen concerned him tracking what elusive creature of the Himalayas? A: Snow leopard
Q: A 1986 book on the pivotal role of six Cold War diplomats including Dean Acheson and George Kennan had what title evoking a certain Biblical trio? A: The Wise Men
Q: Just as Edward Bulwer-Lytton is associated with bombastic writing, what is the similarly famous poem of William McGonagall? A: The Tay Bridge Disaster
Q: In Alan Moore's graphic novel V for Vendetta the anarchist wears a mask of which real-life person? A: Guy Fawkes
Q: The award winning 2005 children's book And Tango Makes Three has been subject to much controversy as it was seen to be highlighting what behavior in the animal kingdom? A: Homosexuality
Q: "Whose interview in Life magazine is said to have led to an upsurge in the sales of James Bond books? After a private screening of Dr. No, he also reportedly said ""I wish I had had James Bond on my staff.""" A: JFK
Q: In technical terms, the unforgettable Jeeves of P. G. Wodehouse is a valet and not a butler. Why? A: He serves a man and not a household
Q: Polydactyl cats (born with more than the usual number of toes) are associated with which writer who was known for his love for them? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: "What sonnet of Irish poet Seamus Heaney, a tribute to a long-running bulletin from BBC, starts as ""Dogger, Rockall, Malin, Irish Sea""?" A: The Shipping Forecast
Q: What is the name of the castle in Mervyn Peake's series of fantasy novels that has now come to mean any sprawling complex? A: Gormenghast
Q: Chekov's play Three Sisters is said to have been inspired by which real life siblings? A: Brontë sisters
Q: Which writer wrote the introduction for Robert Frank's influential photography book The Americans (1958) that contained images from Frank's travels across the US? A: Jack Kerouac
Q: In Strega Nona by Tomie dePaola, the children's tale of magic gone awry, a town in Italy is buried in an avalanche of what? A: Pasta
Q: What 1904 story by M. R. James in which the protagonist finds an antique artifact with undesirable consequences gets its ominously inviting title from a 1793 Robert Burns poem/song? A: Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad
Q: A controversial 1994 book by psychologist Richard J. Herrnstein whose premise is that genes and environment are predictors of intelligence is titled after what statistical function? A: Bell curve
Q: During the Siege of Sarajevo in the 90s, Susan Sontag directed what play in a candlelit theater symbolizing the city's absurd anticipation of western intervention? A: Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot
Q: What is the better known nickname of Greg Heffley whose hilarious memoirs are now a hit book franchise? A: Wimpy kid
Q: London to Suez = a; Suez to Bombay = b; Bombay to Calcutta = c; Calcutta to Hong Kong = d; Hong Kong to Yokohoma = e; Yokohama to San Francisco = f; San Francisco to New York City = g; New York to London = h. In terms of 19th century adventure time, a + b + c + d + e + f + g + h = ? A: 80 days
Q: The global think tank that attracted considerable attention with its 1972 publication of The Limits of Growth is called 'The Club of' what European city? A: Rome
Q: What 1899 poem of Rudyard Kipling whose racist title alludes to Western aspirations to dominate the developing world was written after the American colonization of the Philippines? A: The White Man's Burden
Q: The 5th Wave cartoons by Rich Tennant are interspersed throughout the books of what reference series? A: For Dummies
Q: The French commune of Illiers adopted the name Illiers-Combray in homage to which author whose vivid recreation of the town (through recollection) opens his vast magnum opus? A: Marcel Proust
Q: "Fill in the missing word in this famous quote of Jorge Luis Borges that is very appropriate coming from a writer! ""I have always imagined that paradise will be a kind of ___.""" A: """library"""
Q: No sleuthing allowed. What struggling doctor wrote The Narrative of John Smith that was published in 2011 about 130 years after it was first written? A: Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: What concocted 1903 text that asserts a Jewish plan to take over the world is sometimes cited as Hitler's justification for the Holocaust? A: The Protocols of the Elders of Zion
Q: Which 17th century literary classic ends with the title character stipulating in his will that his niece will be disinherited if she marries anyone who reads about chivalry? A: Don Quixote
Q: What term that is a mechanism for the disappearance of inconvenient documents comes from George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four in which it is a slot into which officials deposit records to be destroyed? A: Memory hole
Q: Who wrote the 1942 short story Runaround that lists three laws one of which is stated below? 'A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm' A: Isaac Asimov
Q: Michel de Montaigne of France is best known for popularizing what kind of writing as a literary genre? A: Essay
Q: In what story of Arthur C. Clarke do Tibetan monks seek to list all the names of God as they believe He will bring the Universe to an end once this is done? A: The Nine Billion Names of God
Q: Similar to John Reed's Ten Days that Shook the World, which influential 1930s book by Edgar Snow is an account of the Communist Party of China? A: Red Star Over China
Q: Which 1853 narrative poem of Matthew Arnold set in the orient tells the story of two feuding warrior-generals who, unknown to both, happen to be father and son? A: Sohrab and Rustum
Q: Which 1902 short story by W. W. Jacobs is based on the premise of three wishes coming true but with an enormous price for interfering with fate? A: The Monkey's Paw
Q: William Golding's Lord of the Flies was written as a response to which 1857 adventure novel by R. M. Ballantyne because Golding disagreed with the views that the book held? A: The Coral Island
Q: Which 1844 novel of William Makepeace Thackeray, later adapted into a movie by Stanley Kubrick, is based on the life of an Anglo-Irish fortune-hunter called Andrew Robinson Stoney? A: The Luck of Barry Lyndon
Q: The English novelist Sax Rohmer is best known for creating which prototypical ethnic villain who is now associated with a distinctive mustache? A: Dr. Fu Manchu
Q: 'The world is what it is; men who are nothing, who allow themselves to become nothing, have no place in it.' This unforgettable opening line is from which author's A Bend in the River and lent itself to the title of that authors authorized biography The World Is What It Is by Patrick French? A: V. S. Naipaul
Q: The most-translated contemporary Italian writer at the time of his death in 1985, whose best known works are the Our Ancestors trilogy and the Cosmicomics collection of short stories? A: Italo Calvino
Q: What classic short story by the French writer Guy de Maupassant concerns an invisible malevolent spirit that aims to take control over the narrator? A: The Horla
Q: Which 1961 non-fiction book by US journalist John Howard Griffin describes his six-week experience travelling on buses through racially segregated states while passing as a black man? A: Black Like Me
Q: The title of which classic set in Africa is taken from a line in Yeats' poem The Second Coming and precedes the words 'the centre cannot hold'? A: Things Fall Apart (1958)
Q: Which 1899 book by Thorstein Veblen that originated the phrase 'conspicuous consumption' is considered one of the first detailed critiques of consumerism? A: The Theory of the Leisure Class
Q: What type of utensil that is frequently used in nonsense poetry first appeared in Edward Lear's best-known poem The Owl and the Pussycat? A: Runcible spoon
Q: The 'Younger Memnon' statue of Ramesses II in the British Museum is thought to have inspired which famous poem of P. B. Shelley? A: Ozymandias
Q: Which Norwegian fairy tale is about three goats who want to cross a bridge under which lurks a fearsome troll? A: Three Billy Goats Gruff
Q: What 1908 satirical work by the Nobel Prize winning French author Anatole France describes a fictitious island of great auks that exists on the northern coast of Europe? A: Penguin Island
Q: In the US and Canada, what appropriately titled book of Dr. Seuss is a popular gift for students graduating from high school and college? A: Oh, the Places You'll Go!
Q: The 1954 publication of the book Seduction of the Innocent which protested the harmful effects of mass media on children led to a U.S. Congressional inquiry into what genre of publishing? A: Comic book industry
Q: In 2004, the government of Equatorial Guinea accused which popular English author of being one of the financiers of a failed 2004 coup d'état attempt against it? A: Jeffrey Archer
Q: Because A. A. Milne was critical towards him for pandering to Germans during WWII, which English author created a ridiculous character named Timothy Bobbin to parody some of Milne's poetry? A: P. G. Wodehouse
Q: Which 1944 work of Friedrich Hayek is among the most influential expositions of classical liberalism and is stated as the single book that significantly shaped the political ideologies of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan? A: The Road to Serfdom
Q: When he was killed in a car crash in 1960, which existentialist became the shortest-lived of any literature Nobel laurate till date? A: Albert Camus
Q: Which 1975 book by the Australian philosopher Peter Singer is considered to be the founding philosophical statement of the animal rights movement? A: Animal Liberation
Q: Utopia by Thomas More is largely based on which influential work of philosophy and political theory? A: Plato's Republic
Q: The Other Side of Me is the autobiography of which popular American author and creator of the TV series I Dream of Jeannie? A: Sidney Sheldon
Q: If Cornelius Ryan's The Longest Day details the D-Day invasion of Normandy, and The Last Battle tells about the Battle of Berlin, which of his books tells the story of Operation Market Garden in WWII? A: A Bridge Too Far (1974)
Q: The American travel writer and novelist Paul Theroux's book Sir Vidia's Shadow provides a caustic portrait of which other famous author? A: V. S. Naipaul
Q: Which 1961 book by Frantz Fanon was described by Time magazine as 'this is not so much a book as a rock thrown through the windows of the West. It is the Communist Manifesto or the Mein Kampf of the anticolonial revolution ...'? A: The Wretched of the Earth
Q: What genre of literature is generally believed to have been invented by the English author Horace Walpole with his 1764 novel The Castle of Otranto? A: Gothic fiction
Q: Which 1966 postcolonial parallel novel by Jean Rhys acts as a prequel to Charlotte Brontë's 1847 novel Jane Eyre? A: Wide Sargasso Sea
Q: What is observed annually on June 16 in Dublin to celebrate the life of James Joyce and relive the events in his novel Ulysses? A: Bloomsday
Q: Which influential 19th century work on military strategy by Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz is prescribed at various military academies to this day? A: On War
Q: Jawaharlal Nehru, the Prime Minister of India spoke with Khrushchev and was partly instrumental in preventing the expulsion of which writer from the Soviet Union after that person won the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: Boris Pasternak
Q: If Maugham's The Moon and Sixpence fictionalizes the life of Paul Gauguin, his novel Cakes and Ale contains characterizations of which English author who never lived in Wessex? A: Thomas Hardy
Q: Which well-known short story about time travel by Ray Bradbury is a fictional exploration of the 'butterfly effect' of Chaos theory? A: A Sound of Thunder
Q: The 2000 film Finding Forrester in which Sean Connery plays a reclusive author was loosely based on the life of which person who passed away in 2010? A: J. D. Salinger
Q: Which classic Middle Eastern story of star-crossed lovers is based on the real story of a young man called Qays ibn al-Mullawah and has achieved legendary status in the Islamic world? A: Layla and Majnun
Q: Which 1903 book by Erskine Childers that is still enjoyed for its accurate portrayal of inland sailing was credited by Winston Churchill as a major reason for the establishment of naval bases in the UK? A: The Riddle of the Sands
Q: Mark Twain's ridiculing of chivalry in his story A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court is considered as specifically targeting whose books? A: Walter Scott
Q: In Dante's Divine Comedy, if Hell is divided into 9 circles and Paradise into 9 spheres, what is divided into 7 terraces? A: Purgatory
Q: In the Indiana Jones series of novels, Indiana loses his virginity to which real life spy? A: Mata Hari
Q: Karataka and Damanaka are the names of two jackals that are retainers to a lion king. Their lively adventures as well as the stories they tell one another make up nearly half of which classic ancient Sanskrit work? A: The Panchatantra
Q: The name of what genre has its origin in what producers Jerry Kasenetz and Jeff Katz had in their mouths when they discussed music targeting the younger crowd? A: Bubblegum pop
Q: In 1934, a regulation promulgated in a certain country required that when the Horst-Wessel-Lied was sung, what gesture must be performed? A: Hitler salute
Q: "Ships of what cruise line use the tune of ""When You Wish upon a Star"" from Pinnochio as the melody of their horns?" A: Disney Cruise
Q: Whose March 31, 1994 appearance on Late Show with David Letterman resulted in the episode becoming the most censored in American network television talk-show history for obvious reasons? A: Madonna
Q: Who is the American entertainer who shares her name with a West African Empire known for its symbol of Golden Stool? A: Ashanti
Q: "Whose Symphony No. 1 was called ""Beethoven's Tenth"" by conductor Hans von Bülow?" A: Brahms'
Q: India's national anthem is written in what language that is also the national language of one of its neighbors? A: Bengali
Q: "What album of Sting takes its title from a sonnet he quoted in response to a drunk's query, ""How beautiful is the moon?""?" A: ...Nothing Like the Sun
Q: The musical ensemble arrangement called 'gamelan' which often accompanies wayang puppet performances (among others) is a tradition of what Asian country? A: Indonesia
Q: An aversion therapy called the 'Ludovico technique' from the 1971 classic A Clockwork Orange features which composer's music? Kudos if you can name the piece too. A: Beethoven's Ninth Symphony
Q: Composer Philip Glass's 'Portrait Trilogy' of operas consists of Einstein on the Beach, Akhnaten and Satyagraha with the last one focusing on whom? A: Mahatma Gandhi
Q: What is the better known name of Violin Sonata in G minor by Giuseppe Tartini that the composer said was played to him in a dream by Satan himself? A: Devil's Trill sonata
Q: In which country did the dictator Rafael Trujillo promote the merengue style of music/dance into the country's national music? A: Dominican Republic
Q: As its lyrics attest, what 1974 rock classic that celebrates a place was written in response to two songs of Neil Young that were derogatory of the American South? A: """Sweet Home Alabama"""
Q: What song by The Doors that has a strong reference to the Oedipus complex got them fired from the Whisky a Go Go nightclub in West Hollywood? A: """The End"""
Q: What musical instrument that takes its name from a muse was used in riverboats and in circuses because of its loudness? A: Calliope
Q: "The phrase ""it's better to burn out than to fade away"" from Neil Young's classic song ""Hey Hey, My My (Into the Black)"" became better known after being quoted in whose 1994 suicide note?" A: Nirvana's Kurt Cobain
Q: The short poem And did those feet in ancient time by William Blake that features the phrase 'dark satanic mills' is best known in what musical context? A: The anthem Jerusalem
Q: What is the term given to a musical that uses previously released popular songs as its musical score, examples of which are Mamma Mia! and Jersey Boys? A: Jukebox musical
Q: Stevie Nicks of Fleetwood Mac avoided black clothing to distance herself from the dark arts associations surrounding her as a result of which of the band's hit song? A: """Rhiannon"""
Q: Due to the large number of languages used in the European Union, its anthem is purely instrumental. Despite this, the German lyrics from what work of Friedrich Schiller, connected to Beethoven, are often sung when the anthem is played? A: Ode to Joy
Q: Which overture written by Felix Mendelssohn was inspired by the echoes of a Scottish sea cave that he visited in 1829 and was named for it? A: """Fingal's Cave"" overture"
Q: If the Julliard School is to New York, the Berklee College of Music is to which city? A: Boston
Q: The Italian soprano Renata Tebaldi who is acclaimed as one of the most beloved opera singers of all time was known for her rivalry with which other legendary soprano? A: Maria Callas
Q: Clang! The Avedis Zildjian Company is best known for producing and popularizing what musical instruments? A: Cymbals
Q: Which 1974 song made famous by the girl group 'Labelle' is most famous for its sexually suggestive chorus of 'voulez-vous coucher avec moi (ce soir)?' that translates as 'Do you want to sleep with me (tonight)?'? A: """Lady Marmalade"""
Q: 'Kling Klang' is the private music studio of which highly influential electronic music band from Germany? A: Kraftwerk
Q: The annual music festival 'Lollapalooza' was conceived and created in 1991 by singer Perry Farrell of which band as a farewell tour for his band? A: Jane's Addiction
Q: "The Queen song ""Radio Ga Ga"" is said to be the main inspiration behind the name of what current day hit singer?" A: Lady Gaga
Q: """Hail to the Chief"", the march primarily associated with the President of the US has verses derived from which narrative poem of Walter Scott?" A: The Lady of the Lake
Q: Which American song that remains a fundamental part of a jazz musicians' repertoire has been called 'the jazzman's Hamlet' and has also been used as an NHL team name? A: """St. Louis Blues"""
Q: Which enormously influential classical composer spent much of his career as a court musician for the wealthy Hungarian aristocratic Esterházy family? A: Joseph Haydn
Q: Which 1980 supergroup consisting of George Harrison, Jeff Lynne, Roy Orbison, Tom Petty and Bob Dylan decided to use a word with a single 'L' instead of a double 'L' in their name because the band started in America and consisted of three Americans and only two Britons? A: Traveling Wilburys
Q: Which city in Germany is famed for hosting the annual Wagner festival? A: Bayreuth
Q: "According to the Guinness Book of World Records, which song usually sung to congratulate a person is the second-most popular song following ""Happy Birthday to You"" in the English language?" A: """For He's a Jolly Good Fellow"""
Q: In vocal jazz, what is the style in which vocal improvisation is made with random syllables or even without words? A: Scat singing
Q: In the American music industry, what is the term given to the illegal practice of payment by record companies for the broadcast of recordings on music radio, in which the song is presented as being part of the normal day's broadcast? A: Payola
Q: "Which much-covered New Orleans song tells of a parade collision between two 'tribes' of Mardi Gras Indians was written under the original title ""Jock-A-Mo"" in 1954?" A: """Iko Iko"""
Q: Which musical instrument named after its Russian inventor is unique in that it is designed to be played without being touched? A: Theremin
Q: Which song written by the Hungarian pianist and composer Rezső Seress in 1933 was marketed as 'Hungarian suicide song' as it was mistakenly believed to have inspired hundreds of suicides? A: """Gloomy Sunday"""
Q: What is the musical term for a playing technique that involves plucking the strings of an instrument? A: Pizzicato
Q: Which famous Irish traditional song about a highwayman (usually in the Cork and Kerry mountains) was given a rock veneer by the rock band Thin Lizzy? A: """Whiskey in the Jar"""
Q: Which Swedish pop group went through the names 'Kalinin Prospect', CAD (Computer-Aided Disco) and Tech-Noir before settling on their present name as nobody could remember their previous names? A: Ace of Base
Q: Which British musician who worked on engineering projects as Paul McCartney's 'Wild Life' and Pink Floyd's' The Dark Side of the Moon' also started an eponymous progressive rock band that was active between 1975 and 1987? A: Alan Parsons
Q: Which 1982 song by the London punk rock group 'The Clash' is about Iran's outlawing of rock music, and also become the unofficial anthem for the Armed Forces during the Gulf War conflicts? A: """Rock the Casbah"""
Q: Can you connect the singer Bobby McFerrin with the mystic Meher Baba? A: """Don't Worry, Be Happy"""
Q: Which collection of orchestral movements were composed by George Frideric Handel in 1717 at the request of King George I? These are also his best known work. A: """Water Music"""
Q: Which controversial 1992 song by the punk band Body Count was co-written by the group's vocalist Ice-T and provoked a national debate about freedom of speech in the US? A: """Cop Killer"""
Q: The first album by the rock group Pink Floyd The Piper at the Gates of Dawn (1967) was named after a chapter in which children's classic? A: The Wind in the Willows
Q: Which iconic opera stereotype plays in the background as helicopters swoop in to annihilate a village in one of the opening scenes of the movie Apocalypse Now? A: """Ride of the Valkyries"""
Q: The 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time was a special issue of Rolling Stone published in 2003 which had Jimi Hendrix at no.1. Which American Southern Rock band was the most represented with 4 of its guitarists making the list? A: Allman Brothers Band
Q: What song was written and performed by Billy Joel to underscore the plight of fishermen on Long Island? A: """The Downeaster Alexa"""
Q: "Which punk band were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2006 but refused to attend the induction calling the museum a ""piss stain""? Maybe they did not find any 'filthy lucre' there!" A: Sex Pistols
Q: A famous remark often attributed to Brian Eno is that while only a few thousand people bought a record of this band, almost every single one of the purchasers was inspired to start their own band. Which influential rock band was Eno referring to? A: Velvet Underground
Q: "In a Oct, 2014 interview to The Guardian, Prof. Peter Piot said the following. What's the missing word? ""In 1976 I discovered ... - now I fear an unimaginable tragedy.""" A: Ebola
Q: "In a letter written in 1924, who wrote ""You will be interested to hear that I have found a Cepheid variable in the Andromeda Nebula"" and transformed our view of the universe forever?" A: Edwin Hubble
Q: In the fall of 2013, The New England Journal of Medicine reported on a certain 'Mississippi Baby' whose case was thought of as a landmark event in medical history. The conclusions made about her were reversed in July 2014. She was in the news for what reason? A: Cured of HIV
Q: Oklo in Gabon, Africa is the only known place in the world where what reaction occurs naturally? A: Nuclear fission
Q: The Flammarion engraving that can be frequently seen on book covers sought to illustrate what belief system? A: Flat earth
Q: The modern-day cattle breed of 'Heck' came about when it was attempted to bring back what extinct species? A: Aurochs
Q: If the Solvay Conferences of the early 1910s set the tone for 20th century physics, the Dartmouth Conferences of 1956 have similar importance for what field of science? A: Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Q: What is the name of the six-letter ore from which niobium and tantalum are extracted and whose mining is said to have fueled many modern day African conflicts? A: Coltan
Q: The 1610 book Sidereus Nuncius (Starry Messenger) that contained several sketches of the moon was published by whom? A: Galileo
Q: The Nice model, named for the French city, seeks to explain the formation of what? A: Solar System
Q: Usually named for the places where they are found, what are traditionally classified into three types as stony, iron and stony-iron? A: Meteorites
Q: Which scientific great's equation is seen in the field of quantum mechanics as the equivalent of Newton's Second Law? A: Erwin Schrödinger
Q: Thomas Hunt Morgan won a Nobel Prize for his studies of inheritance and pioneered the use of which tiny organism? A: Fruit fly
Q: The Oscillating Universe Theory combines Big Bang and what other event to make-up a cycle? A: Big Crunch
Q: German engineer Arthur Scherbius invented the first of what machines extensively used during WWII? A: Enigma machines
Q: English physician John Snow successfully traced the outbreak of what disease to a water pump? A: Cholera
Q: Philip Zimbardo of Stanford is best known for what experiment conducted in 1971 that highlighted the behavior of people when assigned roles? A: Stanford prison experiment
Q: As seen in a scene inspiring Robin Williams in the movie Awakenings, the chemical L-DOPA is widely used in the treatment of what disease? A: Parkinson's disease
Q: James Herrick is credited with the description of a genetic disease in which red-blood cells are in what shape instead of the normal disc shape? A: Sickle
Q: The sieve of Eratosthenes is an ancient method used to find what in mathematics? A: Prime numbers
Q: What 'continental' moon of the Solar System has become the focus of extra-terrestrial life studies because its smooth surface suggests the presence of an ocean underneath? A: Europa
Q: If Jupiter has the Great Red Spot, which planet has the Great Dark Spot? A: Neptune
Q: Redshift or blueshift that help us see which stars/galaxies are approaching or receding are determined by what effect named for an Austrian physicist? A: Doppler effect
Q: What mathematical theorem, the first major theorem to be solved using a computer, was proven in 1976 by Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken with a set of 1936 maps? A: Four-color map theorem
Q: Schreger lines are the unique identifiers of what valuable substance whose usage has led to the dwindling numbers of something large? A: Ivory
Q: Which distinctive plant's genus is Dionaea (the mother of Aphrodite in Greek mythology) and species muscipula (Latin for 'mouse-catching device')? A: Venus flytrap
Q: What probability riddle originally published in American Statistician in 1975 gained popular attention after it was featured in Parade in 1990? A: Monty Hall problem
Q: The baryon asymmetry problem in physics deals with the anomaly of why the universe has any matter at all and why it is not filled with photons only. This is because the Big Bang should have produced equal amounts of what? A: Matter and antimatter
Q: Because all species of the manatee use fresh water in varying ways, what is the only strictly marine herbivorous mammal? A: Dugong
Q: What cell line used in research that was taken from an African-American woman who died in 1951 is the oldest and most commonly used human cell line? A: HeLa cell line
Q: What type of creature was Lonesome George, who died in 2012 and who gained fame as the rarest creature in the world? (hint: he was aged perhaps more than 100 years) A: (Pinta Island) tortoise
Q: A 15 meter long mechanical arm called the Canadarm was used to maneuver payloads through the 1980s to 2011 on what type of vehicles? A: Space shuttles
Q: Renal calculus is not a branch of mathematics but a fancy name for what painful affliction? A: Kidney stone
Q: The famed oil drop experiment performed by Millikan and Fletcher in 1909 helped determine what fundamental physical constant? A: Charge of an electron
Q: Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania with its high levels of diversity that includes chimpanzee populations is best associated with which person? A: Jane Goodall
Q: Similar to an eclipse, they are among the rarest predictable celestial phenomena. The last one for the 21st century occurred on 5/6 June 2012. They are historically of great scientific importance as they were used to gain the first realistic estimates of the size of the Solar System. Observation for the first time in 1639 provided an accurate estimate of the distance between the Sun and the Earth. Answer? A: Transits of Venus
Q: The most recognized form of a jellyfish and a basic stage in its life cycle takes the name of what fearsome monster in mythology? (hint: stone!) A: Medusa
Q: A 2000s British musical by Mat Fraser whose plot is about the love affair of a guy with phocomelia (a birth defect that causes stunted limbs) is titled after what drug? A: Thalidomide
Q: The spacecraft New Horizons which is expected to be the first spacecraft to flyby Pluto (in 2015) contains on board whose ashes as a tribute? A: Clyde Tombaugh, the discoverer of Pluto
Q: The Goldbach's conjecture, one of the oldest unsolved problems in mathematics, states that every even integer greater than 2 can be expressed as a sum of what? A: Two prime numbers
Q: What systems are classified based on their visual appearance by the Hubble sequence? A: Galaxies
Q: "The 1957 B2FH paper, named after the initials of the scientists that wrote it, is the source of Carl Sagan's famous quote ""We are all ___ stuff."" What is the missing word?" A: """Star"""
Q: The development of the immuno-suppressant drug ciclosporin in the 1980s gave a fillip to what type of surgeries? A: Organ transplants
Q: What was the subject of astronomer Fred Whipple's 'Dirty Snowball' hypothesis? A: Comets
Q: In physics, what is the more common term for the Einstein-Rosen bridge that has fascinating implications for time travel? A: Wormhole
Q: When Jocelyn Bell Burnell and Antony Hewish discovered pulsars in 1967, they were baffled by the unnatural regularity of the radio transmissions. Jocularly suggesting that it was the work of extraterrestrials, they initially named their discovery as LGM-1 which expands to what? A: 'Little Green Men 1'
Q: "In 2010, Andre Geim became the first person to receive both the Nobel Prize and what other unusual prize whose ceremony closes with ""If you didn't win a prize - and especially if you did - better luck next year!""?" A: Ig Nobel Prizes
Q: Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo that was established in 1925 as Africa's first national park was created mainly to protect what animal? A: Gorilla
Q: "The Montreal Protocol that went into force in 1989 and which was hailed by Kofi Annan as ""... the single most successful international agreement to date ..."" was aimed at protecting what?" A: Ozone layer
Q: The terms anadromous and catadromous describe what type of living thing referring to its mode of migration? (hint: 'ana' is up and 'cata' is down in Greek) A: Fish
Q: On 25 December 1990 while working at CERN, he implemented the first successful communication between a HTTP client and server via the Internet. In less than 10 years, Time named him as one of the 100 Most Important People of the 20th Century. Who? A: Tim Berners-Lee
Q: A note written in 1637 in the margin of a book says that there are no positive integers x, y and z such that xn + yn = zn, where n is an integer greater than two. This wasn't proved until 1995. Who is the author of this note? A: Pierre de Fermat
Q: Dendrochronology is the method of determining age/timeline by the counting of what 'circles'? (hint: 'dendron' in Greek is?) A: Tree-rings
Q: In the hardware industry, what 'stirring' word describes the process of coating of iron/steel with zinc to prevent rusting? A: Galvanization
Q: What namesake thought experiment intended to demonstrate the limitation of the Second Law of Thermodynamics features a malevolent creature opening doors in a chamber? A: Maxwell's demon
Q: A hypothetical elementary particle called the Higgs boson that is the subject of studies using the Large Hadron Collider has been given what 'divine' name by the mainstream media? A: God particle
Q: In biology, what 3-letter word derived from the Swedish for 'play' is a gathering of males of certain bird species for the purposes of mating display? A: Lek
Q: Global warming be damned. The 19th century biologist Louis Agassiz who studied Alpine glaciers was the first to propose that the Earth had been subject what phenomena in the past? A: Ice ages
Q: If Jane Goodall is to chimpanzees, Birutė Galdikas, who worked for a long time in Borneo is to what animal? A: Orangutan
Q: In biology, the theory that states that an animal's development from embryo to adult resembles the stages in the evolution of its ancestors is commonly expressed as what three word phrase? A: """Ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny"""
Q: The common basilisk is a lizard found in Central and South American rain-forests and is known for its ability to run on water. What is its appropriate nickname? A: Jesus Christ lizard
Q: What is the only major planet of the Solar System that takes its English name from Greek mythology? A: Uranus
Q: The mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot is best known for his work on the geometry of what unusual shapes? A: Fractals
Q: What controversial theory in evolutionary biology proposes that most sexually reproducing species will experience little or no evolutionary change and remain in an extended state called stasis? A: Punctuated equilibrium
Q: The Danjon Scale is a five-point scale for measuring the appearance and luminosity of a particular heavenly body during what type of event? A: Lunar eclipse
Q: Mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer that develops from the protective lining of the body's internal organs (the mesothelium) is usually caused by exposure to what substance? A: Asbestos
Q: Which lady physicist was part of the team that discovered nuclear fission for which her colleague Otto Hahn won the Nobel and is often mentioned as the most glaring example of womens scientific achievement overlooked by the Nobel committee? A: Lise Meitner
Q: Named for a scientist who discovered it in 1961, what is the term for the number of times a normal cell population will divide before it stops? A: Hayflick limit
Q: There is no such thing as knowing this a little. The 'rabbit test' developed in 1927 by Bernhard Zondek and Selmar Aschheim was used to check for what? A: Pregnancy
Q: In chemistry, what is the common name for the alkane hydrocarbons with the general formula C(n)H(2n+2), the simplest form of which is the methane (CH4) gas? A: Paraffin
Q: Were he alive in 2006, the American astronomer Clyde Tombaugh would have been disappointed as his discovery was 'dwarfed.' What did he discover in 1930? A: Pluto
Q: NASA's series of Great Observatories satellites are the following four powerful space-based telescopes. What is the missing word? (hint: An Indian-born American scientist known for his 'limit') 1. The Hubble Space Telescope 2. The Compton Gamma Ray Observatory 3. The Spitzer Space Telescope 4. ___ X-ray Observatory A: Chandra
Q: What non-technical term is given to a condition where the thumb, when extended (as in a 'thumbs-up'), stretches backwards toward the nail and outwards? A: Hitchhiker's thumb
Q: Literally meaning 'on the kidney', what hormone that participates in the 'fight or flight' response of the body is produced by the adrenal glands? A: Epinephrine
Q: Woods Hole, Massachusetts is famous for having many institutes in what field of science? A: Marine science
Q: Meaning 'indicator' in Greek, what is the part of a sundial that casts the shadow called? A: Gnomon
Q: In 1931, the American physical chemist Harold Urey demonstrated the existence of what type of 'weighty' liquid that proved important in the development of the atomic bomb? A: Heavy water
Q: Taking its name from the Latin word for magpie, what medical disorder is characterized by an appetite for non-nutritive substances (e.g., clay)? A: Pica
Q: Until it was named for a character in Ovid's Metamorphoses, what deadly disease had been called the 'French disease' in Italy and Germany, and the 'Italian disease' in France? Guess nobody wanted to associate themselves with it! A: Syphilis
Q: What algebraic system taught in present-day schools is one of the legacies of the philosopher René Descartes to which he lent his name? A: Cartesian geometry
Q: What are the four Galilean moons of Jupiter that are named after the lovers of Zeus in Greek myth? A: Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto
Q: What mathematical puzzle that consists of three pegs and a number of disks of different sizes in which the objective is to move the entire stack of disks from one peg to another is used in computer science to teach recursion to students of programming? A: Towers of Hanoi
Q: When it launched the satellite Alouette 1 in 1962, which country became the first non-superpower to enter the space race? A: Canada
Q: What non-lethal weapon was named by its inventor Jack Cover after the teen science fiction character Tom Swift? A: Taser
Q: Also the title of a 1991 Ron Howard film, what is the term for a situation which can occur when oxygen is re-introduced to a fire that is starved of it resulting in an explosive effect? A: Backdraft
Q: Derived from the name of an ancient King of Pontus, what is the practice of Mithridatism? A: Protecting oneself against a poison by gradually self-administering non-lethal amounts.
Q: What term is given to the biological phenomenon where the size of animals isolated on an island increases dramatically over generations? A: Island gigantism
Q: What potent toxin is extracted from the castor bean? A: Ricin
Q: What substance is the basis of the gold refining technique known as 'inquartation and parting' since it can dissolve silver and other base metals but not gold? A: Nitric acid
Q: What controversial form of alternative medicine that aims to treat 'like with like' traces its origins to the late 18th century when it was founded by the German physician Samuel Hahnemann? A: Homeopathy
Q: In mathematics, what is a statement that appears likely to be true but has not been formally proven to be true under the rules of mathematical logic? A: Conjecture
Q: When all their individual contributions are added up, what insects may constitute up to 15 to 25% of the total terrestrial animal biomass? A: Ants
Q: Who is the British astrophysicist who announced Einstein's Theory of General Relativity to the English-speaking world in 1919? A: Arthur Eddington
Q: What biological term from the Greek for 'virgin creation' denotes the growth and development of an embryo or seed without fertilization by a male? A: Parthenogenesis
Q: What is the most abundant protein in mammals making up about 25% of their total protein content? A: Collagen
Q: What is the common name of the Adansonia species of tree native to Africa and Australia that is noted for its capacity to store enormous quantity of water? A: Boabab
Q: What organic compound is the primary structural component of green plants and also makes-up their primary cell wall? A: Cellulose
Q: Which element is added to rubber in the vulcanization process? A: Sulphur
Q: Because of his advocation for the use of direct current (DC) for electric power distribution, Thomas Edison developed a bitter rivalry with which other genius who advocated alternating current (AC)? A: Nikola Tesla
Q: Due to its use by the ruling class to murder one another and for its potency and discreetness, which element has been called the 'Poison of Kings'? A: Arsenic
Q: What 'Z' mineral found in Yilgarn Craton, Western Australia with an age of 4.404 billion years might be the oldest mineral on earth? A: Zircon
Q: What nutrients required by the human body for metabolic reactions are classified as water-soluble and fat-soluble? Did you take yours today? A: Vitamins
Q: What is the largest living sub-species of the tiger? A: Siberian tiger
Q: What is the largest species of the salmon family that also shares its name with an Indian tribe? A: Chinook
Q: What was discovered by Heike Kamerlingh Onnes in 1911 when he was studying the resistance of solid mercury at cryogenic temperatures? A: Superconductivity
Q: In 1949, what process developed by Willard Libby revolutionized archaeology? A: Radiocarbon dating
Q: Olympus Mons is the tallest known volcano and mountain in our Solar System. Where is it located? A: Mars
Q: Which element gets its name from the Greek for 'acid producer' because the scientist Lavoisier who named it erroneously thought that it was a constituent of all acids? A: Oxygen
Q: What rare form of headache whose name refers to its tendency to occur periodically has been called by some experts as the most painful condition known to medical science? A: Cluster headache
Q: The Klein bottle which has no distinction between inside and outside surfaces can be made by gluing two of what similar objects? A: Möbius strips
Q: What breed of sheep that is also the most numerous in the world is prized for its wool? A: Merino
Q: In the general theory of relativity, what is the term for a boundary in spacetime beyond which events cannot affect the observer? A: Event horizon
Q: Which phrase, also the title of a 2004 Ashton Kutcher movie, encapsulates the notion of 'sensitive dependence on initial conditions' of Chaos theory? A: Butterfly effect
Q: How many operational space shuttles were built by NASA? A: Five
Q: What scale measures cola at 2.5, orange juice at 3.5, beer at 4.5, coffee at 5.0, tea at 5.5, milk at 6.5 and blood at nearly 7.4? A: pH scale
Q: The name of which artificial satellite constellation system was taken from the name of the element with atomic number 77? A: Iridium
Q: In the human brain, what is the area that is involved in language processing, speech production and comprehension? A: Broca's area
Q: What neurological syndrome caused by severe mercury poisoning is named after a Japanese city where it was first discovered? A: Minamata disease
Q: What is the term for the time that it takes an object to make one full orbit around the Sun, relative to the stars? A: Sidereal period
Q: True versatility! Which actress achieved her biggest success in Samson and Delilah and co-invented the first form of spread spectrum, a key to modern wireless communication? A: Hedy Lamarr
Q: What appropriately named spacecraft launched in 1972 has become the first artificial object to leave the Solar System? A: Pioneer 10
Q: What did Edwin Land invent because of his daughters' wish for instant and 'snappy' results? A: Polaroid photography
Q: What type of diet is ophiophagy, notably practiced by the king cobra? A: Snake eating
Q: Endemic to New Zealand and currently listed as critically endangered, the kakapo is world's only flightless species of which common bird? A: Parrot
Q: The use of what equipment in cricket which has come to sad attention in Nov, 2014 was pioneered into regular usage by English batsman Dennis Amiss? A: Helmet
Q: Think outside Scandinavia. What is the only country that won a gold medal at every Winter Olympics? A: USA
Q: What is the name of the Hungarian-born American professor whose rating system was approved at a meeting of the United States Chess Federation in St. Louis in 1960? A: (Arpad) Elo
Q: "Who along with Mel Hausner, Lloyd S. Shapley and Martin Shubik invented a board game called ""So Long Sucker"" in 1950 which involves game theory strategies?" A: John Forbes Nash
Q: Naismith's rule, not connected with basketball, is a rule of thumb that helps plan what popular activity? A: Hiking
Q: Which land-locked European country whose teams have excelled in water polo and fencing holds the record for having won the most medals of any nation to never host the Olympics? A: Hungary
Q: When legendary Finnish athlete Paavo Nurmi was asked about the reason for his success at the 1924 Olympics despite high-heat conditions, he mentioned what tradition of his country as part of his training? A: Sauna
Q: "Nelson Mandela once gave the South African rugby player Francois Pienaar a copy of Theodore Roosevelt's ""The Man in the Arena"" speech for inspiration. In a 2009 movie adaptation however, what literary work was used instead of Roosevelt's speech?" A: The poem Invictus
Q: "In the 2014 Soccer World Cup, which country's players celebrated a victory by dancing to ""Hips Don't Lie""?" A: Colombia
Q: Bonspiel is a tournament of what Olympic sport that many people may not even consider a sport, at first glance? A: Curling
Q: Sprint events at the Olympics are usually dominated by countries from the western hemisphere. As of 2012, Susanthika Jayasinghe is the first and only Asian to win an Olympic medal in any of 100 m, 200 m or 400 m sprint events. What country did she represent? A: Sri Lanka
Q: In the Japanese fun-game of suikawari, which is similar to a piñata, what objects are typically smashed? (hint: fans of comedian Gallagher should know) A: Watermelons
Q: If the Eastbourne International serves as a warm-up event for women for Wimbledon, what is the equivalent tournament for the men? A: Queen's Club
Q: Long suffering fans of what professional team trace their woes to a curse placed in 1945 by Billy Sianis when he was asked to leave the stadium because of his maladorous goat? A: Chicago Cubs
Q: British politician Norman Tebbit created controversy in 1990 commenting on the perceived lack of loyalty of South Asian and Caribbean immigrants towards the English team playing which game? A: Cricket
Q: The strategy board game Reversi played on a 8*8 board is marketed under the name of which Shakespearean character? A: Othello
Q: The baseball player Glenn Burke is credited with pioneering what form of now ubiquitous gesture? A: High-five
Q: Used till the 2000s when it was supplanted by superior technology, what was the camera system that was used to judge service line calls in tennis which took its name from Greek myth? A: Cyclops
Q: In a 1914 chess tournament in St. Petersburg, what did Tsar Nicholas II call the five finalists Emanuel Lasker, José Raúl Capablanca, Alexander Alekhine, Siegbert Tarrasch, and Frank Marshall? A: """Grandmasters"""
Q: What word completes this unique and 'grand' list? Plexicushion, Clay, ___, Decoturf A: Grass
Q: The aquatics discipline at most Olympics and related events usually features diving, swimming, synchronized swimming and what other sport? A: Water polo
Q: The policy of banning weapons enforced in Okinawa in medieval Japan influenced the development of what combat technique from Ryukyu Islands? A: Karate
Q: In sailing, if tacking is the maneuver by which the vessel turns its bow (front side) so that the direction from which the wind blows changes sides, what is the term for doing so by turning the stern (rear)? A: Jibing
Q: What 'intoxicating' practice of the sporting world was started in 1967 by 24 Hours of Le Mans winner Dan Gurney? A: Spraying champagne
Q: In 1924, what did Grantland Rice collectively call Harry Stuhldreher, Don Miller, Jim Crowley and Elmer Layden, the name now a part of American sports lore? A: Four Horsemen
Q: Which European soccer club is named after the goddess of youth in Roman mythology whose Greek equivalent name is Hebe? A: Juventus
Q: A one-hole course at Camp Bonifas that is surrounded by minefields prompting Sports Illustrated to call it 'the most dangerous hole in golf' is at what Asian location? A: Korean Demilitarized Zone
Q: The MacRobertson Shield is the premier tournament in what sport a surreal version of which was played with animals in a beloved 19th century classic? A: Croquet
Q: From 1928 until 2000, the obverse side of Olympic medals contained an image of which person seen holding a winners crown in her right hand? A: Nike, the Greek goddess of victory
Q: What equestrian category that combines dressage, cross-country, and show jumping is called the triathlon of that sport? A: Eventing
Q: When its big neighbor made its debut at the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, this country was asked to use a different name. It refused and thus became the only country to boycott the Winter Olympics. What is the country in question? A: Taiwan
Q: In which Olympic sport do participants wear an electrically conductive jacket called a lamé to define the scoring areas? A: Fencing
Q: Which quotable sportsman got his nickname from a friend who said that he resembled a Hindu holy man whenever he sat around waiting to bat, or while looking sad after a losing game? A: 'Yogi' Berra
Q: Using 'games' as a clue, fill in the missing word. ___, Pythian, Nemean, Isthmian A: Olympic
Q: A 1993 spectator sport popularity study that was called the largest of its kind ranked what sport as the 2nd most popular in the US, just behind NFL? A: Ladies' figure skating
Q: Literally meaning 'seven boards of skill', which Chinese puzzle game's objective is to create a shape using seven non-overlapping flat pieces? A: Tangram
Q: The American showman Ely Culbertson is credited with popularising which sport/pastime? A: Contract bridge
Q: Which sports locale is known for its Amen Corner, The Big Oak Tree and the Eisenhower tree? A: Augusta National Golf Club
Q: Which Grand Slam tournament uses the distinctive serving pose of the Swedish player Stefan Edberg on its logo? A: Australian Open
Q: Which French word that means 'to rescue' is a practice that allows participants to continue to the next round in a competition if they failed to meet qualifying standards only by a small margin? A: Repechage
Q: Dhyan Chand of India is regarded as the greatest player of all time in which Olympic sport? A: Hockey
Q: Duke Kahanamoku, an Olympic swimming champion during the years of 1912 and 1924 is credited with popularizing which sport? A: Surfing
Q: Shakehand and penhold grips are used in which sport? A: Tabletennis
Q: Chuck Wepner, an obscure boxer from New Jersey who once went 15 rounds with Muhammad Ali in a fight served as the inspiration for the creation of what on-screen personality? A: Rocky
Q: In 1956, while he was a race car builder at Kurtis Kraft (a famous builder of Indy race cars during the 1950s), Art Ingels assembled the first one of what? A: Go-kart
Q: Senet is a grid game for two players and is thought to be the oldest board game in the world. In which country did it originate? A: Egypt
Q: What is the only country to have won at least one gold at every Summer Olympics? A: Great Britain
Q: Which South Pacific island belonging to Vanuatu is known for being the spiritual birthplace of bungee jumping, originating in an age-old ritual called the naghol? A: Pentecost Island
Q: The 'Aussie Round' is considered by many to be the ultimate test of skills in this field where an object should cross a 50 metre circle and come right back to the centre. What is the object in question? A: Boomerang
Q: After the Olympics, what are the world's second-largest multi-sport event, the Delhi edition of which was in the news in 2010? A: Commonwealth Games
Q: Which land area near Wendover, Utah that is marked out for motor sports is particularly noted as the venue for numerous land speed records? A: Bonneville Speedway
Q: You cannot be serious. According to the DVD interview of the movie Amadeus, Tom Hulce studied which tennis star's mood swings for his portrayal of Mozart's unpredictable genius? A: John McEnroe
Q: In 1999, which tennis player ranked No.3 became the highest ranked player ever to announce retirement from the sport at that time? This record was broken by No.1 Justine Henin in 2008. A: Steffi Graf
Q: In curling, what is the name given to the target area towards which teams slide polished granite stones? A: House
Q: Which Swede is the only man in tennis history to have won at least two Grand Slam singles titles on each of the three surfaces of grass, clay and hardcourt? A: Mats Wilander
Q: What medieval sport is the official sport of Maryland as well as the first to be made an official sport by an American state? A: Ring jousting
Q: What nickname was given to the New York Yankees baseball team of the late 1920s, in particular to the first six hitters in the 1927 team lineup? A: Murderer's Row
Q: The tennis player Vitas Gerulaitis was a colorful character. After finally beating Jimmy Connors after 16 straight losses, what did he quip? A: """Nobody beats Vitas Gerulaitis 17 times in a row."""
Q: Which chess opening named for a Spanish monk consists of the following moves? 1. e4, e5 2. Nf3, Nc6 3. Bb5 A: Ruy Lopez
Q: Which General led the Allied forces which recaptured the South West Pacific between 1942-45? A: DOUGLAS MACARTHUR
Q: Who was the British Foreign Secretary who cleared Kim Philby of being the 'Third Man' in the 1955 Commons debate? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: According to the proverb, what is it that pays all the debts? A: DEATH
Q: In which year did Burges and Maclean defect? A: 1951
Q: By what name is the 16th century painter Domenikos Theotokopoulos better known? A: 'EL GRECO'
Q: Which Australian river forms most of the boundary between New South Wales and Victoria? A: THE MURRAY
Q: What was the brand name of the unsuccessful Ford car that was named after Henry Ford's son? A: EDSEL
Q: What was the forename of William Shakespeare's son? A: HAMNET
Q: On which island did 'James Bond' confront actress Ursula Andress and villain 'Dr. No'? A: 'CRAB KEY'
Q: The Ebro is the second largest river in which country? A: SPAIN.
Q: In the Bible, who demanded the head of 'John the Baptist'? A: SALOME
Q: From which fruit is the drink Kirsch made? A: CHERRIES
Q: In which sport is the 'Giro D'Italia'? A: CYCLING
Q: "Who was the composer of the Oratorio, ""The Dream Of Gerontius""?" A: SIR EDWARD ELGAR
Q: Which Scandanavian was the 1998 Australian Formula One Grand Prix winner? A: MIKA HAKKINEN
Q: Who wrote the 1944 play, 'The Man Who Had All The Luck'? A: ARTHUR MILLER
Q: Which British driver was the winner of the 1999 Australian Formula One Grand Prix? A: EDDIE IRVINE
Q: Which crime writer wrote the novel 'Pagan Babies'? A: ELMORE LEONARD
Q: "Which German composer wrote ""A German Requiem""?" A: BRAHMS
Q: "Which comedy actor played 'Uriah Heap' in the 1999 BBC adaptation of ""David Copperfield""?" A: NICHOLAS LYNDHURST
Q: What nationality was golfer Bobby Locke? A: SOUTH AFRICAN
Q: From which country did former Formula One driver Denny Hulme originate? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Strongly associated with Shirley Bassey, the song 'Big Spender' comes from which musical? A: 'SWEET CHARITY'
Q: What is the medical name for Rabies? A: HYDROPHOBIA
Q: In literature, whose ghost haunted 'Macbeth'? A: BANQUO'S
Q: The song 'Hello Young Lovers', comes from which musical? A: 'THE KING AND I'
Q: What part of the body is affected by Blepharitis? A: EYELIDS.
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character 'Autolycus' appear? A: 'THE WINTER'S TALE'
Q: Which battle began on 1st. July 1916? A: THE BATTLE OF THE SOMME
Q: In 1932, Edward Elgar recorded his violin concerto, who was the sixteen year old soloist? A: YEHUDI MENUHIN
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first UK hit? A: 'HEARTBREAK HOTEL'
Q: Who was married to both Humphrey Bogart and Jason Robards? A: LAUREN BACALL
Q: By what name is Antonin Dvoraks ninth symphony known? A: 'FROM THE NEW WORLD'
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first feature film? A: 'LOVE ME TENDER'
Q: Judy Carne was the first, and Loni Anderson the second wife of which American film star? A: BURT REYNOLDS
Q: "With which ""boyband"" did singer Stephen Gateley achieve fame?" A: BOYZONE
Q: Which Gilbert and Sullivan opera has the subtitle 'Flowers Of Progress'? A: 'UTOPIA LIMITED'
Q: Which Rogers and Hammerstein musical of 1945 features the songs,'June Is Bustin' Out All Over' and 'If I Loved You'? A: 'CAROUSEL'
Q: Which country won the 'America's Cup' (yachting) in 2003? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: What is a group of Hedgehogs called? A: ARRAY
Q: During World War II, the German 'Operation Hercules' was a plan to invade which island? A: MALTA
Q: Charlie Chaplin won an 'Oscar' for the film 'Limelight', in which category? A: MUSIC SCORE
Q: Greece has land borderswith Albania, Bulgaria, Turkey and which former Yugoslav Republic? A: MACEDONIA
Q: Of which African country was Kwame Nkrumah the first President? A: GHANA
Q: Called the 'Escaut' in France, which 270 mile-long river rises in the north of that country, flows across Belgium, and empties into the North Sea in Holland? A: SCHELDE
Q: Who wrote 'Where Have All The Flowers Gone'? A: PETE SEEGER
Q: What breed of dog is 'Snoopy' in the 'Peanuts' cartoon? A: BEAGLE
Q: In which 1972 John Boorman film is a leading character, played by Ned Beatty, raped by a 'Hillbilly'? A: 'DELIVERANCE'
Q: Where in Britain would you find 'The Backs' and the 'Bridge of Sighs'? A: CAMBRIDGE
Q: In which 1992 'Oscar' winning film does Clint Eastwood play aformer hired killer turned unsuccessful farmer who returns to his old ways inpursuit of a $1000 reward? A: 'UNFORGIVEN'
Q: Which Lerner and Loewe musical of 1958 features the songs 'The Night They Invented Champagne' and 'IRemember It Well'? A: 'GIGI'
Q: Apart from fish, what is the characteristic ingredient of 'Sole Veronique'? A: GRAPES
Q: Which member of the House of Lords and an ex-MP, celebrated his 100th birthday in November 1984? A: 'MANNY' SHINWELL
Q: Broccoli and Cauliflower are members of which vegetable family? A: BRASSICA
Q: Which Gilbert and Sullivan opera has the subtitle 'The Statutory Duel'? A: 'THE GRAND DUKE'
Q: Who was on the English throne 1272 - 1307? A: EDWARD I
Q: What name is given to a flock or gathering of Starlings? A: MURMURATION
Q: In 1960, who became the first President of the newly independent Zaire. A Moscow University was named after him? A: PATRICE LUMUMBA
Q: Slovenia has land borderswith Austria, Hungary, Italy and which former Yugoslav republic? A: CROATIA
Q: During World War II, the Allies 'Operation Olympic', was a plan to invade which country? A: JAPAN
Q: In which cartoon strip does a dog called 'Boot' appear? A: 'THE PERISHERS'
Q: What is the capital of Slovakia? A: BRATISLAVA
Q: The liqueur Curacao is traditionally flavoured with sugar and which fruit? A: ORANGE
Q: Barbara Stanwyck played ranch owner 'Victoria Barclay' in which TV series? A: 'THE BIG VALLEY'
Q: With which sport do you associate the 'Duckworth-Lewis System'? A: CRICKET
Q: Whose 'Symphony No.8' is known as the 'Symphony of a Thousand'? A: MAHLER
Q: Which Middle Eastern capital city is served by 'Queen Alia Airport'? A: AMMAN , Jordan
Q: Who resigned as a government minister over 'The Sarah Keays Affair'? A: CECIL PARKINSON
Q: Which is the most northerly of the major lakes of the Lake District? A: BASSENTHWAITE
Q: Name the Greek equivalentof the Roman god Mars? A: ARES
Q: In pop music, who went for a stroll down 'Baker Street' in 1978? A: GERRY RAFFERTY
Q: Who wrote the folk music classic, 'Streets Of London'? A: RALPH McTELL
Q: Who played the role of 'Dr. Edward Fitzgerald' in a highly acclaimed TV drama series? A: ROBBIE COLTRANE
Q: Who created the cartoon character 'Blondie'? A: CHIC YOUNG
Q: In the Bible, what was the name of Cain's first born son? A: ENOCH
Q: Which song provided a hit in 1958 for both English comedian Charlie Drake and US singer Bobby Darin? A: 'SPLISH SPLASH'
Q: What type of birds are 'Ratites'? A: FLIGHTLESS
Q: Which male Tennis player won eight 'Grand Slam' singles titles between 1985 and 1990, but never won Wimbledon? A: IVAN LENDL
Q: Which US soft drink was invented by Caleb Brabham, and was originally sold under the name of 'Brad's Drink'? A: PEPSI-COLA
Q: Whose voice was used for the character 'Musafa' in the film 'The Lion King'? A: JAMES EARL JONES
Q: Which motor company owns the luxury car maker, 'Lexus'? A: TOYOTA
Q: Point Barrow is the most northerly point of which country? A: U.S.A
Q: Which standard item of office stationery was discovered accidentally in 1970 by US chemist Spencer Silver working for the 3M Corporation? A: POST-IT NOTES
Q: Which song provided a hit in 1956 for both English comedian Dave King and US singer/actor Dean Martin? A: 'MEMORIES ARE MADE OF THIS'
Q: "Who is credited with first use of the expression ""Fools rush in where angels fear to tread""?" A: ALEXANDER POPE
Q: Which huntsman in Greek mythology was turned into a stag and was torn to pieces after surprising the goddess Artemis bathing? A: ACTAEON
Q: What article of clothing was created in 1946 by engineer Louis Reard and fashion designer Jacques Heim? A: THE BIKINI
Q: 'I Dreamed A Dream' and 'Bring Him Home' are two songs from which musical? A: 'LES MISERABLES'
Q: On a three-masted sailing ship, what name is given to aftermost mast? A: THE MIZZEN MAST
Q: Which motor company owns the truck maker, 'Scania '? A: SAAB
Q: How many banks of oars did an ancient 'Quinquereme' have? A: FIVE
Q: Which New York business woman manufactured 'Aramis' for men (1943)? A: ESTEE LAUDER
Q: Africa's most westerly point Cape Verde, is in which country? A: SENEGAL
Q: Which painting by Van Gogh was sold at auction by Christie's of London for £24,750,000 in 1987? A: 'SUNFLOWERS'
Q: In which town are Timothy Taylor's beers produced? A: KEIGHLEY
Q: The Iris has a thick-stemmed root instead of a bulb.By what name is this 'root' known? A: RHIZOME
Q: Which Norman Mailer novel is based on a protest march? A: 'THE ARMIES OF THE NIGHT'
Q: Of which Middle Eastern country is Manama the capital? A: BAHRAIN
Q: Whose voice was used for the character 'Lord Farquaad' in the film 'Shrek'? A: JOHN LITHGOW
Q: Which confederation of North European cities dominated the Baltic and North Sea trade in the late Middle Ages? A: THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE
Q: In which town or city was Frederick Delius born? A: BRADFORD
Q: In World War II, haw was the Japanese aircraft, the Mitsubishi A6M known to the Allies? A: ZERO
Q: In the Bible, who was the first-born of Isaac? A: ESAU
Q: Give the pseudonym of J.P. Richardson, a pop singer , who dies in a plane crash in 1959? A: 'THE BIG BOPPER'
Q: Which British composer wrote 'A Child Of Our Time' incorporating Negro spirituals, in 1941? A: MICHAEL TIPPETT
Q: Henry Cooper controversially lost his British Heavyweight title in 1971, to which boxer? A: JOE BUGNER
Q: Which country music legend, who died in 2002, gave up his seat to the 'Big Bopper' on the ill fated plane? A: WAYLON JENNINGS
Q: Which moon of Jupiter shares its name with the alias of a character in Shakespeare's 'As You Like It'? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Which English novelist, born in Manchester in 1917, had the real name John A.B. Wilson? A: ANTHONY BURGESS
Q: Which former chart-topping British duo re-formed in 1999 to record an album entitled 'Peace'? A: 'EURYTHMICS'
Q: Which of the wives of Henry VIII was born in Madrid in 1485? A: CATHERINE OF ARAGON
Q: Which American medical drama series is set in the 'Seattle Grace Hospital'? A: 'GREY'S ANATOMY'
Q: Which fruit is used to flavour the liqueur 'Triple Sec'? A: ORANGE
Q: Which American medical drama series is set in the 'Sacred Heart Hospital'? A: 'SCRUBS'
Q: With which fruit is the liqueur 'Creme de Cassis' made? A: BLACKCURRANT
Q: Which of the wives of Henry VIII was born on the outskirts of Dusseldorf in 1515? A: ANNE OF CLEVES
Q: Who scored the only goal when Manchester United defeated Everton in the 1985 FA Cup Final? A: NORMAN WHITESIDE
Q: Which pre-Socratic philosopher, born in the city of Miletus in the 7th century BC, is regarded as 'The Father of Science' and the first modern western philosopher? A: THALES
Q: In which German city are the headquarters of the car maker BMW? A: MUNICH
Q: The Halogens are Fluorine, Bromine, Iodine, Astatine and which other element? A: CHLORINE
Q: Which Greek philosopher, born in the ancient town of Elea in the 56th century BC, was described by Aristotle as 'The Inventor Of Dialect' but is best known for his paradoxes? A: ZENO
Q: In which German city are the headquarters of the car maker Mercedes-Benz? A: STUTTGART
Q: The Noble gases are Helium, Neon, Krypton, Xenon, Radon and which other element? A: ARGON
Q: In 1960, Kwame Nkrumah became the first President of which country? A: GHANA
Q: Which is the highest peak in the Andes? A: ACONCAGUA
Q: In 1966, Seretse Khama became the first President of which country? A: BOTSWANA
Q: Which is the highest peak in the Caucasus Mountains? A: ELBRUS
Q: One of the 'Five K's', what name is given to the strapped sword that must be worn by all Sikhs? A: KIRPAN
Q: To which organ of the body does the adjective Pulmonary refer? A: LUNGS
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name of the wife of Orpheus whom he attempted to rescue from the Underworld? A: EURYDICE
Q: Reaching number 7 in the charts in 1993, 'Creep' was the first UK top ten hit for which group? A: RADIOHEAD
Q: The 'Quagga', that became extinct in 1873, was a subspecies of which mammal? A: PLAINS ZEBRA
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the beautiful Trojan prince who was carried off by Zeus to become cup-bearer to the gods? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Reaching number 3 in the charts in 1998, 'The Bartender And The Thief' was the first UK top ten hit forwhich group? A: STEREOPHONICS
Q: The 'Baiji' that became extinct in 2006, was a species of which mammal? A: DOLPHIN
Q: To which organ of the body does the adjective 'Hepatic' refer? A: LIVER
Q: The plot of which animated sit-com revolves around the employees of the 'Planet Express' delivery company? A: 'FUTURAMA'
Q: Deriving from the Greek for 'thick', what name is given to any class of sub-atomic particle that is composed of quarks, and is thus affected by the strong nuclear force? A: HADRON
Q: Which fashion designer founded the Kings Road clothes shop Bazaar in 1955? A: MARY QUANT
Q: What is the surname of the title character in Thomas Hardy's novel 'Jude The Obscure'? A: 'FAWLEY'
Q: Prior to the introduction of the Euro, which coin was equal to one-hundredth of a French Franc? A: CENTIME
Q: Who wrote the 1905 opera 'The Merry Widow'? A: FRANZ LEHAR
Q: Which kitchen appliance was invented by Percy Spencer in 1945? A: MICROWAVE OVEN
Q: In March 2009, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Omar Hassan al-Bashir, the President of which African country? A: SUDAN
Q: What was the name of the play known to have been written by Shakespeare as a sequel to 'Love's Labour's Lost', but for which no manuscript has ever been found? A: 'LOVE'S LABOUR'S WON'
Q: Which kitchen appliance was invented by Denis Papin in 1679? A: PRESSURE COOKER
Q: In 2009, Sean Penn won the 'Oscar' for Best Actor for his role in which film? A: 'MILK'
Q: Which batsman holds the record for the most runs in a Test career? A: SACHIN TENDULKAR
Q: Which is the brightest star in the constellation Virgo? A: SPICA
Q: 'The Lost Gardens Of Heligan' are a tourist attraction in which English county? A: CORNWALL
Q: Which bowler holds the record for the most wickets in a Test career? A: MUTTIAH MURALITHARAN
Q: In 2009, Kate Winslett won the 'Oscar' for Best Actress for her role in which film? A: 'THE READER'
Q: Which team did Tottenham Hotspur defeat on penalties to win the 1984 UEFA Cup Final? A: ANDERLECHT
Q: Which artist painted the ceiling of the Palais Garnier Opera House in Paris in 1964? A: MARC CHAGALL
Q: In which town would you find the World War I memorial, the Menin Gate? A: YPRES
Q: Who was the King of Libya who was overthrown by a military coup led by Colonel Qaddafi in 1969? A: IDRIS
Q: Deriving from the French for 'long coat', what name is given to the close-fitting, ankle length robe worn by Christian clergymen? A: CASSOCK
Q: Who was the King of Egypt who was overthrown by a military coup led by Gamel Abdel Nasser in 1952? A: FAROUK
Q: Also a three-times World Champion, which American skier won the gold medal in the Women's Downhill at the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: LINDSEY VONN
Q: Located in Norfolk and Lincolnshire, which is England's largest 'Site of Special Scientific Interest'? A: THE WASH
Q: Also a two-time World Champion, which American skier won the gold medal in the Men's Combined at the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: BODE MILLER
Q: Also featuring 'Dizzee Rascal', who had a number two hit in February 2010 with 'You Got The Dirtee Love'? A: 'FLORENCE AND THE MACHINE'
Q: Which peninsular on the south coast of Glamorgan in Wales was the first area of the United Kingdom to be designated as an 'Area Of Outstanding Natural Beauty'? A: GOWER PENINSULA
Q: Said to be made of imperishable gold and as swift as any bird, what was the name given to the winged sandals worn by the Greek god 'Hermes'? A: 'TALARIA'
Q: After Mexico and Spain, which country has the third largest Spanish-speaking population? A: COLUMBIA
Q: What five word name is given to the 5th century massacre of British chieftains by the Saxons, the 1934 purge of Hitler's opponents in Germany, and the 1962 dismissal of seven Cabinet ministers by Harold Macmillan? A: 'NIGHT OF THE LONG KNIVES'
Q: Which late 19th and early 20th century art movement takes its name from the French for 'wild beasts'? A: FAUVISM
Q: Named after the German for 'whirlpool', what name is given to the dessert that consists of a baked roll of thin pastry with a fruit filling? A: STRUDEL
Q: Which hard ring-shaped bread product takes its name from the Old German for 'bracelet'? A: BAGEL
Q: Who directed the 2010 fantasy film 'Alice In Wonderland', starring Mia Wasikowska and Johnny Depp amongst others? A: TIM BURTON
Q: Arthur Thistlewood was the main conspirator in which plot of 1820? A: 'CATO STREET CONSPIRACY'
Q: Who directed the 2010 psychological thriller 'Shutter Island', starring Leonardo di Caprio? A: MARTIN SCORSESE
Q: "Which Shakespearean character dies with the words, ""The rest is silence""?" A: 'HAMLET'
Q: The musical 'Fiddler On The Roof' was inspired by a painting by which artist? A: MARC CHAGALL
Q: Which character was revealed as the murderer of 'Archie Mitchell' in the first ever live 'Eastenders' episode in February 2010? A: 'STACEY SLATER'
Q: Bergamo, Brescia and Cremona are three of the largest cities in which Italian region? A: LOMBARDY
Q: In which English county could you visit the 'Museum of Witchcraft', the 'Barbara Hepworth Museum' and the 'King Edward Mining Museum'? A: CORNWALL
Q: In which Dickens novel do we find the sanctimonious architect and surveyor named 'Seth Pecksniff'? A: 'MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT'
Q: Which British scientist discovered and studied hydrogen, was the first to measure Newton's gravitational constant, and calculated the mass and mean density of the Earth? A: HENRY CAVENDISH
Q: In which of Charles Dickens' novels would you find 'Joe'. an extremely fat boy who can fall asleep in any situation at any time of day? A: 'THE PICKWICK PAPERS'
Q: In which English county could you visit the 'Fox Talbot Museum', the 'Museum of Computing', and the 'Kennet and Avon Canal Museum'? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Which of Puccini's operas was left unfinished at his death and later completed by Franco Alfano? A: 'TURANDOT'
Q: Which South African author was the first person to win the Booker Prize twice with his novel 'Disgrace'? A: J.M. COETZEE
Q: Which fairytale character was the subject of operas by both Rossini and Massenet? A: 'CINDERELLA'
Q: Polaris is the brightest star in which constellation? A: URSA MINOR
Q: Who was appointed the first permanent President of the European Council in November 2009? A: HERMAN VAN ROMPUY
Q: Which river forms much of the boundary between Norfolk and Suffolk? A: WAVENEY
Q: Who was the semi-legendary Anglo-Saxon ruler of Kent of the 5th century, who along with his brother Horsa, was hired by the British warlord Vortigern to fight against the Picts? A: HENGEST
Q: Which river forms much of the boundary between Devon and Cornwall? A: TAMAR
Q: In which Spanish city was Pablo Picasso born? A: MALAGA
Q: Which Scottish football team plays its home games at Tynecastle? A: HEARTS
Q: Nadia Comaneci made her name in which sport? A: GYMNASTICS
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the clothing company 'H & M'? A: SWEDEN
Q: Which 'Dr. Who' actor came between Patrick Troughton and Tom Baker? A: JON PERTWEE
Q: Which Frenchman composed the 'Symphonie Fantastique'? A: HECTOR BERLIOZ
Q: What was the middle name of the decorative artist Louis Tiffany? A: COMFORT
Q: Which king excluded his wife, Caroline of Brunswick, from his Coronation? A: GEORGE IV
Q: Which country is served by Keflavik International Airport? A: ICELAND
Q: In Rudyard Kipling's story, what was 'Rikki Tikki Tavi'? A: A MONGOOSE
Q: On a menu, what would you be eating if served 'Calamari'? A: SQUID
Q: Which recent BBC drama starring Hermione Norris and Liam Cunningham was set on the planet Carpathia? A: 'OUTCASTS'
Q: Who played the title role in the 1938 film 'The Adventures Of Robin Hood'? A: ERROL FLYNN
Q: At which ground in Rome do Italy play home games in the Six Nations Rugby Union tournament? A: STADIO FLAMINIO
Q: In the Bible, who bore Abraham a son called Ishmael? A: HAGAR
Q: Appointed by the Continental Congress in 1775, who was the first US Postmaster General? A: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Q: Which of Marilyn Monroe's husband's is mentioned by name in the song 'Mrs. Robinson'? A: JOE DiMAGGIO
Q: What does a 'Galanthophile' collect? A: SNOWDROPS
Q: Born in Lima in 1954, what is the profession of Mario Testino? A: PHOTOGRAPHER
Q: Gene Hackman won the Best Actor 'Oscar' for his role as 'Popeye Doyle' in which film? A: 'THE FRENCH CONNECTION'
Q: Tillakaratne Dilshan scored the most runs (500) in the 2011 Cricket World Cup. What nationality is he? A: SRI LANKAN
Q: 'Steerpike', 'Doctor Alfred Prunesquallor' and 'Fuschia Groan' are characters created by which author? A: MERVYN PEAKE
Q: The last letter of the Greek alphabet is Omega. Which other letter, the 15th, also begins with the letter 'O'? A: OMICRON
Q: Which 1935 film of a Tolstoy tragedy starred Greta Garbo? A: 'ANNA KARENINA'
Q: The largest capacity stadium in the NFL is the FedEx Field in Landover, Maryland. Which team play there? A: WASHINGTON REDSKINS
Q: Who was the UK Postmaster General from 1964 to 1966 and the Minister of State for Technology from 1966 to 1970? A: TONY BENN
Q: In which North Wales town is the longest pier in Wales? A: LLANDUDNO
Q: How many 'Red Balloons' did Nena sing about in 1983? A: 99
Q: """On a tree by a river a little tom-tit sang 'Willow, titwillow, titwillow!"" is the opening of a song from which work by Gilbert and Sullivan?" A: 'THE MIKADO'
Q: Which African political leader's middle name is Rolihlahla? A: NELSON MANDELA
Q: Prince George of Denmark was the husband of which queen, fathering 17 children who all died before him? A: QUEEN ANNE
Q: Roissy/Charles de Gaulle and Le Bourget are two of Paris' airports. Name the third? A: ORLY
Q: In the E.B. White novel, what type of animal was 'Stuart Little'? A: A MOUSE
Q: Which recent BBC drama starred Maxine Peake and Rupert Penry-Jones as barristers who are aiming to become QC's? A: 'SILK'
Q: Yellowknife, the capital of Canada's North West Territories, lies on the shore of which lake? A: GREAT SLAVE LAKE
Q: Mark E. Smith is a member of which band? A: 'THE FALL'
Q: His father, a former MEP, founded his own political party and stood as an MP. His mother has a London nightclub named after her. Who is the Conservative MP for Richmond Park, first elected at the 2010 General Election? A: ZAC GOLDSMITH
Q: Katherine Hepburn won an 'Oscar' for her portrayal of Henry II's wife, Eleanor, in which 1968 film? A: 'THE LION IN WINTER'
Q: Indian Virender Sehwag with 175 made the highest score in the 2011 Cricket World Cup. Which English player with 158 made the second highest score? A: ANDREW STRAUSS
Q: Who played 'Aunt Sally', to Jon Pertwee's 'Worzel Gummidge'? A: UNA STUBBS
Q: Whose Symphony #45 is called 'The Farewell'? A: JOSEPH HAYDN
Q: The headquarters building of which government agency is known as 'The Doughnut' due to its shape? A: G.C.H.Q
Q: Burgess, Philby, Maclean...... . Who was known as the 'Fourth Man'? A: ANTHONY BLUNT
Q: Which South American country which has had currencies the Cruzeiro and the Cruzado, now uses the Real? A: BRAZIL
Q: In which Lancashire town is Happy Mount Park? A: MORECAMBE
Q: How many matches are there in the 5th Round of the FA Cup? A: 8
Q: Which comedian created the character 'Cosmo Smallpiece'? A: LES DAWSON
Q: Which 1932 novel has characters 'Flora Poste', 'Seth Starkadder' and 'Adam Lambsbreath'? A: 'COLD COMFORT FARM'
Q: Which US space project came between 'Mercury' and 'Apollo'? A: 'GEMINI'
Q: Which king was married to Mary of Teck? A: GEORGE V
Q: Which Prime Minister was MP for two Birmingham constituencies - Ladywood from 1918 to 1929, then Edgebaston from 1929 to 1940? A: NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
Q: On the sleeve of the 'Beatles' album 'Abbey Road', who has a cigarette in his right hand? A: PAUL McCARTNEY
Q: South African born Matt Stevens won a Gold Medal in the Choir Olympics when at school. At which sport does he play for England? A: RUGBY UNION
Q: Which is the most easterly of these Libyan cities: Benghazi, Misrata, Sirte, Tobruk, Tripoli? A: TOBRUK
Q: Which England spin bowler won 'Beard of the Year' in 2006? A: MONTY PANESAR
Q: In the 2009 film 'The Gruffalo', who voiced the 'Gruffalo'? A: ROBBIE COLTRANE
Q: To which former model is singer Jamie Cullum married? A: SOPHIE DAHL
Q: Much of the action in Shakespeare's 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' is set in a wood near which city? A: ATHENS
Q: The 'Numbat' is a small mammal native to which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: A character from which Roald Dahl work appeared on a 1st. class issued in January? A: 'CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY'
Q: Who played 'Tim the Enchanter' in the film 'Monty Python and the Holy Grail'? A: JOHN CLEESE
Q: Who was the 'Muse of Tragedy'? A: MELPOMENE
Q: Who wrote the plays 'Relatively Speaking' and 'Absent Person Singular'? A: ALAN AYCKBOURN
Q: 'A' is the lowest band for Council Tax in England. What is the highest? A: 'H'
Q: An image of which building designed by Sir Basil Spence appeared on a stamp issued in February? A: COVENTRY CATHEDRAL
Q: Which is Israel's southernmost city, located on the Red Sea? A: EILAT
Q: Michael Watson won the Helen Rollason Award in 2003 for completing the London Marathon, despite being told that he would never walk again following an injury in which sport? A: BOXING
Q: Which actress is married to singer Chris Martin? A: GWYNETH PALTROW
Q: The 'Leonardo Express' links which capital city with its largest airport? A: ROME
Q: Which England batsman was a chorister at St. Paul's Cathedral Choir School in London? A: ALASTAIR COOK
Q: Who replaced Paul Merton as the host of 'Room 101' on BBC t.v.? A: FRANK SKINNER
Q: Who is this? Lived 1736 - 1819. Born in Greenock, Inventor, Partnered Matthew Boulton? A: JAMES WATT
Q: Who voices 'Queen Lillian' in the 'Shrek' films? A: JULIE ANDREWS
Q: "In 'Fairytale Of New York' by 'The Pogues', ""the boys of the NYPD choir were singing ............"", which song?" A: 'GALWAY BAY'
Q: Which is Shakespeare's longest play with 4024 lines? A: 'HAMLET'
Q: In which 1932 novel set in the year '632 AF' (After Ford) is 'Lenina Crowe' a vaccination worker at the 'Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre'? A: 'BRAVE NEW WORLD'
Q: Cassini-Huygens is a spacecraft mission to which planet and its satellites? A: SATURN
Q: Which king was married to Alexandra of Denmark? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Following which singer's death last year did the album 'Back To Black' top the UK charts for three weeks? A: AMY WHITEHOUSE
Q: On the show for over twelve years, who is the longest serving 'Blue Peter' presenter? A: JOHN NOAKES
Q: What is the capital city of Estonia? A: TALLIN
Q: What is the name of the horse ridden by Zara Phillips, which she affectionately calls 'Noddy'? A: TOYTOWN
Q: The songs ‘Hound Dog’ and ‘Jailhouse Rock’ were written by Jerry Leiber and ______ who? A: MIKE STOLLER
Q: In which ocean is Réunion, an overseas department of France? A: INDIAN OCEAN
Q: Gertrude Ederle became the first woman to do what on August 6th 1926? A: SWIM THE ENGLISH CHANNEL
Q: Which is the only city in the Irish province of Connacht? A: GALWAY
Q: Who wrote “The Tin Drum”, published in 1959, part of the “Danzig Trilogy”? A: GÜNTER GRASS
Q: How is Jordan Belfort, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, described in the title of a recent film? A: THE WOLF OF WALL STREET
Q: Which Olympic sport is governed by the WTF? A: TAEKWONDO
Q: Give either of the forenames of author A S Byatt. A: ANTONIA SUSAN
Q: Stella McCartney became Creative Director of which Paris Fashion House in 1997? A: CHLOÉ
Q: Since 1961 what has been the name of the city known from 1589 to 1925 as Tsaritsyn? A: VOLGOGRAD
Q: Which motorway crosses the original Severn Bridge – the M4 was diverted when the second crossing opened? A: M48
Q: Which future England football manager played in the team beaten 6 - 3 by Hungary at Wembley in 1953? A: ALF RAMSEY
Q: Which musical by Trey Parker, Robert Lopez and Matt Stone made its London debut last year? A: THE BOOK OF MORMON
Q: According to the Gospel of Luke, in which village did two disciples meet Jesus after the resurrection and ate with him – a scene depicted by Titian, Caravaggio and others? A: EMMAUS
Q: On which national radio station does John Suchet broadcast each weekday morning? A: CLASSIC FM
Q: The Americans call this punctuation mark a period. What do we call it? A: FULL STOP
Q: Who played Nurse Mildred Ratched in the 1975 film ‘One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest’? A: LOUISE FLETCHER
Q: Who partnered John McEnroe to win 4 Wimbledon Gentlemen’s Doubles titles? A: PETER FLEMING
Q: Which composer became Vice-Kapellmeister to the House of Esterházy in 1761, then Kapellmeister five years later? A: JOSEPH HAYDN
Q: Who led a raid at Harper’s Ferry in 1859? A: JOHN BROWN
Q: What is the collective name of the two one-act plays by Terence Rattigan set in the Beauregard Private Hotel in Bournemouth? A: SEPARATE TABLES
Q: Which Conservative, the MP for Louth and Horncastle, elected in 1966, is the Father of the House of Commons? A: SIR PETER TAPSELL
Q: Give either of the forenames of author H E Bates. A: HERBERT ERNEST
Q: Uniqlo is a casualwear company based in which country? A: JAPAN
Q: Which river is spanned by the Clifton Suspension Bridge? A: RIVER AVON
Q: Which eponymous musical based on the 1963 Profumo Affair made its debut in London last year? A: STEPHEN WARD
Q: According to the Gospel of John, in which village did Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead? A: BETHANY
Q: Who became the first American woman in space on June 18th 1983? A: SALLY RIDE
Q: Emma Thompson plays which author in the recent film ‘Saving Mr Banks’? A: P L TRAVERS
Q: GEQ is the IOC code for which country? A: EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Q: ‘Houses of the Holy’ in 1973 was the fifth album released by which band, the first three contained the name of the band and the fourth was untitled? A: LED ZEPPELIN
Q: What is the surname of the character ‘Hawkeye’ in the film and TV series ‘M*A*S*H’? A: PIERCE
Q: Which country did Stephen Fleming captain in test cricket? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Abraham Lincoln served one two-year term in the House of Representatives for a district in which state? A: ILLINOIS
Q: Which Noël Coward play features the eccentric medium and clairvoyant Madame Arcati? A: BLITHE SPIRIT
Q: The Prince of Wales feathers appeared on the reverse of which coin from 1971 to 2008? A: TWO PENCE
Q: Queen Maud Land on Antarctica is a dependent territory of which country? A: NORWAY
Q: Which band of the 1980s often referred to themselves as ‘the fourth best band in Hull’? A: THE HOUSEMARTINS
Q: Which pianist who had two Number 1 hits composed the theme tune to the 1960s sitcom ‘Meet The Wife’? A: RUSS CONWAY
Q: With headquarters in Bern, Switzerland what is the official language of the U N Agency the UPU? A: FRENCH
Q: Which river splits Norfolk from Suffolk? A: Waveney
Q: Which literary character's home was Thornfield Hall? A: Mr (Edward) Rochester
Q: According to Muslin belief, who dictated the Koran to Mohammed? A: Gabriel
Q: For his role in which film did JK Simmons win the Oscar for best Supporting actor in 2015? A: Whiplash
Q: Who wrote the opera's A Village Romeo and Juliet and The Magic Fountain? A: Frederick Delius
Q: Name the year Idi Amin seize power in Uganda, barriers collapsed at Ibrox stadium killing 66 people and Joe Frazier beats Muhammed Ali on points? A: 1971
Q: In which city would you find the Tower of Belem? A: Lisbon
Q: What do American's call a Hot Dog? A: A Weenie
Q: What letter is two dot's in Morse code? A: L
Q: Who was the wife of king Priam of Troy? A: Hecuba
Q: Which element was named Dephlogisticated Air by its discoverer, the French chemist Lavoisier who gave it this common name? A: Oxygen
Q: In medicine, for what would you take a Mantoux Test? A: Tuberculosis
Q: Which group had a No 1 hit in 1982 with My camera never lies? A: Buck's Fizz
Q: What type of creature is a Queen Alexandra's Birdwing, the largest of its kind? A: A butterfly
Q: How many gallons are there in a hogshead? A: 54
Q: Galena is the most important ore of which metal? A: Lead
Q: Which English city has districts called Inglemire, Marfleet and Gipsyville? A: Hull
Q: When Great Britain beat the USA in the Davis Cup in March 2015, who was the other British singles player besides Andy Murray? A: James Ward
Q: Adrak is the Indian name for which spice? A: Ginger
Q: According to Monday's child rhyme, what is Friday's child? A: Loving and Giving
Q: Which composer wrote the Sabre Dance and the ballet Spartacus? A: Aram Khachaturian
Q: Antares is the largest star in which constellation? A: Scorpio
Q: In which island group would you find Rarotonga, Palmerston and Aitutaki? A: Cook Islands
Q: Livermorium is a new element in the periodic table named after a town in which US state? A: California
Q: Michael Fallon is Secretary of State for which department? A: Defence
Q: Camulodunum was the roman name for which town? A: Colchester
Q: In the 'Batman' stories, which character was played by Pat Hindle on screen, and by Neil Hamilton on ty? A: POLICE COMMISSIONER GORDON
Q: Which Cabinet post has been held by Stephen Byers, Peter Mandelson and Margaret Becket in recent years? A: SECRETARY OF STATE FOR TRADE AND INDUSTRY
Q: What name describes the group of chemical elements that includes Chlorine, Bromine, Iodine and Fluorine? A: HALOGENS
Q: "In 1961, who became the first London club to complete football's League and Cup ""double""?" A: TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR
Q: In 1973, which club became the first Second Division side to win the FA Cup since the war? A: SUNDERLAND
Q: Avianca is the national airline of which South American country? A: COLUMBIA
Q: Norwich South is the Parliamentary constituency of which government minister? A: CHARLES CLARKE
Q: The fifth 'Harry Potter' book is due for publication on June 21st. What is it called? A: 'HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX'
Q: "In heraldry, if an animal is depicted as ""passant"", what is it doing?" A: WALKING
Q: Which government minister is currently MP for Ashfield? A: GEOFF HOON
Q: "At this year's ""Golden Globe Awards"", which programme starring Albert Finney, won the award for best TV movie?" A: 'THE GATHERING STORM'
Q: The Colorado Beetle is a destructive pest of which crop? A: POTATO
Q: What name is given to the cold, dry, strong wind that blows down the Rhone valley to the Mediterranean coast? A: MISTRAL
Q: Which crop in particular is damaged by the Boll Weevil? A: COTTON
Q: "Named for the Spanish for ""little cake"", what name is given to a Mexican thin pancake, made from cornmeal?" A: TORTILLA
Q: May 21st. 1471, witnessed the murder by stabbing of which king in the Tower of London? A: HENRY VI
Q: Which king was murdered at Berkley Castle in September 1327? A: EDWARD II
Q: Which thick French soup, made from leeks, potatoes, chicken stock and cream, is usually served cold? A: VICHYSSOISE
Q: Which George Eliot novel was first published under the title, 'The Weaver Of Raveloe'? A: 'SILAS MARNER'
Q: The 'Pilgrim's Way' runs in an easterly direction from Winchester in Hampshire, to which city? A: CANTERBURY
Q: In which country was Mike Gatting once involved in a slanging match with Umpire, Shakoor Rana? A: PAKISTAN
Q: A favourite in Asian cookery, what fragrant herb's Latin name is Cymbopogon citratus? A: LEMON GRASS
Q: Which Puccini opera is set in a garden, in the Japanese city of Nagasaki? A: 'MADAME BUTTERFLY'
Q: "Which Mozart opera is seen as a contest between ""Good"", the priest Sarastro, and ""Evil"", the Queen of the Night?" A: 'THE MAGIC FLUTE'
Q: Which British aeronautical engineer, knighted in 1968, designed the first swing-wing aircraft? A: SIR NEVILLE BARNES WALLIS
Q: In which country is the vast plateau, known as the Nullarbor Plain? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: The Sonoran Desert, one of the world's largest, is situated in which country? A: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Q: Which 19th century monarch had a much-publicised affair with an actress called Mrs. Robinson? A: GEORGE IV
Q: In 1712, who became the first engineer to introduce steam to an engine with a piston? A: THOMAS NEWCOMEN
Q: "Her portrayal of which character won Julia Roberts a ""Best Actress"" 'Oscar' in 2001?" A: ERIN BROCKOVICH
Q: The 'Bullet Train' of Japan runs between Tokyo and which other city? A: OSAKA
Q: A British pair won the mixed doubles at the 1987 Wimbledon Tennis Champioships, Jeremy Bates and who elase? A: JO DURIE
Q: Who starred as 'Arthur Parker', a sheet music salesman, in the Dennis Potter TV drama, 'Pennies From Heaven'? A: BOB HOSKINS
Q: Which Ian Fleming novel first introduced us to secret agent, James Bond? A: 'CASINO ROYALE'
Q: Which Dennis Potter TV drama featured Ewan McGregor as 'Private Mick Hopper'? A: 'LIPSTICK ON YOUR COLLAR'
Q: Who won Wimbledon mixed doubles titles with Paul McNamee, Mark Woodforde and Jonathan Stark? A: MARTINA NAVRATILOVA
Q: Which famous example of Indo-Islamic architecture was built between 1630 and 1653? A: THE TAJ MAHAL
Q: What food, although not rationed during the Second World War, was rationed after it? A: BREAD
Q: 'Michaelwood Services' are located on which Motorway? A: M5
Q: What was the former name of Surinam? A: DUTCH GUIANA
Q: Who was the first and only President of the Confederate States of America? A: JEFFERSON DAVIES
Q: Who manufactured the U2 spy plane in which Gary Powers was shot down in 1960? A: LOCKHEED
Q: The building originally known as the G-Mex Centre in Manchester was built on the site of which railway station? A: MANCHESTER CENTRAL
Q: Which is the only athletics world record never to have been broken at the Olympic Games? A: DISCUS
Q: Which King married Alexandra, daughter of Christian IX of Denmark? A: EDWARD VII
Q: what is the chemical symbol for Mercury? A: Hg
Q: The M32 serves which city? A: BRISTOL
Q: What make of car was JF Kennedy traveling in when he was shot dead? A: LINCOLN
Q: Which English batsman scored 70 runs in England's final 1-Day match against Australiain February 2007? A: PAUL COLLINGWOOD
Q: 'Maverick', 'Ice','Viper', 'Goose', 'Jester' and 'Cougar' were names used by various characters in which film? A: 'TOP GUN'
Q: What is the name ofthe seventh and final 'Harry Potter' book due out in July 2007? A: 'HARRY POTTER AND THE DEATHLY HOLLOWS'
Q: what is the name of the 1994 'Star Trek' film that introduced Patrick Stewart to William Shatner? A: 'GENERATIONS'
Q: Keisha Buchanan, Mulya Buena, and Siobahn Donaghy (who was replaced by Heidi Range),formed which pop group? A: 'SUGABABES'
Q: Which French painter, who lived from 1848 to 1903 evolved a style known as 'Synthetism'? A: GAUGIN
Q: In the pantomime of the same name, who is 'Aladdin's' mother? A: 'WIDOW TWANKY'
Q: Which retailer advertises itself as 'Never Knowingly Undersold'? A: JOHN LEWIS
Q: Who had a number one hit for four weeks in 2003 with 'All The Things She Said'? A: TATU
Q: Who wrote the words to 'Rule Britannia'? A: JAMES THOMSON
Q: There have been three different years in which England has had three kings, 1066 and 1936 are two of them, what is the third? A: 1483
Q: Which asteroid comes closer to earth than any other body apart from the Moon? A: 'EROS'
Q: """Robert Langdon awoke slowly"", is the first line of which novel?" A: 'THE DA VINCI CODE'
Q: Reaching to about 11 kilometres above the earth, what is the name of the lowest part of the Earth's atmosphere? A: TROPOSPHERE
Q: Piccadilly Circus lies at the junction of Haymarket, Regent Street, Piccadilly, Shaftesbury Avenue and which other street? A: COVENTRY STREET
Q: Which actor first played Tom Clancy's character 'Jack Ryan' on screen? A: ALEC BALDWIN
Q: Who was the Dutch portrait painter who became Court Painter to Charles II, and subsequently received a knighthood? A: SIR PETER LELY
Q: Which unseeded player won this year's Ladies Australian Open Tennis Championship? A: SERENA WILLIAMS
Q: From which organisation did the term 'Third Degree' meaning an interrogation, originate? A: THE FREEMASONS
Q: What is the number of the 'Starship Enterprise'? A: NCC1701
Q: In Rudyard Kipling's 'Jungle Book', what is the name of the snake? A: KAA
Q: What type of bird is an 'Egret'? A: HERON
Q: What is the name of Blackpool's airport? A: SQUIRES GATE
Q: Which actor plays the part of 'Les Battersby' in 'Coronation Street'? A: BRUCE JONES
Q: What is the name of the Chinese ladies garment with a high neckand split skirt? A: CHEONGSAM
Q: The characters 'Nelly Deane' and 'Mr. Lockwood', narrate which book? A: 'WUTHERING HEIGHTS'
Q: In which war was the Battle of Brandywine? A: AMERICAN WAR OF INDEPENDENCE
Q: In the Bible, who named all living beasts? A: ADAM
Q: Released in 2000, 'All The Small Things' was the first UK top 10 hit for which American pop-punk band? A: BLINK 182
Q: What was the name of the 1999 television series created by Russell T. Davies that chronicled the lives of three men in Manchester's gay village? A: 'QUEER AS FOLK'
Q: Released in 2001, 'Teenage Dirtbag', was the first UK top 10 hit for which American pop-punk group? A: 'WHEATUS'
Q: Which folk-hero was the subject of Rossini's final opera? A: WILLIAM TELL
Q: With an area of 820,000 square metres, which is the world's largest religious structure? A: ANGKOR WAT
Q: The Ituri Rainforest in the Democratic Republic of Congo is the only place in the world where which mammal, that was first seen by Europeans in 1901, can be found in the wild? A: OKAPI
Q: Growing up to 22 feet longand weighing up to 11,000 lbs., which is the world's largest pinniped? A: SOUTHERN ELEPHANT SEAL
Q: Which blue pigment used in paints was discovered accidentally in Berlin in 1704 by Heinrich Diesbach and Johann Konrad Dippel? A: PRUSSIAN BLUE
Q: With over 600,000 works on display in six buildings, which museum contains the largest public collection of art in the world? A: HERMITAGE MUSEUM
Q: Which Commonwealth country is the smallest nation on mainland Africa in terms of area? A: THE GAMBIA
Q: Released in March 2008, the film 'Horton Hears A Who !',starring Jim Carrey, was based on a book of the same name by which author? A: DR. SEUSS
Q: Which novel by Thomas Hardytakes its title from a line in Shakespeare's 'As You Like It'? A: 'UNDER THE GREENWOOD TREE'
Q: Which Stanley Kubrickfilm takes its title from a line in Gray's 'Elegy Written In An English Country Churchyard'? A: 'PATHS OF GLORY'
Q: Nicknamed 'Tom Thumb of The Americas', which former Spanish colony is the smallest country in continental America? A: EL SALVADOR
Q: Artsoppa is a pea and ham soup originating in which country? A: SWEDEN
Q: In which city is the EUFA Champions League final due to beheld next month (May 2008)? A: MOSCOW
Q: Which American scientist won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1936 for his discovery of the Positron? A: CARL DAVID ANDERSON
Q: Based on a 1980 filmof the same name, what is the title of the musical written by Dolly Parton that is due to open on Broadway next year (2009)? A: '9 TO 5'
Q: Which American scientist won the Noble Prize for Physics in 1960 for his invention of the Bubble Chamber? A: DONALD ARTHUR GLASER
Q: The dish 'Rijsttafel' (Pron. rice-taffel), that takes its name from the Dutch for 'rice-table', originated in which country? A: INDONESIA
Q: The basketball team are the 'Bucks', the ice hockey team are the 'Admirals' and the baseball team are the 'Brewers'. Which city? A: MILWAUKEE
Q: In 'The Pickwick Papers', what is the name of 'Mr. Pickwick's' landlady who sues him for breach of promise to marry her? A: 'MRS. BARDELL'
Q: Which 1991 film, starring River Phoenix and Keanu Reeves, and written and directed by Gus van Sant, was loosely based on Shakespeare's 'Henry IV, Part I'? A: 'MY OWN PRIVATE IDAHO'
Q: The basketball team are the'Super Sonics', the ice hockey team are the 'Thunderbirds' and the baseball teamare the 'Mariners'. Which city? A: SEATTLE
Q: Which 1995 film, starring Alicia Silverstone, and directed by Amy Heckerling, was loosely based on Jane Austen's 'Emma'? A: 'CLUELESS'
Q: Who was the highest ranking Nazi officer to be tried at the Nuremburg Trials? A: HERMANN GORING
Q: 'Cerberus' in the 2004 film 'Man About Dog', and 'Santa's Little Helper' in 'The Simpsons' are both examples of which breed of dog? A: GREYHOUND
Q: The surname of which Wimbledon Champion can be formedusing the chemical symbols for silver, arsenic, and erbium? A: Andre AGASSI
Q: The surname of which Wimbledon Champion can be formed using the chemical symbols for beryllium, carbon, potassium and erbium? A: Boris BECKER
Q: Although not the capital, Douala is the largest city of which country? A: CAMEROON
Q: In which English city is the E4 dama series 'Skins' set? A: BRISTOL
Q: Although not the capital, Guayaquil is the largest city of which country? A: EQUADOR
Q: What is the name of the pub frequented by 'Frank Gallagher' in the Channel 4 drama series 'Shameless'? A: 'THE JOCKEY'
Q: Which moon of Uranus shares its name with 'Caliban's' mother in 'The Tempest'? A: 'SYCORAX'
Q: Dr. Byron McKeeby was the model for a figure in which painting of 1930? A: 'AMERICAN GOTHIC'
Q: The NATO membership bid of which European country was rejected earlier this month (April 2008) due to opposition from Greece? A: MACEDONIA
Q: Which country is referred to as a 'Co-Operative Republic' in its full name? A: GUYANA
Q: In which English county is Dedham Mill, made famous by the paintings of John Constable? A: ESSEX
Q: Easter Island, famous for its stone statues, is administered by which country? A: CHILE
Q: In which 2002 film and musical does a nightclub star called 'Velma' shoot dead her cheating husband? A: 'CHICAGO'
Q: Which perfume house introduced a brand called 'Amarige' in 1991? A: GIVENCHY
Q: In the folklore of which country does 'Diedre' kill hersel after being forced to marry 'King Conchobar'? A: IRELAND
Q: Bouganville, an island in the Solomon Sea, is administered by which country? A: PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Q: 'Prelude', 'Minuet', 'Claire de Lune' and 'Passé pied' are all parts of which piano suite by Debussy? A: SUITE BERGAMASQUE
Q: What is the main ingredient of the Italian dish 'Frito Misto'? A: SEAFOOD
Q: In Norse mythology, 'Baldur' the son of 'Odin', was invulnerable to everything except what? A: MISTLETOE
Q: How many points are there on a Maltese Cross? A: EIGHT
Q: In November 1943 which South American country sent 60,000 troops plus aircraft to assist allied forces in Europe? A: BRAZIL
Q: Which group had number one hits in 1966 with 'Somebody Help Me' and 'Keep On Running'? A: SPENCER DAVIS GROUP
Q: Which group had number one hits in 1974 with 'Angel Fingers' and 'See My Baby Jive'? A: 'WIZZARD'
Q: Who wrote the novels 'The Planet Of The Apes' and 'Bridge On The River Kwai'? A: PIERRE BOULLE
Q: Which sportsman won 'Strictly Come Dancing' in 2005? A: DARREN GOUGH
Q: Who wrote several books featuring the heroine 'Worrals'? A: CAPTAIN W.E. JOHNS
Q: In which year did the Ayatollah Khomeini die, American troops remove Noriega in Panama, and Alain Prost become World Motor Racing Champion for the third time? A: 1989
Q: In which year did the Bosnian Civil War begin, Steffi Graf win the Ladies Singles title at Wimbledon for the seventh time, and TWA become bankrupt? A: 1992
Q: In American Football, how many points does a touchdown score? A: SIX
Q: """If music is the food of love, play on"", is the first line of which Shakespearian play?" A: 'TWELFTH NIGHT'
Q: Who was assassinated by John Bellingham? A: SPENCER PERCIVAL
Q: Who had a number one hit for six weeks in 1973 with 'Blockbuster'? A: 'SWEET'
Q: 'Caractacus Potts' is a character from which book and film? A: 'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG'
Q: In which country was the world G7 Conference held in 2008? A: U.S.A
Q: Who married both Billy Bob Thornton and Johnny Lee Miller? A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: In which country were 63 people killed in a nightclub fire on New Year's Eve 2008? A: THAILAND
Q: What colour are the flowers of the plant Mimosa? A: YELLOW
Q: Which road in London connects Marble Arch with Hyde Park Corner? A: PARK LANE
Q: In which year did Victoria become Queen? A: 1837
Q: Which group ha a number one hit for three weeks in 1982 with 'The Lion Sleeps Tonight'? A: TIGHT FIT
Q: """Now fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour draws apace"" is the first line of which Shakespearian play?" A: 'A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM'
Q: What word connects a nuclear bomber with a radio call sign, and the television programme 'Z Cars'? A: VICTOR
Q: Gillespie Road on London's Piccadilly line was renamed to that of which soccer team? A: ARSENAL
Q: 'Dance Of The Tumblers' comes from which classical work by Rimsky Korsakov? A: 'THE SNOW MAIDEN'
Q: Which band released the album 'Pet Sounds' in 1966? A: 'THE BEACH BOYS'
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Australia from 1949 to 1966? A: ROBERT MENZIES
Q: Which football team play home games at Bloomfield Road? A: BLACKPOOL
Q: Who wrote the 1895 novel 'The Time Machine'? A: H.G. WELLS
Q: How many permanent members are there on the Security Council of the United Nations? A: FIVE
Q: Which US President was elected in 1896 and 1900? A: WILLIAM McKINLEY
Q: In which 1986 film does John Cleese play 'Brian Stimpson', the head teacher of 'Thomas Tompian School'? A: 'CLOCKWISE'
Q: Former presenters of which radio programme include Jack de Manio, Brian Redhead and John Timpson? A: TODAY (PROGRAMME)
Q: "Which bank used the slogan devised by Rod Allen, ""the listening bank""?" A: MIDLAND
Q: On which Gulf is Cameroon? A: GULF OF GUINEA
Q: What was the occupation of 'Peter Grimes' in the opera by Benjamin Britten? A: FISHERMAN
Q: In which year of the 1960's was the 'Six Day War'? A: 1967
Q: Which bird was on the reverse of the pre-decimal farthing of George VI and Elizabeth II? A: WREN
Q: What was the first name of Dickens' 'Mr. Micawber'? A: 'WILKINS'
Q: Who captained the England Test Cricket Team in Bangladesh earlier this year? A: ALASTAIR COOK
Q: Who was the voice of 'Charlie' in the TV series 'Charlie's Angels'? A: JOHN FORSYTHE
Q: Who composed 'The Sorcerer's Apprentice'? A: PAUL DUKAS
Q: Which chemical element is named after the planet discovered in 1781 by William Herschel? A: URANIUM
Q: On which Gulf is Cambodia? A: GULF OF THAILAND
Q: At what type of shop does 'Albert Herring' work, in the opera by Benjamin Britten? A: GREENGROCERS
Q: In which year of the 1970's was the 'Yom Kippur War'? A: 1973
Q: How were the Tennessee Titans NFL team known when they played in Houston? A: 'OILERS'
Q: What was the first name of Mary Shelley's 'Frankenstein'? A: 'VICTOR'
Q: 'Straddle'and 'Western Roll' were techniques used in which athletics event? A: HIGH JUMP
Q: Which US cartoon series is based around 'Peter and Lois Griffin' and their children? A: 'FAMILY GUY'
Q: In the Enid Blyton books, which child is the oldest of the 'Famous Five'? A: 'JULIAN'
Q: In the Enid Blyton books, who is the sister of 'Peter', the leader of the 'Secret Seven'? A: 'JANET'
Q: What is the surname of the central family in the US cartoon series 'American Dad'? A: 'SMITH'
Q: How are the three stars 'Alnitak', 'Alnilam' and 'Mintaka' more commonly known, collectively? A: ORION'S BELT
Q: What is the name of the high jump competition in show jumping? A: PUISSANCE
Q: "Which 1964 book by Roald Dahl begins ""These two very old people are the father and mother of Mr. Bucket""?" A: 'CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY'
Q: Who played 'Jim Phelps', the lead agent, in the TV series 'Mission: Impossible'? A: PETER GRAVES
Q: What was the name of the weekly magazine established by the BBC in 1929, which ran until 1991? A: THE LISTENER
Q: In which US state is the volcano, Mount St. Helens? A: WASHINGTON
Q: In the film 'Fantasia' which conductor 'shakes hands' with 'Mickey Mouse' at the end of 'The Sorcerer's Apprentice'? A: LEOPOLD STOKOWSKI
Q: What name is given to the Parliament, those who remained after 'Pride's Purge', dismissed by Cromwell on 20th April 1653? A: 'RUMP'
Q: Which chemical element is named after the country of birth of Marie Curie? A: POLONIUM
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Canada from 1968 to 1979? A: PIERRE TRUDEAU
Q: In which city do the Rugby League team play home games at the Don Valley Stadium? A: SHEFFIELD (Eagles)
Q: Who wrote the 1889 novel 'A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court'? A: MARK TWAIN
Q: Which actress won a worst actress 'Razzie' in 2010 for her role in the film 'All About Steve'? A: SANDRA BULLOCK
Q: How many Nobel Prizes are there? A: SIX
Q: Which character was known as 'The Fat Owl Of The Remove'? A: 'BILLY BUNTER'
Q: On which celebrity quiz are the scores kept by 'George Dawes'? A: 'SHOOTING STARS'
Q: In the USA, if you travel inland from Oregon, or Washington, which state do you enter? A: IDAHO
Q: On which course did Frankie Dettori ride all seven winners in 1996? A: ASCOT
Q: In mathematics, which letter is used for the constant which is approximately 2.7182818? A: e
Q: In motoring terms what is an 'OHC'? A: (Overhead) CAMSHAFT
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'Under The Sea' come? A: 'THE LITTLE MERMAID'
Q: In which Australian state is the town of Newcastle? A: NEW SOUTH WALES
Q: Which nursery rhyme was originally a satire on the political instability during the reign of Charles II? A: 'ROCK-A-BYE BABY'
Q: For which novel did Herman Wouk win the Pulitzer Prize in 1952? A: 'THE CAINE MUTINY'
Q: "Which work ends with the line ""They have a world to win, working men of all countries unite !""?" A: THE COMMUNIST MANIFESTO
Q: Which of the Mitford sisters married Sir Oswald Mosley? A: DIANA
Q: If a champagne is described as 'Blanc de Blancs', from what grape is it made? A: CHARDONNAY
Q: Which pop group recorded the hit album 'Back In Black' in 1980? A: AC/DC
Q: On which motorway is the Clacket Lane Service Area? A: M25
Q: On which motorway is the Leigh Delamere Service Area? A: M4
Q: Which pop group recorded the hit album 'The Lexicon Of Love'? A: ABC
Q: Syrah is a variety of grape originating from the Rhome region of France. By what name is it grown under in Australia? A: SHIRAZ
Q: In Norse mythology, who was the father of 'Odin'? A: 'BOR'
Q: Who in 2001 paid £14 million to become the first space tourist? A: DENNIS TITO
Q: 'Brontophobia' is the fear of what? A: THUNDER
Q: 'Br' is the chemical symbol for which element? A: BROMINE
Q: In which year was the English Football League founded? A: 1888
Q: Which actor's last appearance before his death in 1985 was as 'Daniel Reece' in 'Dynasty'? A: ROCK HUDSON
Q: Which actor has won a 'Golden Raspberry' award as Worst Actor on the most occasions? A: SYLVESTER STALLONE
Q: What was the first name of American President Grover Cleveland? A: STEPHEN
Q: In which year was the English Football Association founded? A: 1863
Q: In which Australian state is the town of Albany? A: WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Q: Which of the Mitford sisters wrote the semi- autobiography 'Pursuit Of Love'? A: NANCY
Q: 'Astraphobia' is the fear of what? A: LIGHTNING
Q: Which river rises in the Massif Centrale, flows north and east to enter the Bay of Biscay at St. Nazaire? A: LOIRE
Q: Which river rises in the Drakensburg Mountains, flows west entering the South Atlantic Ocean in Alexander Bay? A: ORANGE
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'A Whole New World' come? A: 'ALADDIN'
Q: What was the first name of American President Ulysses Grant? A: HIRAM
Q: Who, together with Vince Clarke, formed the pop duo 'Erasure'? A: ANDY BELL
Q: By what title was the British Prime Minister William Lamb better known? A: VISCOUNT MELBOURNE
Q: Name the internet millionaire who became the second space tourist? A: MARK SHUTTLEWORTH
Q: Which US actress and star of 'Dallas' died in August 2005? A: BARBARA BEL GEDDES
Q: Who composed both 'The Desert Song' and 'The Student Prince'? A: SIGMUND ROMBERG
Q: The 'Coast Starlight Express' runs between Los Angeles and which other city? A: SEATTLE
Q: In which year did Mother Theresa of Calcutta win the Nobel Peace Prize? A: 1979
Q: What is the capital city of the FYR of Macedonia? A: SKOPJE
Q: Which of the 'Spice Girls' advertises 'Jenny Craig' slimming meals on t.v.? A: MELANIE BROWN (Scary Spice)
Q: Which country issues a 2 Euro coin showing an eagle, surrounded by the stars of Europe? A: GERMANY
Q: With which 19th century plot was Arthur Thistlewood associated? A: CATO STREET CONSPIRACY
Q: Which British Prime Minister made the first telephone call from the Post Office Tower? A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: 'The Headhunters' are/were a gang of football hooligans who supported which London club? A: CHELSEA
Q: Who plays 'George Smiley' in the 2011 film adaptation of 'Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'? A: GARY OLDMAN
Q: Who directed the 2011 film entitled 'W.E.', based on the romance between Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson? A: MADONNA
Q: Who composed the oratorio 'Belshazzar's Feast'? A: SIR WILLIAM WALTON
Q: Which 18th century British novelist, also served as London's chief magistrate, helped found the Bow Street Runners in 1749? A: HENRY FIELDING
Q: Which city hosted the 2011 Labour Party Conference? A: LIVERPOOL
Q: Which American President made the first telephone call to the Moon? A: RICHARD NIXON
Q: Which of Henry VIII's wives is said to haunt Hampton Court? A: CATHERINE HOWARD
Q: In which English town or city is Her Majesty's Prison 'Cookham Wood'. A: ROCHESTER
Q: The Otago Stadium is staged some of the 2011 Rugby World Cup matches, in which city can it be found? A: DUNEDIN
Q: With which 17th century plot was Francis Tresham associated? A: THE GUNPOWDER PLOT
Q: The Declaration of Independence is depicted on the reverse side of which United States banknote? A: $2 BILL
Q: Who composed the oratorio 'Judas Maccabeus'? A: GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL
Q: Which company's logo was an open eye with the motto 'We Never Sleep'? A: PINKERTON DETECTIVE AGENCY
Q: What name is shared by 'the voice of the book' in the original 'Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy', a renowned football commentator, and one of television's 'Dragons'? (full name required) A: PETER JONES
Q: Which book of the Bible tells of the parting of the Red Sea? A: EXODUS
Q: The character 'James Bond' was created by Ian Fleming, but who wrote the book 'License Renewed' featuring 'James Bond'? A: JOHN GARDNER
Q: What name is given in Rugby Union to a high short punt onto or behind the defending team, it gets its name from the Irish team that favoured this tactic? A: GARRYOWEN
Q: Georgetown is the capital of which group of islands in the British West Indies? A: CAYMAN ISLANDS
Q: To what political office was Dean Rusk appointed in 1961, as a result of which he played a leading role in the 'Cuban Missile Crisis' the following year? A: U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE
Q: Which US Secretary of State resigned from Jimmy Carter's administration in 1980 over the failed attempt to rescue the US hostages in Iran? A: CYRUS VANCE
Q: In which country did Mikheil Saakashvili and his supporters enter the parliament building and demand the resignation of President Eduard Shevardnadze in 2003? A: GEORGIA
Q: Which country saw the 'Orange Revolution' of 2004, in which protestors successfully challenged a Presidential run-off election that had given victory to the pro-Russian Prime Minister, Viktor Yanukovych? A: UKRIANE
Q: Which country issues a 1 Euro coin showing an owl? A: GREECE
Q: In which English town or city is Her Majesty's Prison 'Buckley Hall'? A: ROCHDALE
Q: Which of Henry VIII wives haunts Hever Castle? A: ANNE BOLEYN
Q: Eden Park staged some of the 2011 Rugby World Cup matches, in which city can it be found? A: AUCKLAND
Q: Which book of the Bible, a collection of sayings about righteousness, follows Psalms? A: PROVERBS
Q: If you landed at 'Reina Sofia Airport' which island would you be holidaying on? A: TENERIFE
Q: Which class of birds are classed as 'raptors'? A: BIRDS OF PREY
Q: Which book of the Bible has only on chapter? A: OBADIAH
Q: What type of animal is a guanaco? A: LLAMA
Q: The film which won the Oscar for Best Picture in 1942 also featured an Academy Award winning performance from Greer Garson. What was its title? A: MRS MINIVER
Q: After the overthrow of the Manchu emperors in 1911, who became China’s first President? A: SUN YAT SEN
Q: Which garden plant has the Latin name Lathyrus Odoratus? A: SWEET PEA
Q: In what US state is Death Valley? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: Which novelist and playwright is commemorated by the Rodin sculpture which stands in the Boulevard Raspail in Paris? A: BALZAC
Q: Who was the President of the USA when Hawaii became a state? A: DWIGHT D EISENHOWER
Q: What is the name of the highest caste in Hindu society? A: BRAHMIN
Q: In which capital city are the Vondelpark gardens? A: AMSTERDAM
Q: In which business did millionaire J D Rockefeller make most of his money? A: OIL
Q: Which Shiite honorific title means ‘miraculous son of God’? A: AYATOLLAH
Q: Who designed the Crystal Palace, the Great Exhibition building of 1851? A: (Joseph) PAXTON
Q: Which garden plant has the Latin name, Galanthus Nivalis? A: SNOWDROP
Q: What was the name of Josiah Wedgwood's factory near Hanley? A: ETRURIA
Q: Which of Rodin's sculptures originally called The Poet, stands as the headstone for his grave in Meudon Cemetery? A: THE THINKER
Q: In the Bible, which general led 300 men against the Midianites? A: GIDEON
Q: Who became the first prime minister of Israel in 1948? A: DAVID BEN-GURION
Q: Which Australian city shares its name with the wife of William IV? A: ADELAIDE
Q: Four Irishmen have won the Nobel Prize for Literature, three are Shaw, Becket, Heaney who is the forth? A: YEATS
Q: By what name was Botswana known before 1967? A: BECHUANALAND
Q: Which Irish group had hits in the 1980s with the theme songs from the television programmes ‘Harry’s Game’ and ‘Robin of Sherwood’? A: CLANNAD
Q: Who was the wife of Akenhaten and mother of Tutankhamen? A: NEFERTITI
Q: Which group’s first 3 albums were: Outlandos D’amour, Regatta de Blanc and Zenyatta Mondatta? A: THE POLICE
Q: Which spirit forms the basis of a Tom Collins cocktail? A: GIN
Q: Who played Michael Collins in the film of the same name? A: LIAM NEESON
Q: Which Jewish female demon was reputedly the first wife of Adam? A: LILITH
Q: By what name was Zambia known before independence? A: NORTHERN RHODESIA
Q: Who was born Roberta Joan Anderson in November 1943? A: JONI MITCHELL
Q: For which Queen did Josiah Wedgwood, in 1765 create cream coloured earthernware known as Queensware? A: QUEEN CHARLOTTE
Q: Who designed St Pancras Station? A: (George Gilbert) SCOTT
Q: The 2001 Hindu festival of Kumbha Mela was held in which Indian city? A: ALLAHABAD
Q: In which winter resort were the 1928 Winter Olympics held? A: ST. MORITZ
Q: Where was the British Empire Exhibition held in 1924? A: WEMBLEY, LONDON
Q: In which American state would you find the Carlsbad Caverns National Park A: New Mexico
Q: In which alphabet would you find letters called daleth, zayin and teth A: Hebrew
Q: Of which team was Glen Hoddle the manager before taking the England job? A: Chelsea
Q: In which county is Fotheringay Castle A: Northamptonshire
Q: Which wine could be ruby, tawny or vintage? A: Port
Q: In which town are Moorhouses beers brewed? A: Burnley
Q: Three famous English Composers died in 1934.Gustav Holst and Edward Elgar were two - name the third? A: Frederick Delius
Q: In which British city are the areas Butetown, Splott and Roath? A: Cardiff
Q: In which area of Paris is the Basilica of Sacre Coeur? A: Montmartre
Q: "Which product was advertised to the tune of Bach's ""Air on a G- string""?" A: Hamlet Cigars
Q: "Who painted ""Beach at Touville"" and ""Towing of a Boat at Honfleur""?" A: Claude Monet
Q: Ergophobia is the morbid fear of what? A: Work
Q: Donnie Wahlberg is/was a member of which 'Boy' band? A: New Kids on the Block
Q: Of which country is Ouagadougou the capital? A: Burkina Faso
Q: Who is the patron saint for soldiers? A: Joan of Arc
Q: Who wrote the folk club classic 'Streets Of London'? A: Ralph McTell
Q: In which Parisian square is the Arc de Triomphe? A: Etoile
Q: Of which team was Kevin Keegan the manager before taking the England job? A: Fulham
Q: Which British explorer travelled disguised as a Muslim to Mecca and Medina in 1853? A: Richard Francis Burton
Q: Which town in the North West of England was known to the Romans as Luguvalum? A: Carlisle
Q: In which German city is there a suburb called Wedding? A: Berlin
Q: Three famous composers were born in 1685. Scarlatti and Bach were two, name the Third? A: Handel
Q: In which alphabet would you find letters called shin, dhal and Jim? A: Arabic
Q: In which country did the 1798 battle of Vinegar Hill take place A: Ireland
Q: "How is the following Roman-named English town or city known today ""Portus Dubris""?" A: Dover
Q: Aston Merrygold is/was a member of which boy band? A: JLS
Q: What was the RAF's first jet powered bomber? A: (English Electric) Canberra
Q: Which wine can be fino' or 'Oloroso'? A: Sherry
Q: Which Jane Austin novel is about the affairs of the heart of Eleanor and Marianne Daswood? A: Sense and Sensibility
Q: "Who wrote the plays ""Jumpers"", ""Travesties"", and ""Arcadia""?" A: Tom Stoppard
Q: On which English river does the city of Leicester stand? A: River Soar
Q: Which opera by Puccini was completed posthumously by Franco Alfano? A: 'TURANDOT'
Q: What was the name of the Indian political party led by Mahatma Ghandi for 20 years prior to India's independence? A: INDIAN NATIONAL CONGRESS PARTY
Q: In Alfred Hitchcock's film 'North By Northwest', which actress was Cary Grant saving from James Mason? A: EVA MARIE SAINT
Q: In the comedy series 'Rising Damp', what was 'Rigsby's' christian name? A: RUPERT
Q: 'Highway 61 Revisited' and 'Blood On The Tracks' were both albums released by which popular singer? A: BOB DYLAN
Q: Who was the American President during World War I? A: WOODROW WILSON
Q: Which Pete Seeger song did Marlene Dietrich record in 1962? A: 'WHERE HAVE ALL THE FLOWERS GONE'
Q: Which American President represented his country at the 'Yalta Summit' at the end of World War II? A: FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
Q: Which German aircraft company invented the 'ejector seat' in 1942? A: HEINKEL
Q: Which stretch of water off the southern tip of South America is the point where the South Atlantic meets the South Pacific? A: DRAKE'S PASSAGE
Q: Who directed the 1946 film, 'The Best Years Of Our Lives'? A: WILLIAM WYLER
Q: Which American newsman broke the news of JFK's death to the nation? A: WALTER KRONKITE
Q: In what year was Monica Seles stabbed in the back during a tennis tournament in Hamburg? A: 1993
Q: David Lean directed the 1945 film 'Brief Encounter', but who composed the incidental music and also produced the film? A: NOEL COWARD
Q: In what year did Freddie Starr's horse 'Minnehoma' win the Grand national? A: 1994
Q: In 1993 which football team lost in both the FA Cup Final and League Cup Final? A: SHEFFIELD WEDNESDAY
Q: On which island is Nagasaki the recipient of the second 'Atomic Bomb'? A: KYUSHU
Q: In which organ of the body are the hepatic arteries. A: THE LIVER
Q: Which football team in 1995 lost their last game of the season to Liverpool, but were still winners of the Premiership title? A: BLACKBURN ROVERS
Q: Where in the human body is the Carotid Artery situated? A: IN THE NECK
Q: On which island is the US naval base of Pearl Harbour? A: OAHU
Q: Which former Prime Minister of France became his country's President after the resignation of Charles de Gaulle? A: GEORGES POMPIDOU
Q: Which British driver was the winner of the Monaco Grand Prix in 1963, 64, 65, 68 and 1969? A: GRAHAM HILL
Q: Which fashion designer was responsible for the trend of slogan-bearing T-shirts in the 1980's? A: KATHERINE HAMNETT
Q: What is the occupation of a 'Funambulist'? A: TIGHTROPE WALKER
Q: Who drove in 256 Grand Prixs between 1977 and 1993, winning six races? A: RICARDO PATRESE
Q: Who was Russian President after Yuri Andropov? A: KONSTANTIN CHERNENKO
Q: Dundalk is the county town of which county in the Republic of Ireland? A: LOUTH
Q: Who wrote the novel, 'The Tenant Of Wildfell Hall'? A: ANNE BRONTE
Q: The Aran Islands stand in the mouth of which Irish Bay? A: GALWAY BAY
Q: in which novel does 'Rawdon Crawley' marry 'Becky Sharpe'? A: 'VANITY FAIR'
Q: In which 1994 film does Jim Carey play the part of 'Stanley Ipkiss'? A: 'THE MASK'
Q: Which rock star and actor was born Marvin Lee Aday? A: MEATLOAF
Q: What does the legal term 'Caveat Emptor' mean? A: LET THE BUYER BEWARE
Q: Which English king was known as 'Lackland'? A: KING JOHN
Q: To which English monarch was Mary of Teck, consort? A: GEORGE V
Q: Who played the part of Steve Biko in the film 'Cry Freedom'? A: DENZIL WASHINGTON
Q: In which African National Park is the tourist camp of Skukuza? A: KRUGER NATIONAL PARK
Q: In which industry would you use Neroli oil? A: PERFUMERY
Q: John Piper was the designer of the stained-glass window in which English cathedral? A: COVENTRY
Q: 'Beauty Of Bath', 'Discovery', 'James Grieve', and 'Lord Lambourne' are all varieties of which fruit grown outdoors in the UK? A: APPLE
Q: Gilbert Scott was the architect of which English Anglican cathedral? A: LIVERPOOL
Q: She and her alto egofirst appeared in 1941 in 'All Star Comics', the creation of Chester Gould. Who is she? A: 'WONDER WOMAN'
Q: In 1997, Plymouth the capital of the Caribbean island of Montserrat was virtually buried after the eruption of which volcano? A: SOUFRIERE HILLS
Q: Created by Alex Raymond, this futuristic character first appeared in 1934. Who is he? A: 'FLASH GORDON'
Q: In Arthurian Legend of English source, three knights of Arthur achieved The Holy Grail, Sir Bors and Sir Galahad are two, who was the third? A: SIR PERCIVAL
Q: Which football club did 'Big Sam' Allardice leave to manage Bolton? A: NOTTS COUNTY
Q: In which city did the assassination of Martin Luther King? A: MEMPHIS, Tennessee
Q: What name links the Apollo 15 space ship with that of seafarer Captain Cook? A: ENDEAVOUR
Q: Steve Bruce left his role as player-manager of Sheffield Wednesday to manage which club? A: HUDDERSFIELD TOWN
Q: RAF Waddington is in which English county? A: LINCOLNSHIRE.
Q: Bywhat name was Sir Francis Drake's ship known before he circumnavigated the world? A: PELICAN
Q: Who played the part of 'Valerie Barlow's' uncle in 'Coronation Street'? A: JACK HOWARTH
Q: In which conflict did the Battle of Towton take place? A: WAR OF THE ROSES
Q: In which organ of the body are the 'Islets of Langerhans'? A: THE PANCREAS
Q: Of which planet is'Desdemona' a satellite? A: URANUS
Q: Who played the original landlord of the 'Rovers Return' in 'Coronation Street'? A: ARTHUR LESLIE
Q: 'Janus' was discovered in 1966.It is a moon of which planet? A: SATURN
Q: In which part of the body is the 'Hypothalamus'? A: THE BRAIN
Q: On which river is the City of Lincoln? A: WITHAM
Q: The Whitsunday Islands lieoff the coast of which Australian state? A: QUEENSLAND
Q: On which river is the market town of Welshpool? A: SEVERN
Q: Darts. Who in 1984, achieved the first televised nine- dartfinish? A: JOHN LOWE
Q: What type of bird is a 'Lammergeier'? A: VULTURE
Q: In which sport is the 'Swaythling Cup' contested? A: TABLE TENNIS
Q: Who was the drummer with the 1970's rock band 'Led Zepplin'? A: JOHN BONHAM
Q: Which English dramatistwrote 'Hobson's Choice'? A: HAROLD BRIGHOUSE
Q: What is the Army rank equivalent to Rear Admiral in the Royal Navy? A: MAJOR GENERAL
Q: What rank in the RAF is equivalent to Rear Admiral in the Royal Navy? A: AIR VICE MARSHAL
Q: Which famous battle of 1645 took place when the Parliamentary Army led by Fairfax defeated the Royalist Army led by Prince Rupert? A: NASEBY
Q: With a 'Beaufort Scale' number of 11, and a wind speed of 64 -72 mph.How is this wind force described? A: STORM
Q: Which actress was the elder sister of Joan Fontaine? A: OLIVIA de HAVILLAND
Q: What is the highest pitched woodwind instrument in an orchestra? A: PICOLLO
Q: Who wrote the music for the hymn 'Onward Christian Soldiers'? A: SIR ARTHUR SULLIVAN
Q: What is the lowest pitched string instrument in an orchestra? A: DOUBLE BASS
Q: Who in 1977 shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Miraid Corrigan? A: BETTY WILLIAMS
Q: Which British composer wrote 'On Hearing The First Cuckoo In Spring'? A: FREDERICK DELIUS
Q: Who played the lead male role in the 1939 film-western, 'Dodge City'? A: ERROL FLYNN
Q: Which Greek hero of the 'Trojan War' killed himself when the armour of Achilles was given to Odysseus? A: AJAX
Q: Which British airport has the code LGW? A: LONDON GATWICK
Q: "What may be described as ""a leguminous plant bearing pods that ripen underground, and contain seeds used for food and oil""?" A: PEANUTS
Q: In which year was Benigno Aquino murdered, the USSR shoot down a Boeing 747 off Sakhalin Island, and America land troops in Grenada? A: 1983
Q: The buccaneer Henry Morgan was pardoned and knighted by which king? A: CHARLES II
Q: The 'Brickfielder' is a hotdry wind in which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: Similarly, in which country does the 'Diablo' blow? A: U.S.A
Q: Who was dismissed as manager of Derby County on November 21st. 2007? A: BILLY DAVIES
Q: Alphabetically, which is the last state in Australia? A: WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Q: In which suburb of Los Angeles were there major riots in 1965? A: WATTS
Q: In Italy, what does the word 'piccolo' mean? A: SMALL
Q: Which film of 2004 is about an insurnace man and his family who are forced to abandon their quiet suburban life and revert to their 'superhero' guises in order to save the world? A: 'THE INCREDIBLES'
Q: Who wrote 'Cocaine Nights', 'The Drowned World', and 'High Rise'? A: J.G. BALLARD
Q: What is another namefor Oedema? A: DROPSY
Q: What nationality was the winner of the 2007 Tour de France? A: SPANISH
Q: Who so far, has been the only bachelor President of the U.S.A.? A: JAMES BUCHANAN
Q: Who wrote 'Down And Out In Paris And London', and 'The Lion And The Unicorn'? A: GEORGE ORWELL
Q: What name is given to atoms of any given element which have the same number of protons and electrons, and the same chemical qualities, but differ in the number of neutrons in their nuclei? A: ISOTOPES
Q: What may be described as a 'primula with fragrant yellow flowers, which grow in pastures and meadows'? A: COWSLIP
Q: Which pop group have had UK number one hits with 'Bring It Back', 'Never Had A Dream Come True', 'Don't Stop Movin'', and 'Have You Ever'? A: S CLUB 7
Q: The 'Greek Orders' are the three original classic orders of architecture, namely 'Doric', 'Ionic' and which other? A: CORINTHIAN
Q: Alphabetically, which is the last country in South America? A: VENEZUELA
Q: 'I'm In Love With A Wondeful Guy' comes from which musical? A: 'SOUTH PACIFIC'
Q: What is the symbol of the United States Democratic Party? A: A DONKEY
Q: Who wrote the opera 'Gloriana'? A: BENJAMIN BRITTEN
Q: Which Scottish soccer club plays at Cappielow Park? A: GREENOCK MORTON
Q: Which Scottish queen had the sobriquet 'The Maid of Norway'? A: QUEEN MARGARET
Q: What is the maximum number of people allowed in a Tug-Of-War team? A: EIGHT
Q: The invention of which home recreational item is attributed to John Spilsbury in 1760? A: JIGSAW PUZZLE
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Finnegan's Wake'? A: JAMES JOYCE
Q: Which organ of the body produces hormones controlling the rate of chemical reactions in the body's cells? A: THYROID GLAND
Q: The A23 connects London to which other town or city? A: BRIGHTON
Q: In which American city do the 'Celtics' play professional Basketball? A: BOSTON
Q: Which breed of dog takes its name from a state in Mexico? A: CHIHUAHUA
Q: What type of creature is a 'Karakul'? A: SHEEP
Q: Which rare species of water bird has one of its few breeding sites at Leighton Moss in Lancashire? A: BITTERN
Q: Which element, of pale greenish-yellow colour, has the atomic number 9? A: FLUORINE
Q: In which stretch of water - which became known as 'Bomb Alley' -was the British fleet anchored during the Falklands campaign? A: SAN CARLOS WATER
Q: What type of creature is a 'Takin'? A: GOAT
Q: Three new cities were created in the UK in 2000, Brighton, Wolverhampton, and which other? A: INVERNESS
Q: Which bluish-white metallic element has the atomic number 30? A: ZINC
Q: In which English county is Castle Howard? A: NORTH YORKSHIRE
Q: As what is the 'bulb' of a Crocus more correctly known? A: CORM
Q: The character 'Thomas Sweeney' appeared in which British soap from 1984 to 2000? A: 'BROOKSIDE'
Q: Born near Saragossa, who became court painter to Charles III of Spain in 1786? A: GOYA
Q: The Argentinean invasion of which island in 1982 started the 'Falklands War'? A: SOUTH GEORGIA
Q: How many people are in a Netball team? A: SEVEN
Q: Which UK band had hits with 'You Really Got Me' and 'Sunny Afternoon'? A: THE KINKS
Q: 'Officer Alex J.Murphy' became better known by what name in the title of a 1987 film? A: 'ROBOCOP'
Q: The Iris has a thick-stemmed root instead of a bulb. By what name is this 'root' known? A: RHIZOME
Q: Under what name did actress Vivien Hartley achieve fame? A: VIVIEN LEIGH
Q: Which battle of the Napoleonic Wars is sometimes referred to as the 'Battle of the Three Emperors'? A: AUSTERLITZ
Q: In World War II, the US Marine Corps used members of which native American tribe as code senders? A: NAVAJO
Q: What is the state capital of Washington? A: OLYMPIA
Q: In which US National Park is the geyser known as 'Old Faithful'? A: YELLOWSTONE
Q: In the Bible, who was thrown out of a window and eaten by dogs? A: JEZEBEL
Q: Which US President is on the $50 bill? A: GRANT
Q: What type of insect is a Lampyris noctiluca? A: GLOW WORM
Q: Which English motorway runs from Rotherham to Goole? A: M18
Q: Which English motorway runs from Ross to Tewkesbury? A: M50
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens does 'Seth Pecksniff' appear? A: 'MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT'
Q: Who won the 2010 'Oscar' for Best Actress for the film 'The Blind Side'? A: SANDRA BULLOCK
Q: What name is given to a barrel that has the capacity to hold 54 gallons of beer? A: HOGSHEAD
Q: Philips and which other company developed the CD? A: SONY
Q: Of which British monarch was Alice Keppel the mistress? A: EDWARD VII
Q: From which musical does the song 'I Dreamed A Dream' come? A: 'LES MISERABLES'
Q: Which US state is called the 'Centennial State'? A: COLORADO
Q: Who was sworn in as Vice President of the USA on 20th January 2009? A: JOE BIDEN
Q: The Zodiac sign Pisces belongs to which element? A: WATER
Q: Which company developed the VHS cassette? A: JVC
Q: Who was the sheriff of 'Four Feather Falls'? A: 'TEX TUCKER'
Q: In which European city was Audrey Hepburn born? A: BRUSSELS
Q: In which country would you find the Oland Island Bridge? A: SWEDEN
Q: What is or was the real first name of the newspaper owner Eddie Shah? A: SELIM
Q: Which game uses 64 cards, with no card below 7? A: BEZIQUE
Q: Which artist painted 'The Old Woman Cooking Eggs' and 'The Rokeby Venus'? A: VELASQUEZ
Q: In which country would you find the Angostura Suspension Bridge? A: VENEZUELA
Q: In Norse mythology, of what was 'Aegir' the god? A: THE SEA
Q: Who was 'Dan Dare's' assistant and co-pilot? A: 'DIGBY'
Q: From which musical does the song 'The Impossible Dream' come? A: 'MAN OF LA MANCHA'
Q: Which company produced a motor car called the 'Scimitar'? A: RELIANT
Q: What is the name of 'Bob the Builder's' cement mixer? A: 'DIZZY'
Q: How often is the Oberammergau Passion Play performed? A: EVERY TEN YEARS
Q: Name the company featured in TV's 'Drop The Dead Donkey'? A: 'GLOBELINK NEWS'
Q: Jeff Bridges was nominated for the 'Oscar' for Best Actor this year for his role as 'Rooster Cogburn' in which film? A: 'TRUE GRIT'
Q: Which of the noble gases takes its name from the Greek for 'hidden'? A: KRYPTON
Q: In George Orwell's 'Animal Farm', what is the name of the pig who emerges as the leader of the farm following the overthrow of 'Farmer Jones'? A: 'NAPOLEON'
Q: Jesse Eisenberg was nominated for the 'Oscar' for Best Actor this year for his role as 'Mark Zuckerberg' in which film? A: 'THE SOCIAL NETWORK'
Q: Which of the noble gases takes its name from the Greek for 'stranger'? A: XENON
Q: In George Orwell's 'Animal Farm', what is the name of the loyal but dim-witted cart-horse who carries out many of the orders handed down by 'Napoleon'? A: 'BOXER'
Q: Which American film director of Czech origin twice won the Academy Award for Best Director for his films 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest' and 'Amadeus'? A: MILOS FORMAN
Q: Which German-born French composer left his most famous opera 'Tales of Hoffmann' unfinished at his death in 1880? A: JACQUES OFFENBACH
Q: Which Sri Lankan batsman ended the 2011 Cricket World Cup as the highest run scorer? A: TILLAKARATNE DILSHAN
Q: What name is given to the mass killing of Danes in England that was ordered by King Ethelred the Unready and occurred on 13th November 1002? A: ST. BRICE'S DAY MASSACRE
Q: Which American film director of Greek origin has twice won the Academy Award for Best Director for his films 'Gentleman's Agreement' and 'On The Waterfront'? A: ELIA KAZAN
Q: The novel 'Dead Souls' and the play 'The Government Inspector' are two of the best known works of which Russian author? A: NIKOLAI GOGOL
Q: Which English city shares its name with the state capital of Nebraska? A: LINCOLN
Q: 'Grenade' was a 2011 UK number one hit for which singer? A: BRUNO MARS
Q: Which English town shares its name with the state capital of Delaware? A: DOVER
Q: Who was the President of France at the time of the assassination of John F. Kennedy? A: CHARLES DE GAULLE
Q: The novels 'The Gulag Archipelago' and 'One Day In The Life Of Ivan Denisovich' are two of the best known works of which Russian author? A: ALEXSANDR SOLZHENITSYN
Q: Which god of wisdom in Egyptian mythology is usually portrayed with the head of a Falcon? A: HORUS
Q: After the city of Valencia, which tourist resort on the Costa Blanca is the next largest city in the Spanish autonomous region of Valencia? A: ALICANTE
Q: Named after a German inventor, what is the SI unit of electrical conductance? A: SIEMENS
Q: After Seville, which tourist resort on the Costa Del Sol is the next largest city in the Spanish autonomous region of Andalusia? A: MALAGA
Q: Named after a French physicist, what is the SI unit of electrical charge? A: COULOMB
Q: Which god of embalming in Egyptian mythology is usually portrayed with the head of a Jackal? A: ANUBIS
Q: Which American actor and singer has joined Amanda Holden as one of the judges on the current series of 'Britain's Got Talent'? A: DAVID HASSELHOFF
Q: Who was the King of Persia who led the armies that triumphed over the Greeks at the battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium? A: XERXES
Q: Also found in Spinach and similar plants, which organic acid is the primary acid found in Rhubarb leaves? A: OXALIC ACID
Q: Who was the King of Epirus who defeated the Romans at the Battle of Asculum in 279 BC at the cost of his army being almost entirely destroyed? A: PYRRUS
Q: Which English comedian has joined Amanda Holden as one of the judges on the current series of 'Britain's Got Talent'? A: MICHAEL McINTYRE
Q: Which English king was born in Le Mans in 1133? A: HENRY II
Q: Chad shares the vast majority of its eastern border with which country? A: SUDAN
Q: "Which Caribbean island nation is thought to take its name from the Spanish for ""shallow seas""?" A: BAHAMAS
Q: In the King James Version, which eponymous book of the Old Testament follows 'Isaiah' and precedes 'Lamentations'? A: 'JEREMIAH'
Q: Nigeria shares the vast majority of its eastern border with which country? A: CAMEROON
Q: Which Caribbean island nation is thought to take its name from the Spanish for 'ancient and bearded'? A: ANTIGUA & BARBUDA
Q: Which English king was born in Bordeaux in 1367? A: RICHARD II
Q: Which South African golfer won this month's US Masters tournament with a score of 14 under par? A: CHARL SCHWARTZEL
Q: Dilma Rousseff was elected as the first female President of which South American country, in 2011? A: BRAZIL
Q: Which Rolf Harris song was the last UK number one hit of the 1960's? A: 'TWO LITTLE BOYS'
Q: Named after a French author and statesman, what name is given to a thick steak, cut from a grilled fillet of beef that is regularly served with mushrooms and potatoes? A: CHATEAUBRIAND
Q: Sold for $106.5 million in 2010, 'Nude, Green Leaves and Bust' is which artist's most expensive painting? A: PABLO PICASSO
Q: Sold for $100 million in 2008, 'Eight Elvises' is which artist's most expensive painting? A: ANDY WARHOL
Q: In which US city do the American Football team known as the 'Browns' play their home games? A: CLEVELAND
Q: In which American state are the headquarters of the fast- food chain McDonalds located? A: ILLINOIS
Q: What is the medical name for the allergy of the skin known commonly as nettle rash or hives? A: URTICARIA
Q: Which author's works feature 'Blandings Castle' and 'The Drones Club'? A: P.G. WODEHOUSE
Q: Who was President of France between Valery Giscard d'Estaing and Jacques Chirac? A: FRANCOIS MITTERAND
Q: Formerly the capital, which is the largest city in Tanzania? A: DAR ES SALAAM
Q: 'One O'Clock Jump' was the theme song fro which jazz musician and his orchestra? A: 'COUNT BASIE'
Q: Which band are photographed outside Salford Lads Club on the inside cover of their album 'The Queen Is Dead'? A: THE SMITHS
Q: The name of which former US Treasury Secretary completes this banking corporation 'J P Morgan ......'? A: 'CHASE'
Q: Which actor, most famous for the TV series 'Spooks' was the first to play the 17-year-old 'Alan Strang' in the play 'Equus' in 1973? A: PETER FIRTH
Q: Who plays 'Ian Fletcher' 'Head of Deliverance of the Olympic Deliverance Commission' in the BBC TV comedy 'Twenty Twelve'? A: HUGH BONNEVILLE
Q: Which US Senator who ran for the White House in 2008 was born in the Panama Canal Zone in 1936? A: JOHN McCAIN
Q: Moving to Australia when he was 4, in which country was Russell Crowe born? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Which team won the FA Cup in 1975 - Alan Taylor scoring two goals in the final, as he had in the quarter- final and semi-final replay? A: WEST HAM UNITED
Q: Which river flows through Worcester and Gloucester? A: RIVER SEVERN
Q: How many strings are there on a Viola? A: FOUR
Q: The SI unit of Inductance is named after which American who lived from 1797 to 1878? A: JOSEPH HENRY
Q: In music, which note is equal to two crotchets? A: MINIM
Q: Which sign of the zodiac comes between Leo and Libra? A: VIRGO
Q: "Whose resignation speech to the House of Commons in 1988 included ""It is rather like sending your opening batsman to the crease, only for them to find, as the first balls are being bowled, that their bats have been broken before the game by the team captain""?" A: GEOFFREY HOWE
Q: Which drinks company is the sponsor of the Grand National at Aintree? A: JOHN SMITH'S
Q: Which is the largest country in Africa, by area? A: ALGERIA
Q: Which sign of the zodiac comes between Scorpio and Capricorn? A: SAGITTARIUS
Q: In which year did the 'Easter Rising' in Dublin begin on Easter Monday, April 24th? A: 1916
Q: Following the awarding of city status to St. Asaph earlier this year, there are now six cities in Wales. Which city is first alphabetically? A: BANGOR
Q: Which symbol on a musical score raises the pitch by one semitone? A: SHARP
Q: Which river can be crossed using the Scotswood Bridge or the Shields Ferry? A: RIVER TYNE
Q: French actress Catherine Deneuve was the second wife of which photographer? A: DAVID BAILEY
Q: How many valves are there on a (standard) trumpet? A: THREE
Q: Which actor, one of the stars of the t.v. series 'New Tricks' was the first to play the innkeeper 'Thenardier' in 'Les Miserables' in 1985? A: ALUN ARMSTRONG
Q: Which fish is used in the dish 'gravlax' (or 'gravadlax')? A: SALMON
Q: In which ITV comedy do Steve Pemberton and Siobhan Finneran play 'Mick' and 'Janice Garvey'? A: 'BENIDORM'
Q: John McCain and Barry Goldwater, the defeated candidate in the 1964 US Presidential Election, were both Senators for which state? A: ARIZONA
Q: Which Manchester band formed in 1976 by Mark E Smith and three others was named after the English title of a novel by Albert Camus? A: 'THE FALL'.
Q: For what does the 'w' stand in 'PwC', one of the 'Big Four' accountancy firms in the world? A: WATERHOUSE
Q: The 'Maxilla' is the upper jawbone. What is the name of the lower jawbone? A: MANDIBLE
Q: The most famous piece performed by which jazz quartet is 'Take Five'? A: DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET
Q: 'Marianne Dashwood', 'Fanny Price' and 'Anne Elliot' are characters created by which author? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: In 2010 who was created Baron Bannside of North Antrim, in the County of Antrim? A: IAN PAISLEY
Q: How are Oldham born comedy duo Thomas Derbyshire and Robert Harper known professionally? A: 'CANNON & BALL'
Q: Who was Chancellor of Germany between Helmut Kohl and Angela Merkel? A: GERHARD SCHRODER
Q: Formerly the capital, which is the largest city in Nigeria? A: LAGOS
Q: Which country was host to the terrorist organisation FRELIMO? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: The main asteroid belt is between Jupiter and which other planet? A: MARS
Q: The museum in Crich, Debyshire is dedicated to which form of transport? A: TRAMS
Q: Who wrote the plays ‘The Entertainer’ and ‘Look Back in Anger’? A: JOHN OSBORNE
Q: In which month of 1789 was the Storming of the Bastille? A: JULY
Q: Complete the name of the 13th President of the USA Millard .............. A: FILLMORE
Q: All stations on the National Rail network have a 3-letter code. Which London station has the code LST? A: LIVERPOOL STREET
Q: What is the one-word stage name of 16 year old singer Jasmine van den Bogaerde, who won ‘Open Mic UK’ in 2008 as a 12 year old? A: BIRDY
Q: Who did Andrew Waugh succeed as Surveyor General of India, Waugh naming Peak XV in the Himalayas after him? A: GEORGE EVEREST
Q: For which book did Margaret Mitchell win the 1937 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction? A: GONE WITH THE WIND
Q: Which religious figure lived at Auckland Castle until last year, although his office is still there? A: BISHOP OF DURHAM
Q: What is the original title of the book translated into Spanish as ‘Harry Potter y el Cáliz de Fuego’? A: (HARRY POTTER AND) THE GOBLET OF FIRE
Q: In which language was the Magna Carta originally written? A: LATIN
Q: Travelling along the coast of Africa – which country is next – Somalia, Kenya, ..........? A: TANZANIA
Q: Name the first Formula 1 driver to win his first three titles consecutively? A: SEBASTIAN VETTEL
Q: In which sport did Sarah Storey win four gold medals at the 2012 Paralympics? A: CYCLING
Q: On which game show of the 1980s was Una Stubbs a regular team captain? A: GIVE US A CLUE
Q: What is the one-word nickname of Michael Balzary, the bass player with the Red Hot Chili Peppers? A: FLEA
Q: In which year was the Prince of Wales born? A: 1948
Q: Which of Enid Blyton’s ‘Famous Five’ was a dog? A: TIMMY
Q: For which Bond film, in which she has a cameo role as a fencing instructor, does Madonna sing the theme? A: DIE ANOTHER DAY
Q: Cosima, the younger daughter of Franz Liszt, became the second wife of which composer in 1870? A: RICHARD WAGNER
Q: The flag of which Republic that existed from the 7th century until 1797 contained the Lion head of Saint Mark with an open gospel? A: VENICE
Q: Which mountain rises 10200 metres from its ocean base although it is only 4205 metres above sea level? A: MAUNA KEA (IN HAWAII)
Q: Who plays Edward Cullen in the ‘Twilight’ films? A: ROBERT PATTINSON
Q: How is the record of the great survey of much of England and parts of Wales completed in 1086 usually known? A: DOMESDAY BOOK
Q: Travelling along the coast of South America – which country is next – Chile, Peru, .......? A: ECUADOR
Q: Who won her only Singles title at Wimbledon in 2004 when she beat Serena Williams in the Final? A: MARIA SHARAPOVA
Q: In which month of 1805 was the Battle of Trafalgar? A: OCTOBER
Q: The 81 mile Speyside Way runs from Buckie to which town and resort in the Cairngorms? A: AVIEMORE
Q: Who wrote the plays ‘Jumpers’ and ‘Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead’? A: TOM STOPPARD
Q: The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha are the two Houses of the Parliament of which country? A: INDIA
Q: Which team did Spain beat in the Final of the 2010 FIFA World Cup? A: NETHERLANDS
Q: How was the bird Pinguinus impennis commonly known? A: GREAT AUK
Q: Which dynasty ruled China in the year 1AD? A: HAN
Q: The 1993 film ‘The Pelican Brief’ was based on whose 1992 book? A: JOHN GRISHAM
Q: Espoo and Tampere are the second and third largest cities by population in which European country? A: FINLAND
Q: Which of Picasso’s ‘periods’ came first - from 1901 to 1904? A: BLUE
Q: What name is given to the long pole used to propel a punt? A: Quant
Q: There are four Cardinal Virtues: Prudence, Temperance, Justice and which other? A: Fortitude
Q: Who playe Mr Lucas in the TV sitcom “Are You Being Served”? A: Trevor Bannister
Q: Who created the newspaper strip cartoon “The Perishers”? A: Maurice Dodd
Q: Which county cricket team won seven consecutive county championships in the 1950’s? A: Surrey
Q: The Battle of the Boyne, the Glencoe Massacre and the Salem Witch Trial all occurred in which decade? A: 1690’s
Q: Which constellation contains the bright start Arcturus and is known as “The Herdsman”? A: Bootes
Q: In which horserace did Lester Piggott ride his last English Classic winner? A: 2000 Guineas
Q: Which European city lies on the river Aare? A: Bern
Q: Which actor played the villainous swordsman Archie Cunningham in the 1995 film “Rob Roy”? A: Tim Roth
Q: In World War Two, which aircraft company manufactured the Stuka? A: Junkers
Q: Who was the Greek equivalent of the Roman goddess Victoria? A: Nike
Q: What name is given to the notoriously steep railway gradient south of Birmingham between Barnt Green and Bromsgrove? A: The Lickey (Incline)
Q: What two colours are used on semaphore flags? A: Red and Yellow
Q: During World War Two, Operation Upkeep was the codename given by the Allies to the trials and testing of which weapon? A: Bouncing Bomb
Q: Which Australian tennis player twice partnered Britain’s John Lloyd to win the mixed doubles at Wimbledon/ A: Wendy Turnbull
Q: Capnomancy is an attempt to foretell future events by studying the patterns made by what? A: Smoke
Q: Seymour is the family name of which English duke? A: Duke of Somerset
Q: Besides Sandy Lyle, which other European golfer won a first ever major in 1985? A: Bernard Langer
Q: Containing the bright star Capella, which constellation is known as “The Charioteer”? A: Auriga
Q: Meaning “cluster of eight” in the local language, what did the Ellice Islands change their name to upon gaining independence? A: Tuvalu
Q: Which American instrumental group had top 20 hit singles in the 60’s with “Perfidia” and “Walk Don’t Run”? A: The Ventures
Q: Which type of spaniel takes its name from a stately home in Nottinghamshire? A: Clumber
Q: Which African animal has types called Kordofan, Nubian and Reticulated? A: Giraffe
Q: Who created the newspaper strip cartoon The Gambols? A: Barry Appleby
Q: Which English football league club were once known as Pine Villa? A: Oldham
Q: In which 1986 film did John Cleese play a schoolteacher anxiously trying to get to Norwich? A: Clockwise
Q: In the passing of a government bill, which stage follows the third reading? A: Royal Assent
Q: What name is given to the full moon after a Harvest Moon? A: Hunter’s Moon
Q: Working for the Los Angeles Tribune, who played Lou Grant in the TV series of the same name? A: Ed Asner
Q: What nationality was 16th century astrologer Nostradamus? A: French
Q: What is the main alcoholic ingredient of a Sidecar cocktail? A: Brandy
Q: The Scottish coastal town of Stranraer stands at the head of which loch? A: Loch Ryan
Q: How many players are there on a Shinty team? A: 12
Q: What sort of creature was Lonesome George who died on Pinta Island in the Galapagos in 2012? A: TORTOISE
Q: Who was Chancellor of the Exchequer from March 1974 until May 1979? A: DENIS HEALEY
Q: In the Bible whose sons were Ham, Japheth and Shem? A: NOAH
Q: In which African country are Serengeti and Kilimanjaro National Parks? A: TANZANIA
Q: The original line-up of which girl band included Kerry Katona and Liz McClarnon? A: ATOMIC KITTEN
Q: Who plays Michael Rodwell in Coronation Street? A: LES DENNIS
Q: What seven-letter word can be a gold coin, a forward slash, or the line between the numerator and denominator of a fraction? A: SOLIDUS
Q: How many Brandenburg Concertos did Johann Sebastian Bach compose? A: SIX
Q: By what first name was the actress sister of John and Lionel Barrymore known? A: ETHEL
Q: The Red Wings play in the National Hockey League at the Joe Louis Arena in which city? A: DETROIT
Q: Titania is the largest moon of Uranus by diameter. Which is the second largest? A: OBERON
Q: What is the name of the loyalty card launched by Boots in 1997? A: ADVANTAGE
Q: Which rugby league club has been coached by Ces Mountford, Alex Murphy and Brian Johnson? A: WARRINGTON
Q: Who wrote the collections of poems When We Were Very Young (1924) and Now We Are Six (1927)? A: A A MILNE
Q: Which composer's Piano Concerto was famously conducted by Andre Previn on the 1971 Morecambe and Wise Christmas Show? A: EDVARD GRIEG
Q: In which recent film does Benedict Cumberbatch play Alan Turing? A: THE IMITATION GAME
Q: The aye-aye, a small mammal with a thin extended middle finger used to find food, is a native of which island country? A: MADAGASCAR
Q: .za is the internet code for which country? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Rita O'Grady is the leading character in which film, made into a musical that opened in London last year starring Gemma Arterton? A: MADE IN DAGENHAM
Q: Which recent BBC TV drama set in Pagford opens with the death of a parish councillor? A: THE CASUAL VACANCY
Q: Which US state lies immediately to the south of South Dakota? A: NEBRASKA
Q: By what one-word name is the Lockheed SR-71 aircraft known? A: BLACKBIRD
Q: The king of which country lived in London from 1910 when the monarchy was abolished until his death in 1932? A: A PORTUGAL
Q: Who is the subject of the poem The Widow at Windsor, part of the Barrack-Room Ballads, by Rudyard Kipling published in 1892? A: QUEEN VICTORIA
Q: Which supermarket issues the Match & More card? A: MORRISONS
Q: The Battle of Flodden took place in September 1513 in which English county? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: Which county cricket club has been captained by Percy Fender, Peter May and Micky Stewart? A: SURREY
Q: By what two-word name was the Boeing B-17 aircraft known? A: FLYING FORTRESS
Q: Who was King of Italy from 1900 until 1946 - regnal number not required? A: VICTOR EMMANUEL (III)
Q: Which actor, comedian, writer and musician rowed for Cambridge in the 1980 Boat Race? A: HUGH LAURIE
Q: """An' the dawn comes up like thunder outer China 'crost the Bay!"" is the last line of the chorus of which of Kipling's Barrack-Room Ballads?" A: MANDALAY
Q: Which word that begins 'sol' is a coil of wire that acts as a magnet when an electric current flows through it? A: SOLENOID
Q: What name is given to a resident of Colchester? A: COLCESTRIAN
Q: In which novel did James Hilton describe the 'mystical, harmonious valley' of Shangri-La? A: LOST HORIZON
Q: Three of the Galilean moons of Jupiter are Io, Europa and Callisto. Which is the fourth? A: GANYMEDE
Q: The Allied forces at the 1704 Battle of Blenheim were led by the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene of where? A: SAVOY
Q: """Can't Sing!"" - a musical comedy written by Harry Hill that lasted 6 weeks and 3 days in London last year, was based on which TV reality show?" A: THE X FACTOR
Q: In which BBC TV drama is Doctor Thomas Chamberlain the Head of the Lyell Centre supported by pathologist Nikki Alexander and forensic scientist Jack Hodgson? A: SILENT WITNESS
Q: Wyndham Lewis was a major figure in which short-lived British avant-garde Art movement which had its only exhibition in 1915? A: VORTICISM
Q: Which US state lies immediately to the north of North Carolina? A: VIRGINIA
Q: In the Hall of the Mountain King was composed by Edvard Grieg as part of which play by Henrik Ibsen? A: PEER GYNT
Q: Which newspaper editor was played by Peter Capaldi in the film The Fifth Estate? A: ALAN RUSBRIDGER
Q: Brooks's dyak, Keast's tube-nosed and Sulawesi naked-backed are fruit bats native to which country, an archipelago of thousands of islands? A: INDONESIA
Q: What is the surname of sisters Elinor, Margaret and Marianne in Jane Austen's Sense and Sensibility? A: DASHWOOD
Q: Two twentieth century Prime Ministers were Home Secretary before they were Premier. One was Winston Churchill. Who was the other? A: JAMES CALLAGHAN
Q: In the Bible what relation was Lot to Abraham? A: NEPHEW
Q: Three African countries have a shoreline on Lake Malawi - Tanzania, Malawi and which other? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: Atomic Kitten's second Number One was Eternal Flame, a cover of the 1989 Number One by which band? A: THE BANGLES
Q: Who joined the cast of East Enders last year playing Stan Carter? A: TIMOTHY WEST
Q: In which county is Borstal which gave its name to a youth prison? A: KENT
Q: What is the capital of the former Russian state of Georgia? A: TBILISI
Q: Who was the manager of 'The Sex Pistols'? A: MALCOLM MCLAREN
Q: What is a computer called that controls access to a network, as well as acting as a file storage device? A: SERVER
Q: Castleford Rugby League team are known by the name of which animal? A: TIGERS
Q: Which animal has the scientific name 'dama dama'? A: FALLOW DEER
Q: Which English city has districts called Manningham, Horton and Heaton? A: BRADFORD
Q: Who won the 2001 Turner Prize for his exhibit of empty gallery space with lights turned on and off? A: MARTIN CREED
Q: In the Bible, how long was Jonah in the belly of the whale? A: THREE DAYS
Q: Who was pardoned 12 years after his execution for murders carried out by John Christie? A: TIMOTHY EVANS
Q: Which film director fist applied the word 'Paparazzi' to persistent newsmen? A: FEDERICO FELLINI
Q: "Who was hanged for the murder of a policeman because his cry of ""Let him have it"" was ambiguous?" A: DEREK BENTLEY
Q: "Who won Best Actress 'Oscar' for the 1962 film ""The Miracle Worker""?" A: ANNE BANCROFT
Q: Which Paris landmark has 282 steps, and was planned as a monument to the military success of Napoleon I? A: ARC DE TRIOMPHE
Q: "Which historical event is illustrated by the Victorian painting ""And When Did You Last See Your Father""?" A: THE ENGLISH CIVIL WAR
Q: The 'Nimrod' used by the RAF for search and early warning purposes, was developed from which airliner? A: DE HAVILLAND 'COMET'
Q: "Who co-presents BBC TV's ""Home Front"" with Diarmuid Gavin?" A: LAWRENCE LLEWELLYN- BOWEN
Q: An excess of which acid in the body causes 'gout'? A: URIC ACID
Q: "Whose law states that ""the volume of a gas varies in proportion to its (Kelvin) temperature at a constant pressure?" A: CHARLES' LAW
Q: Which animal has the scientific name 'Sciurus carolinensis'? A: GREY SQUIRREL
Q: Who is the wife of retired footballer Lee Chapman? A: LESLEY ASH
Q: Which English city has districts named Belgrave, Stoneygate and Aylestone? A: LEICESTER
Q: Which car manufacturer produces a model called then 'Forester'? A: SUBARU
Q: The 'Lancaster' bomber of World War II was developed from which other aircraft? A: AVRO MANCHESTER
Q: "The principle that ""the volume of a given quantity of gas varies inversely with the pressure when the temperature is constant"", is whose law?" A: BOYLE'S LAW
Q: "Who won Best Actor 'Oscar' for the 1963 film ""Lilies Of The Field""?" A: SIDNEY POITIER
Q: After whom is the international airport at Venice named? A: MARCO POLO
Q: In which Paris landmark is the tomb of Napoleon I? A: LES INVALIDES
Q: In the Bible, who was asked to interpret the 'writing on the wall'? A: DANIEL
Q: What is the architectural term for a carved screen behind an altar? A: REREDOS
Q: "Who succeeded Anne Robinson as presenter of BBC TV's ""Watchdog""?" A: NICKY CAMPBELL
Q: Who wrote novels featuring 'Inspector Lynley'? A: ELIZABETH GEORGE
Q: What is the food of the Silkworm? A: MULBERRY
Q: What breed of dog was Supreme Champion at Cruft's 2001? A: BASENJI
Q: Who directed the film 'Gladiator'? A: RIDLEY SCOTT
Q: Which actor was Nicole Kidman's co-star in 'Moulin Rouge'? A: EWAN McGREGOR
Q: Which group recorded the song 'It's A Sin', which was number one for three weeks in July 1987? A: PET SHOP BOYS
Q: What was the nationality of the racing driver Mario Andretti, who was World Champion in 1978? A: AMERICAN
Q: Trowbridge, Marlborough and Warminster, are three towns in which English county? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: The 'Taka' is the currency of which Asian country? A: BANGLADESH
Q: In which Australianis Philip Island, a tourist attraction for its Penguins? A: VICTORIA
Q: How is the common shrub Ligustrum more usually known? A: PRIVET
Q: The West Somerset Railway runs from Bishop's Lydeard towhere? A: MINEHEAD
Q: Which popular name isused for Beethoven's symphony No. 6 in F Major? A: PASTORAL
Q: Which German city isserved by 'Schkeuditz Airport'? A: LEIPZIG
Q: Which Seaseparates the islands of Corsica and Sicily from mainland Italy? A: TYRRHENIAN SEA
Q: What was the firstname of the character played by John Thaw in 'The Sweeney'? A: JACK
Q: The 'Nineteenth Amendment' to the US Constitution provided for which change, in August 1920? A: VOTES FOR WOMEN
Q: Whitchurch, Ludlow,Bridgenorth and Market Drayton, are towns in which English county? A: SHROPSHIRE
Q: 'Billy Bigelow' is the name of the tragic hero in which film musical? A: 'CAROUSEL'
Q: The chemical element 'Lutetium' is named after which city? A: PARIS
Q: 'Andean' and 'Californian' are the only two species of which bird? A: CONDOR
Q: In which US state is Princeton University situated? A: NEW JERSEY
Q: What was the nationality of the racing driver Jody Scheckter, who was World Champion in 1979? A: SOUTH AFRICAN
Q: Who in Roman mythology, was the goddess of strife? A: DISCORDIA
Q: Who was the 27th US President, assuming power in 1909? A: WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT
Q: Where on the night of November 12th 1940, was the Italian fleet attacked and badly damaged, whilst atanchor? A: TARANTO
Q: Which chief Persian deity was the god of light and wisdom? A: MITHRAS
Q: Which 'Pet Shop Boys' song went to number one for two weeks in January 1988? A: 'ALWAYS ON MY MIND'
Q: The 'Thirteenth Amendment' to the US Constitution provided forwhich change in March 1865? A: ABOLITION OF SLAVERY
Q: The 'Kip' is the currency of which Far Eastern country? A: LAOS
Q: Who played the title role in the 1945 film 'Mildred Pierce'? A: JOAN CRAWFORD
Q: Whose portrait preceded those of both Charles Darwin and Charles Dickens on the back of a British £10 note? A: FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
Q: The North Yorkshire Moorsrailway runs from Grosmont to where? A: PICKERING
Q: What is the name of the stretch of water that separates Java and Sumatra? A: THE SUNDA STRAIT
Q: How is the common shrub Syringamore usually known? A: LILAC
Q: What was the first name of the character played by George Wendtin 'Cheers'? A: 'NORM'
Q: Which actress played opposite Nicholas Cage in the film 'Captain Corelli's Mandolin'? A: PENELOPE CRUZ
Q: In naval history, who was the captain of the ship, the 'Bonhomme Richard'? A: JOHN PAUL JONES
Q: At which port was the French fleet scuttled in November 1942, to stop it falling into German hands? A: TOULON
Q: 'Olfactophobia' is the morbid fear of what? A: SMELLS
Q: The chemical element 'Gallium' is named after the Latinword 'Gallia', which is what European country? A: FRANCE
Q: In the Beatles cartoon 'The Yellow Submarine', who were the 'baddies'? A: BLUE MEANIES
Q: In which 'New England' state is Harvard University situated? A: MASSACHUSETTS
Q: What is the leather made from shark's skin called? A: SHAGREEN
Q: What was the name of the pirate ship captained by 'Blackbeard'? A: QUEEN ANNE'S REVENGE
Q: Which French film Director was the son of a famous painter? A: JEAN RENOIR
Q: From which French club did Liverpool sign John Arne Riise? A: MONACO
Q: Which German composer's only opera was 'Fidelio'? A: BEETHOVEN
Q: Which musical is based on 'The Taming Of The Shrew'? A: 'KISS ME KATE'
Q: What is the more common name for the minor medical complaint 'Epistaxis'? A: NOSEBLEED
Q: Which English explorer died off the coast of Canada in 1611 after being cast adrift by his mutinous crew? A: HENRY HUDSON
Q: Starring Johnny Depp, which was the highest grossing film worldwide in 2007? A: 'PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN : AT WORLD'S END'
Q: Which British explorer was buried on South Georgia Island in the Atlantic Ocean upon his death in 1922? A: ERNEST SHACKLETON
Q: What is the more common name of the medical condition 'Otalgia'? A: EARACHE
Q: Which South American country became landlocked after 'The War of the Pacific' in 1884? A: BOLIVIA
Q: Found in South East Asia, which is the world's smallest member of the bear family? A: SUN BEAR
Q: Against which Sout American country was Bolivia fighting during 'The War of the Pacific'? A: CHILE
Q: Which tea growing region in India has a name meaning 'Land of the Thunderbolt' in Hindi? A: DARJEELING
Q: Originating in South America, which is the world's smallest breed of horse? A: FALABELLA
Q: Which Australian Prime Minister went missing while swimming in 1967? A: HAROLD HOLT
Q: What is the name of the alcoholic, chain-smoking robot in the television series 'Futurama'? A: 'BENDER'
Q: In July 1989, which former Celtic footballer became the first high-profile Roman Catholic Scotsman to sign for Rangers in 100 years? A: MAURICE 'MO' JOHNSTON
Q: What is the name of the 'Griffin' family's witty, talkingdog in the television series 'Family Guy'? A: 'BRIAN'
Q: In September 1989,which Anglo-Irish footballer became the first non-Basque player to sign for Real Sociedad? A: JOHN ALDRIDGE
Q: Which Australian Prime Minister was dismissed by the Governor-General in 1975? A: GOUGH WHITLAM
Q: Evelyn Waugh's novel 'Black Mischief' was a satirical description of which 20th century Emperor? A: HAILE SELASSIE
Q: In which African country does the majority of the Kalahari Desert lie? A: BOTSWANA
Q: Often seen in school science labs, what name is given to an electrostatic machine which uses a moving belt to accumulate very high voltages on a hollow metal globe? A: VAN DER GRAFF GENERATOR
Q: In which American state is the majority of Yellowstone National Park? A: WYOMING
Q: Commonly used in the textiles industry, which unit of thermal resistance is used to measure the thickness of duvets? A: TOG
Q: Somerset Maugham's novel 'The Moon And Sixpence' is basedon the life of which painter? A: PAUL GAUGIN
Q: With 64 tries, who is Australia's all-time Rugby Union test try scorer? A: DAVID CAMPESE
Q: Which Englishman led the 'Pilgrimage of Grace' in 1536? A: ROBERT ASKE
Q: With 38 tries, who is France's all-time Rugby Union Testtry scorer? A: SERGE BLANCO
Q: On which planet is NASA's 'Phoenix' spacecraft due to land later this month? A: MARS
Q: In Norse mythology, what was the name of the 'rainbow bridge'that connected earth with 'Asgard'? A: 'BIFROST'
Q: Which chemical element takes its name from the Swedish for'heavy stone'? A: TUNGSTEN
Q: In which American state does the McDonald's fast food chain have its headquarters? A: ILLINOIS
Q: Which American criminal was shot and killed by the FBI in 1934 after being betrayed by 'The Lady In Red'? A: JOHN DILLINGER
Q: Which American dancer died in 1927 after her scarf became caught in a car's wheel spokes? A: ISADORA DUNCAN
Q: Which English 'Indie' rock group had a top ten hit in April 2008 with 'Always Where I Need To Be'? A: 'THE KOOKS'
Q: In which American state does Coca-Cola have its headquarters? A: GEORGIA
Q: What is the name of the heritage railway line that runs fornine miles along the border of East and West Sussex? A: BLUEBELL LINE
Q: Which actor and director was elected mayor of the Californian town Carmel-by-the-Sea in 1986? A: CLINT EASTWOOD
Q: Three Brazilians have won the Formula One World Championship : Emerson Fittipaldi, Ayrton Sennaand which other? A: NELSON PIQUET
Q: What is the name of the pre-Roman ancient road that runs from Wallingford in Oxfordshire to Knettishall Heath in Norfolk? A: ICKNIELD WAY
Q: Which television personality was elected the mayor of Cincinnati in 1977? A: JERRY SPRINGER
Q: Who was the 17th century English poet and Member of Parliament, who is best remembered for his poem entitled 'To His Coy Mistress'? A: ANDREW MARVELL
Q: The chemical elements Erbium, Terbium, Ytterbium and Yttrum areall named after a village in which European country? A: SWEDEN
Q: Which Australian batsman scored a then world record 380 runs ina Test Match against Zimbabwe in 2003? A: MATTHEW HAYDEN
Q: 'Just For Laughs' is afamous televised comedy festival held annually in which Canadian city? A: MONTREAL
Q: Which French painter famously designed a garden at his home in Giverny, in which he created many of his most famous paintings? A: CLAUDE MONET
Q: Located beneath 'Roald Dahl Plass', what is the name given to the team's headquarters in 'Torchwood'? A: 'THE HUB'
Q: Against which country did England fight 'The War of Jenkins' Ear'? A: SPAIN
Q: Which Northampton-born actor will replace David Tennant as the eleventh 'Dr. Who', in 2010? A: MATT SMITH
Q: Against which country did Britain fight 'The Cod Wars'? A: ICELAND
Q: What is the name of the yoghurt-based did made with Cucumbers, Garlic, Salt, Olive Oil and Pepper, that is used in Greek cuisine? A: TZATZIKI
Q: Chalcocite is an important ore of which metallic element? A: COPPER
Q: The Giralda Tower and the Alcazar Palace are famous landmarks in which Spanish city? A: SEVILLE
Q: Galena is an important ore of which metallic element? A: LEAD
Q: Based on a true story, which 2008 film starred Angelina Jolie as a woman who is reunited with a missing son, only to realise he is an imposter? A: 'CHANGELING'
Q: Which Frank Kafka novel tells the story of a seventeen- year-old European emigrant named 'Karl Rossmann'? A: 'AMERIKA'
Q: Which Alexsandr Solzhenitsyn novel tells the story of a group of patients in an Uzbekistani hospital? A: 'CANCER WARD'
Q: Elected in 2006, who is the current Prime Minister of Canada? A: STEPHEN HARPER
Q: Which is the sixth book of the 'Old Testament'? A: BOOK OF JOSHUA
Q: What is the name of the squirrel who carries messages up and down 'Yggdrasil', the world tree of Norse mythology? A: 'RATATOSK
Q: Which is the world's smallest bird? A: BEE HUMMINGBIRD
Q: Although they are best known for their only number one hit, 'Mr. Raffles' and 'Here Comes The Sun' were other chart singles for which '70's group? A: STEVE HARLEY & COCKNEY REBEL
Q: What is the name of the dragon who gnaws at the roots of 'Yggrasil', the world tree of Norse mythology? A: 'NIDHOGG'
Q: What is the SI Unit of Electrical Capacitance? A: FARAD
Q: Based on a mythological tale, which 1689 opera by Henry Purcell is considered by many to be the first English-language operatic masterpiece? A: 'DIDO AND AENEAS'
Q: What was the name of the horse ridden by PC George Scorey, who gave his name to the FA Cup's 'White Horse Final' of 1923? A: 'BILLIE'
Q: The 'Mezuzah', which is affixed to the doorframe of Jewish homes, is inscribed with Hebrew verses taken from which book of the 'Torah' ('Old Testament')? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: "According to the opening line of T.S. Eliot's poem 'The Wasteland', which is ""the cruellest month""?" A: APRIL
Q: If there are 100 pennies in a Pound, then there are 100 what in a Russian Rouble? A: KOPEKS
Q: Which Nottinghamshire-born stocking-maker was hanged after leading the 'Pentrich Revolution' of 1817? A: JEREMIAH BRANDRETH
Q: If there are 100 pennies in a Pound, then there are 100 what in an Indian Rupee? A: PAISA
Q: "According to the closing line of T.S. Eliot's poem 'The Hollow Men',"" the world ends not with a bang but with a ..."", what?" A: """WHIMPER"""
Q: Which English archaeologist held the first Chair in Archaeology in the UK and is best known for discovering the 'Merneptah Stele' in 1896? A: FLINDERS PETRIE
Q: Which is the largest moon of Neptune? A: TRITON
Q: Which is the largest moon of Uranus? A: TITANIA
Q: Who was offered, but declined, the Presidency of Israel in 1952? A: ALBERT EINSTEIN
Q: The Catskill Mountains lie mainly in which state? A: NEW YORK
Q: Which Asian country is part of the phonetic alphabet? A: INDIA
Q: In April, the President of Poland was killed in a plane crash near which Russian city? A: SMOLENSK
Q: In which country is the highest point in Africa? A: TANZANIA
Q: 'Down Down' was the first number one hit single for which band? A: 'STATUS QUO'
Q: Who won the 2010 US Masters Golf Tournament? A: PHIL MICKELSON
Q: Which was the only US state formed by seceding from a Confederate state during the American Civil War? A: WEST VIRGINIA
Q: Deuterium and Tritium are isotopes of which chemical element? A: HYDROGEN
Q: 'Dr. Who's' assistant played by Karen Gillan is called 'Amy'. What is her surname? A: 'POND'
Q: Euphorbia pulcherrima is the botanical name for the plant Poinsettia, named after Joel Poinsett. To which country was he the first United States Minister, before they had ambassadors? A: MEXICO
Q: In which country is 'Waitangi Day' celebrated on February 6th each year? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Which British airport has the IATA code, seen on luggage labels, LBA? A: LEEDS BRADFORD
Q: In which Surrey town were 'The Jam' founded in 1972? A: WOKING
Q: Which Farnworth (Bolton) born ex-England footballer played for Blackpool from 1963 to 1966 before moving to a Merseyside club? A: ALAN BALL
Q: Who played 'Ellen Ripley' in the films 'Alien' and 'Aliens'? A: SIGOURNEY WEAVER
Q: In 2009 which Swedish tennis player became the first to beat Rafael Nadal at Roland Garros? A: ROBIN SODERLING
Q: Who directed the 2005 film 'Brokeback Mountain'? A: ANG LEE
Q: Which composer left his Tenth Symphony unfinished on his death in 1911? It has been made into performable form most notably by Deryck Cooke in the 1960's? A: GUSTAV MAHLER
Q: Which future Prime Minister first entered Parliament as MP for Ormskirk in 1945? A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: In which country is 'Romansh' and official language? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: In 2009 which Swiss tennis player played the first match in The Championships at Wimbledon under the closed Centre Court roof, against Andy Murray? A: STANISLAS WAWRINKA
Q: Who directed the 2002 film 'The Pianist'? A: ROMAN POLANSKI
Q: Libya is the only country which has a flag with just one colour. Which colour is used? A: GREEN
Q: Which composer left his Third Symphony unfinished on his death in 1934? Anthony Payne completed the work in 1997? A: EDWARD ELGAR
Q: Later a TV presenter and founder of his own political party, who was MP for Ormskirk from 1974 to 1983? A: ROBERT KILROY-SILK
Q: Which US state, formed partly from Indian Territory, was the first to achieve statehood in the 20th century? A: OKLAHOMA
Q: How many electrons orbit the nucleus in one atom of Helium? A: TWO
Q: In athletics, which is the tenth and final event of the Decathlon? A: 1500 Metres
Q: '9 Dragons' is a 2009 novel featuring LA detective ‘Hieroymous (Harry) Bosch’. Who wrote this novel, his fifteenth about this detective? A: MICHAEL CONNELLY
Q: Which city is the setting for the 'Dr. Who' spin-off series 'Torchwood'? A: CARDIFF
Q: In which country is 'Malvinas Day' celebrated on April 2nd each year? A: ARGENTINA
Q: In 'HMS Pinafore' by Gilbert and Sullivan, the Captain wants his daughter 'Josephine' to marry 'Sir George Porter'. What position does 'Sir George' hold? A: FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY.
Q: Which British airport has the IATA code, seen on luggage labels, LCY? A: LONDON CITY
Q: In which English city were 'Duran Duran' formed in 1978? A: BIRMINGHAM
Q: In the USA who is the General President of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters? A: JAMES P. HOFFA
Q: Which Barrow-in-Furness born ex-England footballer played for Blackpool from 1964 to 1967 before moving to a Merseyside club? A: EMLYN HUGHES
Q: Who played 'Marty McFly' in the 'Back To The Future' films? A: MICHAEL J. FOX
Q: An omelette made with smoked haddock invented at the Savoy Hotel was named after which author? A: ARNOLD BENNETT
Q: In which country is the highest point in South America? A: ARGENTINA
Q: 'Bye Bye Baby' was the first number one hit single for which band? A: 'BAY CITY ROLLERS'
Q: What nationality is Herman Van Rompuy who was appointed as the first full-time President of the European Council in 2009? A: BELGIAN
Q: Which jockey rode the winner of the 2010 Grand National? A: A.P. McCOY
Q: Who is the valet of 'Lord Peter Wimsey' in the novels by Dorothy L. Sayers? A: 'MERVYN BUNTER'
Q: "Which character in children's literature is ""blown by the East Wind"" to '17 Cherry Tree Lane, London'?" A: 'MARY POPPINS'
Q: What type of clothing are 'Air Jordans'? A: SHOES
Q: What is the title of the film sequel to 'Nanny McPhee'? A: 'NANNY McPHEE AND THE BIG BANG'
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Prussia from 1862 to A: OTTO VON BISMARK
Q: Which was the first film made by 'The Beatles'? A: 'A HARD DAY'S NIGHT'
Q: Who was the first woman to receive the Order of Merit? A: FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE
Q: Which model of Ferrari is named after the Italian word for 'redhead'? A: TESTAROSSA
Q: Which city was the capital of Nigeria until 1991? A: LAGOS
Q: What was Malcolm X's surname, before converting to Islam? A: LITTLE
Q: In which English city can you drive on Maid Marian Way? A: NOTTINGHAM
Q: Which Liverpool born comedian, author and actor's 2010 autobiography is entitled 'Stalin Ate My Homework'? A: ALEXEI SAYLE
Q: Moorfields Hospital in London is the oldest and largest hospital in the world caring for which part of the body? A: EYE
Q: Which club won a 1960's FA Cup Final with defenders Dowd, Book, Pardoe, Doyle, Booth and Oakes? A: MANCHESTER CITY
Q: Musically, how are twin brothers Craig and Charlie Reid known? A: 'THE PROCLAIMERS',
Q: Which 1980's BBC drama was set on a North Sea ferry? A: 'TRIANGLE'
Q: Who wrote the novel 'The Call Of The Wild'? A: JACK LONDON
Q: How many MP's are there in the House of Commons? A: 650
Q: Which English county has districts called Bromsgrove, Wyre Forest and Malvern Hills? A: WORCESTERSHIRE
Q: Who did Queen Victoria succeed on the throne? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: To whom was Mike Todd married when he was killed in a plane crash in 1958? A: ELIZABETH TAYLOR
Q: In which month is the Henley Royal Regatta held? A: JULY
Q: Which instrument is played by classical musician John Lill? A: PIANO
Q: Which company is the tyre supplier for all teams in Formula One in 2011? A: PIRELLI
Q: Which singer's 2011 album is called '21'? A: 'ADELE'
Q: In Physics, momentum is the product of mass and which other quantity? A: VELOCITY
Q: In Yorkshire what are the 'Huddersfield Broad' and the 'Huddersfield Narrow'? A: CANALS
Q: What was the name of the actor brother of Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave who died last year? A: CORIN
Q: Actor James McArthur who died in October last year was most famous for playing 'Danny Williams' in which police series? A: 'HAWAII FIVE-O'
Q: In Physics, using Newton's Second Law of Motion, force is the product of mass and which other quantity? A: ACCELERATION
Q: Which 32 mile canal runs from the Bridgewater canal in Manchester to join the Aire and Calder Navigation Canal at Sowerby Bridge in Yorkshire, passing through the town that gives the canal its name? A: ROCHDALE CANAL
Q: Clarissa, Countess of Avon, aged 90 is the widow of which Prime Minister? A: ANTHONY EDEN
Q: What was the name of the daughter of Vanessa Redgrave who died in 2009? A: NATASHA (Richardson)
Q: In which English town can you drive on Barbara Castle Way? A: BLACKBURN
Q: Who was the Pope throughout World War II? A: PIUS XII
Q: Musically, how are brothers Ron and Russell Mael known? A: 'SPARKS'
Q: Which 1950's/60's ITV series was set in the fictional 'Oxbridge General Hospital'? A: 'EMERGENCY - WARD 10'
Q: Founded in 1879, what is the official news publication of the Salvation Army? A: 'WAR CRY'
Q: "Which fictional work features the 'Seven Commandments', which are summarised by the statement ""four legs good, two legs bad""?" A: 'ANIMAL FARM'
Q: The principal Deputy Speaker of the House of Commons has the official title Chairman of Ways and Means. Who is the current holder of the post, the MP for Chorley? A: LINDSAY HOYLE
Q: Which English county has districts called Blaby, Charnwood and Melton? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: In the 1978 film 'International Velvet', who plays the character 'Velvet Brown'? A: NANETTE NEWMAN
Q: Valencia was the venue for the 2007 and 2010 America's Cup, as the defending yacht was from which landlocked country? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Nigel Ogden presents a BBC Radio Two programme featuring music played on which instrument? A: ORGAN
Q: Give either of the first names of Blackpool footballer DJ Campbell? A: DUDLEY JUNIOR
Q: Which Lerner and Lowe musical is based on the TH White novel 'The Once And Future King'? A: 'CAMELOT'
Q: In the comic strip 'Calvin and Hobbs', what sort of animal is 'Hobbs'? A: TIGER
Q: On which river, a tributary of the Avon, does the town of Leamington Spa stand? A: LEAM
Q: Which Pope made Henry VIII 'Defender of the Faith' in 1521? A: LEO X
Q: In which town was the first 'Ikea' store in the UK opened A: WARRINGTON
Q: Sent as a gift to King James II of Scotland in 1457, what is the alliterative name of the medieval bombard siege gun located outside of Edinburgh Castle? A: 'MONS MEG'
Q: Traditionally, athletes from which country lead the parade at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games? A: GREECE
Q: Nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture, which 2011 drama film, directed by Martin Scorsese, tells the story of a boy who lives alone in a Paris railway station? A: 'HUGO'
Q: The 'Royal Society for Mentally Handicapped Children and Adults' is a British charity better known by what acronym? A: 'MENCAP'
Q: "Which English author famously helped to create the ""Go to work on an egg"" advertising slogan used by the United Kingdom's Egg Marketing Board during the 1950's?" A: FAY WELDON
Q: Eric Coates' light orchestral serenade 'By The Sleepy Lagoon' is the appropriately titled introductory music to which long running radio show? A: 'DESERT ISLAND DISCS'
Q: Capturing light energy to conserve free energy in the form of ATP, which organelles found in plant cells conduct photosynthesis? A: CHLOROPLASTS
Q: The final plate of William Hogarth's 'A Rake's Progress' series depicts a scene inside which institution, founded in London in 1247? A: BETHLEHEM HOSPITAL
Q: According to Greek mythology, who was the mother of the twins Apollo and Artemis? A: LETO
Q: Consisting of several RNA and protein molecules arranged into two subunits, which component of cells coordinate synthesis by reading the messenger RNA copy of the DNA and assembling the appropriate amino A: RIBOSOMES
Q: Which female East Anglian mystic wrote 'Sixteen Revelations of Divine Love', a 14th century work documenting a series of intense visions of Jesus Christ experienced during a severe illness? A: JULIAN OF NORWICH
Q: Which English football club, who currently play in the Northern Premier League Division One South, are the world's oldest football club, having been founded in 1857? A: SHEFFIELD F.C
Q: What is the name given to the botanical gardens near Mevagissey in Cornwall that were created by members of the Cornish Tremayne family, over a period from the mid-18th century up to the beginning of the 20th century? A: LOST GARDENS OF HELIGAN
Q: Which restoration dramatist was also responsible for designing Blenheim Palace and Castle Howard? A: JOHN VANBRUGH
Q: Which American Football player, who played for the 'Chicago Bears' between 1985 and 1993, was nicknamed 'The Refrigerator'? A: WILLIAM PERRY
Q: What was the popular name of the prison, close in 2000, that was situated in the former Royal Air Force station of Long Kesh, on the outskirts of Lisburn? A: THE MAZE
Q: Which chemical element is named after the Scottish village in which it was discovered in 1787? A: STRONTIUM
Q: Ted Hughes was appointed Poet Laureate in 1984 on the refusal of which prominent poet? A: PHILIP LARKIN
Q: In the human body, what do the lachrymal glands produce? A: TEARS
Q: Which American statesman and scientist almost killed himself whilst demonstrating the electrical nature of lightening by flying a kite in a thunderstorm? A: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Q: In which country would you find the ruins of the ancient Inca city known as Machu Picchu? A: PERU
Q: In 1844, Samuel Morse used which four-word Biblical quote when he sent the world's first public telegraph message? A: """WHAT HATH GOD WROUGHT"""
Q: First climbed by Chris Bonnington in 1966, what is the name of the 449ft. high sea stack off the coast of the Orkney Islands? A: OLD MAN OF HOY
Q: Prior to gaining enormous success in his own right, which comedian played 'George Dawes', the scorekeeping baby, in the t.v. comedy series 'Shooting Stars'? A: MATT LUCAS
Q: She is the mother of Morgan le Fay by her first husband Gorlois and mother of King Arthur by her second husband Uther Pendragon. What is her name? A: IGRAINE
Q: Which American Vice-President killed his political rival, Alexander Hamilton. in a duel in 1804? A: AARON BURR
Q: Today a senior Police rank in both Italy and Romania, what name was given to the public official in the Roman Republic's Cursus honorum system, who supervised financial affairs? A: QUAESTOR
Q: Who was the King of Bulgaria who, during World War II, declared a symbolic war against the UK and the USA but, much to Hitler's annoyance, refused to declare war against the Soviet Union? A: BORIS III
Q: A distant relative of F. Scott Fitzgerald, who was the American boarding house owner who became the first woman executed by the United States federal government after her conviction for taking part in the conspiracy to assassinate Abraham Lincoln? A: MARY SURRAT
Q: Which American singer, songwriter and actress was born Katheryn Elizabeth Hudson in Santa Barbara, California in 1984? A: KATY PERRY
Q: What was the name of the Royal Navy submarine responsible for the sinking of the General Belgrano during the Falklands War? A: H.M.S. CONQUEROR
Q: Which castle is the official residence of the Duke of Northumberland? A: ALNWICK CASTLE
Q: What is the name, after its chairman, of the ongoing public enquiry into the culture, practices and ethics of the British press following the News International phone hacking scandal? A: LEVESON ENQUIRY
Q: In which city did Adolf Hitler and Erich Ludendorff launch the unsuccessful 'Beer Hall Putsch' in 1923? A: MUNICH
Q: The periodontal ligaments are the supporting tissue for which parts of the human body? A: TEETH
Q: Which famous Roman was assassinated in 48 BC by two men named Achillas and Septimus who were acting upon the orders of King Ptolemy XIII's chief eunuch Pothinus? A: POMPEY
Q: From the 14th to the 19th centuries, the 'Janissaries' were the infantry units that formed the household troops and bodyguards of the Sultans of which Empire? A: OTTOMAN EMPIRE
Q: The third largest town in the Scottish Highlands, which burgh on the Isle of Lewis is also home to one third of the population of the Western Isles? A: STORNOWAY
Q: Which actor and comedian played 'Phileas Fogg' in the 2004 film 'Around The World In Eighty Days'? A: STEVE COOGAN
Q: In terms of population, Oslo is the largest city in Norway. Which is the second largest? A: BERGEN
Q: Which Scottish chemist and physicist invented the vacuum flask? A: JAMES DEWAR
Q: Which poet wrote “A little learning is a dangerous thing”? A: Alexander Pope
Q: Which 1997 film starred Stephen Fry, Jude Law, Vanessa Redgrave and Jennifer Ehle? A: Wilde
Q: Which song was a top 40 hit for both Nina Simone in 1974 and Muse in 2001? A: Feeling Good
Q: In which English county are the Quantock Hills? A: Somerset
Q: Which chemical element is named after the Greek word for the sun? A: Helium
Q: In which country did the Battle of Majuba Hill take place in 1881? A: South Africa
Q: To highlight global warming, which country held a cabinet meeting underwater in 2009? A: The Maldives
Q: The heist in the 2003 remake of “The Italian Job” takes place in which US City? A: Los Angeles
Q: Fallopia japonica is a pernicious weed spreading through roots and tubers found in various wild places, particularly damp ones, in the UK. What is its more common name? A: Japanese Knotweed
Q: Heraclium mantegazzianum is a weed thought to be the largest in western Europe. What is its common name? A: Giant Hogweed
Q: Who wrote the song “Where have all the flowers gone”? A: Pete Seeger
Q: Which novel by Peter Carey won the Booker Prize in 1988? A: Oscar and Lucinda
Q: Which actor was born Issur Danielovich? A: Kirk Douglas
Q: Which London underground station was gutted by fire in 1987? A: Kings Cross
Q: By what name is the actor born John Carter better known? A: Charlton Heston
Q: In which hills are the Cheddar Caves? A: Mendips
Q: What is Nyctophobia the fear of? A: Darkness
Q: Which Middle Eastern city is served by Queen Alia airport? A: Amman (Jordan)
Q: Which book by Phillip Pullman was awarded the 2001 Whitbread Prize for Literature? A: The Amber Spyglass
Q: In the TV series Red Dwarf, one character was called Arnold J Rimmer. For what did the “J” stand? A: Judas
Q: In which country did the Battle of Vinegar Hill take place in 1798? A: Ireland
Q: Which US state is known as the “Tar-heel” state? A: North Carolina
Q: Which group of the 1970’s featured Tony Iommi on guitar, “Geezer” Butler on bass and Bill Ward on drums? A: Black Sabbath
Q: Which group of the 1970-80’s featured Mick Jones on guitar, Paul Simonon on bass and Nicky “Topper” Headon on drums? A: The Clash
Q: Which 1998 film, starring Lynn Redgrave, Ian McKellan and Brendan Fraser centred on the life of film director James Whale? A: Gods and Monsters
Q: In which Australian state is the town of Wagga Wagga? A: New South Wales
Q: In which classic book and film does the character Miss Trunchbull appear? A: Matilda
Q: Who, in 1884, invented the flexible film roll for cameras? A: George Eastman
Q: Which poet wrote “It is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all”? A: Alfred Lord Tennyson
Q: Which Irish poet’s epitaph ends “Cast a cold eye, on life, on death. Horseman pass by”? A: William Butler Yeats
Q: In the 1974 TV comedy “It Ain’t Half Hot Mum”, who played the part of Gunner Beaumont? A: Melvyn Hayes
Q: Who wrote “The Pied Piper of Hamelin”? A: Robert Browning
Q: Which famous actress provided the voice of Maggie in “The Simpsons” when she uttered her first word? A: Liz Taylor
Q: Which is the largest of the Italian lakes? A: Lake Garda
Q: By what nicknames was Edward, eldest son of Edward III known? A: The Black Prince
Q: Which South American country has borders with Bolivia, Brazil and Argentina? A: PARAGUAY
Q: How wide, in feet, is a table tennis table? A: FIVE
Q: What was the name of the character played by Ade Edmondson in the 1990s sitcom ‘Bottom’? A: EDWARD ELIZABETH HITLER
Q: Who created the artwork Everyone I Have Ever Slept With 1963–1995 which was destroyed in the 2004 Momart London warehouse fire? A: TRACEY EMIN
Q: Complete the title of one of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales – ‘The _________ of Bath’s Tale’. A: WIFE
Q: Whose Liverpool Oratorio released in 1991 was composed in collaboration with Carl Davis? A: PAUL MCCARTNEY
Q: The Battle of Rain, or Lech, on April 15th 1632 in which the Swedes under Gustavus Adolphus beat the forces of the Holy Roman Empire was part of which war? A: THIRTY YEARS’ WAR
Q: Prudhoe Bay Oil Field, the largest in North America, is in which US state? A: ALASKA
Q: The Reading Festival held over the August Bank Holiday weekend shares its line-up with which other Festival? A: LEEDS
Q: Who wrote the plays The Sunshine Boys and The Odd Couple? A: NEIL SIMON
Q: The name of which musical instrument is a French word for ‘paperclip’? A: TROMBONE
Q: In which 1944 film does Felix Aylmer play the Archbishop of Canterbury, Max Adrian play the Dauphin and John Laurie play Jamy, a Scottish Captain in the English Army? A: HENRY V
Q: The smallest ground in the Football League Championship Huish Park is home to which club? A: YEOVIL TOWN
Q: What is 2014 in Roman numerals? A: MMXIV
Q: What was the first name of the fifth daughter and youngest child of Queen Victoria, in 1944 the last of her children to die? A: BEATRICE
Q: Which canal passes through the centre of Lymm in Cheshire? A: BRIDGEWATER
Q: Who is the wife of cartoon character Hagar the Horrible? A: HELGA
Q: Which duo had a Number Two hit in 1984 with Agadoo? A: BLACK LACE
Q: Which city in the German state of Saxony has the largest population? A: DRESDEN
Q: Which planet in the Solar System has diameter nearest to that of Earth? A: VENUS
Q: Who was appointed the first Minister of Technology in 1964 – he was General Secretary of the TGWU at the time? A: FRANK COUSINS
Q: What is the capital city of the Italian region of Liguria? A: GENOA
Q: Which gas makes up about 96% of the atmosphere of the planet Mars? A: CARBON DIOXIDE
Q: Who was found dead in the first episode of ‘East Enders’? A: REG COX
Q: What is the English name of Tintin’s dog? A: SNOWY
Q: Complete the title of the 1976 Number One by Paper Lace - Billy, don’t be a _______ . A: HERO
Q: The Guardian Fiction Prize was replaced in 1999 by the Guardian First Book award. Whose novel White Teeth was the second winner? A: ZADIE SMITH
Q: Ray McAnally won a posthumous BAFTA in 1990 for his role as Paddy Brown in which film, his last, released the previous year? A: MY LEFT FOOT
Q: What is the hyphenated name of the lemur, Daubentonia madagascariensis, the world’s largest nocturnal primate? A: AYE-AYE
Q: Who died in the Petersen House at 516 10th Street NW in Washington DC on April 15th 1865? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: The Russian port of Murmansk lies on Kola Bay, an inlet of which sea? A: BARENTS SEA
Q: Victoria Eugenie the daughter of Princess Beatrice married the King of which European country in 1906? A: SPAIN
Q: What is the two-letter postcode for addresses in Birkenhead and Wallasey? A: CH
Q: ‘Seventy-Six Trombones’ is a song from which Meredith Wilson musical? A: THE MUSIC MAN
Q: Who plays Yorick in the 1996 film version of ‘Hamlet’, played in flashback? A: KEN DODD
Q: In Greek myth who was the father of Hector? A: PRIAM
Q: In ‘Absolutely Fabulous’ what is the surname of the character with given names Eurydice Colette Clytemnestra Dido Bathsheba Rabelais Patricia Cocteau, known as Patsy? A: STONE
Q: Which of The Canterbury Tales, the first, features cousins Arcite and Palamon and their pursuit of Emily? A: THE KNIGHT’S TALE
Q: Where was the ship SS Great Britain from 1886 until 1970, when it was returned to Bristol? A: FALKLAND ISLANDS
Q: Which African country has land borders with Sudan, Ethiopia and Djibouti? A: ERITREA
Q: 2 Willow Road is part of a terrace of three houses in Hampstead London designed by which architect with the same surname as a Bond villain – Ian Fleming was one of those who objected to the demolition of the previous properties on the site? A: ERNŐ GOLDFINGER
Q: Westminster Abbey is dedicated to which Saint? A: PETER
Q: The International New York Times was known by what title until last October? A: INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE
Q: In American politics, what is the symbol of the Republican Party? A: ELEPHANT
Q: In which Australian state is one of the southern hemisphere's most remarkable sites, Ayers Rock? A: NORTHERN TERRITORY
Q: In British horse racing, what is the minimum distance over which a 'flat race' is run? A: FIVE FURLONGS
Q: What is the symbol of the democratic Party in American politics? A: DONKEY
Q: "Now only used in the Isle of Man, a ""deemster"" is an old name for what?" A: A JUDGE
Q: Britain's highest waterfall, Cauldron Snout, lies on a river that rises in the north Pennines. Which river? A: TEES
Q: In which year did France withdraw from NATO, and Indira Ghandi become Prime Minister of India? A: 1966
Q: Which year saw Castro create the communist state of Cuba, and Makarios elected President of the newly independent Cyprus? A: 1959
Q: Which runner took the 100 metres gold at the Atlanta Olympics, only a year after she overcame Grave's Disease A: GAIL DEVERS
Q: After failing to win his sixth Tour de France, who made up for his disappointment by winning the inaugural Olympic road time trial in 1996? A: MIGUEL INDURAIN
Q: Who wrote 'Earthly Powers', a long and ambitious first- person novel, narrated by an octogenarian homosexual? A: ANTHONY BURGESS
Q: After whom is the international airport at Pisa in Italy, named? A: GALILEO
Q: Who played the leading roles in both 'Rebel Without A Cause' and 'West Side Story'? A: NATALIE WOOD
Q: Which greenish-yellow gas was discovered by Humphry Davy in 1810? A: CHLORINE
Q: 'The Sea, The Sea' a 1978 novel about a theatre director and his childhood love, was by which authoress A: IRIS MURDOCH
Q: Which colourless and odourless gas was discovered by Daniel Rutherford in 1772? A: NITROGEN
Q: Whose only UK chart-topping single was called 'Don't You Want Me'? A: HUMAN LEAGUE
Q: In football's European Championships, which was the first country to appear in two successive finals? A: USSR
Q: 'School's Out' was the only UK number one single for whom? A: ALICE COOPER
Q: Which of Dicken's' novels features 'Sir John and Edward Chester'? A: 'BARNABY RUDGE'
Q: What large, South American rodent is sometimes known as the 'water hog'? A: CAPYBARA
Q: Which huge seabird of the 'Tropics' is also known as the 'man-o-war bird'? A: FRIGATE BIRD
Q: What nationality is reigning Olympic decathlon champion, Erki Nool? A: ESTONIAN
Q: The reigning Olympic 5000 metres champion is Mamo Wolde. What nationality is he? A: ETHIOPIAN
Q: "Which is the most northerly of America's ""Great Lakes""?" A: SUPERIOR
Q: "Which of America's ""Great Lakes"" has the smallest surface area?" A: ONTARIO
Q: What is the main ingredient of Duxelles sauce or Duxelles stuffing? A: MUSHROOMS
Q: William, Duke of Gloucester, was the only one of which monarch's twelve children to survive infancy? A: QUEEN ANNE
Q: 'Masala Chai' is an Indian tea flavoured with which sweet spice? A: CINNAMON
Q: Which daughter of Laban and first wife of Jacob, bore him twelve sons? A: LEAH
Q: Which sister of Lazarus and Mary gave Jesus hospitality at her home in Bethany? A: MARTHA
Q: "In 1542, whose last words were supposedly, ""I die a queen, but I would rather die the wife of Culpepper""?" A: CATHERINE HOWARD
Q: If the currency is the Peso, copper the major export and Valparaiso the major port, what is the country? A: CHILE
Q: Which area of the human tongue is sensitive to sweet taste? A: THE TIP
Q: In the film 'Die Hard', the last view of which actor, was of him falling from a tower block with a gun in his hand? A: ALAN RICKMAN
Q: How many lumber vertebrae are there in the human spine? A: 5
Q: The human spine includes how many cervical vertebrae? A: 7
Q: Which world leader was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1990? A: MIKHAEL GORBACHEV
Q: Much in the news during the 'Falklands Crisis', on which island is Wideawake Airfield? A: SOUTH GEORGIA
Q: "What is meant by the suffix ""-algia"", as in neuralgia?" A: PAIN
Q: Which branch of the arts was Barbara Hepworth famous for? A: SCULPTURE
Q: Which is the ninth sign of the Zodiac? A: SAGITTARIUS
Q: 'Chantrelle' and 'Porcini' are both well-known varieties of which foodstuff? A: MUSHROOM
Q: Who played 'Olive Oyl' in the 1980 film 'Popeye'? A: SHELLEY DUVALL
Q: What two letters make up the Internet Country Code for Denmark? A: dk
Q: Which Africancapital city is served by 'Bole Airport'? A: ADDIS ABABA (Ethiopia)
Q: Which European country's national flag is a horizontal tricolour: Blue, Black and White? A: ESTONIA
Q: In 'Monopoly', what is situated between 'Old Kent Road'and 'Whitechapel Road'? A: COMMUNITY CHEST
Q: Scarborough is the capital of which West Indian island? A: TOBAGO
Q: Which was the only 'Live 8' venue that was in the southern hemisphere? A: JOHANNESBURG
Q: 'Meniere's Disease' affects which part of the human body? A: THE EAR
Q: What was the christian name of the classical composer Rachmaninov? A: SERGEI
Q: Name the country is Asia which is double landlocked (surrounded by landlocked countries)? A: UZBEKISTAN
Q: Who wrote the bestseller 'The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night-time'? A: MARK HADDON
Q: In which musical does the song 'Bless Your Beautiful Hide', appear? A: 'SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS'
Q: Which fire-breathing monster in Greek mythology was killed by Bellerophon? A: THE CHIMERA
Q: How was musician Ferdinand Joseph Lamothe better known? A: 'JELLY ROLL' MORTON
Q: The Great Yorkshire Show has been held where since 1952? A: HARROGATE
Q: In France, which food is 'Marrons Glaces'? A: CHESTNUTS
Q: Which American singer-songwriter's only British hit was in 1965 with the song'Eve Of Destruction'? A: BARRY McGUIRE
Q: Who was the first cricketer to play 100 ''Test Matches' for England? A: COLIN COWDREY
Q: In which county is Bisley, home of the National Shooting Centre? A: SURREY
Q: In 'Doctor Who', who came from the planet 'Mondas'? A: CYBERMEN
Q: In which English county is the resort of Skegness? A: LINCOLNSHIRE
Q: The US University of Yale is in which state? A: CONNECTICUT
Q: Who was the first man to be general Secretary and President of the USSR? A: LEONID BREZHNEV
Q: Who wrote the best seller 'The Lovely Bones'? A: ALICE SEBOLD
Q: What is the French for Wednesday? A: MERCREDI
Q: How is novelist Patricia Plangman better known? A: PATRICIA HIGHSMITH
Q: What is the correct way of addressing a Duke? A: """YOUR GRACE"""
Q: Which African capital city is served by 'Kotoka Airport'? A: ACCRA , Ghana
Q: Name the country in Europe which is double landlocked (surrounded by landlocked countries)? A: LIECHTENSTEIN
Q: Which European country's national flag is a horizontal tricolour: Red, White and Green? A: HUNGARY
Q: Which mythical creature had the head of an Eagle and the bodyand legs of a Lion? A: GRIFFIN
Q: Which metal is sculptress Elizabeth Frink famous for using? A: BRONZE
Q: Which car model is made by Citroen to rival the Renault Megane Scenic (ie. a small 'people carrier'). A: PICASSO
Q: What is the German for Thursday? A: DONNERSTAG
Q: In the Bible, how many 'Tribes of Israel' are there? A: TWELVE
Q: In which English county is the resort of Minehead? A: SOMERSET
Q: Which group had 1967 hits with 'Night Of Fear' and 'I Can HearThe Grass Grow'? A: THE MOVE
Q: Who starred as ageing actress 'Margo Channing' in the 1950 film 'All About Eve'? A: BETTE DAVIS
Q: Who was the first and lastExecutive President of the USSR? A: MIKHAIL GORBACHEV
Q: In which musical does thesong 'Don't Rain On My Parade' appear? A: 'FUNNY GIRL'
Q: For which edible fungus is Perigord, France famous? A: TRUFFLES
Q: In 'Scrabble', how many 'D' tiles are there? A: FOUR
Q: Moscow is how many hours ahead of GMT? A: THREE
Q: Who played Queen Elizabeth II in the film 'Naked Gun'? A: JEANETTE CHARLES
Q: What is the MKSA or SI unit of electric charge? A: COULOMB
Q: Who followed Kruschev as Soviet Prime Minister in 1964? A: KOSYGIN
Q: In which Irish city doesthe 'Salmon Weir Bridge' span the River Corrib? A: GALWAY
Q: What nationality was the explorer and navigator Vitus Bering? A: DANISH
Q: Near which English city is the Lightwater Valley theme park to be found? A: RIPON
Q: Who was the Leader of the Labour Party from 1931 to 1935, when he resigned because of his pacifist views? A: GEORGE LANSBURY
Q: Which European country was ruled by the House of Vasa from 1523 - 1818? A: SWEDEN
Q: In Hindu mythology, who is the goddess of destruction, and the wife of Siva? A: KALI
Q: Which town as the birthplace of Charles Darwin and Thomas Bowdler? A: SHREWSBURY
Q: The novelist Emile Zola,was the boyhood cpmpanion of which famous French artist in their home town of Aix en Provence? A: PAUL CEZANNE
Q: Who played the part of Queen Elizabeth II in the film 'A Question Of Attribution'? A: PRUNELLA SCALES
Q: Pompey the Great and Crassus were two of the 'First Triumvirate' in 60 BC. Who was the third third? A: JULIUS CAESAR
Q: Which is the longest nerve in the human body? A: SCIATIC
Q: Which Belgian in 1969, was the first man to win all three major prizesin the Tour de France? A: EDDY MERCKX
Q: What is the SI unit of electrical capacity? A: FARAD
Q: Near which English town is the 'Legoland theme park' to be found? A: WINDSOR
Q: Who did Kruschev replace to become Soviet Prime Minister in 1958? A: BULGANIN
Q: What nationality was the Arctic explorer Willem Barents? A: DUTCH
Q: Which famous malt whisky distilled on Speyside by Seagrams, has the name George Smith & Sons on its labels? A: GLENLIVET
Q: Which range of mountains run down the western side of Southern India? A: WESTERN GHATS
Q: Which is the largest internal organ in the human body? A: LIVER
Q: Collectively, for which publication did Terry Venables, Graham Taylor, and Brian Robson appear in a TV advert? A: YELLOW PAGES
Q: Which French king was known as 'The King Consort of Scotland'because of his marriage to Mary Queen of Scots? A: FRANCIS II
Q: Octavian who became Augustus, and Lepidus were two of the 'Second Triumvirate' in 43BC. Who was the third? A: MARK ANTONY
Q: Who composed the oratorio entitled, 'The Dream of Gerontius'? A: EDWARD ELGAR
Q: Whose most famous poem is 'The Tay Bridge Disaster' of 1879? A: WILLIAM McGONAGALL
Q: Where in the human body is the Ethmoid bone? A: SKULL
Q: 'The Pied Piper of Hamlin' got rid of the rats by leading them into which river? A: WESER
Q: Sold in 2004 for $104.2 million, the most expensive painting ever sold by Sotherby's was Garcon a la Pipe. Who painted it? A: PABLO PICASSO
Q: Sold in 2006 for $87.9 million, the most expensive painting ever sold by Christie's was Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II. Who painted it? A: GUSTAV KLIMT
Q: The treacherous architect 'Seth Pecksniff' appears in which Dickens novel? A: 'MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT'
Q: In which Italian city does the 'Serie A' football team Chievo play its home games? A: VERONA
Q: Which e-commerce website was founded by Jeffrey Bezos in 1994? A: AMAZON
Q: The notorious headmaster 'Thomas Gradgrind' appears in which Dickens novel? A: 'HARD TIMES'
Q: In which Italian city does the Serie A football team Atalanta play its home games? A: BERGAMO
Q: The 'Adi Granth Sahib' is a sacred text of which religion? A: SIKHISM
Q: Who is the current monarch of Belgium? A: KING ALBERT II
Q: Who is the current monarch of Norway? A: KING HARALD V
Q: The 'Rid Vega' and 'Sama Veda' are sacred texts of which religion? A: HINDUISM
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the supermarket chain 'Netto'? A: DENMARK
Q: In Egyptian mythology, 'Sobek' was the personification of which animal? A: CROCODILE
Q: 'The Fear' was a 2009 number one hit for which singer? A: LILY ALLEN
Q: In Egyptian mythology, 'Hathor’ was the personification of which animal? A: COW
Q: 'My Life Would Suck Without You' was a 2009 number one hit for which singer? A: KELLY CLARKSON
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the supermarket chain 'Aldi'? A: GERMANY
Q: The 'Hautboy' is an old name for which woodwind instrument? A: OBOE
Q: Which British physicist discovered the electron in 1897? A: J.J.THOMSON
Q: The 'Sackbut' was a forerunner of which modern brass instrument? A: TROMBONE
Q: Which British physicist discovered the neutron in 1932? A: JAMES CHADWICK
Q: Which Cuban athlete won the men's 110m hurdles gold medal at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing? A: DAYRON ROBLES
Q: The Spanish explorer Francisco de Orellano completed the first known navigation of which river? A: AMAZON
Q: What is the capital of the Turks and Caicos Islands? A: COCKBURN TOWN
Q: "Which of Shakespeare's plays opens with the lines ""Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall""?" A: 'THE COMEDY OF ERRORS'
Q: In 'The Simpsons', by what name is the performer 'Herschel Shmoikel Pinchas Yerucham Krustofski' better known? A: 'KRUSTY THE CLOWN'
Q: "An example includes describing someone as ""not unattractive"" instead of ""attractive"". What name is given, in rhetoric, to a figure of speech in which a statement is expressed by denying its opposite?" A: LITOTES
Q: In 'The Simpsons', by what name is the evil genius 'Robert Underdunk Terwilliger' better known? A: 'SIDESHOW BOB'
Q: The constellation 'Draco' is said to represent which mythical creature? A: DRAGON
Q: Robert Downey Jnr. was nominated for the 2008 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as 'Kirk Lazarus' in which film? A: 'TROPIC THUNDER'
Q: Philip Seymour Hoffman was nominated for the 2008 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as 'Father Brendan Flynn' in which film? A: 'DOUBT'
Q: Who was the wife of King Henry III of England? A: ELEANOR of PROVENCE
Q: In which city are the headquarters of the European A: FRANKFURT
Q: Who wrote the novels 'Go Tell It On The Mountain' and 'Giovanni's Room'? A: JAMES BALDWIN
Q: Which cyclist won the first ever Tour de France in 1903? A: MAURICE GARIN
Q: Which former MI5 secret service agent wrote the controversial book 'Spycatcher'? A: PETER WRIGHT
Q: For his role in which 1987 film did Michael Douglas win an Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of 'Gordon Gecko'? A: 'WALL STREET'
Q: UNITA was the name of the guerrilla army that fought for independence for which African country? A: ANGOLA
Q: Which SAS soldier wrote the book 'Bravo Two Zero', an account of a failed mission during the (1st) Gulf War? A: ANDY McNAB
Q: For his role in which 1997 film did Jack Nicholson win an Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of 'Melvin Udall'? A: 'AS GOOD AS IT GETS'
Q: 'Shining Path' is the name of the guerrilla organisation operating in which South American country? A: PERU
Q: Which Italian design company, best known for its jeans, was founded by Renzo Rosso in Molvena in 1978? A: DIESEL
Q: Which title, referring to a story from Greek mythology, is shared by paintings by Bouguereau, Cabanel and Botticelli? A: THE BIRTH OF VENUS
Q: In 'The Simsons', what is the name of Springfield's baseball team who play their home games at 'Duff Stadium'? A: 'SPRINGFIELD ISOTOPES'
Q: Which breed of dog is 'Scooby Doo'? A: GREAT DANE
Q: In 'The Simpsons', what is the name of the shop owned by 'Ned Flanders' that caters for left-handed people? A: 'THE LEFTORIUM'
Q: Founded by Thomas Stemberg in Massachusetts in 1985, it now has over 2,000 stores in 27 countries. Which is the world's largest office supply company? A: STAPLES
Q: The 'Haber Process' is a reaction of nitrogen and hydrogen in order to produce which gas? A: AMMONIA
Q: Who was the legendary king of Greek mythology who changed all he touched into gold? A: MIDAS
Q: On which Filipino island is the capital city, Manila, located? A: LUZON
Q: Which 2010 3D computer-animated fantasy film follows a young teenager called 'Hiccup' in a mythical Viking world? A: 'HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON'
Q: Caroline Lucas became which party's first MP when she won the Brighton Pavilion seat in last week's General Election? A: GREEN PARTY
Q: What name is given to the traditional Welsh dish made from boiled seaweed rolled in oatmeal and fried in bacon fat? A: LAVERBREAD
Q: Which former Cabinet Minister lost her Redditch parliamentary seat in last week's General Election? A: JACQUI SMITH
Q: What name for the Devil is taken from the Latin word for 'light bearer'? A: LUCIFER
Q: Which English dish, originating in India, consists of smoked haddock, boiled rice, eggs and butter? A: KEDGEREE
Q: Which British cyclist won the Men's Individual Pursuit at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing? A: BRADLEY WIGGINS
Q: Which BAFTA Award winning TV series stars Kenneth Branagh as the eponymous Swedish police inspector? A: 'WALLANDER'
Q: In which European capital city did an earthquake kill around 30,000 people on All Saint's Day in 1755? A: LISBON
Q: Which BAFTA Award winning TV series stars Peter Firth as the head of MI5's counter-intelligence unit? A: 'SPOOKS'
Q: The British archaeologist Arthur Evans was responsible for the excavation of which ancient Minoan palace-city? A: KNOSSOS
Q: What was the pen-name used by the short-story writer William Sydney Porter? A: O. HENRY
Q: Charlotte is the largest city in the 'Tar Heel State'. Which state? A: NORTH CAROLINA
Q: 'Italian' and 'Reformation' are the popular names given to symphonies by which composer? A: FELIX MENDELSSOHN
Q: Bridgeport is the largest city in the 'Nutmeg State'. Which state? A: CONNECTICUT
Q: Which duo had number one hits during the 1990's with 'Block Rockin' Beats' and 'Setting Sun'? A: 'CHEMICAL BROTHERS'
Q: What was the first name of Mr. Fahrenheit, after whom the temperature scale was named? A: GABRIEL
Q: Bishopthorpe Palace is the official residence of the holder of which position? A: ARCHBISHOP OF YORK
Q: Which English Civil War General later led the English forces at the 'Sieges of Limerick' and was made Lord Deputy of Ireland by Oliver Cromwell in 1650? A: HENRY IRETON
Q: What was the first name of Mr. Celsius, after whom the temperature scale was named? A: ANDERS
Q: Bute House is the official residence of the holder of which position? A: FIRST MINISTER OF SCOTLAND
Q: Which General and Commander-in Chief led the New Model Army at the Battle of Naseby in 1645? A: THOMAS FAIRFAX
Q: Which duo had number one hits during the 1980's with 'Heart' and 'It's A Sin'? A: 'PET SHOP BOYS'
Q: Named after the German bacteriologist who invented it, what name is given to the cylindrical lidded dish used by biologists to culture cells? A: PETRI DISH
Q: "Which famous poem by Allen Ginsberg begins with the line ""I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness""?" A: 'HOWL'
Q: "What is defined in physics as ""the product of the mass and velocity of an object""?" A: MOMENTUM
Q: "Which famous poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson begins with the lines, ""On either side the river lie, long fields of barley and rye""?" A: 'THE LADY OF SHALOT'
Q: "What is defined in physics as ""the increase in velocity per unit of time""?" A: ACCELERATION
Q: Named after the German chemist who developed it, what name is given to the common piece of laboratory equipment that produces a single gas flame used for heating and combustion? A: BUNSEN BURNER
Q: Which best-selling American author created the fictional American President 'Jack Ryan'? A: TOM CLANCY
Q: What was the name of the former England international cricketer who became Bishop of Liverpool in 1975? A: DAVID SHEPPARD
Q: In Greek mythology, which god of travel, language and trade served as the messenger to the gods? A: HERMES
Q: One of only two moons in our solar system larger than Mercury, which is the largest satellite of Jupiter? A: GANYMEDE
Q: In Greek mythology, which god of fire, metal working and stonemasonry served as the smith to the gods? A: HEPHAESTUS
Q: What is the name of the current President of Germany? A: CHRISTIAN WULFF
Q: Racing for Red Bull, who is the only Australian competing in the 2011 Formula One season? A: MARK WEBBER
Q: Which archaeological site at the mouth of the River Tiber served as the major port of the Roman Republic? A: OSTIA ANTICA
Q: Which type of richly hued wood is by far the most common wood used for Marimba and Xylophone keys? A: ROSEWOOD
Q: What is the name of the current President of Israel? A: SHIMON PERES
Q: Mentioned in the title of a famous song written by Neil Sedaka and performed by Tony Christie, in which American state could you visit Amarillo? A: TEXAS
Q: Also containing fish, meat or mushrooms, what is the name of the thick, spicy Russian soup, the primary ingredient of which is pickled cucumbers? A: SOLYANKA
Q: Telling the story of a group of birds in the Brazilian jungle, which animated film, featuring voice casting by Jesse Eisenberg and Anne Hathaway, is the highest grossing film worldwide of 2011 so far? A: 'RIO'
Q: 'Gargantua' and 'Pantagruel' are literary works written by which 16th century French author? A: FRANCOIS RABELAIS
Q: 'Germinal' and 'Nana' are literary works by which 19th century French author? A: EMILE ZOLA
Q: Last held in 1437, which Scottish earldom was bestowed upon Prince William on the day of his wedding to Catherine Middleton? A: EARL OF STRATHEARN
Q: The adjective 'pulmonary' means of, or pertaining to, which organ of the body? A: LUNGS
Q: The adjective 'adrenal' means of, or pertaining to, which organ of the body? A: KIDNEYS
Q: Last held in 1883, which Northern Irish barony was bestowed on Prince William on the day of his wedding to Catherine Middleton? A: BARON CARRICKFERGUS
Q: Which footballer, who has spent his entire career at Real Madrid, captained Spain during the 2010 World Cup Final? A: IKER CASILLAS
Q: Which alliteratively-named politician served as Lyndon B. Johnson's Vice-President between 1965 and 1969? A: HUBERT HUMPHREY
Q: Which alliteratively-named politician served as Abraham Lincoln's Vice-President between 1861 and 1865? A: HANNIBAL HAMLIN
Q: Which species of duck, common on British lakes during winter, shares its name with a 'James Bond' film? A: GOLDENEYE
Q: One of the world's most visited art galleries, in which city is the Tretyakov Gallery? A: MOSCOW
Q: Released in 1989, 'Orange Crush' was the first UK top 40 hit for which rock group? A: 'REM'
Q: Which English town shares its name with the capital of the Caribbean island of Tobago? A: SCARBOROUGH
Q: Which American car make, owned by General Motors, took its name from the French explorer who founded Detroit in 1701? A: CADILLAC
Q: Which city in southeast France lies at the confluence of the Rhone and Durance rivers? A: AVIGNON
Q: Which English city shares its name with the capital of the Caribbean island of Monserrat that was destroyed by the Soufriere Hills volcanic eruption in 1995? A: PLYMOUTH
Q: Which American car make, owned by General Motors, took its name from the Native American chief who led a rebellion against English rule in 1763? A: PONTIAC
Q: Which city in northeast France lies at the confluence of the Moselle and Seille rivers? A: METZ
Q: Released in 1981, 'Fire' was the first UK top 40 hit for which rock group? A: 'U2'
Q: The Bob Dylan songs 'Rainy Day Women', 'I Want You' and 'Just Like A Woman' featured on which album? A: 'BLONDE ON BLONDE'
Q: Running from False Divi Point in the north to Cape Comorin on the country's southern tip, what name is given to India's southeastern coastline? A: COROMANDEL COAST
Q: Which city on the River Alun in Pembrokeshire is, with a population of under 2,000, the smallest city in the UK? A: ST. DAVID'S
Q: Running from Goa in the north to Cape Comorin on the country's southern tip, what name is given to India's southwestern coastline? A: MALABAR COAST
Q: The Bob Dylan songs 'Desolation Row', 'Tombstone Blues' and 'Like A Rolling Stone' featured on which album? A: 'HIGHWAY 61 REVISITED'
Q: The French poet Arthur Rimbaud, the confidence trickster Frank Abagnale and the industrialist and aviator Howard Hughes are three of the the real-life people played in Hollywood films by which actor? A: LEONARDO di CAPRIO
Q: The names of five of the six elements that make up the Nobel Gases end with which two letters? A: -ON
Q: In Judaism, what name is given to the Jewish New Year? A: ROSH HASHANAH
Q: The tobacco industry whistleblower Jeffrey Wigand, the Irish-American boxing champion Jim Braddock, and the celebrated mathematician John Forbes Nash are three of the real-life people played in Hollywood films by which actor? A: RUSSELL CROWE
Q: The names of all five elements that make up the Halogens end with which three letters? A: -INE
Q: What name is given to the Jewish Day of Atonement? A: YOM KIPPUR
Q: The Vouli is the name of the parliament in which European country? A: GREECE
Q: Which television scriptwriter created the children's programmes 'The Clangers', 'Ivor the Engine' and 'Bagpuss'? A: OLIVER POSTGATE
Q: In which English county is Flodden Field, the site of the famous battle of the same name? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: What nationality was the composer Jean Sibelius? A: FINNISH
Q: In the human body, what is produced by the Parotid Gland? A: SALIVA
Q: What is the alternative name for the Tenor Tuba? A: EUPHONIUM
Q: For which national football team has the Fulham (& previously Middlesborough) goalie Mark Schwartzer won more than 90 caps? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: Ian Gillan and David Coverdale have both provided lead vocals for 'Rock' group? A: 'DEEP PURPLE'
Q: The character 'James Bond' was created by Ian Fleming, but who wrote the book 'Devil May Care' featuring 'James Bond'? A: SEBASTIAN FAULKS
Q: Who had hits with the songs, 'Lonely Boy' in 1976 and 'Never Let Her Slip Away' in 1978? A: ANDREW GOLD
Q: Which product was advertised to the tune of Bach's 'Air On A G-String'? A: HAMLET CIGARS
Q: Which long-armed orange character was the subject of the first 'Mr. Men' book by Roger Hargreaves, first published in 1971? A: 'MR. TICKLE'
Q: What creature is portrayed on the Victoria Cross? A: LION
Q: Goodluck Jonathan is the current President (2011) of which African country? A: NIGERIA
Q: The Albery Theatre in London was renamed in 2006 after which knighted playwright, composer, director, actor and singer, who was responsible for writing 'London Pride' amongst others? A: NOEL COWARD
Q: Who voiced the character 'Buzz Lightyear' in 'Toy Story'? A: TIM ALLEN
Q: Which god, in Egyptian mythology, had the head of a Jackal? A: ANUBIS
Q: On which lake or inland sea does Kampala stand? A: LAKE VICTORIA
Q: Hamid Karzai is the current (2011) President of which Asian country? A: AFGHANISTAN
Q: Assassinated by his nephew in 1975, of which country was Faisal the king? A: SAUDI ARABIA
Q: What domestic appliance was invented in 1901 by Alva J. Fisher? A: ELECTRIC WASHING MACHINE
Q: Which singer was married to actor Emilio Estevez from 1992 - 1994? A: PAULA ABDUL
Q: Welsh leader Owen Glendower rebelled against which English king? A: HENRY IV
Q: What now common devise was proposed by Townes in 1958 and built by Maiman in 1960? Townes got the Nobel Prize and Maiman filed the patent? A: LASER
Q: Assassinated along with several members of his family in 2001 by the heir to his throne, of which country was Birendra the king? A: NEPAL
Q: Whose figure is depicted on the American award 'The Purple Heart'? A: GEORGE WASHINGTON
Q: What is the capital of the Spanish region of Andalusia? A: SEVILLE
Q: What was the middle name of the character 'Bob Collier' from the t.v. series 'The Likely Lads'? A: 'SCARBOROUGH'
Q: Which component of Microsoft Office generates files with a .doc or .docx file suffix? A: WORD
Q: The Egyptian goddess Bast (or Bastet) had the head of which animal? A: CAT
Q: Which perennial herb appeared on the twelve sided threepenny bit coin? A: THRIFT
Q: Which educational grant system to Oxford University, established by bequest in 1902, finally achieved sexual equality in 1976? A: RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
Q: In which country is Punto Arenas, the most southerly city in the world? A: CHILE
Q: In 2012 which MP controversially took part in the TV show “I’m a Celebrity – Get Me Out of Here”? A: Nadine Dorries
Q: In which country is the HQ of the mobile phone company Nokia? A: Finland
Q: Which famous author lived at “Barnhill” on the island of Jura? A: George Orwell
Q: What nationality was Trygvie Lie, first United Nations Secretary General? A: Norwegian
Q: Which name is hsared by a US state capital and a British shipping forecast area? A: Dover
Q: Tiger Beer originates in which Commonwealth country? A: Singapore
Q: In a statutory set of financial statements of a plc, for what does the I in the acronym EBIT stand? A: Earnings before INTEREST and tax
Q: Which architect designed the Queen’s House Greenwich and the Banqueting House in Whitehall? A: Inigo Jones
Q: Which company created the perfume Nu in 2001 and Paris in 1983? A: Yves Saint-Laurent
Q: Which company created the perfume Dolce Vita in 1995 and Poison in 1985? A: Christian Dior
Q: Which architect designed Blenheim Palace and castle Howard? A: John Vanburgh
Q: What type of creature was the now extinct Solitaire? A: Bird
Q: In 2012 which MP resigned over the “Plebgate” affair? A: Andrew Mitchell
Q: In 2012 which Russian girl group caused outrage by a performance in the cathedral of Christ the Saviour? A: Pussy Riot
Q: Which music hall comedian was known as The Prime Minister of Mirth? A: George Robey
Q: What was the main wood used by Thomas Chippendale in the 18th century? A: Mahogany
Q: Who described herself as “The last of the red hot mommas”? A: Sophie Tucker
Q: Mark Almond was the lead singer of 80’s pop duo Soft Cell, but who was the other member of the band? A: David Ball
Q: In which country is the HQ of clothing retailer H&M? A: Sweden
Q: In which Cumbrian town was William Wordsworth born? A: Cockermouth
Q: Which artist painted The Red Vineyard, the only painting he sold during his lifetime, in 1888 and The Potato Eaters in 1885? A: Vincent van Gogh
Q: In which sport did South African Chad Le Clos win gold at the 2012 Olympic Games? A: Swimming
Q: Which famous author lived at Golden Eye on Jamaica? A: Ian Fleming
Q: What creature is the trademark of Terence Cuneo, appearing in many of his pictures? A: Mouse
Q: Ithica in New York State is the site of which university? A: Cornell
Q: Which breed of terrier derives its name from a mining town in Northumberland and is often described as looking like “a lamb on a leash”? A: Bedlington
Q: Which is the largest island of the Philippines? A: Luzon
Q: By what name do we know the breed of dog , commonly referred to in the southern USA as the bird dog? A: Pointer
Q: Which post was held by Miss Merlyn Lowther from 1999 to 2003? A: Chief Cashier of the Bank of England
Q: Which is the largest peninsula in the world? A: Arabian peninsula
Q: Which American band leader first formed a band in 1934, had the signature tune “Let’s Dance” and died in 1986? A: Benny Goodman
Q: Who did Andy Murray beat to win the 2012 US Open? A: Novak Djokovic
Q: Jodie Foster won an Oscar for her performance in The Silence of the Lambs in 1992. For her performance in which other film was she awarded an Oscar in 1989? A: The Accused
Q: New Haven in Connecticut is the site of which seat of learning? A: Yale
Q: What nationality was U Thant, the third UN Secretary General? A: Burmese
Q: Neil Tennant is the lead singer of The Pet Shop Boys, but who is the other member of the band? A: Chris Lowe
Q: In film making what name is given to the assistant chief lighting technician? A: Best Boy
Q: In which midlands city was Samuel Johnson born? A: Lichfield
Q: Who is New Zealand’s most capped Rugby Union player with 124 test appearences? A: Richie McCaw
Q: In which castle on the Isle of Wight was Charles I imprisoned for 14 months prior to his execution? A: Carisbrooke
Q: Which pre-decimal coin, never minted after decimalisation, was legal tender until 1980? A: Sixpence
Q: The five species of which mammal are the Black, White, Indian, Javan and Sumatran? A: Rhinoceros
Q: In which country do the Hinter Rhine and Vorder Rhine unite to form the River Rhine? A: Switzerland
Q: Which new type of vessel was delivered to the Royal Navy by the Electric Boat company in 1904? A: Submarine
Q: Tarom is the national airline of which European country? A: Romania
Q: On which river does Rangoon stand? A: Irrawaddy
Q: Which is the cheapest property on a Monopoly board? A: Old Kent Road
Q: What is the common name of the bird Sternus vulgaris? A: Starling
Q: Barrow Point is the northernmost point of which country? A: USA
Q: In which Charles Dickens Novel does Esther Summerson appear? A: Bleak house
Q: "In which film does Sean Connery sing ""A Pretty Irish Girl""?" A: Darby O'gill & the Little People
Q: What is the common name for the plant Iberis? A: Candytuft
Q: Who was Al Gore's running mate in their bid for the 2000 US Presidency? A: Joseph Lieberman
Q: What is the common name for the bird Passer domesticus? A: House Sparrow
Q: Which country's national airline is called Malev? A: Hungary
Q: Edward Seckerson replaced Ned Sherrin as presenter in 2007, and was replaced in 2008 by Paul Gambaccini on which Radio 4 programme? A: Counterpoint
Q: What structure, designed by John Paxton for Prince Albert, was destroyed by fire on the 30th November 1936? A: Crystal Palace
Q: Of which African country is Dodoma the official capital city? A: Tanzania
Q: Which monarch (1135-1141) preceded Henry II? A: Stephen
Q: Which station is the London terminus for the Chiltern Railways? A: Marylebone
Q: Whose voice was used for the character Lord Farquaar in the film Shrek? A: John Lithgow
Q: Which river is Hamburg on? A: Elbe
Q: Which famous building, on the South Coast of England did John Nash design for King George IV? A: Brighton Pavilion
Q: Who was the Democratic candidate defeated by George Bush Snr in 1988? A: Michael Dukakis
Q: What is the common name for the plant Vinca? A: Periwinkle
Q: "In May 1987, which actor had top ten hits with ""Respect Yourself"" & ""Under the Boardwalk""?" A: Bruce Willis
Q: In which Charles Dickens novel does the character Bentley Drummie appear? A: Great Expectations
Q: Which celebrated cook was born Isabella Mary Mayson? A: Mrs Beeton
Q: "Whose voice was used for the character Mufasa in the film ""The Lion King""?" A: James Earl Jones
Q: Which astronaut holds the record for the greatest time between spaceflights - a timescale of over 35 years? A: John Glenn
Q: During World War 2, the German Operation Hercules was a plan to invade which island? A: Malta
Q: In which event did Chris Brasher win his gold medal in the 1956 Olympics? A: Steeplechase
Q: Which London Rail station is the terminus of the Midland Main Line? A: St. Pancras
Q: Bow Street, Marlborough Street and which other Street make up the orange properties in Monopoly? A: Vine Street
Q: Herpetology is the study of what? A: Reptiles
Q: Which monarch (1199-1216) preceded Henry III? A: John
Q: What was Dennis Skinner's job before he entered Parliament? A: Miner
Q: Where (in Scotland) is the most westerly point of the British mainland? A: 7
Q: How many hurdles are there in a 400 metres hurdle race? A: 10
Q: Who along with John Cleese wrote 'Fawlty Towers'? A: CONNIE BOOTH
Q: In food, from which country do 'Tapas' originate? A: SPAIN
Q: The 'Ounce' is the alternative name for which large feline predator? A: THE SNOW LEOPARD
Q: In UK politics, who first challenged Margaret Thatcher for leadership of the Conservative Party in 1990? A: MICHAEL HESELTINE
Q: In food, what is the more common name for the 'Chinese Gooseberry'? A: KIWI FRUIT
Q: Who resigned in July 2000 as leader of the Scottish National Party? A: ALEX SALMOND
Q: At the funeral of King Edward VII, which statesman in full dress uniform of a Field Marshall rode on horseback alongside chief mourner King George V? A: KAISER WILHELM II
Q: Which artists' works include the 1899 painting, 'Three Tahitians'? A: PAUL GAUGIN
Q: Which actor went from a bridge in 'The Cruel Sea' to a 'Bridge On The River Kwai'? A: JACK HAWKINS
Q: Which regiment did Lieutenant Colonel Tim Collins command during the recent Iraqi conflict? A: ROYAL IRISH REGIMENT
Q: At which venue in the USA did Malcolm Campbell break the land speed record in 1935? A: DAYTONA BEACH
Q: On the 30th October 1961, who's body was removed during the night from the great mausoleum in Red Square and reburied neat the Kremlin wall? A: JOSEPH STALIN
Q: Which actor pursued 'Dr. Richard Kimble' in the TV series 'The Fugitive'? A: BARRY MORSE
Q: Who was the coach of Scotland during 'France 98'? A: CRAIG BROWN
Q: Which singing duo appeared in 'The Man From U.N.C.L.E.', in 1967? A: SONNY AND CHER
Q: Cricket. Who were the original sponsors of the one-day Sunday League? A: JOHN PLAYER.
Q: Which aeronautics company built the advanced trainer the 'Gnat', for the RAF in 1968? A: HAWKER SIDDLEY
Q: Cricket. The winners of the last Benson & Hedges Cup Final in 1998 were also the winners of the first in 1972. Which county was this? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: The theme tune to which TV series starring Don Johnson gave Jan Hammer his first UK chart success? A: 'MIAMI VICE'
Q: In which year was the 'Achille Lauro' cruise ship hijacked by the P.L.F.? A: 1985
Q: "Which musical instrument is known as a ""woodpile""?" A: XYLOPHONE
Q: Who married Graca Machel in 1998? A: NELSON MANDELA
Q: Who divorced Ronald Regan in 1948? A: JANE WYMAN
Q: Which Belgian city was the site of the first battle between Britain and Germany in World War I? A: MONS
Q: 'Petruchio' appears in which play by Shakespeare? A: 'THE TAMING OF THE SHREW'
Q: Which country is South East Asia has a red rectangular flag surmounted by a gold star? A: VIETNAM
Q: Russian President, Vladimir Putin is an accomplished exponent of which 'martial art'? A: JUDO
Q: Former American president, William Jefferson Clinton is an accomplished exponent with which musical instrument? A: SAXOPHONE
Q: Which Christian sect was founded in the USA in 1848 by John Thomas? A: CHRISTADELPHIANS
Q: In literature, who wrote 'Salem's Lot' and 'Carrie'? A: STEPHEN KING
Q: What is the occupation of Zandra Rhodes? A: FASHION DESIGNER
Q: Which architect designed Coventry Cathedral? A: SIR BASIL SPENCE
Q: From New Zealand, what are 'Kea's' and 'Kaka's'? A: PARROTS
Q: In which sport would you stand on the 'Hack Stay' behind the 'Hogline', aiming for the 'Tee' at the centre of the 'House'? A: CURLING
Q: The Empress Eugenie (1826-1920) was the wife of which European leader? A: THE EMPEROR NAPOLEON III
Q: "Politics. Who in his speech to the House of Commons on the 4th April 1940 said, ""Hitler has missed the bus""?" A: NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN
Q: What was the address of Tony Hancock in 'Hancock's Half Hour'? A: '23 RAILWAY CUTTINGS, EAST CHEAM'
Q: Who in 1497, discovered Newfoundland and claimed North America for Engalnd? A: JOHN CABOT
Q: Who was appointed commander-in-chief of the Parliamentary forces in the English Civil War in 1645? A: SIR THOMAS FAIRFAX
Q: Politics. Who was the Russian President after Yuri Andropov and before Mikhail Gorbachev? A: KONSTANTIN CHERNENKO
Q: Bamako is the capital of which West African Republic? A: MALI
Q: What is the women's equivalent of the Ryder Cup? A: THE SOLHEIM CUP
Q: Conakry is the capital of which West African Republic? A: THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Q: Who in 1975 were the first ever winners of the Cricket World Cup? A: WEST INDIES
Q: "In which magazine was Dickens' ""Oliver Twist"" first serialised?" A: BENTLEY'S MISCELLANY
Q: Over which course is the 'Whitbread Gold Cup' run? A: SANDOWN PARK
Q: Which fish has a curling prehensile tail? A: SEA HORSE
Q: After Paris, which is the next largest French speaking city? A: MONTREAL
Q: What type of creature is a 'Shoat'? A: A YOUNG PIG
Q: Which country has Slovakia to the north, The Ukraine and Romania to the east, Serbia & Montenegro and Croatia to the south, and Austria to the west? A: HUNGARY
Q: What was singer Gary Numan's first number one in the U.K.? A: 'ARE FRIENDS ELECTRIC'
Q: Which prefix vehicle registration letter was the first to be introduced in a month other than August? A: T.
Q: In the TV series 'Batman', who played the part of 'The Joker'? A: CAESAR ROMERO
Q: Which organisation were the arch-enemies of 'Napoleon Solo', 'Ilya Kuriakin' and the 'U.N.C.L.E.' agency? A: T.H.R.U.S.H
Q: What title did Edward I confer on his eldest son in 1301? A: PRINCE OF WALES
Q: From which flower does the insecticide 'Pyrethrum' come? A: CHRYSANTHEMUM
Q: Which Hungarian born US pioneer founded the company which became Paramount Pictures? A: ADOLPH ZUKOR
Q: How many etchings made up Hogarth's 'A Rakes Progress'? A: 8
Q: Who captained Essex County Cricket team during the 1994 season? A: GRAHAM GOOCH
Q: A female horse aged five or more, is called what? A: A MARE
Q: 'Proud Mary', 'Bad Moon Rising', 'Green River' were all in the UK charts in 1969, who released them? A: 'CREEDANCE CLEARWATER REVIVAL'
Q: Which 'DBT' by 'The Simpsons' was No.1 in the UK in March 1991? A: 'DO THE BARTMAN'
Q: Name the British racing driver who came third in his first ever Formula One race in Australia, this year (2007)? A: LEWIS HAMILTON
Q: Which US state is known as 'The Land of Lincoln'? A: ILLINOIS
Q: 'Handbags and Gladrags' is the theme tune of which comedy TV show? A: 'THE OFFICE'
Q: In what year were congestion charges introduced into London? A: 2003
Q: Ignoring the definite and indefinite articles, alphabetically which is the last of Shakespeare's plays? A: 'THE WINTER'S TALE'
Q: Similarly, alphabetically, which would be the first of Shakespeare's plays? A: 'ALLS WELL THAT ENDS WELL'
Q: Who was fatally stabbed by Dimitri Tsafendas? A: Hendrik Verwoerd
Q: Which planet in the solar system has several moons named after characters in Shakespeare's 'A Midsummer- Night's Dream'? A: URANUS
Q: According to Genesis,how old was Methuselah when he died (within 10 years)? A: 969
Q: Which Lancashire actress played the part of 'Daphne Moon' in 'Frasier'? A: JANE LEEVES
Q: Which horse won this year's (2007) Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: KAUTO STAR
Q: "Which bird may be described as ""a small finch with a brownish-green back, with shades of yellow and a black cap""?" A: SISKIN
Q: 'Sushi' is freshfish or other seafood served with rice, but what is usually added to the rice? A: VINEGAR
Q: "Which book ends with the words ""After all, tomorrow is another day""?" A: 'GONE WITH THE WIND'
Q: Which musical comedy features the characters 'Bloom' and 'Bialystock'? A: 'THE PRODUCERS'
Q: In World War II, on which of the Pacific islands was the bloodiest battle fought, resulting in the deaths of 12,000 American troops and 121,000 Japanese? A: OKINAWA
Q: Which 'James Bond' film featured Louis Armstrong singing'You've Got All The Time In The World', in its opening titles? A: 'ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE'
Q: In which country do the Ibo people live? A: NIGERIA
Q: With which singer did Lee Hazlewood sing 'Did You Ever'? A: NANCY SINATRA
Q: Who wrote the plays 'Habeus Corpus' and 'Forty Years On'? A: ALAN BENNET
Q: Aged 52 in 1930, he was England's oldest Test cricketer. Who was he? A: WILFRED RHODES
Q: According to Genesis, howold was Noah when he died (within 10 years)? A: 950
Q: In the 2005 General Election, which candidate had the largest majority? A: GERRY ADAMS
Q: What is 'Crocodile Dundee's' first name? A: MICK
Q: Which Canadian Province has a Pacific coastline? A: BRITISH COLUMBIA
Q: If 'Statics' is the branch of Physics concerned with objects at rest, which branch is concerned with moving objects? A: DYNAMICS
Q: Who disappeared whilst swimming near Melbourne on December 17th.1967? A: HAROLD HOLT
Q: Of which Canadian Province is Labrador a part? A: NEWFOUNDLAND
Q: Which Archbishop of Canterbury was convicted of heresy and burned at the stake? A: THOMAS CRANMER
Q: What is the sum of the interior angles of a pentagon? A: 540
Q: Which city was the setting for the TV series 'Hollyoaks'? A: CHESTER
Q: What was the staple food 'Soylent Green', in the film of the same name, made from? A: HUMAN BEINGS
Q: Which is the southernmost of the Channel Islands? A: JERSEY
Q: Who was the master of 'Lancelot Gobbo'? A: 'SHYLOCK'
Q: What is the name of the trophy awaraded to the winners of the Rugby Union World Cup? A: WILLIAM WEBB ELLIS TROPHY
Q: Which aircraft company made the World War II 'Halifax' bomber? A: HANDLEY PAGE
Q: What was the former name of 'The Maze' prison? A: LONG KESH
Q: Which Italian dance group had a Number One hit in the UK in 1999 with 'Blue'? A: 'EIFFEL 65'
Q: In the film 'Finding Nemo', what sort of fish was 'Nemo'? A: CLOWNFISH
Q: What fruit has varieties called 'Duncan' and 'Marsh'? A: GRAPEFRUIT
Q: What occupation is shared by Beverley Copella and Trevor Sorbie? A: HAIRDRESSING
Q: This woman was chief designer with the 'Chloe' fashion house from 1997 to 2001 before taking up an appointment with 'Gucci'. She married Alasdair Willis in 2003. Who is she? A: STELLA McCARTNEY
Q: The Festival of Britain was held in which park in 1951? A: BATTERSEA PARK
Q: Which is the smaller of Mars' moons? A: DEIMOS
Q: Who has played more matches than any other player in the Premier League? A: GARY SPEED
Q: Who painted 'A Bar At The Folies Bergere'? A: EDOUARD MANET
Q: "Whose tomb bears the inscription ""Reader, if you seek his monument, look around you""?" A: SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN
Q: Which Shakespeare play is subtitled 'All Is True'? A: 'HENRY VIII'
Q: In reaction to which British Prime Minister's speech on African affairs was the 'Monday Club' formed? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: Who was the wife of 'King Priam of Troy' and the mother of 'Hector', 'Paris', 'Troilus' and 'Cassandra'? A: 'HECUBA'
Q: In 1995 the group 'Secret Garden' won the Eurovision Song Contest with 'Nocturne'. Which country did they represent? A: NORWAY
Q: Which English sculptor, engraver, writer, and typographer, who died in 1940, invented a classic typeface which was named after him? A: ERIC GILL.
Q: 'Epidemic parotitis' is better known as what? A: MUMPS
Q: Al Martino's 'Here In My Heart' was the first ever UK number one single, but in which year? A: 1952
Q: In which Dickens novel do 'Lord George Gordon', 'Simon Tappertit'and 'Dolly Varden' appear? A: 'BARNABY RUDGE'
Q: What is another name for the star we know as 'Sirius'? A: DOG STAR
Q: 'Frantic Elevators' was the previous name of which pop group? A: 'SIMPLY RED'
Q: What was the former name of Kiribati? A: THE GILBERT ISLANDS
Q: Whose second marriage was to actress Nancy Davis? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: The cocktail containing Brandy, Cointreau and Lemon juice, is known as what? A: A 'SIDECAR'
Q: After six years of military occupation following World War II, which country regained self-government in 1951? A: JAPAN
Q: Resembling a long-tailed rabbit, which South American rodent is bred in captivity for its soft grey fur? A: CHINCHILLA
Q: What is the state capital of Pennsylvania? A: HARRISBURG
Q: How many tiles are there in a game of 'Scrabble'? A: 100
Q: The characters 'Susan Meyer', 'Lynette Scavo', 'Gabrielle Solis', 'Bree Van De Camp', and 'Mike Delfino' appear in which television show? A: 'DESPERATE HOUSEWIVES'
Q: Which island in the Atlantic that utilizes the Union Jack as part of its national flag, is closest to the USA? A: BERMUDA
Q: 'Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain' is a mnemonic referring to what? A: THE COLOURS OF THE RAINBOW (in order)
Q: Which carmanufacturer produces a model called 'Sonata'? A: HYUNDAI
Q: Who played scientist Barnes Wallis in the film 'The Dambusters'? A: MICHAEL REDGRAVE
Q: Who in 2003 was expelled from the Labour Party for his extreme criticism of the Iraq War made on Dubai television? A: GEORGE GALLOWAY
Q: What is the name of the stadium where the French Open Tennis Championship is held? A: ROLAND GARROS STADIUM
Q: Who acceded the English throne after the death of Edward III? A: RICHARD II
Q: What is the name of the South American tree whose bark contains Quinine? A: CINCHONA
Q: "Correct this quotation by Theodore Roosevelt -""Speak softly and carry a big hammer""?" A: """Speak softly and carry a big STICK"""
Q: Which group had a number one hit for two weeks in 1961 with 'Blue Moon'? A: 'THE MARCELS'
Q: Who is the Member of Parliament for the Yorkshire constituency of Normanton? A: ED BALLS
Q: Roger Moore received a knighthood in 2003 for services to which organisation? A: UNICEF
Q: In which 1995 'Oscar' nominated film did Anthony Hopkins play the part of a US President. Other parts were played by Ed Harris, E.G. Marshall, and David Hyde Pierce? A: 'NIXON'
Q: Ripon in Yorkshire, lies on which river? A: URE
Q: What was Prime Minister Gladstone's middle name? A: EWART
Q: Which gland produces a hormone that increases heart rate and blood pressure in times of stress? A: ADRENAL GLAND
Q: Which motor car manufacturer produced models called the 'Cerbera' and 'Chimeara'? A: TVR
Q: Which book of the Bible recounts the death of Joshua and the life of Samson? A: JUDGES
Q: Which Hungarian composer lived from 1881-1945 - his only opera was 'Duke Bluebeard's Castle'? A: BELA BARTOK
Q: In which country was President Bashir Gemayel assassinated in 1982? A: LEBANON
Q: Canterbury in Kent, lies on which river? A: STOUR
Q: Which soccer team was disbanded in 2008 for financial reasons after only one season in the Scottish Premier League? A: GRETNA
Q: What sort of birds are Strigiforms? A: OWLS
Q: In which television programme did Brian Conley play the part of 'Digby'? A: 'THE GRIMLEYS'
Q: Which pop group consists of Gaz Coombes, Bob Coombes, Danny Goffey, and Mickey Quinn? A: 'SUPERGRASS'
Q: Who is the Member of Parliament for South Shields? A: DAVID MILLIBAND
Q: The term 'Roman Orders' are two of the classical orders of what? A: ARCHITECTURE
Q: Which trailing plant of the Nightshade family produces red or yellow edible fruit? A: TOMATO
Q: In the television programme 'A Year In Provence', which actress played the part of Peter Mayle's wife? A: LINDSAY DUNCAN
Q: Who was shot by Andrew Cunanan in July 1997? A: GIANNI VERSACE
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of chance and fate? A: FORTUNA
Q: Which architect designed the Pompidou Centre, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the Millennium Dome and Heathrow's, Terminal Five? A: RICHARD ROGERS
Q: 'Sarah Gamp', 'Tom Pinch', and 'Mark Tapley' are characters in which Dickens novel? A: 'MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT'
Q: Which 'Oscar' winning film of 2002 starring Adrien Brody, was an autobiographical film about a Polish musician who survived World War II living in Warsaw? A: 'THE PIANIST'
Q: Of all the teams in the 2009 County Cricket Championship, which one would come first alphabetically? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: 'Mrs. Bedwin', 'Noah Claypoe' and 'Rose Maylie' are all characters in which Dickens novel? A: 'OLIVER TWIST'
Q: Alphabetically, which is the first team taking part in Rugby League's Superleague? A: BRADFORD BULLS
Q: In Greek mythology, which Trojan prince was killed by Philoctetes? A: PARIS
Q: What temperature, in degrees centigrade, is Absolute Zero? A: -273
Q: Who became Emperor of Rome after Tiberius? A: CALIGULA
Q: What is the name of the longest bone in the upper arm? A: HUMERUS
Q: Which English composer lived from 1872 to 1958. His last opera was 'Pilgrim's Progress'? A: RALPH VAUGHAN- WILLIAMS
Q: Which book of the Bible describes the 'Four Horsemen of the Apocolypse' and gives the 'number of the beast' as 666? A: REVELATIONS
Q: What word connects a mythical magician with a small falcon? A: MERLIN
Q: Who trained 'Red Rum' to win three Grand Nationals? A: GINGER McCAIN
Q: Who played the part of 'Clayton Farlow' in 'Dallas'? A: HOWARD KEEL
Q: In which small Welsh village were over 100 children killed by a coal mine slag heap in 1966? A: ABERFAN
Q: Which medical condition is caused by a lack of red blood cells or haemoglobin in the blood? A: ANAEMIA
Q: Which meringue dessert, decorated with whipped cream and fresh fruit, originated in Australia and New Zealand, and was named after a famous early 20th century Russian ballet dancer? A: PAVLOVA
Q: Which disease, caused by an increased level of Bilirubin in the blood, derives its name from the French for yellow? A: JAUNDICE
Q: Who was the American serial killer, nicknamed 'The Green River Killer', who, at his trial in 1983, confessed to the murders of 48 women in Washington State? A: GARY RIDGEWAY
Q: In 'South Park', what is the name of the boy's teacher who had a sex change in series 9 before deciding he was male after all in series 12? A: 'MR. GARRISON'
Q: What was the name of the paycock in Sean O'Casey's play 'Juno And The Paycock'? A: 'JACK BOYLE'
Q: Cape Farewell is a headland which constitutes the southernmost part of which island? A: GREENLAND
Q: In 'South Park', which former head of state is depicted as the lover of Satan? A: SADDAM HUSSEIN
Q: Who was the English dressmaker, nurse and housekeeper who was hanged in 1873 for the murder of 20 people, including 3 of her husbands, by arsenic poisoning? A: MARY ANN COTTON
Q: Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings led military coups in which African country in 1979 and 1981? A: GHANA
Q: Which singer had a number one hit in April 2010 with 'OMG'? A: USHER
Q: In which ex-Soviet state was Eduard Shevardnadze displaced as President after the 'Rose Revolution' of 2003? A: GEORGIA
Q: According to legend, who was King Arthur's illegitimate son who fought against Arthur at the Battle of Camlann? A: MORDRED
Q: Which German footballer won the Golden Boot award for scoring the most goals at the finals of the 2006 Football World Cup? A: MIROSLAV KLOSE
Q: Which architect designed the Monument to the Great Fire of London on Pudding Lane in London? A: CHRISTOPHER WREN
Q: Which 'New Town' in Hertfordshire was founded in 1903 as the world's first 'Garden City'? A: LETCHWORTH
Q: Which architect designed the Roman Catholic basilica known as La Sagrada Familia in Barcelona? A: ANTONI GAUDI
Q: Which town in Hertfordshire was designated the UK's first 'New Town' in 1946? A: STEVENAGE
Q: Which professional Snooker player from Canada was known as 'The Grinder' because of his slow determined style of play? A: CLIFF THORBURN
Q: A 'Dobson Unit' is a measurement of the thickness of what? A: OZONE LAYER
Q: Which pretender to the English throne landed in England in 1495 in an attempt to overthrow King Henry VII, and was hanged at Tyburn? A: PERKIN WARBECK
Q: Which American writer shot and killed his ex-wife during a drunken party game in Mexico City in 1951? A: WILLIAM S. BURROUGHS
Q: In meteorology, what is measured in 'Oktas'? A: CLOUD COVER
Q: Who was the ten-year-old child pretender to the throne of England during the time of Henry VII who claimed, falsely, to be the Earl of Warwick? A: LAMBERT SIMNEL
Q: For what did the 'S' stand in the name of American author William S. Burroughs? A: SEWARD
Q: Which former postman won the World Snooker Championship at his first attempt in 1979? A: TERRY GRIFFITHS
Q: Which religious denomination was founded by John Thomas in 1848? A: CHRISTADELPHIANS
Q: Which English poet, known as the 'Northamptonshire Peasant Poet', was committed to an asylum from 1837 until his death? A: JOHN CLARE
Q: Deriving from the Turkish for 'black ear' because of its distinctive black ears, what is the common name for the cat that is also known as the 'Persian or African Lynx'? A: CARACAL
Q: Which Victorian painter, noted for his pictures of fairies and other supernatural creatures, murdered his father in 1843 and was committed to a lunatic asylum for the remaining 43 years of his life? A: RICHARD DADD
Q: The East River separates Long Island from which New York borough? A: MANHATTAN
Q: Which ecumenical Christian community was founded by the Scottish clergyman Reverend George MacLeod in 1938? A: IONA COMMUNITY
Q: To what did the Gilbert Islands change its name after gaining independence from Britain in 1979? A: KIRIBATI
Q: Jeff Bridges won this years 'Oscar' for Best Actor for his role as 'Otis Blake', in which film? A: 'CRAZY HEART'
Q: What term describes the point at which a celestial object in orbit around the Earth, such as the Moon, makes its closest approach to Earth? A: PERIGEE
Q: Which Liberal Democrat has been appointed Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change, in David Cameron's first Cabinet? A: CHRIS HUHNE
Q: To what did the New Hebrides change its name after gaining independence from France and Britain in 1980? A: VANUATU
Q: In which country is the popular coffee-flavoured liqueur 'Tia Maria' produced? A: JAMAICA
Q: In terms of area, which is the world's largest landlocked country? A: KAZAKHSTAN
Q: What is the name of the special agent played by Keifer Sutherland in the drama series '24'? A: 'JACK BAUER'
Q: Which English cricketer scored a then world record 364 runs against Australia at the Oval in 1938? A: LEN HUTTON
Q: Prior to the break-up of the Soviet Union, which was the world's largest landlocked country in terms of area? A: MONGOLIA
Q: In 1990, which New Zealand bowler became the first cricketer to take 400 wickets in Test Cricket? A: RICHARD HADLEE
Q: The explorer Mungo Park died whilst exploring which African river? A: NIGER
Q: 'Dookie' and '21st. Century Breakdown' are albums by which American rock band? A: 'GREEN DAY'
Q: In which country was former England footballer Terry Butcher born? A: SINGAPORE
Q: Which of the Romantic Poets wrote 'The Revolt Of Islam'? A: PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY
Q: Which legislation, passed in 1701, banned Roman Catholics from the British throne? A: ACT OF SETTLEMENT
Q: The Cotswold Way runs from Chipping Camden to which city? A: BATH
Q: Who was the first player to score seven hundred centuries in Snooker? A: STEPHEN HENDRY
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'Go The Distance' come? A: 'HERCULES'
Q: Of which Pacific country is Papeete the capital? A: TAHITI
Q: In which Charles dickens novel does the character 'Esther Summerson' appear? A: 'BLEAK HOUSE'
Q: Who directed the 2008 film 'The Hurt Locker'? A: KATHERYN BIGELOW
Q: The 'Oregon Trail' finished in the Columbia River area of Oregon, where did it start? A: INDEPENDENCE, Missouri
Q: Who directed the 1957 film 'The Bridge On The River Kwai'? A: DAVID LEAN
Q: In which of Dickens' novels does 'Jerry Cruncher' appear? A: 'A TALE OF TWO CITIES'
Q: Who in a novel, first published in 1848 was 'Mrs. Helen Graham'? A: 'THE TENANT OF WILDFELL HALL'
Q: Which legislation, passed in 1534 declared Henry VIII the Head of the Church of England? A: ACT OF SUPREMACY
Q: With which art movement was Georges Braque associated? A: CUBISM
Q: Who wrote the Whitney Huston number one hit 'I Will Always Love You'? A: DOLLY PARTON
Q: Four Irishmen have won the Nobel Prize for Literature. Yeats, Shaw and Becket are three, name the other? A: HEANEY
Q: "Which British writer's epitaph ends, ""Home is the sailor, home from the sea. And the hunter home from the hill""?" A: ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Q: Which French artist, 1848 - 1903, painted 'The Yellow Christ' and 'Two Women On A Beach'? A: PAUL GAUGIN
Q: What is the capital of Tuvalu? A: FUNAFUTI
Q: "Which American poet's epitaph is ""Quotes The Raven Nevermore""?" A: EDGAR ALLAN POE
Q: From which film, for which Chaplin wrote the music, did Petula Clark have a number one with 'This Is My Song'? A: 'COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG'
Q: Which river rises on the Tibetan Plateau, flows northwest and then south and southwest to enter the Arabian Gulf in the Seven Rivers area south of Karachi? A: INDUS
Q: In which Dickens novel does 'Eugene Wrayburn' marry 'Lizzy Hexam'? A: 'OUR MUTUAL FRIEND'
Q: Who wrote the 'Roxy Music' number one hit 'Jealous Guy'? A: JOHN LENNON
Q: Which ruler's name translates from the Egyptian for 'Great House'? A: PHARAOH
Q: What in World War II was 'Operation Torch'? A: ALLIED INVASION OF NORTH AFRICA
Q: 'Will's Neck' is the highest point in which range of English hills? A: QUANTOCKS
Q: Her 2009 album is called 'Quiet Nights', so which Canadian jazz singer and pianist is married to Elvis Costello? A: DIANA KRALL
Q: According to 'Acts', what peak was the location of the 'Ascension of Jesus'? A: MOUNT OF OLIVES
Q: Which writer created the character of 'Detective Inspector Jack Frost'? A: R.D. WINGFIELD
Q: Which French footballer was World Footballer of the Year in 1998 and 2000? A: ZINADINE ZIDANE
Q: Near which town or city is the 'Legoland' theme park? A: WINDSOR
Q: The character 'James Bond' was created by Ian Fleming, but who wrote the book 'Carte Blanche' featuring 'James Bond'? A: JEFFERY DEAVER
Q: Who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with John Hulme in 1998? A: DAVID TRIMBLE
Q: 'Charolais' and 'Semental' are both breeds of what? A: CATTLE
Q: In the classic 1933 film 'King Kong', what is the name of the island where 'Kong' is discovered? A: 'SKULL ISLAND'
Q: In the 1897 novel 'Dracula', at which seaport in England does the title character make landfall in a violent storm? A: WHITBY
Q: Justin Timberlake first entered the pop charts in 195 as a member of which boy band? A: 'NSYNC'
Q: 'The Pleiades' and 'Crab Nebula' are in which constellation? A: TAURUS
Q: What name is given to a large semi-circular or polygonal recess in a church, arched or with a domed roof and situated typically at the church's eastern end? A: APSE
Q: Preceding 'Cubs', what name is given to the youngest section of the Scouting movement in the UK? A: 'BEAVERS'
Q: Near which town or city in the 'Lightwater Valley' theme park? A: RIPON
Q: What is the North African dish of crushed wheat or course flour steamed over broth called? A: COUSCOUS
Q: The 'Daiquiri' cocktail was named after a town in which country? A: CUBA
Q: Which mountain in Europe do the French call 'Mount Cervin', and the Italians 'Monte Silvio'? A: MATTERHORN
Q: Which volcano, one of the Lipari Islands, is nicknamed 'The Lighthouse of the Mediterranean'? A: STROMBOLI
Q: Which starchy staple food of Africa, used to make 'Farofa Flour', also known as 'Manioc'? A: CASSAVA
Q: The 'Stratocaster' is a model of which make of guitar? A: FENDER
Q: Which was the only 'Wonder of the Ancient World' located in what is now Iraq? A: 'HANGING GARDENS OF BABYLON'
Q: 'Operation Jubilee' was the World War II codename for the attack on which seaport in 1942? A: DIEPPE
Q: One of the 'Seven Wonders of the Ancient World' was the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus. Near which modern tourist resort is the site located? A: BODRUM
Q: Which writer created the character of 'Detective Inspector Jane Tennyson'? A: LYNDA LA PLANTE
Q: Which part of a church building, situated near the altar, is reserved for the clergy and choir, and is typically separated from the nave by steps or a screen? A: THE CHANCEL
Q: What type of law court has replaced the Assize Court? A: CROWN COURT
Q: Which paper size is four times larger than A5? A: A3
Q: In which city was the actor and writer Alan Bennett born? A: Leeds
Q: If you ordered “Homard” in a French restaurant, which shellfish would you be served? A: Lobster
Q: Which capital city is known to its inhabitants as Lefkosia? A: Nicosia
Q: In which British city is Great Victoria Street railway station? A: Belfast
Q: What was the name of Cutthroat Jake’s ship in the Captain Pugwash TV series? A: The Flying Dustman
Q: Which book by Andrea Levy was the Booker Prize winner of the year in 2004? A: Small Island
Q: Which book by Mark Haddon was the Booker Prize winner in 2003? A: The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night Time
Q: Which comedian died on stage during the TV show “Live From Her Majesty’s” in April 1984? A: Tommy Cooper
Q: What is the more common name of the garden plant Calendula? A: Marigold
Q: Who starred in and directed the 1993 film “A Bronx Tale”? A: Robert De Niro
Q: Which famous architect designed the unbuilt Roman Catholic Cathedral in Liverpool? A: Edwin Lutyens
Q: Who directed and starred in the 2008 film “Grand Torino”? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: With which instrument do you associate jazz musician Erroll Garner? A: Piano
Q: What is the parliamentary constituency of Caroline Lucas, former leader of the Green Party? A: Brighton Pavilion
Q: Who created the cartoon strip “The Perishers”? A: Maurice Dodd
Q: Which element, atomic number 5, has the chemical symbol B? A: Boron
Q: After whom is the international airport at Genoa named? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: Whose statue, in Merrion Square, is known to irreverent Dubliners as “The Fag on the Crag”? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which vitamin is also known as Retinol/ A: Vitamin A
Q: What is the more common name for the garden flower Antirrhinum? A: Snapdragon
Q: Which famous architect designed the Albert Memorial in London? A: George Gilbert Scott
Q: As at September 2012, who presents Radio 2’s “Pick of the Pops” an Sundays from 2:30 to 4:30pm? A: Tony Blackburn
Q: Which group, prominent in the 1990’s, featured Chris Novoselic on bass and Dave Grohl on drums/ A: Nirvana
Q: Sage Moonblood is the child of which action film actor and director? A: Sylvester Stallone
Q: Which British Prime Minister is buried in Spynie churchyard, Lossiemouth? A: Ramsay McDonald
Q: Which British Prime Minister attended Chatham House School in Ramsgate? A: Ted Heath
Q: Which group, prominent in the 1980’s, featured Johnny Marr on guitar, Andy Rourke on bass and Mike Joyce on drums? A: The Smiths
Q: As of September 2012, who presents Radio 2’s “Good Morning Sunday” show from 7:00 to 9:00am? A: Clare Balding
Q: In which city are the headquarters of West Mercia Police? A: Worcester
Q: What is the parliamentary constituency of Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party? A: Banff and Buchan
Q: In which city was actor and writer Michael Palin born? A: Sheffield
Q: Which song was a top 40 hit for both Oasis and Mike Flowers Pops in 1995? A: Wonderwall
Q: Which element, atomic number 15, has the chemical symbol P? A: Phosphorus
Q: Which comic actor died on stage (literally) at the Sunderland Empire in April 1976? A: Sid James
Q: Which instrument does jazz musician Courtney Pine play/ A: Saxophone
Q: In 1995 the company National Breakdown changed its name – to what? A: Green Flag
Q: Which female vocalist had a 2001 hit with the song “Here With Me”? A: Dido
Q: In which country was the first motorway built? A: Italy
Q: Which Chancellor, executed in 1535, became the patron saint of politicians? A: Sir Thomas More
Q: A costermonger sells fruit and vegetables, usually from a barrow. Which particular item did a costermonger originally sell? A: Apples
Q: The daughter of which famous author of many children’s books wrote “A Childhood at Green Hedges”? A: Enid Blyton
Q: The domed folly known as the Ashton Memorial overlooks which English city? A: Lancaster
Q: Which World War Two general was nicknamed ‘Vinegar Joe’? A: Joseph Stillwell
Q: In which American state does the Mississippi river enter the Gulf of Mexico? A: Louisiana
Q: Which Thames dredger made the headlines in 1989 when it rammed the Marchioness pleasure boat? A: The Bowbelle
Q: Which powerful illuminant gas is produce from the action of water on calcium carbide? A: Acetylene
Q: Newcastle United manager Alan Pardew was reprimanded after head butting a player from which Premier League team? A: Hull City
Q: What is the more common name of hydrated magnesium silicate? A: Epsom Salts
Q: Trappist monks are a stricter version of which religious order? A: Cistercian
Q: Emil Zatopek won the 5000 and 10000 metres at the 1952 Olympics. In which event did his wife Dana also win a gold medal? A: Javelin
Q: Which is England’s southernmost landlocked county? A: Wiltshire
Q: The Lempira is the main unit of currency in which central American country? A: Hondura
Q: Which golfer won the British Open, US Open and Canadian Open in 1971? A: Lee Trevino
Q: What is the name of the traditional stiff skirt worn by Greek and Albanian men? A: Fustanella
Q: What name is given to the point of a planet’s orbit furthest from the sun? A: Aphelion
Q: When the rock band Free disbanded, Paul Rodgers and Simon Kirke went on to form which other group? A: Bad Company
Q: Which Austrian racing driver was the posthumous Formula One world champion in 1970? A: Jochen Rindt
Q: The filbert is an alternative name for which nut? A: Hazelnut
Q: Which French cyclist won the Tour de France four consecutive times in the 1960’s? A: Jacques Anquetil
Q: Which fashion designer, girlfriend of Mick Jagger, committed suicide in New York earlier this year? A: L’Wren Scott
Q: Which motorcycle company made models called the Manx, the International and the Dominator? A: Norton
Q: Once punningly depicted on a British coin, the sea pink is an alternative name for which flower? A: Thrift
Q: In Judaism, what name is given to the ram’s horn blown in a synagogue as a call to repentance? A: Shofar
Q: In the Chinese zodiac, 2014 is the year of which animal? A: Horse
Q: Which rock group did Steve Marriot form with Peter Frampton after leaving The Small Faces? A: Humble Pie
Q: The Bishop of Durham signs himself “Dunelm”. Similarly, which name is used by the Bishop of Rochester? A: Roffen
Q: Invar is an alloy chiefly consisting of iron and which other metallic element? A: Nickel
Q: Which Coronation Street character has been played fro several years by Chris Gascoyne? A: Peter Barlow
Q: Which is England’s northernmost landlocked county? A: West Yorkshire
Q: Which Yorkshire Rugby League club were the first team to retain the Challenge Cup/ A: Batley
Q: Which lone gunman went on the rampage around the town of Hungerford in 1987? A: Michael Ryan
Q: Who played scout Flint McCullough in the TV western series “Wagon Train”? A: Robert Horton
Q: In mythology, which female gave Theseus a ball of thread to guide him out of the labyrinth? A: Ariadne
Q: Which is the only state of the USA to share a land border with Maine? A: New Hampshire
Q: How are the lovers Vrechen and Sali described in the title of a 1906 opera by Frederick Delius? A: A Village Romeo and Juliet
Q: In November 1943 Winston Churchill met the other allied leaders for a conference in which capital city? A: Tehran
Q: Former West Bromwich Albion footballer Nicholas Anelka made an apparently anti-Semitic gesture after scoring a goal against which Premier League club? A: West Ham United
Q: Mount Narodnaya is the highest point in which dividing range? A: Urals
Q: Which former sportsman, now a BBC presenter, provides the voice for the children’s TV programme “Underground Ernie”? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Who wrote “Tree and Leaf” and “Farmer Giles of Ham”? A: JRR Tolkein
Q: Who designed the cover of the album The Velvet Underground & Nico? A: ANDY WARHOL
Q: In which city was Christopher Columbus born? A: GENOA
Q: What colour are the star and crescent on the flag of Pakistan? A: WHITE
Q: The last holder of which post, abolished in 1964 was the second Earl Jellicoe – previous holders include Winston Churchill (from 1911 to 1915 and 1939 to 1940)? A: FIRST LORD OF THE ADMIRALTY
Q: Monument to the Unknown Woman Worker is a sculpture by Louise Walsh on Great Victoria Street near to the Europa Hotel in which British city? A: BELFAST
Q: The prefix micro- means a factor of ten to what negative power? A: 6
Q: What is the English title of the French police drama Engrenages shown on BBC4? A: SPIRAL
Q: How many laps are there in the Indianapolis 500 motor race? A: 200
Q: At which school were actors Eddie Redmayne, Damian Lewis and Dominic West educated? A: ETON COLLEGE
Q: Where in the body is the occipital artery? A: HEAD
Q: The city known as Stalingrad from 1925 to 1961 stands on which major river? A: VOLGA
Q: Complete the full title of the 1776 publication by the economist Adam Smith An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of ______________________. A: THE WEALTH OF NATIONS
Q: Which club resigned from the Football League in 1962 to be replaced by Oxford United? A new club was formed with the same name and won promotion to the League in 2006. One of the two clubs they replaced was Oxford United. A: ACCRINGTON STANLEY
Q: EY is the name of one of the Big Four professional service companies (tax, audit etc.). What was its full name before a rebranding in 2013? A: ERNST & YOUNG
Q: Known by his initials F U, what is the name of the Old Etonian Conservative politician created by Michael Dobbs and played on British TV by Ian Richardson? A: FRANCIS URQUHART
Q: If the elements in the periodic table are arranged alphabetically which is the first with four letters in its name? A: GOLD
Q: The title of the novel As I Lay Dying by William Faulkner comes from a line in the Odyssey by which Greek poet? A: HOMER
Q: Which composer, born on this date in 1928, wrote the music for the songs Magic Moments and Twenty Four Hours from Tulsa? A: BURT BACHARACH
Q: Beat It and Billie Jean are singles from which Michael Jackson album? A: THRILLER
Q: Which A road crosses the Forth Road Bridge? A: A90
Q: Chance Meeting is a sculpture by Tom Murphy at Liverpool Lime Street Station of Ken Dodd and which female politician who lived from 1899 to 1970? A: BESSIE BRADDOCK
Q: Of which country does Brigitte Nyborg become the first female Prime Minster in the drama Borgen shown on BBC4? A: DENMARK
Q: The city known as Titograd from 1946 to 1992 is the capital of which modern day country? A: MONTENEGRO
Q: The Swale is an inlet of sea that separates which island from Kent? A: SHEPPEY
Q: What is the middle name, her stage name, of Barbadian born singer Robyn Fenty? A: RIHANNA
Q: Three of the four nominations for the BAFTA TV Award for Best Actor in 1982 were John Gielgud, Jeremy Irons and Anthony Andrews (who won) for their roles in which period drama? A: BRIDESHEAD REVISITED
Q: In which country are the global headquarters of the professional services company KPMG? A: NETHERLANDS
Q: Which organisation has won the Nobel Peace Prize three times, in 1917, 1944 and 1963? A: RED CROSS
Q: The world record for which athletics event is 8.95 metres for men? A: LONG JUMP
Q: Which Carry On film features characters The Khasi of Kalabar, Private James Widdle and the 3rd Foot and Mouth Regiment? A: CARRY ON UP THE KHYBER
Q: Who wrote the recent book for children Awful Auntie? A: DAVID WALLIAMS
Q: In which city was Marco Polo born? A: VENICE
Q: The flag of Vietnam is a yellow star on a background of what colour? A: RED
Q: Which TV drama was set in the offices of McKenzie, Brackman, Chaney and Kuzak? A: L A LAW
Q: In which year of the First World War was the Battle of Verdun? A: 1916
Q: Who was the time keeper when Roger Bannister ran the first sub four- minute mile? A: NORRIS McWHIRTER
Q: What name is given to the position of the Moon in it's orbit, when it is closest to the Earth? A: PERIGEE
Q: Edward II was murdered in the south tower of which castle? A: BERKELEY CASTLE
Q: What is the main ingredient of the traditional Scottish soup, 'Partan Bree'? A: CRAB
Q: What was the name of New York's 'JFK Airport' before it was renamed in honour of the assassinated President? A: IDLEWILD
Q: Who was the first Soviet leader not to be buried in Moscow's 'Red Square'? A: NIKITA KRUSCHEV
Q: What is the setting for Beethoven's opera 'Fidelio'? A: A PRISON
Q: What is the summer residence of the French President? A: FONTAINEBLEAU
Q: The Isle of Man's 'Laxey Wheel' is the largest water wheel in the world. What name is it known by? A: LADY ISABELLA
Q: On which river is the Cabora Bassa dam situated? A: ZAMBESI RIVER
Q: Cuba and Jamaica are part of which group of West Indian islands? A: GREATER ANTILLES
Q: Who was the expedition leader when Edmund Hillary became the first person to climb Mount Everest? A: JOHN HUNT
Q: In the Christian church in Britain, which feat day falls on the first Thursday after Trinity Sunday? A: CORPUS CHRISTI
Q: Which scale is used to measure the intensity, not the magnitude, of earthquakes? A: THE MODIFIED MERCALLI INTENSITY SCALE
Q: Who is credited with being the first Archbishop of Canterbury? A: AUGUSTINE
Q: What is the name of the national UK charity that was founded by Sir Arthur Pearson in 1915 to help blind ex- servicemen and women? A: ST. DUNSTAN'S
Q: Which is Britain's oldest public museum? A: THE ASHMOLEAN MUSEUM
Q: Which opera does the famous aria 'Nessun Dorma' come from? A: 'TURANDOT'
Q: Which is the only one of New York's five boroughs that is situated on the mainland? A: THE BRONX
Q: Which American disc jockey is credited with putting the name to 'Rock 'n' Roll' music? A: ALAN FREED
Q: Which military operation of World War II had the codename 'Operation Dynamo'? A: EVACUATION OF DUNKIRK
Q: Which London station did the 'Flying Scotsman' depart from on it's daily journey to Edinburgh? A: KING'S CROSS
Q: What was the title of the only painting that Vincent van Gogh sold during his lifetime? A: 'THE RED VINEYARD'
Q: In which country is the source of the River Danube? A: GERMANY
Q: The 'Battle of Agincourt' took place during which war? A: THE HUNDRED YEARS WAR
Q: In 1799, which British Prime Minister introduced a new Income Tax to help finance the war against France? A: WILLIAM PITT (the younger)
Q: Before Bill Clinton, who was the last Democrat President of America? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: Which planet in our soar system spins on its axis faster than any of the other planets? A: JUPITER
Q: By which name does the oil company, Esso, trade as in America? A: EXXON MOBIL
Q: On which ship did Price Andrew serve during the Falklands War? A: H.M.S. INVINCIBLE
Q: What was the name of the horse that was made a Consul by Caligula when he was Emperor of Rome? A: INCITATUS
Q: What is the correct name for Birmingham's 'Spagheti Junction'? A: GRAVELLY HILL INTERCHANGE
Q: Which organisation was founded by Reverend Chad Varah in 1953? A: THE SAMARITANS
Q: What is the bonus for placing a letter of a word on a red square in a game of 'Scrabble'? A: TRIPLE WORD SCORE
Q: Who was the female actress that starred with Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in the famous 'Road To' films? A: DOROTHY LAMOUR
Q: "When asked why he wanted to climb Everest, which famous mountaineer replied. ""Because it' there""?" A: GEORGE MALLORY
Q: What was the pseudonym of the Swiss born architect, Charles Edouard Jeanneret? A: LE CORBUSIER
Q: The first five books of the Bible, the Five Books of Moses, are known by which name in the Jewish religion? A: THE TORAH
Q: Which computer programming language was named after Charles Babbadge's assistant, Lady Lovelace? A: ADA
Q: Who was the founder of Harrow Public School? A: JOHN LYON
Q: Spurn Point Lighthouse is situated at the mouth of which river estuary? A: HUMBER
Q: Which was the first British postage stamp to be issued with perforations? A: PENNY RED
Q: Which amendment to the American Constitution abolished slavery? A: THIRTEENTH
Q: Which Japanese mountaineer was the first woman to reach the summit of Mount Everest? A: JUNKO TABEI
Q: Who is the only U.S. President to have held a patent? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: Which lingerie and hosiery makers were named after a horse that won the Oaks, St. Leger and the 1000 Guineas? A: PRETTY POLLY
Q: What is the correct verbal title used when addressing a Baron? A: """MY LORD"""
Q: Which member of the 'The Spice Girls' released the 2001 single, 'Lullaby'? A: MEL B
Q: Which actress plays 'Lynn Bracken' in the 1997 film, 'L.A. Confidential'? A: KIM BASSINGER
Q: What is the correct verbal title used when addressing a Cardinal? A: """YOUR EMINENCE"""
Q: What wasthe 'Prisoners Temporary Discharge For Ill- Health Act of 1913' better known as? A: 'CAT AND MOUSE ACT'
Q: On which holiday island are the peaks of 'Ruivo' and 'Arieiro', and the airport of 'Santa Cruz'? A: MADEIRA
Q: On June 11th 1903, King Alexander and Queen Draga were murdered in their bedroom. Of which European country were they the reigning monarchs? A: SERBIA
Q: On which Mediterranean island is the World Heritage Site of 'Dalt Vila'? A: IBIZA
Q: The 'Balfour Declaration' of December 1917 set out the British government's full support fora permanent homeland, for who? A: THE JEWISH PEOPLE
Q: In which television 'soap' would you once have found the character 'Darcy Tyler'? A: 'NEIGHBOURS'
Q: Of what is 'Ekistics' the study? A: HUMAN SETTLEMENTS
Q: Which British city was known to the Romans as Magnus Portus? A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: By what more familiar name are Leucocytes known? A: WHITE BLOOD CELLS
Q: Which town and moor in Yorkshire was known to the Romans as Olicana? A: ILKLEY
Q: In which opera by Rimsky-Korsakov does 'King Dodon' appear? A: 'THE GOLDEN COCKEREL'
Q: Who rode the 1978 Derby winner 'Shirley Heights'? A: GREVILLE STARKEY
Q: On which holiday island will you find the towns of Maliaand Sitia? A: CRETE
Q: Which author wrote 'A Town Like Alice'? A: NEVILLE SHUTE
Q: Which classic horserace, run annually at Epsom, was won by 'Love Divine' in 2000? A: THE OAKS
Q: Lake Balaton is the largest lake in central Europe, in which country is it? A: HUNGARY
Q: Whose stories include 'The Legend Of Sleepy Hollow'? A: WASHINGTON IRVING
Q: What is the title of the opera by Wagner, that makes up the third part of the 'Ring Cycle'? A: 'SIEGFREID'
Q: Who was the faithful wife of Odysseus in Homer's 'Odyssey'? A: PENELOPE
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard, which is the only vowel that does not appear on the top row? A: THE LETTER 'A'
Q: What sort of guides were published by George Bradshaw? A: RAILWAY GUIDES
Q: In mythology, who was poisoned by the blood from Nessus tainted with toxin from Hydra? A: HERCULES
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard, what is the last letter on the right of the middle row? A: THE LETTER 'L'
Q: Which actor starred with Sigorney Weaver and Melanie Griffithsin 'Working Girl'? A: HARRISON FORD
Q: Who won the Booker Prize for 'The Old Devils'? A: KINGSLEY AMIS
Q: In which English county is the Isle of Purbeck? A: DORSET
Q: Who wrote 'Sexus', 'Nexus'and 'Plexus' that collectively make up 'The Rosy Crucifixion'? A: HENRY MILLER
Q: What was the name ofthe character played by Richard Griffiths in the TV series 'Pie In The Sky'? A: HENRY CRABBE
Q: In Greek mythology, which mountain nymph fell in love with Narcissus? A: ECHO
Q: Which Tennis player beat Serena and Venus Williams inconsecutive matches at the 2001 Australian Open? A: MARTINA HINGIS
Q: Which carbohydrate is also called 'milk sugar'? A: LACTOSE
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of the Moon? A: SELENE
Q: Who won the Men's Singles at the 2001 Australian OpenTennis Championships? A: ANDRE AGASSI
Q: Which British philosopher's books include, 'Principles Of Mathematics'? A: BERTRAND RUSSELL
Q: What was the name of the underground movement in rural France that fought against the Germans in WW II? A: 'THE MAQUIS'
Q: What colour is the cheek-patch of the European Goldfinch? A: RED
Q: Who was the secretary-General of the Commonwealth from 1975 - 97? A: SONNY RAMPHAL
Q: What colour are the feetand legs of a Greylag Goose? A: PINK
Q: Which terrorist organisation was responsible for the hijacking of the cruise ship 'Achille Lauro'? A: THE PALESTINIAN LIBERATION FRONT
Q: Which artist painted 'Dancer At The Barre'? A: EDGAR DEGAS
Q: Who was known as 'Longshanks'? A: EDWARD I
Q: In mythology, which creatures had the heads of women and the bodies of birds? A: THE HARPIES
Q: Which song was written by Arthur Sullivan in sorrow at the death of his brother? A: 'THE LOST CHORD'
Q: Which Liverpool group was named after a John Wayne film? A: 'THE SEARCHERS'
Q: In which year did Josef Stalin die? A: 1953
Q: Which ship rescued most of the survivors of the 'Titanic'? A: S.S. CARPATHIA
Q: Which is the largest rodent in the world? A: CAPYBARA
Q: In which part of southern Afghanistan are most of the British troops deployed? A: HELMAND PROVINCE
Q: Who became a monarch after the death of Henry VIII? A: EDWARD VI
Q: Which country was the first to win football's African Nations Cup? A: EGYPT
Q: In an opera by Wagner, which eponymous group held a song contest, the prize being the hand of 'Eva'? A: 'THE MEISTERSINGERS'
Q: In the Bible, from what was 'Eve' created? A: ADAM'S RIB
Q: What was the name of the character played by Anna Wing in 'Eastenders'? A: 'LOU BEALE'
Q: In which opera by Offenbach does a poet relate three stories about the loves of his life? A: 'TALES OF HOFFMAN'
Q: In astrology, name the only star sign not represented by aliving creature? A: LIBRA
Q: What is the name of the 'pre-Roman Road' that runs from Norfolk to Wiltshire? A: ICKNIELD WAY
Q: In which Dickens novel do 'Bitzer', 'Sleary', and 'James Harthouse' appear? A: 'HARD TIMES'
Q: Which pop group was named for the schoolboy hero of the film 'Back To The Future'? A: 'McFLY'
Q: From which ship did Grace Darling and her father rescue seven survivors in 1838? A: FORFARSHIRE
Q: In which year did Sir Anthony Eden resign as Prime Minister? A: 1957
Q: Cliff Richard's 'Living Doll' featured in which 1959 film? A: 'SERIOUS CHARGE'
Q: On March 22nd 2007, naval personnel from which British warship were arrested and imprisoned by the Iranian navy? A: H.M.S. CORNWALL
Q: What do Americans call a Hare? A: JACKRABBIT
Q: Which is the most northerly lake in the Cumbrian 'Lake District'? A: BASSENTHWAITE
Q: Which Biblical king was the son of David and Bathsheba? A: SOLOMON
Q: How many Umpires are there in a game of Baseball? A: FOUR
Q: What is Gordon Brown's first name? A: JAMES
Q: Which 1997 film starring Danny de Vito, Russell Crowe, Kim Bassinger and Kevin Spacey was about a woman whose similarity to Veronica Lake involves her in a murder investigation? A: 'L.A.CONFIDENTIAL'
Q: Which cartoon featured 'Benny the Ball', 'Spook' and 'Officer Dibble'? A: 'TOP CAT'
Q: If Pluto is no longer recognised as a planet, which is the smallest planet in the solar system? A: MERCURY
Q: What was the 'Boston Strangler's' real name? A: ALBERT de SALVO
Q: Name the dragonthat guarded the treasure in 'The Hobbit'? A: 'SMAUG'
Q: "Which Italian spaghetti literally means ""little worms""?" A: VERMICELLI
Q: Who was the better known wife of Earl Leofric of Chester? A: LADY GODIVA
Q: Which everyday objects are featured in the painting 'The Persistence Of Memory'? A: CLOCKS AND WATCHES
Q: In which film were 'Dan Gallagher', 'Beth Gallagher' and 'Alex Forrest' the main characters? A: 'FATAL ATTRACTION'
Q: Inuktitut and Danish are the official languages of which island country? A: GREENLAND
Q: In which sport was Graeme Obree briefly world record holder in 1993, only to lose it to another Briton shortly afterwards? A: CYCLING
Q: In which county is the Isle of Sheppey? A: KENT
Q: Who won the Best Supporting Actor 'Oscar' for his role in 'An Officer And A Gentleman'? A: LOUIS GOSSETT Jr
Q: Which artist painted the picture, 'The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp' in 1632? A: REMBRANDT
Q: "Which twentieth century US President once said, ""They say hard work never killed anyone, but why take the chance""?" A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: By what other name is the 'Battle of the Nile' (1798) known? A: ABOUKIR BAY
Q: In the 2008 Olympics, Mark Hunter won a gold medal in which sport? A: ROWING
Q: Who wrote 'The Leatherstocking Stories'? A: JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
Q: Drill, Poplin and Velour are all types of what? A: FABRIC
Q: Who is credited with the design of the 'Mini skirt'? A: MARY QUANT
Q: Who was British Prime Minister at the time of the 'American Declaration of Independence'? A: LORD NORTH
Q: The magnificent altarpiece in the Cathedral of Ghent and the 'Arnolfini Wedding' are masterpieces painted by which 15th.century Flemish artist? A: JAN VAN EYCK
Q: In which Irish city does the Salmon Weir Bridge span the River Corrib? A: GALWAY
Q: Jose Socrates has been Prime Minister of which country since 2005? A: PORTUGAL
Q: What is the distinctive feature of birds of the class 'ratites'? A: FLIGHTLESS
Q: Which European country was ruled by the House of Braganza, 1640-1910? A: PORTUGAL
Q: In Greek mythology, who was abducted by Zeus disguised as a bull? A: EUROPA
Q: Which island country has two languages, Greek and Turkish? A: CYPRUS
Q: Donald Tusk has been the Prime Minister of which country since 2007? A: POLAND
Q: In the 2008 Olympics, Louis Smith won Britain's first ever medal (bronze) in which sport? A: GYMNASTICS
Q: Which stretch of water lies between North and South islands, New Zealand? A: COOK STRAIT
Q: The name of which part of the former Roman province of Dacia, translates into English as 'land beyond the forest'? A: TRANSYLVANIA
Q: The 'Foumart' or 'Foul-Marten', is an old name for which creature? A: POLECAT
Q: Who won the Best Supporting Actor 'Oscar' for his role in 'Jerry Maguire'? A: CUBA GOODING Jr
Q: The Fosse way runs southwest from Lincoln to which city? A: EXETER
Q: After which film star is the airport in Orange County, California named? A: JOHN WAYNE
Q: In which Irish city can one stroll along the Mardyke Wall, between the north and south channels of the River Lee? A: CORK
Q: Which American poet, translator and critic born in 1885 was indicted for treason for making Fascist radio broadcasts during World War Two? A: EZRA POUND
Q: In 1938 at the age of 19, which jockey became the youngest ever winner of the Grand National? A: BRUCE HOBBS
Q: "According to Tobias Smollet, who was ""the great cham (ruler) of literature""?" A: DR. JOHNSON
Q: In the 13th century French tales about 'Reynard the Fox', what is the name of the cockerel? A: 'CHANTICLEER'
Q: Who is the Roman goddess of the hearth? A: VESTA
Q: Who rules in the form of government known as 'Stratocracy'? A: MILITARY
Q: Which US President is featured on a $5.00 bill? A: LINCOLN
Q: Who won the 2010 'Oscar' for Best Actor for the film 'Crazy Heart'? A: JEFF BRIDGES
Q: The New England range of mountains (highest point Ben Lomond) are in which Commonwealth country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: Which colonial power governed Mauritius before the British? A: FRANCE
Q: American Chester Carlson invented which now common office machine? A: COPYING MACHINE
Q: New Britain, the largest island of the Bismark Archipelago, is part of which country? A: PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Q: Excluding Sir Alex Ferguson, who is the most recent Scottish manager to lead his team to victory in the English FA Cup Final? A: GEORGE GRAHAM
Q: Which novelist wrote 'The Dubliners'? A: JAMES JOYCE
Q: Which operetta, first performed in 1874, features the character 'Gabriel von Eisenstein', who is given a prison sentence for insulting an official, and is then conspired against by, amongst others, a notary called 'Dr. Falke'? A: 'DIE FLEDERMAUS'
Q: What was the name of the Irish dancer who founded the Royal Ballet School? A: NINETTE DE VALOIS
Q: In which British city would you find Perry Bar Greyhound Stadium? A: BIRMINGHAM
Q: In which modern-day African country was the author Wilbur Smith born? A: ZAMBIA
Q: Mikhail Fokine was the chief choreographer to which ballet company from 1909-1914? A: BALLET RUSSE
Q: In which North American city was singer Bryan Adams born? A: VANCOUVER
Q: Who invented the game of 'Monopoly'? A: CHARLES DARROW
Q: In Greek mythology who was the sister of Helen and wife of Agamemnon? A: CLYTEMNESTRA
Q: Who designed the dome of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome? A: MICHELANGELO
Q: In which British city would you find Shawfield Greyhound Stadium? A: GLASGOW
Q: Who was the Liberal Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1892 to 1894? A: WILLIAM GLADSTONE
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the following line come ""All that glisters is not gold""?" A: 'MERCHANT OF VENICE'
Q: Which book of the Old Testament includes the Ten Commandments? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: In Greek mythology who was the son of Poseidon and God of the Wind? A: AEOLUS
Q: Where in the human body can you find the 'Choroid'? A: EYE
Q: Which colonial power ruled Tanganyika before the British? A: GERMANY
Q: Founded in France in 1945 and with currently 39 international editions, which monthly women's fashion magazine published its first UK edition in 1985? A: ELLE
Q: Owned by the Mondadori arm of the Berlusconi empire, which women's weekly fashion magazine was established in Italy in 1938 with its British edition starting in 2005? A: GRAZIA
Q: Which one word can mean the following: a hound used for hunting hares, a long slender bird of prey, and one who persistently carries out attacks on an enemy? A: HARRIER
Q: Trevor Eve played 'Eddie Shoestring' on TV, which British actor a former TV soldier played the boss of the radio station he worked for? A: MICHAEL MEDWIN
Q: In which 2009 TV series did actors Larry Lamb and Alison Steadman appear? A: 'GAVIN AND STACEY'
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the following line come, ""All the world's a stage and all the men and women merely players""?" A: 'AS YOU LIKE IT'
Q: Who painted the 'Marriage Of The Virgin' found in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan? A: RAPHAEL
Q: Which novelist wrote 'The Bostonians'? A: HENRY JAMES
Q: In which modern-day African country was the author William Boyd born? A: GHANA
Q: Which author wrote a series of books about the private investigator 'Jemima Shore'? A: ANTONIA FRASER
Q: What was built in Berlin in 1778, after a victory of the Prussian Army? A: BRANDENBURG GATE
Q: Which of Christ's 'Twelve Apostles' is buried in Spain? A: ST. JAMES (The Great)
Q: Which cruise liner caught fire and burned out in Gladstone Dock, Liverpool in 1953? A: EMPRESS OF CANADA
Q: Who left BBC TV to become ITV's chief political editor, replacing Michael Brunson? A: JOHN SERGEANT
Q: Cauliflower and Broccoli belong to which family of vegetables? A: BRASSICAS
Q: In which opera is the heroine a Druid priestess? A: 'NORMA'
Q: In which year was 'Oxfam' founded? A: 1942
Q: Which European city is served by 'Malpensa Airport'? A: MILAN
Q: In which Charles Dickens novel does the character 'Bentley Drummle' appear? A: 'GREAT EXPECTATIONS'
Q: Which bird is also known as the 'Yaffle', an imitation of its cry? A: THE GREEN WOODPECKER
Q: Who directed the 1968 film 'The Producers'? A: MEL BROOKES
Q: Which city was the capital of the Untied States from 1790 to 1800? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: Give the name of the villain from the 'Friday the 13th.' series of movies? A: JASON (Vorhees)
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'When You Wish Upon A Star' come? A: 'PINOCCHIO'
Q: Which city was the capital of the Philippines from 1946 to 1975? A: QUEZON CITY
Q: What is the fruit of the Carambola tree called? A: STAR FRUIT
Q: Emma Thompson has won an 'Oscar' as Best Actress and for which other category? A: (adapted) SCREENPLAY
Q: Which 1956 science fiction film was based on Shakespeare's 'The Tempest'? A: 'THE FORBIDDEN PLANET'
Q: Which rider was the first to win the Tour de France six times? A: LANCE ARMSTRONG
Q: Who directed the 1951 film 'The African Queen'? A: JOHN HUSTON
Q: Who was Mrs. Larry Fortensky until early 1996? A: ELIZABETH TAYLOR
Q: Dunkery Beacon is the highest point of which moorland in the UK? A: EXMOOR
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'The Bare Necessities' come? A: 'THE JUNGLE BOOK'
Q: Which chemical element, number 67 takes its name from the Latin for Stockholm? A: HOLMIUM (Holmia)
Q: What is L. Frank Baum's most famous story? A: 'THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ'
Q: Which French artist, 1839-1906, painted 'The Card Players' and 'Mont Sainte Victoire'? A: PAUL CEZANNE
Q: Give the full name of the villain from the 'Nightmare On Elm Street' series of movies? A: 'FREDDIE KRUGER'
Q: Which manufacturer was the first to win two hundred Formula One Grand Prix? A: FERRARI
Q: Who was Athina Roussel's multi-millionairess mother? A: CHRISTINA ONASSIS
Q: Which former chart topping British duo re-formed in 1999 to record an album titled 'Peace'? A: EURYTHMICS
Q: Which constituency was represented by Tony Blair? A: SEDGEFIELD
Q: Which country does the pop group 'Savage Garden' come from? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: At which sport is Briton Nick Matthew the current World Champion? A: SQUASH
Q: Who presented the weekday mid-morning show on BBC Radio 1 from 1967 to 1973, moving to Radio 2 until his retirement in 2002? A: JIMMY YOUNG
Q: Who was Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1993 to 1997? A: KENNETH CLARKE
Q: What is the two-word name of the airport at Castle Donington in Leicestershire? A: EAST MIDLANDS
Q: Who had the 'Christmas Number One' in 1986 with 'Reet Petite'? A: JACKIE WILSON
Q: In which Welsh county are Rhyl, Llangollen and Prestatyn? A: DENBIGHSHIRE
Q: The hymn 'I Vow To Thee My Country' is sung to music from which of 'The Planets' by Gustav Holst? A: JUPITER
Q: How are the poems 'Burnt Norton', 'East Coker', 'The Dry Salvages' and 'Little Gidding' by TS Eliot known collectively? A: 'THE FOUR QUARTETS'
Q: Which 17th century painting in the National Gallery was slashed in 1914 by suffragette Mary Richardson? A: 'ROKEBY VENUS'
Q: Which Orrell winger scored a hat-trick of tries against Scotland, helping England to win the Rugby Union Grand Slam in 1980? A: JOHN CARLETON
Q: Which London thoroughfare runs between Hyde Park Corner and Marble Arch? A: PARK LANE
Q: 'Cio-Cio San' and her maid 'Suzuki' appear in which Puccini opera? A: 'MADAME BUTTERFLY'
Q: What is the maiden name of Michelle Obama? A: ROBINSON
Q: Who won a Best Actor 'Oscar' for playing the character 'Charles Edward Chipping'? A: ROBERT DONAT
Q: Which novel is set in Dublin on June 16th 1904? A: 'ULYSSES'
Q: John Crome and John Sell Cotman were associated with which provincial art movement founded in 1803? A: NORWICH SCHOOL
Q: In the Bible, who was the mother of Joseph and Benjamin? A: RACHEL
Q: Which London Underground line runs from West Ruislip to Epping? A: CENTRAL
Q: 'Gilda' is the daughter of which eponymous character in a Verdi opera? A: 'RIGOLETTO'
Q: What is the maiden name of Samantha Cameron? A: SHEFFIELD
Q: Sid Weighell, Jimmy Knapp and Ray Buckton were trade union officials in which industry in the 1970's and 1980's? A: RAILWAYS
Q: Which is the largest town in the County of Anglesey? A: HOLYHEAD
Q: The hymn 'Dear Lord And Father Of Mankind' is usually sung to which tune by Hubert Parry? A: 'REPTON'
Q: Which event completes the indoor Pentathlon - 60 metre hurdles, high jump, long jump, 800 metres and ...........? A: SHOT PUT
Q: Who won a Best Actor 'Oscar' for playing the character 'Charlie Allnut'? A: HUMPHREY BOGART
Q: 'Memoirs Of A Woman Of Pleasure' is the original title of which frequently banned book? A: 'FANNY HILL'
Q: 'Well done @vika7 in Melbourne' was a tweet about which Tennis player earlier this year after she won her first Grand Slam singles title? A: VICTORIA AZARENKA.
Q: Laurel and Hardy's only Academy Award together was for which short film featuring the moving of a piano? A: 'THE MUSIC BOX'
Q: How are the novels 'Justine', 'Balthazar', 'Mountolive' and 'Clea' by Lawrence Durrell known collectively? A: 'THE ALEXANDRIA QUARTET'
Q: In 2002 Paul Kelleher attempted to decapitate a marble statue of Margaret Thatcher using what 'weapon', he failed, but succeeded using a metal rope support stanchion? A: CRICKET BAT
Q: Based at Poolstock Greyhound Stadium, in which sport did the 'Wigan Warriors' compete in the 1947 National League, before becoming the Fleetwood Flyers' the following year? A: SPEEDWAY
Q: Which English actor plays US Marine Sergeant 'Nicholas Brody', who was rescued after eight years held by Al- Qaeda as a prisoner-of-war, in the drama 'Homeland' shown on Channel 4? A: DAMIEN LEWIS
Q: In which event did Chris Hoy win a Gold Medal at the recent World Track Cycling Championships? A: KEIRIN
Q: Who was the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs from 1997 to 2001? A: ROBIN COOK
Q: What is the two-word name of the airport at Yeadon in West Yorkshire? A: LEEDS BRADFORD
Q: Who had the Christmas number one in 1990 with 'Saviour's Day'? A: CLIFF RICHARD
Q: In 1742 Willian Pulteney was created the first Earl of which city? A: BATH
Q: Which entertainer is married to 1975 'Miss World' Wilnelia Merced? A: BRUCE FORSYTH
Q: Which Manchester building was home to the Halle Orchestra until 1996? A: FREE TRADE HALL
Q: What relation was Richard II to his predecessor Edward III? A: GRANDSON
Q: What nationality was the mathematician Leonhard Euler (1707- 1783)? A: SWISS
Q: Which female singing voice has a range between soprano and contralto? A: MEZZO SOPRANO
Q: In which decade did W B Yeats and G B Shaw win the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: 1920S
Q: Which 2008 Woody Allen directed film is set in Spain? A: VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA
Q: Who was the last Old Etonian Prime Minister before David Cameron? A: ALEC DOUGLAS-HOME
Q: Who is missing from this list of Artistic Directors of the National Theatre – Laurence Olivier, Peter Hall, Richard Eyre and Nicholas Hytner? A: TREVOR NUNN
Q: Which country became landlocked as a result of the War of the Pacific (1879 to 1883)? A: BOLIVIA
Q: By which two words is the chemical compound with the formula KMnO4 known? A: POTASSIUM PERMANGANATE
Q: How many ossicles are there in each human ear? A: THREE
Q: Who rowed the Atlantic in 1966 with John Ridgway? A: CHAY BLYTH
Q: Which band is composed of three brothers and their cousin, all called Followill? A: KINGS OF LEON
Q: Under what title has the series of fantasy novels A Song of Ice and Fire been adapted for TV? A: GAME OF THRONES
Q: Who is the regular Chairman of “Any Questions?” on BBC Radio 4? A: JONATHAN DIMBLEBY
Q: What type of jet aircraft is a VLJ? A: VERY LIGHT JET
Q: Which College of Oxford University, founded in 1438, is the first alphabetically? A: ALL SOULS
Q: Which was the third country after Australia and England to play test cricket? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: In which town is the Great Yorkshire Showground? A: HARROGATE
Q: Complete the slogan used in a 1960s US Presidential Election – ‘All the Way with ___'. A: LBJ
Q: Viti Levu is the largest island in which Pacific nation? A: FIJI
Q: Which England cricket captain was born in Madras in 1968? A: NASSER HUSSAIN
Q: Who commanded the Spanish Armada in 1588? A: DUKE OF MEDINA SIDONIA
Q: Which 2011 Woody Allen directed film is set in France? A: MIDNIGHT IN PARIS
Q: Excerpts from The Nutcracker Suite are included in Disney’s Fantasia. Which work by Paul Dukas features Mickey Mouse attempting magic tricks? A: THE SORCERER’S APPRENTICE
Q: Kenneth Clark, Neil MacGregor, Charles Saumarez Smith and currently Nicholas Penny have been Directors of which art museum? A: NATIONAL GALLERY
Q: Which capital city stands on the shore of the Caspian Sea? A: BAKU
Q: Who is the only female driver to win a race in the IndyCar Series, the 2008 Indy Japan 300 - she also has the highest finishing place for a female in the Indianapolis 500 race when she was third in 2009? A: DANICA PATRICK
Q: Green Pea, Turkey Noodle and Cream of Celery were among the 32 varieties of soup produced by which company in 1962 as shown in a famous artwork? A: CAMPBELL’S
Q: In the Harry Potter series what is the name of Harry’s pet owl? A: HEDWIG
Q: Ian Fletcher, played by Hugh Bonneville, formerly the Head of the Olympic Deliverance Commission, has taken up the position of Head of Values at the BBC in which recent BBC2 comedy series? A: W1A
Q: Give either of the middle names of author George R R Martin. A: RAYMOND RICHARD
Q: Who presented the BBC Radio 4 quiz Counterpoint until 2006? A: NED SHERRIN
Q: What was the name of the home ground of Stoke City FC from 1878 until 1997? A: VICTORIA GROUND
Q: Name the only Colombian to win a Nobel Prize. A: GABRIEL GARCÍA MÁRQUEZ
Q: The Church of the Savior on Spilled Blood, built on the site of the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, is in which Russian city? A: ST PETERSBURG
Q: How is an oxbow lake known in Australia? A: BILLABONG
Q: Who wrote the song Easter Parade? A: IRVING BERLIN
Q: Andrew Lincoln plays deputy sheriff Rick Grimes in which TV horror drama series? A: The Walking Dead
Q: Name the Scottish island where granite for curling stones is quarried. A: Ailsa Craig
Q: Which 2014 Tom Cruise film had the tagline Live, Die, Repeat? A: Edge of Tomorrow
Q: Which European won the 2014 U.S Open Golf Championship? A: Martin Kaymer
Q: In Egyptian mythology the god Sebek is associated with which creature? A: Crocodile
Q: What name is given to sewing or gluing patches of material onto a garment or piece of material for decoration A: Applique
Q: Which Country's Parliament is the Folketing? A: Denmark
Q: To which order of monks did Tomas De Torquemada belong? A: Dominican
Q: In which US state are the cities of Nogales, Surprise and Yuma? A: Arizona
Q: Who is the current Master of the Queen's Music? A: Judith Weir
Q: What name is given to the scientific study of the size and shape of the earth? A: Geodesy
Q: Who became UKIP's first MP when he won the Clacton by-election in October 2014? A: Douglas Carswell
Q: In geological ages, which period was the first of the Mesozoic Era? A: Triassic
Q: In which English town or city would you find Meadowhall Shopping Centre? A: Sheffield
Q: “In The Mood” was which bandleader's signature tune? A: Joe Loss
Q: Who was the Roman god of the sun? A: Sol
Q: Which comedy duo had a Number one hit with The Stonk in 1991? A: Hale and Pace
Q: Which Australian animal gets its name from a native word meaning “No drink”? A: Koala
Q: What women was Time Magazine man of the year in 1952? A: Queen Elizabeth II
Q: Name the soft cloth made from silk that derives its name from the French word for rag. A: Chiffon
Q: Who played The Lone Ranger in the 1950's TV series? A: Clayton Moore
Q: “Go Set A Watchman” is a long awaited sequel to which novel published in 1960? A: To Kill a Mocking Bird
Q: Which Crystal Palace manager became the first casualty of this season's Premier League when he got sacked in December 2014? A: Neil Warnock
Q: In which Canadian city is there a Nelson's Column erected in 1809, It has from time to time become controversial with some of the local people? A: Montreal
Q: Name the year: SAS stormed the Iranian Embassy in London; Ronald Reagan was elected President and Rhodesia gained independence? A: 1980
Q: What is a more familiar name for Deuterium Oxide? A: Heavy Water
Q: Grand Mal and Petit Mal are two types of which illness A: Epilepsy
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of agriculture? A: Demeter
Q: Which two comedy actors had a hit in 1978 with you're the one that I want? A: Arthur Mullard and Hylda Baker
Q: In which US state would you find the cities of Chesapeake, Roanoke and Fredericksburg? A: Virginia
Q: What sort of fish makes an Arbroath Smokie? A: Haddock
Q: What would be measured on a Galvanometer? A: Electric Current
Q: In geological ages, which period was the Last of the Palaeozoic era? A: Permian
Q: Cosette, Marius and Fantine are characters in which book and film? A: Les Miserables
Q: 'Cap de Formentor' is the northernmost point of which popular holiday island? A: MAJORCA
Q: "Which composer's dying words were supposedly, ""I shall hear in heaven""?" A: BEETHOVEN
Q: A fungus that thrives in wet Spring weather causes 'chocolate spot' on the leaves and stems of which vegetable? A: BROAD BEAN
Q: In the original television run of 'Crossroads', which character was played by Roger Tonge? A: 'SANDY RICHARDSON'
Q: Which 'Coronation Street' character was played for may years by Jean Alexander? A: 'HILDA OGDEN'
Q: Which Canadian Province has Victoria as its capital, and is crossed by the River Fraser? A: BRITISH COLUMBIA
Q: The youngest son of 'William the Conqueror' succeeded to the throne after his brother William. Who was he? A: HENRY I
Q: Which Irish Rugby Union player scored a hat-trick of tries against France in the 2000 Six Nations Championships? A: BRIAN O'DRISCOLL
Q: Which Canadian Province, with a border on Hudson Bay, has Winnipeg as its capital? A: MANITOBA
Q: Of what was 'Frey' the god, in Norse mythology? A: FERTILITY
Q: The 'Hallux' is the medical name for what, in the human body? A: BIG TOE
Q: Two members of the 'Thrush' family visit Britain in huge numbers during the winter. If one is the 'Fieldfare', what is the other? A: REDWING
Q: In 1994, Conchita Martinez became the first Spanish woman to win the Wimbledon singles title. Who did she beat in the Final? A: MARTINA NAVRATILOVA
Q: The 'House Martin' is a common summer visitor to these shores, so too is which other 'Martin'? A: SAND MARTIN
Q: What was the first item of non-stick cookware marketed by 'Teflon'? A: FRYING PAN
Q: Which European nation finished third in football's 1974 and 1982 World Cup Tournaments? A: POLAND
Q: "Besides Sir Anthony Hopkins, which other ""Tony"" starred in the 1998 swashbuckler, 'The Mask Of Zorro'?" A: ANTONIO BANDERAS
Q: Often used as bedding or house plants, how is Impatiens walleriana better known? A: BUSY LIZZIE
Q: Which Roald Dahl novel features the 'Oompa Loompas'? A: 'CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY'
Q: French mariner, Jacques Cartier, left home in 1534 to sail across the Atlantic, to explore which river? A: ST. LAWRENCE
Q: First sighted by Bartholomew Diaz in 1488, he named it then 'Cape of Storms'. What is it now called? A: CAPE OF GOOD HOPE
Q: What was the name of the little girl in the popular children's novel by Johanna Spyri? A: 'HEIDI'
Q: Known scientifically as Triflorum hybridum and white or pink in colour, what type of flower is 'Alsike'? A: CLOVER
Q: Who replaced Dr. John Reid as Secretary of State for Scotland? A: HELEN LIDDELL
Q: Who marries 'Petruccio' in Shakespeare's, 'The Taming Of The Shrew'? A: KATHERINA
Q: In Shakespeare's, 'The Merchant Of Venice', who has servants named 'Balthasar' and 'Stefano'? A: 'PORTIA'
Q: Nineteenth century Japanese artist, Hokusai, made a series of 36 prints of what? A: MOUNT FUJI
Q: Which of the principal Canary Islands contains no peak higher than 700 metres? A: LANZAROTE
Q: Which American city has baseball-playing 'Dodgers'? A: LOS ANGELES
Q: What disease claimed the life of notorious American gangster, Al Capone? A: SYPHILIS
Q: From what disease did the English buccaneer, Sir Francis Drake, die? A: DYSENTRY
Q: What is the origin of the word 'chipping' in place names such as Chipping Norton? A: MARKETPLACE
Q: Which intermittent wars between 1793 and 1815 included the battles of 'Aspern' and 'Austerlitz'? A: NAPOLEONIC WARS
Q: 'Petrology' is the study of the origin, structure and composition of what? A: ROCKS
Q: Whose 1769 expedition included the task of observing the transit of the planet Venus over Tahiti? A: JAMES COOK
Q: Which 10th century explorer founded an Icelandic colony which he named 'Greenland', to encourage people to settle there? A: ERIK THE RED
Q: Which is the third largest of the Channel Islands? A: ALDERNEY
Q: What is the oldest order of knighthood still in existence in Britain? A: ORDER OF THE GARTER
Q: Who wrote, 'Blott On The Landscape'? A: TOM SHARPE
Q: "Who painted ""The Binding Of Samson"" (1636) and ""Jacob Blessing The Sons Of Joseph"" (1656)?" A: REMBRANDT
Q: Which Scottish football team moved home from Broomfield Park to the Shyberry Excelsior Stadium? A: AIRDRIE UNITED
Q: The name of which sport is used for a letter in the phonetic alphabet? A: GOLF
Q: In the movie world, how is Nicholas Kim Coppola better known? A: NICOLAS CAGE
Q: From which continent did the flower Freesia originate? A: AFRICA (southern)
Q: "Which company uses the slogan ""innovations beyond petroleum""?" A: B.P
Q: Which building in Paris did Richard Rogers and Enzo Piano design? A: THE POMPIDOU CENTRE
Q: In which town or city would you find the 'Cairngorm Brewery'? A: AVIEMORE
Q: Which director won the 'Oscar' for Best Director for the picture 'Traffic' in 2000? A: STEVEN SODERBERGH
Q: For which king did Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester act as regent or protector? A: HENRY VI
Q: Who is 'Harry Potter's' schoolboy enemy? A: MALFOY
Q: Roger Fry, Vanessa Bell, and Duncan Grant were part of which English art movement in the 1920's and 30's? A: BLOOMSBURY GROUP
Q: Which group of mammals belong to the order, Chiroptera? A: BATS
Q: What name is given to the edge of a flag nearest the flagpole? A: HOIST
Q: Tahiti is part of which island group? A: SOCIETY ISLANDS
Q: Who was President of Poland from 1990 to 1995? A: LECH WALESA
Q: Which American city is served by 'Blue Grass Airport'? A: LEXINGTON
Q: To which island group does Guadalcanal belong? A: SOLOMON ISLANDS
Q: Which boxer won the Olympic gold medal at Middleweight in 1976, and then went on to win the World Professional title at both Light-heavyweight and Heavyweight? A: MICHAEL SPINKS
Q: Which group of mammals belong to the order Cetacea? A: WHALES (and Dolphins)
Q: In 'The Simpson's', what was the name of 'Ned Flanders' ' wife? A: MAUDE
Q: Which architect designed Regent's Park, Regent Street, and the Marble Arch? A: NASH
Q: Which group released the albums; 'Cloud Cuckoo Land' and 'Sense And Jollification'? A: LIGHTENING SEEDS
Q: In which region in France is Camembert cheese produced? A: NORMANDY
Q: For which young king did Edward Seymour, Duke of Somerset, act as regent or protector? A: EDWARD VI
Q: What is the surname of 'Harry Potter's' schoolboy friend 'Ron'? A: WEASLEY
Q: Which Scottish football team moved home from Annfield to the Forthbank Stadium? A: STIRLING ALBION
Q: Where in the human body is the 'Ileum'? A: SMALL INTESTINE
Q: In the TV show 'The Simpsons', what is the name of the police chief? A: CLANCY WIGGUM
Q: Which group had number one hits in the 1970's with 'Tiger Feet' and 'Oh Boy'? A: MUD
Q: """Createur d'automobiles"", is a slogan used by which car manufacturer?" A: RENAULT
Q: What is another name for the 'gullet'? A: OESOPHAGUS
Q: What name is given to a shield or emblem within a flag? A: CHARGE
Q: Common salt is a compound formed from two elements, one is Sodium, which is the other? A: CHLORINE
Q: Who has presented both 'Blue Peter' and 'The Money Programme'? A: VALERIE SINGLETON
Q: Which flavouring is added to Brandy and Egg yolk to make Advocaat? A: VANILLA
Q: Whose autobiography is entitled 'Memoirs Of An Unfit Mother'? A: ANNE ROBINSON
Q: On a standard 'Monopoly' board, what property is found between'Chance' and 'Super Tax'? A: PARK LANE
Q: 'Pixie', 'Hispi' and 'Primo' are all types of which vegetable? A: CABBAGE
Q: Which Director links the films, 'Far And Away', 'Backdraft' and 'The Grinch Who Stole Christmas'? A: RON HOWARD
Q: The 'Argun' and'Khotan' are rivers in which country? A: CHINA
Q: Where in the human body would you find the 'Inferior Concha'? A: THE NOSE
Q: In 1937 which company introduced, in Switzerland, a greatly improved version of instant coffee? A: NESTLE
Q: The £1.00 note ceased to be legal tender in which year? A: 1988
Q: On which African country's flag would you see the emblem of the 'soapstone bird'? A: ZIMBABWE
Q: Fredericton is the capital of which Canadian province? A: NEW BRUNSWICK
Q: What nickname is often used for a male with the surname of Miller? A: 'DUSTY'
Q: In knitting, what stitch is produced by Knitting a plain stitch backwards? A: PURL STITCH
Q: Which British pop group appeared in the 1965 film 'Catch Us If You Can'? A: DAVE CLARK FIVE
Q: Which is the smallest county in the Republic of Ireland? A: LOUTH
Q: What in terms of area, is the smallest of the Canadian provinces? A: PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
Q: Who was the British Director of the film 'American Beauty'? A: SAM MENDES
Q: "Who first said or wrote""Science without religion is lame.Religion without science is blind""?" A: ALBERT EINSTEIN
Q: Which motor manufacturer produces the 'Croma' model? A: FIAT
Q: The 'Bolan' and the 'Penner' are rivers in which country? A: INDIA
Q: Which US pop group starred in the 1968 film 'Head'? A: THE MONKEES
Q: Maria Fitzherbert was mistress to which future British monarch? A: GEORGE IV
Q: How is the painting 'The Militia Company Of Captain Frans Banning Cocq' better known? A: 'THE NIGHT WATCH'
Q: What symbol appears on the flag of Barbados? A: TRIDENT
Q: Traditionally with what were the seams of wooden sailing ships caulked? A: OAKUM
Q: Name the most southerly county in the Republic of Ireland? A: CORK
Q: Which musical duo could have been billed as 'Hodges & Peacock'? A: 'CHAS & DAVE'
Q: Which film actress was the sister of Olivia de Havilland? A: JOAN FONTAINE
Q: What is the full name, including its sponsor, of the Millenium Wheel, standing on the banks of the River Thames? A: THE BRITISH AIRWAYS LONDON EYE
Q: The 1966 novel 'Wide Sargasso Sea' by Jean Rhys was written as a prequel to which 19th century novel? A: 'JANE EYRE'
Q: On the coast of which English county would you find the natural limestone arch known as 'Durdle Door'? A: DORSET
Q: What was the name of the Scottish physicist who wrote 'Treatise On Electricity And Magnetisim' in 1873? A: JAMES CLERK MAXWELL
Q: The 'Derwent Valley Mills' is a World Heritage Site, in which English county? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: The 1993 novel 'Mrs. de Winter' by Susan Hill was a sequel towhich classic 20th century novel? A: 'REBECCA'
Q: The last surviving example of which bird, once the most common bird in the world, died in Cincinnati Zoo in 1914? A: PASSENGER PIGEON
Q: Which American television drama series, that originally aired between 2001 - 2005, was set in 'Fisher & Sons Funeral Home'? A: 'SIX FEET UNDER'
Q: Which rich sauce made fromegg yolks, butter, shallots, herbs and spices, is named after a region of south-west France? A: BEARNAISE SAUCE
Q: What name is given to the wall of a Mosque that faces Mecca? A: QIBLA WALL
Q: Which large flightless bird, of the genus Pinguinis, was hunted to extinction in 1844? A: GREAT AUK
Q: Who was the leader of the 'Gunpowder Plot', whose conspirators included Guy Fawkes? A: ROBERT CATESBY
Q: Who plays the title role in the 2008 film 'Iron Man'? A: ROBERT DOWNEY Jr
Q: Which cartoonist who worked for the satirical magazine 'Punch', is best remembered for illustrating Lewis Carroll's 'Alice In Wonderland'? A: JOHN TENNIEL
Q: Since 2004, 'The Gay and Lesbian Kingdom of the Coral Sea Islands' has fought for independence from which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: Which actress is reprising her role as 'M' in the upcoming Bond film 'Quantum Of Solace'? A: JUDI DENCH
Q: What was the name of the castle lying on Tremadog Bay, within the Snowdonia National Park, that was built by Edward I in 1283? A: HARLECH CASTLE
Q: Between 1932 and 1990, the Russian city Nizhny Novgorod was named after which author? A: MAXIM GORKY
Q: What was the name of the Welsh village designed by Clough Williams-Ellis, that was used in the fiming of the television series 'The Prisoner'? A: PORTMEIRION
Q: In May 2008, which country voted in favour of abolishing its 240-year old monarchy? A: NEPAL
Q: Which American group has had hit albums in the 21st. century with 'Thirteen Tales From Urban Bohemia' and 'Werlcome To The Monkey House'? A: 'DANDY WARHOLS'
Q: 'Sam's Town' was the critically acclaimed album released by which American rock group in 2008? A: 'THE KILLERS'
Q: Which General and commander-in-chief led the 'New Model Army' at the Battle of Naseby in 1645? A: THOMAS FAIRFAX
Q: Because of Hull City's promotion, from next season (2009) which will be the largest city in England never to have had a top-flight football team? A: PLYMOUTH
Q: Which real-life confidence trickster and forger was playedby Leonardo di caprio in the 2002 film 'Catch Me If You Can'? A: FRANK ABAGNALE Jr
Q: According to the Book of Revelations, which city in modern-day Israel will be the site of 'Armageddon'? A: MEGIDDO
Q: Which branch of mathematics takes its name from the Latin for 'pebble'? A: CALCULUS
Q: According to the Gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke, who was compelled by the Romans to carry the cross of Jesus as he was taken to his crucifixion? A: SIMON OF CYRENE
Q: Discarding definite and indefinite articles, which of Shakespeare's plays comes first when listed alphabetically? A: 'ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL'
Q: What name is given to the south-east coast of India that stretches from Point Calamire in the south to the mouth of the Krishna River in the north? A: CORAMANDEL COAST
Q: For which county did the cricketer garfield Sobers score his famous six sixes in one over? A: NOTTINGHAMSHIRE
Q: In the sit-com 'Absolutely Fabulous', which 1960's singer is the only steady client of the PR firm owned by 'Edwina Monsoon'? A: LULU
Q: The Costa Smeralda (or Emerald Coast) is a feature of which Mediterranean island? A: SARDINIA
Q: For which county cricket team was Brian Lara playing when he scored his world record 501 not out? A: WARWICKSHIRE
Q: Discarding definite and indefinite articles, which of Shakespeare's plays comeslast when listed alphabetically? A: ' THE WINTER'S TALE'
Q: Runa Islam, Mark Leckey, Goshka Macuga and Cathy Wilkes are this year's nominees for which prize? A: TURNER PRIZE
Q: What was the name of the cross-dressing potter who won the Turner Prize in 2003? A: GRAYSON PERRY
Q: By what name was the Spanish nobleman Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar better known? A: 'EL CID'
Q: Which sportsman married Erin Nordegren in 2004? A: TIGER WOODS
Q: What was the name of the robot in the 1951 film, 'The Day The Earth Stood Still'? A: 'GORT'
Q: Who was Clive Ponting accused of leaking information to during his 1985 secrets trial? A: TAM DALYELL
Q: Who was John McCain's running partner in the 2008 American Presidential election? A: SARAH PALIN
Q: The song 'When You Wish Upon A Star' featured in which film? A: 'PINOCCHIO'
Q: In which year was the Euro introduced, the film 'Saving Private Ryan' appear, and President Clinton accused of perjury? A: 1998
Q: In one word, what is the meaning of 'Glasnost'? A: 'OPENNESS'
Q: What movement was founded by Charles Taze Russell in 1881? A: JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES
Q: Which German composer, born in 1776, wrote the opera 'Undine'. he shares his name with an American 'Oscar' winning actor born in 1937? A: HOFFMAN
Q: Who was the last boxer defeated by Muhammad Ali? A: LEON SPINKS
Q: For what are the 'Hugo' awards given? A: SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE
Q: Ray Barneveld in 2005, Jelle Klaasen in 2006, and Martin Adams in 2007 were all World Champions in which field? A: DARTS
Q: What is the capital of Lesotho? A: MASERU
Q: Which actor provided the television voice for 'Captain Scarlet'? A: FRANCIS MATTHEWS
Q: 'Economo's Disease', or 'Trypanosomiasis' is better known as what? A: 'SLEEPING SICKNESS'
Q: In which year did John Charles, Princess Juliana, Peter Ustinov and Yasser Arafat die? A: 2004
Q: Who is missing from this list - 'Dancer', 'Dasher', 'Donner' ,Blitzen', 'Vixen', 'Prancer' and 'Comet'? A: 'CUPID'
Q: Which sea area is south-east of Faroes, west of Viking, north-east of Hebrides and north-west of Forties? A: FAIR ISLE
Q: What was Britney Spears' first number one, in 1999? A: 'BABY ONE MORE TIME'
Q: Who was kidnapped and assassinated by the left-wing movement 'Brigate Rosse' in 1978? A: ALDO MORO
Q: The song 'As Long As He Needs Me' comes from which show and film? A: 'OLIVER'
Q: Who wrote the play 'Blood Brothers'? A: WILLY RUSSELL
Q: US Vice-President Joe Biden represents which state? A: DELAWARE
Q: Which painter married Hortense Fiquet and used her as the subject of many of his paintings? A: PAUL CEZANNE
Q: Which French city held up the advance of British troops for over a month shortly after D-Day? A: CAEN
Q: Which motorway runs from Ross to Tewksbury? A: M50
Q: Who commanded the Royal Navy taskforce which destroyed much of the Italian fleet off Cape Matapan in 1941? A: CUNNINGHAM
Q: Which US President was imprisoned by the British and killed Charles Dickinson in a duel with pistols? A: ANDREW JACKSON
Q: 'Edward Lewis' and 'Vivian Ward' were the principal characters in which popular 1990 film? A: 'PRETTY WOMAN'
Q: Which Shakespeare play features 'Dogberry', a Constable? A: 'MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING'
Q: Which actor is the husband of Billie Piper? A: LAURENCE FOX
Q: What type of bridge is the Forth Railway Bridge? A: CANTILEVER
Q: Albert II became King of the Belgians in 1993 on the death of his brother. What was his brother's name? A: BAUDOUIN
Q: Which town is the administrative headquarters of Derbyshire? A: MATLOCK
Q: The Isle of Man Steam Railway runs from Douglas to which small seaside town? A: PORT ERIN
Q: Which colour of jersey is worn by the leader in the points classification in the Tour de France? A: GREEN
Q: Who plays '2' in the 2010 ITV series 'The Prisoner'? A: SIR IAN McKELLEN
Q: Which Emeritus Professor at Edinburgh University has written several series of novels including '2½ Pillars Of Wisdom' and '44 Scotland Street'? A: ALEXANDER McCALL SMITH
Q: Which 'rapper' has released albums entitled 'Mr. Smith' and 'Todd Smith'? A: LL COOL J
Q: Crowned o June 1st 1533, Anne Boleyn was the mother of which monarch? A: ELIZABETH I
Q: Nicknamed 'The Staggies', which First Division team were runners-up in the 2010 Scottish FA Cup Final? A: ROSS COUNTY
Q: In which 1970's police drama did Karl Malden play 'Detective Lieutenant Mike Stone'? A: 'THE STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO'
Q: In the 'Millennium Trilogy' by Stieg Larsson, all the novels begin with which two words? A: 'THE GIRL..'
Q: In which West Central African country was Ali Bongo Ondimba elected President in 2009? A: GABON
Q: 'Equivalent VIII' by Carl Andre is in Tate Modern in London. It comprises 120 of which item? A: (Fire) BRICKS
Q: Give either of the middle names of David Cameron? A: WILLIAM DONALD
Q: What name was given to the 57 constituencies with very small electorates, such as Old Sarum with two MP's for 11 electors, which were abolished by the 1832 Reform Act? A: 'ROTTEN BOROUGHS'
Q: On which major river does Bamako, the capital of Mali stand? A: NIGER
Q: With eight goals which Barcelona player was the leading scorer in the 2009-10 Champions League? A: LIONEL MESSI
Q: Which character, who first appeared in 'Detective Comics' in 1948, has been played on TV in the 1960's by Frank Gorshin and John Astin and on film in 1995 by Jim Carrey? A: 'THE RIDDLER'
Q: Which novelist whose original first names were Margaret Ann before she changed them, won the 2005 Orange Prize for the book 'We Need To Talk About Kevin'? A: LIONEL SHRIVER
Q: Which band, formed in 2001, includes Ana Matronic, Babydaddy and Jake Shears? A: 'SCISSOR SISTERS'
Q: Which member of the Royal Family is known as 'Brian' in 'Private Eye'? A: PRINCE OF WALES
Q: Elizabeth of York, the mother of Henry VIII, was the daughter of which king? A: EDWARD IV
Q: Which sport, played with sticks and a ball, whose rules are governed by the Camanachd Association, is mainly played in the highlands of Scotland? A: SHINTY
Q: On which material is the Hereford Mappa Mundi drawn? A: VELLUM
Q: Which Russian Tsar, known as 'The Liberator', was assassinated in March 1881? A: ALEXANDER II
Q: In which US state is the Durango and Silverton Narrow Gauge Railway? A: COLORADO
Q: What colour of cap is worn by a Water Polo goalkeeper? A: RED
Q: Which country is the setting for Alexander McCall Smith's series of novels 'The No 1. Ladies' Detective Agency'? A: BOTSWANA
Q: Which king gave Royal Assent to the Parliament Act which asserted the supremacy of the House of Commons, by reducing the delaying powers of the House of Lords to two years, later amended to one year in 1949? A: GEORGE V
Q: On which major river does Vientiane, the capital of Laos stand? A: MEKONG
Q: With 302, cricketer Mahela Jayawardene was the leading run scorer in the 2010 ICC World Twenty20. What is his nationality? A: SRI LANKAN
Q: The Clore Gallery at Tate Britain in London contains work by which British artist (1775-1821)? A: J.M.W. TURNER
Q: Give either of the middle names of George Osbourne? A: GIDEON OLIVER
Q: In 1843 stamps were issued in two more countries. Those from Switzerland were issued by the cities of Zurich and Geneva. Which country was the second to issue stamps, known as 'Bull's Eyes', which were valid throughout the entire country? A: BRAZIL
Q: In which decade was the Bernardo Bertolucci directed film 'Last Tango In Paris' released? A: 1970's
Q: Which Shakespeare play features 'Feste', a jester? A: 'TWELFTH NIGHT'
Q: What was the most used first name of the composer Mussorgsky (1839-1881). A: MODEST
Q: Which singer and actress, married to Lee Mead, gave birth to baby Betsy on May 1st.? A: DENISE VAN OUTEN
Q: What type of bridge is the Golden Gate Bridge? A: SUSPENSION
Q: Albert II, the Sovereign Prince of Monaco is a member of which Royal House? A: GRIMALDI
Q: Which town is the administrative headquarters of Shropshire? A: SHREWSBURY
Q: In which city were the 2002 Winter Olympic Games held? A: SALT LAKE CITY
Q: Name the film starring Gwynneth Paltrow and Joseph Fiennes about an author who gets writers' block whilst writing 'Romeo and Ethel the Pirate's Daughter'? A: 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE'
Q: Give the middle name of former US Vice-President Hubert H. Humphries? A: HORATIO
Q: Who launched the 'Today' newspaper in 1986? A: EDDY SHAH
Q: Who is the wife of singer Jamie Cullum? A: SOPHIE DAHL
Q: Which country is the home of football club Shakhtar Donetsk? A: UKRAINE
Q: Who is the subject of the 1961 biography 'The Agony And The Ecstasy' by Irving Stone? A: MICHELANGELO (Buonarroti)
Q: How were musical duo Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield known? A: 'THE RIGHTEOUS BROTHERS'
Q: Who was Master of the King's Music from 1924 until 1934? A: EDWARD ELGAR
Q: Who played 'Sabrina Duncan' in the 1970's TV series 'Charlie's Angels'? A: KATE JACKSON
Q: Which Hungarian born Modernist was the architect of 2, Willow Road in Hampstead? A: ERNO GOLDFINGER
Q: In which subject did Margaret Thatcher obtain a B.Sc. at Oxford? A: CHEMISTRY
Q: Which Rugby League club has been coached by Brian McClennan and Brian McDermott? A: LEEDS (Rhinos)
Q: The Hoover Dam is on the border of Arizona and which other state? A: NEVADA
Q: Who did Henry Cooper fight in his last bout? A: JOE BUGNER
Q: """It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of good fortune, must be in want of a wife"", is the first line of which Jane Austen novel?" A: 'PRIDE AND PREJUDICE'
Q: Which part does Matt Damon play in the film 'Invictus'? A: FRANCOIS PIENAAR
Q: Which 'Beatle' had a hit single with 'Photograph'? A: RINGO STARR
Q: Which Middle East airline has an in-flight magazine called 'Oryx', the antelope which is on its logo? A: QATAR AIRWAYS
Q: Which Roman Emperor came between Claudius and Galba? A: NERO
Q: Who is the husband of Dutch model Lara Stone? A: DAVID WALLIAMS
Q: Which Spanish city is the home of football club 'Hercules'? A: ALICANTE
Q: Which newspaper was re-branded as 'The Sun' in 1964? A: DAILY HERALD
Q: On which island is the resort of Ayia Napa? A: CYPRUS
Q: Who partnered Bill Medley on the hit single '(I've Had) The Time Of My Life'? A: JENNIFER WARNES
Q: What is the name of the Neurosurgeon played by James Nesbitt in a recent ITV drama series? A: 'MONROE'
Q: Which Harvard Professor features in the novels 'Angels And Demons' and 'The Da Vinci Code' by Dan Brown? A: 'ROBERT LANGDON'
Q: Which member of the Royal Family married Katharine Worsley in 1961? A: DUKE OF KENT
Q: In which city is the 'Sixth Floor Museum' at Dealey Plaza? A: DALLAS
Q: Who commanded the 'USS Bonhomme Richard' which sank after the 'Battle of Flamborough Head' in 1779? A: JOHN PAUL JONES
Q: What is 'Emma's' surname in the Jane Austen novel 'Emma'? A: 'WOODHOUSE'
Q: Which cartoonist and illustrator, best known for his drawings of eccentric machines, was born on May 31st. 1872? A: HEATH ROBINSON
Q: Who designed 'The Willow Tearooms' at 217 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow? A: CHARLES RENNIE MACKINTOSH
Q: What was the title of the 1991 Channel 4 drama in which Robert Lindsay played 'Michael Murray' the militant Labour leader of a city council? A: 'G.B.H.'
Q: Which musician, together with George Harrison, organised 'The Concert For Bangladesh' at Madison Square Garden in 1971? A: RAVI SHANKAR
Q: Which school was founded in 1382 by William of Wykeham? A: WINCHESTER
Q: The full title of which play by George Bernard Shaw is completed by 'A Romance In Five Acts'? A: 'PYGMALION'
Q: 'ETIHAD Airways' is based in which of the United Arab Emirates? A: ABU DHABI
Q: Who was Poet Laureate from 1968 to 1972? A: CECIL DAY-LEWIS
Q: What was the surname of the character known as 'Face' or 'Faceman' in the 1980's TV show 'The A-Team'? A: 'PECK'
Q: Sarawak is a state in which country? A: MALAYSIA
Q: Who founded 'Auto Trader' in 1975? A: JOHN MADEJSKI
Q: In which sport did Dave Prowse ('Darth Vader') represent England at the 1962 Commonwealth Games? A: WEIGHTLIFTING
Q: What is the title of the Head of State of Oman? A: SULTAN
Q: For which British national newspaper did the cartoonist Giles produce his most famous work? A: DAILY EXPRESS
Q: Which French author wrote 'J'accuse', an open letter to the French government regarding the 'Dreyfuss Affair'? A: EMILE ZOLA
Q: Which SAS soldier wrote the book 'Bravo Two Zero', an account of a failed mission during the first Gulf War? A: ANDY McNAB
Q: The 'Ridolfi Plot' was a Roman Catholic plot to kill which English monarch? A: ELIZABETH I
Q: Which former British landmark is now the most famous tourist attraction in Lake Havasu City, Arizona? A: LONDON BRIDGE
Q: Lying on the Sunzha River, what is the capital of the Chechen Republic? A: GROZNY
Q: Pal Schmitt resigned as President of Hungary in 2012 as a result of allegations that he plagiarised his doctoral thesis. He won Olympic gold medals in 1968 and 1972, in which sport? A: FENCING
Q: Designed by Tim Tolkein, the great nephew of the author of 'The Lord Of The Rings', in which English city could you find the famous 'Sentinel' statue? A: BIRMINGHAM
Q: Yakutsk is the capital of which federal subject of Russia, that at 3,103,200 km2 (almost as big as India) is the largest subnational governing body by area? A: SAKHA REPUBLIC
Q: The majority of 'The Only Way Is Essex' is set and filmed in which Essex town? A: BRENTWOOD
Q: An American mathematician, who engaged in a mail bombing campaign that spanned nearly 20 years, killing three people and injuring 23 others, by what name is Ted Kaczynski popularly known? A: 'THE UNABOMBER'
Q: Which football club pipped Paris Saint Germain to win the French League 1 title in 2012? A: MONTPELLIER
Q: Developed sometime before 1915 by a bartender named Ngiam Tong Boon, which cocktail contains Gin, Cherry Heering, Benedictine,and fresh Sarawak Pineapple juice? A: 'SINGAPORE SLING'
Q: Which single-word title is shared by songs in the musicals 'The Sound Of Music' and 'West Side Story'? A: 'MARIA'
Q: The son-in-law of a British Prime Minister and the father of a former Minister of Defence, which Conservative politician served as the last Governor of Southern Rhodesia? A: CHRISTOPHER SOAMES
Q: Which team finished eight points clear of Bayern Munich to win the Bundesliga title in 2012? A: BORUSSIA DORTMUND
Q: Found in birds, reptiles and some fish and insects, what name is given to the specialised stomach with a thick, muscular wall used for grinding up food? A: GIZZARD
Q: Voted the greatest female athlete of the 20th century by 'Sports Illustrated for Women', which American athlete won gold medals in both the Heptathlon and Long Jump in 1988? A: JACKIE JOYNER-KERSEE
Q: What has been made by the Chicago manufacturer R.S. Owens & Company since 1983? A: 'OSCAR' STATUETTES
Q: The International Airport at the Cretan capital of Heraklion is named after which writer? A: NIKOS KAZANTZAKIS
Q: Which 18th century Staffordshire-born potter, and grandfather of Charles Darwin, first developed Jasperware and Basaltware? A: JOSIAH WEDGEWOOD
Q: Which mathematician, whose ideas were important to the development of modern computer circuits, wrote the 1854 work 'Laws Of Thought'? A: GEORGE BOOLE
Q: Which was the only one of the four 'Grand Slam' Tennis titles that Bjorn Borg did not win? A: U.S. OPEN
Q: Which Merchant Ivory film, based on an acclaimed novel by Kazuo Ishiguro, tells the story of 'Mr. Stevens', the butler at 'Darlington Hall'? A: 'THE REMAINS OF THE DAY'
Q: Also going by the name of Talmadge Hayer and his chosen Islamic name, Mujahid Abdul Halim, Thomas Hagan is best known as one of the assassins of which famous person? A: MALCOLM X
Q: What name is given to the main area of a church, extending from the main entrance to the chancel, usually flanked by lower aisles? A: NAVE
Q: He was England's first typographer and the first person to popularise the products of the printing press in England. Who was the Alsace-born printer brought to England by William Caxton in order to improve the quality of Caxton's products? A: WYNKYN de WORDE
Q: The flag of Cornwall is named after which Cornish abbot and saint traditionally held to be patron saint of the county, as well as tin miners? A: SAINT PIRAN
Q: What is the name of the upland tract in north-western Leicestershire, bounded by Leicester, Loughborough and Coalville, that is well known for its pre-Cambrians rocks and fossil beds? A: CHARNWOOD FOREST
Q: "What is the historically opposite pseudonymous name used by the libertarian blogger Paul Staines who blogs about ""parliamentary plots, rumours and conspiracies""?" A: 'GUIDO FAWKES'
Q: When a sitting MP wishes to resign his seat, he can apply for the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds or of which manor currently part of the Barrowcliff area of Scarborough? A: MANOR OF NORTHSTEAD
Q: What was the name of the Greenpeace trawler that was sunk off the coast of New Zealand by French secret intelligence officers in July 1985? A: RAINBOW WARRIOR
Q: Long the richest country in the Muslim world, which country has, according to the International Monetary Fund, replaced Luxembourg as the world's richest country per head of population? A: QATAR
Q: The gardens at Sissinghurst Castle, Kent were created in the 1930's by which poet and gardening writer on the fringes of the 'Bloomsbury Group'? A: VITA SACKVILLE-WEST
Q: What is the name of the Japanese martial art of fencing that uses bamboo swords called Shinai? A: KENDO
Q: What name is given to the outermost part of the Sun's atmosphere, visible to the naked eye during a solar eclipse? A: CORONA
Q: Which English cartographer, printer and publisher has recently returned to prominence as a result of his 'Tourist Handbook' being used by Michael Portillo for the t.v. series 'Great British Railway Journeys'? A: GEORGE BRADSHAW
Q: Now owned by Proton, which British car manufacturing company was formed by engineer Colin Chapman in 1952 and went on to produce models such as the 'Elise' and 'Exige'? A: LOTUS
Q: Describing events in its capital of 'Laurania', as unrest against the dictatorial government turns to revolution, 'Savrola' published in 1899, was the only novel written by which Nobel Prize winner? A: WINSTON S. CHURCHILL
Q: Which 1971 film starring Vincent Price tells the story of a disfigured musical genius seeking to avenge the death of his wife? A: 'THE ABOMINABLE Dr. PHIBES'
Q: What name is given to a substance that breaks up into free ions when dissolved, to produce an electrical conductor? A: ELECTROLYTE
Q: Which battle of August 4798 was fought in the spacious Abu Qir Bay? A: BATTLE OF THE NILE
Q: In the poem by Edgar Allen Poe, which word is repeatedly spoken by 'The Raven'? A: """NEVERMORE"""
Q: In which English county is the small village of Burnham Thorpe, famous for being the birthplace of Admiral Nelson? A: NORFOLK
Q: Which former New Zealand Rugby Union international, who made his debut in 1957, was nicknamed 'Pine Tree'? A: COLIN MEADS
Q: Which British comedy actor, whose father took part in the 1948 Olympic Games, took part in the 1980 Oxford/Cambridge Boat Race? A: Hugh Laurie
Q: Which Palestinian organisation murdered 11 Israelis at the 1972 Olympics? A: Black September
Q: What is the tallest building in Europe? A: The Shard, London
Q: What is the name of the thick soup popular in the southern states of the USA? One of the main ingredients is Okra which gives the dish its smooth silky texture. A: Gumbo
Q: Who was awarded the Nobel Peace Price in 1948 for his role in establishing the United Nations? A: Cordell Hull
Q: Who is the famous mother of TV presenter Claudia Winkelman? A: Eve Pollard
Q: Which British monarch put the “Regis” into Bognor? A: George V
Q: What is the common name for the bird Alauda arvensis, which mounts the air almost vertically? A: Skylark
Q: Charlottetown is the capital of which Canadian province? A: Prince Edward Island
Q: “The evil that men do lives after them, the good is oft interred with their bones” is a quote from which Shakespeare play? A: Julius Caesar
Q: In “Absolutely Fabulous”, who played Bubbles? A: Jane Horrocks
Q: “By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes” is a quote from which Shakespeare play? A: Macbeth
Q: The Russian city of St Petersburg stands on the River Neva, which runs into which gulf? A: Gulf of Finland
Q: What was the first name of politician Enoch Powell? A: John
Q: In which US State could you visit the Carlsbad Caverns National Park? A: New Mexico
Q: Luqa airport serves which holiday destination? A: Malta
Q: In WWII what was the British “Operation Chastise”, which took place in May 1943? A: Dambusters Raid
Q: Which now common household item was invented and patented by Norwegian chemist Erik Rotheim in 1927, and developed by Americans Lyle Goodhue and William Sullivan as an aid in the fight against malaria? A: Aerosol Spray
Q: Which British monarch made Tunbridge Wells Royal? A: Edward VII
Q: Name the Frenchman who was one of the chief architects of the Common Market and is considered by many as the father of the Common Market. A: Jean Monnet
Q: Which character has been portrayed on film by Andre Morell, Robert Duvall and Ben Kingsley? A: Dr John Watson
Q: Which Britis explorer travelled disguised as a Muslim to Mecca and Medina in 1853? A: Sir Richard Burton
Q: Where in the body are the Kupffer Cells found? A: Liver
Q: In WWII, what was the allied Operation Husky, which began on 9th July 1943? A: Invasion of Sicily
Q: Which French romantic artist painted “The Tiger Hunt” and “The Massacre at Chios” A: Ferdinand Delacroix
Q: If you landed at Reina Sofia Airport, which island would you be on? A: Tenerife
Q: In the fashion label FCUK, for what does the FC stand? A: French Connection
Q: Astrakhan stands on the River Volga, leading to the shores of which sea? A: Caspian
Q: In which country did the 1798 Battle of Vinegar Hill take place? A: Ireland
Q: In which state is Lewiston, the furthest inland seaport on the west coast of America? A: Idaho
Q: Which Venetian artist, real name Jacopo Robusti, painted “The Origin of the Milky Way”? A: Tintoretto
Q: Frederictown is the capital of which Canadian province? A: New Brunswick
Q: In “Keeping Up Appearances”, who played Onslow? A: Geoffrey Hughes
Q: Which breed of dog’s name translates as “badger hound”? A: Dachshund
Q: Which sea bird found around the shores of Britain is a larger relative of the Shag? A: Cormorant
Q: Which exponent of Brit Art created works involving a bed, a tent and a beach hut? A: Tracey Emin
Q: "Which American President used the slogan: ""It's morning again in America"" for his presidential campaign?" A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Who received the best actor Oscar for the 1934 film ' It Happened One Night'? A: CLARK GABLE
Q: Which British dependent territory has a capital called The Valley? A: ANGUILLA
Q: What was Elvis's last No 1 record in the UK in his lifetime? A: THE WONDER OF YOU
Q: Murray Gell-Mann developed a theory in 1964 that the smallest particle in the universe was called what? A: QUARK
Q: "From which 1950 film musical does the song ""I Got the Sun in the Morning"" come?" A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: For which film did Gary Cooper win Best Actor Oscar in 1941? A: SERGEANT YORK
Q: Which national radio station broadcasts on either 693 or 909 kHz Medium Wave? A: RADIO 5 LIVE
Q: How was Amandine Aurore Lucie Dupin better known? A: GEORGE SAND
Q: Which French playwright's real name was Jean Baptiste Poquelin? A: MOLIERE
Q: "Which group has released the albums ""Fear Of Music"", 'True Stories"" and ""Remain In Light""?" A: TALKING HEADS
Q: Which religion celebrates the festival of Dewali? A: HINDU
Q: Which record went to No 1 after his (Elvis's) death in 1977? A: WAY DOWN
Q: Which island's capital is Flying Fish Cove? A: CHRISTMAS ISLAND
Q: "In ""Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats"", which is the mystery cat and Napoleon of Crime?" A: MACAVITY
Q: Mikhail Fokine was the chief choreographer to which ballet company from 1909 -1914? A: BALLET RUSSES
Q: Which religion celebrates the festival of 'Baisakhi' or 'Vaisakhi'? A: SIKH
Q: Who had Hampton Court Palace built? A: CARDINAL WOLSEY
Q: What is the name of the race of black Jews who formerly inhabited Ethiopia? A: FALASHAS
Q: "Which singer has released the albums ""Nebraska"", 'Tunnel Of Love"" and ""Lucky Town""?" A: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN
Q: Henry Cooper controversially lost his British Tile in 1971 to which Boxer? A: JOE BUGNER
Q: Which motorway runs from Glasgow to Carlisle? A: M74
Q: How many points are required to win a standard game of cribbage? A: 121
Q: In Arthurian legend who accepted the challenge of the Green Knight? A: SIR GAWAIN
Q: Who rode the winner of the 1956 Grand National, when Devon Loch slipped on the run in? A: DAVE DICK
Q: "Who wrote the play, ""The Long and the Short and the Tall""?" A: Willis HALL
Q: In which Grimm's fairy tale does a prince climb up a maiden's hair? A: RAPUNZEL
Q: Which chess piece does Alice start off as in 'Through the Looking Glass'? A: WHITE PAWN
Q: In which city would you find 'Commissioner Gordon' and 'Chief O'Hara'? A: 'GOTHAM CITY'
Q: Name the actress, she died in August 2002, who played the part of 'Madame Edith Artois' in the TV series 'Allo, Allo'? A: CARMEN SILVERA
Q: The 1920's art known as 'The Group of Seven' was formed in which country? A: CANADA
Q: Which archipelago, off the coast of Newfoundland, is the last remaining French possession in North America? A: ST. PIERRE & MIQUELON
Q: What was the first name of the daughter of Pakistani politician Zulfiqir Ali Bhutto? A: BENAZIR
Q: Which car manufacturer makes the 'Zetec' model? A: FORD
Q: Which is the most common element in the Earth's crust after oxygen? A: SILICON
Q: Who succeeded Kruschev as Soviet Prime Minister in 1964? A: KOSYGIN
Q: In which county are 'Leeds castle' and the 'Isle of Sheppey'? A: KENT
Q: A 'theocracy' is government by whom? A: THE CHURCH
Q: Charlotte Dod was a fine skater, an international hockey player, the best woman archer in England, and a champion golfer; all after she gave up her first game for lack of effective opposition. What game was that? A: TENNIS
Q: In the sci-fi book and film, by what other name was the planet 'Arakis' known? A: 'DUNE'
Q: In the sci-fi books, what was 'Dune's' principle export, making it so important to the 'Empire'? A: 'SPICE'
Q: Peter Blake, Richard Hamilton, Claes Oldenburg, and Jim Dine were amongst the leading exponents of which 1950's / 60's style of painting? A: POP ART
Q: Footballer George Best, made his name with Manchester United, but with which club did he finish his league career? A: BOURNEMOUTH
Q: Parr, Smolt Sprog, Skegger, Samlet, Mort, Grilse and Fingerling are all names used for the young of which fish? A: SALMON
Q: Which great composer, composed so many songs between 1815 and 1828 that the Oxford Dictionary of Music doesn't attempt to list them all? A: SCHUBERT
Q: The islands of 'Ascencion' and 'Tristan da Cunha' in the South West Atlantic, are dependencies of which other British island colony? A: ST. HELENA
Q: Fulgencio was the first name of which dictator, overthrown in 1959? A: BATISTA
Q: The largest man-made excavation in the world is a mine for which element? A: COPPER
Q: Joe Strummer and Mick Jones were singers and guitarists with which band? A: CLASH
Q: Which car manufacturer makes the 'Corsa' model? A: VAUXHALL
Q: A 'plutocracy' is government by whom? A: THE WEALTHY
Q: Who won his ninth 'Skol World Darts' title in January 2001? A: PHIL TAYLOR
Q: "Which commentator said, ""The bowler's Holding, the batsman's Willey""?" A: BRIAN JOHNSTON
Q: Which famous teacher taught at 'The Marcie Blain School For Girls'? A: 'MISS JEAN BRODIE'
Q: What is the female equivalent of a Bar Mitzvah? A: BAT MITZVAH
Q: Yarmulke is the Yiddish word for a skullcap, what is the Hebrew equivalent? A: KIPPAH
Q: What was the first Steven Spielberg movie to be shot completely (exteriors as well as interiors) on sound stages? A: 'HOOK'
Q: Who preceded Ariel Sharon as Israel's Prime Minister? A: EHUD BARAK
Q: The mouth of the River Rhine is in which country? A: THE NETHERLANDS
Q: Who at the age of 69 was the oldest US President to take the oath of office? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: What was silent film actor 'Fatty' Arbuckle's christian name? A: ROSCOE
Q: Which Mediterranean island's two main beaches are called Ses Salines and Es Cavellet? A: IBIZA
Q: Which two words were used to promote Greta Garbo's 1930 film, 'Anna Christie'? A: """GARBO TALKS"""
Q: Which English engineer built the Menai tubular girder bridge in the UK, opened in 1850, and the Victoria Bridge over the Hudson in Canada in 1859? A: ROBERT STEPHENSON
Q: Jenny Pitman won the Grand National for the first time, with which horse? A: CORBIERE
Q: Which aircraft manufacturer built the World war II fighter the 'Mustang'? A: NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION
Q: Which TV 'Western' hero was created by the legendary writer O Henry? A: THE 'CISCO KID'
Q: Who apart from 'Doc' lasted through all the 'Gunsmoke' series? A: 'MATT DILLON'
Q: Which aircraft company manufactures the 'F-14 Tomcat'? A: GRUMMAN
Q: How was boxer Walker Smith better known? A: SUGAR RAY ROBINSON
Q: What is the currency of Malaysia? A: RINGGIT
Q: 'Media Magnate' Silvio Berlusconi became Italy's Prime Minister, he also owned which Italian football club? A: A.C. MILAN
Q: Which French cyclist's nickname means 'The Badger'? A: BERNARD HINAULT
Q: What is the currency of Papua New Guinea? A: KINA
Q: Who was the first 'baby boomer' President to sit in the White House? A: WILLIAM JEFFERSON CLINTON
Q: On which course did golfer Mark Calcavecchia win his only (British) Open? A: TROON
Q: Who was murdered along with O.J. Simpson's wife Nicole? A: RONALD GOLDMAN
Q: What was the name of the killer who carried out the horrific massacre at Hungerford? A: MICHAEL RYAN
Q: In 'Peter Pan', what are 'Hook's' last words? A: """FLOREAT ETONA"""
Q: What type of food is 'Gravadlax'? A: FISH
Q: In which county is the Sizewell nuclear power station? A: SUFFOLK
Q: Which doll's name gave 'Aqua' a number one hit? A: 'BARBIE'
Q: In which London Park is 'Rotten Row'? A: HYDE PARK
Q: In March of what year was Robert Mugabe elected Prime Minister of Zimbabwe? A: 1980
Q: In November of what year did Spanish dictator General Franco die? A: 1975
Q: Which motor manufacturer builds the 'Movano' range of vans and mini-buses? A: VAUXHALL
Q: Which former Egyptian army camp was besieged by the Mahdists forten months, then occupied for 13 years before recapture by the British in 1898? A: KHARTOUM
Q: Who became thefirst West German Chancellor to visit Israel? A: WILLY BRANDT
Q: Who starred opposite Walter Pidgeon in the 1942 film 'Mrs. Miniver'? A: GREER GARSON
Q: On the 22nd. June 1979 former Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe was found not guilty of plotting to kill which male model? A: NORMAN SCOTT
Q: Who played 'Fletcher Christian' to Charles Laughton's 'Captain Bligh' in the film 'Mutiny On The Bounty'? A: CLARKE GABLE
Q: Which serial killer hanged himself in his cell on New Years day 1995, before being tried for crimes he committed? A: FRED WEST
Q: Much seen after the 'Bali Bombing', what is the national flower of Australia? A: GOLDEN WATTLE
Q: Which British pop group had a hit with 'Brontosaurus'? A: 'THE MOVE'
Q: Which river separates Zimbabwe from South Africa? A: THE LIMPOPO
Q: With which boy-band did Mariah Carey cover the Phil Collins hit 'Against All Odds'? A: 'WESTLIFE'
Q: Zanzibar lies off the coast of which African country? A: TANZANIA
Q: In Swift's 'Gullivers Travels', what is 'Gulliver's profession? A: A SURGEON
Q: What was the title of Elvis Presley's first feature film? A: 'LOVE ME TENDER'
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first UK hit single? A: 'HEARTBREAK HOTEL'
Q: The 1962 World Cup competition, saw a clash now called 'The Battle of Santiago' between Chile and which European nation? A: ITALY
Q: Which British sports carcompany was founded by Jem Marsh and Frank Costin? A: MARCOS
Q: From which band did The Beatles recruit Ringo Starr? A: RORY STORM & THE HURRICANES
Q: At what address did murderer John Christie live? A: 10 RILLINGTON PLACE
Q: On the 21st. July 1961, which American astronaut had in the spacecraft Liberty Bell 7 a flight lasting 15 mins- 37secs; his spacecraft sinking on 'splashdown'? A: GUS GRISSOM
Q: In which play by Shakespeare does the character 'Sir Andrew Aguecheek' appear? A: 'TWELFTH NIGHT'
Q: Which former Music Hall comedian played 'Harry Payne' in television's 'Coronation Street' in 1978? A: MAX WALL
Q: Who succeeded Betty Boothroyd as Speaker of the House of Commons, in 2000? A: MICHAEL MARTIN
Q: In which novel by Thackeray does the character 'Blanche Amory' appear? A: 'THE HISTORY OF PENDENNIS'
Q: In the Bible, who was the wife of Uriah? A: BATHSHEBA
Q: The 'Saro Lerwick' and the 'Short Sunderland' were what type of aircraft? A: FLYING BOATS
Q: Who was the winner of the 1999 Australian Formula One Grand Prix? A: EDDIE IRVINE
Q: Which artist painted a portrait of Sir Winston Churchill that was later destroyed by Lady Churchill? A: GRAHAM SUTHERLAND
Q: Who succeeded Richard Nixon in 1974 as US President? A: GERALD FORD
Q: Which river was known to the Romans as 'Rhenus'? A: RIVER RHINE
Q: The Council For Mutual Economic Assistance is known by what acronym? A: COMECON
Q: Which principality joined the United Nations in 1993? A: MONACO
Q: Who became the first President of Tanzania in 1964? A: JULIUS NYERERE
Q: What is the capital of Lichtenstein? A: VADUZ
Q: Cricket Test Matches are played at 'Sahara Park', Newlands, in which city is it? A: CAPE TOWN, South Africa
Q: "Which company has used the advertising slogan ""Where Do You Want To Go Today?""?" A: MICROSOFT
Q: Which car manufacturer has produced models called 'Bravo' and 'Tempra'? A: FIAT
Q: In which European city would you be if you landed at 'Ruzyne Airport'? A: PRAGUE
Q: Born in 1791, which scientist was assistant to Sir Humphrey Davy at the Royal Institute? A: MICHAEL FARADAY
Q: Two 'Shipping Forecast Areas' touch the coast of Denmark. 'German Bight' is one, name the other? A: 'FISHER'
Q: Which British city has suburbs called Normanton, California, and New Zealand? A: DERBY
Q: Which singer postponed his civil ceremony with long-time partner Kenny Goss in 2006? A: GEORGE MICHAEL
Q: In which city is the 'Basin Reserve' Cricket Test Match venue? A: WELLINGTON, New Zealand
Q: Which car manufacturer hasproduced models called 'Almiera' and 'Primera'? A: NISSAN
Q: The songs 'If I Loved You' and 'When The Children Are Asleep'are from which 1956 stage musical? A: 'CAROUSEL'
Q: From which island does 'Marsala Wine' come? A: SICILY
Q: Which artist who lived from 1445 to 1510 painted 'The Birth Of Venus'? A: SANDRO BOTTICELLI
Q: The songs 'Sing, Sing, Sing' and 'Sabine Women' are from which 1954 stage musical? A: 'SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS'
Q: In which building did Platodo most of his teaching? A: THE ACADEMY
Q: 'Staying Alive' was a sequel to which other film? A: 'SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER'
Q: What name, from the Latin for tortoise, was given to the Roman battle formation, where shields were used to form a protective shell above attacking soldiers? A: TESTUDO
Q: What was the name of Captain Scott's ship on his last Antarctic voyage? A: TERRA NOVA
Q: Which Biblical character is the son of Isaac and the twin brother of Jacob? A: ESAU
Q: We call this item a 'Mobile Phone', what do Americans call it? A: CELL PHONE
Q: Which artist who lived from 1450 to 1516, painted 'The Garden Of Earthly Delights'? A: HIERONYMOUS BOSCH
Q: Who wrote 'The Good Soldier' in 1915? A: FORD MADOX FORD
Q: To which family of birds does the 'Bittern' belong? A: HERON
Q: Which comedian married his partner Kevin McGee in a civil ceremony in 2006? A: MATT LUCAS
Q: Which British city has thoroughfares called Saltmarket, Candleriggs, and Trongate? A: GLASGOW
Q: In which European countryis 'Bourgas International Airport'? A: BULGARIA
Q: In the Bible, what was the name of Abraham's wife? A: SARAH
Q: Excluding Albion Rovers, name the Scottish Football League club that has 'Albion' as part of its name? A: STIRLING ALBION
Q: Who wrote 'The Soldier's Art' in 1966? A: ANTHONY POWELL
Q: In World War I, what did the Allies call the defence linethat was known as the 'Siegfried Line' to the Germans? A: 'HINDENBURG LINE'
Q: Baku is the capital of which country? A: AZERBIJAN
Q: What was the name of Sir Ernest Henry Shackleton's ship? A: ENDURANCE
Q: After which capital city is the metallic element Hafniumnamed? A: COPENHAGEN (Hafnia)
Q: Which city on the River Tagus, once the capital of Castile and later Spain, is the capital of the Castile-La-Mancha region? A: TOLEDO
Q: Who stood as American Presidential candidate for the Bull Moose Party in 1912, effectively splitting the Republican vote and ensuring Wilson's election? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: Richard, Duke of York and Cecily Neville were the parents of which King of England? A: EDWARD IV
Q: For which film in 1981 did British actor John Gielgud win the 'Oscar' for Best Supporting Actor? A: 'ARTHUR'
Q: Which French philosospher is credited with creating analytical geometry? A: DESCARTES
Q: Which element, atomic number 5, has the symbol B? A: BORON
Q: Which British man won a gold medal in the 100m Breaststroke atthe 1980 Olympics in Moscow? A: DUNCAN GOODHEW
Q: "When Japan bombed Pearl Harbour their attack codename was ""Tora, Tora, Tora"", what does 'Tora' mean in English?" A: 'TIGER'
Q: Which year of the 19th.century was called 'The Year of Revolutions'? A: 1848
Q: Which Italian city is the regional capital of Lombardy? A: MILAN
Q: The painting 'And When Did You Last See Your Father' can be found in Liverpool's Walker Art Gallery. Who painted it? A: WILLIAM FREDERICK YEAMES
Q: Which hanging basket favourite is also called 'Pelargonium'? A: GERANIUM
Q: What is the key ingredient of 'Cumberland Sauce'? A: REDCURRANTS
Q: Which animal appears on the flag of the US state of California? A: A BEAR
Q: Whose parents were Edmund Tudor and Margaret Beaufort? A: HENRY VII
Q: Which letter of the alphabet is denoted by a single dash in the Morse Code? A: 'T'
Q: Which of the Mitford sisters wrote the semi- autobiography 'Pursuit Of Love' in 1945? A: NANCY
Q: For which film did British actor Jim Broadbent win the 'Oscar' as Best Supporting Actor in 2001? A: 'IRIS'
Q: Which letter of the alphabet is denoted by a single dot in the Morse code? A: 'E'
Q: In Roman mythology, who were 'Aglaia', 'Euphrosyne', and 'Thalia'? A: THE GRACES
Q: With which orchestral instrument would you associate Yo-Yo Ma? A: CELLO
Q: Who wrote the Art Garfunkel number one hit 'Bright Eyes'? A: MIKE BATT
Q: Who was the only Knight of the 'Round Table' to see the entire grail? A: SIR GALAHAD
Q: Which Italian city is the capital of Tuscany? A: FLORENCE (Firenze)
Q: Which year of the 18th century was called 'The Year of Victories'? A: 1759
Q: What did the term 'Tenko' mean in Japanese prisoner of war camps? A: ROLL-CALL
Q: What is the main ingredient of the Middle-Eastern dish or snack 'Falafel'? A: CHICK PEAS
Q: Name the Scottish Football League club whose home ground is in Dumfries? A: QUEEN OF THE SOUTH
Q: Which composer was born in Belgium in 1822 but later became a French citizen? A: CESAR FRANCK
Q: Which future Prime Minister resigned as Foreign Secretary in 1938 over the appeasement of Hitler? A: ANTHONY EDEN
Q: In Italian Commedia del Arte, what was the name of 'Pantaloon's' daughter? A: 'COLUMBINE'
Q: Washington DC National Airport has been named in honour of which US President? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Who was the last British Prime Minister to have served in the forces in World War II? A: JAMES CALLAGHAN
Q: 'Approaching Menace' composed by Neil Richardson is the title of the piece of music to introduce which TV quiz show? A: 'MASTERMIND'
Q: Which race was first held in 1903 under the sponsorship of the magazine L'Auto? A: THE TOUR DE FRANCE
Q: Which is the most southerly 'Sea Area' in the 'Shipping Forecast'? A: TRAFALGAR
Q: In which US state is the Klickitat River? A: WASHINGTON
Q: The eighteenth century 'Kingdom Of Two Sicilies' consisted of Sicily and which other kingdom? A: KINGDOM OF NAPLES
Q: What is the most northerly area in the Shipping Forecast? A: SOUTH EAST ICELAND
Q: What is the name of the group of Conservative back- benchers who meet weekly when Parliament is in session? A: THE 1922 COMMITTEE
Q: The Pacific island of Bora Bora is owned by which country? A: FRANCE
Q: What position was held by 'Caiaphas' in the Gospels? A: HIGH PRIEST
Q: Which city is served by Tullamarine Airport? A: MELBOURNE
Q: At what weight has Ricky Hatton fought the majority of his bouts? A: LIGHT-WELTERWEIGHT
Q: The Seychelles gained independence from which country in 1976? A: UNITED KINGDOM
Q: The winner was the Spanish singer 'Massiel' with 'La,La,La' in the 1968 European Song Contest. Name the runner-up? A: CLIFF RICHARD (with 'Congratulations')
Q: Who am I? I first entered Parliament as MP for Oldham in 1900 and retired in 1964 when I was MP for Woodford (Essex)? A: WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: Which absorbable medical suture is made by twisting together strands of purified collagen taken from bovine intestines? A: CATGUT
Q: Who first appeared to Mohammed when he was 40 on Mount Hira near Mecca? A: ARCHANGEL GABRIEL
Q: Gary Lightbody is the lead singer with which band? A: 'SNOW PATROL'
Q: Which member of the 2009 Team GB won this year's Milan-San Remo cycle race? A: MARK CAVENDISH
Q: Which company makes 'Angel' perfume? A: THIERRY MUGLER
Q: Great Britain was given which strategic possession in 1713 by the Treaty of Utrecht? A: GIBRALTAR
Q: By what name is the flower Campanula better known? A: CANTERBURY BELL
Q: Gaberone is the capital of which African state? A: BOTSWANA
Q: David Clayton Thomas was the lead singer with which 1960's formed rock band? A: 'BLOOD, SWEAT AND TEARS'
Q: Who wrote the poem 'The Eve of St. Agnes'? A: JOHN KEATS
Q: The ship that brought 'Dracula' to England docked in which English town? A: WHITBY
Q: Who was the unlikely European correspondent of The New York Tribune in 1853? A: KARL MARX
Q: Which pair of British aviators made the first non-stop flight across the Atlantic in 1919? A: ALCOCK & BROWN
Q: In which city were the American shows 'Ally McBeal' and 'St. Elsewhere' set? A: BOSTON.
Q: The 'Eduskunta' is the name given to the national parliament of which European country? A: FINLAND
Q: In which city is the American t.v. show 'ER' set? A: CHICAGO.
Q: The 'Vouli' is the name given to the parliament of which European country? A: GREECE
Q: Which Greek astronomer was the first person to formally propose the heliocentric model of the solar system? A: ARISTARCHOS
Q: Which 20th century artistic movement, associated with the American painters Robert Henri and George Wesley Burrows, sought to portray scenes of daily life in poor urban neighbourhoods? A: ASHCAN SCHOOL
Q: The 'Pio Quinto' is a cake, drenched in Rum and topped with custard and Cinnamon, which originated in which Central American country? A: NICARAGUA
Q: What was the name of the Liberian oil tanker that was wrecked off the coast of the Isles of Scilly in 1967? A: TORREY CANYON
Q: What is the capital city of Southern Sudan? A: JUBA
Q: What was the name of the oil tanker that split into three after running aground off the coast of Brittany in 1978? A: AMOCO CADIZ
Q: Also the name of the dominant ethnic group, what is the most commonly spoken language in Southern Sudan? A: DINKA
Q: What was the name of the former Taoiseach of Ireland who died in May 2011? A: GARRET FITZGERALD
Q: According to Greek mythology, who was the father of Zeus? A: CRONUS
Q: Ferenc Madi, who died in May 2011, served as President of which country between 2000 and 2005? A: HUNGARY
Q: Which 2010 biographical film, starring James Franco, centred on 'Aron Ralston', a mountain climber who became trapped by a boulder in Utah in April 2003? A: '127 HOURS'
Q: As of 1st June 2011, who is the only Spanish Tennis player, other than Rafael Nadal, to be renaked in the Men's top ten? A: DAVID FERRER
Q: Which late 17th and early 18th century British architect designed Brighton Pavilion, Marble Arch, and the plan for London's Regents Park? A: JOHN NASH
Q: Which 19th century French composer wrote the national anthem of the Vatican City, but is perhaps best remembered for his 'Ave Maria'? A: CHARLES GOUNOD
Q: As of 1st. June 2011, who is the only Swiss Tennis player, other than Roger Federer, to be ranked in the Men's top twenty? A: STANISLAS WAWRINKA
Q: Missouri shares the vast majority of its eastern border with which other state? A: ILLINOIS
Q: Who was the Roman Emperor at the time of Christ's crucifixion? A: TIBERIUS
Q: One of the circuits for the 2011 Formula One season, the Sepang International Circuit can be found in which Asian city? A: KUALA LUMPUR
Q: One of the circuits for the 2011 Formula One season, The Marina Bay Street Circuit can be found in which Asian city? A: SINGAPORE
Q: At which Roman Catholic cathedral and UNESCO World Heritage Site in the Castile region of Spain could you visit the tomb of 'El Cid'? A: BURGOS CATHEDRAL
Q: Mississippi shares its eastern border with which other state? A: ALABAMA
Q: What is the name of the Pakistani town in which Osama Bin Laden was shot and killed in May 2011? A: ABBOTTABAD
Q: The CIA Agent 'Stan Smith' is the title character of which American animated TV series? A: 'AMERICAN DAD!'
Q: What is the name of the Icelandic volcano which erupted in May 2011 causing disruption of flights around northern Europe? A: GRIMSVOTN
Q: Which common component of antacids and laxatives is a suspension of Magnesium hydroxide in water? A: MILK OF MAGNESIA
Q: The former England captain Bobby Moore had two middle names. One was Frederick; also the name of a football team, what was his other middle name? A: CHELSEA
Q: How were 'Mistress Ford' and 'Mistress Page' collectively known in the title of a Shakespeare play? A: 'THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR'
Q: Magnesium sulphate is a substance used for medicinal and agricultural purposes. By what name is it better known? A: EPSOM SALTS
Q: Also the name of a football team, what was the middle name of former Rangers and Liverpool winger Mark Walters? A: EVERTON
Q: Thomas-a-Becket was murdered in Canterbury Cathedral during the reign of which king? A: HENRY II
Q: What is the name of the fictional island upon which the 'Thomas the Tank Engine' stories are set? A: 'SODOR'
Q: Which English scientist and philosopher invented the magnifying glass in 1250? A: ROGER BACON
Q: In which country do the football teams 'Grasshopper' and 'Young Boys' play? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Nelson's flagship. HMS Victory, sits in dry dock at which A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the electronics company SAMSUNG? A: SOUTH KOREA
Q: Which fish is used in the soup 'Cullen Skink'? A: HADDOCK
Q: "Which word completes the title of a Tony Hawks book: ""Round Ireland With A ....""?" A: """FRIDGE"""
Q: """And our friends are all aboard, many more of them live next door"" is a line from which 'Beatles' song?" A: 'YELLOW SUBMARINE'
Q: The 'BRIC Group' of developing economies became the 'BRICS Group' in 2010 by the addition of which country? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Which novel by James Patterson is the next in the 'Alex Cross' series after 'Roses Are Red'? A: 'VIOLETS ARE BLUE'
Q: Which member of 'Girls Aloud' is from Northern Ireland? A: NADINE COYLE
Q: Which English city is the setting for the film 'East Is East'? A: SALFORD
Q: What is the home venue of the 'New York Nicks' in the NBA and the 'New York Rangers' in the NHL? A: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN
Q: In recent years a fifth basic taste, in addition to sweet, bitter, sour and salty, has been proposed and given which Japanese name? A: UMAMI
Q: What is the name of the shipyard at which the 'Titanic' was built? A: HARLAND AND WOLFF
Q: In 1990 which footballer wished to move from R.F.C. Liege to U.S.L. Dunkerque after his Belgian contract expired - the move falling through because Liege wanted a transfer fee? A: JEAN-MARC BOSMAN
Q: Which US President was known as 'The Rail-Splitter' and 'The Great Emancipator'? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: Which resort is the site of the art deco Midland Hotel and Happy Mount Park, the venue for the short-lived 'The World of Crinkley Bottom'? A: MORECAMBE
Q: Which Canadian province lies immediately east of British Columbia? A: ALBERTA
Q: Who did Cassius Clay defeat in February 1964 to become World Heavyweight Boxing Champion? A: SONNY LISTON
Q: Which university has colleges called Ustinov, St. Aidan's and Grey? A: DURHAM
Q: In physics, what is defined as the rate of change of velocity with time? A: ACCELERATION
Q: Which 'Doctor' has been played on television by Bill Simpson and David Rintoul? A: 'DOCTOR FINLAY'
Q: What was the surname of the father of US President Bill Clinton, who died before his birth? A: BLYTHE
Q: Which resort is the site of the Grand Hotel, damaged by shelling by the German Navy in 1914 and the North Marine Road Ground, the site of an annual Cricket festival? A: SCARBOROUGH
Q: Which Central American country lies between Panama and Nicaragua? A: COSTA RICA
Q: Ralph Boston won gold at the 1960 Olympics, silver at the 1964 Olympics and bronze at the 1968 Olympics, in which athletics event? A: LONG JUMP
Q: In which Swiss resort does the World Economic Forum hold its annual meeting? A: DAVOS
Q: Who wrote the series of novels featuring the adventurer 'Dirk Pitt'? A: CLIVE CUSSLER
Q: The film '24 Hour Party People' follows the development of which Manchester record label in the '70's and '80's? A: FACTORY RECORDS
Q: Ken Dodd's first top ten hit in 1960 was his signature tune. Name that tune? A: 'LOVE IS LIKE A VIOLIN'
Q: What was the name of the nurse played by Lynda Barron in 'Open All Hours'? A: 'NURSE GLADYS EMMANUEL'
Q: The German navy only built two 'Bismark Class' battleships. One was 'Bismark'. What was the name of the other? A: 'TIRPITZ'
Q: What is the national flower of India? A: LOTUS
Q: There are six types or flavours of Quark. Which one is missing: up, down, bottom, top, strange and ........? A: CHARM
Q: In physics, what is defined as mass per unit volume? A: DENSITY
Q: Who played 'Emma Peel' in the 1998 film 'The Avengers'? A: UMA THURMAN
Q: Which religious t.v. programme, first broadcast in 1969, was created and presented by Jess Yates? A: 'STARS ON SUNDAY'
Q: Which sauce is used in a dish of 'Eggs Benedict'? A: HOLLANDAISE
Q: What was the first Christian name of Harold Wilson? A: JAMES
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the electronics company NOKIA? A: FINLAND
Q: In which area of the city is H.M. Prison Birmingham? A: WINSON GREEN
Q: Which Durham new town is named after a miner's leader? A: PETERLEE
Q: Which horse won the 2014 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Lord Windermere
Q: What name is given to the traditional Malay dagger with a wavy blade? A: Kris
Q: Billy Bunter lived in mortal fear of which cane-toting schoolmaster? A: Mr Quelch
Q: Britt Ekland played Mary Goodnight in which James Bond film? A: The Man With the Golden Gun
Q: The national flower of Sweden is Convollaria. What is its common name? A: Lily of the Valley
Q: In Gustav Holst’s “Planet Suite”, which planet is the bringer of peace? A: Venus
Q: Former international football manager Mick McCarthy now manages which Football League team? A: Ipswich Town
Q: Marvel Comics’ character Tony Stark is the alter-ego of which superhero? A: Iron Man
Q: Which actor, more familiarly seen in television roles, was shot as he ran down a station platform in the film “The Great Escape”? A: David McCallum
Q: Which rock drummer had a 1985 solo hit with “The Boys of Summer”? A: Don Henley
Q: Which German battle cruiser was sunk in the battle of the North Cape in December 1942? A: Scharnhorst
Q: What name did the Gilbert islands adopt upon gaining independence? A: Kiribati
Q: Squidward is the extremely reluctant neighbour of which children’s TV cartoon character? A: Spongebob Squarepants
Q: Which newspaper was launched in 1986 as “Britain’s first full-colour low cost tabloid”? A: Today
Q: Who created and drew the comic strip “The Fosdyke Saga”? A: Bill Tidy
Q: Telly Savalas played the villainous Blofeld in which James Bond film? A: On Her Majesty’s Secret Service
Q: Albert Christian Edward as the three other forenames of which member of the Royal family? A: Prince Andrew
Q: The river Ure runs along the length of which Yorkshire dale? A: Wensleydale
Q: More familiar for television roles, who played King Edward the First in the film “Braveheart”? A: Patrick McGoohan
Q: Although they had 9 number ones in their home country, which Dutch group’s only UK hit was “Radar Love”? A: Golden Earring
Q: Which fruit juice is added to champagne to make a Bellini cocktail? A: Peach
Q: To emphasise its links to the sea, which country depicts the top of Neptune’s trident on its national flag? A: Barbados
Q: Which Victorian artist painted “The Boyhood of Raleigh”? A: John Everett Millais
Q: Between 1867 and 1914 wjat title was given to the viceroy of Egypt? A: Khedive
Q: In which decade did British Rail scrap third class travel? A: 1950’s
Q: Which horse won the 2014 Grand National? A: Pineau De Re
Q: The bane of Stan Butler’s life, who played the officious Inspector “Blakey” in the TV sitcom “On the Buses”? A: Stephen Lewis
Q: Which schoolboy, created by Anthony Buckeridge, attended Linbury Court School? A: Jennings
Q: Which is the outermost layer of the atmosphere? A: Exosphere
Q: Which two countries are linked by the Brenner Pass? A: Italy and Austria
Q: Morton’s Tower stands at the entrance to which London palace? A: Lambeth Palace
Q: In the 1990’s which Scottish group asked “Why Does It Always Rain on Me”? A: Travis
Q: What gives 'Earl Grey Tea' its characteristic flavour? A: OIL OF BERGAMOT
Q: Which Roman road became part of the A1? A: ERMINE STREET
Q: Prestwick Airport is one of which city's airports? A: GLASGOW
Q: Which animal is the offspring of a male Ass and a mare? A: MULE
Q: In which form did Zeus seduce Danae, resulting in the birth of Perseus? A: A SHOWER OF GOLD
Q: Which West Sussex family seat is the home of the Dukes of Richmond and Gordon? A: GOODWOOD HOUSE
Q: Who had overall command of the Task Force sent to get the Argentineans out of the 'Falklands'? A: ADMIRAL SANDY WOODWARD
Q: "What is Puck's alternative name in ""A Midsummer Night's Dream""?" A: ROBIN GOODFELLOW
Q: Which Supermarket chain has run a series of 'Computers For Schools' voucher schemes? A: TESCO
Q: "Which poet wrote "" Anthem For Doomed Youth"" in 1917?" A: WILFRED OWEN
Q: Which country won the African Nations Football Cup in 2002? A: CAMEROON
Q: Which major car company owns 'Seat'? A: VOLKSWAGEN
Q: By what name was Manchester Airport originally known? A: RINGWAY
Q: Which Greek word means 'citadel' or 'highest city'? A: ACROPOLIS
Q: Which heroine of Greek mythology refused to marry any man who could not beat her in a foot race? A: ATALANTA
Q: Sarah was the mother of Isaac and the wife of which Hebrew patriarch? A: ABRAHAM
Q: Andre Breton, Max Ernst, Yves Tanguy, Andre Masson were amongst the leading exponents of which style of painting founded in 1924? A: SURREALISM
Q: In which Irish city can one stroll along the Mardyke Walk, between the north and south channels of the River Lee? A: CORK
Q: Which Leicestershire family seat is home to the Duke of Rutland? A: BELVOIR CASTLE
Q: Which female singer was torn between two lovers in 1977? A: MARY MACGREGOR
Q: What is the monetary unit of Morocco? A: DIRHAM
Q: What type of coffee traditionally comes from Yemen? A: MOCHA
Q: Give the full name of the villain from the 'Friday the 13th.' series of movies? A: JASON VORHEES
Q: Which TV detective was a reluctant George Cross recipient? A: JACK FROST
Q: Which other car company owns Ferrari? A: FIAT
Q: Which treaty, signed in May 1902, ended the Boer War? A: VEREENIGING
Q: 'Touchstone', a court jester, features in which Shakespeare comedy? A: 'AS YOU LIKE IT'
Q: Na is the chemical symbol for which element? A: SODIUM
Q: Which is the oldest college at Oxford University? A: UNIVERSITY COLLEGE
Q: 'Sean Dillon' is an ex-IRA terrorist created by which author? A: JACK HIGGINS
Q: Who composed the opera 'Lakme'? A: DELIBES
Q: "The song, ""Food, Glorious Food"" comes from which musical?" A: 'OLIVER'
Q: In the USA during World War I, any reference to things German was considered unpatriotic, in order to avoid this problem which common foodstuff was called a 'Salisbury Steak'? A: HAMBURGER
Q: Who played the title role in the film 'Dr. No'? A: JOSEPH WISEMAN
Q: Which football team plays home games at Sixfields Stadium? A: NORTHAMPTON TOWN
Q: What was the name of the Blackburn weaver who invented the'Spinning Jenny'? A: JAMES HARGREAVES
Q: Where in the human body, would you find the 'Sartorius Muscle'? A: IN THE THIGH
Q: The Jay belongs to which bird family? A: CROW
Q: Which author's works include the novels 'Antic Hay' and 'Crome Yellow'? A: ALDOUS HUXLEY
Q: Who wrote the poem 'The Village Blacksmith'? A: HENRY LONGFELLOW
Q: In which US state is the 'Great Smoky Mountains National Park'? A: TENNESSEE
Q: What was Dusty Springfield's first No. 1 hit? A: 'YOU DON'T HAVE TO SAY YOU LOVE ME'
Q: "Whose law states""Bad money drives out good""?" A: GRESHAM'S LAW
Q: Which football team plays home games at the Memorial Ground? A: BRISTOL ROVERS
Q: Pitchblende is an ore of which metal? A: URANIUM
Q: In the 1960's TV series 'Bonanza', which actor played the part of 'Hoss Cartwright'? A: DAN BLOCKER
Q: Beside which Scottish firth is the golf course Muirfield situated? A: FORTH
Q: The 'Hoover Dam' is onwhich American river? A: COLORADO
Q: Who played the title role in the film 'Goldfinger'? A: GERT FROBE
Q: Which state of the USA has only one common border with a neighbouring US state? A: MAINE
Q: Who would usually use a sword called an 'Estoque'? A: MATADOR
Q: What nationality was the composer Anton Bruckner? A: AUSTRIAN
Q: California has borders with three other states, oregon and Nevada are two, which is the third? A: ARIZONA
Q: "To whom did Winston Churchill refer as ""a modest little manwith much to be modest about""?" A: CLEMENT ATTLEE
Q: With which book did Peter Carey win the 1988 Booker award? A: 'OSCAR AND LUCINDA'
Q: Who composed the musical shows 'Kiss Me Kate' and 'Can Can'? A: COLE PORTER
Q: What is the eleventh letter of the Greek alphabet, the equivalent of our letter 'L'? A: LAMBDA
Q: Which Spanish city houses 'La Mezquita', and was the capital of Muslim Spain from 756 until its capture in 1236? A: CORDOBA
Q: Which author's works include 'Pied Piper' and 'No Highway'? A: NEVILLE SHUTE
Q: In which US state is the 'Shenandoah National Park'> A: VIRGINIA
Q: Which 17th century French philosopher and religious thinker, has given his name to the SI unit of pressure? A: PASCAL
Q: What was the 'Rolling Stones' first No. 1 hit? A: 'IT'S ALL OVER NOW'
Q: Which model of Ford car was introduced in 1950 and was discontinued in 1971? A: FORD ZEPHYR
Q: What is the eighteenth letter of the Greek alphabet, equivalent to 'S'? A: SIGMA
Q: In which part of the human body can the 'Tragus' be found? A: THE EAR
Q: The 'Sukkur Dam' is on which river? A: INDUS
Q: Which Italian city is served by 'Malapensa Airport'? A: MILAN
Q: What is the nameof the invention of John Kay which aided the early textile revolution during the 18th century? A: THE FLYING SHUTTLE
Q: Who would normally use a tool called a 'Burin' in his work? A: AN ENGRAVER
Q: In which county is Sandown Park racecourse? A: SURREY
Q: With which book did Roddy Doyle win the 1993 Booker award? A: 'PADDY CLARKE HA HA HA'
Q: What is the name of the process, in which a fluid passes through a semi-permeable membrane, from a weaker to a stronger solution? A: OSMOSIS
Q: Which historical character, of dubious morals, died at the Castle of Dux in Bohemia in 1798? A: CASANOVA
Q: From which plant is Tequila made? A: AGAVE
Q: From the roots of which plant is Tapioca made? A: CASSAVA
Q: Which English king died from Dysentery reputedly caused by poisoned ale and a surfeit of Peaches? A: JOHN
Q: What was the nationality of the painter Arthur Boyd? A: AUSTRALIAN
Q: Spending last season on loan to Hull City from Manchester United, Manucho is the only footballer from which country to have played in the Premier League? A: ANGOLA
Q: Which gas is produced via the 'Haber Process'? A: AMMONIA
Q: "Which American author wrote 'The Fight', a novel based on ""The Rumble In The Jungle"" boxing match between Ali and Foreman?" A: NORMAN MAILER
Q: Which non-metallic element is obtained via the 'Frasch Process'? A: SULPHUR
Q: Which major car manufacturer has its headquarters in Mumbai in India? A: TATA
Q: Which American author wrote 'Death In The Afternoon', a non-fiction work about Spanish bull fighting? A: ERNEST HEMMINGWAY
Q: Playing for Hull City last season, Daniel Cousin is the only footballer from which country to have played in the Premier League? A: GABON
Q: Prior to becoming Vice-President, and later President, Richard Nixon was a Senator for which state? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: Which 2009 film stars Nicholas Cage as a professor of astrophysics who discovers that he can predict future catastrophes? A: 'KNOWING'
Q: Prior to becoming Vice-President, and later President, Gerald Ford was a member of the House of Representatives for which state? A: MICHIGAN
Q: On the flag of which country can you find a Spanish phrase translating as 'Peace And Justice'? A: PARAGUAY
Q: 'Poker Face' was a 2009 number one for which singer? A: 'LADY GAGA'
Q: Who discovered the chemical elements Potassium, Sodium and Calcium? A: HUMPHREY DAVY
Q: In Norse mythology, what kind of creatures were 'Toothgnasher' and 'Toothgrinder' who drew Thor's chariot? A: GOATS
Q: Which company manufactures the Wii video games console? A: NINTENDO
Q: Who did Roger Federer defeat in the final to win the Men's Singles title at the 2009 French Open? A: ROBIN SODERLING
Q: Which Rossini opera has a title that translates into English as 'The Thieving Magpie'? A: 'LA GAZZA LADRA'
Q: Going on to lose to Soderling in the semi-final, who defeated Andy Murray in the French Open quarterfinals? A: FERNANDO GONZALES
Q: Which Mozart opera has a title that can be translated into English as 'Thus Do All Women'? A: 'COSI FAN TUTTE'
Q: What is the first name of the title character in Dickens' novel 'Little Dorrit'? A: 'AMY'
Q: Bryan Adams'(Everything I Do) I Do It For You’ spent 16 weeks at number one in 1991. Which 'U2' single finally knocked it from number one? A: 'THE FLY'
Q: In which African country does the Equator reach the Indian Ocean? A: SOMALIA
Q: What is the medical name for the chest bone? A: STERNUM
Q: In which American state is the drama series 'The Sopranos' set? A: NEW JERSEY
Q: If all the countries that have Spanish as an official language were listed alphabetically, which country would come first? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which Greek philosopher is popularly known as 'The Weeping Philosopher' because of his melancholy nature? A: HERACLITUS
Q: Named after two bodies of water, what name was given to the provisional border between Poland and East Germany that was agreed at the Potsdam Conference following World War II? A: ODER-NEISSE LINE
Q: Who won a gold medal for Great Britain in the Men's 1000k K-1 canoeing event at the Beijing Olympics? A: TIM BRABANTS
Q: Which is the heaviest planet in our solar system? A: JUPITER
Q: In which 1998 film does Ewan McGregor co-star as the fictional rock star 'Curt Wild'? A: 'VELVET GOLDMINE'
Q: Who wrote the music for the ballet 'The Three-Cornered Hat'? A: MANUEL de FALLA
Q: What papal name was taken by Nicholas Breakspear, the only English Pope? A: ADRIAN IV
Q: Which opera by Sergei Prokofiev is based on a novel by Leo Tolstoy? A: 'WAR AND PEACE'
Q: Which county shares borders with Devon, Somerset, Wiltshire and Hampshire? A: DORSET
Q: Which hit for 'The Fugees' was the biggest-selling single in Britain in 1996? A: 'KILLING ME SOFTLY'
Q: Drawing on the story of the meeting between the baby Jesus and John the Baptist on the flight into Egypt, what name is given to either of two almost identical paintings by Leonardo da Vinci housed in the Louvre and the National Gallery in London? A: 'VIRGIN OF THE ROCKS'
Q: Which team defeated the Indianapolis Colts to win the 2010 Super Bowl? A: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS
Q: Which French physicist gave the first successful theoretical account of heat engines, now known as his namesake cycle, thereby laying the foundations of the second law of thermodynamics? A: SADI CARNOT
Q: Which thermodynamic concept, defined as the unavailability of a system's energy to do work, or more crudely, the measure of disorder within a system, was introduced by the German physicist Rudolf Clausius? A: ENTROPY
Q: Housed in the Louvre in Paris, which enormous oil on canvas painted by Paolo Veronese depicts the moment when Jesus turned the water into wine? A: 'THE WEDDING AT CANA'
Q: Which 1991 Disney movie was the first animated film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture? A: 'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST'
Q: Which year saw the end of the Korean War, the death of Josef Stalin and the first televised Academy Awards Ceremony? A: 1953
Q: The fashion designer John Galliano was born in which British overseas territory? A: GIBRALTAR
Q: Which year saw the resignation of John Profumo, the Great Train Robbery and the assassination of John F. Kennedy? A: 1963
Q: Released in 1995, which was the first fully computer- animated feature film? A: 'TOY STORY'
Q: What is the name of the central character, a Harvard professor of religious iconology and symbology, in Dan Brown's novels 'Angels And Demons' and 'The Da Vinci Code'? A: ROBERT LANGDON
Q: Who was the Commander of the Luftwaffe who avoided execution by committing suicide by cyanide ingestion the night before he was due to be hanged in October 1946? A: HERMANN GOERING
Q: What is the name of the capital and largest city in Brunei? A: BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN
Q: Who had a number one hit in June 2010 with 'Dirtee Disco'? A: DIZZEE RASCAL
Q: 'Operation Anthropoid' was the codename given to the successful plot to assassinate which senior Nazi? A: REINHARD HEYDRICH
Q: Located in Kanagawa Prefecture on Honshu, which is Japan's second largest city by population? A: YOKOHAMA
Q: What was the disorder afflicting the protagonist in Mark Haddon's 'The Curious Incident Of The Dog In The Night-Time'? A: ASPERGER'S SYNDROME
Q: Killikrates and Iktinos were the architects of which building completed on the 5th century BC? A: PARTHENON
Q: What was the name of the gymnastics group who won this year's 'Britain's Got Talent' final? A: 'SPELBOUND'
Q: Initially ruling as part of a troika with Lavrentiy Beria and Vyacheslav Molotov, who became Premier of the Soviet Union upon the death of Josef Stalin in 1953? A: GEORGY MALENKOV
Q: An aria sung by the unknown prince 'Calaf' in Puccini's 'Turandot', how does 'Nessum Dorma' translate into English? A: 'NONE SHALL SLEEP'
Q: Made up of the top members of the Central Committee, what was the name of the elected body that functioned as the central policymaking body of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union? A: POLITBURO
Q: How does Rossini's opera 'La Gazza Ladra' translate into English? A: 'THE THIEVING MAGPIE'
Q: Which great modernist architect designed the Seagram Building in New York in collaboration with Philip Johnson? A: LUDWIG MIES VAN DER ROHE
Q: Which football team have recently been crowned Portuguese League Champions? A: BENFICA
Q: Which Portuguese navigator is widely regarded as the first European to discoverer of Brazil? A: PEDRO ALVARES CABRAL
Q: What is the name of the cooking technique used in Japanese cuisine, in which foods are broiled or grilled in a sweet soy sauce marinade? A: TERIYAKI
Q: Which American adventurer, the first man to fly non-stop around the world in a balloon, died in 2007 after the plane he was flying crashed in the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California? A: STEVE FOSSETT
Q: Often used in sushi, which Japanese delicacy consists of very fresh raw seafood, sliced into thin pieces and served with a dipping sauce? A: SASHIMI
Q: Which dog that was originally bred in the Congo, is sometimes known as 'The Barkless Dog' as it produces an unusual yodel-like sound due to its unusually shaped larynx? A: BASENJI
Q: What was the first name of Mr. Diesel, the inventor of the Diesel engine? A: RUDOLF
Q: What is the name of the Italian tennis player who defeated Samantha Stosur to win the Women's French Open title earlier this month? A: FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE
Q: Which English monarch wrestled with Francis I of France at 'The Field of the Cloth of Gold'? A: HENRY VIII
Q: What was the first name of Mr. Braille, who devised a system allowing blind people to read and write? A: LOUIS
Q: Which English king was overthrown after 'The Glorious Revolution'? A: JAMES II
Q: Thought to be the strongest of all dog breeds and certainly the strongest swimmer, which dog, originally bred in Canada, is noteable for its waterproof coat and webbed feet? A: NEWFOUNDLAND
Q: The name of which chemical element is derived from the Greek for 'colour'? A: CHROMIUM
Q: Also the name of a popular TV character, who was the father of the apostles John the Evangelist and James the Greater? A: ZEBEDEE
Q: Mount Cook is the highest point in which Commonwealth country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Colin Firth was nominated for an 'Oscar' for Best Actor this year for his role as 'George Falconer' in which film? A: 'A SINGLE MAN'
Q: Mount Logan is the highest point in which Commonwealth country? A: CANADA
Q: The 2001 film 'Blackhawk Down' told the story of a US A: SOMALIA
Q: Which British architect designed the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? A: RICHARD ROGERS
Q: Which English queen is said to haunt the library at Windsor Castle? A: ELIZABETH I
Q: The British Open Championships of which sport are held annually at Cowdray Park in West Sussex? A: POLO
Q: In which sport does the '40/20 Rule' reward excellence in kicking? A: RUGBY LEAGUE
Q: Falco subbuteo is the scientific name for which member of the falcon family? A: HOBBY
Q: Which South African was a member of the British War Cabinet between June 1917 and January 1919? A: JAN SMUTS
Q: Formerly known as 'Marky Mark', who played 'Charlie Croker' in the 2003 film 'The Italian Job'? A: MARK WAHLBERG
Q: The new musical 'Betty Blue Eyes' is based on the film 'A Private Function' which starred Michael Palin and Maggie Smith 'Betty' is stolen at the time of the 1947 wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip. What kind of animal is 'Betty'? A: A PIG
Q: Who was Prime Minister from June 1885 to January 1886, June 1886 to August 1892 and June 1895 to July 1902? A: MARQUESS OF SALISBURY
Q: Born in Oldham, who is the Chair of Particle Physics at the University of Manchester? A: BRIAN COX
Q: What was the occupation of the Ford workers who went on strike in 1968, the subject of the film 'Made In Dagenham'? A: SEWING MACHINISTS
Q: In 'Macbeth' who is 'Duncan's' son and 'Malcolm's' younger brother? A: 'DONALBAIN'
Q: In which country is the Tiger Leaping Gorge, one of the deepest canyons in the world? A: CHINA
Q: In which year on June 14th was the Battle of Naseby? A: 1645
Q: In the musical 'My Fair Lady', which song is performed by the character 'Freddy Eynsford-Hill' A: 'ON THE STREET WHERE YOU LIVE'
Q: Emmanuel Leutze's most famous painting is of George Washington crossing which river, an event that took place in 1776? A: DELAWARE
Q: Which word refers to people from Halifax? A: HALIGONIAN
Q: Who wrote the book 'A Town Like Alice'? A: NEVIL SHUTE
Q: Which amateur jockey rode the winner of the 2011 Cheltenham Gold Cup and the runner-up in the 2011 Grand National? A: SAM WALEY-COHEN
Q: In which year on June 14th was the Battle of Marengo? A: 1800
Q: In 'Hamlet' who is the sister of 'Laertes'? A: 'OPHELIA'
Q: The ICC 'Hall of Fame' was launched in 2009. Who is the only female cricketer to be inducted, captaining England to victory in the 1973 World Cup? A: RACHEL HEYHOE-FLINT
Q: Lizzie Siddall was the model for the painting of the drowning of Ophelia by which Pre-Raphaelite? A: JOHN EVERETT MILLAIS
Q: Who wrote the book 'From Here To Eternity'? A: JAMES JONES
Q: Brian Cox was a keyboard player in the 1990's for the band 'D:Ream'. What is the title of the band's number one hit from 1994? A: 'THINGS CAN ONLY GET BETTER'
Q: In musical notation, how many semiquavers equal one semibreve? A: SIXTEEN
Q: In which country is the Laerdal Tunnel, the longest road tunnel in the world? A: NORWAY
Q: Who conducted the premiere of 'Turandot' at La Scala in 1926? A: ARTURO TOSCANINI
Q: Denis Healey was an MP for a constituency in which city throughout his career? A: LEEDS
Q: 'Professor Yaffle', a wooden woodpecker, featured in which children's TV series? A: 'BAGPUSS'
Q: In 1902, who succeeded the Marquis of Salisbury as Prime Minister? A: ARTHUR BALFOUR
Q: In 'My Fair Lady' what is the first name of 'Eliza Doolittle's' father? A: 'ALFRED'
Q: Gilbertese is an official language of which Pacific island nation? A: KIRIBATI
Q: Which player defeated the reigning champion Neil Robertson in the First Round of the 2011 World Snooker Championships before losing in the Final to John Higgins? A: JUDD TRUMP
Q: Which country used the Markka as currency before the Euro? A: FINLAND
Q: A two word answer is required. Bufo calamita is the scientific name for which amphibian, rare in Britain? A: NATTERJACK TOAD
Q: What is the nickname of Millwall Ladies Football Club? A: 'LIONESSES'
Q: The River Tyne is formed by the confluence of the North Tyne and the South Tyne, west of which town? A: HEXHAM
Q: Which western European city is served by 'Kloten Airport'? A: ZURICH
Q: Which name describes a battle in Northumberland, a district of Washington DC, and an American actor? A: CHEVY CHASE
Q: In March 1992 'Deeply Dippy' was the only number one hit for which group? A: 'RIGHT SAID FRED'
Q: "Which ship carried ""five million hogs and six million dogs, and seven million barrels of porter""?" A: 'THE IRISH ROVER'
Q: In which country in the northern hemisphere is Cape Farewell? A: GREENLAND.
Q: What was the middle name of the character 'Arnold Rimmer' from the t.v. series 'Red Dwarf'? A: 'JUDAS'
Q: Prior to Gordon Brown who was the last Prime Minister to represent a Scottish constituency? A: ALEC DOUGLAS HOME
Q: The 'Naughty Forty' are/were a gang of football hooligans who supported which Midlands club? A: STOKE CITY
Q: Who was the last Prime Minister to represent a Welsh constituency? A: JAMES CALLAGHAN
Q: What type of creature is a 'Falabella', found in Argentina? A: HORSE
Q: What in April 1983 was the only number one hit for 'Spandau Ballet'? A: 'TRUE'
Q: Which singer postponed his civil ceremony with long time partner Kenny Goss in 2006? A: GEORGE MICHAEL
Q: Which Pre-Raphaelite artist painted 'The Scapegoat', presently on display at the Lady Lever Art Gallery? A: HOLMAN HUNT
Q: Which former England Cricket player was nicknamed 'Bumble'? A: DAVID LLOYD.
Q: In which country in 2003 was the 'Rose Revolution'? A: GEORGIA
Q: What type of creature is a 'Fennec', which is native to North Africa and Arabia, and which has large pointed ears? A: FOX
Q: In which Dickens novel does the action start with the Dover mail coach being stopped on Shooters Hill with a message for a passenger - lawyer 'Jarvis Lorry'? A: 'TALE OF TWO CITIES'
Q: What name links a woman who died in childbirth in 1537, and the role of 'Solitaire' in a 1973 film? A: JANE SEYMOUR
Q: What was the middle name of the character 'Arthur Fonzarelli' from the t.v. series 'Happy Days'? A: 'HERBERT'
Q: Which country issues a 1Euro coin showing the famous drawing 'The Vitruvian Man'? A: ITALY
Q: For her role in which film did Jane Darwell win the 'Oscar' for Best Supporting Actress in 1940 when aged 61? A: 'THE GRAPES OF WRATH'
Q: Which country issues 1 and 2 Euro coins showing a tree, drawn by artist Joaquim Jiminez, symbolising life, continuity and growth? A: FRANCE
Q: Which hymn, written by Eleanor Farjeon, 1881-1965, was the inspiration for a 'top ten' hit of 1972? A: 'MORNING HAS BROKEN'
Q: St. John's, the oldest city of English-speaking North America, is the capital of which Canadian province? A: NEWFOUNDLAND
Q: Which motor cycle company made the 'Daytona' model? A: TRIUMPH
Q: The bacterium Bordetella pertussis is the causative agent for which childhood disease? A: WHOOPING COUGH
Q: Which book of the Old Testament follows the Pentateuch (ie. is the sixth)? A: JOSHUA
Q: In which country is Cabo (Cape) Verde (now Cap Vert)? A: SENEGAL
Q: Which 20th century artist's works include 'Christ Of St. John Of The Cross' and 'Metamorphosis Of Narcissus'? A: SALVADOR DALI
Q: In which country in 2004 was the 'Orange Revolution'? A: UKRAINE
Q: Which European city is served by 'Arlanda Airport'? A: STOCKHOLM
Q: Which childhood disease commonly presents with painful enlargement of the parotid salivary glands? A: MUMPS
Q: Which Irish folk band had UK 'top twenty' hits in 1967 with 'Seven Drunken Nights' and 'Black Velvet Band'? A: 'THE DUBLINERS'
Q: The 'Compass Rose' is a ship prominent in which 20th century novel? A: 'THE CRUEL SEA'
Q: What disease was declared extinct by the World Health Organisation in 1980? A: SMALLPOX
Q: 'Russell Hybrids' are a type of which common garden flower? A: LUPINS
Q: On board a sailing vessel, what are 'sheets'? A: ROPES
Q: Which family of birds has species called Little, Caspian and Fairy? A: Tern
Q: Which Stockport brewery produces Hatters Mild, Old Stockport Bitter, Frederic’s and Old Tom? A: Robinsons
Q: Which car manufacturer produced models called the Laurel, Maxima and Scarab? A: Datsun
Q: Which perfume company produces the fragrance Angel? A: Thierry Mugler
Q: In which film did Jane Fonda play a hooker to win the 1971 Best Actress Oscar? A: Klute
Q: Astrakhan is a port in the delta of which river? A: The Volga
Q: Which country, with an eastern Mediterranean coastline, produces the red win Chateau Musar? A: Lebanon
Q: Which town is the administrative headquarters of Clackmannanshire District Council? A: Alloa
Q: Which country, a member of the EU, produces the rich dessert wine Commandaria? A: Cyprus
Q: Which town is the administrative headquarters of Angus District Council? A: Forfar
Q: Berengaria, the wife of Richard I of England, came from which European Kingdom, now part of Spain? A: Navarre
Q: In which city is the opera Turandot set? A: Peking
Q: Which Persian tentmaker, astronomer, calendar reformer and poet lived from about 1050 to about 1123? A: Omar Khayyam
Q: Which perfume company make the fragrance Nu? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: Which organisation was founded by British lawyer Peter Benenson in 1961? A: Amnesty International
Q: Chomolungma is the local name for which geographical feature? A: Mount Everest
Q: Which French monk, doctor, plant collector and ribald satirist lived from about 1494 to about 1553? A: Rabelais
Q: Which former leader of the Conservative party was MP for Folkestone and Hythe? A: Michael Howard
Q: Which song was a top 40 hit for both the Bee Gees in 1979 and Steps in 1998? A: Tragedy
Q: Catherine, wife of King Charles II of England, came from which Portuguese royal house? A: Braganza
Q: Which song was a top 40 hit for both The Pretenders in 1994 and Girls Aloud in 2004? A: I’ll Stand By You
Q: In which city is the opera Tosca set? A: Rome
Q: Which football club replaced Workington in the Football League after th 1977-78 season? A: Wimbledon
Q: Who carved the tomb of Oscar Wilde at the Pere Lachaise cemetery? A: Jacob Epstein
Q: In 1979 Jerry Rawlings led the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council which took control of which African country/ A: Ghana
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in 1883 and first entered Parliament in 1922 as MP for Limehouse? A: Clement Atlee
Q: Which 19th century artist illustrated Oscar Wilde’s “Salome” and Pope’s “Rape of the Lock”? A: Aubrey Beardsley
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in 1897 and first entered Parliament in 1923 as MP for Warwick and Leamington? A: Anthony Eden
Q: Between 1963 and 1975, FRELIMO, a nationalist group, fought for the independence of which African country? A: Mozambique
Q: Which Lerner and Leowe musical of 1958 features the songs “The Night They Invented Champagne” and “I Remember It Well”? A: Gigi
Q: In which film did Rod Steiger play a sheriff to win the 1967 Best Actor Oscar? A: In the Heat of the Night
Q: Which former leader of the Conservative party was MP for Chingford & Woodford Green? A: Ian Duncan Smith
Q: Which family of birds has species called Little, Common and Glaucous? A: Gull
Q: Who commanded the German forces at the Battle of Stalingrad A: Friedrich Paulus
Q: Lonicera is the Latin name for which fragrant climbing plant? A: Honeysuckle
Q: Which football club replaced Barrow in the Football League after the 1971-72 season? A: Hereford
Q: The voice of which character in The Simpsons is provided by Nancy Cartwright? A: Bart
Q: In which French fishing port on the Cote d’Azur is Pamplona Beach? A: St Tropez
Q: How many people sit on a jury in Scotland? A: 15
Q: Who wrote the poem “Home Thoughts From Abroad”? A: Robert Browning
Q: Which word completes the title of a collection of keyboard music dated 1722 by Johann Sebastian Bach - The Well-Tempered ______? A: CLAVIER
Q: What is the name of Dan Dare’s Wigan-born batman? A: ALBERT FITZWILLIAM DIGBY
Q: Which car manufacturer’s logo is a chain of four intersecting circles? A: AUDI
Q: Which BBC TV drama that ran from 1985 to 1990, set in the fictional town of Tarrant, was filmed on the River Hamble and the Solent? A: HOWARD’S WAY
Q: Which ice cream company produces flavours including Cherry Garcia, Cone Sweet Cone and Caramel Chew Chew? A: BEN & JERRY’S
Q: In which city did Gavrilo Princip assassinate a husband and wife in June 1914? A: SARAJEVO
Q: Which was the second city to host the modern Olympic Games? A: PARIS
Q: Which European country has provinces called Zeeland, Friesland and Gelderland? A: THE NETHERLANDS
Q: Three Asian countries will play in the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Two are Japan and South Korea. Which is the third A: IRAN
Q: Which author who wrote The Virgin Soldiers died earlier this month aged 83? A: LESLIE THOMAS
Q: The Varicella Zoster Virus causes which disease in children? A: CHICKENPOX
Q: Which 88 year old Dame is currently appearing in Blithe Spirit in London? A: ANGELA LANSBURY
Q: Mrs Malaprop is a character in which Sheridan comedy? A: THE RIVALS
Q: Which bird features on the flag of the US state of Louisiana? A: PELICAN
Q: The 1969 Derby winner Blakeney and the 1973 winner Morston were both named after villages in which English county? A: NORFOLK
Q: Who was MP for Makerfield from 1987 to 2010? A: IAN MCCARTNEY
Q: Who was the husband of Saint Anne and father of the Virgin Mary? A: SAINT JOACHIM
Q: Which motorway runs from near Preston to Colne? A: M65
Q: Which member of The Pussycat Dolls was born in Hawaii? A: NICOLE SHERZINGER
Q: Which character in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland recites the poem which begins Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you’re at! Up above the world you fly, Like a tea tray in the sky? A: THE (MAD) HATTER
Q: The olfactory nerve carries the sensory information for which of the senses? A: SMELL
Q: Which 1961 Western is the only film directed by Marlon Brando? A: ONE-EYED JACKS
Q: In Through The Looking Glass which characters recite the poem The Walrus and the Carpenter to Alice? A: TWEEDLEDUM and TWEEDLEDEE
Q: The screenplay of the 1961 horror film The Pit and the Pendulum was based on a short story by which author? A: EDGAR ALLAN POE
Q: Which musical, currently running in London, includes the song Tomorrow is a Latter Day? A: THE BOOK OF MORMON
Q: Mrs Bardell is the landlady of which Dickens character who she sues for breach of promise? A: SAMUEL PICKWICK
Q: Fritz Haber won the 1918 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for synthesising which chemical compound? A: AMMONIA
Q: In which film does Dustin Hoffman play Michael Dorsey and Dorothy Michaels? A: TOOTSIE
Q: The Outside-Half Factory and The Pontypool Front Row were written by which Welsh performer? A: MAX BOYCE
Q: Which author who created Adrian Mole died last month aged 68? A: SUE TOWNSEND
Q: Which cricket team will play 5 test matches against England in July and August this year? A: INDIA
Q: At which race course is the King Richard III Stakes run in April? A: LEICESTER
Q: Ian McCartney was Labour Party Chair from 2003 to 2006 when he was succeeded by which Salford born MP, who as a child played a street urchin in the film A Taste of Honey? A: HAZEL BLEARS
Q: According to the Acts of the Apostles on which island was Saint Paul shipwrecked on his way to Rome to appeal to Caesar? A: MALTA
Q: What name was given to the Dock in Wapping where pirates and smugglers were hanged? A: EXECUTION DOCK
Q: In which sport is a domestique a team member who works to ensure the best position for the team leader? A: CYCLING
Q: Starbuck’s Coffee traditionally has three sizes – venti, grande and which other? A: TALL
Q: In 1966 Muhammad Ali had two fights in England – the first against Henry Cooper and the second against which boxer who he knocked out in the third round? A: BRIAN LONDON
Q: Which BBC game show presented by Noel Edmonds ran from 1985 until 1998? A: TELLY ADDICTS
Q: In which sport did violinist Vanessa-Mae compete at the 2014 Winter Olympics? A: (ALPINE) SKIING
Q: Who is the Bishop of London? A: RICHARD CHARTRES
Q: At noon on December 31st in which year did Panama gain full control of the Panama Canal? A: 1999
Q: What is the stage name of singer-songwriter Eliza Caird? A: ELIZA DOOLITTLE
Q: In which city was the TV series Peaky Blinders set? A: BIRMINGHAM
Q: What name links a Welsh seaside resort and a current Everton footballer? A: Barry
Q: "Which historical figure has been played on film and TV by ""Richard Harris"", ""Tim Roth"" and ""Dominic West""?" A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: "Which chemical element has the symbol ""Na""?" A: Sodium
Q: Sir Arthur Pearson founded which newspaper in 1900; the current editor is Hugh Whittow? A: Daily Express
Q: "Which medical condition gets its name from the Greek for ""Half a Head""?" A: Migraine
Q: In Greek mythology, who built the Labyrinth? A: Daedalus
Q: Which organisation was established in London by Eglatine Jebb and her sister Dorothy Buxton in 1919, originally to alleviate starvation in Germany after the war? A: Save the Children Fund
Q: "How many characters are there in the ""Cyrillic Alphabet?" A: 32
Q: Henry Fleming is the narrator and hero of which 1894 war novel? A: The Red Badge of Courage
Q: Name the year: Nelson Mandela is sworn in as South African President, Tony Blair becomes new leader of the Labour Party and Martina Navratilova is defeated in her last Wimbledon singles final by Conchita Martinez? A: 1994
Q: Which vegetable has the Latin name Apium graveolens? A: Celery
Q: "Who composed the orchestral march ""Crown Imperial"", it was used for the coronation of King George VI in 1937?" A: William Walton.
Q: Which European country's flag is an upside - down version of the Russian flag? A: Serbia
Q: Which Ex Chief Secretary to the Treasury (2010 - 2015) was defeated by Drew Hendry of the Scottish National Party (SNP) in the General Election in May 2015? A: Danny Alexander
Q: "Released in 1976, on which album would you find the songs, ""Life in the Fast Lane"", ""New Kid in Town"" and ""Wasted Time""?" A: Hotel California
Q: Which shipping forecast area lies immediately east of Fair Isle? A: Viking
Q: What is the main ingredient of Coulibiac, a type of Russian pie? A: Fish
Q: Who wrote the plays “Nuts in May” and “Abigail’s Party”? A: Mike Leigh
Q: The battles of Lutzen 1632 and Rocroi 1643, were fought during which war? A: Thirty Years War
Q: Who was Sepp Blatter's opponent for the job of FIFA President on 29th June 2015? A: Prince Ali Bin Al- Hussein
Q: What links the ship Dr Crippen was caught on in 1910 and a coastal resort town in Scotland? A: Montrose
Q: The Lemur is native to where? A: Madagascar
Q: "Who makes the car models ""Jetta"" and ""Passat""?" A: Volkswagen
Q: """Prince of Wales"", ""Gunpowder"" and ""Russian Caravan"" are all types of what?" A: Tea
Q: Which historical figure has been played on film by Gerard Depardieu, Marlon Brando and Jim Dale? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: Which fruit has the Latin name Rubus fruiticosis? A: Blackberry
Q: Peter Kay and Sian Gibson star in which BBC sitcom about two supermarket employees who are forced to commute together? A: Car Share
Q: Paul Baumer is the narrator of which 1929 War Novel? A: All Quiet on the Western Front
Q: Jean Nidetch who died on 29th April 2015 was the founder of which organisation? A: Weightwatchers
Q: Name the year: Chilean President Savador Allende is killed in a coup, the Yom Kippur war erupts in the middle-east and Morston wins The Derby at 25-1? A: 1973
Q: "Who composed the ""War Requiem"" for the opening of the new Coventry Cathedral in 1962?" A: Benjamin Britten
Q: Which European Country's flag is an upside-down version of Monaco's flag? A: Poland
Q: Which chemical element's name is taken from the Latin for flint? A: Silicon
Q: In the recent general election, who lost his seat to conservative Andrea Jenkins at Morley and Outwood? A: Ed Balls
Q: In which Scottish city is Dalcross Airport? A: Inverness
Q: "Released in 1977, on which album would you find the songs ""Go Your Own Way"", ""Dreams"" and ""Never Going Back Again""?" A: Rumours
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""For the Fallen""?" A: Laurence Binyon
Q: Alfred Harmsworth founded which newspaper in 1903, as a newspaper for women, run by women? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Actress Wanda Ventham is the mother of which famous actor? A: Benedict Cumberbatch
Q: In the 2015 Cricket Test Series between England and New Zealand, which batsman scored the first century? A: Kane Williamson
Q: "Who wrote the ""Sword of Honour"" trilogy of novels?" A: Evelyn Waugh
Q: What is the plural of Opus? A: OPERA
Q: What was the surname of the wartime British agent known as 'Odette'? A: CHURCHILL
Q: Similarly, which team finished top of the Vauxhall Conference this year and has been promoted to the Coca Cola Division Two? A: DAGENHAM & REDBRIDGE
Q: Which Yorkshire town shares its name with the capital of a Canadian Province? A: HALIFAX
Q: What is the name of the Scandinavian alcoholic drink made from potatoes? A: AQUAVIT
Q: In which year did Freddie Mercury die of AIDS? A: 1991
Q: What is the namegiven to 'fortune telling' by playing or tarot cards? A: CARTOMANCY
Q: In 1969 troops from the Parachute Regiment invaded which West Indian island after it declared its independence from St. Kitts - Nevis? A: ANGUILLA
Q: What was founded by Siddhartha Gautama in the 6th century BC? A: BUDDISM
Q: in the version of the Morse Code used in Great Britain, what letter of the alphabetis represented by a single dash? A: T
Q: 'Myeloid Tissue' is another name for what? A: BONE MARROW
Q: In the version of the Morse Code used in Great Britain, what letter of the alphabet is represented by a single dot? A: E
Q: In the year 2000 the pop group Queen last appeared on a No. 1 hit, what was the record? A: 'WE WILL ROCK YOU'
Q: What was founded by Nanak in the 15th century? A: SIKHISM
Q: In December 1940 three British ships attacked the German battle cruiser 'Graf Spee', forcing it into Montivideo harbour.'Exeter' and 'Ajax' were two of the ships, but what was the third? A: 'ACHILLES'
Q: In which musical are 'Sky Masterson' and 'Sarah Brown' centralcharacters? A: 'GUYS AND DOLLS'
Q: Near which city is 'Fuhlsbuttel Airport'? A: HAMBURG
Q: In a 22 card tarot pack, which card is the only one beginning with the letter 'L'? A: LOVERS
Q: Who Directed the 'Oscar' winning film of 2000, 'American Beauty'? A: SAM MENDES
Q: Who was the last monarch to award one of his sons the title 'Duke of Clarence'? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Other than the United States' Bobby Fischer, which country provided the last non-Russian World Chess Champion? A: NETHERLANDS
Q: 'Red Lion' was for may years accepted as the most popular pubname in Great Britain. What pub name has now succeeded this? A: 'THE CROWN'
Q: Which Roman emperor issued 'The Edict of Milan' and endedthe persecution of Christians? A: CONSTANTINE
Q: Which eel-like fish has a sucker mouth with horny teeth, and a rough tongue, but no scales, paired fins, or jaws? A: LAMPREY
Q: Which group represented the UK at this year's Eurovision Song Contest? A: 'SCOOCH'
Q: What word describes the property of a metal which allows it to be stretched into wire? A: DUCTILITY
Q: Which 'HMC' by David Essex was No. 1 in October 1975? A: 'HOLD ME CLOSE'
Q: In the Old Testament, what was the name of the devise that contained the 'Ark of the Covenant'? A: THE TABERNACLE
Q: What is 'Crepe de Chine'? A: SILK FABRIC
Q: In which country is the Ogaden? A: ETHIOPIA
Q: With what was the 'Plowden Report' concerned? A: EDUCATION
Q: "Which American actress plays ""Roxie Hart"" in the film, 'Chicago'?" A: RENE ZELLWEGER
Q: In the film, 'The Quiet American', who gives a powerful performance as a foreign correspondent? A: MICHAEL CAINE
Q: "Which entertainer once quipped ""What you said hurt me very much - I cried all the way to the bank""?" A: LIBERACE
Q: "Which American once described Margaret Thatcher as ""the best man in England""?" A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: "Ronaldo collected the ""World Footballer Of The Year Award"" in 1996 and 1997, when playing for which club?" A: INTER MILAN
Q: "For which club was Zinedine Zidane signed when voted ""World Footballer Of The Year"" in 1998 and 2000?" A: JUVENTUS
Q: What nationality was Vitus Bering, after whom the strait separating Alaska and Russia was named? A: DANISH
Q: What was the nationality of William Baffin, who gave his name to Baffin Island? A: ENGLISH
Q: What is the name of Johannesburg's major cricket stadium, venue for this year's World Cup Final? A: THE WANDERERS
Q: In which Northamptonshire battle, fought on June 14th 1645, did the Parliamentarians under Fairfax, defeat Prince Rupert's Royalists? A: NASEBY
Q: The English and the Scots fought which battle, on September 9th.1513, near the Northumberland village of Branxton? A: FLODDEN FIELD
Q: Which Union leader of the American Civil War gave his name to a tree in California's 'Sequoia National Park'? A: GENERAL SHERMAN
Q: In Robert Louis Stevenson's 'Treasure Island', what is the name of the sinister blind pirate? A: 'PEW'
Q: Sir Sidney Holland was Prime Minister of which Commonwealth country, between 1949 and 1957? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Which TV comedy series first cast Derek Nimmo as the bumbling cleric, Reverend mervyn Noote? A: 'ALL GAS AND GAITERS'
Q: What is the name of 'Long John Silver's' parrot in the children's classic novel, 'Treasure Island'? A: CAPTAIN FLINT
Q: Hector Campora was President of which South American country in 1973? A: ARGENTINA
Q: What was the forename of 'Private Fraser', the undertaker in 'Dad's Army'? A: JAMES
Q: What was the occupation of 'Warden Hodges' in the TV classic, 'Dad's Army'? A: GREENGROCER
Q: In a flower, what name is given to the terminal part of a stamen, in which the pollen grains are produced? A: ANTHER
Q: The official discovery of Newfoundland is credited to the man who set sail from Bristol in 1497, who? A: JOHN CABOT
Q: Which Dutch navigator is credited as being the first European to sight New Zealand? A: ABEL TASMAN
Q: What type of infection is the skin complaint, Ringworm? A: A FUNGAL INFECTION
Q: What bird of fast-flowing streams is so-named from its habit of immersing itself under water to find food? A: DIPPER
Q: Which is the only country to share borders with just Brazil and Surinam? A: FRENCH GUIANA
Q: Which country shares borders with Columbia and Costa Rica? A: PANAMA
Q: The Russian port of Astrakhan lies on the delta of which major river? A: VOLGA
Q: In meteorology, what term is used to describe a warm front which has been quickly overtaken by a cold front, moving rapidly around a low pressure centre? A: OCCLUDED FRONT
Q: How was the Dutch dancer and courtesan Margaretha MacLeod, better known? A: MATA HARI
Q: The island of Trinidad lies opposite the delta of which major South American river? A: ORINOCO
Q: What was the popular name fro the American blues singer, composer and guitarist, McKinley Morganfield? A: 'MUDDY WATERS'
Q: What word describes a system of winds that blow around an area of high pressure? A: ANTICYCLONE
Q: Hollesley Bay and Aldeburgh are coastal features of which English county? A: SUFFOLK
Q: How many bonus points does a 'Scrabble' player receive when playing all seven of his tiles in a single turn A: 50
Q: If a solution of common salt is electrolysed, chlorine gas is released at one electrode but which metal accumulates at the other? A: SODIUM
Q: The crystals of which element when heated, give off a violet vapour with an irritating odour, similar to chlorine? A: IODINE
Q: On the coast of which English county are Pegwell Bay and St. Margaret's Bay to be found? A: KENT
Q: In 'Arthurian' legend, who was the father of Sir Galahad? A: SIR LANCELOT
Q: The ancient region of Mesopotamia is now part of which middle eatern country? A: IRAQ
Q: Which is the lowest card used in the game of Bezique? A: SEVEN
Q: """On a dark desert highway, cool wind in my hair"", are the opening lines of which pop song?" A: 'HOTEL CALIFORNIA'
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Do Anderoids Dream Of Electric Sheep', the basis of the screenplay for the film 'Blade Runner'? A: PHILIP K. DICK
Q: England cricketer Andrew Caddick was born in which country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Although the names of the four Scottish 'Quarter Days' have remained the same, on which date of the respective months do they fall? A: 28th
Q: Which city is served by Lester B. Pearson Airport? A: TORONTO
Q: Sometimes known as the 'White Whale', Delphinapterus Leucas belongs to the bottle-nosed family of whales, how is it more generally known? A: BELUGA
Q: Native to the Mediterranean and violet in colour, what sort of marine creature is a 'Venus's Girdle'? A: JELLYFISH
Q: Which architect designed the 'Millenium Dome'? A: RICHARD ROGERS
Q: Which heavyweight boxer was known as the 'Cinderella Man'? A: JAMES J. BRADDOCK
Q: The 'Greene King brewery' is based in which English town or city? A: BURY ST. EDMUNDS
Q: Which car company produces the four-wheel-drive 'Vitara'? A: SUZUKI
Q: Which car company produces the four-wheel-drive Terrano? A: NISSAN
Q: "What was the name of the spacecraft in Stanley Kubrick's classic science-fiction film ""2001: A Space Odyssey""?" A: DISCOVERY
Q: How is Hanna Glawari described in the title of the operetta of her fictionalised life? A: 'THE MERRY WIDOW'
Q: 'Oscar' nominated actress Kate Hudson is the daughter of which actress? A: GOLDIE HAWN
Q: In which year did the London Evening News merge into the Evening Standard? A: 1980
Q: With which pop group do you associate Jo O'Meara and Rachel Stevens? A: S CLUB (7)
Q: Pedology is the science of what? A: SOILS
Q: The capitulation of Marshal Bazaine's force at Metz was the last critical action of which war? A: THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR
Q: "Whose 1923 essay ""Mr. Bennett and Mrs. Brown"" attacked the literary realism of Arnold Bennett?" A: VIRGINIA WOOLF
Q: Name the illusionist who played 'Russian Roulette' on television? A: DERREN BROWN
Q: Which geological period followed the 'Devonian Period' but preceded the 'Ordovician'? A: SILURIAN
Q: "What was the 'Asahi Shimbun', first produced 24th, September 1980, and advertised as ""untouched by human hand""?" A: A NEWSPAPER
Q: At which specific location could you see 'The Brazen Serpent', 'The Punishment Of Haman' and 'David Slaying Goliath'? A: ON THE CEILING OF THE SISTINE CHAPEL
Q: R.V. Shepherd and H.J. Turpin invented which light sub- machine gun? A: STEN GUN
Q: Who played the part of 'Alfie' in the 1975 film 'Alfie Darling'? A: ALAN PRICE
Q: In March 2003, which 29 year-old became the youngest ever recipient of the Best Actor 'Oscar'? A: ADRIEN BRODY
Q: Who was voted FIFA 'Footballer Of The Year' 2003? A: ZENEDINE ZIDANE
Q: In which year did the 'Torrey Canyon' sink, Donald Campbell was killed and the 'Colonels' seized power in Greece? A: 1967
Q: "In which year was the 'Great Train Robbery' the 'Profumo Affair' hit the headlines and Martin Luther King made his ""I have a dream"" speech?" A: 1963
Q: Picasso's 'Still Life With Chair Caning' in which strips of oilcloth in imitation of chair caning are stuck onto the surface of the work, is an example of which artistic technique? A: ASSEMBLAGE
Q: Which architect designed the Sydney Opera House? A: JORN UTSON
Q: What historically were hatpieces, leopards, cartwheels and unicorns? A: COINS
Q: Who played 'Mister Wilson' in the 1994 film 'Denis'? A: WALTER MATHAU
Q: What was the name of the Army Major found guilty of cheating his way to £1million on the TV show 'Who Wants To Be A Millionaire'? A: CHARLES INGRAM
Q: What is the smallest bird in the world? A: THE BEE HUMMINGBIRD
Q: Which actor sped off with Jack Lemmon in a speedboat at the end of the film 'Some Like It Hot'? A: JOE E BROWN
Q: What was Buddy Holly's real first name? A: CHARLES (Hardin Holley)
Q: On 29th July 2000, Martin Dugard of Eastbourne became the first-ever winner of the British Grand Prix - in which sport? A: SPEEDWAY
Q: Which former pop singer is now known as Yusuf Islam? A: CAT STEVENS
Q: 'The Nore' is a sandbank at the mouth of which British river? A: THAMES
Q: With which English king did Pope Clement VII have a dispute? A: HENRY VIII
Q: Bamako is the capital of which country? A: MALI
Q: What is the astronomical terminology fro 3.26 light years? A: PARSEC
Q: Both Luton Town and Stockport County football clubs have the same nickname. What is it? A: 'THE HATTERS'
Q: In which month is United Nations day? A: OCTOBER
Q: With virtually the same tonnage and outline, in World War II, what was the sister ship of the Bismark? A: TIRPITZ
Q: What is the name of the grain or potato based Scandinavian spirit flavoured with Caraway seeds? A: AQUAVIT
Q: Which creature may be described as a lizard, with adhesive toes allowing it to walk up walls and across ceilings? A: GECKO
Q: What will be the middle two numbers of a car registered in September 2010? A: 60
Q: Who played the part of 'Neville Hope' in 'Auf Wiedershen, Pet'? A: KEVIN WHATELY
Q: Which iconic English actor,born in 1910, died in 1983 of Motor Neurone Disisease? A: DAVID NIVEN
Q: Who surrendered formally to the British onboard HMSBellerephon? A: NAPOLEON
Q: In which book was Britain called 'Airstrip One'? A: '1984'
Q: What is the psychological term for the process of bonding that sometimes occurs between prisoners and their captors? A: 'STOCKHOLM SYNDROME'
Q: AJS motorcycles were produced identically under which otherbrand name? A: MATCHLESS
Q: Which sign of the zodiac represents the period May 21st. to June 21st.? A: GEMINI
Q: What is the name of Britain's largest National Park? A: CAIRNGORMS
Q: What was Roy Thinnes' character name in 'The Invaders'? A: 'DAVID VINCENT'
Q: In 1975 lord Lucan was convicted in his absence of murdering his children's nanny. What was her name? A: SANDRA RIVETT
Q: Who was on the throne immediately before Queen Victoria? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: Two books of the Bible list the Ten Commandments.Exodus is one, which is the other? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: On which motorway is 'Clacket Lane Service Station'? A: M25
Q: Which animal is mentioned most frequently in the Bible? A: SHEEP
Q: "From which Shakespeare play doesthe quotation, ""Lord what fools these mortals be"", come?" A: 'A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM'
Q: "Who wrote ""East is east and west is west and never the twain shall meet""" A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: 'Marcello', 'Musetta', and 'Mimi' are characters in which opera? A: 'LA BOHEME'
Q: What was the name of Scott's ship on his ill- fated Antarctic expedition of 1910-12? A: TERRA NOVA
Q: What position is currently held by Peter Maxwell Davies? A: MASTER OF THE QUEEN'S MUSIC
Q: In the TV comedy 'The Detectives', who played the part of 'Superintendent Frank Cottam'? A: GEORGE SEWELL
Q: Which body is on average, 150 million kilometres from the Sun? A: THE EARTH
Q: Niamey is the capital of which country? A: NIGER
Q: In which month is Orangeman's Day? A: JULY
Q: What is the name of the container used to hold either 108 gallons of beer or 126 gallons of wine? A: BUTT
Q: What was the name of the horse in Orewell's 'Animal Farm'? A: 'BOXER'
Q: The junction of the A66 and the A1 is colloquially known as what? A: 'SCOTCH CORNER'
Q: In which conflict was the 'Battle of Solferino' in 1859? A: ITALIAN WAR OF INDEPENDENCE
Q: Which Russian painter, who died in 1944, founded the 'Blau Reiter' group? A: KANDINSKY
Q: Which instrument used to be called a 'Sackbut'? A: TROMBONE
Q: Who wrote the music for the ballet 'Petrushka'? A: STRAVINSKY
Q: Who wrote 'The Carpet People', 'Hogfather', 'The Last Continent', 'Men At Arms', and 'Mote'? A: TERRY PRATCHETT
Q: Richmond in Yorkshire, lies on which river? A: SWALE
Q: Which English soccer team are nicknamed 'The Hornets'? A: WATFORD
Q: In the Falklands War, which ship was the flagship of the Royal Navy Task Force? A: H.M.S. HERMES
Q: Catherine Zeta Jones has a million pound per year contract with which cosmetics company? A: ELIZABETH ARDEN
Q: Into which river did a US airliner crash land in January of this year (2009)? A: HUDSON
Q: What was the former name of 'The Spice Girls'? A: 'TOUCH'
Q: What is the name of the mouthpiece on most woodwind instruments? A: REED
Q: Which element-atomic number 14-is the second most abundant element in the earth's crust? A: SILICON
Q: What is the medical name for the lower jaw? A: MANDIBLE
Q: Which London museum occupies part of the old Bethlehem Royal Hospital? A: IMPERIAL WAR MUSEUM
Q: Who was the last World Heavyweight Boxing champion born in Great Britain? A: LENNOX LEWIS
Q: Which country is the world's largest producer of silver? A: MEXICO
Q: Which pop singer played the part of 'Pauline Mole' in 'The Secret Diary Of Adrian Mole'? A: LULU
Q: Which 'palace' is located in Muswell Hill, London? A: ALEXANDRA PALACE
Q: What is the name of the Spanish National Lottery? A: 'EL GORDO'
Q: What is the medical namefor hives, or nettle rash? A: URTICARIA
Q: Which English portrait painter, who lived from 1610 to 1646, succeeded Van Dyck as Court Painterto the exiled Charles II? A: WILLIAM DOBSON
Q: In America, which 'UP' is the largest freight railroad company? A: UNION PACIFIC
Q: Which 1954 film starring Ava Gardner and Humphrey Bogart, was about a Spanish dancer who becomes a Hollywood film star? A: 'THE BAREFOOT CONTESSA'
Q: Lee Marvin had a number one hit record with 'Wanderin' Star' in 1970, but which actor had a minor hit with the flipside - 'I Talk To The Trees'? A: CLINT EASTWOOD
Q: What is the name of Southampton FC's home ground? A: ST. MARY'S
Q: What is the alternative name of the Linden tree? A: LIME
Q: What type of bomber dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima in 1945? A: BOEING B-29 SUPERFORTRESS
Q: Which French realist painter, who lived from 1814 - 1875, specialised in peasant life? A: JEAN MILLET
Q: Which 1963 film starring Shirley Maclaine and Jack Lemmon was about a Paris policeman who falls in love with a prostitute, and becomes her minder? A: 'IRMA LA DOUCE'
Q: "Which politician said of Margaret Thatcher, ""She's the best man in England""?" A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: In which sphere was John Phillip Holland a pioneer? A: SUBMARINES
Q: 'Herod', 'John the Baptist' and 'Nawabath' are characters in which opera by Richard Strauss? A: 'SALOME'
Q: Murphy's stout originated in which city? A: CORK
Q: Medically, what is affected by Myositis? A: THE MUSCLES
Q: 'Adallo', 'Fenena' and 'Abigaillon' are characters in which opera by Verdi? A: 'NABUCCO'
Q: What is the better known name of the 'ERW' or 'Enhanced Radiation Weapon'? A: NEUTRON BOMB
Q: In which year did Princess Margaret die? A: 2002
Q: In Netball only two players can score a goal. One is Goal Shooter. Who is the other? A: GOAL ATTACK
Q: Which Cheshire constituency has been represented in Parliament by Neil Hamilton, Martin Bell and George Osbourne? A: TATTON
Q: In 'Coronation Street' which family has, over the years, included 'Valerie', 'Frank', 'Susan' and 'Peter'? A: 'BARLOW'
Q: Who was the leader of the Labour Party in Britain from 1980 to 1983? A: MICHAEL FOOT
Q: Whose first solo number one single was 'Careless Whisper'? A: GEORGE MICHAEL
Q: Which film, for which Carey Mulligan won a Best Actress BAFTA, is based on the memoirs of journalist Lynn Barber? A: 'AN EDUCATION'
Q: Which oratorio by Joseph Haydn takes place over seven days, is in three parts, with the third part set in the 'Garden of Eden'? A: (THE) CREATION
Q: Which musical that debuted in London in March is set in 'Phantasma', an attraction in Coney Island, New York? A: 'LOVE NEVER DIES'
Q: In which European city can you visit Tiergarten Schonbrunn (Schonbrunn Zoo)? A: VIENNA
Q: Who was the author of the 'Alan Quatermain' series and the 'Ayesha' series of novels, who was born on June 22nd. 1856? A: H RIDER HAGGARD
Q: Which of the Halogens, with the atomic number 17, is missing from - Flourine, Bromine, Iodine and Astatine? A: CHLORINE
Q: "In which Shakespeare comedy does 'Theseus' speak the opening line: ""Now fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour draws apace""?" A: 'A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM'
Q: In which English city can you catch a tram at stops called Leppings Lane, Fitzalan Square/Ponds Forge and Attercliffe? A: SHEFFIELD
Q: What colour is the live wire in an electrical plug? A: BROWN
Q: Which Yorkshireman is the longest serving male 'Blue Peter' presenter with over 12 years? A: JOHN NOAKES
Q: How are 'Jean de Dinteville' and 'Georges de Selve' referred to in the title of a 1553 Holbein painting? A: 'THE AMBASSADORS'
Q: "Which Shakespeare tragedy opens with a Prologue beginning: ""Two households, both alike in dignity. In fair Verona, where we lay our scene""?" A: 'ROMEO & JULIET
Q: Who was the President of A.C. Milan Football Club from 1986 to 2004? A: SILVIO BERLUSCONI
Q: Which of the alkali metals, with the atomic number 19 is missing from - Lithium, Sodium, Rubidium, Caesium and Francium? A: POTASSIUM
Q: Who painted the early sixteenth century triptych 'The Garden of Earthly Delights'? A: HIERONYMOUS BOSCH
Q: On which TV show was Judith Hann the longest serving presenter, with over 20 years? A: 'TOMORROW'S WORLD'
Q: Which instrument measures the electrical current in a circuit? A: AMMETER
Q: On which sport did 'Whispering Ted Lowe' commentate on TV? A: SNOOKER
Q: In which religious denomination does 'Aldersgate Day' celebrate the day (24/05/1738) when John Wesley experienced his conversion in a meeting room in Aldersgate Street, London? A: METHODISM
Q: In which Irish province are the counties of Cork, Waterford and Kerry? A: MUNSTER
Q: Who wrote 'Appley Dapply's Nursery Rhymes', published in 1917? A: BEATRIX POTTER
Q: In which 1956 film does Kirk Douglas play Vincent van Gogh? A: 'A LUST FOR LIFE'
Q: In which US state is the Monterey Bay Aquarium? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: Which German author, most famous for his anti-war novel 'All Quiet On The Western Front', was born on June 22nd. 1898? A: ERICH MARIA REMARQUE
Q: Who is the BBC Radio 2 commentator for the Eurovision Song Contest? A: KEN BRUCE
Q: Which BBC journalist was awarded the Golden Nymph Award at the Monte Carlo Festival in 1984 for his reports from Ethiopia? A: MICHAEL BUERK
Q: In which country was Daniel Libeskind, architect of the Jewish Museum in Berlin born? A: POLAND
Q: Who wrote the children's book 'Green Eggs And Ham', published in 1960? A: DR. SEUSS
Q: By what name do the Italians know the city of Florence? A: FIRENZE
Q: In Basketball, what is the term for the offence of carrying the ball for too many steps without dribbling? A: TRAVELLING
Q: Who was the leader of the Liberal Party in Britain from 1967 to 1976? A: JEREMY THORPE
Q: Whose first solo number one single was 'When You Say Nothing At All'? A: RONAN KEATING
Q: If the names of the 'Spice Girls' (eg ‘Baby Spice’) are arranged alphabetically, which is the last? A: 'SPORTY'
Q: Which is the third largest island in Italy after Sicily and Sardinia? A: ELBA
Q: "Which Salford born comedian and sausage maker used the catchphrase ""Right Monkey""?" A: AL READ
Q: What was the nickname of Ethiopian athlete Miruts Yifter? A: 'YIFTER THE SHIFTER'
Q: Which English king was married to Anne of Bohemia? A: RICHARD II
Q: Who directed the 1994 film 'Pulp Fiction'? A: QUENTIN TARANTINO
Q: Which town is the administrative centre of Derbyshire? A: MATLOCK
Q: In which city are the headquarters of the Fiat car company? A: TURIN
Q: Give the more common name for the plant, the Cranesbill? A: GERANIUM
Q: With which heavy metal pop group is Angus Young associated? A: 'AC/DC'
Q: Which of Shakespeare's plays is set in Ephesus? A: 'THE COMEDY OF ERRORS'
Q: With which heavy metal pop group is Rick Allen associated? A: 'DEF LEPPARD'
Q: What is the popular name for the plant Convallaria majalis? A: LILY OF THE VALLEY
Q: What is the capital of the Southern African country of Botswana? A: GABORONE
Q: '.uk' is the network identifier for the United Kingdom. Which country uses the identifier '.jp'? A: JAPAN
Q: Which all-girl group had a hit with the song 'Lost In Music'? A: 'SISTER SLEDGE'
Q: Which Conservative Party leader was once editor of the 'Church Times'? A: EDWARD HEATH
Q: What was the first name of politician Harold Macmillan? A: MAURICE
Q: Who wrote the song 'Where Have All The Flowers Gone'? A: PETE SEEGER
Q: Who directed the 2008 film 'Slumdog Millionaire'? A: DANNY BOYLE
Q: In which city are the headquarters of the Mercedes car company? A: STUTTGART
Q: Which actress, who died in 2002, played the part of 'Madame Edith Artois' in the TV series 'Allo, Allo'? A: CARMEN SILVERA
Q: If micro is the S.I. prefix for '10 to the power of minus 6', which is the prefix for '10 to the 6th'? A: MEGA
Q: In Egyptian mythology who was the 'Earth God'? A: GEB
Q: Which town was the birthplace of the actor David Garrick? A: LICHFIELD
Q: Which English king was married to Anne of Denmark? A: JAMES I
Q: What is added to Vermouth and Whisky to make a 'Manhattan' cocktail? A: DASH OF BITTERS
Q: Which town is the administrative centre of Northumberland? A: MORPETH
Q: Which Conservative Party chairman was the son of actress Dinah Sheridan? A: JEREMY HANLEY
Q: In which British city are the areas Sneiton, Lenton and Colwick? A: NOTTINGHAM
Q: '.uk' is the network identifier for the United Kingdom. Which country uses the identifier '.za'? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: In which constellation is the star Betelgeuse? A: ORION
Q: From which Disney animated picture does the song 'Circle Of Life' come? A: 'THE LION KING'
Q: Which group had a top ten hit with the song 'Why Does It Always Rain On Me'? A: 'TRAVIS'
Q: What is the theatre equivalent of the US film industry's 'Oscar'? A: THE 'TONY'
Q: Who did Arthur Bremer shoot and paralyse in an assassination attempt during the US Presidential Election of 1972? A: GEORGE WALLACE
Q: Which 'A-road' connects London to Holyhead? A: A5
Q: Which artist painted the picture, 'The Resurrection In Cookham Churchyard'? A: STANLEY SPENCER
Q: What is the more common name of Allspice, a member of the Myrtle family? A: PIMENTO
Q: What is the state capital of North Carolina, sharing its name with the surname of a famous historical figure? A: RALEIGH
Q: Which chain store founded by Terence Conran opened its first outlet in Chelsea in 1964? A: HABITAT
Q: In which sport were the Bregamasco brothers, Mirco and Mauro stalwarts for Italy? A: RUGBY UNION
Q: Who played the title role in the film 'Carry On, Columbus'? A: JIM DALE
Q: The 'Bushwackers' are/were a gang of football hooligans who supported which London club? A: MILLWALL
Q: What is the state capital of North Dakota sharing its name with the surname of a famous historical figure? A: BISMARK
Q: In the animated television cartoons, who was the partner of the Moose 'Bullwinkle'? A: 'ROCKY'
Q: Which year was called 'The Year Of Revolutions'? A: 1848
Q: "Can you identify the play by William Shakespeare in which the quote: ""If music be the food of love, play on"" appears?" A: 'TWELFTH NIGHT'
Q: What is the largest land-locked country in Africa? A: CHAD
Q: "Can you identify the play by William Shakespeare i which the quote; ""Cowards die many times before their deaths"" comes from?" A: 'JULIUS CAESAR'
Q: Aston Merrigold first entered the pop charts as a member of which boy band? A: 'JLS'
Q: What is the largest land-locked country in the world? A: KAZAKHSTAN.
Q: Nick Carter first entered the pop charts as a member of which boy band? A: 'BACKSTREET BOYS'
Q: In the animated television cartoons who was the partner of the 'Morocco Mole'? A: 'SECRET SQUIRREL'
Q: Which country issues a 10 Euro cents coin showing St. Stephens cathedral? A: AUSTRIA
Q: Which motor manufacturer produced the 'Scimitar' sports car? A: RELIANT
Q: Her Roman equivalent was Diana, but who was the Greek goddess who was the virgin goddess of hunting? A: ARTEMIS
Q: Which 'A-road' connects London and Portsmouth? A: A3
Q: The 'Inter City Firm' are/were a gang of football hooligans who supported which London club? A: WEST HAM
Q: In which country is Cape wrath? A: SCOTLAND
Q: What is the name of 'Gandalf's' horse in the 'Lord Of The Rings' trilogy? A: 'SHADOWFAX'
Q: In which year did actor Sid James die? A: 1976
Q: In which novel is 'Nick Carroway' the narrator? A: 'THE GREAT GATSBY'
Q: The first two speakers in which Shakespeare play are Aegeon, a merchant of Syracuse, and Solinus, Duke of Ephesus? A: The Comedy of Errors
Q: Who composed the orchestral work “Danse Macabre”? A: Camile Saint-Saens
Q: What was the first name of Rigsby in Rising Damp? A: Rupert
Q: For which party did Lan “Howling Laud” Hope receive 197 votes in the recent South Shields by-election? A: Monster Raving Loony Party
Q: Which English king was crowned king of France in 1431? A: Henry VI
Q: Which Nobel Prize has been won by William Ramsay, Fritz Haber and Otto Hahn? A: Chemistry
Q: The badge of West Bromwich Albion FC contains a bird together with the fruit and leaves of which shrub or small tree? A: Hawthorn
Q: Who directed the 2012 film Les Miserables? A: Tom Hooper
Q: The Isle of Axholme, now crossed by the M180 motorway, is part of which traditional English county? A: Lincolnshire
Q: Burl Ives played “Big Daddy” in the original 1955 Broadway cast of which play? A: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
Q: Which programme is broadcast on BBC Radio 4 between 10.45pm and 11.00pm each weekday evening? A: A Book at Bedtime
Q: Which co-founder of Hat-Trick Productions and a regular pundit on “They Think It’s All Over” wrote the 2008 book “Bearded Tit”? A: Rory McGrath
Q: What is the family name of the Dukes of Westminster? A: Grosvenor
Q: Which city is home to the Texans NFL team? A: Houston
Q: Harlech Castle was built during the reign of which king? A: Edward I
Q: Born in Delft in 1632, he painted small detailed domestic scenes notable for their treatment of various tones of daylight. Who was he? A: Jan Vermeer
Q: “A Voyage to the Country of the Houyhnhnms” is the fourth part of which literary work? A: Gulliver’s Travels
Q: Guy Garvey is the lead vocalist of which band? A: Elbow
Q: In which constellation is Rigel the brightest star? A: Orion
Q: Which US city is home to the Nationals MLB team? A: Washington DC
Q: Born in Paris in 1848, he pained many pictures of Polynesian life and died in the Marquesas Islands in 1903. Who was he? A: Paul Gaugin
Q: What is the name of the consumer affairs programme broadcast on Radio 4 from 12.04pm each weekday? A: You and Yours
Q: Into which body of water does the River Nene drain? A: The Wash
Q: Justin Timberlake has spent three weeks at number one this year with which song from the album “The 20/20 Experience”? A: Mirrors
Q: Who plays Madame Thenardier in the 2012 film Les Miserables? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: Charles VI, who ruled France from 1380 until his death in 1422, was a member of which royal house? A: Valois
Q: In which country were Nobel Prize winners Alan MacDiarmid, Maurice Wilkins and Ernest Rutherford born? A: New Zealand
Q: Which element is between Uranium and Plutonium in the Periodic Table? A: Neptunium
Q: What is the family name of the Duke of Northumberland? A: Percy
Q: Stefan Gordy, a son of the founder of Motown Records, is known by which colourful stage name? A: Redfoo
Q: The first two speakers in which Shakespeare play are a shipmaster and a boatswain? A: The Tempest
Q: Which is the main city in the New Zealand region of Canterbury? A: Christchurch
Q: Spain ceded Florida to Britain in the 1763 Treaty of Paris which ended which war? (The name by which it is known in Britain is required) A: Seven Years’ War
Q: The first by-election of this Parliament was in January 2011 in …….. East and Saddleworth. Which town completes the name of the constituency? A: Oldham
Q: In 1993, who was the last Australian golfer to win the Open Championship? A: Greg Norman
Q: In which African country does 100 pesetas equal 1 cedi? A: Ghana
Q: Whose statue in Merrion Square, Dublin is known to irreverent Dubliners as “The Fag on the Crag”? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Firenze (Florence) is the capital city of which Italian region? A: Tuscany
Q: Madeline Bray married which eponymous character in a Charles Dickens novel? A: Nicholas Nickleby
Q: Which vitamin is also known as Alpha Tocopherol? A: Vitamin E
Q: Who composed the songs “Old Folks at Home” and “Beautiful Dreamer”? A: Stephen Foster
Q: In which city was the actor and playwright Alan Bennett born? A: Leeds
Q: Which British coin, first minted in 1817, is still being minted and is still legal tender but nowadays is minted for the Indian market? A: Gold Sovereign
Q: If you ordered Homard in a French restaurant what shellfish would you be served? A: Lobster
Q: In which British city is Great Victoria Street station? A: Belfast
Q: Which former leader of the Lib Dems was the MP for Yeovil? A: Paddy Ashdown
Q: Which song was a top 40 hit for Soft Cell in 1981 and for Marilyn Manson in 2002? A: Tainted Love
Q: In which Isle of Wight town can you find the History of Smuggling Museum/ A: Ventnor
Q: Who said on splitting from Mick Jagger “I’m sure he can find someone else to be unfaithful to soon”? A: Jerry Hall
Q: Which song was a hit for both Nilsson in 1972 and Maria Carey in 1994? A: Without You
Q: The town of Leek is situated in which English county? A: Staffordshire
Q: Charlotte is the largest city in which US State? A: North Carolina
Q: Name the year – James Callaghan becomes PM; Britain and Iceland end the C od War; 21st Olympic Games begin in Montreal. A: 1976
Q: Which king did Henry Bolingbroke depose and then succees as Henry IV in 1399? A: Richard II
Q: In which British city is Preston Park railway station? A: Brighton
Q: What name is given to the smallest species of hummingbird, it being names after the insect it is closest in size to? A: Bee Hummingbird
Q: South Africa is the world’s largest producer of what? A: Gold
Q: What is the meaning of the word Cenotaph? A: Empty Tomb
Q: Which former leader of the Lib Dems is the MP for North East Fife? A: Menzies Campbell
Q: Known as “England’s Darling”, who led resistance against William the Conqueror on the isle of Ely in 1070? A: Hereward the Wake
Q: In “Far from the Madding Crowd” who became Bathsheba Everdene’s first Husband? A: Sergeant Troy
Q: Which European city was called Christiania frm 1624-1925? A: Oslo
Q: Which US actor was born Joe Yule Jr? A: Mickey Rooney
Q: Jacksonville is the largest city in which US state? A: Florida
Q: Who was King of Denmark in Shakespeare’s Hamlet? A: Claudius
Q: The town of Oswestry is in which English county? A: Shropshire
Q: Who starred in the TV series “Nice Guy Eddie” as a Liverpool private investigator? A: Ricky Tomlinson
Q: Name the year: Yasser Arafat new leader of the PLO; Dwight D Eisenhower dies; US Mariner 6 spacecraft launched to Mars. A: 1969
Q: What is thye common name of the plant Myosotis? A: Forget-me-not
Q: Which comedian and actor presents the Radio 4 programme “The Unbelievable Truth”? A: David Mitchell
Q: By what name is the city of Madras now known? A: Chennai
Q: Which is the third inhabited island in the group with Malta and Gozo? A: Comino
Q: What name is given to Canada’s newest territory, created in 1999 , offering some self-determination to the Inuit people? A: Nunavut
Q: Which former province of North West India has the tributaries Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Sutlej? A: Punjab
Q: Which book of the Old Testament, other than Exodus, includes the story of Moses receiving the Ten Commandments? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: Which striking building in the Manchester area has been designed by architect Daniel Libeskind? A: IMPERIAL WAR MUSEUM NORTH
Q: What is the capital of the French region of Picardy? A: AMIENS
Q: What is the motor-car international registration forIceland? A: IS
Q: Who played the roles of 'Verbal Klint' and 'Kaiser Sauzer'in the film 'The Usual Suspects'? A: KEVIN SPACEY
Q: What is produced by the Chorleywood Process? A: BREAD
Q: Who played the role of 'Jools' in the film 'Pulp Fiction'? A: SAMUEL L. JACKSON
Q: Who partnered Robert Palmer as lead vocalist in the 1970'sband 'Vinegar Joe'? A: ELKIE BROOKS
Q: Who played the part of 'Mrs. Onedin' in the TV series 'The Onedin Line'? A: ANNE STALLYBRASS
Q: What is the architectural term for the head or top of a column? A: CAPITAL
Q: In which American city do the 'Wizards' play Basketball? A: WASHINGTON
Q: Which country has the international car registration plate RCH? A: CHILE
Q: At which port on the British mainland would you land if you caught a ferry at Yarmouth, I.O.W.? A: LYMINGTON
Q: The airline 'Maersk Air' are based in which European city? A: DENMARK
Q: The quarter day Michaelmas occurs on which date of the year? A: 29th SEPTEMBER
Q: In which north of Englandcity is 'Hallam FM' radio station situated? A: SHEFFIELD
Q: 'Jonquil' is a shade of which colour? A: YELLOW
Q: Which Israeli Prime Minister was assassinated in Tel Aviv in 1995? A: YITZHAK RABIN
Q: What is the common name for the bird Sturnus vulgaris? A: STARLING
Q: What is the capital of the French region of Limousin? A: LIMOGES
Q: Who painted 'Rocky Mountains And Tired Indians', found in the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art, Edinburgh? A: DAVID HOCKNEY
Q: Who designed the 'Queen's House' at Greenwich, in the early 17th century? A: INIGO JONES
Q: After the 'Crucifixion' in whose tomb was Jesus buried? A: JOSEPH OF ARIMATHEA
Q: In Shakespeare's 'Two Gentlemen Of Verona', which character hasa servant called 'Speed'? A: 'VALENTINE'
Q: Who played the part of the cook 'Mrs Bridges', in the TV series 'Upstairs, Downstairs'? A: ANGELA BADDELEY
Q: After Jesus had fallen on his way to Calvary, who helped himcarry his cross? A: SIMON OF CYRENE
Q: In Einstein's e=mc ,what does the 'c' represent? A: THE SPEED OF LIGHT
Q: Ian Gillian and Dave Coverdale were both lead singers with which rock group? A: DEEP PURPLE
Q: Which oil tanker was wrecked off the Galapagos Islands in January 2001? A: 'JESSICA'
Q: In which country was the 1934 Football World Cup held? A: ITALY
Q: Which TV series grew from sketches on the Jasper Carrot shows, and featured Robert Powell? A: 'THE DETECTIVES'
Q: "Which Brazilian World Cup star was known as ""the little bird""?" A: GARRINCHA
Q: Which American General led the 'Confederate' armies in their early run of successes during the Civil War? A: 'STONEWALL' JACKSON.
Q: "Who was the actress who played the female equivalent of the ""bionic man""?" A: LINDSAY WAGNER
Q: In what year was the League Of Nations, formed? A: 1919
Q: What are, 'Oarweed', 'Furbelows' and 'Dabberlocks', types of? A: SEAWEED
Q: In which city might you make regular journeys on a 'Vaporetti'? A: VENICE
Q: In what year did the League Of Nations become the United Nations? A: 1945
Q: Which pop group's first album was 'Piper At The Gates Of Dawn'? A: PINK FLOYD
Q: In the Irish ballad, what did the 'Mountains of Mourne' do? A: """SWEEP DOWN TO THE SEA"""
Q: "Which opera house is found in New York's ""Lincoln Centre""?" A: METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE
Q: How many teeth are there in the first set of human 'milk' teeth? A: TWENTY
Q: What was US President Hoover's original profession? A: ENGINEER
Q: What was Cleo Laine's job when she first met Johnny Dankworth? A: APPRENTICE HAIRDRESSER
Q: Freddie Mercury, Brian May, Roger Taylor and who, made up the rock band 'Queen'? A: JOHN DEACON
Q: Which poet invited Maud into the garden? A: TENNYSON
Q: What is the name of the Kenyan game reserve set on the Serengeti Plain? A: MASAI MARA
Q: What age horses run in the American Triple Crown races? A: THREE YEAR OLDS
Q: The matriach of the Kennedy family died in January 1995 at the age of 104, what was her name? A: ROSE
Q: According to Irish mythology, which great warrior was responsible for the building of the 'Giant's Causeway' to link the shores of Scotland and Ireland? A: FINN McCOOL
Q: Which political group imposed dictatoriship in France after the revolution? A: JACOBINS
Q: What was the name of the Kennedy brother who died in World War II, when his plane exploded while on a mission? A: JOSEPH
Q: Who introduced the science of psychoanalysis, the investigation of the unconscious mind? A: SIEGMUND FREUD
Q: 'Gunfight At The OK Corral' in 1957, Burt Lancaster stars as 'Wyatt Earp'. Who stars as 'Doc Halliday'? A: KIRK DOUGLAS
Q: In the film 'Tombstone', Kurt Russell plays Wyatt Earp. Who plays 'Doc Halliday'? A: VAL KILMER
Q: O.J. Simpson's trial for murder monopolised the American media. What was his wife's name? A: NICOLE
Q: What name is given to the joint at which leaves are borne on a stem? A: NODE
Q: Which Polish astronomer put forward the theory that the earth revolved around the sun? A: COPERNICUS
Q: What name is generally given to unglazed porcelain? A: BISCUIT
Q: With what emblem is St. Peter usually portrayed? A: KEYS
Q: From which country does the domesticated cat 'The Ragdoll' originate? A: U.S.A
Q: Which American President broadcast 'Fireside Chats' to the American people in the 1930's? A: FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
Q: St. Peter was the leader of the 'Apostles', he was given this name by Jesus. What did it mean? A: THE ROCK
Q: From which country does 'Belleek' porcelain come? A: NORTHERN IRELAND
Q: Which East German ice skater was 1984 Olympic Champion and by 1990 had won four World Titles? A: KATARINA WITT
Q: What was the name of Christopher Columbus' flagship on his expedition of 1492? A: SANTA MARIA
Q: Which novelist when working for the Post Office was responsible for the introduction of the pillar box into Britain? A: ANTHONY TROLLOPE
Q: Tony Brittain and Nigel Havers played father and son doctors in which TV comedy series? A: 'DON'T WAIT UP'
Q: Which Spanish 'conquistador' burnt his fleet off the coast of Mexico in order to stop his men deserting? A: HERNANDO CORTEZ
Q: Which actor appeared in 'The Paradise Club' and 'Eastenders'? A: LESLIE GRANTHAM
Q: Which Southern African republic has the 'Metical' as its unit of currency? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: Which west African has the 'Cedi' as its unit of currency? A: GHANA
Q: Which family of birds, common throughout the world has the family name 'Strigidae'? A: OWLS
Q: """She who must be obeyed"" was the wife of 'Rumpole of the Bailey', but what was her Christian name?" A: HILDA
Q: Who along with Ernest Saunders was jointly convicted for their roles in the 'Guiness Scandal'? A: GERALD RONSON
Q: In Greek legend, a sculptor and craftsman constructed the 'Labyrinth' for Minos, who was he? A: DAEDALUS
Q: From which city did the Portuguese Royal Family rule Portugal between 1808 and 1821? A: RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil
Q: Who was Soviet Foreign Minister from 1957 to 1985? A: ANDREI GROMYKO
Q: Which Premier League side did Daniel Amokachi join after success in the 1994 World Cup for Nigeria? A: EVERTON
Q: Which former member of the 'Monty Python' team directed such films as 'Brazil' and 'The Fisher King'? A: TERRY GILLIAM
Q: What do 'Emetic' drugs induce? A: VOMITING
Q: What are the Ellice Islands now called? A: TUVALU
Q: Nyassaland is a country now known as what? A: MALAWI
Q: What condition is the drug Amitriptyline usually used to treat? A: DEPRESSION
Q: Who was the leader of the cult, who in 1993 committed mass suicide on a farm in Waco, Texas? A: DAVID KORESH
Q: Who designed the Guggenheim Museum in New York? A: FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT
Q: After winning £152,000 in 1961, whose autobiography was entitled 'Spend, Spend, Spend'? A: VIVIAN NICHOLSON
Q: Which motor manufacturer makes the 'Getz' model of car? A: HYUNDAI
Q: Which architect designed the Pompidou Centre in Paris? A: RICHARD ROGERS
Q: "What was the name of the 'Space-shuttle' from which the record breaking five hour ""space walk"" took place in 1993?" A: ENDEAVOR
Q: When Roy Jenkins became a Lord, where did he become Lord Jenkins of? A: HILLHEAD
Q: In 1995, which probe sent back the first major pictures of Jupiter? A: GALILEO
Q: Where was the first production line for 'Model T' Ford's set up? A: DETROIT
Q: Who presented the first edition of 'The Golden Shot'? A: JACKIE RAE
Q: In which English city was the first 'Model T' Ford produced outside the USA? A: MANCHESTER
Q: "In which film did Groucho Marx say, ""Either this man is" A: 'A DAY AT THE RACES'
Q: Who hosted 'What's My Line' when it was revived yet again in 1994? A: EMMA FORBES
Q: In which month did the attack on Pearl Harbour take place? A: DECEMBER
Q: Who was the only Prime Minister to die at 10 Downing Street? A: CAMPBELL BANNERMAN
Q: In which British city is the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery and Museum? A: SWANSEA
Q: Who was the last British Prime Minister to be removed from office whilst its party remained in office? A: MARGARET THATCHER
Q: In what month were the 'D-Day' landings executed? A: JUNE
Q: In which European city would you visit the Bardini and the Bargello Museums? A: FLORENCE
Q: Who was the first female artist to achieve 32 consecutive UK top ten hits? A: MADONNA
Q: What is the main language spoken in Mexico? A: SPANISH
Q: Whose drum can be seen at Buckland Abbey in Devon? A: FRANCIS DRAKE'S
Q: Which bandleader married both Ava Gardner and Lana Turner? A: ARTIE SHAW
Q: At which castle was Charles I imprisoned for fourteen months prior to his execution in 1649? A: CARISBROOKE CASTLE
Q: Which pop group had three consecutive Christmas number ones between 1996 and 1998? A: SPICE GIRLS
Q: Which British motor-racer was the first person to win both the Formula One and Grand Prix Motorcycle World Championships? A: JOHN SURTEES
Q: What is the traditional name for the disease Oedema, a swelling of any organ or tissue due to the accumulation of excess lymph fluid? A: DROPSY
Q: Which is the only group to have had four Christmas number ones? A: THE BEATLES
Q: In 1993, which racing driver became the first person to holdboth Formula One and Champ car titles simultaneously? A: NIGEL MANSELL
Q: During the Middle Ages, which disease was known as 'King's Evil'as it was thought that only the touch of the King could cure it? A: SCROFULA
Q: In which castle was Mary, Queen of Scots executed in 1587? A: FOTHERINGHAY CASTLE
Q: Which musical, that opened in 2003 and based on the novel by Gregory Maguire, is set in the fictional land of 'Oz'? A: 'WICKED'
Q: Which gas is the most chemically reactive to all the elements, to the extentthat water will burn in it? A: FLOURINE
Q: The Stephen Sondheim musical 'Sunday In The Park With George' was inspired by a painting by which French artist? A: GEORGES SEURAT
Q: Spheniscus mendiculusis the scientific name for the only Penguin to live in equatorial waters; by what name is it commonly known? A: GALAPAGOS PENGUIN
Q: Which metallic element has the highest melting point? A: TUNGSTEN
Q: Jaime Moreno, who briefly played for Middlesborough in 1995/96 season, is the only footballer from which country to have played in the Premier League? A: BOLIVIA
Q: Which island in the Inner Hebrides became a burial place for several kings of Scotland, Ireland and Norway? A: IONA
Q: Which archipelago of islands, west of the Outer Hebrides,is named after a non-existent saint? A: ST. KILDA
Q: The Italian, Guisepe Zanagara was executed for attempting to assassinate which American President? A: FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
Q: Which telecommunications comany takes its name from the Finnish word for 'Pine Marten'? A: NOKIA
Q: In the name of the computing company, for what do the letters 'HP' stand? A: HEWLETT-PACKARD
Q: The name of which manufacturer is taken from a Danish phrase meaning 'play well'? A: LEGO
Q: Which is the only regnal name to be used by British monarchs in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries? A: GEORGE
Q: As cartographers do not consider Chile to have an Atlantic coastline, which is the only South American country to have both Atlantic and Pacific coastlines? A: COLOMBIA
Q: Which popular British artist, active in Plymouth from the 1960's and famous for her paintings of fat people, died in May 2008? A: BERYL COOK
Q: In Norse mythology, what type of creatures were 'Toothgrinder' and 'Toothgnasher', who drew Thor's flying chariot? A: GOATS
Q: Which actor played Lord Alfred Douglas, opposite Stephen Fry asthe title character, in the 1997 film 'Wilde'? A: JUDE LAW
Q: Which comedian played Charlie Chaplin in Peter Bogdanovitch's 2001 film 'The Cat's Meow'? A: EDDIE IZZARD
Q: Which African country has coastlines on both the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean? A: MOROCCO
Q: Which ice hockey team defeated the 'Pittsburgh Penguins' to win their 11th Stanley Cup in June 2008? A: DETROIT RED WINGS
Q: Commonly used by the Zulu and Nguni tribes, what name is given to the short, broad-bladed spear that has a name deriving from the Berber word for 'spear'? A: ASSEGAI
Q: Which German author wrote the novels 'The Glass Bead Game' and 'Siddharta'? A: HERMAN HESSE
Q: Deriving from the Italian for 'trouse leg', what name is givento a folded pizza? A: CALZONE
Q: Who did William the Conqueror appoint as his first Archbishop of Canterbury in 1070? A: LANFRANC
Q: The American television series 'Angel' was a spin-off of which other hugely popular show? A: 'BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER'
Q: Which type of bread takes its name from the Italian for 'slipper'? A: CIABATTA
Q: The American television series 'The Lone Gunmen', which centred on a group of investigators who ran a conspiracy theory magazine, was a spin-off of which other succesful series? A: 'THE X-FILES'
Q: Which French author wrote the novels 'The Counterfeiters' and 'The Immoralist'? A: ANDRE GIDE
Q: Which famous fictional character was first introduced in the 1887 edition of 'Beeton's Christmas Annual'? A: 'SHERLOCK HOLMES'
Q: In which city in Texas is the fortress known as 'The Alamo', to be found? A: SAN ANTONIO
Q: Which famousfictional character was first introduced in a December 1927 edition of 'The Royal Magazine'? A: MISS(Jane)MARPLE
Q: In which Europeancity would you find the giant monument called 'The Atomium'? A: BRUSSELS
Q: Which village on the Wirral Penisula was built in 1888 to house workers at the Lever Brothers factory? A: PORT SUNLIGHT
Q: Which King of England was imprisoned by the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry VI, and held for a ransom of 150,000 marks? A: RICHARD I
Q: Andros, Naxos, and Syros all belong to which Greek island group? A: CYCLADES
Q: In which 1978 horror movie does the killer wear a William Shatner mask that has been painted white? A: 'HALLOWEEN'
Q: In which novel by George du Maurier does the character A: 'TRILBY'
Q: Which Channel 4 sit-com is set in the offices of 'Reynholm Industries', a fictitious British corporation in central London? A: 'THE IT CROWD'
Q: In which country did the 'Boxer Rebellion' occur? A: CHINA
Q: Which Scotch whisky is named after the man who started to sell it in his grocer's shop in Ayreshire in 1820? A: 'JOHNNIE WALKER'
Q: In which country did the 'Mau Mau Uprising' occur? A: KENYA
Q: The Dance Class and Absinthe are famous works by which painter? A: EDGAR DEGAS
Q: Which automotive engineer designed the Volkswagen 'Beetle'? A: FERDINAND PORSCHE
Q: 'Dr. Robotnik' and 'Knuckles the Echidna' are characters in which video game series? A: 'SONIC THE HEDGEHOG'
Q: What was the title of Harper Lee's only novel? A: 'TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD'
Q: What is the SI unit of electrical conductance? A: SIEMENS
Q: 'Johnny Cage' and 'Sub-Zero' are characters in which video game series? A: 'MORTAL KOMBAT'
Q: What was the title of Oscar Wilde's only novel? A: 'THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY'
Q: Starring Christian Bale and released in 2009, what is the title of the fourth film in the 'Terminator' series? A: 'TERMINATOR SALVATION'
Q: According to the Bible, in which city in modern-day Turkey was Paul the Apostle born? A: TARSUS
Q: Matola and Beira are the second and third largest cities in which African country? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: Who is the oldest man ever to be elected President of the USA? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Which chemical element is named after the discoverer of X-rays? A: ROENTGENIUM
Q: In Greek mythology, Heracles' First Labour was to slay which creature? A: 'NEMEAN LION'
Q: Released in 2006, 'Why Won't You Give Me Your Love' was the first top ten hit for which group from Merseyside? A: THE ZUTONS
Q: Of the all time top ten scorers in Premier League history, three have played for Manchester United. Andy Cole, Dwight Yorke and who else? A: TEDDY SHERINGHAM
Q: Which chemical element is named after the inventor of Dynamite? A: NOBELIUM
Q: Which composer wrote the operas 'The Barber Of Seville' and 'William Tell'? A: GIOACHINO ROSSINI
Q: Which composer wrote the operas 'The Flying Dutchman' and 'Parsifal'? A: RICHARD WAGNER
Q: During the reign of which king did the 'Model Parliament' sit? A: EDWARD I
Q: Which horse won the 2009 Epsom Derby? A: 'SEA THE STARS'
Q: Which cat-sized carniverous marsupial used to be known as the 'native cat' but is now usually known by its Aboriginal name? A: QUOLL
Q: '21st. Century Break Down' was a 2009 number one hit album for which group? A: GREEN DAY
Q: Which battle of 10th October 732 AD saw Charles Martel lead the Franks to a decisive victory against the Moors? A: BATTLE OF TOURS or POITIERS
Q: What is the state capital of New South Wales? A: SYDNEY
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays do the characters 'Viola' and 'Malvolio' appear? A: 'TWELFTH NIGHT'
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays do the characters 'Ariel' and 'Prospero' appear? A: 'THE TEMPEST'
Q: 'West Ryder Pauper Lunatic Asylum' was a 2009 number one hit album for which group? A: KASABIAN
Q: In which organ of the body would you find the 'Islets of Langerhans'? A: PANCREAS
Q: In which town in Greater Manchester is the TV series 'Shameless' set? A: STRETFORD
Q: In which organ of the body would you find 'Bowman's Capsule'? A: KIDNEY
Q: Winning the US Masters in 2003, who was the last Canadian to win a golf 'Major'? A: MIKE WEIR
Q: Which is the only country that has a flag consisting of just one colour? A: LIBYA
Q: 'Alderbaran' is the brightest star in which constellation? A: TAURUS
Q: Named after the scene of the crime, what name is given to the Notorious murder of 1827 when Maria Marten was shot dead by her lover, William Corder, in Suffolk? A: 'RED BARN MURDER'
Q: Which film starring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton and Ben Affleck was the world's highest grossing film of 1998? A: 'ARMAGEDDON'
Q: Named after a nickname given to the victim, what name is given to the unsolved murder of American waitress Elizabeth Short in Leimert Park, Los Angeles in 1947? A: 'BLACK DAHLIA MURDER'
Q: Which British Prime Minister later became the Earl of Stockton? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: Which organisation was founded by the Reverend Chad Varah? A: SAMARITANS
Q: In which city are the headquarters of UNESCO? A: PARIS
Q: What was the name of William Shakespeare's only son? A: HAMNET
Q: What does the Saffir-Simpson Scale measure? A: HURRICANES
Q: 'Pilot', 'Melon' and 'Strapped-Toothed' are types of which sea creature? A: WHALE
Q: Which cartoon character first appeared on screen in 'The Wise Little Hen' in 1934 and later in the 'Oscar' winning cartoon 'Der Fuhrer's Face' in 1942? A: 'DONALD DUCK'
Q: On which Dutch river does Amsterdam stand? A: AMSTEL
Q: What was the title of singer/songwriter Don McLean's first UK number one? A: 'VINCENT'
Q: What was the name of the mini skirted cartoon character created in 1915, who first appeared on film in 'Dizzy Dishes' in 1930? A: 'BETTY BOOP'
Q: Which architect designed the Imperial War Museum North at Salford Quays? A: DANIEL LIEBESKIND
Q: Which philosopher propounded the idea of 'Utilitarianism', later taken up by John Stuart Mill? A: JEREMY BENTHAM
Q: What is the official language of Guinea-Bissau? A: PORTUGUESE
Q: Which was the 'Spice Girls' first single as a quartet? A: 'VIVA FOREVER'
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of wisdom? A: MINERVA
Q: What language is spoken in Surinam in South America? A: DUTCH
Q: Who was the Conservative Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1895 to 1902? A: MARQUIS OF SALISBURY
Q: By what name is Hansen's Disease better known? A: LEPROSY
Q: Who won the 'Oscar' for Best Actress in the 1950's film 'Born Yesterday'? A: JUDY HOLLIDAY
Q: There are three colours on the flag of Madagascar, red, white and which other colour? A: GREEN
Q: Which sea area covers the north coast of Ireland? A: 'MALIN'
Q: 'Pallid', 'Brown' and 'Bumblebee' are species of which mammal? A: BAT
Q: Which philosopher and economist wrote 'The Wealth Of Nations'? A: ADAM SMITH
Q: What in Norse mythology, is the name of the rainbow bridge that connects 'Asgard' to 'Midgard'? A: 'BIFROST'
Q: How are the comedians Paul and Barry Elliot better known? A: 'THE CHUCKLE BROTHERS'
Q: What was the nationality of Capablanca, the world chess champion 1921-27? A: CUBAN
Q: On which holiday island is Kolossi Castle built by the Knights Templar in the 13th century? A: CYPRUS
Q: Which common flower of the Carnation family is also known as 'catch-fly'? A: CAMPION
Q: Who was the female winner of the 2002 London Marathon? A: PAULA RADCLIFFE
Q: There are three colours on the flag of the Yemen, red, white and which other colour? A: BLACK
Q: Which is the only team that has never been relegated from the top tier (Premier or old First Division) of English football? A: WIGAN ATHLETIC.
Q: What is the state capital of Virginia? A: RICHMOND
Q: What is the motor-car international identification for Iceland? A: IS
Q: Who wrote the 1973 Booker Prize winning novel 'The Siege of Krishnapur'? A: J.G. FARRELL
Q: Who created the character 'Walter Mitty'? A: JAMES THURBER
Q: Kevin Whately plays the title role in the television series 'Lewis', who plays his Sergeant? A: LAURENCE FOX
Q: In which year was HRH Prince Charles invested as Prince of Wales? A: 1969
Q: Which Irish born writer wrote 'A Woman Of No Importance'? A: OSCAR WILDE
Q: Who was the first 'Inquisitor-General' of Spain? A: TORQUEMADA
Q: The 'Dulcimer' is a forerunner of which musical instrument? A: PIANO
Q: Singultus is the medical name for which minor complaint? A: HICCOUGHS
Q: According to the Bible, who donated his own tomb for the burial of Jesus after the crucifixion? A: JOSEPH OF ARIMATHEA
Q: In which Austrian city was the composer Mozart born? A: SALZBURG
Q: In the Book of Genesis, to which land to the east of Eden was Cain banished after killing his brother Abel? A: LAND OF NOD
Q: Epistaxis is the medical name for which minor complaint? A: NOSEBLEED
Q: Which small wildcat, found in South and Central America and Mexico, is also known as the 'Dwarf Leopard' as its fur is said to resemble that of the larger cat? A: OCELOT
Q: Fought in the Pyrenees Mountains on the border between Spain and France, at which battle of 778 AD did the Basques defeat the forces of Roland, commander of the rear guard of Charlemagne's army? A: BATTLE OF RONCEVAUX PASS
Q: Which small wildcat, native to Central and South America, is sometimes known as the 'Tree Ocelot' because of its skill in climbing? A: MARGAY
Q: In the TV show 'South Park', the boys' classmate 'Leopold Stotch', often the butt of many jokes and pranks, is better known by what one word nickname? A: 'BUTTERS'
Q: Kasimir Malevich is the best known painter from which Russian artistic school that was founded in 1915 and which focused on fundamental geometric forms? A: SUPREMATISM
Q: In 1999, which became the newest of the territories of Canada when it was officially separated from the vast Northern Territories? A: NUNAVUT
Q: In June 2011, Ayman al-Zawahiri was appointed as the new leader of which organisation? A: AL-QAEDA
Q: Geoffrey Rush won an Academy Award for his portrayal of which Australian pianist in the 1996 film 'Shine'? A: DAVID HELFGOTT
Q: In 2000, the International Hydrographic Organisation created Earth's fifth ocean from southern portions of the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. Which ocean? A: SOUTHERN OCEAN
Q: Winning the US Open in 2006, who was the last Australian to win a Golf 'major'? A: GEOFF OGILVY
Q: Who was the founder of the People's Temple church, 914 of whose members committed suicide in the jungle of Guyana in 1978? A: JIM JONES
Q: Published in 1895, which was Thomas Hardy's first novel? A: 'JUDE THE OBSCURE'
Q: Published in 1939, what was the title of James Joyce's final novel? A: 'FINNEGAN'S WAKE'
