Q: What landmark was built for the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle? A: The Space Needle
Q: What is Cartman's first name? A: Eric
Q: Morrissey was the lead singer of what band? A: The Smiths
Q: Who does the Lorax speak for? A: The Trees
Q: What is the word for a corpse used for medical or scientific research? A: Cadaver
Q: What “live free or die” state has the lowest rate of seat belt use in the US? A: New Hampshire
Q: What Las Vegas hotel is shaped like an Egyptian pyramid? A: The Luxor
Q: Dungeness, King, and Spider are types of what? A: Crabs
Q: What is the fastest bird on land? A: Ostrich
Q: "Who orders martinis ""shaken, not stirred""?" A: James Bond
Q: "What is the subject of Al Gore's book ""An Inconvenient Truth""?" A: Global Warming
Q: What type of animal ate Lindy Chamberlain's baby, in the Australian outback? A: a Dingo
Q: "Who played the young version of Vito Corleone in ""The Godfather Part II""?" A: Robert De Niro
Q: What type of droid was C-3PO? A: a Protocol Droid
Q: What is the name for the second full moon in a calendar month? A: Blue Moon
Q: A sousaphone is a marching version of what instrument? A: Tuba
Q: "What pop group is sometimes abbreviated as ""1D""?" A: One Direction
Q: What is either a type of fragrance or a city in Germany? A: Cologne
Q: What is made from sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter? A: Gunpowder
Q: Which country's royal family includes Prince Rainier and Grace Kelly? A: Monaco's
Q: Which U.S. President had the longest term? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: What is the easternmost national capital in the Americas? A: Brasilia
Q: What is the most valuable publicly-traded company in the world? A: Apple
Q: What is the common description of the term rhinoplasty? A: Nose Job
Q: Who was Van Helsing's archenemy? A: Count Dracula
Q: What is the Emerald Isle? A: Ireland
Q: What is at the bottom of the ocean's food chain? A: Plankton
Q: "Whose ""family"" was Squeaky Fromme a part of?" A: Charles Manson's
Q: Who is the most famous person with the first name Orenthal? A: O.J. Simpson
Q: In what city did Anne Frank hide from the Nazis? A: Amsterdam
Q: How many years are commemorated by a sesquicentennial? A: 150
Q: What is the currency of Germany? A: The Euro
Q: What is the title of the first Rambo movie? A: First Blood
Q: Who famously posed for paintings with his hand tucked into his jacket? A: Napoleon
Q: The animal Megalodon went extinct 2.6 million years ago. What type of animal was it? A: a Shark
Q: What divides in two in a process called mitosis? A: Cells
Q: "What ""logy"" is the study of animals?" A: Zoology
Q: What country's main island is Honshu? A: Japan
Q: Who was the first murder victim in the Bible? A: Abel
Q: What is the biggest city in New Zealand? A: Auckland
Q: What does the U.S. government famously store at Fort Knox? A: Gold
Q: Who did Eva Braun marry on April 29, 1945? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who is considered the father of psychoanalysis? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: "What musician is known as ""The Boss”?" A: Bruce Springsteen
Q: In what video game did you battle Glass Joe, Bald Bull, and others before finally facing Mike Tyson? A: Punch-Out!!
Q: What was the name of the first Indiana Jones movie? A: Raiders of the Lost Ark
Q: What instrument did Sherlock Holmes play? A: Violin
Q: What plant do pepitas come from? A: Pumpkins
Q: "What ""valley"" is home to many tech companies including Apple, Google, and Facebook?" A: Silicon
Q: "What sport was featured in the movie ""Invictus""?" A: Rugby Union
Q: What newspaper does Clark Kent work for? A: The Daily Planet
Q: What is both a breed of cattle and a stereotypical Scottish first name? A: Angus
Q: "What Australian ""dame"" is actually a man?" A: Dame Edna
Q: What measurement is half of the diameter of a circle? A: Radius
Q: What is the main ingredient in pesto? A: Basil
Q: What beverage did the British Navy stop giving out with rations in 1970? A: Rum
Q: What country was formerly called the Dutch East Indies? A: Indonesia
Q: If George W. Bush were to have been impeached (and convicted), who would have become President? A: Dick Cheney
Q: In addition to New York, London and Paris, what city is considered a “fashion capital”? A: Milan
Q: "What actor was the voice of Woody in ""Toy Story""?" A: Tom Hanks
Q: In what modern-day country did the Battle of Gallipoli take place? A: Turkey
Q: What port city was connected to Manchester by the world's first railroad? A: Liverpool
Q: What is the world's southernmost national capital? A: Wellington
Q: "What singer was called ""The Chairman of the Board""?" A: Frank Sinatra
Q: Hatha, Bikram, and Iyengar are forms of what? A: Yoga
Q: What is Hinduism's holiest river? A: Ganges
Q: Who ate porridge that was too hot, too cold, and just right? A: Goldilocks
Q: Where would you find the “Great Red Spot”? A: Jupiter
Q: What does an oenophile love? A: Wine
Q: What European country did not join the United Nations until 2002? A: Switzerland
Q: What popular spread is made of hazelnut, milk, and a hint of cocoa? A: Nutella
Q: Who was nicknamed “The Maid of Orléans”? A: Joan of Arc
Q: What is the most populous city in Australia? A: Sydney
Q: What still-running TV show did Lorne Michaels create in 1975? A: Saturday Night Live
Q: Who was Anakin Skywalker's wife? A: Padmé Amidala
Q: In Edgar Allan Poe's “The Raven”, what word does the raven say? A: Nevermore
Q: What US state has the most Cajuns? A: Louisiana
Q: To avoid bad luck, what should one throw over their left shoulder? A: Salt
Q: “A man a plan a canal Panama” is a famous example of what? A: Palindrome
Q: In what country would you find the city of Bruges? A: Belgium
Q: What were Calico Jack and Blackbeard? A: Pirates
Q: What, primarily, do giant pandas eat? A: Bamboo
Q: What comet passes near Earth every 76 years? A: Halley's Comet
Q: What country was formerly known as Ceylon? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea? A: The Suez Canal
Q: What is the least populated borough of New York City? A: Staten Island
Q: Elton John's was written in honor of what actress? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What article of clothing is famously worn by Dracula and Superman? A: Cape
Q: Caviar is traditionally made from the eggs of what type of fish? A: Sturgeon
Q: What plant is used to make tequila? A: Blue Agave
Q: Who is the most famous ragtime composer? A: Scott Joplin
Q: Who was the first black Supreme Court justice? A: Thurgood Marshall
Q: Switzerland shares its Western border with what country? A: France
Q: 2, 3, 7, 11, and 19 are all examples of what type of number? A: Prime
Q: What actor starred as Harry Potter? A: Daniel Radcliffe
Q: What city was the first to be run as a democracy? A: Athens
Q: What animal's milk is mozzarella cheese traditionally made from? A: Water Buffalo
Q: What mythological figure inspires romantic love with his bow and arrow? A: Cupid
Q: "What actor based his character in ""Magic Mike"" off of his own experience as a stripper?" A: Channing Tatum
Q: What is the slowest of the four Olympic swimming strokes? A: Breaststroke
Q: What Dr. Seuss character hears a Who? A: Horton
Q: "What state do Harry & Lloyd travel to in the movie ""Dumb & Dumber""?" A: Colorado
Q: In what country did chess originate? A: India
Q: What is the largest island in the Caribbean? A: Cuba
Q: What is the longest running show on MTV? A: The Real World
Q: What is also known as an abattoir? A: Slaughterhouse
Q: "What company's logo is described as a ""swoosh""?" A: Nike
Q: "What Christmas character said ""God bless us, every one!""" A: Tiny Tim
Q: Who is Jennifer Aniston's ex-husband? A: Brad Pitt
Q: "What band performed ""Sympathy for the Devil""?" A: The Rolling Stones
Q: Who has won the most Daytona 500 races? A: Richard Petty
Q: Who was the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia? A: Robert E. Lee
Q: Besides champagne, what's in a mimosa? A: Orange Juice
Q: What was the nickname of Manfred von Richthofen, the top fighter ace in World War One? A: The Red Baron
Q: What disease killed approximately 40% of Europe's population in 1346-1353? A: Black Death
Q: What weapon was used in the Medieval joust? A: Lance
Q: What island was home to the Minoan Civilization? A: Crete
Q: Lorenzo the Magnificent was the ruler of what city-state? A: Florence
Q: What was the nickname of Queen Mary I of England? A: Bloody Mary
Q: The prefix gastro refers to what part of the human body? A: Stomach
Q: What is the largest type of venomous snake? A: King Cobra
Q: In the equation E = mc what does c represent? A: Speed of Light
Q: What bridge connects San Francisco and Marin County? A: Golden Gate Bridge
Q: What band is led by singer Axl Rose? A: Guns N' Roses
Q: For what disease did Jonas Salk invent a vaccine? A: Polio
Q: The human body is approximately 60% what? A: Water
Q: What was the Artful Dodger's profession? A: Pickpocket
Q: What was the name of the Hunchback of Notre Dame? A: Quasimodo
Q: What sea lies between Italy and the Balkans? A: Adriatic
Q: "In what U.S. state would you be most likely to find ""Shave Ice""?" A: Hawaii
Q: According to Biblical legend, what landed on Mt. Ararat? A: Noah's Ark
Q: Who gets stoned during Hajj? A: The Devil
Q: "In the ""Peanuts"" comic strip, who is Linus's sister?" A: Lucy
Q: What holiday is celebrated on July 14th in France? A: Bastille Day
Q: If something is soporific, what would it make you want to do? A: Sleep
Q: Who is Frodo's famous uncle? A: Bilbo
Q: "What is the English translation of the Yiddish word ""nosh""?" A: Snack
Q: What is the tallest building in England? A: The Shard
Q: Who is the leader of the Lost Boys? A: Peter Pan
Q: What did Steve Fossett use to travel around the world in 2002? A: Balloon
Q: The Great Barrier Reef lies off the shores of what country? A: Australia
Q: Among scuba divers, what is decompression sickness commonly known as? A: The Bends
Q: Who started the Protestant Reformation? A: Martin Luther
Q: According to Greek legend, who opened the box that contained all the world's troubles? A: Pandora
Q: "What celebrity said ""Duh, winning""?" A: Charlie Sheen
Q: Who is the Hindu destroyer god? A: Shiva
Q: Who is credited with inventing bifocals? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Starting in Hong Kong and digging directly through the center of the Earth, in what country would you emerge? A: Argentina
Q: What does Santa leave in the stockings of naughty children? A: Coal
Q: What word is the most common synonym of the word “corsair”? A: Pirate
Q: What ended at 11am on November 11, 1918? A: World War I
Q: What U.S. state is known as the Lone Star state? A: Texas
Q: What plant is commonly used for soothing a burn? A: Aloe Vera
Q: In what city did pizza originate? A: Naples
Q: What show features the TARDIS? A: Doctor Who
Q: What is Robin of Locksley better known as? A: Robin Hood
Q: What HBO fantasy show was the most-pirated show of 2012? A: Game of Thrones
Q: What endangered bird is the largest bird in North America? A: California Condor
Q: What type of berries are used to flavor gin? A: Juniper Berries
Q: Christian Grey is a character in what recent book trilogy? A: Fifty Shades
Q: Who are Athos, Porthos, and Aramis? A: The Three Musketeers
Q: A Fender Stratocaster is a type of what? A: Electric Guitar
Q: What do you call a dried grape? A: Raisin
Q: What American actress died on August 5, 1962, at age 36? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: In what sport might you see a Triple Axle? A: Figure Skating
Q: What Disney film features a princess named Merida? A: Brave
Q: "What musician was known as ""The Man in Black""?" A: Johnny Cash
Q: "Who composed ""The Marriage of Figaro""?" A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: Heirloom, Roma, and Pear are types of what? A: Tomato
Q: What is the name of Lord Grantham's estate? A: Downton Abbey
Q: What company is responsible for 20% of South Korea's GDP? A: Samsung
Q: What space telescope has been in orbit since 1990? A: Hubble
Q: "The song ""Gangnam Style"" was about a neighborhood in what city?" A: Seoul
Q: Who is the dog of Dick and Jane? A: Spot
Q: What is the English translation of the words playa, plage, and Strand? A: Beach
Q: "What arthropod's name literally means ""hundred feet""?" A: Centipede
Q: What is the main ingredient in marinara sauce? A: Tomatoes
Q: "What fictional character sings ""It's not easy being green""?" A: Kermit the Frog
Q: In what game show can you buy a vowel? A: Wheel of Fortune
Q: What unit of distance is approximately equal to 0.62 miles? A: Kilometer
Q: In what battle did Napoleon meet his final defeat? A: Battle of Waterloo
Q: In what part of the world would you be most likely to see the sport of caber tossing? A: Scotland
Q: What beat novel featured the character Dean Moriarty? A: On The Road
Q: What exam must be passed to practice law in the United States? A: Bar Exam
Q: What is the process of splitting atoms called? A: Fission
Q: What is another name for a woodchuck? A: Groundhog
Q: What comes in handlebar, toothbrush, and fu manchu varieties? A: Mustaches
Q: Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish celebration of what? A: New Year
Q: What type of triangle has sides of three different lengths? A: Scalene
Q: What country celebrates the holiday Tết? A: Vietnam
Q: Who is Winnie the Pooh's human friend? A: Christopher Robin
Q: Who was crowned as the British monarch in 1838? A: Queen Victoria
Q: What toxin was banned from household paints in the US in 1978? A: Lead
Q: What word refers to the neck hair of a lion or horse? A: Mane
Q: What do you call a piece of land that is surrounded on three sides by water? A: Peninsula
Q: What animal might you count if you can't sleep? A: Sheep
Q: What breed of dog is most commonly associated with fire stations? A: Dalmatian
Q: In what Olympic sport do players slide stones across a sheet of ice? A: Curling
Q: On what holiday is the Chicago River dyed green? A: St. Patrick's Day
Q: Who suggested a spoonful of sugar to help the medicine go down? A: Mary Poppins
Q: "What book is subtitled ""There and Back Again""?" A: The Hobbit
Q: According to P.T. Barnum, there's a what born every minute? A: Sucker
Q: What US state is made up entirely of islands? A: Hawaii
Q: What is the name for the colored part of the eye? A: Iris
Q: In what museum would you find the Mona Lisa? A: The Louvre
Q: "What 1962 novelty song was a ""graveyard smash""?" A: Monster Mash
Q: What does a seismologist study? A: Earthquakes
Q: What element comes between Uranium and Plutonium in the periodic table? A: Neptunium
Q: A gaggle is a group of what animal? A: Geese
Q: What food made Popeye strong? A: Spinach
Q: What spotted animal is known for its laughing? A: Hyena
Q: What was the pen name of Samuel Langhorne Clemens? A: Mark Twain
Q: What salt sea borders Jordan and is 433 meters below sea level? A: Dead Sea
Q: What religion did Germany consider banning in 2007? A: Scientology
Q: Under what plant is it customary to kiss during the Christmas season? A: Mistletoe
Q: What country did the band ABBA hail from? A: Sweden
Q: On what TV show would you see a van called the Mystery Machine? A: Scooby Doo
Q: What type of animal does mohair come from? A: Angora Goat
Q: What 1978 horror film introduced Jamie Lee Curtis to the big screen? A: Halloween
Q: "What singer had two hit songs that started with ""Like a""?" A: Madonna
Q: Aves is the taxonomical class of what type of animals? A: Birds
Q: What fictional character visited Lilliput and Brobdingnag? A: Lemuel Gulliver
Q: "In what country did the movie ""The Last King of Scotland"" take place?" A: Uganda
Q: What does a tanner make? A: Leather
Q: "Whose motto is ""Semper Fidelis""?" A: US Marine Corps
Q: Who is Posh Spice's husband? A: David Beckham
Q: What river flows through Paris? A: The Seine
Q: At Starbucks, what size is bigger than grande? A: Venti
Q: What is Superman's achilles heel? A: Kryptonite
Q: When Jack fell down and broke his crown, who came tumbling after? A: Jill
Q: Hatters were often “mad” because of exposure to what chemical element? A: Mercury
Q: Before the Euro, what was the name of Italy's currency? A: The Lira
Q: In what year did the California gold rush start? A: 1848
Q: What did King John sign in 1215? A: Magna Carta
Q: Besides Mexico and Canada, what country is geographically closest to the United States? A: Russia
Q: On the TV show , who played Mork? A: Robin Williams
Q: In the US, the title esquire is used to describe a person who practices what profession? A: Law
Q: What hurricane devastated south Florida in 1992? A: Andrew
Q: The star Betelgeuse is pronounced like what two English words? A: Beetle Juice
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin word “Rex”? A: King
Q: Ma Bell was the nickname of which company? A: AT&amp;T
Q: What is the biggest stadium in the United Kingdom? A: Wembley Stadium
Q: What is the word for a group of fish? A: School
Q: What river flows through Budapest and Vienna? A: Danube
Q: Where are the pearly gates said to be? A: Heaven
Q: Ethanol and isopropyl are types of what? A: Alcohol
Q: What mythical animal is a rabbit with antlers? A: Jackalope
Q: What type of spider can be identified by an hourglass-shaped mark on its abdomen? A: Black Widow
Q: What is Santa Claus called in France? A: Père Noël
Q: What country is home to 9 of the 10 most venomous types of snakes? A: Australia
Q: What is the most common first name in the world? A: Muhammad
Q: "In the term ""Valley Girl"", what valley is being referred to?" A: San Fernando
Q: What team has defeated the Washington Generals thousands of times? A: Harlem Globetrotters
Q: What Jewish mystical teachings are followed by Madonna? A: Kabbalah
Q: What is the best-selling Dutch beer? A: Heineken
Q: In Genesis, what type of animal returns to Noah's Ark carrying an olive leaf? A: Dove
Q: What is the term for an economic downturn that is more severe than a recession? A: Depression
Q: "Who painted ""Guernica"" and ""The Old Guitarist""?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What Canadian province is west of Alberta? A: British Columbia
Q: What is the word for a baby goat? A: Kid
Q: """I'm gonna make him an offer he can't refuse"" is a line from what movie?" A: The Godfather
Q: What city is connected to its northern neighbors by the Golden Gate Bridge? A: San Francisco
Q: If someone is in the Land of Nod, what are they doing? A: Sleeping
Q: Who was the lead singer of Queen? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: According to legend, what Lady rode naked through Coventry to protest high taxes? A: Lady Godiva
Q: What is Indiana Jones's real first name? A: Henry
Q: "What is the ""national pastime"" of the United States?" A: Baseball
Q: "What actress once had ""Billy Bob"" tattooed on her arm?" A: Angelina Jolie
Q: The Dardanelles separate two parts of what country? A: Turkey
Q: Who were the workers at Willy Wonka's chocolate factory? A: Oompa-Loompas
Q: What do yellow roses symbolize? A: Friendship
Q: What unit is used to measure the purity of gold? A: Carat
Q: "What cult leader was inspired by the Beatles' song ""Helter Skelter""?" A: Charles Manson
Q: What animal's foot is considered a good luck charm? A: Rabbit
Q: What fruit, native to southeast Asia, is considered to be the world's smelliest? A: Durian
Q: What force keeps the moon in orbit around Earth? A: Gravity
Q: Capellini, Tagliatelle and Ditalini are types of what? A: Pasta
Q: Where do basketball's Globetrotters supposedly hail from? A: Harlem
Q: What is the most famous trophy in the sport of yacht racing? A: America's Cup
Q: Who is the Duke of York? A: Prince Andrew
Q: "What activity do the terms ""pointe"" and ""grand jeté"" come from?" A: Ballet
Q: What is the only ancient wonder of the world that still exists? A: The Great Pyramid of Giza
Q: What animal is the offspring of a male donkey and female horse? A: Mule
Q: What country is divided between Greek and Turkish factions? A: Cyprus
Q: What type of animal is Punxsutawney Phil? A: Groundhog
Q: What is Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner's stage name? A: Sting
Q: What type of Islamic dress covers the woman's entire body, including mesh over the eyes? A: Burqa
Q: What childhood disease is a softening of bones due to malnutrition? A: Rickets
Q: Kate Hudson is the daughter of what famous actress? A: Goldie Hawn
Q: "Whose ""Decimal System"" is used to organize libraries?" A: Melvil Dewey
Q: What word describes an organism with an absence of pigment in the skin? A: Albino
Q: What is Decompression Sickness commonly called? A: The Bends
Q: In addition to sapphire, what gemstone is a variety of the mineral corundum? A: Ruby
Q: In ancient Greece, what would you find at Delphi? A: The Oracle
Q: In what modern-day country was Christopher Columbus born? A: Italy
Q: What 2013 Pixar movie is a prequel to Monsters Inc.? A: Monsters University
Q: What sea borders Turkey to the north? A: Black Sea
Q: What does a mnemonic device help you do? A: Remember
Q: What nautical unit of measurement is equal to six feet? A: Fathom
Q: In what city would you find the world's largest indoor ski slope? A: Dubai
Q: The devil is commonly depicted as having a lower body like what animal? A: Goat
Q: What is the common term for Myocardial Infarction? A: Heart Attack
Q: If someone commits matricide, who did they kill? A: Their Mother
Q: What can be purchased at a zapateria? A: Shoes
Q: What does the Jewish holiday Rosh Hashanah celebrate? A: New Year
Q: What TV series was created by Gene Roddenberry? A: Star Trek
Q: What is the name of the Princess Bride? A: Buttercup
Q: What South American city has the best-known Carnival celebration? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: What type of factory do Oompa Loompas work in? A: Chocolate
Q: What is the strongest bone in the human body? A: Femur
Q: What comic strip features characters named Jughead and Veronica? A: Archie
Q: What river is dammed by the Hoover Dam? A: Colorado River
Q: "What TV chef co-authored ""Mastering the Art of French Cooking""?" A: Julia Child
Q: What brass instrument uses a slide instead of valves? A: Trombone
Q: "What ""Wizard of Oz"" character wants a brain?" A: Scarecrow
Q: In what country did papyrus originate? A: Egypt
Q: What exam must be passed to practice law in the U.S.? A: Bar Exam
Q: "Whose ""locker"" is at the bottom of the sea?" A: Davy Jones
Q: What country inspired Starbucks - but has no Starbucks in it? A: Italy
Q: What did my true love give to me on twelfth day of Christmas? A: Twelve Drummers Drumming
Q: "What word is repeated before ""toil and trouble"" in ""Macbeth""?" A: Double
Q: What could Jack Sprat's wife not eat? A: Lean
Q: What word means to pay 10% of your earnings to a church? A: Tithe
Q: "What city is the ""Gateway"" to the American West?" A: St. Louis
Q: In addition to sine and cosine, what is the third main function of trigonometry? A: Tangent
Q: Traditionally, when a man bows a woman will do what? A: Curtsey
Q: What is the word for a Jewish candelabra? A: Menorah
Q: What is the last U.S. state, alphabetically? A: Wyoming
Q: "What country's unofficial national anthem is ""Waltzing Matilda""?" A: Australia
Q: What is Gaius Octavius better known as? A: Augustus
Q: "What rock band released the albums ""Sticky Fingers"" and ""Beggar's Banquet""?" A: The Rolling Stones
Q: What is the square root of 400,000,000? A: 20,000
Q: At what venue do the Rockettes perform? A: Radio City Music Hall
Q: What was the name of the Nazi secret police? A: Gestapo
Q: "What does the Latin term ""Annus Horribilis"" means in English?" A: Horrible Year
Q: What river does the Hoover Dam dam? A: Colorado River
Q: What river is spanned by the Tower Bridge? A: Thames
Q: What religious movement started in Jamaica in the 1930's? A: Rastafari
Q: What is the common term for alopecia? A: Baldness
Q: "What part of speech are the words, ""and"", ""or"", and ""but""?" A: Conjunction
Q: What type of animal is a water moccasin? A: Snake
Q: What Germanic language was once the most commonly-spoken language among European Jews? A: Yiddish
Q: What is the capital of Bavaria? A: Munich
Q: "What Norse god is known as a ""trickster god""?" A: Loki
Q: "On what type of building would you be most likely to find a ""flying buttress""?" A: Church
Q: What is the only Great Lake that doesn't border Canada? A: Lake Michigan
Q: What is either a popular sport or a type of insect? A: Cricket
Q: What type of collectible, featuring Honus Wagner, was sold for $2.8 million in 2007? A: Baseball Card
Q: What creature from Greek mythology has a single eye on the center of its forehead? A: Cyclops
Q: What does Santa give naughty children? A: Coal
Q: What organ is foie gras made from? A: Liver
Q: What is Judi Dench's title in the British honours system? A: Dame
Q: What landlocked African country is also a men's name in the English language? A: Chad
Q: What U.S. state is closest to London, geographically? A: Maine
Q: What city was captured at the end of the First Crusade in 1099? A: Jerusalem
Q: What island do lemurs come from? A: Madagascar
Q: It takes a village to what? A: Raise a Child
Q: "What movie coined the phrase ""there can be only one""?" A: Highlander
Q: What is the 2nd book of Bible? A: Exodus
Q: In what country would you be most likely to find a polder? A: Netherlands
Q: Jack fell down and broke his what? A: Crown
Q: What is the largest Caribbean Island? A: Cuba
Q: What horse won the 1973 Triple Crown? A: Secretariat
Q: What instrument did Ravi Shankar play? A: Sitar
Q: What was the Soviet version of the CIA? A: KGB
Q: What is the Japanese word for freshwater eel? A: Unagi
Q: What city-state did Hannibal fight for? A: Carthage
Q: What are french fries called in France? A: Frites
Q: Besides tennis, what sport can be played at Wimbledon's All England Club? A: Croquet
Q: "What singer says ""you're gonna hear me roar?""" A: Katy Perry
Q: What does a smoke jumper fight? A: Wildfires
Q: What type of animal is said to never forget? A: Elephant
Q: What country executes more people than any other? A: China
Q: "What type of doors did the DeLorean in ""Back to the Future"" have?" A: Gull-wing
Q: According to over 250,000 online petition signers, what singer should be deported to Canada? A: Justin Bieber
Q: Where does a troglodyte live? A: In a cave
Q: Who was the first head of the Church of England? A: Henry VIII
Q: Who have fought from the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli? A: U.S. Marines
Q: In golf, what is one stroke better than a birdie? A: Eagle
Q: What was stolen from the Louvre in 1911? A: The Mona Lisa
Q: What ancient people had priests known as druids? A: Celts
Q: What red-breasted bird is called the harbinger of spring? A: Robin
Q: "What type of sea creature can become ""bleached"" if the water temperatures is too high?" A: Coral
Q: What is the name of the pirate flag? A: Jolly Roger
Q: During what holiday is it customary to eat unleavened bread? A: Passover
Q: Besides grand pianos, what heavy object is often dropped on cartoon characters? A: Anvils
Q: What city hosted the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: Vancouver
Q: What popular singer is from the country of Barbados? A: Rihanna
Q: "What ""wonder drug"" was discovered by Alexander Fleming?" A: Penicillin
Q: If you cross the river Styx, where are you? A: Hades
Q: What is Japan's national sport? A: Sumo Wrestling
Q: "Who painted ""The Old Guitarist"" during his blue period?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Who lived by the sea in a land called Honah Lee? A: Puff the Magic Dragon
Q: What plant is used to make opium? A: Poppy
Q: "Who directed ""The Nightmare Before Christmas"" and ""Edward Scissorhands""?" A: Tim Burton
Q: What country heats most of its buildings with geothermal energy? A: Iceland
Q: What Frankish king was crowned emperor on Christmas day in 800 A.D.? A: Charlemagne
Q: What actress was on the cover of the first issue of Playboy? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: In musical terms, what is the opposite of forte? A: Piano
Q: What is the most popular breed of dog in the United States? A: Labrador Retriever
Q: What is the name of the Japanese art of growing miniature trees? A: Bonsai
Q: What game is commonly played to a score of 501? A: Darts
Q: Who has a brother named Mycroft? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What major Asian inland sea has almost entirely dried up? A: Aral Sea
Q: What Teamsters union leader mysteriously disappeared in 1975? A: Jimmy Hoffa
Q: "Who has a series of weight-loss tapes called ""Sweatin' to the Oldies""?" A: Richard Simmons
Q: What species interbred with humans in Europe and Asia before going extinct around 30,000 B.C.? A: Neanderthal
Q: In what country would you have found Robben Island prison? A: South Africa
Q: According to cliché, what is the mother of invention? A: Necessity
Q: What type of person is a southpaw? A: Left-Handed
Q: What language does the word algebra come from? A: Arabic
Q: What U.S. state has the highest average elevation at 6,800 feet? A: Colorado
Q: "In what sport might you experience a ""sticky wicket"" or a ""wicked googly""?" A: Cricket
Q: What city is Monte Carlo a part of? A: Monaco
Q: "Who said ""I'm strong to the finish, 'cause I eats me Spinach""?" A: Popeye
Q: Pont Neuf is the oldest bridge in Paris. What does its name mean? A: New Bridge
Q: What animal does Angora wool come from? A: Angora Rabbit
Q: What country's flag featured a hammer and a sickle? A: The Soviet Union
Q: Which English King fought in the Third Crusade? A: Richard I
Q: What type of animal makes royal jelly? A: Bees
Q: What element are computer chips typically made from? A: Silicon
Q: In 2012, Felix Baumgartner became the first person to break the sound barrier doing what? A: Skydiving
Q: What type of bird has eggs with the same color as Tiffany jewelry boxes? A: Robin
Q: What U.S. Army rank is one higher than Captain? A: Major
Q: What country banned the sale of chewing gum in 2004? A: Singapore
Q: "What French phrase means ""already seen""?" A: Déjà Vu
Q: What is the largest ethnic group in Germany (besides Germans)? A: Turks
Q: What country's most common family name is Nguyen? A: Vietnam
Q: What Greek titan was chained to a rock as punishment for giving fire to mankind? A: Prometheus
Q: Where would you find Capitoline and Palatine hills? A: Rome
Q: What word, staring with G, refers to a person who is not Jewish? A: Gentile
Q: What is the only Grand Slam tennis tournament to be played on clay courts? A: French Open
Q: "What program's 9th step is ""making amends""?" A: Alcoholics Anonymous
Q: "What ""quiet beach community"" just north of Los Angeles is a popular place for celebrity mansions?" A: Malibu
Q: What geologic period came after the Triassic? A: Jurassic
Q: If you have insomnia, what can't you do? A: Sleep
Q: If you land at John Lennon airport, what city are you in? A: Liverpool
Q: What industry's four capitals are New York, London, Paris and Milan? A: Fashion
Q: Whose quotations are collected into the best-selling book in Chinese history? A: Mao Zedong
Q: What food is made with lady fingers, coffee, mascarpone, and cocoa (among other ingredients)? A: Tiramisu
Q: What giant beast was kidnapped from Skull Island? A: King Kong
Q: What is the biggest retailer in the U.K.? A: Tesco
Q: What type of cancer kills more women than any other? A: Lung
Q: "What musical artist was known as ""The Purple One""?" A: Prince
Q: Among the countries in Asia, which one has the most Christians? A: Philippines
Q: What breed of dog is Scooby-Doo? A: Great Dane
Q: What chemical, often added to tap water, greatly reduces the rate of tooth decay? A: Fluoride
Q: "What product once featured a much-loathed ""assistant"" named Clippy?" A: Microsoft Office
Q: What country has about 4.5 million people, but 40 million sheep? A: New Zealand
Q: In 2014, a Boeing 777 mysteriously disappeared over the Indian Ocean. What country did it take off from? A: Malaysia
Q: "What U.S. grocery chain has been humorously referred to as ""Whole Paycheck""?" A: Whole Foods
Q: What word refers either to a sharp knife or a high heel? A: Stiletto
Q: What's the most popular sport in India? A: Cricket
Q: What does a kleptomaniac have a compulsion to do? A: Steal
Q: In what movie did Meryl Streep play a character inspired by Vogue editor Anna Wintour? A: The Devil Wears Prada
Q: In what country were the Smurfs invented? A: Belgium
Q: What term refers to dipping food into a communal pot of melted cheese? A: Fondue
Q: What type of alien is the Doctor from Doctor Who? A: Time Lord
Q: What animal most commonly appears on national flags? A: Eagle
Q: Who is (usually) pursued by Blinky, Inky, Pinky and Clyde? A: Pac-Man
Q: Who famously wore a pink Chanel suit and a pillbox hat? A: Jacqueline Kennedy
Q: "Who uses a replicator to order ""Earl Grey, hot""?" A: Captain Picard
Q: Who was Bonnie Parker's partner in crime? A: Clyde Barrow
Q: What country built a 1,000 mile fence to prevent the spread of rabbits? (it didn't work) A: Australia
Q: After corn, what is the most-planted crop in the United States? A: Soybeans
Q: What type of meat is used to make wiener schnitzel? A: Veal
Q: "What city's film industry is called ""Bollywood""?" A: Mumbai
Q: "What phase of the moon comes after ""waning crescent""?" A: New Moon
Q: What type of plant is molasses usually made from? A: Sugarcane
Q: What world leader once shot a tiger with a tranquilizer gun and also stole a Super Bowl ring? A: Vladimir Putin
Q: "What musical duo is featured on the soundtrack to the movie ""The Graduate""?" A: Simon & Garfunkel
Q: "Who wrote ""Around the World in Eighty Days"" and ""Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea""?" A: Jules Verne
Q: Which one of Dorothy's companions needed a brain? A: Scarecrow
Q: What Pacific island was visited by the HMS Bounty and Paul Gauguin? A: Tahiti
Q: What disease is characterized by the body's inability to produce or respond to insulin? A: Diabetes
Q: What great island sank into the Atlantic Ocean, according to Plato? A: Atlantis
Q: What is the only U.S. state whose name starts with the letter F? A: Florida
Q: What holiday comes the day after Halloween? A: All Saints' Day
Q: Which British overseas territory borders Spain? A: Gibraltar
Q: "In what country do people say ""Kanpai"" when making a toast?" A: Japan
Q: Who has appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated a record 50 times? A: Michael Jordan
Q: What is a percolator used to make? A: Coffee
Q: What potent greenhouse gas is produced by the digestive systems of cattle? A: Methane
Q: Who does a regicide kill? A: a King
Q: What is the main ingredient in miso? A: Soybeans
Q: "Who narrated ""March of the Penguins"" and ""The Shawshank Redemption""?" A: Morgan Freeman
Q: What country famously bans chewing gum? A: Singapore
Q: What day comes after Maundy Thursday? A: Good Friday
Q: What is the fruit of the ficus tree? A: Figs
Q: Besides Spanish, what language is commonly spoken in Barcelona? A: Catalan
Q: What American car company is named after a Serbian inventor? A: Tesla Motors
Q: What type of bird was used to carry battlefield messenges in WWI and WWII? A: Pigeons
Q: "If someone is eating ""longpig"" what type of flesh are they eating?" A: Human
Q: "What band recorded the song ""Where the Streets Have No Name""?" A: U2
Q: What internal organ produces insulin? A: Pancreas
Q: What country grows the most coffee beans? A: Brazil
Q: "What ""magic words"" did Ali Baba use to enter the den of the forty thieves?" A: Open Sesame
Q: What instant messaging service did Facebook purchase for $19 billion in 2014? A: WhatsApp
Q: What organization was led by Boutros Boutros-Ghali and Kofi Annan? A: United Nations
Q: What island did Captain Cook discover, before being killed by the people who already lived there? A: Hawaii
Q: What was famously built in 1961 and demolished in 1989? A: The Berlin Wall
Q: What company purchased the rights to the Star Wars franchise in 2012? A: Disney
Q: "What is another name for Rome's ""Flavian Amphitheatre""?" A: Colosseum
Q: What Australian soap opera has aired for since 1985 and once starred Kylie Minogue? A: Neighbours
Q: What aquatic animal can live to be 100 years old in the wild, but usually dies before age 30 in captivity? A: Orca
Q: If something is simian, what type of animal does it resemble? A: Ape
Q: What U.S. state is most strongly associated with Bourbon whiskey? A: Kentucky
Q: What insecticide caused a major reduction in bald eagle populations until 1972? A: DDT
Q: Who commanded the Millennium Falcon? A: Han Solo
Q: "Who famously designed the ""little black dress""?" A: Coco Chanel
Q: What is the name of both a U.S. state and a country in Asia? A: Georgia
Q: What creature lived at the center of the labyrinth? A: Minotaur
Q: What is the plural of court-martial? A: Courts-martial
Q: "What model/rapper had a #1 hit in 2014 with her song ""Fancy""?" A: Iggy Azalea
Q: What kooky movie character, portrayed by Johnny Depp, was skilled at topiary? A: Edward Scissorhands
Q: "What does the Indian word ""raja"" mean in English?" A: King
Q: "What ""be"" word refers to men's clothing that is custom-made by a tailor?" A: Bespoke
Q: On what would you find a field, motto, crest, and escutcheon? A: Coat of Arms
Q: What is the opposite of leeward? A: Windward
Q: What is the name for a clay monster of Jewish folklore? A: Golem
Q: What color, starting with M, is also referred to as fuchsia? A: Magenta
Q: What is T.E. Lawrence better known as? A: Lawrence of Arabia
Q: "What has been given the nickname ""La Ville-Lumière""?" A: Paris
Q: What is the last name of Donatella, Gianni, and Allegra ? A: Versace
Q: What is the highest mountain in Japan? A: Mount Fuji
Q: What well-known dance form originated in Argentina and Uruguay? A: Tango
Q: What is the tallest waterfall in the world? A: Angel Falls
Q: After which goddess is the the capital of Greece named? A: Athena
Q: On what island could dodo birds once be found? A: Mauritius
Q: What is the largest desert in Africa? A: Sahara
Q: What is the biggest island in the Caribbean? A: Cuba
Q: On what sea is the Russian city of Sochi located? A: Black Sea
Q: What is the name of the Dutch-speaking region of Belgium? A: Flanders
Q: By volume of water, what is the largest lake in Scotland? A: Loch Ness
Q: "What ""line"" divides the northern and southern U.S. states?" A: Mason–Dixon line
Q: What Italian region has its capital in Florence? A: Tuscany
Q: What country is often described as being shaped like a boot? A: Italy
Q: What canal connects the Red and Mediterranean Seas? A: Suez Canal
Q: What was the name of the highest caste in Indian society? A: Brahmin
Q: What country is a group of islands in the Persian Gulf? A: Bahrain
Q: Aotearoa is an alternative name for what country? A: New Zealand
Q: What musical instrument is considered to be a symbol of Ireland? A: Harp
Q: What is the world's biggest freshwater lake by volume? A: Lake Baikal
Q: What is the most populous country in Africa? A: Nigeria
Q: What city was capital of Russia until 1918? A: St. Petersburg
Q: Montreal is located on an island in what river? A: Saint Lawrence
Q: What's the world's second-tallest mountain? A: K2
Q: What's the tallest mountain that can be seen from Seattle? A: Mount Rainier
Q: Tsar and Kaiser were derivatives of what Roman title? A: Caesar
Q: Munich is located in what German state? A: Bavaria
Q: Besides the Caucasus, what mountain range forms the border of Europe and Asia? A: Ural Mountains
Q: What country is also known as Persia? A: Iran
Q: What is the world's most spoken language? A: Chinese (Mandarin)
Q: What is the biggest city on the island of Java? A: Jakarta
Q: What U.S. state has the smallest land area? A: Rhode Island
Q: Upon what river would you find the English town of Stratford? A: Avon
Q: What island in the Caribbean is divided between France and the Netherlands? A: St. Martin
Q: What city was famously built on Palatine, Capitoline, and five other hills? A: Rome
Q: What country was once known as East Pakistan? A: Bangladesh
Q: What English spa town was known to the Romans as Aquae Sulis? A: Bath
Q: What U.S. military base is located on the island of Cuba? A: Guantánamo Bay
Q: What was the city of Kolkata formerly called? A: Calcutta
Q: What is the largest landlocked country in Africa? A: Chad
Q: What is the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina? A: Sarajevo
Q: What country is bordered by Panama and Nicaragua? A: Costa Rica
Q: "What is a synonym of the word ""shire""?" A: County
Q: What is the biggest city on the Yangtze river? A: Shanghai
Q: "If an American is from the ""Bay Area"", what bay do they live nearby?" A: San Francisco Bay
Q: Besides Cape Town and Bloemfontein, what city is a capital of South Africa? A: Pretoria
Q: What country is the world's top oil exporter? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: What is the most populous urban area in Africa? A: Lagos
Q: What group of Caribbean islands includes St. Croix, St. Thomas, and Tortola? A: Virgin Islands
Q: In what city would you find the district of Pudong, home to the world's second tallest building? A: Shanghai
Q: What part of France is located on the continent of South America? A: French Guiana
Q: What river forms part of the border between France and Germany? A: Rhine
Q: What is Canada's largest, newest, and least populated territory? A: Nunavut
Q: What is the second largest urban area in Japan? A: Osaka
Q: In the Gulf War, what gulf is being referred to? A: Persian Gulf
Q: What group of islands are controlled by the United Kingdom, but claimed by Argentina? A: Falkland Islands
Q: "What peninsula is split in half by a ""demilitarized zone""?" A: Korea
Q: "The island of Majorca has a name that means ""larger island"". Which island is the ""smaller island""?" A: Minorca
Q: Among U.S. states, which has the highest percentage of elderly residents? A: Florida
Q: In what city would you find a gondola? A: Venice
Q: What is the tallest mountain in the United States? A: Mount McKinley
Q: What is the largest Russian city on the Pacific Ocean? A: Vladivostok
Q: What is the world's biggest river, by volume of water discharged? A: Amazon
Q: What country is nearest to the French territory of St. Pierre and Miquelon? A: Canada
Q: By land area, what is the largest country in Africa? A: Algeria
Q: What country's national bird is the kiwi? A: New Zealand
Q: What salty lake is located at 1,388 ft below sea level? A: Dead Sea
Q: What is Canada's largest island? A: Baffin Island
Q: What island is situated between Ireland and Great Britain? A: Isle of Man
Q: What is the smallest country? A: Vatican City
Q: What city did Brigham Young found in 1847? A: Salt Lake City
Q: Barcelona is the capital of what Spanish autonomous region? A: Catalonia
Q: What country is completely surrounded by South Africa? A: Lesotho
Q: What island is the southernmost point of the Florida Keys? A: Key West
Q: What is the world's first national park? A: Yellowstone
Q: In what city is the Brandenburg Gate located? A: Berlin
Q: In what country would you find the city of Limerick? A: Ireland
Q: What volcano exploded in 1883 with the force of 200 megatons of TNT? A: Krakatoa
Q: What is the world's least densely populated country? A: Mongolia
Q: Old Trafford stadium is located near what major city? A: Manchester
Q: Toronto is located on the shores of what lake? A: Lake Ontario
Q: What country is home to the Sherpas? A: Nepal
Q: Ceylon is the former name of what country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What is Africa's second longest river? A: Congo
Q: What city did Rome defeat in the Punic Wars? A: Carthage
Q: What national capital is also known as Krung Thep? A: Bangkok
Q: What French city is closest to Great Britain? A: Calais
Q: What was the biggest land empire of all time? A: Mongol Empire
Q: According to legend, what mountain was the home of the Greek gods? A: Mount Olympus
Q: What is the Southern Hemisphere's equivalent to the Tropic of Cancer? A: Tropic of Capricorn
Q: What volcano in Washinton state erupted in 1980, killing 57 people? A: Mount St. Helens
Q: What city was once known as Tenochtitlan? A: Mexico City
Q: In what country would you find a Gurkha soldier? A: Nepal
Q: What is the largest city in the Midlands region of England? A: Birmingham
Q: The Adirondack and Blue Ridge ranges are part of what larger mountain range? A: Appalachian
Q: Kardashian and Sarkisian are examples of common surnames from what language? A: Armenian
Q: What Egyptian city was once home to the world's greatest library? A: Alexandria
Q: In what mountain range is the Matterhorn located? A: Alps
Q: What is Hinduism's most sacred river? A: Ganges
Q: Lemurs are native to what island? A: Madagascar
Q: What is the most common religion in India? A: Hinduism
Q: What name is given to the northeast part of China? A: Manchuria
Q: What is a three-letter word for a professor from that university? A: Don
Q: What was the former name of Ho Chi Minh city? A: Saigon
Q: In what U.S. state does the Mississippi River begin? A: Minnesota
Q: What is the official residence of the Russian President? A: The Kremlin
Q: Every year, the Spanish town of Buñol has a food fight. What type of food is thrown? A: Tomatoes
Q: What is the westernmost region of France? (not counting overseas territories) A: Brittany
Q: What building is the headquarters of the U.S. military? A: The Pentagon
Q: What major river flows through the Grand Canyon? A: Colorado River
Q: What is Hobart the capital of? A: Tasmania
Q: What is the smallest province in Canada? A: Prince Edward Island
Q: In what country would you find Mount Kilimanjaro? A: Tanzania
Q: What is the main island of Japan? A: Honshu
Q: What city hosts the most well-known Oktoberfest? A: Munich
Q: Not counting continents, what is the world's largest island? A: Greenland
Q: What is the holiest city of Islam? A: Mecca
Q: In what country would you find Annapurna? A: Nepal
Q: What mountain range separates France and Spain? A: Pyrenees
Q: What is the capital of Djibouti? A: Djibouti
Q: In what country did Zoroastrianism start? A: Iran
Q: What is the tallest active volcano in Italy? A: Mt. Etna
Q: What is the most populous province of Canada? A: Ontario
Q: New Zealand was named after a province of what country? A: Netherlands
Q: What historical overland route connected China to the Mediterranean? A: Silk Road
Q: What is the name for Russian exclave that borders Lithuania and Poland? A: Kaliningrad
Q: What was the world's tallest building in 1950? A: Empire State Building
Q: What river intersects the Mississippi river near St. Louis? A: Missouri
Q: What is the world's most populous country? A: China
Q: What is the highest mountain range in South America? A: Andes
Q: What family name is shared by approximately 40% of Vietnamese people? A: Nguyễn
Q: What strait separates Alaska and Russia? A: Bering Strait
Q: What is the world's biggest freshwater lake by surface area? A: Lake Superior
Q: What word is used to describe a chain of islands? A: Archipelago
Q: What building is famously located at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave? A: The White House
Q: What is either the name of a US state or an independent country? A: Georgia
Q: In what city would you find the Kowloon peninsula? A: Hong Kong
Q: What English town is famous for its white cliffs? A: Dover
Q: What is the biggest island in the Indian Ocean? A: Madagascar
Q: In what country is Vegemite popular? A: Australia
Q: What uninhabited island was settled by HMS Bounty mutineers? A: Pitcairn Island
Q: What is the German word for Germany? A: Deutschland
Q: What city was once called New Amsterdam? A: New York City
Q: Including inland seas, what's the world's largest lake? A: Caspian Sea
Q: What became the world's newest independent country in 2011? A: South Sudan
Q: Who had his capital at Xanadu? A: Kublai Khan
Q: Near what major American city is Lake Pontchartrain located? A: New Orleans
Q: In what city would you find the world's tallest building? A: Dubai
Q: What valley is the site of the Earth's highest-ever recorded temperature, 134°F? A: Death Valley
Q: Albania and Serbia are located on what peninsula? A: Balkan
Q: What is Pakistan's longest river? A: Indus River
Q: If measured from its base on the sea floor, what mountain is the world's tallest? A: Mauna Kea
Q: What gold coin was worth 21 shillings? A: Guinea
Q: What is the Rome's Flavian Amphitheatre better known as? A: The Colosseum
Q: Who is on the American $100 bill? A: Ben Franklin
Q: What constellation is depicted on the Australian flag? A: Southern Cross
Q: Mérida and Cancún are located on what peninsula? A: Yucatán
Q: What famous event for daredevils happens in Pamplona, Spain? A: Running of the Bulls
Q: What is the capital of Western Australia? A: Perth
Q: What language does the word tsunami come from? A: Japanese
Q: What strait divides Morocco and Spain? A: Strait of Gibraltar
Q: On what street would you find the official residence of the British Prime Minister? A: Downing
Q: What ethnic group does the ETA separatist movement claim to represent? A: Basques
Q: On what peninsula do Spain and Portugal lie? A: Iberian Peninsula
Q: What U.S. state has the largest Mormon population? A: Utah
Q: What city was supposedly founded by Romulus and Remus? A: Rome
Q: By surface area, what is the largest of Africa's great lakes? A: Victoria
Q: What ocean current brings warm water from the Gulf of Mexico to Europe? A: Gulf Stream
Q: In what country is Khmer the primary language? A: Cambodia
Q: What canal terminates at Buffalo? A: Erie Canal
Q: What was the former currency of Italy? A: Italian Lira
Q: On what Turkish mountain is Noah's ark often said to have landed? A: Mount Ararat
Q: What was the capital of West Germany? A: Bonn
Q: What's the Spanish name for the United States? A: Estados Unidos
Q: What island is divided between Greek and Turkish factions? A: Cyprus
Q: "What is another name for a ""Brownshirt""?" A: A Fascist
Q: What group sacked Baghdad in 1258, ending the Islamic Golden Age? A: The Mongols
Q: Who did Rome fight against in the Punic Wars? A: Carthage
Q: What yellow gas was famously used in WWI? A: Mustard Gas
Q: "Who famously said ""I am not a crook""?" A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who supposedly fiddled while Rome burned (but actually didn't)? A: Nero
Q: "What father and son Prime Ministers are referred to as ""The Elder"" and ""The Younger""?" A: William Pitt
Q: What bird product was an important fertilizer in the 19th century? A: Guano
Q: Who is the namesake of the country of Bolivia? A: Simón Bolívar
Q: What epic poem is thought to be the oldest in the English language? A: Beowulf
Q: What country used Molotov cocktails in their war with the Soviets? A: Finland
Q: What ancient empire was led by Xerxes, Cyrus, and Darius? A: Persia
Q: What empire had its capital at Tenochtitlan? A: Aztec Empire
Q: In what war was Washington D.C. burned? A: War of 1812
Q: Who was the most notorious member of the Ba'ath Party? A: Saddam Hussein
Q: What English King fought in the Crusades and battled against Saladin? A: Richard the Lionheart
Q: What creature was used for the medical treatment of bloodletting? A: Leeches
Q: What plant, imported from the New World, changed the face of Italian cooking? A: Tomato
Q: What composer died while composing a Requiem in 1791? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: What fur-trading company, founded in 1670, once owned about 1/3rd of Canada's land? A: Hudson's Bay Company
Q: What was the state religion of the Persian empires? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: What type of craft was the Hindenburg? A: Zeppelin
Q: Who famously wore a pink Chanel suit and matching pillbox hat? A: Jackie Kennedy
Q: What country did Italy invade in 1935? A: Ethiopia
Q: Who was killed in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914? A: Franz Ferdinand
Q: What German kingdom was ruled by Ludwig II, builder of the famous Neuschwanstein castle? A: Bavaria
Q: What country was personally owned (and abused) by King Leopold of Belgium? A: Congo
Q: What city did the Nazis siege for 872 days but never capture? A: Leningrad
Q: What group, established after WWI, was a failed predecessor to the United Nations? A: League of Nations
Q: What industrialist became the world's first billionaire - thanks to his monopoly on the US oil industry? A: John D. Rockefeller
Q: What was the Democratic Republic of the Congo called from 1971-1997? A: Zaire
Q: What Italian adventurer wrote about his 24 year journey from Venice to China and back? A: Marco Polo
Q: What crime was Al Capone convicted of in 1931? A: Tax Evasion
Q: "The words ""tsar"" and ""kaiser"" are derived from what Latin word?" A: Caesar
Q: What Mexican general redistributed land to the poor and raided the U.S.? A: Pancho Villa
Q: From which empire did Greece gain its independece, in 1830? A: Ottoman Empire
Q: What volcano destroyed Pompeii and Herculaneum? A: Mount Vesuvius
Q: "What Greek genius said ""Eureka"" in the bathtub and is said to have invented a death ray?" A: Archimedes
Q: Who is the father of the modern country of Turkey? A: Mustafa Kemal Atatürk
Q: What favorite of Queen Elizabeth tried to colonize Virginia and popularized smoking? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: What was the primary language of the Byzantine Empire? A: Greek
Q: What country was led by Haile Selassie? A: Ethiopia
Q: And what religious movement views Haile Selassie as the Second Coming of Jesus? A: Rastafarian
Q: In what city was Abraham Zapruder living on November 22, 1963? A: Dallas
Q: Henry VIII suffered a leg injury participating in what sport? A: Jousting
Q: What empire, based in Cusco, once controlled much of the Andes? A: Inca Empire
Q: What country imported an estimated four million slaves before finally banning slavery in 1888? A: Brazil
Q: Who invented the printing press in Europe? A: Johannes Gutenberg
Q: What product did Gandhi march to the sea to obtain? A: Salt
Q: What trade did the Dutch East India Company dominate in 17th and 18th centuries? A: Spice
Q: Who sailed around the world on the Golden Hind? A: Sir Francis Drake
Q: What island chain did Charles Darwin famously visit, inspiring his theory of natural selection? A: Galápagos Islands
Q: "What ""generalísimo"" ruled Spain from 1939-1975?" A: Francisco Franco
Q: What nation was ruled by King Nebuchadnezzar II? A: Babylon
Q: "Who said ""honey, I forgot to duck"" after being shot in 1981?" A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What Native American confederacy is composed of six tribes including the Mohawk and Seneca? A: Iroquois
Q: What Christian city was sacked during the Fourth Crusade? A: Constantinople
Q: Who commissioned the Domesday Book to survey his conquests? A: William the Conqueror
Q: What city was led by a doge? A: Venice
Q: What island chain did Captain Cook discover before being killed by the people who already lived there? A: Hawaii
Q: Who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? A: Michelangelo
Q: "What ""plot"" was Guy Fawkes involved in?" A: The Gunpowder Plot
Q: What was the first name of Franklin D. Roosevelt's first lady? A: Eleanor
Q: What is the name for a Viking warrior who fought in a trance-like, nearly uncontrollable fury? A: Berserker
Q: "What crop was ""king"" in the antebellum U.S. South?" A: Cotton
Q: In what modern-day country were the oldest human remains found? A: Ethiopia
Q: "What city had a liberal ""spring"" in 1968 that was crushed by Soviet tanks?" A: Prague
Q: In the 1700's what did men commonly wear that was powdered and white? A: Wig
Q: Who was the U.S. President during WWI? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Who is Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov better know as? A: Vladimir Lenin
Q: In what theater was Abraham Lincoln shot? A: Ford's Theatre
Q: What country still denies its slaughter of over a million Armenians that happened in 1915? A: Turkey
Q: Thebes and Memphis were once capitals of what empire? A: Egypt
Q: "Who ""invented"" the hang glider, parachute, and diving suit?" A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: What Parisienne was the first person to win multiple Nobel Prizes? A: Marie Curie
Q: Who sent a telegram from Kitty Hawk in 1903? A: Orville Wright
Q: What Puritanical English ruler banned Christmas? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: What secret society traces its origins to Medieval stone workers? A: Freemasons
Q: "What war was depicted in Picasso's painting ""Guernica""?" A: Spanish Civil War
Q: What Russian empress had affairs with many men? A: Catherine the Great
Q: How many pence were in a pound prior to 1971? A: 240
Q: Hippodromes and Circuses were arenas for what sport? A: Chariot Racing
Q: Who was the Supreme Commander of the Allied forces in Europe during WWII? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: What famous train ran between Paris and Istanbul? A: Orient Express
Q: Who is said to have committed suicide via an asp bite? A: Cleopatra
Q: Who was Louis XVI's wife? A: Marie Antoinette
Q: In what city did Muhammad die? A: Medina
Q: What paper-like writing material was used by the ancient Egyptians? A: Papyrus
Q: "On what famous statue is it written ""Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses""?" A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: In what country is chess thought to have originated? A: India
Q: What city marked the easternmost point of Napoleon's conquests? A: Moscow
Q: "What ""stick-thin"" model became a symbol of Swingin' Sixties London?" A: Twiggy
Q: What ancient language was the first to develop a sound-based alphabet? A: Phoenician
Q: What Russian princess, murdered in 1918, did many imposters claim to be? A: Anastasia
Q: What name is given to the Japanese suicide pilots of WWII? A: Kamikaze
Q: What was the last name of power couple Eva and Juan? A: Perón
Q: What African-American athlete defied Hitler's theories of racial superiority by winning four gold medals at the Berlin Olympics? A: Jesse Owens
Q: Which English king was beheaded? A: King Charles I
Q: "In what city did Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier have a ""thrilling"" fight?" A: Manila
Q: What became the 50th U.S. state in 1959? A: Hawaii
Q: Whose advisors included Sir Thomas More, Cardinal Wolsey, and Thomas Cromwell? A: King Henry VIII
Q: On what ship did English sailors mutiny against Captain Bligh? A: HMS Bounty
Q: What started on October 29, 1929 and lasted for a decade? A: Great Depression
Q: What name is given to the ancient region in the area of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers? A: Mesopotamia
Q: On what Pacific island did islanders build giant statues called moai? A: Easter Island
Q: "What fermented food product was called ""liberty cabbage"" during WWI?" A: Sauerkraut
Q: What figurative barrier separated democratic and communist Europe? A: Iron Curtain
Q: What country was once led by military leaders called shoguns? A: Japan
Q: In which modern-day country was the Anglo-Boer war fought? A: South Africa
Q: "Rachel Carson's book ""Silent Spring"" was partially responsible for the ban of what insecticide?" A: DDT
Q: "What country was ruled by ""Papa Doc"" and ""Baby Doc"" Duvalier?" A: Haiti
Q: What modern-day country was once the largest and most profitable Dutch colony? A: Indonesia
Q: What did Karl Marx and the Unabomber both write? A: Manifestos
Q: What Mexican general defeated the Texans at the Alamo? A: Antonio López de Santa Anna
Q: What 1950's subculture was famous for wearing berets, playing bongos, and snapping? A: Beatniks
Q: Who famously lived at Robben Island prison from 1964-1990? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: What group of French-speaking people settled in Louisiana after being forced out of eastern Canada? A: Acadians
Q: What is Queen Mary I of England's unflattering nickname? A: Bloody Mary
Q: Who was the main author of the U.S. Declaration of Independence? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: What is a name for a women of the 1920's who had bobbed hair, wore short skirts, drank, and listened to jazz? A: Flapper
Q: Which country was divided near the 38th parallel in 1953? A: Korea
Q: What insignia did the Nazi SS wear on their caps? A: Skull and Crossbones
Q: "Who said ""the die is cast"" as he crossed the Rubicon?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: What disease killed over 3% of the world's population in 1918 and 1919? A: Spanish Flu
Q: What design movement was exemplified by the Empire State and Chrysler buildings? A: Art Deco
Q: Who abdicated in 1936 in order to marry American divorcée Wallis Simpson? A: King Edward VIII
Q: Which country was ruled by Idi Amin? A: Uganda
Q: In what extinct language were the Hindu Vedas written? A: Sanskrit
Q: What duo did Sacagawea help on their famous journey to the Pacific? A: Lewis and Clark
Q: Where were Walter Raleigh, Anne Boleyn, and Guy Fawkes imprisoned? A: Tower of London
Q: Europeans brought many new diseases to the new world. But what STD did the New World give Europe? A: Syphilis
Q: What was New York City called before 1664? A: New Amsterdam
Q: England will never fall as long as what type of bird can be found in London Tower? A: Ravens
Q: What lady supposedly rode naked through the streets of Coventry, seen only by Peeping Tom? A: Lady Godiva
Q: What nation was led by Ho Chi Minh? A: North Vietnam
Q: Who was the first European to reach India by sea? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: In what country did the Bay of Pigs invasion happen? A: Cuba
Q: "What city became, by 1835, ""the first and greatest industrial city in the world""?" A: Manchester
Q: What entertainer hosted the Oscars 14 times, entertained troops, and lived to age 100? A: Bob Hope
Q: "What French feminist wrote ""The Second Sex""?" A: Simone de Beauvoir
Q: What is the name for a Celtic priest? A: Druid
Q: What Greek hero did Alexander model himself after? A: Achilles
Q: Phrenologists believed they could determine a person's character by measuring their what? A: Skull
Q: What Roman dome, commissioned by Agrippa in ancient times, still stands today? A: The Pantheon
Q: In what country was the Pravda newspaper published? A: Soviet Union
Q: What giant bird was hunted to extinction by Māori people on New Zealand? A: Moa
Q: What canal opened in 1869 after 10 years of excavation using forced labor? A: Suez Canal
Q: "What was the name of Dorothy's dog in ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: Toto
Q: What city in southern France hosts a famous film festival? A: Cannes
Q: Who was the first actor to star as Batman? A: Adam West
Q: What movie starred Natalie Portman and Mila Kunis? A: Black Swan
Q: What country produces the most films each year? A: India
Q: What movie took place in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania? A: Groundhog Day
Q: Who was born as an old man and died as a baby? A: Benjamin Button
Q: "What object was used as a murder weapon at the end of the movie ""There Will Be Blood""?" A: Bowling Pin
Q: What chubby director had a famous silhouette? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: "What movie is subtitled ""How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb""?" A: Dr. Strangelove
Q: "Who starred as Arnold Schwarzenegger's ""Twin""?" A: Danny DeVito
Q: "What movie ended with the line ""I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship""?" A: Casablanca
Q: "What was the name of the snowman in the movie ""Frozen""?" A: Olaf
Q: "In what country did the movie ""Mad Max"" take place?" A: Australia
Q: In what movie did Gene Kelly dance with a streetlight? A: Singin' in the Rain
Q: What musical featured the music of ABBA? A: Mamma Mia!
Q: "What was the name of the villain in the movie ""Die Hard""?" A: Hans Gruber
Q: "What type of animal did the crew of the USS Enterprise need to rescue in ""Star Trek IV: The Journey Home""?" A: Humpback Whales
Q: "In what city did the movie ""Slumdog Millionaire"" take place?" A: Mumbai
Q: "What was the sequel to the 2010 romcom ""Valentine's Day""?" A: New Year's Eve
Q: "What ""physical"" actress starred alongside John Travolta in ""Grease""?" A: Olivia Newton-John
Q: "What Harlem detective is the ""cat who won't cop out when there's danger all about""?" A: John Shaft
Q: What golf movie starred Chevy Chase, Bill Murray, and Rodney Dangerfield? A: Caddyshack
Q: What movie featured the Dread Pirate Roberts? A: The Princess Bride
Q: What comedienne interviewed celebrities on the red carpet before her death in 2014? A: Joan Rivers
Q: "What was the intellectual faction in the movie ""Divergent""?" A: Erudite
Q: What dystopian movie is named after a country? A: Brazil
Q: "Who directed the movie ""American Sniper""?" A: Clint Eastwood
Q: "What was the name on the fake ID in the movie ""Superbad""?" A: McLovin
Q: What country did the Von Trapp family flee to? A: Switzerland
Q: Who did Brad Pitt dump for Angelina Jolie? A: Jennifer Aniston
Q: "Who starred as identical twins in the 1998 remake of ""The Parent Trap""?" A: Lindsay Lohan
Q: Who does Mothra often do battle with? A: Godzilla
Q: Who once enjoyed eating human liver, fava beans, and a nice chianti? A: Hannibal Lecter
Q: "What sculpture appeared at the end of the movie ""Planet of the Apes""?" A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: "In what movie did Will Ferrell say ""We're gonna skate to one song and one song only""?" A: Blades of Glory
Q: What movie starred actors Cruise and Cruz? A: Vanilla Sky
Q: "What singer starred as a man with boobs in the movie ""Fight Club""?" A: Meat Loaf
Q: What Academy Award winning actor died of a heroin overdose in 2014? A: Philip Seymour Hoffman
Q: In 2010, Kathryn Bigelow became the first woman to win an Oscar for Best Director. What movie did she win for? A: The Hurt Locker
Q: "What real-life person was the subject of the movie ""The Social Network""?" A: Mark Zuckerburg
Q: In what movie did John Cusack serenade a girl by holding a boom box above his head? A: Say Anything
Q: "Who did Meryl Streep portray in the movie ""The Iron Lady""?" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: What movie is about an a cappella girl's group called The Barden Bellas? A: Pitch Perfect
Q: What is the highest prize awarded at the Cannes Film Festival? A: Palme d'Or
Q: What was Paul Blart's job? A: Mall Cop
Q: Who has starred opposite Tom Hanks in three different romantic comedies? A: Meg Ryan
Q: "What actor starred in ""Batman"" and ""Birdman""?" A: Michael Keaton
Q: What famous actress is the daughter of Jon Voight? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: In what John Candy movie did the U.S. invade Canada? A: Canadian Bacon
Q: What movie series consists of Identity, Supremacy, Ultimatum, and Legacy? A: Bourne
Q: "What activity is the subject of the movie ""Bring it On""?" A: Cheerleading
Q: "What city was the destination of Harry and Lloyd in the movie ""Dumb and Dumber""?" A: Aspen
Q: Who was Jessica Rabbit's husband? A: Roger Rabbit
Q: "Who wrote the score to ""Star Wars"", ""Raiders of the Lost Ark"", and ""Jurassic Park""?" A: John Williams
Q: What type of animal was Turbo? A: Snail
Q: Who dated Ellen Degeneres from 1997-2000? A: Anne Heche
Q: What movie was about surfers who robbed banks wearing U.S. President masks? A: Point Break
Q: What movie was about an archer girl with lots of curly red hair? A: Brave
Q: What 2013 Martin Scorsese film set a record for the most F-bombs dropped in a mainstream movie? A: The Wolf of Wall Street
Q: "In what country was ""The Lord of the Rings"" trilogy filmed?" A: New Zealand
Q: "What band made a movie called ""The Wall""?" A: Pink Floyd
Q: Who starred as The Tramp? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: What Hollywood family had/has members Lionel, John, Ethel, and Drew? A: Barrymore
Q: "What kid's movie had a ""Squeakquel""?" A: Alvin and the Chipmunks
Q: Who has starred as Madea in 8 different movies? A: Tyler Perry
Q: "Who is the only person to have won 3 Oscars for Best Actor? (His first was for ""My Left Foot"")" A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: What detective movie starred Madonna and Warren Beatty? A: Dick Tracy
Q: "What does Mike Wazowski study in the movie ""Monsters University""?" A: Scaring
Q: What prolific actor's real name is Nicolas Coppola? A: Nicolas Cage
Q: "In what city did the movie ""Lost in Translation"" take place?" A: Tokyo
Q: What pig won a sheep dog competition? A: Babe
Q: What movie was named after a city in North Dakota but actually took place mostly in Minnesota? A: Fargo
Q: "What actress was nicknamed ""Hanoi Jane""?" A: Jane Fonda
Q: What actor has portrayed Malcolm X, Frank Lucas, and Rubin Carter? A: Denzel Washington
Q: Who died in 1791 in Vienna, while working on a Requiem? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: Who famously wore a cone-shaped bra? A: Madonna
Q: Complete the lyric: Come, Mister tally man, tally me ... A: Banana
Q: What type of shoes did Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley sing about? A: Blue Suede Shoes
Q: What song by Billy Joel is frequently requested at dueling piano bars? A: Piano Man
Q: What are Glastonbury, Coachella, and Bonnaroo? A: Music Festivals
Q: "Who wrote the album ""No Jacket Required"" in response to being denied entrance to a fancy restaurant for not wearing a proper jacket?" A: Phil Collins
Q: What 1985 song featured dozens of famous artists and raised $100 million for charity in Africa? A: We are the World
Q: What singer is the third-best-selling musical act of all time in the UK - but is largely unknown in the United States? A: Sir Cliff Richard
Q: What voice-altering technology was famously used by T-Pain and Cher? A: Auto-Tune
Q: "Who originally wrote the song ""All Along the Watchtower"", famously covered by Jimi Hendrix?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: What instrument was made obsolete by the piano? A: Harpsichord
Q: What are Fenders and Gibsons? A: Guitars
Q: What French electronic music duo almost always wear helmets when appearing in public? A: Daft Punk
Q: What is either a popular heavy metal band or a Medieval torture device? A: Iron Maiden
Q: What heavy metal band has a one-armed drummer? A: Def Leppard
Q: What Christmas ballet was composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky? A: The Nutcracker
Q: What annual song contest do most European countries participate in? A: Eurovision
Q: "Who famously sang ""Over the Rainbow""?" A: Judy Garland
Q: "Who partnered with Jay-Z to record ""Watch the Throne""?" A: Kanye West
Q: On what island did reggae originate? A: Jamaica
Q: What Neptunes producer and N*E*R*D member became a popular solo artist? A: Pharrell Williams
Q: What type of musical instrument has a chanter and a drone? A: Bagpipes
Q: Who died of alcohol poisoing in 2011, at age 27? A: Amy Winehouse
Q: What Spanish music form often features palmas (clapping) and pitos (finger snapping)? A: Flamenco
Q: What song is Warren G famous for? A: Regulate
Q: Who crafted violins that are now worth millions of dollars each? A: Antonio Stradivari
Q: What is either a type of South American drum or a dance where people form a line? A: Conga
Q: What singer was discovered in 2007 by Scooter Braun? (although many wish he hadn't been) A: Justin Bieber
Q: Who famously ate peanut butter, banana, and bacon sandwiches? A: Elvis Presley
Q: What is the national instrument of Ireland? A: Harp
Q: "Nirvana's most famous song is probably ""Smells Like Teen Spirit"". What is Teen Spirit?" A: Deodorant
Q: What band did Zack de la Rocha and Tom Morello play in? A: Rage Against the Machine
Q: "What movie featured the songs ""Danger Zone"" and ""Take My Breath Away""?" A: Top Gun
Q: In what music video did NSYNC dance like marionettes? A: Bye Bye Bye
Q: What stringed instrument starts with Z, and is traditionally found in parts of Eastern Europe? A: Zither
Q: "What song by Michael Jackson asks ""Annie are you O.K.""?" A: Smooth Criminal
Q: "What was the only #1 hit by the band ""Toto""?" A: Africa
Q: What four-letter club in New York was famous for punk shows? A: CBGB
Q: "Who recorded the rap album ""good kid, m.A.A.d city""?" A: Kendrick Lamar
Q: Delta, Chicago, and Kansas City are subgenres of what type of music? A: Blues
Q: What singer has the most Twitter followers? A: Katy Perry
Q: "Who wrote music for a ""Well-Tempered Clavier""?" A: J.S. Bach
Q: What type of dance was famously performed at the Moulin Rouge? A: Can-Can
Q: What, according to Kanye West, was one of the best music videos of all time? A: Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)
Q: "What percussion instrument was prominently featured in the song ""(Don't Fear) The Reaper""?" A: Cowbell
Q: What country singer has friends in low places? A: Garth Brooks
Q: What, according to Gil Scott-Heron, will not be televised? A: The Revolution
Q: "What genre of music was New York's ""Studio 54"" most associated with?" A: Disco
Q: "Who wrote ""Rhapsody in Blue""?" A: George Gershwin
Q: "What type of tasty treat brings ""all the boys to the yard""?" A: Milkshake
Q: "What British rock band recorded ""I Bet You Look Good on the Dancefloor"" and ""Fluorescent Adolescent""?" A: The Arctic Monkeys
Q: What stringed instrument did King David play? A: Lyre
Q: What 1990's hip hop group had a DJ named Spinderella? A: Salt-N-Pepa
Q: What Italian violin virtuoso was rumored to have sold his soul to the devil? A: Niccolò Paganini
Q: What is the name for the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca? A: Hajj
Q: What is the last book in the Bible? A: Revelation
Q: What is Hinduism's most sacred animal? A: Cow
Q: What series of wars was an attempt by European Christians to retake the holy land? A: Crusades
Q: Who is the Norse god of Thunder? A: Thor
Q: In what city was the Jewish temple located? A: Jerusalem
Q: According to Islamic law, what can a man have no more than four of at any one time? A: Wives
Q: In Indian religions, what is the word for the state of enlightenment and freedom from suffering? A: Nirvana
Q: Who defeated Goliath and wrote Psalms? A: King David
Q: In what city is the most famous Mormon Temple located? A: Salt Lake City
Q: What is the indigenous religion of Japan? A: Shinto
Q: According to the Bible, in what city was Jesus born? A: Bethlehem
Q: "What Christian denomination is also known as ""Friends""?" A: Quakers
Q: Who was the Egyptian sun god? (Hint: his name is only two letters long) A: Ra
Q: What city is the burial place of Mohammed? A: Medina
Q: Who is the most important prophet in Islam? A: Muhammad
Q: What mountain was the home of the Greek gods? A: Mount Olympus
Q: Who was the Greek god of the underworld? A: Hades
Q: What are the two main branches of Islam? A: Sunni
Q: Besides India, what other country is predominately Hindu? A: Nepal
Q: Who was the first supreme head of the Church of England? A: Henry VIII
Q: Members of the church of Latter-Day Saints are better known as what? A: Mormons
Q: What modern witchcraft religion was invented by Gerald Gardner? A: Wicca
Q: In what ancient country did Zoroastrianism originate? A: Persia
Q: What is the name of the largest church in the Vatican? A: St. Peter's Basilica
Q: What religion is based on the teachings of Laozi? A: Taoism
Q: What was the Greek name of the Roman goddess Venus? A: Aphrodite
Q: What Jamaican religious tradition was practiced by Bob Marley? A: Rastafari
Q: What Norse god was the ruler of Asgard? A: Odin
Q: What is the Islamic equivalent to the Bible? A: Quran
Q: What is the name of the Jewish coming-of-age ceremony? A: Bar or Bat Mitzvah
Q: What was the food of the Greek gods? A: Ambrosia
Q: Who founded the Mormon church? A: Joseph Smith
Q: What is the name for a person who is a member of the Church of England? A: Anglican
Q: What is the largest Protestant denomination in the United States? A: Southern Baptist
Q: "What Arabic word means ""struggle"" but is often interpreted as ""Holy War""?" A: Jihad
Q: What Jewish relic contained the tablets on which the Ten Commandments were written? A: Ark of the Covenant
Q: What Jewish king is credited with building the first temple of Jerusalem? A: Solomon
Q: Pele is the volcano goddess of what island chain? A: Hawaii
Q: What religious group places a great importance on wearing the turban? A: Sikh
Q: What is the top caste in Hindu society? A: Brahmins
Q: "In what religion can you become an ""Operating Thetan""?" A: Scientology
Q: What name refers to a priest in ancient Celtic religions? A: Druid
Q: Ganesh is depicted as having the head of what type of animal? A: Elephant
Q: What type of bird returned to Noah's ark with an olive branch? A: Dove
Q: At what religious gathering were over 700 people killed in 2015 due to a stampede? A: Hadj
Q: What country once worshipped a sun god named Ra? A: Egypt
Q: What was the profession of Joseph, Jesus's father? A: Carpenter
Q: Who gained enlightenment sitting under a Bodhi tree? A: Buddha
Q: What is the name for a system of law based on Islamic principles? A: Sharia
Q: Who is the current pope? A: Francis
Q: What term refers to foods that Jewish people are allowed to eat? A: Kosher
Q: What former country was ruled by the Dalai Lama? A: Tibet
Q: What is the primary language of Hinduism? A: Sanskrit
Q: In what country is Vodou commonly practiced? A: Haiti
Q: What is the most common Protestant denomination in Scandinavia and Germany? A: Lutheranism
Q: What river was Jesus baptised in? (Hint: It is on the eastern border of modern-day Israel) A: River Jordan
Q: What is another name for the devil, starting with the letter L? A: Lucifer
Q: In Jewish folklore, what is the name for a monster made of clay? A: Golem
Q: What nickname refers to followers of Sun Myung Moon? A: Moonies
Q: Who was the only President to serve two non-consecutive terms? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: What model of Chevy, discontinued in 1987, was a car in front and a pickup truck in back? A: El Camino
Q: Who supposedly threw a silver dollar across the Potomac River? A: George Washington
Q: What U.S. state was the end point of the Trail of Tears? A: Oklahoma
Q: What rating replaced X in the movie theaters? A: NC-17
Q: What hipster city has been called a place where young people go to retire? A: Portland
Q: What organization did John Walker Lindh join in 2001? A: The Taliban
Q: What holiday on June 19th celebrates the abolition of slavery in Texas? A: Juneteenth
Q: What union do nearly 100,000 employess of Ford and GM belong to? A: The United Auto Workers
Q: What TV host would pretend to be a psychic swami named Carnac the Magnificent? A: Johnny Carson
Q: What L.A. neighborhood had race riots in 1965? A: Watts
Q: "What product used the slogan ""plop plop fizz fizz""?" A: Alka-Seltzer
Q: Who did Anita Hill accuse of sexual harrassment? A: Clarence Thomas
Q: What American folk hero is famous for planting apple trees? A: Johnny Appleseed
Q: "Where is one likely to get ""lei'd"" when arriving at the airport?" A: Hawaii
Q: "What American city has a name that means ""Red Stick"" in French?" A: Baton Rouge
Q: "What ""ageless"" TV star used to host ""New Year's Rockin Eve""?" A: Dick Clark
Q: What African-American Christmas alternative was first celebrated in 1966? A: Kwanzaa
Q: What position in the U.S. government has been held by Hillary Clinton, Colin Powell, and Henry Kissinger? A: Secretary of State
Q: What Alaskan island chain extends for over 1,000 miles? A: Aleutian Islands
Q: What are Riker's Island and Sing Sing? A: Prisons
Q: "What company makes ""57 varieties"" of sauces?" A: Heinz
Q: What song is commonly played when the President of the United States enters a room? A: Hail to the Chief
Q: What type of hat did Davy Crockett famously wear? A: Coonskin Cap
Q: Who did Dennis the Menace irritate more than anyone else? A: Mr. Wilson
Q: On what avenue would you find the flagship location of Saks department store? A: Fifth Avenue
Q: What ice cream chain offered 31 flavors? A: Baskin-Robbins
Q: Who is the U.S. interstate highway system named for? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: Who once lost an election by 537 votes, 5 votes, 1 vote, or negative 543,895 votes, depending on one's perspective? A: Al Gore
Q: "What industry is sometimes referred to as ""Madison Avenue""?" A: Advertising
Q: Among major American cities, which one has the highest percentage of Chinese-Americans? A: San Francisco
Q: What city is home to the University of Michigan? A: Ann Arbor
Q: What are the three biggest cities in Montana that start with the letter B? A: Billings
Q: "In the movie ""A Christmas Story"", what dangerous gift did Ralphie receive for Christmas?" A: Red Ryder B.B. Gun
Q: Who was the first person to sign the Declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: What business were the Ringling Brothers involved in? A: The Circus
Q: "What type of animal appeared on the ""don't tread of me"" flag?" A: Rattlesnake
Q: "What actor had to lose weight to star as Babe Ruth in the movie ""The Babe""?" A: John Goodman
Q: What is the best-selling type of lettuce in the United States? A: Iceberg
Q: "Who sang ""Don't be fooled by the rocks that I got / I'm still Jenny from the block""" A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: In what country was Barack Obama's father born? A: Kenya
Q: What breed of cattle is the Texas state animal? A: Texas Longhorn
Q: Hope, Arkansas is the birthplace of two well-known politicians. One is Mike Huckabee. Who is the other? A: Bill Clinton
Q: "Whose failed business ventures include vodka, steaks, an airline, a casino, and a ""university""?" A: Donald Trump
Q: "Who appeared on the covers of dozens of romance novels and also promoted ""I Can't Believe It's Not Butter!""?" A: Fabio
Q: What type of loans does Sallie Mae primarily deal with? A: Student Loans
Q: "In the ""Peanuts"" comic strip, what Halloween spirit does Linus believe in?" A: The Great Pumpkin
Q: What city is known as Chocolate Town, U.S.A.? A: Hershey, PA
Q: What college is the alma mater of 53 NASA astronauts, more than any other? A: U.S. Naval Academy
Q: "Who jumped from the balcony of Ford's Theatre yelling ""Sic semper tyrannis""?" A: John Wilkes Booth
Q: What American fairy tale character fell asleep for twenty years? A: Rip Van Winkle
Q: What county of Iowa is famous for its covered bridges, and was featured in a movie starring Clint Eastwood? A: Madison County
Q: What crop was farmed by Jimmy Carter? A: Peanuts
Q: What is the northernmost major city in the lower 48 U.S. states? A: Seattle
Q: What is the most advanced fighter plane currently made by the United States? A: F-22 Raptor
Q: What country did 15 of the September 11th hijackers come from? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: "What TV character said ""I am the one who knocks""?" A: Walter White
Q: What cable station broadcasts the proceedings of U.S. Congress? A: C-SPAN
Q: Which Las Vegas casino has an ancient Roman theme? A: Caesars Palace
Q: What Crayola crayon color, starting with the letter P, is a pale blue? A: Periwinkle
Q: Who finished 3rd in the 1992 Presidential election? A: Ross Perot
Q: Who wants YOU for U.S. Army? A: Uncle Sam
Q: "What product is ""Dolphin Safe"" in the U.S. but not necessarily in other countries?" A: Tunafish
Q: What type of product is Mrs. Butterworth's? A: Syrup
Q: "What was once described by a U.S. senator as ""a series of tubes""?" A: Internet
Q: What recent Broadway hit is about the life of one of the founding fathers? A: Hamilton
Q: What type of furniture is also known as an Ottoman? A: Footstool
Q: What is either a large rock or a city in Colorado? A: Boulder
Q: What's the best-selling variety of Girl Scout cookies? A: Thin Mints
Q: What city did Brandon and Brenda Walsh move to in high school? A: Beverly Hills
Q: What cereal is for kids, silly rabbit? A: Trix
Q: What was the first state to ratify the Constitution? A: Delaware
Q: What reality TV show did the villainous Omarosa appear in? A: The Apprentice
Q: What is either an album by the Red Hot Chili Peppers or a show starring David Duchovny? A: Californication
Q: What product did Phil Robertson get rich by selling? A: Duck Calls
Q: Whose likeness did Republicans propose putting on the dime, in 2003? A: Ronald Reagan's
Q: What, according to Yogi Berra, ain't worth a dime anymore? A: a Nickel
Q: "What chain restaurant featured the jingle ""I want my baby back ribs""?" A: Chilis
Q: What language did the Pennsylvania Dutch speak? A: German
Q: What major University bans profanity, alcohol, caffeine, premarital sex, and even beards? A: Brigham Young
Q: What is the second most valuable crop in the U.S. - after corn? A: Soybeans
Q: In what office does the President work? A: The Oval Office
Q: What city's Lower Ninth Ward is partially below sea level? A: New Orleans
Q: What city is the southernmost state capital? A: Honolulu
Q: What is the only U.S. state where prostitution is legal? A: Nevada
Q: What McDonald's shake can only be purchased around Saint Patrick's Day? A: The Shamrock Shake
Q: "What type of surgery do the main characters of ""Nip/Tuck"" practice?" A: Plastic Surgery
Q: "What Tennessee senator was also an actor who starred in ""Law & Order"" and ""The Hunt for Red October""?" A: Fred Thompson
Q: Whose grave is marked by an eternal flame at Arlington National Cemetery? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: What variety of Girl Scout cookies contains toasted coconut? A: Samoas
Q: What does Frederick's of Hollywood sell? A: Lingerie
Q: What body has been led by John Jay, John Marshall, and Earl Warren? A: The Supreme Court
Q: What company's 2012 bankruptcy caused a brief halt in the production of Twinkies? A: Hostess
Q: Whose statue was removed from public view in State College, Pennsylvania? A: Joe Paterno
Q: What were Big Brown, War Emblem, and Seattle Slew? A: Racehorses
Q: What is the state food of Maryland? A: Blue Crabs
Q: "What President's middle name was simply ""S""?" A: Harry S Truman
Q: What teenage doctor was portrayed by Neil Patrick Harris? A: Doogie Howser
Q: What is the highest medal awarded by the U.S. military? A: Medal of Honor
Q: Which TV show starred James Gandolfini, Edie Falco, and Jamie-Lynn Sigler? A: The Sopranos
Q: Complete the analogy. Sooner is to Oklahoma as _______ is to Indiana. A: Hoosier
Q: What famous billionaire investor lives in Omaha, Nebraska? A: Warren Buffett
Q: Who is a former Mayor of Cincinnati, host of a trashy TV show, and the subject of an opera? A: Jerry Springer
Q: What is the flagship campus of the University of California? A: Berkeley
Q: What is the best-selling band whose name is a U.S. state? A: Alabama
Q: What does FAO Schwarz sell? A: Toys
Q: What Southern city is often called the most polite city in the U.S.? A: Charleston
Q: What TV show was created by Matt Stone and Trey Parker? A: South Park
Q: What dialect did the Oakland school district once propose teaching classes in? A: Ebonics
Q: What type of horses are prominently featured in Budweiser advertisements? A: Clydesdale
Q: In what city would you find the headquarters of Amazon.com? A: Seattle
Q: What invasive species has been blamed for reducing mammal populations in the Everglades? A: Burmese Python
Q: What round comes after Double Jeopardy? A: Final Jeopardy
Q: What is the moniker of the mustache growing month of November? A: Movember
Q: What type of pizza is Chicago known for? A: Deep Dish
Q: "What former prison, located in San Francisco Bay, is called ""The Rock""?" A: Alcatraz
Q: What state's capital city is Charleston? A: West Virginia
Q: What is Mark Wahlberg's home town? A: Boston
Q: What large lake can be found on the California-Nevada border? A: Lake Tahoe
Q: What type of fighting knife is named after a frontiersman who died at the Battle of the Alamo? A: Bowie Knife
Q: What river connects New York City and Albany? A: Hudson River
Q: "What composer's ""Hoe-down"" might you also remember from the commercial ""Beef, it's what's for dinner""?" A: Aaron Copland
Q: "Complete the analogy. Fred is to ""Wonder Years"" as Ben is to ..." A: Boy Meets World
Q: What politician had great hair - and served as John Kerry's running mate in 2004? A: John Edwards
Q: What state symbol of Ohio is similar to a chestnut - except that it is poisonous? A: Buckeye
Q: What was the wrestling nickname of former Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura? A: The Body
Q: Since 2005, who is the Chief Justice of the United States? A: John Roberts
Q: What Houston energy company went bankrupt in 2001 after massive fraud was revealed? A: Enron
Q: What KFC sandwich uses fried chicken fillets in place of bread? A: Double Down
Q: "What state is called ""Big Sky Country""?" A: Montana
Q: "Who flips the tiles on ""Wheel of Fortune""?" A: Vanna White
Q: In which quarter would you find Bourbon Street? A: The French Quarter
Q: Which U.S. President once killed a man in a duel? A: Andrew Jackson
Q: What does Rold Gold make? A: Pretzels
Q: What proposed amendment was approved by Congress in 1972, and ratified by 35 of the necessary 38 states? A: Equal Rights Amendment
Q: What German-born Secretary of State served under Presidents Nixon and Ford? A: Henry Kissinger
Q: "Who starred as AC Slater in ""Saved by the Bell""?" A: Mario Lopez
Q: What AOL catchphrase is also the name of a Tom Hanks movie? A: You've Got Mail
Q: "Who replaced Charlie Sheen on ""Two And A Half Men""?" A: Ashton Kutcher
Q: What is the most popular TV show that took place in the city of Albuquerque? A: Breaking Bad
Q: What was discovered in the Black Hills in 1874? A: Gold
Q: What breed of dog is Marmaduke? A: Great Dane
Q: What is the top grade of USDA beef? A: Prime
Q: What 1954 Supreme Court case made school segregation illegal? A: Brown v. Board of Education
Q: "What brand's slogan is ""when it rains, it pours""?" A: Morton Salt
Q: Who is He-Man's twin sister? A: She-Ra
Q: What type of moss typically grows on Live Oak and Cypress trees? A: Spanish Moss
Q: "Who played Uncle Jesse on the show ""Full House""?" A: John Stamos
Q: What street do Bert and Ernie live on? A: Sesame Street
Q: Who, according to the Chicago Tribune, did Thomas Dewey defeat in 1948? A: Harry S Truman
Q: What Native American warrior is the subject of an unfinished outdoor sculpture that dwarfs Mount Rushmore? A: Crazy Horse
Q: "Complete the John F. Kennedy Quote: ""Ich Bin Ein ......""" A: Berliner
Q: What city is Delta Airlines headquartered in? A: Atlanta
Q: What came to an end in Appomattox Court House, Virginia? A: The Civil War
Q: "What syndrome did Corky have on the show ""Life Goes On""?" A: Down Syndrome
Q: "Who hosted the show ""No Reservations"" on the Travel Channel?" A: Anthony Bourdain
Q: What gemstone has a blue-green color and is common in the Southwest United States? A: Turquoise
Q: What South Dakota drug store is advertised on road signs for hundreds of miles in either direction? A: Wall Drug
Q: "Whose trial featured the quote ""If the glove doesn't fit, you must acquit""?" A: O.J. Simpson's
Q: Fill the blank in the quote: Will it ____ in Peoria? A: Play
Q: "What is the ""twin city"" of Minneapolis?" A: St. Paul
Q: What were the Spruce Goose and the Spirit of St. Louis? A: Airplanes
Q: What is forbidden by the Fifth Amendment, but happens on a game show hosted by Alex Trebek? A: Double Jeopardy
Q: What fraternal organization is known for wearing fezzes and driving miniature cars? A: Shriners
Q: "What city in Kansas did people need to ""get the hell outta""?" A: Dodge City
Q: "What TV program once concluded with ""A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney""?" A: 60 Minutes
Q: What animal appeared on the back of a nickel from 1913-1938? A: Buffalo
Q: What are forbidden on Michigan's Mackinac Island? A: Cars
Q: Who is the President of the Senate? A: The Vice President
Q: What movie was about a crashed U.S. military helicopter in Somalia? A: Black Hawk Down
Q: What was the lowest terror alert level ever reached? A: Elevated (Yellow)
Q: What were installed on the White House roof by Jimmy Carter (but removed by Ronald Reagan)? A: Solar Panels
Q: "What singer, nicknamed Bocephus, sang the theme song to ""Monday Night Football""?" A: Hank Williams Jr.
Q: "What kind of ""handles"" do Oklahoma, Texas, and Florida have?" A: Panhandles
Q: In what state do Ducks battle Beavers? A: Oregon
Q: What criminal was famously pursued by Eliot Ness? A: Al Capone
Q: What 2008 Presidential candidate was not born in a U.S. state? A: John McCain
Q: What alien was over 200 years old, wanted to eat the family cat, and had a girlfriend named Rhonda? A: ALF
Q: In what city is NASA's mission control center located? A: Houston
Q: Who is smarter than the average bear? A: Yogi Bear
Q: "Who was the original host of ""America's Funniest Home Videos""?" A: Bob Saget
Q: Who tried to jump over Snake River Canyon in a rocket-powered motorcycle? A: Evel Knievel
Q: What is the highest level of security clearance in the United States? A: Top Secret
Q: Who is Kermit the Frog's girlfriend? A: Miss Piggy
Q: "Whose fitness videos are called ""Sweatin' to the Oldies""?" A: Richard Simmons
Q: "Who wrote ""The Star-Spangled Banner""?" A: Francis Scott Key
Q: On what island would you find the Haleakalā volcano? A: Maui
Q: "What type of animal was the subject of the movie ""Blackfish""?" A: Killer Whale
Q: Who did Gerald R. Ford famously pardon in 1974? A: Richard Nixon
Q: In what New York neighborhood would one find the Apollo Theater? A: Harlem
Q: What are all the children in the town of Lake Wobegon, Minnesota? A: Above Average
Q: "In the show ""The A-Team"", what was the only thing that B.A. Baracus was afraid of?" A: Flying
Q: "Who was at the center of the square in the opening credits to ""The Brady Bunch""?" A: Alice
Q: In what Colorado ski town does the average home sell for over $5 million? A: Aspen
Q: A valedictorian is the person who finishes first in their class. What is the name for the person who finishes second? A: Salutatorian
Q: What is the biggest city in Maricopa county? A: Phoenix
Q: What mountain was officially known as Mount McKinley until 2015? A: Denali
Q: On what bay does St. Petersburg, Florida lie? A: Tampa Bay
Q: What is the capital of Puerto Rico? A: San Juan
Q: What did the United States buy from France in 1803? A: Louisiana Territory
Q: What pioneer trail started in Independence, Missouri and ended in the Willamette Valley? A: Oregon Trail
Q: What U.S. territory in the Pacific was taken from Spain? A: Guam
Q: What volcano famously erupted on May 18, 1980? A: Mount St. Helens
Q: In what city is the U.S. Military Academy located? A: West Point
Q: What state is the #1 producer of maple syrup? A: Vermont
Q: What is the tallest type of tree in the U.S. (and also the world)? A: Coast Redwood
Q: What city's Presidio was at one time a Spanish, Mexican, and U.S. fort - and is now a park? A: San Francisco
Q: What New Hampshire mountain is famous for having the highest wind speed ever recorded in the U.S.? A: Mount Washington
Q: What type of animal is depicted on California's flag? A: Grizzly Bear
Q: What notable University is located in New Haven, Connecticut? A: Yale
Q: What city in Rhode Island is famous for its many mansions built during the late 1800's? A: Newport
Q: What canal connects the cities of Buffalo and Albany? A: Erie Canal
Q: What tribe has the largest reservation in the U.S. - bigger than 10 states? A: Navajo
Q: What city is served by O'Hare and Midway airports? A: Chicago
Q: What cave, located in Kentucky, has over 400 miles of passages? A: Mammoth Cave
Q: What notable university is located in South Bend, Indiana? A: Notre Dame
Q: "On what island are ""The Hamptons"" located?" A: Long Island
Q: What activity makes Aspen, Vail, and Breckenridge famous? A: Skiing
Q: What historical highway connected Chicago to Santa Monica? A: Route 66
Q: What National Park borders the city of Gatlinburg, Tennessee? A: Great Smoky Mountains
Q: What is Georgia's largest city on the Atlantic coast? A: Savannah
Q: What was formerly the biggest industry in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania? A: Steel
Q: Which of the Florida Keys has the highest population? A: Key West
Q: On what bay does Annapolis, Maryland lie? A: Chesapeake Bay
Q: What is the second biggest city in Arizona? A: Tucson
Q: Other than corn, what is most commonly grown crop in the United States? A: Soybeans
Q: What is the biggest city in Ohio that doesn't start with the letter C? A: Toledo
Q: What city on the East Coast has the largest gambling industry? A: Atlantic City
Q: What article of clothing does the lower peninsula of Michigan resemble? A: Mitten
Q: What city in Minnesota borders Lake Superior? A: Duluth
Q: What is the westernmost city in Texas? A: El Paso
Q: "What city is sometimes called ""Nola""?" A: New Orleans
Q: On what ocean sound is Seattle located? A: Puget Sound
Q: "What is the biggest U.S. city whose name starts with ""Fort""?" A: Fort Worth
Q: What is the state animal of Wisconsin? A: Badger
Q: What is the nearest major city to the Hoover Dam? A: Las Vegas
Q: What blue-green rock is the state gemstone of Arizona? A: Turquoise
Q: What unusual religious group are numerous in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania? A: Amish
Q: What type of moss commonly grows on Live Oak and Bald Cypress trees in the southeast? A: Spanish Moss
Q: Which state grows the most corn? A: Iowa
Q: What is the capital of Idaho? A: Boise
Q: What is the largest city on Alabama's Gulf Coast? A: Mobile
Q: In what city would you find Beale Street, famous for its blues clubs? A: Memphis
Q: What is the northernmost city in the United States? A: Barrow, Alaska
Q: What is the least populous borough of New York City? A: Staten Island
Q: In what city might you visit the Alamo or take a stroll on the River Walk? A: San Antonio
Q: What is the biggest city in North Dakota? A: Fargo
Q: What is the southernmost state capital? A: Honolulu
Q: Which state has the lowest population density? A: Alaska
Q: What city is home to the University of Colorado? A: Boulder
Q: What is the largest land animal native to the United States? A: Bison
Q: "On what ""strip"" in Los Angeles would you find famous clubs such as the Roxy and the Viper Room?" A: Sunset Strip
Q: What bridge, between Manhattan and New Jersey, is the world's busiest motor vehicle bridge? A: George Washington Bridge
Q: On what trail can one walk from Maine to Georgia? A: Appalachian Trail
Q: What National Park is located in northwestern Wyoming? A: Yellowstone
Q: What U.S. territory includes the islands of Saint Croix, Saint John, and Saint Thomas? A: U.S. Virgin Islands
Q: What desert, starting with the letter M, can be found in southeast California? A: Mojave Desert
Q: What famous cracked bell can be found in Philadelphia? A: Liberty Bell
Q: Which major city has the highest percentage of African-American residents (82%)? A: Detroit
Q: What small city in the Ozark mountains is famous for its musical theatres? A: Branson, Missouri
Q: What country is located 70 miles due east of Palm Beach, Florida? A: Bahamas
Q: What ocean gulf borders 5 states, including Florida and Texas? A: The Gulf of Mexico
Q: In what mountain range is California's Mt. Whitney located? A: Sierra Nevada
Q: What is the state flower of Kansas? A: Sunflower
Q: What interstate highway connects the cities of Boston and Seattle? A: I-90
Q: What name is given to the vertical bar that divides the sections in a window? A: A MULLION.
Q: Sarawak is the largest of the thirteen states, which comprise which Asian country? A: MALAYSIA
Q: Michael O'Hehir (pronounced O'Hair) was, for many years, a commentator for the BBC on which sporting event? A: THE GRAND NATIONAL
Q: "Which WWII aircraft was known as, ""The Flying Porcupine""?" A: SUNDERLAND FLYING BOAT
Q: Part of the Rootes group, which car company produced a model called the Chamois in the 1960's? A: SINGER
Q: Which TV series featured the characters, Tinker, Eric Catchpole and Lady Jane Felsham? A: LOVEJOY
Q: In 1982, Sarah Jane Hutt was the last English winner of which title? A: MISS WORLD
Q: "From which stage and film musical does the song, ""My Boy Bill"" come?" A: CAROUSEL
Q: What name is given to the naturally occurring alloy of gold and silver, often used in bygone days in the manufacture of coins? A: ELECTRUM
Q: Which spice is produced from the dried leaves of wild marjoram? A: OREGANO
Q: On which island is the city of Syracuse, ancient home to the mathematician and scientist, Archimedes? A: SICILY
Q: What is the name of the enzyme in the human body, which breaks down fats? A: LIPASE
Q: What is the more common name for Vibrissae, found on all feline creatures? A: CATS WHISKERS
Q: "What name is given to the long ""whiskers"" found on some fish of the carp family?" A: BARBELS
Q: Which human facial feature is properly known as a diastema? A: THE GAP BETWEEN THE FRONT TEETH
Q: "How is the priest described in the nursery rhyme, ""The House that Jack Built""?" A: ALL SHAVEN and SHORN
Q: When used in the manufacture of jewellery, which metal is usually alloyed with Platinum? A: IRIDIUM
Q: "What was the name of James Onedin's ship in the TV series ""The Onedin Line""?" A: CHARLOTTE RHODES
Q: Part of British Leyland, which car company produced a model called the Ital in the 1980's A: MORRIS
Q: Who was the last man to win the British Open Golf Championship on three consecutive occasions? A: PETER THOMSON
Q: Adam's Peak, (also called Buddha's or Siva's Peak), stands in which island country? A: SRI LANKA
Q: What name is given to the boards which protect the ends of the roof timbers at the gable end of a house? A: BARGEBOARDS
Q: During which astronomical phenomenon, would a person see Baily's Beads? A: A TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE
Q: Caroline of Ansbach was the wife of which British King? A: GEORGE II
Q: "The film, ""High Society"" was a musical version of which 1939 comedy film, starring Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant?" A: THE PHILADELPHIA STORY
Q: Which French wine region, North of Lyons, produces Chiroubles and Saint Amour red wines? A: BEAUJOLAIS
Q: Who were Manchester Utd's opponents in January 1948, when the highest ever attendance at a Football League match was recorded? A: ARSENAL
Q: Who is the first Scotsman to appear on the reverse of an Bank of England banknote? A: ADAM SMITH
Q: In the bible, which prophet was taken up to Heaven in a fiery chariot? A: ELIJAH
Q: Which actress was married to comedy actor Peter Sellers at the time of his death in 1980? A: LYNN FREDERICK
Q: What is the Latin name for the element Sodium, giving rise to its chemical formula Na? A: NATRIUM
Q: "In the TV series, ""Enterprise"", first aired in 2001, what was the name of the ship's captain, played by actor Scott Bakula?" A: JONATHAN ARCHER
Q: "Which British playwright sprang to fame in 1936 with his comedy, ""French Without Tears""?" A: TERENCE RATTIGAN
Q: During World War II, which of the German leaders was head of the SS? A: HEINRICH HIMMLER
Q: "Who was the unusual duettist with Bing Crosby, on his 1977 Christmas Show, singing their version of ""Little Drummer Boy""? The recording became a big hit five years later." A: DAVID BOWIE
Q: The technique, known as the Eskimo Roll, is used as a manoeuvre in which sport? A: CANOEING
Q: The Western Roll, is a long disused technique, once practised in which sporting event? A: THE HIGH JUMP
Q: "Which British musician had U.K. No 1 hits with his instrumental versions of the tunes, ""Oh Mein Papa"" in 1954, and in 1955 with, ""Cherry Pink and Apple Blossom White""?" A: EDDIE CALVERT
Q: Joseph Goebbels was the head of which Nazi ministry from 1933 until 1945? A: PROPAGANDA
Q: Which award winning play, written by Alan Bennett, later made into a film, is set in the fictional Cutler's Grammar School in Sheffield? A: THE HISTORY BOYS
Q: "Which classical singer sang the theme song ""Where My Heart Will Take Me"", for the TV series, ""Enterprise""?" A: RUSSELL WATSON
Q: The Recreation Cricket Ground in St John's, on the island of Antigua, is also known by the name of which famous West Indian cricketer? A: SIR VIVIAN RICHARDS
Q: "Which actor, star of the 1950 film, ""Sunset Boulevard"", died after a fall at his home in Santa Monica in 1981?" A: WILLIAM HOLDEN
Q: The temple of which of their gods was destroyed by Samson, as his last act of war against the Philistines? A: DAGON
Q: Which creature appears on the current English £10 note alongside Charles Darwin? A: A HUMMINGBIRD
Q: Who won the Rugby League Challenge Cup in 1954, beating Halifax in a replay at Odsal Stadium, before a world record crowd for a Rugby League match of 102,000? A: WARRINGTON
Q: Which wine area, in the Bordeaux region, lies between the River Gironde and the Atlantic coast? A: MEDOC
Q: "The 1942 film, ""Casablanca"" was based on which play, written by Joan Alison and Murray Burnett?" A: EVERYBODY COMES TO RICKS
Q: Which Queen Consort of England was tried for adultery, and barred from her husband's coronation in 1821? A: CAROLINE OF BRUNSWICK
Q: On which racecourse did Frankie Dettori win all seven races on the card in 1996? A: ASCOT
Q: The rap star Marshall Mathers is better known by which stage name? A: EMINEM
Q: Mrs Maria Fitzherbert illegally married which future King of England in 1785? A: GEORGE IV
Q: In which Australian City is St Paul's Cathedral sited opposite Flinders Street station? A: MELBOURNE
Q: Gloucester and England Rugby Union player, Lesley Vainikolo, was born in which country? A: TONGA
Q: "In the 1960's, which jazz pianist wrote the pieces, ""It's a Raggy Waltz"", ""Unsquare Dance"" and ""Blue Rondo a la Turk""?" A: DAVE BRUBECK
Q: "In the 1968 film, ""The Odd Couple"", the part of Oscar Madison was played by Walter Matthau. Which actor played the part in the TV adaptation?" A: JACK KLUGMAN
Q: Who was the Greek God of wine, equivalent to the Roman God Bacchus? A: DIONYSUS
Q: "Which stage and film musical featured the song, ""You Gotta Have Heart""?" A: DAMN YANKEES
Q: Which Jockey rode Shergar to victory in the 1981 Epsom Derby? A: WALTER SWINBURNE
Q: Thojib Suharto was President and dictator of which Asian country from 1968 to 1998? A: INDONESIA
Q: In Neolithic times, what was the purpose of a dolmen? A: A TOMB
Q: "In Shakespeare's play, ""The Tempest"", which character has the title, ""Duke of Milan""?" A: PROSPERO
Q: What was the name of Russia's first permanently manned space station, launched in 1988? A: MIR
Q: In which European Capital is the controversially built Parliament Palace, the second largest building in the world? A: BUCHAREST
Q: In 1976, which Italian town was the scene of a toxic gas leak, containing the poison, Dioxin? A: SEVESO
Q: Which firm owned the factory in Bhopal in India, devastated by a poison gas leak in 1984? A: UNION CARBIDE
Q: In which Asian Capital City is the Potala Palace, now converted to a museum? A: LHASA
Q: "Who was the first female presenter of ITV's, ""News at Ten""?" A: ANNA FORD
Q: "In Shakespeare's play, ""Hamlet"", what is the name of Hamlet's uncle, who usurps the throne, marries Hamlet's mother and becomes King of Denmark""?" A: CLAUDIUS
Q: What is the name of the famous Neolithic passage tomb, situated just east of Navan town, in County Meath, Ireland? A: NEWGRANGE
Q: Who was elected President of the Palestinian National Authority in January 2005? A: MAHMOUD ABBAS
Q: Riding both Papillon in 2000, and Hedgehunter in 2005, which is the only jockey to ride two Aintree Grand National winners in the 21st century? A: RUBY WALSH
Q: "A Which stage and film musical featured the song, ""Sunrise, Sunset""?" A: FIDDLER ON THE ROOF
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of the Moon, equivalent to the Greek Goddess Selene? A: LUNA
Q: "In the 1950's and 60's, which jazz pianist wrote the pieces, ""Misterioso"", ""Ruby My Dear"" and ""Round Midnight""?" A: THELONIUS MONK
Q: St Helens and Gt. Britain Rugby League player, Maurie Fa'asavalu was born in which country? A: SAMOA
Q: In which New Zealand city, at the head of the Otago peninsular, is St Paul's Cathedral? A: DUNEDIN
Q: Who was the mistress of Charles II and mother of the Duke of Monmouth? A: LUCY WALTER
Q: "Which Hollywood legend directed The Godfather trilogy of films and the Vietnam War film, ""Apocalypse Now""?" A: FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA
Q: First published in 1887, which was the first book by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to feature Sherlock Holmes? A: A STUDY IN SCARLET
Q: "Which artist painted the picture, ""Bubbles"", which was used in an advertisement for Pears Soap?" A: MILLAIS
Q: Name the song, sung by Katrina and The Waves, which was last British entry to win the Eurovision Song Contest. A: LOVE SHINE A LIGHT
Q: Which stretch of water, off the S.E. coast of Italy, separates the Adriatic and Ionian Seas? A: STRAITS OF OTRANTO
Q: In his youth, actor Leslie Grantham served ten years in prison for which crime? A: MURDER
Q: Which gaseous element has the Atomic Number 2? A: HELIUM
Q: According to the words of the song, if the rain is Tess, and the fire is Joe, what is the name of the wind? A: MARIA
Q: "Which English authors works include, ""Saturday Night and Sunday Morning"" and ""The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner""?" A: ALAN SILLITOE
Q: In 1994, the Hutu and the Tutsi tribes waged a war of mass genocide in which African country? A: RWANDA
Q: Which famous explorer was killed by natives in the Philippines in 1521? A: FERDINAND MAGELLAN
Q: The Olduvai Gorge, famous for its archaeological finds, is in which African country? A: TANZANIA
Q: Titania is the largest moon of which planet in our solar system? A: URANUS
Q: "Which Shakespeare play contains the line, ""Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania""?" A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: The village of Piltdown, scene of the infamous hoax find of a prehistoric skull in 1912, is in which English county? A: (EAST) SUSSEX
Q: Which famous explorer contracted malaria shortly after his arrival in Goa in 1524, and died on Christmas Eve 1524 at Cochin? A: VASCO DA GAMA
Q: Darfur, scene of mass genocide over the last few years, is part of which African country? A: SUDAN
Q: "Early works of which English playwright include, ""Chicken Soup with Barley"" and ""Roots""?" A: ARNOLD WESKER
Q: "In the 1933 film ""The Private Life of Henry VIII"", starring Charles Laughton, the part of Anne of Cleves was played by Laughton's wife in real life. Can you name this actress?" A: ELSA LANCHESTER
Q: "Which American actress, who committed suicide in Paris in 1979, played the leading female role in the film, ""Paint Your Wagon""?" A: JEAN SEBERG
Q: Which metallic element, the lightest one known, has the Atomic Number 3? A: LITHIUM
Q: Which Lancashire born actor was convicted of conspiracy to intimidate, and sentenced to two years imprisonment in 1972, after his involvement in a building workers dispute in Shrewsbury? A: RICKY TOMLINSON
Q: "Which group won the Eurovision Song contest in 1981 with the song, ""Making Your Mind Up""?" A: BUCKS FIZZ
Q: What name is given to the rectangular piece of cloth wrapped round the waist and legs, knotted at the waist, and worn by Hindus in India? A: A DHOTI
Q: "In the novel by Edgar Allan Poe, who solved the ""Murders in the Rue Morgue""?" A: C AUGUSTE DUPIN
Q: "Which actress, who played the part of Rocky Balboa's wife, alongside Sylvester Stallone, in the ""Rocky"" films of the 1980's, is the sister of Hollywood director Francis Ford Coppola?" A: TALIA SHIRE
Q: How were the comedy duo Ian and Janette Tough better known? A: THE KRANKIES
Q: What word is used to describe animals, which lay eggs? A: OVIPAROUS
Q: What is the name of the blind beggar in R.L.Stevenson's Treasure Island? A: PEW
Q: Which British athlete won the 100 metres gold medal at the 1924 Olympics? A: HAROLD ABRAHAMS
Q: Which palace in Spain takes its name from the colour of its sun-dried red bricks? A: ALHAMBRA
Q: Who was the only English King to be crowned on the field of battle? A: HENRY VII
Q: Which work by Berthold Brecht and Kurt Weil is based on a work by John Gay? A: The THREEPENNY OPERA
Q: Who was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion from 1978-1985, defending his title 20 times before losing to Michael Spinks? A: LARRY HOLMES
Q: What is the name of the mongoose in Rudyard Kipling's 'The Jungle Book'? A: RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
Q: What product is obtained form the tree 'Hevea Braziliensis'? A: LATEX
Q: Who played 'First Voice' in the original BBC radio production of 'Under Milk Wood' (and also in the film version)? A: RICHARD BURTON
Q: The dialect of which Semitic language was spoken by Jesus Christ? A: ARAMAIC
Q: Which solo instrument features in the Largo from Dvorak's New World Symphony? A: COR ANGLAIS
Q: Grandpa Frost is the equivalent of Father Christmas in which country? A: RUSSIA
Q: During WW2, which building was the headquarters of Fighter Command? A: BENTLEY PRIORY
Q: Which boxing Champion was known as 'The Fighting Marine'? A: GENE TUNNEY
Q: Jean Valjean is the central character in which classical novel? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: Where, on the Baltic coast, was the German missile site where V1 rockets were designed and built? A: PEENEMUNDE
Q: The opera ' Beatrice and Benedict' by Berlioz is based on which Shakespeare play? A: MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
Q: What collective name is given to Jews dispersed around the world? A: The DIASPORA
Q: In a children's' book, if Elphaba is the wicked witch of the west, who is the good witch of the South? A: GLINDA
Q: In the title of the detective story by Dorothy L.Sayers, what are the 'Nine Tailors'? A: CHURCH BELLS
Q: 'Behind the Shades' is the autobiography of which controversial sports figure? - A: DUNCAN FLETCHER
Q: "In 1922, who replied ""Wonderful Things"", when asked what he could see through a hole in a wall?" A: HOWARD CARTER
Q: In which childrens' TV programme, narrated by Derek Jacobi, would you see Iggle-Piggle & Upsy-Daisy? A: IN THE NIGHT GARDEN
Q: In art, Lisa Gherardini became better known as whom? A: MONA LISA
Q: In Australia, what is referred to as a 'brumby'? A: WILD HORSE
Q: On what Saint's day was the Battle of Agincourt fought in 1415? A: St.CRISPIN
Q: What is name of the piece of leather on which a barber sharpens a cut-throat razor? A: STROP
Q: What is the name of the theme park in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee? A: DOLLYWOOD
Q: Who patented the first revolver in 1836? A: Samuel COLT
Q: Which of the Four Gospels is thought to be based on eyewitness information? A: St. MARK
Q: In which Shakespeare play is the heroine called Rosalind? A: AS YOU LIKE IT
Q: What is another name for the bird usually called the shrike? A: BUTCHER BIRD
Q: With reference to American cattle, what is the name of a motherless or stray calf? A: DOGIE
Q: Which county won crickets county championship 6 times in the 1960's? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: Who is reputed to have said, 'Today, I have gazed on the face of Agamemnon'?; after discoveries at Mycenae? A: Heinrich SCHLIEMANN
Q: Whom did St.Paul describe as 'his beloved physician'? A: St. LUKE
Q: In 1889, who painted the picture 'Starry Night'? A: Vincent VAN GOGH
Q: Who invented the cotton gin in 1783? A: ELI WHITNEY
Q: In which war did the Battle of Ramillies take place? A: WAR of the SPANISH SUCCESSION
Q: On which island is the children's' TV programme Balamory set? A: MULL
Q: What is the capital of the Middle Eastern emirate, Qatar? A: DOHA
Q: A monument begun in 1948, in the Black Hills of South Dakota , when finished, will be of which American Indian Lakota chief? A: CRAZY HORSE
Q: The film 'Infamous' is about which author? A: Truman Capote
Q: What is the second brightest star in the constellation Orion? A: BETELGEUSE
Q: Who is the Muse of love poetry? A: ERATO
Q: What was the name of William Wordsworth's sister, who was also a poet and pianist? A: Dorothy
Q: Which actor, famous for his portrayal of gangsters, was born Emmanuel Goldenberg in Romania in 1893? A: Edward G Robinson
Q: Which American football team are known as the Vikings? A: Minnesota
Q: Who is the patron saint of ecologists? A: Saint Francis
Q: Of which family is the minnow a member? A: Carp
Q: Mount Mitchell is the highest peak of which American mountain range? A: Appalachian Mountains
Q: Which part of the body is affected by Meniere's Disease? A: Ear
Q: Which film of 1958 starred Ingrid Bergman as missionary Gladys Aylward? A: Inn of the Sixth Happiness
Q: Who succeeded John Quincy Adams as president of the USA in 1829? A: Andrew Jackson
Q: Which stretch of water separates Tasmania from mainland Australia? A: Bass Strait
Q: What nationality is Liverpool FC footballer Sami Hyypia? A: Finnish
Q: Who was Hitler's minister of propaganda? A: Josef Goebbels
Q: What was the Christian name of Judge Jeffreys (1645-1689)? A: George
Q: Who composed the Christmas Oratorio in 1734? A: J S Bach
Q: Which dramatist and poet was murdered by Ingram Frazer in Deptford in 1593? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: In what year did the Aberfan disaster take place? A: 1966
Q: Which US female singer who died in 2008 had hits with 'Shrimp Boats' and 'You Belong To Me'? A: Jo Stafford
Q: Which UK female singer who died in 2008 had hits with 'How much is that doggie in the window' and 'Jimmy Unknown'? A: Lita Roza
Q: In what year did The Great Train Robbery take place? A: 1963
Q: Which poet died of septicaemia in the Aegean Sea in 1915? A: Rupert Brooke
Q: Give a year in the life of English poet, William Blake. A: 1757-1827
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first No. 1 record in the UK? A: All Shook Up
Q: Which famous Hollywood actor was born Roy Harold Scherer in Illinois in 1925? A: Rock Hudson
Q: Which American football team are known as the Steelers? A: Pittsburgh
Q: What part of the body is affected by Brights disease? A: Kidneys
Q: Which 1972 film starred Diana Ross as Billie Holiday? A: Lady Sings The Blues
Q: In the UK it is called a spanner, what do they call it in the USA? A: Wrench
Q: Name the writer of The History Boys, winner of the 2006 Tony award for best play? A: Alan Bennett
Q: Which stretch of water separates the North and South islands in New Zealand? A: Cook Strait
Q: Who succeeded Andrew Johnson as US President in 1869? A: Ulysses S Grant
Q: 'It's Oh So Quiet' and Venus as a Boy' were hit singles for which female artist? A: Bjork
Q: What is the meaning of the adjective lachrymal? A: Tearful
Q: In Roman mythology who was the wife of Jupiter? A: Juno
Q: Who composed the Hungarian Dances in 1869? A: Brahms
Q: What was the Christian name of Lord Byron? A: George
Q: What name was given to the type of art particularly associated with Jackson Pollock? A: (Abstract) Expressionism
Q: In the Addams Family what type of pet was Pugsley's Aristotle? A: Octopus
Q: From whom did Henry Cooper first win the British heavyweight title in 1959? A: Brian London
Q: Which former US world heavyweight champion knocked out Henry Cooper in four rounds in 1966? A: Floyd Patterson
Q: Which US oceanographer led the teams which discovered the wrecks of the Titanic in 1985 and the Bismarck in 1989? A: Robert Ballard
Q: Which football team play their home games at the Don Valley Stadium? A: Rotherham United
Q: Which British comedian was born in Hall Green, Birmingham in 1924 and died in Sydney in 1968? A: Tony Hancock
Q: What was the name of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's dog to whom she famously addressed a poem? A: Flush
Q: Name the year. Churchill makes his famous 'Iron Curtain' speech in Fulton Missouri, Henry Fonda stars as Wyatt Earp in 'My Darling Clementine', and murderer Neville Heath is hanged at Pentonville Prison. A: 1946
Q: Which side finished bottom of the 1st division of the County Cricket Championship in 2008? A: SURREY
Q: When the Marie Celeste left New York on her ill-fated voyage, which Italian port was her destination? A: GENOA
Q: What nationality was Trygve Lie, the first Secretary General of the United Nations? A: NORWEGIAN
Q: On the human body, as what is a furuncle more commonly known? A: A BOIL
Q: "Which poet wrote the line, ""If winter comes, can spring be far behind""?" A: PERCY SHELLEY
Q: Which American state has Boise as its capital, and is known as the Gem State or Potato State? A: IDAHO
Q: The independent girls' school, Roedean, is situated near which south coast town? A: BRIGHTON
Q: Which Midlands club did Sam Allardyce manage, before he took up the position of manager at Bolton Wanderers in 1999? A: NOTTS COUNTY
Q: "Which Canadian born folk singer wrote and recorded the hit song, ""Big Yellow Taxi""?" A: JONI MITCHELL
Q: Donald Neilson, convicted of four murders in 1975, was known by which nickname? A: THE BLACK PANTHER
Q: "The Wurzels No 1 hit record, ""Combine Harvester"", was a parody on which song, a No 1 hit for the singer Melanie in 1971?" A: BRAND NEW KEY
Q: Which English football club won the European Cup in 1982. beating Bayern Munich, 1-0 in Rotterdam? A: ASTON VILLA
Q: Which comedian actor played the part of Ron Glum in the radio programme 'Take It From Here'? A: DICK BENTLEY
Q: Which famous public school is situated n the village of Street in Somerset? A: MILLFIELD
Q: According to Catholic legend which saint mopped the brow of Jesus on his way to Calgary? A: VERONICA
Q: "Which poet wrote the line, 'For men may come and men may go, but I go on forever""?" A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: Which British politician became the tenth Secretary General of NATO in 1999? A: GEORGE ROBERTSON
Q: Which south coast resort has its own symphony orchestra, founded in 1893 and now based in Poole Arts Centre? A: BOURNEMOUTH
Q: Vancouver Island is a part of which Canadian Province? A: BRITISH COLUMBIA
Q: Which artist, a member of the modern school of art, and noted for his paintings of violinists, was born in Russia in 1887, and died in Paris aged 97? A: MARC CHAGALL
Q: Which British composer, together with the tenor Peter Pears, founded the annual music festival at Aldeburgh? A: BENJAMIN BRITTEN
Q: "Created in the 1990's, as a satire of James Bond, what was the name of the character in a number of films, who was originally termed, ""The International Man of Mystery""?" A: AUSTIN POWERS
Q: Which TV producer and scriptwriter, created the TV series, 'Grange Hill'? A: PHIL REDMOND
Q: "Who, in 1678, along with Israel Tonge, fabricated the ""Popish Plot"", a fictitious conspiracy to murder Charles II?" A: TITUS OATES
Q: The salts of which metal are used in the manufacture of calamine lotion? A: ZINC
Q: Who was the mother of the Roman emperor, Nero, who was murdered on nis orders in A.D. 59? A: AGRIPPINA
Q: The merganser is a species of which kind of bird? A: A DUCK
Q: What nationality is the international Rugby Union referee, Alain Rolland? A: IRISH
Q: Which English Rugby Union side play their home matches at Franklin Gardens? A: NORTHAMPTON
Q: "One Australian term for a fool is the word ""galah"". What type of bird is a galah?" A: A COCKATOO
Q: The Annapurna range of peaks stand in which Asian country? A: NEPAL
Q: Who was the third wife of the Roman emperor Claudius, noted for her cruelty and debauchery? A: (VALERIA) MESSALINA
Q: The salts of which poisonous acid are found in rhubarb leaves? A: OXALIC ACID
Q: Because of the outrage caused by the Popish Plot, which Archbishop of Armagh, was executed at Tyburn in 1681, the last Roman Catholic martyr to die in England? In 1975, he was canonised, and became the first new Irish saint for almost 700 years. A: ST OLIVER PLUNKE'TT
Q: "Which local born actor/writer won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay in 1981, for his work on the film, ""Chariots of Fire""?" A: COLIN WELLAND
Q: "Creator, Nat Hiken gave which original title to the ""Phil Silvers Show"", it being changed after a couple of months?" A: YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH
Q: "Which style of art, which flourished briefly in the first part of the 20th century, took its name from the French for, ""Wild Beasts""?" A: FAUVISM
Q: "In the novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", by Charles Dickens, who brought an action against Mr Pickwick, for breach of promise to marry?" A: MRS BARDELL
Q: """Jane, the diary of a bright young thing"", was a cartoon strip that first appeared in Britain in 1932, in which daily newspaper?" A: DAILY MIRROR
Q: What type of creature is a peccary? A: A WILD PIG
Q: Duncan Renaldo played which cowboy character in a famous US TV series? A: Cisco Kid
Q: On which river is the 'Iron Gate'? A: Danube
Q: Which daily newspaper was a colour tabloid that was launched in March 1986 and ceased publication in November 1995? A: Today
Q: What name is given to the energy which a body possesses by virtue of its motion? A: Kinetic Energy
Q: In 1936, Lionel Van Praag won the first world championship in which sport? A: Speedway
Q: In which TV series did the brothers Hoss, Adam and Little Joe appear? A: Bonanza
Q: Whose comic characters include 'Kevin Patterson', 'Julio Geordio' and 'Tim Nice-But-Dim'? A: Harry Enfield
Q: In which Texas city is the Alamo? A: San Antonio
Q: Benjamin Disraeli became the first Earl of . . . where? A: Beaconsfield
Q: In which town does the traditional Furry Dance take place on May 8th each year? A: Helston, Cornwall
Q: Who created the character 'Rip Van Winkle'? A: Washington Irving
Q: In which book does the character Melanie Wilkes appear? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: What name is given to the energy which a body possesses by virtue of its position? A: Potential Energy
Q: Who partnered Aretha Franklin on the 1987 no.1 hit 'I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)'? A: George Michael
Q: What was the name of the state that seceded from Nigeria in 1967 and lasted until 1970? A: Biafra
Q: In which German town or city could you walk in the 'Englische Garten'? A: Munich
Q: Which city is known as 'Queen of the Baltic'? A: Stockholm
Q: Who wrote the opera 'Lakme'? A: Delibes
Q: Jack and Kit Wright, Thomas and Robert Wintour, Ambrose Rookwood and Sir Everard Digby amongst others are all associated with which historical event? A: Gunpowder Plot
Q: Which Sunday newspaper was launched in September 1989 as a 'quality' broadsheet and ceased publication (as a tabloid) in November 1990? A: Correspondent
Q: The PFA footballer and young footballer of the year 1982 were Kevin Keegan and Steve Moran; they were both playing for which club at the time? A: Southampton
Q: Which cruise ship sank in the Antarctic in late 2007, after hitting an iceberg? A: MV Explorer
Q: Who created the character 'Mary Poppins'? A: Pamela L Travers
Q: On which track did the first motor racing Grand Prix take place in 1907? A: Le Mans
Q: What name is given to the stellar explosion caused when nuclear fusion within a massive star ceases and it suffers gravitational collapse? A: (Super)Nova
Q: Whose comic characters include 'Gareth Cheeseman', 'Tony Ferrino' and 'Tommy Saxondale'? A: Steve Coogan
Q: Helen of Troy was originally the Queen of which Greek state? A: Sparta
Q: The fruit granadilla is more commonly known by what name? A: Passion fruit
Q: David Leadbetter is a famous coach, in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Who wrote the operas 'A Life for the Tsar' and 'Russian and Ludmilla'? A: Glinka
Q: Which play features the character Blanche Dubois? A: A Streetcar Named Desire
Q: James Dearden wrote which book, made into a famous film directed by Adrian Lyne, in 1987? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who partnered Peter Gabriel on the 1986 hit 'Don't Give Up'? A: Kate Bush
Q: Which Russian port was the scene of the Potemkin Mutiny in 1905? A: Odessa
Q: Novelist John Buchan's title was first Baron . . . what? A: Tweedsmuir
Q: Who was known as 'the father of the Common Market'? A: Jean Monnet
Q: Nick Bollettieri is a famous coach in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Which gangster was killed in a police ambush outside the Biograph Theatre, Chicago on July 22nd 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: Which inanimate flying object has a bridle and a tail? A: A Kite
Q: What was the name of the province, led by Moise Tshombe, that seceded from the Congo Republic in 1960? A: Katanga
Q: The fruit carambola is more commonly known by what name? A: Star fruit
Q: God's Horse, Lamb Lady, Dowdy Cow and Red Cow of God are country names for which insect? A: Ladybird
Q: What name is given to visible clouds of dust and gas in space? A: Nebulae
Q: Which gangster was killed, along with his partner, in a police ambush in Bienville Parish, Louisiana on May 23rd 1934? A: Clyde Barrow
Q: Charles Webb wrote which book, made into a famous film directed by Mike Nichols, in 1967? A: The Graduate
Q: Who was the first footballer to represent England at schoolboy, youth, amateur, under 23 and full international levels, he went on to have a distinguished managerial career? A: Terry Venables
Q: In which city was Archduke Ferdinand of Austria assassinated in 1914? A: Sarajevo
Q: Who wrote the 'Game, Set & Match' trilogy? A: Len Deighton
Q: Which British actor and singer was a member of the Monkees pop group? A: Davy Jones
Q: Which American car manufacturer is named after the founder of Detroit? A: Cadillac
Q: In an Indian restaurant, what is 'kulfi'? A: Ice cream
Q: Who captained Great Britain's Davis Cup team in 2006 and 2007? A: John Lloyd
Q: What is a loose, sloping mass of debris at the base of a cliff called? A: Scree
Q: What name is given to the figure of rhetoric by which an unpleasant or offensive thing is designated by a milder term? A: Euphemism
Q: Which country changed its name to Botswana on gaining independence in 1966? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Which Australian car manufacturer is a division of the worldwide General Motors? A: Holden
Q: Which Liverpool company began to produce Dinky Toys in 1931 to accompany their Hornby train sets? A: Meccano
Q: A major rival to Hornby train sets were those produced by the Marklin company, from which country did Marklin trains come? A: Germany
Q: Which 1960s TV programme was based on a book by Grace Metalious? A: Peyton Place
Q: In the game Monopoly, which property completes the set with Trafalgar Square and the Strand? A: Fleet Street
Q: Graves Disease is caused by a malfunction of which gland in the human body? A: Thyroid
Q: Graham Nash of the pop group Crosby, Stills & Nash was a former member of which British group? A: The Hollies
Q: Since November 2006 the voice of Sara Mendes da Costa can be heard supplying which service? A: Speaking clock
Q: The Hungarian stew, goulash is flavoured with which pepper? A: Paprika
Q: By what name was the city of Jakarta known until 1942? A: Batavia
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Dogberry appear? A: Much Ado About Nothing
Q: Which item of clothing might be called a filibeg? A: Kilt
Q: Which girl won Britain's first ever gymnastic gold medal in 2006, for her performance on the asymmetric (or uneven) bars at the World Championships? A: Beth Tweddle
Q: Carol Hersee was seen on TV for over 70,000 hours, for what purpose was her picture used? A: Test card
Q: What is the name of the apparatus which measures electrical resistance by equalising the potential at two points of a circuit? A: Wheatstone Bridge
Q: Which children's TV programme is set in 'Sunflower Valley'? A: Bob the Builder
Q: The British and Commonwealth beaches on D-Day were code-named Juno, Gold and what other name? A: Sword
Q: Whose last film was 'Guess Who's Coming to Dinner' in 1967? A: Spencer Tracy
Q: Which very famous door cannot be opened from the outside? A: 10 Downing Street
Q: Which bandleader had 'Here's to the Next Time' as his signature tune? A: Henry Hall
Q: What name would be given to a collector of postcards? A: Deltiologist
Q: Asperger's Syndrome is a milder version of which disorder? A: Autism
Q: In which constellation is the star Deneb? A: Cygnus
Q: Which London landmark contains books and artefacts brought from Alexandria? A: Cleopatra's Needle
Q: What is the date of Australia Day? A: 26th January
Q: Which series of children's books (and TV programme) is set on the island of Sodor? A: Thomas the Tank Engine
Q: What name is given to a song or poem of lament, especially for the dead? A: Elegy
Q: What is the name of the stiff, full white skirt worn by men in some parts of Greece and Albania? A: Fustanella
Q: Whose first film was 'Intermezzo', starring with Leslie Howard, in 1939? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: The third largest cities in Spain and Venezuela share which name? A: Valencia
Q: In computing, what is the common term used to mean a person's internet diary or journal? A: Blog
Q: In which constellation is the star Spica? A: Virgo
Q: Henry 8th became King because of the death of his elder brother, what was his name? A: Arthur
Q: Name the mediaeval siege weapon used for hurling missiles? A: Mangonel or Trebuchet
Q: The first line of which nineteenth century novel is 'Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress'? A: Middlemarch
Q: Name the Californian Congresswoman, who in January 2007 became the first female Speaker of the US House of Representatives? A: Nancy Pelosi
Q: In which game are there moves called 'ruy lopez' and 'en passant'? A: Chess
Q: Which birds belong to the order 'Strigiformes'? A: Owls
Q: During the 1990's, two footballers won the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award - Michael Owen in 1998. Who won the award in 1990? A: Paul Gascoigne
Q: Which Scottish town was granted city status as part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of 2002? A: Stirling
Q: "Which group had a 1978 UK No. 1 hit with ""Three Times a Lady""?" A: The Commodores
Q: Which British car manufacturer produced the Gazelle, Vogue and Chamois models? A: Singer
Q: "In TV's ""Heartbeat"" Geoffrey Hughes plays which character?" A: Vernon Scripps
Q: In Italian cuisine what type of foodstuff is cassata? A: Ice cream
Q: Which official is responsible for security in the House of Commons? A: Sergeant-at-Arms
Q: Which Welsh town was granted city status as part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of 2002? A: Newport
Q: "Which group had a 1978 UK No. 1 hit with ""Dreadlock Holiday""?" A: 10cc
Q: "In TV's ""Last of the Summer Wine"" Frank Thornton plays which character?" A: Truly
Q: In Italian cuisine what type of foodstuff are pomodori? A: Tomatoes
Q: Which British car manufacturer produced the Regal, Rebel, and Kitten? A: Reliant
Q: Lord Wakeham resigned from which public body in January 2003? A: Press Complaints Commission
Q: What nationality is tennis player Gustavo Kuerten? A: Brazilian
Q: Which of the towns in North Yorkshire has the largest population? A: Harrogate
Q: "Which pop musician wrote the music for the 1984 film ""The Killing Fields""?" A: Mike Oldfield
Q: The butcher bird is an alternative name for which bird of prey? A: The Shrike
Q: Which Cheshire town has the motto 'Sal est Vita' (salt is life) on its coat of arms? A: Northwich
Q: Who (January 2008) is Director General of the CBI? A: Richard Lambert
Q: The dabchick is an alternative name for which diving bird? A: Little Grebe
Q: The airport that serves which US city now handles the most passenger traffic per year? A: Atlanta
Q: "Which pop musician wrote the music for the 1983 film ""Local Hero""?" A: Mark Knopfler
Q: "Who published his broadcasting memoirs entitled ""Life on Air""?" A: David Attenborough
Q: In a mosque, the mirhab indicates what? A: Direction of Mecca '
Q: In which town is the University of Surrey? A: Guildford
Q: Where is the National Museum of Photography, Film and Television? A: Bradford
Q: What is the Scottish name for a semicircular hollow on a hillside, formedby a glacier? A: Corrie
Q: What are 'Old Speckled Hen', 'Black Douglas' and 'Zebedee'? A: Ales
Q: "Which of the UK armed forces has the motto ""Per Mare Per Terram""?" A: Royal Marines
Q: What type of pregnancy is developed outside of the womb? A: Ectopic
Q: Which Puccini opera is set in the court of the Chinese emperor? A: Turandot
Q: What is a lion called in Swahili? A: Simba
Q: "Who was in the films ""Zelig"", ""Stardust Memories"", and ""Broadway Danny Rose""?" A: Woody Allen
Q: Which comedian's real name is Jim Moir? A: Vic Reeves
Q: Which Coronation Street character has the middle name Sibelius? A: Ashley 'Sibelius' Peacock
Q: Melissa Joan Hart plays which TV character (the same as the Roman name for the River Severn)? A: Sabrina
Q: "Which of the UK armed forces has the motto ""Utrinque Paratus""?" A: Parachute Regiment
Q: Which comedian's real name is Chris Collins? A: Frank Skinner
Q: In which town is the University of Warwick? A: Coventry
Q: In which Metropolitan borough are Middleton, Heywood, Littleborough, Milnrow and Wardle? A: Rochdale
Q: In which Derbyshire town is the famous Tramway Museum? A: Crich
Q: Which Verdi opera opens with a banquet in the palace of the Duke of Mantua? A: Rigoletto
Q: "Who starred in the films ""Perfect World"", ""No Way Out"", and ""Tin Cup""?" A: Kevin Costner
Q: Which animal's name is also a term for a junior member of the St. John Ambulance Brigade? A: Badger
Q: Which company makes 'Budweiser' beer? A: Anheuser-Busch
Q: Which Government department is responsible for the Meteorological Office? A: Ministry of Defence
Q: Which North Yorkshire seaside resort is the starting point for the Cleveland Way long-distance walk? A: Filey
Q: As at November 2006, who is the coach of St Helens Rugby League team? A: Daniel Anderson
Q: Which BBC TV programme traces the family trees of celebrities? A: Who Do You Think You Are
Q: Pop star Madonna adopted a child from which country in October 2006? A: Malawi
Q: How many member states are there in the British Commonwealth of Nations? A: Fifty-three
Q: How many Cinque Ports are there on the south coast of England? A: Seven
Q: The now defunct food hamper firm Farepak was based in which city? A: Swindon
Q: What colour is the ribbon on the Victoria Cross? A: Crimson
Q: In which year did Desmond Tutu win the Nobel Peace Prize; WPC Yvonne Fletcher shot at Libyan Embassy; Winter Olympics open in Sarajevo? A: 1984
Q: The city of Cork, Ireland, lies on which river? A: River Lee
Q: Who described life in the Royal Navy as: 'rum sodomy, and the lash'? A: Winston Churchill
Q: What is the capital of the Republic of Sudan? A: Khartoum
Q: What colour in the intense pigment in cadmium sulphide? A: Yellow
Q: In which decade was Beatrix Potter born; Atlantic Cable completed; Seward purchases Alaska from Russia? A: 1860's
Q: Herdwick and Swaledale are breeds of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: "Which group had a 1982 No. 1 hit with ""Do You Really Want To Hurt Me""?" A: Culture Club
Q: Who presents the 'graveyard shift', midnight to 3 pm, on BBC Radio 2? A: Janice Long
Q: Cowboy Copas and Hawkshaw Hawkins died with which other country music star in a 1963 plane crash? A: Patsy Cline
Q: Scurvy is a disease resulting from deficiency of which vitamin? A: Vitamin C
Q: Which is the oldest of the English classic horse races? A: St. Leger
Q: St Helens RLFC won all three trophies in Super League 2006. Which is the only other club ever to do this? A: Bradford Bulls
Q: Ginger Baker, Jack Bruce, and who else formed the pop group 'Cream'? A: Eric Clapton
Q: What is the name of Dangermouse's amphibious nemesis? A: Baron Greenback
Q: Britney Spears was married for two days to who? A: Jason Alexander
Q: Which bird is the symbol of the RSPB? A: Avocet
Q: What is the celestial visible light spectrum better known as? A: A rainbow
Q: Who, in the OT of the Bible, was the sister of Moses and Aaron? A: Miriam
Q: Which comedian swam the English Channel for charity in 2006? A: David Walliams
Q: Which team defeated Manchester United in the 2006 Carling Cup? A: Southend United
Q: The group 'Abba' was formed in which European capital city in 1971? A: Stockholm
Q: An oenophilist is a connoisseur of what? A: Wine
Q: What is the chief port of Iraq? A: Basra
Q: Deva is the Roman name for which English city? A: Chester
Q: What type of bird is a ptarmigan? A: Grouse
Q: Which song opened the 1985 Live Aid concert? A: Rocking All Over the World
Q: What weapon is used the Japanese art of kendo? A: Bamboo staves
Q: "Who wrote the novel The Virgin and the Gypsy""?" A: D. H. Lawrence
Q: Which gem is associated with a 60th wedding anniversary? A: Diamond
Q: In which decade was the Suez Canal opened; Abrahan Lincioln elected American President; Prince Albert died of typhoid? A: 1860's
Q: The adjective Cestrian is associated with which English city? A: Chester
Q: John Reid holds which Government post as at October 2006? A: Home Secretary
Q: How many countries now form the European Union? A: Twenty-seven
Q: Who partnered George Michael in the group 'Wham'? A: Andrew Ridgeley
Q: The English classic horse race The Derby in run at which race course? A: Epsom
Q: "Who wrote the tragedy-opera ""The Masked Ball"" (""Ballo in Maschera"")?" A: Giuseppe Verdi
Q: In which British city is the National Railway Museum? A: York
Q: Bow Street is what colour on a Monopoly board? A: Orange
Q: Which English sculptor is famous for large abstract figures, and reclining figures, such as the one outside Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge? A: HENRY MOORE
Q: """Lord Malquist and Mr Moon"" is the only novel written by which famous British playwright?" A: TOM STOPPARD
Q: In the USA, which New England State has no Atlantic coastline? A: VERMONT
Q: What type of fruit is an early Red Windsor? A: AN APPLE
Q: """O Soave Fanciulla"" and ""Si, Mi Chiamo Mimi"" are arias from which Puccini opera?" A: LA BOHEME
Q: "In the 1980's, which MP was known as ""The Chingford Skinhead""?" A: NORMAN TEBBITT
Q: A Koala Bear is not a bear. To which family of animals does it belong? A: MARSUPIALS
Q: Which British woman, in 2007, became he oldest person ever to be awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: DORIS LESSING
Q: The Hill of Tara, where once Irish kings were crowned, is in which Irish county? A: MEATH
Q: After their poor showing in the 2007 Rugby Union world cup, which New Zealand coach was made to re-apply for his job, a task which he successfully achieved? A: GRAHAM HENRY
Q: Gertrude was the mother of which eponymous Shakespearian character? A: HAMLET
Q: In architecture, what is a campanile? A: A BELL TOWER
Q: Which Persian emperor was defeated by the Greeks at the naval Battle of Salamis in 480 B.C.? A: XERXES
Q: Which 1977 romantic comedy film, directed by Woody Allen, had Diane Keaton in the title role? A: ANNIE HALL
Q: In the TV cartoon series, Homer Simpson shares his middle name with which colourful bird? A: JAY
Q: In the Simpson's TV cartoon series, what was Marge Simpson's maiden name? A: BOUVIER
Q: Which liquid, also known as milk plasma, remains after milk has been curdled and strained? A: WHEY
Q: For her role as Lindy Chamberlain, in which 1988 film, was Meryl Streep nominated for the Oscar for best actress? A: A CRY IN THE DARK
Q: At which narrow pass did Leonidas and 300 Spartans fight to the death, in order to slow down the Persian army? A: THERMOPYLAE
Q: In which John Steinbeck novel does a man named Adam, have two sons, Cal and Aaron? A: EAST OF EDEN
Q: The Cliffs of Moher, Ireland's most visited tourist attraction, stand on the coast of which Irish county? A: CLARE
Q: Which man, born in Cornwall in 1911, was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1983? A: WILLIAM GOLDING
Q: The Horned Toad is not a toad. To which family of creatures does it belong? A: LIZARDS.
Q: "Having been the M.P. for this constituency since 1970, Labour M.P. Dennis Skinner has acquired the nickname, ""The Beast of ---- where?" A: BOLSOVER
Q: """Vissi d'Arte, Vissi d'Amore"", ""E Lucevan le Stelle"" and ""Recondita Armonia"" are all arias from which Puccini opera?" A: TOSCA
Q: Which vegetable has types named Greyhound and January King? A: CABBAGE
Q: Who is the fictional pilot created by W. E. Johns? A: BIGGLES
Q: "Who sculpted Oscar Wilde's tomb, and the figures ""Day and Night"" on the Headquarters of London Transport?" A: JACOB EPSTEIN
Q: Which city in Southern France, contains a Roman amphitheatre? Nearby stands the famous Pont du Gard, a Roman built aqueduct? A: NIMES
Q: "Which King of England allegedly ordered the murder of the ""Princes in the Tower"", although some historians refute this claim?" A: RICHARD III
Q: Who was the first athlete to win successive Olympic Gold Medals in the 1500m, since before the First World War, doing so in 1980 and 1984? A: SEBASTIAN COE
Q: In which 18th century ballad opera do the characters MacHeath, Jenny Diver and Sukey Tawdrey appear? A: THE BEGGARS OPERA
Q: "Which pop groups first singles release, in 1979, was entitled, ""Sultans of Swing""?" A: DIRE STRAITS
Q: "Which Lawn Tennis player of the 1970's later had a brief acting career, appearing in the 1983 James Bond film, ""Octopussy""?" A: VIJAY AMRITRAJ
Q: What type of foodstuff is a jalapeno? A: A PEPPER
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""'Allo, 'Allo"", what was the name of Rene Artois' wife, played by Carmen Silvera?" A: MADAME EDITH
Q: """Hey There"" and ""Hernando's Hideaway"" are songs from which stage & film musical?" A: THE PAJAMA GAME
Q: In which modern day African country is the town of Ujiji, where Livingstone & Stanley famously met in 1871? A: TANZANIA
Q: What is the proper name of the flowering plant commonly known as the Red Hot Poker? A: KNIPHOFIA
Q: What was the first name of the famous 18th century British sailor and explorer, Captain Cook? A: JAMES
Q: What nationality was the writer Oliver Goldsmith? A: IRISH
Q: What nationality was the composer Edvard Grieg? A: NORWEGIAN
Q: Which garden plant, with small, white bell shaped flowers, has the Latin name Convallaria Majalis? A: LILY OF THE VALLEY
Q: Which Cypriot born, Greek general led the guerrilla organisation, EOKA, in Cyprus, during the 1950's? A: GEORGE GRIVAS
Q: In India, what are the Eastern and Western Ghats? A: MOUNTAIN RANGES
Q: """Music of the Night"" and ""All I Ask of You"" are songs from which stage musical?" A: THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""'Til Death Us Do Part"", what was the name of Alf Garnett's daughter, played by Una Stubbs?" A: RITA
Q: What is the more common name of the fruit of the shrub, vaccinum myrtillus, sometimes known as the whortleberry? A: THE BILBERRY
Q: Which gas, which constitutes a danger in mines, is also known as Firedamp or Marsh Gas? A: METHANE
Q: "Which famous sportsman, whose real Christian names were George Herman, was nicknamed, ""The Sultan of Swat""?" A: BABE RUTH
Q: "Who composed the music for ""The Threepenny Opera"", the 1928 adaptation of ""The Beggar's Opera""?" A: KURT WEILL
Q: Who was the first British athlete to win an Olympic medal in the 400 m since 1936, winning the silver medal in Atlanta in 1996? A: ROGER BLACK
Q: Which King of England was the father of both The Black Prince and John of Gaunt? A: EDWARD III
Q: Which German City, close to the border with Luxembourg was the birthplace of Karl Marx, and contains the Porta Nigra, a well-preserved Roman city gate? A: TRIER
Q: Which legendary queen is reputed to have founded Carthage? A: DIDO
Q: Which Italian defender was voted the 2006 FIFA World Footballer of the Year? A: Fabio Cannavaro
Q: "The ""Cirque de Soleil"" show, based on the Beatles music, is called what?" A: Love
Q: "In which West Yorkshire town is TV's ""Last of the Summer Wine"" set?" A: Holmfirth
Q: Reuben and Rose Mattus established which American ice cream in 1961? A: Haagen-Dazs
Q: To which MP did Michael Portillo lose his Enfield Southgate seat in 1997? A: Stephen Twigg
Q: Which African football nation reached the last 16 in the 2006 World Cup? A: Ghana
Q: Elizabeth Ann Bloomer was the maiden name of which US First Lady? A: Betty Ford
Q: Goathland, near Whitby, is the setting for which TV show? A: Heartbeat
Q: "The ""Cirque de Soleil"" originated in which city of the North Americas?" A: Montreal
Q: In which New England State are the HQ of Ben and Jerry's ice cream; also well known for maple syrup and cheese and dairy products? A: Vermont
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1997 film ""The Saint""?" A: Val Kilmer
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""The Walrus and the Carpenter""?" A: Lewis Carroll
Q: The late Jean Muir founded what type of store in London in 1966? A: Fashion house
Q: Chennai, formerly Madras, is the capital of which Indian state? A: Tamil Nadu
Q: Which designer (born 1952) was known as the 'enfant terrible of French fashion'? A: Jean-Paul Gaultier
Q: Who owns the London restaurants Petrus, Boxwood Cafe, Murano, etc? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: "Which Madrid born actress won the 2006 European Film Award, and the 2007 Goya Best Lead Actress Award for the film ""Volver""?" A: Penelope Cruz
Q: "Who wrote the play, later a film, ""The History Boys""?" A: Alan Bennett
Q: Which designer, restaurateur, and retailer owns Habitat, etc? A: Terence Conran
Q: Which conflict was fought between Gt. Britain and Spain from 1739-1748? A: War of Jenkins' Ear
Q: What colour is the Wirral Line on the Merseyrail network map? A: Green
Q: In 2006, which British gymnast was the first ever to win a world title? A: Beth Tweddle
Q: Who is the Chief Executive Officer of Ryanair? A: Michael O'Leary
Q: What is the name of the blue line on the Merseyrail map? A: Northern Line
Q: Who defeated Phil Taylor to win the 2007 PDC world darts championship? A: Raymond van Barneveld
Q: Damon Albarn, Paul Simonon, Simon Tong, and Tony Allen released which successful album in January 2007? A: The Good, The Bad and The Queen
Q: Who is the principal conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic? A: Sir Simon Rattle
Q: Which singer/band member married Gwyneth Paltrow in 2003? A: Chris Martin
Q: Who designed the reconstruction of the Berlin Reichstag Dome in 1992? A: Norman Foster
Q: Bramley, Roundhay, Farsley, etc., are in which English city? A: Leeds
Q: The 2010 FIFA World Cup will be staged where? A: South Africa
Q: HDL and LDL lipoproteins are commonly classified as what? A: Cholesterol
Q: Which midtown Manhattan railway station is the busiest in America? A: Penn(sylvania) Station
Q: The statistical measure of the weight of a person, scaled according to height, is called what? A: Body Mass Index
Q: A Lusophone is a person who speaks what language? A: Portuguese
Q: The world's most crossed international land border connects Tijuana to which major Californian city? A: San Diego
Q: "The films ""Fever Pitch"" (2005 version), ""Good Will Hunting"", ""The Departed"" are all set in which New England city?" A: Boston
Q: "Which stage musical features the songs ""Easy Terms"", and ""Tell Me It's Not True""?" A: Blood Brothers
Q: What is the principal official language of Andorra? A: Catalan
Q: The sixth and first strings of a guitar are tuned to which note? A: E
Q: In which year did King John grant Liverpool its charter? A: 1207
Q: Which stage musical features 'Audrey II', the man-eating plant? A: Little Shop of Horrors
Q: In which was the World Expo held in Brisbane, Queensland; Wimbledon defeat Liverpool in the FA Cup; Nelson Mandela celebrated his 70th? A: 1988
Q: Kate Moss currently advertises which brand of cosmetics? A: Rimmel
Q: In which sport is there a knocking point location? A: Archery
Q: What name does B. B. King always give to his guitars? A: Lucille
Q: Which country in the Americas is named after a line on the map? A: Ecuador
Q: Which four-letter word can mean; an article of clothing, a field position in a sport or to lose one's footing? A: Slip
Q: What is the name of the new Cunard liner launched by the Duchess of Cornwall in December 2007? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which maths instrument is used to measure an angle? A: Protractor
Q: "Which New Zealand born scientist won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1908 for ""his investigations into the disintegration of the elements, and the chemistry of radioactive substances""?" A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: The site of the Battle of Bannockburn is close to which Scottish town or city? A: Stirling
Q: Glynis Barber and her husband Michael Brandon starred together in which TV detective series? A: Dempsey and Makepeace
Q: Which maths instrument is used to draw a circle? A: (A Pair of ) Compass(es)
Q: Who plays Dr House in the US TV medical series 'House'? A: Hugh Laurie
Q: Lundy Island is in which body of water? A: Bristol Channel
Q: Scone, where the ancient Kings of Scotland were crowned, is close to which town or city? A: Perth
Q: Which Emperor of the Ottoman Empire was known as 'The Magnificent' or 'The Law Giver'? A: Suleiman
Q: Which Egyptian was the sixth Secretary General of the UN from 1992 to 1996? A: Boutros Boutros-Ghali
Q: With which musical instrument is Charlie Parker most closely associated? A: Saxophone
Q: What is the name of the city that was built to house workers on the Hoover Dam? A: Boulder City
Q: In which palace is the throne of Ottoman Emperor Selim 1st? A: Topkapi
Q: Brownsea Island is in which body of water? A: Poole Harbour
Q: Randolph Lerner is the chairman of which Premiership football club? A: Aston Villa
Q: "Which Dane won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922 for ""his services in the investigation of the structure of atoms and of the radiation emanating from them""?" A: Niels Bohr
Q: Nick Clegg became the new leader of the Lib Dems after an election in December 2007, who did he beat? A: Chris Huhne
Q: What, in the natural world, is 'hyssop'? A: A herb
Q: Which now famous film actor came to prominence playing Dr Doug Ross in the TV series ER? A: George Clooney
Q: In the French Revolutionary calendar, what kind of weather is suggested by the name of the month Nivose? A: Snow
Q: Who was Chief of State of Vichy France from 1940 to 1944, he was sentenced to death for collaboration but the sentence was commuted to life imprisonment? A: Philippe Pétain
Q: In which Dickens novel does Sergeant Buzfuz appear? A: Pickwick Papers
Q: What is the capital of the central Italian region of Umbria? A: Perugia
Q: In Greek myth, which nymph detained Odysseus on her island for seven years? A: Calypso
Q: With which musical instrument is Charlie Mingus most closely associated? A: Double Bass
Q: What, in the natural world, is 'earthstar'? A: A fungus
Q: Acetylsalicylic acid is a commonly taken drug, what is its usual name? A: Aspirin
Q: Which King of England (after Harold 2nd) was killed by an arrow? A: William II
Q: In which country was the 'Great Trek' of 1836/37? A: South Africa
Q: Which 4 time Prime Minister of France (twice in the Vichy government) was executed by firing squad in 1945? A: Pierre Laval
Q: Which sport is played by the 'Cornish Pirates'? A: Rugby Union
Q: Prior to the election of Nick Clegg as leader of the Lib Dems, who had stood in as acting leader? A: Vince Cable
Q: Which cartoon characters were created 50 years ago by the Belgian Peyo? A: Smurfs
Q: Ascorbic acid is a vital part of the diet, how is it commonly known? A: Vitamin C
Q: In Greek myth, who was the wife of Odysseus who remained faithful during his long absence? A: Penelope
Q: Which English King was married to Catherine of Valois? A: Henry 5th
Q: Who is the Roman equivalent to the Greek God, Dionysus? A: BACCHUS
Q: Of which Canadian Province is Toronto the capital city? A: ONTARIO
Q: "Who won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Anita in the 1961 film, ""West Side Story""?" A: RITA MORENO
Q: William Frawley and Vivian Vance played Fred and Ethel Mertz in which popular 1950's American TV comedy show? A: I LOVE LUCY
Q: Which tennis player beat Boris Becker in the all German men singles final at Wimbledon in 1991? A: MICHAEL STICH
Q: "The title of Frederick Forsyth's novel, ""The Dogs of War"" is taken from a line in which Shakespeare play?" A: JULIUS CAESAR
Q: In which US State is Jamestown, site of the first settlement in 1609? A: VIRGINIA
Q: "Name of the character, played by Clint Eastwood, in the 1960's TV series, ""Rawhide""?" A: ROWDY YATES
Q: """Camelot"" in 1960 was the last Broadway musical of which famous duo?" A: LERNER and LOEWE
Q: "The wine ""Lachryma Christi"" is made from grapes grown on the slopes of which mountain?" A: VESUVIUS
Q: Which King of England, from 1399-1413, was born at Bolingbroke Castle in Lincoln shire in 1366? A: HENRY IV
Q: For which county did Harold Larwood play cricket from 1924-38? A: NOTTINGHAMSHIRE
Q: What was the name of the Nottinghamshire fast bowler, who, together with Harold Larwood, took part in the infamous Bodyline tour in Australia, in 1932-33? A: BILL VOCE
Q: Born in Rouen in France in 1442, who was King of England from 1461 to 1483? A: EDWARD IV
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1959 film, ""Our Man in Havana""?" A: ALEC GUINNESS
Q: The green coloured melon liqueur, Midori, was originally produced in which country? A: JAPAN
Q: "Who played the part of Major Seth Adams in the 1950's TV series, ""Wagon Train""?" A: WARD BOND
Q: Jamestown is the major seaport and capital of which island colony? A: ST HELENA
Q: Sir Joseph Porter and Ralph Rackstraw are characters in which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: H.M.S. PINAFORE
Q: "The character of Archie Bunker in the American comedy series, ""All in the Family"", was based on which character from a BBC series?" A: ALF GARNETT
Q: "Who won the Oscar for best actress in 1977, for her title role in the film, ""Annie Hall""?" A: DIANE KEATON.
Q: What is the capital city of the Canadian province of Manitoba? A: WINNIPEG
Q: Who is the Greek equivalent of the Roman God, Cupid? A: EROS
Q: Litmus is a mixture of dyes used as an indicator. It is extracted from which types of plant? A: LICHENS
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Gt. Britain at the outbreak of The First World War? A: HERBERT ASQUITH
Q: The Ministry for State Security of Communist East Germany was more commonly known by which abbreviated name? A: STASI
Q: Original Mock Turtle soup is made from the head of which animal? A: CALF
Q: In which area of the world is Queen Maud Land situated? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: Who was the husband of Elizabeth Taylor, killed in an air crash in 1958? A: MIKE TODD
Q: What name is usually given to the larvae of insects, such as the dragonfly or mayfly? A: NYMPHS
Q: Which common, gaseous element has the atomic Number 8, and an Atomic Weight of 16? A: OXYGEN
Q: Allan Quartermain is the hero of which adventure novel, first published in 1895? A: KING SOLOMON'S MINES
Q: Gymnasium instructors often use a machine to determine a person's BMI reading. For what does the letter B stand? A: BODY
Q: The Bloody Assizes under Judge Jeffries occurred during the reign of which English King? A: JAMES II
Q: Alan Breck Stewart is one of the leading characters in which adventure novel, first published in 1886? A: KIDNAPPED
Q: With the Atomic Number 3, which is the first metal in the Periodic Table of elements? A: LITHIUM
Q: "Which toothpaste was advertised with the slogan, ""You'll Wonder Where the Yellow Went""?" A: PEPSODENT
Q: Which physical characteristic easily distinguishes weevils from other types of beetle? A: A LONG SNOUT
Q: Who was the actress wife of Clark Gable, killed in an air crash in 1942? A: CAROLE LOMBARD
Q: What name is given to the underwater plateaus, which lie off the South East coast of Newfoundland, and which form a fishing area of major importance? A: THE GRAND BANKS
Q: Black Puddings differ in colour from White or Mealy Puddings because they contain which additional ingredient? A: BLOOD
Q: "Who wrote the book on which the 1959 film, ""Ben Hur' was based?" A: LEW WALLACE
Q: Which English athlete became the first woman to run a sub five-minute mile in 1954? A: DIANE LEATHER
Q: What was the name of the repressive militia employed by the Duvaliers in Haiti? A: TONTON MACOUTE
Q: Who succeeded David Lloyd George as British Prime Minister in 1922? A: ANDREW BONAR LAW
Q: Yosemite National Park lies in which American State? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: "In the 1970's song ""Daniel"" by Elton John, to which country was Daniel travelling?" A: SPAIN
Q: Which is the only miracle mentioned in all four gospels? A: FEEDING OF THE FIVE THOUSAND
Q: What name is given to a ring shaped reef, enclosing a lagoon? A: AN ATOLL
Q: Because of its appearance, what common alternative name is given to iron pyrites? A: FOOL'S GOLD
Q: Which was the 50th and last state to become part of the USA? A: Hawaii
Q: What is the common name for the flower Bellis Perennis? A: Daisy
Q: What nationality was the pirate William 'Captain' Kidd who was hanged in 1701? A: Scottish
Q: Where are the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund? A: Washington
Q: Which flowers name translates from the Greek for Water Vessel or Water Carrier? A: Hydrangea
Q: Which is the smallest state by area of the United States? A: Rhode Island
Q: In which city are the headquarters of OPEC (Organisation of Petrol Exporting Countries)? A: Vienna
Q: Which pirate commanded the ship the Queen Anne's Revenge? A: Blackbeard
Q: The Tan Hill Inn in North Yorkshire has what distinction? A: The highest pub in Britain
Q: Who was shot by Mehmet Ali Agca in 1981? A: Pope John Paul II
Q: How many bones does the adult human body have? A: 206
Q: Which is the oldest regiment of the regular British Army? A: Coldstream Guards
Q: Which language does the word Safari originate from? A: Swahili
Q: After how many years marriage do you celebrate your Emerald Anniversary? A: 55
Q: In Greek myth which was the sacred mountain of Apollo, and home to the muses? A: Parnassus
Q: What does 3G mean in mobile phone advertisements? A: Third Generation
Q: From which language do we get the word bungalow? A: Hindi
Q: In Greek myth who solved the Riddle of the Sphinx? A: Oedipus
Q: Which European country has the Kuna as its currency? A: Croatia
Q: Which member of the Royal Family also has the titles Earl of Merioneth and Baron Greenwich? A: Duke of Edinburgh
Q: In which city are the headquarters of Greenpeace International? A: Amsterdam
Q: Until 31.12.2005, the tolar was the currency of which European country? A: Slovenia
Q: Who was the brother of Sherlock Holmes? A: Mycroft
Q: What was the maiden name of Wallis Simpson, the Duchess of Windsor? A: Warfield
Q: b In the Flintstones cartoons what is the name of Fred and Wilma's daughter? A: Pebbles
Q: According to the Bible who was the first Christian martyr? A: Saint Stephen
Q: Botswana was until 1966 known as what? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Which fictional family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace, Springfield? A: The Simpsons
Q: What is the last word in the New Testament? A: Amen
Q: What are the Friendly Islands in the Pacific now known as? A: Tonga
Q: Grantley Adams is the airport of which Caribbean island? A: Barbados
Q: What was the constituency of former Prime Minister Tony Blair? A: Sedgefield
Q: Which was the first X-rated film to have won the Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: In athletics which is always the first event in the Decathlon? A: 100 metres
Q: Which was the first colour film to win the Oscar for Best Picture? A: Gone With the Wind
Q: In the world of entertainment who is Melvin Kaminsky better known as? A: Mel Brooks
Q: Which is the densest planet in the solar system? A: Earth
Q: Which rock singer's real name is Paul Hewson? A: Bono
Q: Which prison is located at Princetown in Devon? A: Dartmoor
Q: Which Roman road connected London to York? A: Ermine Street
Q: Which musician, 1890-1967, was known as 'The King of Jazz'? A: Paul Whiteman
Q: What does a vulcanologist study? A: Volcanoes
Q: Who was known as the Railway King? A: George Hudson
Q: Which Roman road linked Exeter and Lincoln? A: Fosse Way
Q: What does a deltiologist collect? A: Picture postcards
Q: What is the more common name for a polygraph? A: Lie Detector
Q: What colour is zero on a roulette wheel? A: Green
Q: In which country did Che Guevara die? A: Bolivia
Q: The OSS (Office of Strategic Services) founded in 1942 was a precursor to which security organisation? A: CIA
Q: With what activity do you associate the names Bernard Leach and Clarice Cliff? A: Pottery
Q: What would a French musician be playing if he was using a batterie? A: A drum kit
Q: What is the modern equivalent of the medieval musical instrument the sackbut? A: Trombone
Q: Which British Cathedral has the highest spire? A: Salisbury
Q: Which football league team's nickname is the (red) Imps? A: Lincoln City
Q: In 1968 Gary Sobers was the first cricketer to hit six sixes in an over. Who was the bowler? A: (Malcolm) Nash
Q: Which future PM was the eldest son of Lord Dunglass? A: Alec Douglas Home
Q: Which car manufacturer made a model called GT4O? A: Ford
Q: What nickname is given to a 2 wood in golf? A: Brassie
Q: To which school of art did the painters Derain, Viamink and the young Matisse belong? A: The Fauves
Q: Who was the housekeeper in Daphne du Maurier's 'Rebecca'? A: Mrs Danvers
Q: Apart from the USA, Canada and British possessions, which other country from the Americas actively took part in WW2, declaring war on the Axis countries in 1942? A: Brazil
Q: Which famous directors last film was 'Family Plot' in 1976? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: Which unit of measurement was originally defined as one minute of arc along a meridian of the Earth? A: Nautical Mile
Q: Whose theme tune was 'Take the A Train'? A: Duke Ellington
Q: What industrial process was once conducted in Bold St, Liverpool? A: Rope
Q: Who wrote the book Whisky Galore in 1947? A: Compton Mackenzie
Q: What does 'Carpe diem' translate as? A: Seize the Day
Q: Who said 'Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun'? A: Mao-Tse-Tung
Q: b Name one of the 3 'J's for which Dundee is traditionally known? A: Jute, Jam and Journalism
Q: Who wrote 'The Birds' in 1952, a short story on which Hitchcock based his film? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: Which Bombay-born former Daily Telegraph journalist is the BBC sports editor? A: Mihir Bose
Q: In what make of aircraft did Chuck Yeager break the sound barrier in October 1947? A: Bell
Q: The Seminole native tribe of Indians are indigenous to which American state? A: Florida
Q: Which Labour Party leader was described as 'a desiccated adding machine' by Aneurin Bevan? A: Hugh Gaitskell
Q: What is the capital of Nigeria? A: Abuja
Q: Which English football league team's nickname is the Millers? A: Rotherham
Q: Which car company produced the Elf and Kestrel models? A: Riley
Q: Which company produced the WW1 aircraft the 'Camel'? A: Sopwith
Q: Which Welsh cathedral is the smallest in Great Britain? A: St Asaph
Q: K is the international registration plate of which Asian country? A: Cambodia
Q: Which famous.cricket player was born on 7th March 1952 in St Johns, Antigua? A: Sir Viv Richards
Q: What is the name of the system used to determine the winning scores, in rain-interrupted one day cricket matches? A: Duckworth-Lewis
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in Rodney Street, Liverpool? A: W E Gladstone
Q: Which Shakespeare play has the stage direction 'Exit pursued by a bear'? A: The Winter's Tale
Q: 'I am a man more sinned against than sinning' is a quotation from which Shakespeare play? A: King Lear
Q: From which musical does the song 'Till There Was You' come? A: The Music Man
Q: What was the name of the last steam locomotive to be commissioned by British Railways, in 1960? A: Evening Star
Q: The arbalest was a variety of which weapon? A: Crossbow
Q: In which hospital was the first heart transplant performed? A: Groote Schuur
Q: What is the national currency of Paraguay? A: Guarani
Q: In what year did Roald Amundsen reach the South Pole for the first time? A: 1911
Q: A 9 iron is the modem equivalent of which historical golf club? A: Niblick
Q: Mrs Fitzherbert was the mistress of which English king? A: George IV
Q: Who is the patron saint of Germany? A: St Boniface
Q: Of what is St Jude the patron? A: Lost causes
Q: What is the appropriate nickname of the New Zealand basketball team? A: The Tall Blacks
Q: What nickname is given to the Australian Association Football International team? A: The Socceroos
Q: In 'FawIty Towers' Manuel claimed his pet rat was a hamster, but from where? A: SIBERIA
Q: Who in Greek mythology was the mother of Clytemnestra and Helen? A: LEDA
Q: Which architect designed Blenheim Palace? A: Sir JOHN VANBRUGH
Q: Which planet has moons called Triton and Nereid? A: NEPTUNE
Q: People hoping to follow which career are trained at Norland College? A: NANNIES
Q: In the Rupert Bear stories, what was the name of the pug dog? A: ALGY
Q: Which German novelist, a Nobel prize winner in 1999, wrote 'A Wide Field' and 'The Tin Drum'? A: GUNTHER GRASS
Q: Which Saint was the father of the Virgin Mary? A: ST JOACHIM
Q: Who was the first man to swim 100 metres in less than a minute? A: JOHNNY WEISSMULLER
Q: What common name is given to the lowest temperature at which a material gives off enough flammable vapour for it to ignite? A: FLASH POINT
Q: For which county did Mike Gatting play cricket? A: MIDDLESEX
Q: What was the word for an Indian soldier serving under the British in India? A: SEPOY
Q: In Norse mythology, what is the name of Odin's eight-legged horse? A: SLEIPNIR
Q: In warfare, what name is given to a hastily constructed temporary defence or a parapet a few feet high, the name deriving from the approximate height that it is built to? A: BREASTWORK
Q: In which children's TV programme did you see Mrs Goggins and Tom Pottage? A: POSTMAN PAT
Q: In which Shakespeare play would you find the characters Gertrude, Laertes and Horatio? A: HAMLET
Q: Whose wedding was the main event of the last episode of Dad's Army? A: CORPORAL JONES
Q: Which architect worked with Sir Charles Barry on the new Palace of Westminster? A: Augustus PUGIN
Q: Minus 273 degrees Celsius is known as what? A: ABSOLUTE ZERO
Q: From which musical does the song 'Anything you can do' come? A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: Which American won the discus Gold medal at four consecutive Olympics between 1956 and 1968? A: AL OERTER
Q: Which French author wrote 'Nana', 'Germinal' and `J'Accuse'? A: EMILE ZOLA
Q: Iqualuit is the capital of which Canadian autonomous Inuit territory created in 1999? A: NUNAVUT
Q: Who in the Bible was the mother of Isaac? A: SARAH
Q: Tagalog is a language native to which country? A: PHILLIPINES
Q: A naevus is the medical term for what? A: A BIRTHMARK
Q: Which herb is usually used in the tomato base for a pizza? A: OREGANO
Q: Which philosopher wrote the 'The Critique of Pure Reason'? A: IMMANUEL KANT
Q: What device did US computer engineer Douglas Englebart invent in 1969? A: The COMPUTER MOUSE
Q: Who wrote the short story on which the 2006 film 'Brokeback Mountain was based? A: E. ANNIE PROULX
Q: Which newspaper became 'The Morning Star' in 1966? A: The DAILY WORKER
Q: In the words of a popular song, from which hotel can 'you check out but never leave'? A: HOTEL CALIFORNIA
Q: What, in the world of computing, did Larry Page and Sergey Brin found? A: GOOGLE
Q: Which common tree has the Latin name Aesculus Hippocastanum? A: HORSE CHESTNUT
Q: What was the name of the 'Acid Bath Murderer'? A: John HAIGH
Q: By what Treaty in 1713 was Gibraltar ceded to Britain in perpetuity? A: TREATY of UTRECHT
Q: What was the name of the 'Brides in the Bath Murderer'? A: George SMITH
Q: Which brothers own the Daily Telegraph? A: BARCLAY BROTHERS
Q: The hallux is the medical term for which part of the body? A: BIG TOE
Q: In 1947, a research physicist Chester Carlson set up which company to sell his invention, an office machine? A: XEROX
Q: Yoruba is a language spoken in which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: Who wrote the screenplay for the film 'The Madness of King George'? A: ALAN BENNETT
Q: As a figure of speech, what is something hinted or implied without being definitely stated? A: INNUENDO
Q: Julian Bream is a virtuoso mainly on which instrument? A: GUITAR
Q: Who originated the philosophy of 'Utilitarianism'? A: JEREMY BENTHAM
Q: Barbara Hulanicki founded which chain of fashion shops, famous in the 1960s? A: BIBA
Q: Which common tree has the Latin name Acer pseudoplatanus? A: SYCAMORE
Q: Which actor played the lead in the film 'Air Force One'? A: HARRISON FORD
Q: Which word is defined as 'an Arctic plain of permanently frozen subsoil, with dwarfed vegetation'? A: TUNDRA
Q: Which league football dub are nicknamed 'The Bantams'? A: BRADFORD CITY
Q: Which Shakespeare tragedy takes place in both Venice and Cyprus? A: Othello
Q: The mesosphere, at 50km to 80-90km altitude above Earth's surface, is directly above which other layer? A: Stratosphere
Q: "Which English Poet Laureate wrote ""The Faerie Queene""?" A: Edmund Spencer
Q: Who was the third President of the USA; he died on July 4th, 1826? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: "Which Irish rock band released the albums ""Boy"", ""October"", and ""War""?" A: U2
Q: Fagus sylvatica is the botanical name for which common forest tree? A: Beech
Q: "Who composed the oratorio ""A German Requiem"", also a quintet for clarinet and strings, etc?" A: Johannes Brahms
Q: A boxer between 155-160 lb. (72.6 kg) is classed in which weight? A: Middleweight
Q: Which Old Testament prophet was summoned by the Witch of Endor? A: Samuel
Q: In which year was the Battle of Gettysburg; David Lloyd George born; the first section of the London Underground opened? A: 1863
Q: The liqueur Cherry Heering is produced in which country? A: Denmark
Q: Which English chemist isolated the metals sodium and magnesium, etc? A: Sir Humphry Davy
Q: "Who directed the 1990 film ""Dances With Wolves""?" A: Kevin Costner
Q: The flag of which European country is a red-white-green horizontal tricolour? A: Hungary
Q: Which now retired English football referee booked Croatian Josip Simunic three times (playing against Australia) in the 2006 World Cup? A: Graham Poll
Q: Which unit of dry volume was defined as containing eight gallons? A: (Imperial) Bushel
Q: Which dish usually contains apple, nuts, celery, and a mayonnaise-based dressing? A: Waldorf Salad
Q: "Which late film actress (real name Harlean Carpentier) said ""Excuse me while I slip into something more comfortable""?" A: Jean Harlow
Q: "What is the name of the baker in TV's ""Camberwick Green""?" A: Mickey Murphy
Q: Which daughter of Agamemnon was sacrificed for a fair wind? A: Iphigenia
Q: Government by the military is called what? A: Stratocracy
Q: Nereid and Triton are satellites of which planet? A: Neptune
Q: At 51° 23' E, what is the easternmost point of the African continent? A: Cape Hafun
Q: Which Shakespeare play takes place in both Bohemia and Sicily? A: The Winter's Tale
Q: What is the lowest part of the Earth's atmosphere, which may be 2 km high above the Earth's surface? A: Troposphere
Q: Who was the father of King Richard the Second of England? A: Edward the Black Prince,.
Q: "Who wrote ""The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy""?" A: Laurence Sterne
Q: Who was appointed as first President of the British Royal Academy? A: Sir Joshua Reynolds
Q: "Which English rock band's albums included ""Communique"", ""Love Over Gold"", ""On Every Street""?" A: Dire Straits
Q: The WW2 Guadalcanal Campaign was on which of the Pacific islands? A: Solomon Islands
Q: "Who wrote and narrated the TV series ""In Search of Myths and Heroes""?" A: Michael Wood
Q: "Who composed the oratorio ""Elijah"" and an ""Italian Symphony""?" A: Felix Mendelssohn
Q: "Which English author wrote a trilogy of fantasy novels entitled ""His Dark Materials""?" A: Philip Pullman
Q: A boxer between 123-126 lb. (57.2 kg) is classed in which weight? A: Featherweight
Q: In the New Testament, who is father of John the Baptist? A: Zacharias
Q: In which year was Mata Hari arrested; the Battle of Cambrai fought; King George the Fifth changed the Royal family surname to Windsor? A: 1917
Q: "Who wrote the lines of poetry 'Hail to thee, blithe spirit! Bird thou never wert""?" A: (Percy Bysshe) Shelley
Q: The melon based drink midori is produced in which country? A: Japan
Q: "Who won the Best Director and Best Picture Oscars for the 1982 film ""Gandhi""?" A: Richard Attenborough
Q: Which Imperial liquid measure was defined as containing five fluid ounces? A: Gill
Q: Which dish usually comprises raw vegetables, hard boiled eggs, anchovies, tuna and olive oil? A: Niçoise Salad
Q: "Which late actress (real first names Ruth Elizabeth), said: ""Fasten your seat belts, it's going to be a bumpy night""?" A: Bette Davies
Q: Thomas the Tank Engine lives at a big station on which island? A: Sodor
Q: Ergatocracy is a type of government by whom? A: Workers
Q: Titan and Rhea are major satellites of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: Chrissie Hynde is a vocalist/guitarist with which rock band? A: The Pretenders
Q: Which Latin phrase means 'sincere' or 'in good faith'? A: Bona Fide
Q: What was the surname of the brothers who developed a paper-thin, malt flavoured toasted flake of maize? A: Kellogg
Q: In the first verse of the nursery rhyme 'Old King Cole', what did he call for besides his pipe and bowl? A: His Fiddlers Three
Q: Jacques Cousteau's famous boat shares its name with which form of West Indian music? A: Calypso
Q: Travelling west along the M4 motorway, which county would you enter as you left Berkshire? A: Wiltshire
Q: What word is painted on the road surface in Ireland to mean the same as 'Give Way' in Britain? A: Yield
Q: "Which film featured the hit song ""I've had the time of my life""?" A: Dirty Dancing
Q: Sunderland stands on which river? A: Wear
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 1998 with the novel 'Amsterdam'? A: Ian McEwan
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in New Brunswick, Canada? A: Bonar Law
Q: Who wrote symphonies nicknamed 'Paris' and 'Prague'? A: Mozart
Q: In cookery, what name is given to a cooked mixture of equal parts of butter and flour? A: Roux
Q: Belgian Kriek beer is flavoured with which fruit? A: Cherry
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 1990 with the novel 'Possession'? A: A.S. Byatt
Q: By what name was model Lesley Hornby better known? A: Twiggy
Q: Which British Prime Minister was a cousin of Rudyard Kipling? A: Baldwin
Q: Who discovered that coal-tar naphtha and rubber could make cloth waterproof? A: Mackintosh
Q: Which form of motor racing takes place on a straight 440 yard course? A: Drag racing
Q: Which type of helicopter is named after the warm wind that blows down the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains? A: Chinook
Q: The alcoholic drink 'Mirabelle' is flavoured with which fruit? A: Plums
Q: Who said that in the future everyone would be famous for fifteen minutes? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Norwich stands on which river? A: Wensum
Q: Which 2003 film is based on the activities of Rylstone Women's Institute? A: Calendar Girls
Q: Apart from London, in which other British city is there a place called Charing Cross? A: Glasgow
Q: Travelling north along the M1 motorway, which county would you enter as you left Hertfordshire? A: Bedfordshire
Q: Who was King of Scotland between Duncan and Malcolm Canmore? A: Macbeth
Q: Who invented the road safety feature 'cat's eyes'? A: Percy Shaw
Q: Who was the female star of the TV police series 'Cat's Eyes'? A: Jill Gascoigne
Q: At which sport do Great Britain and USA play for the Westchester Cup? A: Polo
Q: Turin is the major city of which region of Italy? A: Piedmont
Q: In cookery what is the chief ingredient along with egg in making mayonnaise? A: Olive oil
Q: What was the code name for the German invasion of Russia in World War 2? A: Barbarossa
Q: "Which film featured the hit song ""Take My Breath Away""?" A: Top Gun
Q: Which admiral assumed command at Trafalgar after the death of Nelson? A: Collingwood
Q: Which hero was the son of Zeus by Alcmene? A: Hercules
Q: A dish described as la Bretonne' is garnished with which vegetable? A: Beans
Q: In the world of animals, what is meant by the word 'ungulate'? A: Having hoofs
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Hungry as the Sea'? A: Wilbur Smith
Q: Which physicist proposed the Quantum theory? A: Max Planck
Q: Which is the longest muscle in the human body? A: Sartorius
Q: What name is commonly given to the theatre produced by the playwrights Beckett, Ionesco, Genet, Pinter and others? A: Theatre of the Absurd
Q: Which Russian was the first man to walk in space? A: Alexei Leonov
Q: Which English King married Henrietta Maria, the daughter of Henry 4th of France? A: Charles 1st
Q: What is the name of Nick Park's film animation company? A: Aardman
Q: Florence is the major city of which region of Italy? A: Tuscany
Q: A dish described as 'Parmentier' includes which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: Which astronomer proposed the theory of the expanding universe? A: Edwin Hubble
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Chesapeake'? A: James Michener
Q: How many pounds are there in one hundredweight? A: 112
Q: What is the weight in pounds of a gallon of water? A: 10
Q: Who was the first American to walk in space? A: Ed White
Q: Name the ancient civilised region bordered by the two rivers, Tigris and Euphrates? A: Mesopotamia
Q: "Who, born in Reading in 1903, called his autobiography ""Life Among Antiques""?" A: Arthur Negus
Q: In American Football, how many points are awarded for a 'safety'? A: Two
Q: In which county is the National Nature Reserve of Barton Hills? A: Bedfordshire
Q: Sanford Airport is located close to which US city? A: Orlando
Q: A new 50p coin was issued in 2007 showing a fleur-de-lys embossed on a globe, it was issued to celebrate the anniversary of what? A: Scouting
Q: Peter Parker is the secret identity of which comic book character? A: Spiderman
Q: Britain's oldest working theatre, built in 1766, is called the 'Old Vic', in which city is it? A: Bristol
Q: Which was the first European country to give women the vote when they voted in the National elections of 1906? A: Finland
Q: Prior to Virginia Wade in 1977, who was the previous British winner of a Grand Slam tennis singles tournament? A: Sue Barker
Q: What is the popular name of Tchaikovsky's Symphony no.6 in B minor? A: Pathetique
Q: Bruce Banner is the secret identity of which comic book character? A: The Incredible Hulk
Q: Lion's Mane, Moon and Compass are types of which creature? A: Jellyfish
Q: Which band of the 1960s and 1970s had the following line-up: Graeme Edge, Mike Pinder, John Lodge, Ray Thomas and Justin Hayward? A: Moody Blues
Q: Which novel won a Pulitzer Prize for Alice Walker? A: The Colour Purple
Q: In 1972, Hawkwind had their only UK top ten hit with which song? A: Silver Machine
Q: "Who threatened to ""thcream and thcream and thcream until I'm thick""?" A: Violet Elizabeth Bott
Q: How is the Chief Gentleman Usher to the Sovereign and Usher to the Order of the Garter more commonly known? A: Black Rod
Q: What was Sherlock Holmes' first case? A: A Study in Scarlet
Q: Who was the respectable Victorian gentleman who became known as the 'King of Saucy Postcards'? A: Donald McGill
Q: Which American TV sitcom featured the families of sisters Jessica Tate and Mary Campbell? A: Soap
Q: The Pink Sea Fan is an endangered species found in the sea around the coast of Britain, what is it? A: Coral
Q: Which 2002 Martin Scorsese film, set in the Five Points district, is loosely based on a 1928 novel by Herbert Asbury? A: Gangs of New York
Q: Which car company make an SUV (sports utility vehicle) called the `RAV 4'? A: Toyota
Q: Which was the last European country to give full voting rights to women, in 1989? A: Switzerland
Q: What is the medical term for the protrusion of an organ or tissue through a wall of the cavity in which it is usually contained? A: Hernia
Q: Name either of the two main protagonists of the Seven Weeks War of 1866? A: Austria and Prussia
Q: Which car company make an SUV (sports utility vehicle) called the 'CRY'? A: Honda
Q: Achilles and Hector appear as characters in which Shakespeare play? A: Troilus and Cressida
Q: Who was the actor, who died in July 2006, who starred as the TV detective 'Crane' and appeared in the advertising campaign for Barrett Homes? A: Patrick Allen
Q: The Hedge-Sparrow is more properly known by which name? A: Dunnock
Q: Sana'a is the capital of which country? A: Yemen
Q: In which British city is the Traverse Theatre? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which country joined the EEC at the same time as UK and Ireland in 1973? A: Denmark
Q: Which singer recorded the very successful album 'Back to Black'? A: Amy Winehouse
Q: The Shuttleworth Collection, based in Bedfordshire, is an important National Museum; of what is it a collection? A: Aeroplanes
Q: Haddon Hall in Derbyshire was used by the BBC to represent which property in a 2006 classic serial? A: Thornfield Hall
Q: Which 1854 opera was the first in Wagner's Ring Cycle? A: Das Rheingold
Q: Who wrote the book 'Tobacco Road'? A: Erskine Caldwell
Q: Who was Poet Laureate from 1930 to 1967? A: John Masefield
Q: Which 1951 novel by Nikos Kazantzakis became even more controversial when Martin Scorsese's film of the book was released in 1988? A: The Last Temptation of Christ
Q: The King of Navarre and the Princess of France appear as characters in which Shakespeare play? A: Love's Labours Lost
Q: Who is the MP for Witney, Oxfordshire? A: David Cameron
Q: The 'merle' is another name for which common bird? A: Blackbird
Q: The Thirty Years War was a conflict between France, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands on one side against Austria, who were supported by which other country? A: Spain
Q: Podgorica is the capital of which country? A: Montenegro
Q: In the English calendar, which is the first Quarter Day? A: Lady Day
Q: Which US President introduced Thanksgiving Day? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who was the only bachelor President of the USA? A: James Buchanan
Q: Which river, the fifth longest in Europe, is Portugal's longest? A: Tagus
Q: Who wrote the play 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: In the children's TV programme 'The Flowerpot Men', what was the name of the tortoise? A: Slowcoach
Q: Which city was home to Marco Polo? A: Venice
Q: In which county is the preserved heritage steam railway the 'Watercress Line'? A: Hampshire
Q: Which nymph kept Odysseus on an island for seven years? A: Calypso
Q: The tenor Rolando Villazon is from which country? A: Mexico
Q: Which Suffolk town has hosted an annual music festival since 1948? A: Aldeburgh
Q: Which golfer was the first British winner of the US Masters, winning in 1988? A: Sandy Lyle
Q: Which children's TV programme featured a toad named Gabriel and a rag doll named Madeleine? A: Bagpuss
Q: Named after the Belgian-born chemist who invented it in about 1907, what was the first commercial plastic (made from formaldehyde and phenol)? A: Bakelite
Q: Who had a hit with 'What becomes of the broken hearted' in 1966 and again in 1974? A: Jimmy Ruffin
Q: What was the title of the Ronnie Barker sitcom in which he played a Welsh photographer? A: The Magnificent Evans
Q: In which Italian city was Christopher Columbus born? A: Genoa
Q: Who won her first Best Actress Oscar in 1934 and her last in 1982? A: Katherine Hepburn
Q: What product is made by the company 'Crocs Inc'? A: Shoes
Q: Which mythological reptilian creature could kill with a single glance? A: Basilisk
Q: What is the most southerly of the UK shipping forecast areas? A: Trafalgar
Q: What part of the body is affected by Meniere's Syndrome? A: (Inner) ear
Q: Who was the first British golfer to win the World Match-Play Championship, beating Sandy Lyle in the final in 1987? A: Ian Woosnam
Q: Alberto Contador won which major sporting event in 2007? A: Tour de France
Q: Who was the last Duchess of York before Sarah Ferguson? A: Queen Mother
Q: The tenor Juan Diego Florez is from which country? A: Peru
Q: Labanotation, published by Rudolph Laban in 1928, is used to record movements of what? A: (Ballet) Dancers
Q: Which musical was originally titled 'Welcome to Berlin'? A: Cabaret
Q: Which Sussex hill is the site of the Battle of Hastings? A: Senlac
Q: Who wrote the children's classic 'Charlotte's Web'? A: E.B. White
Q: The flag of which Canadian province includes the cross of St Andrew? A: Nova Scotia
Q: What part of the body is affected by Paget's Disease? A: Bones
Q: Invented by Alexander Parkes in about 1856 and originally called Parkesine, what was the first thermo-plastic? A: Celluloid
Q: Which of the UK shipping forecast areas is named after the founder of the Meteorological Society? A: Fitzroy
Q: What name is given to the science or study of drugs? A: Pharmacology
Q: Whitehorse is the capital of which Canadian territory? A: Yukon
Q: Which London landmark was built to commemorate Lord Nelson's and the Duke of Wellington's victories? A: Marble Arch
Q: What is the name of the main mountain system of Mexico? A: Sierra Madre
Q: How are Rochester, Chatham and Gillingham known collectively? A: Medway Towns
Q: In 'The Lord of the Rings' what are Sting and Glamdring? A: Swords
Q: Which orchestra traditionally plays at the 'Last Night of the Proms' each September? A: BBC Symphony
Q: Which American rock and roll pianist had a hit with song `Blueberry Hill'? A: FATS DOMINO
Q: Of which king was Eleanor of Castile queen? A: EDWARD I
Q: Which people of Kenya and Tanzania are particularly noted for their warriors? A: MASAI
Q: Which is the brightest star in the northern constellation of Bootes? A: ARCTURUS
Q: Which European country contains the ski resorts of Davos and Klosters? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Which daughter of King Priam prophesied the fall of Troy, but was not believed? A: CASSANDRA
Q: What is the capital of Qatar? A: DOHA
Q: By what name is the Australian echidna also known? A: SPINY ANTEATER
Q: Which Italian town, at the foot of a hill containing a Benedictine Monastery was destroyed during heavy fighting in 1944? A: CASSINO
Q: In which European country is the resort of Antibes known for Roman remains? A: FRANCE
Q: What is the wind of force 12 or more on the Beaufort scale called? A: HURRICANE
Q: In what year did the Falkands War take place? A: 1982
Q: Which word, Italian for air, is used to describe a solo song with instrumental accompaniment in opera? A: ARIA
Q: From which Asian country did calico originally come? A: INDIA
Q: Which fungal disease of trees was first described in the Netherlands? A: DUTCH ELM DISEASE
Q: What was the sequel to Lewis Carroll's 'Alice's Adventure in Wonderland? A: THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS
Q: Which acrobatic garden bird has the Latin name parus caeruleus? A: BLUE TIT
Q: To which dramatist was the actress Anne Bracegirdle mistress? A: WILLIAM CONGREVE
Q: What was the stage name of the American-born operatic soprano Maria Kalageropoulos? A: MARIA CALLAS
Q: Which breed of dog, bred for hare coursing and racing, can reach speeds of over 40mph? A: GREYHOUND
Q: Which hard dark wood is traditionally used for the black keys on a piano? A: EBONY
Q: Which Catholic missionary and Nobel laureate died in 1997? A: MOTHER TERESA
Q: What is the largest cemetery in the United States? A: ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY
Q: Who starred as unconventional English teacher John Keating in the 1989 film Dead Poets Society? A: ROBIN WILLIAMS
Q: Who wrote children's stories Little Lord Fauntleroy and The Secret Garden? A: FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT
Q: Which Scottish town is the administrative centre of the Highland Region? A: INVERNESS
Q: Which English prison reformer campaigned for the improvement of conditions at Newgate in the early 19th century? A: ELIZABETH FRY
Q: To which genus of plants does the snapdragon belong? A: ANTIRRHINUM
Q: What sort of creature is a whirligig? A: A WATER BEETLE
Q: Which unsuccessful plot of 1820 was led by Arthur Thistlewood? A: THE CATO STREET CONSPIRACY
Q: Which British philologist was hanged for the murder of Daniel Clark in 1759? A: EUGENE ARAM
Q: Who anointed Saul as the first King of Israel? A: SAMUEL
Q: Which former MP wrote The Four Feathers and stories featuring Inspector Hanaud? A: A E W MASON
Q: James Hutton is generally regarded as the founder of which scientific discipline? A: GEOLOGY
Q: Of which ocean is the White Sea a gulf? A: ARCTIC
Q: Which British poet wrote the verse satire Don Juan? A: LORD BYRON
Q: What sort of instruments are Timbal, tabla and bodhran? A: DRUMS
Q: For which British contralto singer did Elgar write his Sea Pictures? A: DAME CLARA BUTT
Q: Which US Vice President killed his political rival Alexander Hamilton in a duel? A: AARON BURR
Q: Which Czech author wrote The Trial and The Castle? A: FRANZ KAFKA
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the father of Rehoboam? A: SOLOMON
Q: Who invented the Kodak camera? A: GEORGE EASTMAN
Q: Who wrote the poem The Faerie Queen? A: EDMUND SPENSER
Q: Which county won the 1997 County Championship in cricket for the first time? A: GLAMORGAN
Q: In the Bible, the Acts of the Apostles was written by which Evangelist? A: LUKE
Q: In which English county is Dunkery Beacon, at 1705 foot, the highest point? A: SOMERSET
Q: What have Hinkley Point, Trawsfynydd and Hunterston in common? A: NUCLEAR POWER STATIONS
Q: "Which comedian in the 1960's had the catch-phrases, ""Swinging"" and ""Dodgy""?" A: NORMAN VAUGHAN
Q: Selden, an escaped convict, was a character in which Sherlock Holmes novel by Conan Doyle? A: THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES
Q: In which English county are the towns of Letchworth, Cheshunt and Bishop's Stortford? A: HERTFORDSHIRE
Q: Which bird of prey shares its name with a leisure time pursuit? A: A HOBBY
Q: In the culinary world, what French name is given to a small spit or skewer? A: A BROCHETTE
Q: Which is the third book of the Old Testament? A: LEVITICUS
Q: What is the name of the Government laboratory at the centre of the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in 2007? A: PIRBRIGHT
Q: "Mae West's immortal line ""Come up and see me sometime"" was spoken to which Hollywood actor?" A: CARY GRANT
Q: A louisette was the original name for which cutting device? A: A GUILLOTINE
Q: In which county in Northern Ireland are the towns of Ballymena, Larne and Carrickfergus? A: COUNTY ANTRIM
Q: "Where, in the novel ""The Count of Monte Christo, by Alexandre Dumas, does the Abbe Faria befriend Edmond Dantes during his time in prison?" A: THE CHATEAU D'IF
Q: "Tommy Steele went to No 1 in the UK charts in 1956 with his cover version of the song ""Singing the Blues"". Which American singer also reached No 1 in the U.K. with his version of the same song?" A: GUY MITCHELL
Q: "Which popular British comedian had as his catch-phrase, ""You Lucky People""?" A: TOMMY TRINDER
Q: What have Fawley, Stanlow and Milford Haven in common? A: OIL REFINERIES
Q: "Who composed the music to the ballet, ""Sylvia"", first performed in 1876?" A: LEO DELIBES
Q: Which 1965 Beatles song was re-released in 1989 by Bananarama in aid of Comic relief? A: HELP
Q: In which English county is Westonbirt, home of the Forestry Commission National Arboretum? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: "Which German born super-model, actress and singer currently hosts the TV show, ""Germany's Next Top Model""?" A: HEIDI KLUM
Q: The Battle of Culloden, in 1746, was fought close to which Scottish city? A: INVERNESS
Q: Of which musical instrument is a chanter a component part? A: BAGPIPES
Q: What name is given to the official in the Roman Catholic Church, appointed to state the case for the opposition, when considering beatification or canonisation of a candidate? A: DEVIL'S ADVOCATE
Q: Who was King of England exactly 1000 years ago (i.e. 1007)? His reign was marked by a defensive war against Viking invaders. A: ETHELRED II
Q: Two European golfers won their first majors titles in 1985. Sandy Lyle won the Open Championship at Sandwich, but which man won the U.S. Masters that year? A: BERNHARD LANGER
Q: How many players are there in a netball team? A: SEVEN
Q: To which genus of trees does the willow belong? A: SALIX
Q: Which war was ended in 1648 with signing of the Treaty of Westphalia? A: THE THIRTY YEARS WAR
Q: In March 2005, 25 year old Johnson Beharry became the first new owner of which item for nearly 25 years? A: A VICTORIA CROSS
Q: Which legendary film cowboy rode a horse named Topper? A: HOPALONG CASSIDY
Q: What name is given to the Aboriginal device, which is used to propel a spear more forcibly and accurately? A: A WOOMERA
Q: Hors D'Oeuvres, usually consisting of marinated vegetables, or cured meats, are known by what name in Italy? A: ANTIPASTI
Q: What was the name of the horse ridden by the famous cowboy actor, Gene Autry? A: CHAMPION
Q: In July 2005, who was the Brazilian electrician killed by the Metropolitan Police at Stockwell tube station? A: JEAN CHARLES DE MENEZES
Q: The signing of which treaty in 1902 ended the Second Boer War? A: TREATY OF VEREENIGING
Q: Which African country was known, from 1960 until 1971 as the Democratic Republic of Congo? A: ZAIRE
Q: To which genus of trees does the Maple belong? A: ACER
Q: How many chukkas are normally played in a game of polo? A: SIX
Q: Which American golfer, winner of three majors, was tragically killed in a plane crash in 1999? At the time of his death, he was the reigning U.S. Open champion? A: PAYNE STEWART
Q: In the Bible, who wiped the blood from the face of Jesus on his way to Calvary? A: ST VERONICA
Q: What name is given to a blunt large-edged needle, used to draw tape through openwork? A: A BODKIN
Q: What is the country of origin of Gruyere cheese? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: The liqueur, Chartreuse, is named after the monastery situated near which city in S.E France? A: GRENOBLE
Q: "Which Afro American super model, TV personality and singer hosts the TV show, ""America's Next Top Model"" and also has her own daytime TV chat show?" A: TYRA BANKS
Q: In which part of the British Isles is Scapa Flow, where the UK 's chief naval base was situated during the two World Wars? A: THE ORKNEYS
Q: Which US crime writer also wrote under the name of Evan Hunter? A: Ed McBain
Q: Who became the 100th Archbishop of Canterbury in 1961? A: Dr Michael Ramsey
Q: What is the SI unit of force? A: Newton
Q: What spirit drink is the base of a Tom Collins cocktail? A: Gin
Q: Which is the only US state with just one bordering US state? A: Maine
Q: In which year did all of the following occur: QE2 arrives in New York on her maiden voyage, the Kray twins were jailed for life and Boeing 747 makes its first test flight? A: 1969
Q: The Wendigo is a mythical creature in the folklore of which native people? A: Native Americans
Q: What was the name of King Harold of England's brother who fought against him at the Battle of Stamford Bridge? A: Tostig
Q: In which year did all of the following occur: Prime Minister imposes direct rule on Northern Ireland, Idi Amin expels 50,000 Asians in 3 months and St Helens win the Rugby League Challenge Cup? A: 1972
Q: How many points are awarded for a touchdown in American football? A: Six
Q: Which British writer also wrote under the name of Jack Harvey? A: Ian Rankin
Q: What type of fruit is a kumquat? A: Orange
Q: In the TV sitcom 'Friends' what is the name of Phoebe's twin sister? A: Ursula
Q: The son of Hannah, his name meaning 'Name of God' who was the last of the Old Testament Hebrew judges? A: Samuel
Q: In the Old Testament who led the Israelites into the Promised Land? A: Joshua
Q: The Bunyip is a mythical creature in the folklore of which native people? A: Australian aborigine
Q: Give a year in the life of composer Franz Josef Haydn. A: 1732-1809
Q: Originating in 1956, what is the double-barrelled name of the US Antarctic research station situated at the South Pole? A: Amundsen-Scott
Q: In Norse mythology who is the queen of the underworld and the daughter of Loki? A: Hel
Q: Who was the AC Milan coach when they lost the 2005 Champions League final to Liverpool? A: Carlo Ancelotti
Q: France, Holland and which other country fought on the American side in the US War of Independence? A: Spain
Q: In French what is a bergere, as in Les Folies Bergere? A: Shepherd(ess)
Q: Which Archbishop of Canterbury conducted the queen's coronation ceremony in 1953? A: Geoffrey Fisher
Q: Atrophic striae is a medical term for what condition that primarily affects women? A: Stretch marks
Q: Which European female singer's albums have included 'Debut', 'Post', 'Homogenic' and 'Saved By Magic'? A: Bjork
Q: Which former children's laureate was Kirsty Young's first castaway on 'Desert Island Discs'? A: Quentin Blake
Q: In Egyptian mythology, the brother of Horus and Isis, who was the god of storms, and often represented as a hippopotamus? A: Set
Q: """No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs,"" is the autobiography of which punk rocker?" A: John Lydon
Q: The stage musicals 'Cabaret' and 'Chicago' were both written by the same songwriting team, name either of them. A: Kander & Ebb
Q: What is the last event of an Olympic decathlon? A: 1500 metres
Q: One of the most frequent symptoms presented to medics, what is cephalalgia? A: Headache
Q: What is the SI unit of frequency? A: Hertz
Q: Which US singer was born Alecia Moore in 1979, her hits include 'Get the Party Started', 'Family Portrait', 'Stupid Girls' and 'Who Knew'? A: Pink
Q: Which composer, whose most famous opera is 'Der Freischutz,' died of tuberculosis in London in 1826? A: Carl Maria von Weber
Q: At which battle of 1298 was William Wallace defeated by the English? A: Falkirk
Q: Who was the coach of Bayern Munich when they lost the 1999 Champions League final to Manchester United, before winning it in 2001? A: Ottmar Hitzfeld
Q: What is the popular name of the dance performed to the 'Galop Infernal' from 'Orpheus in the Underworld' by Offenbach? A: Can Can
Q: The writing form known as Linear B was a graphic representation of which specific ancient language? A: Mycenaean
Q: What treaty signed in March 1918 between Russia and Germany ended Russia's participation in World War 1 and the loss of its Baltic and Ottoman territories? A: Brest-Litovsk
Q: Sentenced to 8 years in 2006 for crimes committed over 25 yrs earlier, by what name was John Humble known to the police? A: Wearside Jack
Q: What spirit drink is the base of a screwdriver cocktail? A: Vodka
Q: In the TV sitcom 'Frasier' what is the forename of Frasier's producer played by Peri Gilpin? A: Roz
Q: Guinea-Bissau was until 1973 a colony of which country? A: Portugal
Q: Who was the first person to be paid $1 million for appearing in a single movie? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: What river rises in Russia and flows through Belarus before reaching the sea in the Ukraine? A: Dneiper
Q: In the 2006 Formula 1 season Jenson Button and which other driver won his first ever Grand Prix? A: Felipe Massa
Q: In French what is a moulin, as in Moulin Rouge? A: Windmill
Q: In the telecoms term 3G, for what does the letter G stand? A: (Third) Generation
Q: The national anthem of which European country has the same tune as 'God Saves The Queen'? A: Liechtenstein
Q: The eldest of her family, who was first seen in 1959, has a sister named Skipper, twin siblings, Stacie and Todd and in 1992 a baby sister Kelly? A: Barbie
Q: Which US vice president had a family dog named Checkers? A: Richard Nixon
Q: In the medical organization NICE, for what does the letter C stand? A: Clinical
Q: Under what name is bummalo fish served in a restaurant? A: Bombay duck
Q: In a Disney film, which character is befriended by Timothy Q. Mouse? A: Dumbo
Q: In which year did Louis Bleriot make the first powered flight across the English Channel? A: 1909
Q: What were introduced to the British calendar by Sir John Lubbock, Governor of the Bank of England? A: Bank Holidays
Q: Who was the first man to win tennis's Grand Slam, winning all four major championships in 1938? A: Donald Budge
Q: Which now defunct car company manufactured the models Hunter, Husky and Wizard? A: Hillman
Q: Malachite is a principal ore of which metal? A: Copper
Q: Who was the only President of the Confederate States of the USA? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: In which year did Chuck Yeager first break the sound barrier in a Bell X-1 rocket plane? A: 1947
Q: What was the name of John Mayall's band which included, at various times, Eric Clapton, John McVie, Peter Green and Mick Taylor? A: (John Mayall's) Bluesbreakers
Q: Which Grade 1 listed attraction in the north-west was opened in 1894, having been built by Heenan and Froude? A: Blackpool Tower
Q: Which public holiday is celebrated on the first Monday in September in the USA and Canada and in Australia on different days in different states? A: Labour Day
Q: Which major trunk road runs south from Wick to just north of Stirling where it then becomes a motorway? A: A9
Q: Which famous singer was a member of 'Bluesology' in the early 1960s, leaving in 1967 and changing his name to one that was a combination of the names of two members of the group? A: Elton John
Q: Which spirit is included in the cocktail 'Gibson'? A: Gin
Q: Which now defunct car company manufactured the models Horizon, Samba and Solara? A: Talbot
Q: Only one man since Donald Budge has won the tennis Grand Slam, achieving this feat twice, who is he? A: Rod Laver
Q: Where were the first shots fired at the start of the American Civil War? A: Fort Sumter
Q: Benidorm and Alicante are on which Spanish Costa? A: Blanca
Q: What name is given to the Sunday before Easter? A: Palm Sunday
Q: The adjective 'cervine' refers to which creatures? A: Deer
Q: Who was replaced by Jonathan Ross as presenter of BBC TV's 'Film Review'? A: Barry Norman
Q: In 1984 the Indian cricketer Ravi Shastri became the second and only other man to achieve which feat in first class cricket? A: Hit six sixes in an over
Q: In which African country is the province of Darfur? A: Sudan
Q: The Saffir-Simpson Scale estimates the damage done by what phenomenon? A: Hurricanes
Q: 'The World of Crinkley Bottom', a tourist attraction based on Noel Edmund's TV show opened and closed within 13 weeks in 1994, in which seaside resort? A: Morecambe
Q: Which TV police series is set in Denton? A: Frost
Q: The Al and A69 roads run through which major English city? A: Newcastle
Q: Who won the Booker Prize twice for his novels 'The Life and Times of Michael K' and 'Disgrace'? A: J.M. Coetzee
Q: Oxford and Cambridge were England's first two universities, which was the third founded in 1832? A: Durham
Q: The Costa Smerelda is on which Mediterranean island? A: Sardinia
Q: In a famous book who lived in Victory Mansions? A: Winston Smith
Q: The maple belongs to which genus of tree? A: Acer
Q: In which Verdi opera is 'Gilda' the jester's daughter? A: Rigoletto
Q: At whose feast did the 'writing on the wall' appear? A: Belshazzar
Q: Who wrote the oratorio featuring the writing on the wall? A: William Walton
Q: What was the name of the Norse God of or spirit of Mischief? A: Loki
Q: Sir Mark Thatcher was arrested and prosecuted for assisting a coup in which African country? A: Equatorial Guinea
Q: Which TV police series was set in Hartley? A: Juliet Bravo
Q: Which mountain pass, from Innsbruck to Bolzano, is the lowest Alpine pass and is usually open all year? A: Brenner Pass
Q: What is the family name of Lord Northcliffe? A: Harmsworth
Q: What substance is produced by white blood cells in response to the action of a foreign body? A: Antibody
Q: "The Scoville Scale measures the ""hotness"" of what?" A: Chilli peppers
Q: Which was Scotland's first university, founded in 1411? A: St Andrews
Q: Which mountain pass connects Pakistan and Afghanistan? A: Khyber Pass
Q: The adjective 'ophidian' refers to which creatures? A: Snakes
Q: The yew belongs to which genus of tree? A: Taxus
Q: Who won the Booker Prize twice for his novels 'Oscar and Lucinda' and 'True History of the Kelly Gang'? A: Peter Carey
Q: Which is the chief male sex hormone? A: Testosterone
Q: How many letters are there in the Greek alphabet? A: 24
Q: In which sport would you find a rover, a peg and a baulk line? A: CROQUET
Q: Which sea, an arm of the Indian Ocean, lies to the North and West of Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territories? A: THE TIMOR SEA
Q: Which English King was married to Edith Swan-Neck, also known as Edith the Fair? A: HAROLD II
Q: "Which TV screenwriter created the science fiction shows, ""Survivors"" and ""Blake's Seven""?" A: TERRY NATION
Q: Which comedian sang about the difficulties of being a cowboy in Rochdale Cowboy? A: MIKE HARDING
Q: Which canal was constructed to link the Great Lakes Erie and Ontario, thus bypassing the Niagara Falls? A: THE WELLAND CANAL
Q: In which 1997 Ridley Scott film was Demi Moore forced to shave her head? A: GI JANE
Q: Castlebay is the main town on which Scottish island? A: BARRA
Q: Brodick is the main town on which Scottish island? A: ISLE OF ARRAN
Q: Which ship ran aground in 1846, on its maiden voyage, in Dundrum Bay, Co. Down? A: SS GREAT BRITAIN
Q: In which 1993 film did Robin Williams pretend to be a female housekeeper for his ex wife, in order to spend time with his children? A: MRS DOUBTFIRE
Q: In Indian cuisine, what is the main vegetable ingredient in a saag dish? A: SPINACH
Q: In which Canadian City would one cross the Jacques Cartier Bridge? A: MONTREAL
Q: "Which singer/songwriter wrote about the hardships of living on, ""The Streets of London""?" A: RALPH McTELL
Q: "Which American TV producer created the series. ""The Invaders"" and ""Cannon""?" A: QUINN MARTIN
Q: "Which popular comedian once joked, ""When I said I wanted to be a comedian, they all laughed. Well, they are not laughing now""?" A: BOB MONKHOUSE
Q: """Sedgemoor"" and ""Frankley"" service areas can be found on which of Britain's motorways?" A: M5
Q: What was the name of William the Conqueror's eldest son, who, on his father's death, became Duke of Normandy? A: ROBERT
Q: The Vedas are the ancient, most sacred writings of which religion? A: HINDUISM
Q: "Who, in 1872, composed the opera, ""Boris Godunov"", based on the drama by Aleksandr Pushkin?" A: MODESTE MUSSORGSKI
Q: Which sea, separated from the Black Sea by the Strait of Kerch, suffered an ecological disaster in November 2007, when a fierce storm wrecked numerous oil tankers? A: SEA OF AZOV
Q: "In the 1996 film, ""Mars Attacks"", which actor played the part of the US President?" A: JACK NICHOLSON
Q: """The Buck Stops Here"" was the maxim of which US President?" A: HARRY S TRUMAN
Q: The fleet of which nation sailed up the Thames, and then the Medway in 1667, successfully attacking and burning English ships, laid up in Chatham naval base? A: HOLLAND
Q: What name is given to the character, not unlike a comma, which is placed underneath the letter C in French to denote its pronunciation as an S and not a K? A: A CEDILLA
Q: Which breed of heavy carthorse originated in Scotland? A: THE CLYDESDALE
Q: "In the song ""The Deadwood Stage"" sung by Doris day in the film, ""Calamity Jane"", how many miles had the stage travelled that day?" A: TWENTY-THREE.
Q: Who scored a spectacular goal in extra time in the 1971 F.A. Cup Final to win the trophy for Arsenal? A: CHARLIE GEORGE
Q: The two major ingredients of Daiquiri cocktails are rum and the juice of which fruit? A: LIME
Q: Which nineteenth century artist had the Christian names James Abbot McNeil? A: WHISTLER
Q: Which ancient civilisation had its capital at Knossos on the island of Crete? A: MINOAN
Q: Who was the husband of Mary I of England, also known as Mary Tudor? A: PHILIP II OF SPAIN
Q: Who was the third husband of Mary, Queen of Scots, commonly believed to have murdered her second husband, Lord Darnley? A: EARL OF BOTHWELL
Q: "Which island is the setting for Bizet's opera, ""The Pearl Fishers""?" A: CEYLON now SRI LANKA
Q: The dessert zabaglione is traditionally prepared by whipping together a mixture of sugar, egg yolks and which alcoholic drink? A: MARSALA
Q: Who scored an equalising goal for Coventry City against Spurs in the 1987 F.A. Cup Final, with a spectacular diving header, which enabled his side to go on and win the trophy in extra time? A: KEITH HOUCHEN
Q: "In the film ""Calamity Jane"" staffing Doris Day, who was the owner of the Golden Garter saloon, mentioned in the song, ""The Deadwood Stage""?" A: HENRY MILLER
Q: The ore, cassiterite, is the chief source of which metal? A: TIN
Q: The percheron, a breed of heavy carthorse, originated in which country? A: FRANCE
Q: What is the name of the character, consisting of two dots, placed over a vowel, especially in German, which changes the sound of that vowel in pronunciation? A: UMLAUT
Q: On November 1st 1914, which naval battle took place in the South Atlantic, in which a squadron of British ships were routed by the Germans, under Maximilian von Spee? A: CORONEL
Q: In which classic novel, published in 1848, does the character Mr Rawden Crawley appear? A: VANITY FAIR
Q: Which of the four U.S. Presidents carved into Mt. Rushmore is wearing spectacles? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: "The third movement of Debussy's ""Suite Bergamasque"" is better known by which name?" A: CLAIR DE LUNE
Q: "In the 1997 film, ""Independence Day"", which actor played the part of the US President?" A: BILL PULLMAN
Q: "Which group had a UK No I hit in 1967 with their song, ""Massachusetts""?" A: THE BEE GEES
Q: What is the traditional source of the dark brown pigment, sepia? A: CUTTLEFISH INK
Q: The Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland is made up from which type of rock? A: BASALT
Q: Which country lies between Zaire to the north and Namibia to the South? A: ANGOLA
Q: By what name was the pop star Mark Feld better known? A: MARC BOLAN
Q: What was destroyed at Bamiyan on the orders of the Taliban in 2001? A: STATUES OF BUDDHA
Q: .North Yorkshire in terms of area is England's largest county. Which is the second largest? A: CUMBRIA
Q: Who wrote Sergeant Musgrave's Dance? A: JOHN ARDEN
Q: Which one of Harold Wilson's peers went to jail for fraud? A: LORD KAGAN
Q: On which River does Pittsburgh stand? A: OHIO
Q: In which year did Fidel Castro come to power in Cuba? A: 1959
Q: Fritz Kreisler who died in 1962, was a virtuoso on which musical instrument? A: THE VIOLIN
Q: Which TV serial of 1984 was based on the Raj Quartet novels by Paul Scott? A: THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN
Q: What is the full name of the Super 12 Rugby Union side, from Canterbury, New Zealand? A: CRUSADERS
Q: "In which 1950 film, did Howard Keel and Betty Hutton sing the duet, ""Anything you can do""?" A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: Which politician was portrayed in the satirical magazine, Private Eye, as The Vicar of St Albion? A: TONY BLAIR
Q: Which foodstuff is made by coagulating soy milk, and pressing the resultant curd into blocks? A: TOFU
Q: Tannenberg and The Masurian Lakes, were early battles in which war? A: WORLD WAR I
Q: Which country in S. E. Asia consists of 17,508 islands, one of the larger ones being Sulawesi? A: INDONESIA
Q: What type of medical instrument is a plexor? A: A RUBBER HEADED HAMMER
Q: "Who composed the music for the ballet, ""Petrushka""?" A: IGOR STRAVINSKY
Q: A portrait of the Duke of Wellington, by which artist, was stolen from the National Gallery in London in 1961, and recovered four years later? A: FRANCISCO GOYA
Q: The premiere of which ballet by Stravinsky, in Paris in 1913, provoked a riot among the audience? A: THE RITE OF SPRING
Q: In which American, science fiction TV series of the 1990's, did Jennifer Lien play the part of Kes? A: STARTREK, VOYAGER
Q: Of which common item was a Daguerreotype an early example? A: A PHOTOGRAPH
Q: "Jean Alexander played which part in the TV series, ""Last of the Summer Wine""?" A: AUNTIE WAINWRIGHT
Q: Antietam and Fredericksburg were high casualty battles in which war? A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: For whose murder was James Hanratty hanged in 1962, a case which became known as the A6 murder? A: MICHAEL GREGSTEN
Q: What name is given to the cooked and clarified butter, much used in Indian cuisine? A: GHEE
Q: "In the song ""Anything you can do"", despite the many claims of their achievements, which task did both hero and heroine confess to be unable to do?" A: BAKE A PIE
Q: What is the full name of the Australian National Rugby League team from Melbourne? A: (MELBOURNE) STORM
Q: "Which knighted British composer wrote the musical score for the 1957 film, ""Bridge on the River Kwai""?" A: MALCOLM ARNOLD
Q: Horntail, Common Green Swedish Short Snout and Chinese Fireball are all types of which fictional creature? A: DRAGONS
Q: Measuring over 26,000 square miles in area, which is Africa's largest lake? A: LAKE VICTORIA
Q: Maureen Cox was the first wife of which famous musical personality? A: RINGO STARR
Q: In Egyptian mythology, who was the God of the Sky, depicted as a man with the head of a falcon? A: HORUS
Q: The three Chappell brothers, who played test cricket for Australia, were the grandsons of which Australian test cricketer, who captained his country in the 1930's? A: VIC RICHARDSON
Q: "Stephen Dedalus, is the main character and fictional alter ego of which author, in the 1916 book, ""Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man""?" A: JAMES JOYCE
Q: "Which American folk singer / songwriter, wrote the classic songs, ""Where have all the flowers gone"", and ""Turn, Turn, Turn""?" A: PETE SEEGER
Q: General Manuel Noriega, was overthrown in 1989, as leader of which Central American country? A: PANAMA
Q: To which family of birds does the brambling belong? A: FINCHES
Q: "Which woman, who died tragically in 1999 aged 43, was the first female to present the BBC sports programme, ""Grandstand""?" A: HELEN ROLLASON
Q: Which music hall actor invented the character of Old Mother Riley, a part he was to play in 16 films? A: ARTHUR LUCAN
Q: What word is used to describe a small, square tile of stone or glass, used in mosaics? A: TESSERA
Q: What word is used to describe a text, written for and set to music, in an opera? A: LIBRETTO
Q: "Part of the plot of the novel, ""Lorna Doone"", revolves around which famous English battle?" A: BATTLE OF SEDGEMOOR
Q: In flowering plants, what name is given to the terminal part of a stamen, where pollen is produced? A: THE ANTHER
Q: Peggy Seeger, half sister to the American folk singer Pete Seeger, was the third wife of which British poet, playwright and folk singer? A: EWAN MacCOLL
Q: "Although Stephen Dedalus is an important character in James Joyce's novel, ""Ulysses"", who is, in fact, the main character in the story?" A: LEOPOLD BLOOM
Q: When he won the US Open in 2005, which man became only the second New Zealander, after Bob Charles, to win one of golf's major championships? A: MICHAEL CAMPBELL
Q: Which is the most popular deity in Indian culture? Known as the Lord of Obstacles, this god is depicted as having the head of an elephant? A: GANESH
Q: Lake Edward in Africa, was renamed after which tyrannical African leader in the 1970's, the lake reverting to its original name, after he was overthrown? A: IDI AMIN
Q: "In which U.S. city is the TV comedy series, ""Frazier"" set?" A: SEATTLE
Q: Who is the very famous, yet estranged, actress daughter of actor, Jon Voight? A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: "What number links the characters played by Patrick McGoohan in ""The Prisoner"" and Tricia Helfer in ""Battlestar Galactica""?" A: Six
Q: "Which London-born novelist/journalist, of German parentage, wrote ""Everything You Know"" and ""Notes on a Scandal""?" A: Zoe Heller
Q: Which non-SI unit of length is 1 x 10-10? A: Angstrom
Q: Mark Anthony and Cleopatra VII, were defeated at which 31 BC battle? A: Actium
Q: Which Football League Two team play home games at Adams Park? A: Wycombe Wanderers
Q: Who was the UN General Secretary from 1961-1971? A: U Thant
Q: "Ryan Thomas plays which ""Coronation Street"" character?" A: Jason Grimshaw
Q: Which African city has the largest population (its inhabitants are called Masrawi)? A: Cairo
Q: "Which US singer/songwriter recorded the albums ""The Heart of Saturday Night"", ""Heartattack and Vine"", ""Swordfishtrombones"", etc?" A: Tom Waits
Q: Which Midlands town links Rupert Brooke and William Webb Ellis A: Rugby
Q: Galileo discovered the four largest moons of which planet in 1610? A: Jupiter
Q: Who is the oldest actress ever to win a film Oscar? A: Jessica Tandy
Q: "Who wrote the symphonic poem ""Finlandia""?" A: Jean Sibelius
Q: Jonathan lve is noted as the principal designer of which portable media player? A: The iPod
Q: Which former Education (and Transport) Secretary is MP for Bolton West? A: Ruth Kelly
Q: In Greek myth, who divested himself of his 'curse' in the River Pactolus? A: King Midas
Q: Larry Page and Sergey Brin were co-founders of which Internet tool? A: Google
Q: The Ford Cortina and Ford Taunus were predecessors of which model? A: Ford Sierra
Q: What alcoholic spirit is made from at least 90% of the Ugni Blanc grape? A: Cognac
Q: Vermiculture is the farming of what? A: Worms
Q: "Which comic duo first appeared together in TV's ""The Frost Report""?" A: The Two Ronnies
Q: The University of Paris (La Sorbonne) was founded in which century? A: Thirteenth
Q: "Which British writer, of Bangladeshi origin, wrote ""Brick Lane"", and ""Alentejo Blue""?" A: Monica Ali
Q: How is the unit of length 1 x 10-9 expressed? A: Nanometre
Q: Who was the Emperor of Rome at the time of the Great Fire in AD 64? A: Nero
Q: Which Football League One team play home games at Huish Park? A: Yeovil Town
Q: Who, in 1982, succeeded Kurt Waldheim as UN General Secretary? A: Javier Perez de Cuellar
Q: "Who portrays Kara Tointon in TV's ""Eastenders""?" A: Dawn Swann
Q: Which is the largest city in Europe; also the world's billionaire capital? A: Moscow
Q: "Which Irish-born singer/songwriter released the albums ""Astral Weeks"", ""What's Wrong With This Picture"", ""Magic Time"", etc?" A: Van Morrison
Q: Which English city links Cary Grant and W. G. Grace? A: Bristol
Q: Who is the youngest actress to win a film Oscar? A: Tatum O'Neal
Q: "Who wrote the national march of the USA, ""The Stars and Stripes Forever""?" A: John Philip Sousa
Q: Which company produces The Walkman and AIBO electronic dog? A: Sony
Q: Which former Home Secretary is MP for Norwich South? A: Charles Clarke
Q: Give a year in the life of Dutch painter Piet Mondrian. A: 1872-1944
Q: Drinking from the River Lethe causes what? A: Forgetfulness
Q: Jeff Bezos launched which online shop in 1995? A: Amazon
Q: Who, from 1951-1969, was the only King of Libya? A: Idris
Q: First produced in 2003, what is the current Rolls-Royce model available? A: (Rolls-Royce) Phantom
Q: "In which year did The Beatles release the film ""Yellow Submarine""; Alec Rose arrives back in Portsmouth; the last steam passenger train service runs in Britain ." A: 1968
Q: Who was the first English goalkeeper transferred for £1 million (1989)? A: Nigel Martyn
Q: Spanish law states which fortified wine must come from the Jerez province? A: Sherry
Q: The adjective oviform relates to which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Colne Valley Railway and Waltham Abbey are in which English county? A: Essex
Q: "Which comic trio first appeared in radio's ""I'm Sorry, I'll Read That Again""?" A: The Goodies
Q: Which Italian university was founded circa 1088? A: Bologna
Q: Which gem variety is an aluminium oxide with the formula Al203? A: Sapphire
Q: The Prime Minister's Question Time is held on which weekday? A: Wednesday
Q: From which country does LEGO originate? A: DENMARK
Q: In the Beverly Hillbillies what is the name of Milburn Drysdale's Secretary? A: JANE HATHAWAY
Q: Who is the only player to have appeared in 5 Rugby World Cups? A: BRIAN LIMA
Q: In the 1991 film, if Geena Davis played Thelma, who played the part of Louise? A: SUSAN SARANDON
Q: Paul McCartney and Wings provided the title song for which 1973 James Bond film? A: LIVE AND LET DIE
Q: How many years must a couple be married to celebrate their crystal wedding anniversary? A: FIFTEEN
Q: Although the island of Corfu is part of Greece, its north eastern tip lies just off the coast of which other country? A: ALBANIA
Q: "In the 1980's, on which TV game show did Leslie Crowther proclaim, ""Come on Down""?" A: THE PRICE IS RIGHT
Q: "Who has written a series of novels, entitled ""The Dark Tower"", of which the first, in 1982, was entitled, ""The Gunslinger""?" A: STEPHEN KING
Q: The metallic element, Lutetium, is named after the Latin name of which European capital city? A: PARIS
Q: Bandleaders Benny Goodman and Woody Herman both normally played which instrument? A: THE CLARINET
Q: "Which English racecourse, dubbed ""The Home of National Hunt Racing"", is situated in Prestbury Park?" A: CHELTENHAM
Q: Name the 1956 film, in which Kirk Douglas portrayed the artist Vincent Van Gogh. A: LUST FOR LIFE
Q: The majority of Epping Forest stands in which English county? A: ESSEX
Q: Which actor, born in Prescot in 1757, was the brother of famous actress Sarah Siddons? A: JOHN PHILIP KEMBLE
Q: "Which artist did Charlton Heston portray in the 1965 film, ""The Agony and the Ecstasy""?" A: MICHELANGELO
Q: The cluster of stars, known as The Pleiades, lies in which constellation? A: TAURUS
Q: "In 1926, which American bandleader, the self-dubbed, ""King of Jazz"", hired, and thus helped launch the career of singer Bing Crosby?" A: PAUL WHITEMAN
Q: Although the Dodecanese Islands are part of Greece, they lie just a few miles off the coast of which other country? A: TURKEY
Q: If a couple have been married for thirty years, which wedding anniversary will they celebrate? A: PEARL
Q: "What was the name of the song, sung by Carly Simon, which was used as the theme song for the 1977 James Bond film, ""The Spy Who Loved Me""?" A: NOBODY DOES IT BETTER
Q: "Which action in World War H, had the code name, ""Operation Dynamo""?" A: EVACUATION FROM DUNKIRK
Q: Who is the only West Indian bowler to take over 500 wickets in Test cricket? A: COURTNEY WALSH
Q: What name is given to the particle in an atom which carries a negative charge? A: AN ELECTRON
Q: In Greek mythology, who nightly swam the Hellespont to meet his lover? A: LEANDER
Q: There are two cathedrals in Dublin, Christ Church and St Patrick's, neither belonging to the Roman Catholic faith. To which minority faith do they belong? A: THE CHURCH OF IRELAND
Q: The only authenticated portrait of which English novelist, is by her sister Cassandra, and hangs in the National Portrait Gallery? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: "The opera, ""Boris Godunov"" by Mussorgsky was based on a play by which Russian author?" A: ALEXANDER PUSHKIN
Q: Which 1970's American TV detective series, was created by film writer Abby Mann? A: KOJAK
Q: Which current cabinet minister is the Labour M.P. for Redditch? A: JACQUI SMITH
Q: Which wine was traditionally transported downriver in Rabelo boats? A: PORT
Q: On winning the US Masters in 2003, which man became the only Canadian to win one of golf's major titles? A: MIKE WEIR
Q: What name is given to the series of narrative poems by Lord Tennyson, which retells the legend of Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table? A: IDYLLS OF THE KING
Q: "Which 15th century English writer compiled some French and English Arthurian legends, and added work of his own, under the title of ""Le Morte d'Arthur""?" A: SIR THOMAS MALORY
Q: Prior to Padraig Harrington in 2008, who was the last European golfer to win two of golf's major titles in the same season? A: NICK FALDO
Q: Ruth Kelly, who announced in September 2008, that she is stepping down from the cabinet to spend more time with her family, has been an MP in which northern town since 1997? A: BOLTON
Q: "Which American TV legend produced the detective series, ""FBI"", ""Cannon"" and ""Barnaby Jones""?" A: QUINN MARTIN
Q: "Which common pastoral plant, has the botanical name ""trifolium repens""?" A: (WHITE) CLOVER
Q: "Which composer, born in Pesaro in Italy in 1792, based his opera, ""The Barber of Seville"" on the trilogy by French playwright, Pierre de Beaumarchais?" A: ROSSINI
Q: The Musee d'Orsay, in Paris, which houses many great impressionist paintings, was originally designed as what sort of building? A: A RAILWAY STATION
Q: "The adjective ""cervine"", is used when pertaining to which animal?" A: THE DEER
Q: According to tradition, the Greek mythological monsters, Scylla and Charybdis, menaced seafarers in which stretch of water? A: STRAITS OF MESSINA
Q: The atomic number of a chemical element, is determined by the numbers of which particle, in its nucleus? A: THE PROTON
Q: Courtney Walsh first played cricket for which county side in England in 1984, remaining with them until 1998? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: Which film star did Elvis Presley's daughter, Lisa Marie, marry in August 2002? He filed for divorce just 108 days later. A: NICHOLAS CAGE
Q: Who is currently the Secretary General of the United Nations? A: BAN KI-MOON
Q: In heraldry, which word describes the right hand side of the shield? A: Dexter
Q: What was the nationality of aircraft designer Anthony Fokker? A: Dutch
Q: Who became heir to the throne of France as a result of the Treaty of Troyes in 1420? A: Henry V of England
Q: Which actress failed to win an Academy Award despite having been nominated 6 times? A: Deborah Kerr
Q: Which Daily Mirror journalist wrote for many years under the pen name of Cassandra? A: William Connor
Q: Which year saw the very first Edinburgh Festival? A: 1947
Q: Which biblical city was the capital of Assyria and was sacked by the Babylonians and the Medes in 612BC? A: Nineveh
Q: A Sugar anniversary celebrates how many years of marriage? A: 6
Q: Bungay Castle is in which English county? A: Suffolk
Q: "Who was the male star of the film ""Man Of La Mancha""?" A: Peter O'Toole
Q: Which long running television detective series is based upon the novels of Caroline Graham? A: Midsomer Murders
Q: Besides China and Cambodia, which other country has a border with Vietnam? A: Laos
Q: In Italian, the word Duomo means which building? A: Cathedral
Q: Who is the Roman equivalent of the Greek god Poseidon? A: Neptune
Q: Who most famously had a horse name Bucephalus? A: Alexander the Great
Q: What is the name of the currency used in Sudan? A: Pound
Q: Who wrote the novel Cannery Row? A: John Steinbeck
Q: Which adjective means eagle like? A: Aquiline
Q: If you have committed regicide who would you have killed? A: A King
Q: In heraldry which word describes an animal with its body resting on its leg and with its head raised? A: Couchant
Q: What was the forename of writer Proust (1871-1922)? A: Marcel
Q: In which modern day country is the birthplace of the geneticist Gregor Mendel? A: Czech Republic
Q: What are Fly in Nevada, USA, El Tatio in Chile and Strokker in Iceland? A: Geysers
Q: Give a year in the life of the writer Franz Kafka. A: 1883 - 1924
Q: In 1994, which successful sportswoman wrote the novel Total Zone? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: Who composed the orchestral pieces the Lark Ascending and The Pilgrim's Progress? A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: Around 1503, who painted the Coronation of the Virgin, now to be found in the Vatican museum? A: Raphael
Q: In which decade did the Gordon Riots take place? A: 1780s
Q: In the bible the book of Lamentations is ascribed to which of the prophets? A: Jeremiah
Q: Who directed the film version of the musical Hair? A: Milos Forman
Q: Which Prime Minister twice succeeded J Ramsay Macdonald? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: Which fictional Police Officer was created by M C Beaton? A: Hamish Macbeth
Q: Which notable Englishman was murdered on 29th December 1170? A: Thomas Becket
Q: Who was the last king of ancient Rome? A: Tarquin the Proud
Q: Who most famously had a horse named Copenhagen? A: Duke of Wellington
Q: What is the name of the currency used in Malaysia? A: Ringgit
Q: In Geography, one time zone usually represents how many degrees of longitude? A: 15
Q: Who wrote the novel Vile Bodies? A: Evelyn Waugh
Q: "What was being advertised by Lorraine Chase when she used the words ""Nah, Luton Airport""" A: Campari
Q: What was the code name for the bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945? A: Little Boy
Q: Who won the FA Cup in 1923, the year it was first played at Wembley? A: Bolton Wanderers
Q: What type of fruit is a 'James Grieve'? A: Apple
Q: Will's Neck is the highest point in which range of hills? A: Quantocks
Q: Which TV comic character worked for Radio Norwich? A: Alan Partridge
Q: The SWALEC Stadium will become a Test cricket ground in 2009, in which town or city is it? A: Cardiff
Q: Which language is common to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism? A: Sanskrit
Q: How many seats are there in the US Senate? A: 100
Q: Which video game involves the main character in a search for 3 'Scions' with the final action taking place in the great pyramid of Atlantis? A: Tomb Raider
Q: Many betting odds have nicknames e.g. 5/1 is a 'handful', what odds are known as 'cockle'? A: 10/1
Q: What did Hubert Cecil Booth first patent in 1902? A: Vacuum Cleaner
Q: In which part of the British Isles is Carisbrooke Castle? A: Isle of Wight
Q: What type of fruit is a 'Merton Pride'? A: Pear
Q: Which actor was a Dad's Army regular and also appeared in the film 'Ben Hur'? A: John le Mesurier
Q: Who wrote the sonnet 'How do I love thee'? A: Elizabeth Barrett-Browning
Q: The LHC has been built to research nuclear physics, for what does the H stand? A: Hadron
Q: Who said 'I am not afraid to die, I just don't want to be there when it happens'? A: Woody Allen
Q: Bourbon whisky is named after a county in which US state? A: Kentucky
Q: Who had a UK number 1 hit in 1955 with the song 'Stranger in Paradise'? A: Tony Bennett
Q: Which video game is set in Liberty City? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: Dolomite is an ore of which metal? A: Magnesium
Q: Who is MP for Hampstead and Highgate? A: Glenda Jackson
Q: In which English county is Framlingham Castle? A: Suffolk
Q: Celtic Crusaders join the Rugby League Superleague in 2009, in which town or city is the club based? A: Bridgend
Q: To within 10 either way, how many seats are there in the US House of Representatives? A: 435
Q: Who was the British General who died at the Battle of Coruña in 1809? A: Sir John Moore
Q: Who wrote the poem 'Not waving but drowning'? A: Stevie Smith
Q: What is the common name of the fruit Prunus Armeniaca? A: Apricot
Q: What was the official residence of the monarch between 1698 and 1837? A: St James Palace
Q: Rosario is a principal town or city in which country? A: Argentina
Q: According to mythology, who was the swift-footed huntress who lost a race when she stopped to pick up a golden apple? A: Atalanta
Q: The site of the Battle of Flodden Field is in which county? A: Northumberland
Q: Published in 1826 whose song, a rendition of 'Ave Maria', is classified as Opus 52 no 6? A: Schubert
Q: Which 1966 western featured the characters Tuco, Blondie and Angel Eyes? A: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly
Q: Which rock 'n roll icon had a US and UK hit in 1956 with 'Long Tall Sally'? A: Little Richard
Q: According to mythology, who was rescued by Perseus after being chained to a rock as a sacrifice? A: Andromeda
Q: The Bryce Canyon and Zion National Parks are in which US state? A: Utah
Q: What is the fruit of the shrub/plant Rubus Idaeus? A: Raspberry
Q: Who directed the film 'Good Morning Vietnam'? A: Barry Levinson
Q: Robert the Bruce is buried in which town? A: Dunfermline
Q: Which of the former eastern bloc countries, now a member of the EU is the only one to have adopted the euro as its currency? A: Slovenia
Q: Sir Thomas Bertram owns which estate in an 1814 novel? A: Mansfield Park
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Custard appear? A: Love's Labours Lost
Q: The site of the Battle of Naseby is in which county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: The LHC is operated by the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, by what initials is this organisation known? A: CERN
Q: Whose Law states that equal volumes of gases at the same temperature and pressure contain equal numbers of molecules? A: Avogadro
Q: A biography of which pop group was subtitled 'The World's First Supergroup'? A: Cream
Q: On which island did St John write Revelations? A: Patmos
Q: "What type of precious stone is the ""Star of India""?" A: A SAPPHIRE
Q: How should one address an ambassador? A: YOUR EXCELLENCY
Q: Which Mediterranean island is associated with the Greek goddess of love, Aphrodite? A: CYPRUS
Q: Which chocolate bar, has had its name changed to 'Snickers'? A: MARATHON
Q: Which fictional human character was known as the 'Napoleon of Crime'? A: MORIARTY
Q: 'Glass's Guide' is a publication to interest a buyer of what? A: A CAR
Q: What is the American equivalent of the 'Financial Times'? A: WALL STREET JOURNAL
Q: Which radio comedian's catch-phrase was 'right monkey'? A: AL READ
Q: In which country would you find the holy city of the Islamic religion, Mecca? A: SAUDI ARABIA
Q: "Who was the original owner of the beautiful yacht ""Nabila"" which was named after his daughter?" A: ADNAN KASHOGGI
Q: From which type of animal did the mythical Cornucopia, or Horn of Plenty come? A: A GOAT
Q: "In the story of ""Alice in Wonderland"", what kind of creature did Alice find on top of a toadstool, smoking a hookah?" A: A CATERPILLAR
Q: Which American rock 'n' roll star is nicknamed 'The Killer'? A: JERRY LEE LEWIS
Q: "On radio, whose voice was used for the character ""Hercules Grytpipe-Thynne""?" A: PETER SELLERS
Q: Jezebel, was the wife of which biblical King? A: AHAB
Q: What was the Christian name of the Spanish painter Goya? A: FRANCISCO
Q: Which model of Rolls-Royce motor car has the same name as a bomber aircraft? A: PHANTOM
Q: Which Belgian city hosted the 1920 summer Olympics? A: ANTWERP
Q: "What physical disability is highlighted in the film ""Children of a Lesser God""?" A: DEAFNESS
Q: "Which town is ""celebrated"" in the song ""Dirty Old Town""?" A: SALFORD
Q: "What was the forename of the French Painter ""Manet""?" A: EDOUARD
Q: "In ""Alice in Wonderland"" when the Cheshire Cat disappears what is left behind?" A: ITS GRIN
Q: Which Mayor of New York (1934/45) was honoured by having the local airport named after him? A: FIORELLO LA GUARDIA
Q: "How old was Lester Piggott when he rode his first winner - ""The Chase"" at Haydock Park in 1948?" A: TWELVE
Q: "Which comedian founded the satirical magazine ""Private Eye""?" A: PETER COOK
Q: "In Stevenson's classic book, ""Treasure Island"" who was the captain of the Hispaniola""?" A: CAPTAIN SMOLLETT
Q: Who founded an airline in the 1930s in the USA, which developed into the modern company TWA (Trans-World Airlines)? A: HOWARD HUGHES
Q: "What does ""Oscar"" (the academy award) hold in his hands?" A: A SWORD
Q: Which famous battle took place four hundred years before Waterloo in 1815? A: AGINCOURT
Q: The largest department store in the world is in New York City, what is its name? A: MACY'S
Q: "Who is, ""rather appropriately"", the patron saint of thieves?" A: ST NICHOLAS
Q: What word, other than blackmail, is used to describe the criminal offence of demanding money with menaces? A: EXTORTION
Q: Which sign of the zodiac is represented by a mythical centaur? A: SAGITTARIUS
Q: "In the film ""The Absent-Minded professor"" what substance was invented by Fred MacMurray?" A: FLUBBER
Q: "The ""Nimrod"" reconnaissance aircraft is based on which former passenger aircraft?" A: THE COMET
Q: Io is one of the moons of which planet? A: JUPITER
Q: Which Californian city takes its name from the patron saint of Spain? A: SAN DIEGO
Q: "Which actor founded London's ""Mermaid"" Theatre?" A: BERNARD MILES
Q: "Who, in the Old Testament, said ""Lord, let me die with mine enemies""?" A: SAMSON
Q: Who is the only British monarch to have had an Epsom Derbywinner during his/her reign? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Which lake was created by the building of the Aswan High Dam on the Nile in the 1960s? A: LAKE NASSER
Q: "Which local golf course is properly called ""Royal Liverpool""?" A: HOYLAKE
Q: Which creature has a chemical in its saliva which prevents blood from clotting? A: VAMPIRE BAT
Q: "In the Aintree Grand National, how many fences are jumped before one reached ""Beecher's Brook"" for the first time?" A: FIVE
Q: Which film brought John Mills his only Oscar? A: RYAN'S DAUGHTER
Q: Which county cricket team won the championship six times in the 20th century, although their last outright success was in 1934? A: Lancashire
Q: "Name the piece of classical music associated with the advertising slogan ""Happiness is a cigar called Hamlet""?" A: Air on a G String
Q: Which lake was formed by the damming of the Zambezi River? A: Kariba
Q: The Babington Plot was intended to dethrone which English monarch? A: Elizabeth I
Q: John Torode and Gregg Wallace are the judges on which TV programme? A: Masterchef
Q: In which Mississippi town was Elvis Presley born? A: Tupelo
Q: Lawrence Fox plays the sidekick of which TV detective? A: Lewis
Q: Lawrence Fox married which actress in January 2008? A: Billie Piper,
Q: Which lake was formed by the building of the Hoover Dam? A: Mead
Q: Which South American country's flag has three horizontal bands of blue, white and blue with a gold sun on the white band? A: Argentina
Q: Which English knight helped put Henry 4th on the throne but later rebelled and was killed at the Battle of Shrewsbury in 1403? A: Sir Henry Percy
Q: Name the composer born in Germany in 1685, he settled in England in 1712, was naturalised English in 1727 and died in London in 1759? A: Handel
Q: Which four letters are added to the end of another word to mean inflammation? A: -itis
Q: Which is the largest member of the crow family? A: Raven
Q: What is the name of Shakespeare's 'Merchant of Venice'? A: Antonio
Q: Which team beat Glasgow Rangers in the 2008 UEFA Cup Final played at the City of Manchester Stadium? A: Zenit St Petersburg
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain for just seven months from October 1922 to May 1923? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: 2007 was the 75th anniversary of the mass trespass on which Peak District hill, an action that led to the formation of the Rambler's Association? A: Kinder Scout
Q: At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, who became the first British man to win three gold medals at one Games since 1908? A: Chris Hoy
Q: In mythology, which son of Zeus was immersed up to his neck in water which he could not drink and surrounded by fruits which were eternally out of reach? A: Tantalus
Q: "Of whom did Winston Churchill say ""In defeat unbeatable, in victory unbearable""?" A: Field Marshal Montgomery
Q: Which county cricket team waited until 1979 before their first county championship title but won it five more times by 1992? A: Essex
Q: Which 1969 film told the story of contestants in a 1920s dance marathon, the title is also that of a 1977 top 20 hit for Racing Cars? A: They Shoot Horses Don't They?
Q: Which male name comes from the Greek meaning farmer or agriculture? A: George
Q: What is the surname of retail guru Mary featured in the TV series 'Mary Queen of Shops'? A: Portas
Q: What is the American word for a cashier in a bank? A: Teller
Q: Name the W-shaped constellation prominent in the northern sky? A: Cassiopeia
Q: What are 'hairstreaks' and 'skippers'? A: Butterflies
Q: Which member of the crow family has a grey head? A: Jackdaw
Q: What is the name of the famous cartoon strip drawn by Jim Davis? A: Garfield
Q: Name the composer born in Russia in 1882, he became a French citizen in 1934, and an American citizen in 1945, he died in New York City in 1971? A: Stravinsky
Q: Sir Anthony Mamo, who died in May 2008, was the first President of which European country, from 1974 to 1976? A: Malta
Q: On which island in the Thames was Magna Carta signed in 1215? A: Runnymede
Q: What is the name of Shakespeare's shrew? A: Katharina
Q: What is the boiling point of water on the Fahrenheit scale? A: 212°
Q: In which Texas town was Buddy Holly born? A: Lubbock
Q: Which four letters are added to the end of another word to mean a diseased condition? A: -osis
Q: Joan of Arc was burnt at the stake in which French city? A: Rouen
Q: What is the boiling point of water on the Reamur scale? A: 80°
Q: Which male name means 'lover of horses'? A: Philip
Q: Which European country gave votes to woman for the first time as recently as 1976? A: Portugal
Q: In mythology, who was condemned to eternally roll a boulder up to the top of a hill only to see it roll down the other side? A: Sisyphus
Q: "Who was described by Winston Churchill as ""a sheep in sheep's clothing""?" A: Clement Attlee
Q: Which Scottish town or city is also known as 'The Fair City' or 'St John's Town'? A: Perth
Q: In the theatre which colour should male actors avoid wearing as it is considered unlucky? A: Yellow
Q: Sauce Bigarade is made with which fruit? A: Oranges
Q: What is the name of the famous cartoon strip drawn by Scott Adams? A: Dilbert
Q: Who presented the TV game show 'Wipeout'? A: Paul Daniels
Q: Which car company make a model called Fox? A: VW
Q: Which historical figure was executed by emasculation, evisceration and beheading at Smithfield in 1305? A: WILLIAM WALLACE
Q: Clun Forest lies in which English county? A: SHROPSHIRE
Q: In a Chinese restaurant, what does a diner get if he orders wonton? A: DUMPLINGS
Q: "In the TV series, ""To the Manor Born"", which character was played by actress, Angela Thorne?" A: MARJORY
Q: "Which car manufacturer produces a model called ""Legacy""?" A: SUBARU
Q: "The horse races, ""The Cambridgeshire"" and ""The Cesarewitch"" are grouped together under which title?" A: THE AUTUMN DOUBLE
Q: Who played the part of Norman Bates in the 1998 version of the film,'Psycho'? A: VINCE VAUGHAN
Q: What is the occupation of Silas Marner, in the book by George Eliot? A: A WEAVER
Q: What name is given to any of the six administrative districts of the Isle of Man? A: A SHEADING
Q: What anatomical name is given to the bones of human fingers and toes? A: PHALANGES
Q: Due to his flamboyant style, which nickname was attributed to the conductor, Sir Malcolm Sargent? A: FLASH HARRY
Q: Which part of the human body has the anatomical name axilla? A: THE ARMPIT
Q: Who is the only American born motor racing driver to win the Formula 1 World Championship? A: PHIL HILL
Q: Billy Bigelow and Julie Jordan are characters in which stage and screen musical? A: CAROUSEL
Q: What is the occupation of Adam Bede in the book by George Eliot? A: A CARPENTER
Q: "Which actor, who first played Geoffrey Shawcross in the TV series, ""Hetty Wainthropp Investigates"", played the part of Merry in the ""Lord of the Rings"" films?" A: DOMINIC MONAGHAN
Q: Genuine Moroccan leather is made from the hide of which animal? A: THE GOAT
Q: "The Grand National and which flat race together comprise ""The Spring Double""?" A: THE LINCOLN HANDICAP
Q: "Which car manufacturer produces the ""Grand Vitara"", 4 x 4 model?" A: SUZUKI
Q: "In the early episodes of the TV series, ""To the Manor Born"", what was the surname of the character, Audrey, played by Penelope Keith?" A: FFORBES-HAMILTON
Q: The cartoon character, Glenda Slagg, the First Lady of Fleet St., appeared in which satirical magazine? A: PRIVATE EYE
Q: Which vegetable, popular in Chinese dishes, is obtained from the stem of the Bulrush? A: WATER CHESTNUTS
Q: In which English county is Savernake Forest? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: To celebrate which event were Britain's first set of commemorative stamps issued? A: THE BRITISH EMPIRE EXHIBITION
Q: Which U.S. City is served by O'Hare International airport? A: CHICAGO
Q: "Which Australian bowler was named ""Player of the Tournament"", at the end of the 2007 Cricket World Cup?" A: GLEN McGRATH
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is the largest in our Solar System? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Calpurnia was the third and last wife of which famous historical character? A: JULIUS CAESAR
Q: Helen Clark is currently the Prime Minister of which Commonwealth country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: "The film musical, ""Cabaret"" was based on the short novel, ""Goodbye to Berlin"", written in the 1930's by which British author?" A: CHRISTOPHER ISHERWOOD
Q: Actress/singer, Millicent Martin was married to which pop singer from 1958-65? A: RONNIE CARROLL
Q: Which flower has varieties named, Dorothy Perkins, Grandpa Dickson and Iceberg? A: THE ROSE
Q: What is the name of the French style soup made with pureed leeks, onions and potatoes, chicken stock and cream and traditionally served cold? A: VICHYSSOISE
Q: What was the title of the TV series, which starred Jasper Carrott as Bob Louis and Robert Powell as Dave Briggs? A: THE DETECTIVES
Q: Victoria is the capital of which group of islands in the Indian Ocean? A: THE SEYCHELLES
Q: "Who described a second marriage as ""The triumph of hope over experience""?" A: SAMUEL JOHNSON
Q: "Who directed the films, ""Bugsy Malone"" (1976) and Midnight Express (1978)?" A: ALAN PARKER
Q: What is the name of the ground, in Belfast, on which the Ulster Rugby Union team play their home matches? A: RAVENHILL
Q: "Who directed the films, ""The Terminator"" (1984) and ""Titanic"" (1997)?" A: JAMES CAMERON
Q: "Which politician, in a famous speech, quoted Euripides, by saying, ""Whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first make mad""?" A: ENOCH POWELL
Q: What is the capital and largest city of the Fijian Islands? A: SUVA
Q: What was the title of the 1960's American TV series, which starred Richard Boone as a gentleman turned gunfighter named Paladin? A: HAVE GUN, WILL TRAVEL
Q: What is the flavour of the Spanish soups Gazpacho and Salmorejo, which are traditionally served chilled? A: TOMATO
Q: Which popular garden flower has classes which include regular and irregular incurves, reflex, decorative and pompon? A: CHRYSANTHEMUMS
Q: Wigan Rugby League player Chris Mather and management consultant, Patrick King, were both, at one time or another, married to which TV personality? A: CAROL VORDERMAN
Q: Who is currently the Prime Minister of Australia? A: KEVIN RUDD
Q: Valeria Messalina was the third wife of which Roman emperor? A: CLAUDIUS
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is the most volcanic body in our Solar System? A: IO
Q: Which city in the U.S.A. is served by McCarron International airport? A: LAS VEGAS
Q: Which Oswaldtwistle born weaver and carpenter invented the Spinning Jenny in the 18th century? A: JAMES HARGREAVES
Q: Which part of the human body is referred to by the adjective, renal? A: THE KIDNEYS
Q: In Greek mythology, who was, tragically, both the mother and wife of Oedipus? A: JOCASTA
Q: In which year did the demolition of the Berlin Wall begin? A: 1989
Q: What was the nickname of President Duvalier of Haiti who died in 1971? A: Papa Doc
Q: "Who wrote ""The Hunt for Red October""?" A: Tom Clancy
Q: "Which rock star is nicknamed ""Slowhand""?" A: Eric Clapton
Q: Which current Broadway musical has a Japanese therapist character called Christmas Eve? A: Avenue Q
Q: In which country was the dance the Polka invented? A: Poland
Q: It is illegal in England to eat what on Christmas Day? A: Mince pies
Q: Hollyoaks is set in a fictional suburb of which British city? A: Chester
Q: What military term is derived from the youths who worked as pages to mounted knights? A: Infantry
Q: Which word is used for the traditional Mafia code of silence in Sicily? A: Omertà
Q: Who founded the Salvation Army? A: William Booth
Q: Which Egyptian president ordered the seizure of the Suez Canal in 1956? A: Nasser
Q: "What was the name of the store in ""Are You Being Served?""?" A: Grace Brothers
Q: "Who was the ""Last King of Scotland"" in the film of that name?" A: Idi Amin
Q: Which church festival is celebrated on 2nd February? A: Candlemas
Q: What was the surname of Del Boy in Only Fools and Horses? A: Trotter
Q: What are candle wicks most commonly made from? A: Cotton
Q: In which island group is the oil terminal of Sullom Voe? A: Shetlands
Q: Photophobia is a fear of what? A: Light
Q: Who played the outlaw Josey Wales in the 1976 film? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Which UK football team plays home games at the Stadium of Light? A: Sunderland
Q: In 1979 which English art historian was exposed as a one-time Soviet spy? A: Anthony Blunt
Q: Which Irish boxer was nicknamed the Clones Cyclone? A: Barry McGuigan
Q: Who scored the most tries in the 2007 Rugby World Cup? A: Brian Habana
Q: Which Wild West legend was born Henry McCarty? A: Billy The Kid
Q: Social reformer Frank Pakenham was better known as whom? A: Lord Longford
Q: In which city did Richard Wagner die in 1883? A: Venice
Q: Who designed London's Regents Park in 1811? A: John Nash
Q: Which widely known song was composed by one-time docker Jim Connell in 1889 on a No 28 London bus? A: The Red Flag
Q: Who sang the theme song of the film High Noon? A: Tex Ritter
Q: In which country was Trivial Pursuit invented? A: Canada
Q: What gives Earl Grey tea its distinctive flavour? A: Oil of bergamot
Q: Which Wirral plant was the first in Europe to produce enriched uranium? A: Capenhurst
Q: In which country does football team Penarol play? A: Uruguay
Q: What was pasteurisation first used to process? A: Wine
Q: Who wrote the screenplay of Chariots of Fire? A: Colin Welland
Q: What is the nearest football league ground to the River Thames? A: Craven Cottage
Q: What was the occupation of The Admiral's Men? A: Actors
Q: Who were Babs, Joy and Teddie? A: The Beverley Sisters
Q: With Sellers, Seacombe and Milligan, who was generally thought of as 'the fourth Goon'? A: Michael Bentine
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Caliban appear? A: The Tempest
Q: Which was the most successful racehorse of the 18th century? A: Eclipse
Q: Who regularly delivered the monologue 'Albert and the Lion'? A: Stanley Holloway
Q: Tom Quad is part of which Oxford college? A: Christ Church
Q: Who played John Wilder in TV's The Plane Makers? A: Patrick Wymark
Q: How many gates are there on the Thames Barrier? A: Ten
Q: What was Alan Sugar's catchphrase during the TV series The Apprentice? A: YOU'RE FIRED
Q: Who has the nickname of the thinking man's crumpet? A: JOAN BAKEWELL
Q: What musical instrument does jazz musician Courtney Pine primarily play? A: SAXOPHONE
Q: In which country will the 2010 FIFA World Cup be held? A: South Africa
Q: Who, in Greek myth, was the daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, sacrificed at Aulis by her father to ensure a safe passage to Troy? A: Iphigenia
Q: Which luxury car manufacturer produces the Vantage? A: Aston Martin
Q: "Which chemical element (atomic number 15) derives its name from the Greek for ""light bearing""?" A: Phosphorus
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the line ""The course of true love never did run smooth"" come?" A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: Who presents 'Any Questions' on BBC Radio 4? A: Jonathan Dimbleby
Q: Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak in Africa, is in which country? A: Tanzania
Q: Which day of the week features in the title of a novel by G K Chesterton? A: Thursday
Q: For what does the W stand in the name of Rev W Awdry, creator of Thomas the Tank Engine? A: Wilbert
Q: In cookery, what is the main flavouring of aioli? A: Garlic
Q: In which country will the 2010 Winter Olympic Games be held? A: Canada
Q: Which luxury car marque produces the Veyron? A: Bugatti
Q: Of which Verdi opera is Violetta the heroine? A: La Traviata
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the, line ""I am a man more sinned against than sinning"" come?" A: King Lear
Q: Who created the Garfield cartoon strip? A: Jim Davis
Q: Which journalist presents This Week on BBC One? A: Andrew Neil
Q: Which comedian was born Chris Collins? A: Frank Skinner
Q: Which chemical element (atomic number 36)'derives its name from the Greek meaning hidden? A: Krypton
Q: Of which Puccini opera is Mimi the heroine? A: La Bohème
Q: "Which number 1 hit from 1995 begins ""I guess now it's time for me to give up, I feel it's time. Got a picture of you beside me, got your lipstick mark still on your coffee cup""" A: Back for Good
Q: In cookery, which herb is the traditional main ingredient of pesto? A: Basil
Q: "Who said, ""The secret of success is to get up early, work late and strike oil.""" A: John D Rockefeller
Q: In the Bible who was the mother of John the Baptist? A: Elizabeth
Q: Who won a Best Actor Oscar in 1993 for Scent of a Woman, after four previous nominations in the same category? A: Al Pacino
Q: Which is the largest organ of the human body? A: Skin
Q: Frederick Gibberd won the competition to design which Liverpool building? A: Metropolitan Cathedral of Christ the King
Q: What is the birthstone for May? A: Emerald
Q: Which tree, common in Britain, has the Latin name Larix Decidua? A: (European) Larch
Q: Which English novelist won the Nobel prize for literature in 2007? A: Doris Lessing
Q: "In physics, whose third law of motion states that ""for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction""?" A: (Isaac) Newton
Q: The Battle of Blenheim was fought during which war? A: War of the Spanish Succession
Q: The Supper at Emmaus, painted in 1601 and now part of the National Gallery's collection, is by whom? A: (Michelangelo Merisi da) Caravaggio
Q: Who created The Office and Extras with Ricky Gervais? A: Stephen Merchant
Q: "Who said, ""If A is success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut.""" A: Albert Einstein
Q: Which director won his first Oscar in 2007, after five previous nominations in the best director category, for The Departed? A: Martin Scorsese
Q: Harvey Lonsdale Elmes won the competition to design which Liverpool building? A: St George's Hall
Q: In which year did the following happen - Pope John Paul II visited Britain, compact discs went on sale to the public and Grace Kelly died? A: 1982
Q: Which native British tree has the Latin name Taxus Baccata? A: (Common) Yew
Q: What is the derived SI unit of electrical resistance? A: Ohm
Q: How many stars were there on the flag of the USA at the turn of the twentieth century? A: 45
Q: Which English Playwright was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 2005? A: Harold Pinter
Q: The battle of Crecy was fought during which war? A: Hundred Years' War
Q: In which year did the following happen - Microsoft was registered as a trade name, Brotherhood of Man won Eurovision and Mao Zedong died? A: 1976
Q: The Rokeby Venus (c1651), now part of the National Gallery's collection, was painted by whom? A: (Diego) Velazquez
Q: Who created Are You Being Served and Allo Allo with David Croft? A: Jeremy Lloyd
Q: Which film franchise was based on a ride at Disney theme parks? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: The Claret Jug is awarded to the winner of which competition? A: The Open Championship
Q: "What does ""su doku"" mean in English?" A: Single number
Q: b Which London landmark was designed by David Marks and Julia Barfield? A: The London Eye
Q: Politician Herbert Morrison was the grandfather of which member of Tony Blair's cabinet? A: Peter Mandelson
Q: "The aria ""La Donna e Mobile"" comes from which opera?" A: Rigoletto
Q: In which British city was composer Frederick Delius born? A: Bradford
Q: How many lines are there on the London underground railway? A: 12
Q: In Greek mythology, which youth fell in love with his own reflection? A: Narcissus
Q: I Which ocean liner rescued the majority of the Titanic's survivors? A: The Carpathia
Q: What title is given to the wife of an earl? A: Countess
Q: Marita was the codename given to the German invasion of Yugoslavia and which other country? A: Greece
Q: Who is the present King of Jordan? A: Abdullah II
Q: Which former Blue Peter presenter went on to present darts coverage on television? A: Peter Purves
Q: What name is given to a vent on a volcano that emits smoke and gas? A: Fumarole
Q: "Who composed the ""Antarctic Symphony""?" A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: "Which organisation has the motto ""Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity""?" A: FBI
Q: "In which American city did Martin Luther King make his famous ""I have a dream"" speech?" A: Washington DC
Q: "b Which actor played the US president in the TV series ""The West Wing""?" A: Martin Sheen
Q: In Irish folklore what is a merrow? A: A mermaid
Q: Who invernted the game of Monopoly? A: Charles Darrow
Q: Which university opened in Birmingham in 1966? A: Aston
Q: "Who was the court jester in Shakespeare's ""As You Like It""?" A: Touchstone
Q: Which political dynasty leader died in a plane crash and was succeeded by his brother, an airline pilot? A: Sanjay Gandhi
Q: What was the title of Cliff Richard's only UK number one hit during the 1970s? A: """We Don't Talk Anymore"""
Q: Who was the first Secretary General of the United Nations? A: Trygve Lie
Q: "What was the name of the character played by Geoffrey Palmer in ""Butterflies""?" A: Ben Parkinson
Q: What is the Celtic name for Edinburgh? A: Dunedin
Q: In which British city was Europe's first purpose-built prison opened in 1786? A: Liverpool
Q: The bands R.E.M. and the B52s both come from which town in Georgia? A: Athens
Q: To which family of birds does the blackcap belong? A: Warbler
Q: "Which romantic novelist's first book was ""Jigsaw"", published in 1921?" A: Barbara Cartland
Q: Emil Zatopek won the Olympic gold medal in the marathon in 1952. In which event at the same games did his wife Dana also win gold? A: Javelin
Q: In which country was the Young Pretender Charles Edward Stuart born? A: Italy
Q: Which man-made material was first marketed in the USA in the 1950s as Dacron? A: Terylene
Q: "Who wrote the Irish classic play ""Cock A Doodle Dandy""?" A: Sean O'Casey
Q: Which Duran Duran song was the theme of a Bond film? A: """A View to a Kill"""
Q: "The song ""Send in the Clowns"" comes from which musical?" A: """A Little Night Music"""
Q: "What was the name of Honor Blackman's character in the TV series ""The Avengers""" A: Cathy Gale
Q: Who is the Speaker of the House of Commons? A: Michael Martin
Q: What name is given to the historical meeting site of King Henry VIII and King Francis I in 1520? A: The Field of the Cloth of Gold
Q: "Which actor plays the title character in the TV series ""Judge John Deed""?" A: Martin Shaw
Q: Which sea area is adjacent to Sole, Plymouth and Biscay? A: Fitzroy
Q: With which song did Brotherhood of Man win the 1976 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Save All Your Kisses For Me
Q: Which TV family was created by Matt Groening? A: The Simpsons
Q: Who wrote the novel 'To Kill A Mockingbird'? A: Harper Lee
Q: Who is the patron saint of politicians? A: Sir Thomas More
Q: Who is the only person in Britain allowed to have a private army? A: Duke of Atholl
Q: Who originally illustrated A A Milne's Winnie the Pooh' stories? A: E(rnest) H(oward) Shepard
Q: In Greek mythology who was the wife of Orpheus? A: Eurydice
Q: Which religion was founded by Joseph Smith in 1827? A: Mormons
Q: What is the Royal Navy rank equivalent to Air Marshal in the Royal Air Force? A: Vice Admiral
Q: Which sport did Mark Twain describe as 'a good walk ruined'? A: Golf
Q: For what medical condition would a doctor administer an antitussive? A: Coughs
Q: 'The Road to Xanadu' by Simon Callow is a biography of which actor? A: Orson Welles
Q: Which British athlete broke the 5,000 metres world record in 1982? A: David Moorcroft
Q: Which former Prime Minister died in 1947? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: Whose famous last words were allegedly 'I am just going outside and may be some time'? A: (Captain Lawrence) Oates
Q: In the place names Chipping Norton and Chipping Sodbury what does 'Chipping' mean? A: Market
Q: Which sea area is adjacent to Rockall, Sole and Fastnet? A: Shannon
Q: Sister Sledge got to number 1 in June 1985 with which song? A: Frankie
Q: What is the main ingredient of food cooked 'a la lyonnaise'? A: Onions
Q: Sciophobia is the fear of what? A: Shadows
Q: Who wrote the opera 'Boris Godunov' in 1874? A: (Modest) Mussorgsky
Q: Who was editor of Private Eye before Ian Hislop? A: Richard Ingrams
Q: Which US TV cartoon features a cat and a chihuahua? A: The Ren and Stimpy Show
Q: Who wrote the book 'Trainspotting'? A: Irvine Welsh
Q: Who is the patron saint of dancers and entertainers? A: St Vitus
Q: What is the name of the Queen's bodyguard in Scotland? A: Royal Company of Archers
Q: The illustrator Donald McGill is most famous for which type of 'art' work? A: Seaside postcards
Q: Which religion was founded by Guru Nanak? A: Sikhism
Q: What is the highest rank in the Royal Air Force? A: Marshal of the Royal Air Force
Q: Which country's flag is a plain green rectangle? A: Libya
Q: Which sport did William Temple, Archbishop of Canterbury, describe as 'organised loafing'? A: Cricket
Q: What is the colour of the mineral cinnabar? A: Red
Q: Who asked Jesus 'What is truth'? A: Pontius Pilate
Q: Which Hollywood star wrote an autobiography entitled 'In the Arena'? A: Charlton Heston
Q: Who dominated women's swimming in the mid-70s winning 4 gold medals in the 1976 Olympics? A: Kornelia Ender
Q: Which is England's largest castle? A: Windsor Castle
Q: What form of poem can be Petrarchan or Elizabethan depending on its structure? A: Sonnet
Q: Who was the last British Governor of Hong Kong? A: Chris Patten
Q: Phasmaphobia is the fear of what? A: Ghosts
Q: Which South American country will host the 2014 FIFA World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: Which was the first and last European colony in China? A: Macau
Q: According to Douglas Adams what number is the meaning of life? A: 42
Q: In Egyptian mythology who was the god of embalming who also watched over the dead? A: Anubis
Q: What is the lightest chemical element? A: Hydrogen
Q: What gas do all fuels need in order to burn? A: Oxygen
Q: In Roman mythology who was Chief of the gods? A: Jupiter
Q: Professor Robert Langdon is the hero in which best-selling novel? A: Da Vinci Code
Q: The flag of which country depicts an eagle devouring a snake? A: Mexico
Q: What was the name of Billy J Kramer's backing group in the 1960s? A: The Dakotas
Q: N'djamena is the capital of which country? A: Chad
Q: In which Shakespeare play would you find the character Ophelia? A: Hamlet
Q: Which country's national flag features a black two-headed eagle on a red background? A: Albania
Q: In fiction who was Don Diego de la Vega? A: Zorro
Q: What is added to gin to make a pink gin pink? A: Angostura Bitters
Q: In opera, how is the character Cio-Cio San better known? A: Madame Butterfly
Q: How many hurdles are there in a men's 110m race? A: 10
Q: Which was the first X-rated film to win an Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: Which Caribbean island of the Leeward Islands is divided equally between France and Holland? A: St Martin
Q: What was the last silent film in which Chaplin's little tramp appeared? A: Modern Times
Q: Which common male Christian name derives its name from the Greek for horse lover? A: Philip
Q: With which sport would you principally associate the commentator Ted Lowe? A: Snooker
Q: How many people take part in the dance of a quadrille? A: 8
Q: Hepatitis is the inflammation of which organ? A: Liver
Q: With which sport would you associate the commentator Sid Waddell? A: Darts
Q: How many stars are on the European Union Flag? A: 12
Q: Who as at August 2008 is the Lord Chancellor? A: Jack Straw
Q: From what is the oil lanolin obtained? A: Wool
Q: The TV series 'Angel' is-a spin off from which other A: Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Q: Which element takes its name from the Greek for pale green? A: Chlorine
Q: Which leading politician is the MP for Witney? A: David Cameron
Q: In the 1966 film 'The Good the Bad and the Ugly' who played the Ugly? A: Eli Wallach
Q: In Shakespeare who killed Macbeth? A: MacDuff
Q: What is the date of VE Day? A: 8th May
Q: What is the name of the electronic line judge at Wimbledon? A: Cyclops
Q: In Australia what is nicknamed the Coathanger? A: Sydney Harbour Bridge
Q: How many players make up a baseball team? A: 9
Q: What links the English towns of Barton and Hessle? A: The Humber Bridge
Q: In music what is a note if it is neither sharp nor flat? A: Natural
Q: What is the world's northernmost capital city? A: Reykjavik
Q: In which country can the world's largest deposit of nickel be found? A: Russia
Q: Who was the mother of Helen of Troy? A: Leda
Q: Which male singer, in 2008, topped the UK/USA album charts with album 'Home before Dark'? A: Neil Diamond
Q: In the Bible, what is the fourth book of the Old Testament? A: Numbers
Q: Which composer wrote 'The Rite of Spring' in 1913? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Who wrote the books 'The Devil Wears Prada' and 'Chasing Harry Winston'? A: Lauren Weisberger
Q: On television who live at 742 Evergreen Terrace, Springfield? A: The Simpsons
Q: In which country did the rumba originate? A: Cuba
Q: What is the name of the Italian dessert made from coffee soaked biscuit, layered with sweetened cream cheese? A: Tiramisu
Q: The Eustachian tube links the pharynx to which other part of the body? A: The ear
Q: What do you call the form of textile-making using knotting rather than weaving or knitting? A: Macrame
Q: What was the name of the hardworking horse in the George Orwell book 'Animal Farm'? Its character represented the proletariat. A: Boxer
Q: What is the currency of the United Arab Emirates? A: The Dirham
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of gorillas? A: A Band
Q: New Hall Prison is situated close to which English town or city? A: Wakefield
Q: Which elite car company manufacture the Carrera GT model of car? A: Porsche
Q: What colour is a UK domestic 5 amp electrical appliance fuse? A: Black
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin phrase 'In Utero'? A: In the womb
Q: In geometry, how many sides does a hendecagon have? A: Eleven
Q: What is Australia's national flower? A: (Golden) Wattle
Q: What is the name of the apple-based liqueur from Normandy? A: Calvados
Q: Seoul is the capital of South Korea. What is the capital of North Korea? A: Pyongyang
Q: Who was the mother of Achilles? A: Thetis
Q: Which female singer, in 2008, topped the UK and US album charts with the album 'Spirit'? A: Leona Lewis
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1923-1924? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: What is the capital of the American state of Kansas? A: Topeka
Q: In the Bible, what book comes immediately after Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? A: Acts
Q: Which composer wrote 'The Threepenny Opera' (Die Driegroschenoper) in 1928? A: Kurt Weill
Q: Which author's books include the titles 'Body of Evidence', 'Post Mortem' and 'Predator'? A: Patricia Cornwell
Q: What is the name of the fancy biscuits or cakes generally eaten at the end of a meal - their name derives from the French for little oven? A: Petits Fours
Q: What do you call the art of decorating an object by gluing coloured paper cut-outs onto it? A: Decoupage
Q: What was the name of the dog that belonged to the cowboy Roy Rogers? A: Bullet
Q: Who was the presenter of the BBC Radio 4 programme `I'm Sorry Haven't A Clue', who died in 2008? A: Humphrey Lyttleton
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of flamingos? A: A Stand
Q: Lindholme Prison is situated dose to which English town or city? A: Doncaster
Q: Which elite car company manufacture the Europa model of car? A: Lotus
Q: What colour is a UK domestic 3 amp electrical appliance fuse? A: Red
Q: "What is the English translation of the Latin in Vitro""?" A: In Glass
Q: Which Mexican plant is sometimes called the Flower of the Holy Night or Mexican Flame Leaf? A: Poinsettia
Q: Who was the last man to have set foot on the moon? A: Eugene Cernan
Q: Who won the best actress award at the 2008 Oscar awards ceremony for her role in the film 'La Vie En Rose'? A: Marion Cotillard
Q: Who said in 1935 'Guns will make us powerful, butter will only make us fat'? A: Hermann Goering
Q: Which radio station is transmitted on 1089 and 1053 kilohertz on the medium wave across the UK? A: Talksport
Q: Which actor was married to Vivien Leigh and Joan Plowright? A: Sir Laurence Olivier
Q: On which river is High Force Waterfall? A: Tees
Q: Which American football team won the first Superbowl in 1967? A: Green Bay Packers
Q: In the novels by Baroness Orczy what was the real name of the Scarlet Pimpemel? A: Sir Percy Blakeney
Q: In the TV sitcom Frasier, what was the name of Martin Crane's dog? A: Eddie
Q: In which city is the HQ of Unesco? A: Paris
Q: In the Batman films, how is Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot better known? A: The Penguin
Q: On which course is the Scottish Grand National run? A: Ayr
Q: Whose plays included 'Design for Living' and 'Present Laughter'? A: Noel Coward
Q: In which country is the Bolivar the main unit of currency? A: Venezuela
Q: How many counters does each player have in a game of backgammon? A: 15
Q: Who released an album in 1973 called Billion Dollar Babies? A: Alice Cooper
Q: Angelina Jolie is the daughter of which film actor? A: Jon Voight
Q: Which instrument did Glen Miller play? A: Trombone
Q: Sydney is the state capital of which Australian state? A: New South Wales
Q: In which religion is the Torah a sacred text? A: Judaism
Q: Which perfume house produces Obsession and Eternity? A: Calvin Klein
Q: Of what is Vexillology the study? A: Flags
Q: "Which modem ""A"" road mainly follows the Roman road Watling Street?" A: A5
Q: What nationality was the artist Hieronymus Bosch? A: Dutch
Q: Which astronaut hit a golf ball on the moon in February 1971? A: Alan Shepard
Q: Who married Liam Gallagher in 1997? A: Patsy Kensit
Q: Who played Boromir in the film version of The Lord of the Rings directed by Peter Jackson? A: Sean Bean
Q: Who was the first black player to captain England's football team, in 1994? A: Paul Ince
Q: Who was known as the Acid Bath Murderer? A: John George Haigh
Q: In which city is the University of Warwick situated? A: Coventry
Q: What is the name of the nightclub singer who is the central character of the musical 'Cabaret'? A: Sally Bowles
Q: To which family of birds does the though (pronounced chuff) belong? A: Crow
Q: What was the name of the steep cliff on the Capitoline Hill in ancient Rome which was used as an execution site for murderers/traitors? A: Tarpeian Rock
Q: At which film festival is the Golden Bear awarded? A: Berlin
Q: Which fruit is used to make the drink Kirsch? A: Cherries
Q: What was the name of the gentleman thief created by E.W.Hornung? A: Raffles
Q: In the TV sitcom Rising Damp, what was the name of Rigsby's cat? A: Vienna
Q: In which city is the HQ of Interpol? A: Lyon
Q: In the Spiderman films, how is his enemy Norman Osborn better known? A: The Green Goblin
Q: Which jockey won the Derby two years running in 2003 and 2004? A: Kieron Fallon
Q: Who wrote the plays 'Forty Years On' and 'The History Boys'? A: Alan Bennett
Q: In which country is the Dong the main unit of currency? A: Vietnam
Q: How many tiles are there in a standard Mah Jong set? A: 144
Q: Who released the 1970 album called Atom Heart Mother? A: Pink Floyd
Q: Which Star Wars actress was the daughter of Debbie Reynolds? A: Carrie Fisher
Q: Which instrument did Charlie 'Bird' Parker play? A: Saxophone
Q: What is the state capital of Queensland? A: Brisbane
Q: In which religion is the Tibetan Book of the Dead a revered text? A: Buddhism
Q: What was the name of Wellington's horse at Waterloo? A: Copenhagen
Q: Which perfume house produces Opium and Rive Gauche? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: What was the name of the dog that in 1957 became the first mammal in space? A: Laika
Q: What was the name of Sharpe's Sergeant (and later Sergeant Major) in the Bernard Cornwell novels? A: Patrick Harper
Q: Who succeeded Christopher Eccleston as the new Dr Who? A: David Tennant
Q: Who was England's football manager from 1947 to 1963? A: Walter Winterbottom
Q: In which city is the University of Aston situated? A: Birmingham
Q: Who is the main male character of the musical Carousel? A: Billy Bigelow
Q: To which family of birds does the fieldfare belong? A: Thrush
Q: Who was the father of Romulus and Remus? A: Mars
Q: What is the dominant flavour of the drink Curacao? A: Orange
Q: Which prison is guarded by the Dementors in the Harry Potter books? A: Azkaban
Q: What is the administrative centre of Wiltshire? A: Trowbridge
Q: "Who played the Waco Kid in the spoof Western ""Blazing Saddles""?" A: Gene Wilder
Q: What nationality are the pop group Rush? A: Canadian
Q: In what year was the Battle of Little Bighorn? A: 1876
Q: In which novel is the character Alan Breck a fugitive from the English? A: Kidnapped
Q: What was the given name of the wife of Prime Minister Harold Wilson? A: Mary
Q: Members of the Irish Parliament have which two letters after their names? A: TD
Q: Who plays the part of Jessica Fletcher in the TV series 'Murder She Wrote'? A: Angela Lansbury
Q: Sheerness is the main town on which island in the Thames estuary? A: Sheppey
Q: In the nursery rhyme 'Oranges and Lemons', which bells sing 'I owe you five farthings'? A: St Martins
Q: Who wrote the 'Just William' books? A: Richmal Crompton
Q: What was the given name of the wife of Prime Minister James Callaghan? A: Audrey
Q: Bundesliga football team Schalke 04 plays home games in which German town or city? A: Gelsenkirchen
Q: Edward John Smith was captain of which famous ship? A: Titanic
Q: The discount supermarket chain, Aldi, has its HQ in which country? A: Germany
Q: 'Good Wives' and 'Jo's Boys' were sequels to whose most famous novel? A: Louisa May Alcott
Q: In the nursery rhyme 'Oranges and Lemons', which bells sing 'When I am rich'? A: Shoreditch
Q: Which tree is highly valued for gunstocks and decorative veneers for furniture? A: Walnut
Q: Which island in New York harbour was the processing centre for immigrants in the first half of the twentieth century? A: Ellis Island
Q: Which actor played 'Old Mother Riley'? A: Arthur Lucan
Q: Which manufacturer makes a small car called the 'Note'? A: Nissan
Q: What is the name of the TV detective played by Tony Shaloub? A: Monk
Q: Which SS commander died as a result of an assassination attempt in Prague in 1942? A: (Reinhard) Heydrich
Q: Which motorway runs from the M5 near Bromsgrove to a junction with the A44 and A42 near Burton-on-Trent? A: M42
Q: 'One Night in Bangkok' and 'I Know Him So Well' are songs from which musical? A: Chess
Q: Christopher Jones was captain of which famous ship? A: Mayflower
Q: La Liga football team Real Sociedad plays home games in which Spanish town or city? A: San Sebastian
Q: An island in the Bristol Channel gives its name to which shipping area? A: Lundy
Q: In the Bible who is the father of John the Baptist? A: Zacharias
Q: Why is a small sachet of silica gel often used in packaging? A: To absorb moisture
Q: Who was the mountaineer who in 1970, together with Don Whillans, was the first person to scale the south face of Annapurna? A: Dougal Haston
Q: Which actor played 'Mr Pastry' on children's TV? A: Richard Hearne
Q: Which religious sect was founded by Ann Lee in Manchester in 1747? A: The Shakers
Q: The discount supermarket chain Netto has its HQ in which country? A: Denmark
Q: Which composer's first job on leaving school at the age of 15 in 1872, was in a solicitor's office before he joined his father in his music shop in Worcester? A: Sir Edward Elgar
Q: "Who wrote the poem 'A Subaltern's Love Song' about Miss Joan Hunter Dunn, ""Furnish'd and burnish'd by Aldershot sun""?" A: John Betjeman
Q: Georgetown is the capital of which Caribbean country? A: Guyana
Q: Members of the Welsh Assembly have which two letters after their name? A: AM
Q: On which famous motor racing track is the Mulsanne Straight? A: Le Mans
Q: What, in physics, is defined as 'the amount of electrical charge stored for a given electrical potential'? A: Capacitance
Q: What is the main ingredient of the drink 'Lassi'? A: Yoghourt
Q: England's first road congestion charge was introduced in 2002, in which city? A: Durham
Q: In 1975, which was the first city in the world to introduce congestion charges? A: Singapore
Q: The famous bridge at Avignon spans which river? A: Rhone
Q: The Barry Burn is on which famous Scottish golf course? A: Carnoustie
Q: What is lacking by definition in an anhydrous substance? A: Water
Q: Cape Trafalgar is situated in which Spanish province? A: Cadiz
Q: In 1986 which mountaineer became the first to climb all 14 peaks over 8000 metre above sea level? A: Reinhold Messner
Q: George Wigram, Benjamin Wills Newton and John Nelson Darby were three of the founders of which religious sect founded in south-west England in 1831? A: Plymouth Brethren
Q: The Cumberland Gap is a pass in which US mountain range? A: Appalachians
Q: In the Bible who was the father of the disciples James and John? A: Zebedee
Q: Which SS officer was nicknamed 'the Angel of Death'? A: Josef Mengele
Q: Who wrote the song 'Moon River'? A: Henry Mancini
Q: Where in the human body are the deltoid muscles? A: Shoulder
Q: In which country was the West Indian cricket captain Sir Vivian Richards born? A: Antigua
Q: Which famous comic was first issued in Britain on 14 April 1950? A: Eagle
Q: The character Rick Blaine appears in which film? A: Casablanca
Q: In which American state is Edwards Air Force Base? A: California
Q: Which canal connects Inverness and Fort William? A: Caledonian Canal
Q: What is the anatomical name for the armpit? A: Axilla
Q: Cinnabar is the chief ore of which metallic element? A: Mercury
Q: Which poet wrote 'The Lady of Shalott' in 1833? A: Alfred Lord Tennyson
Q: Who was the singer who gave up his seat on the plane that crashed, killing Buddy Holly? A: Waylon Jennings
Q: Who was the leader of the conspirators involved in the Gunpowder Plot in 1605? A: Robert Catesby
Q: What is the name of the central keep of the Tower of London? A: White Tower
Q: Of which band was guitarist Paul 'Bonehead' Arthurs a founder member? A: Oasis
Q: Of which constellation is Deneb the brightest star? A: Cygnus
Q: Which brand of coffee is named after a hotel in Nashville, Tennessee? A: Maxwell House
Q: A sleuth is the group name for what type of mammal? A: Bear
Q: Which US swimmer won 8 medals at the 2004 Summer Olympics, 6 of which were gold? A: Michael Phelps
Q: Which king had daughters named Cordelia, Regan and Goneril? A: King Lear
Q: What was Beethoven's only opera? A: Fidelio
Q: 'While we were marching through Georgia' is a song of the American Civil War. Which union general led the march through Georgia in 1864? A: Sherman
Q: Which Roman road ran from Lincoln to Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: In which country was West Indian cricket captain Sir Garfield Sobers born? A: Barbados
Q: What does 'Chipping' indicate in a place name such as Chipping Norton? A: Market
Q: The post-modern arts complex, built in Paris in 1977, is named after which French president? A: (Georges) Pompidou
Q: In which American state is the United States military academy at West Point? A: New York
Q: In the comedy series 'Rising Damp', what was the Christian name of Miss Jones? A: Ruth
Q: Calamine is the chief ore of which metallic element? A: Zinc
Q: Which poet wrote 'The Lady of the Lake' in 1810? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: 'The Million Dollar Quartet' was an impromptu jam session in December 1956. Elvis Presley, Carl Perkins and Jerry Lee Lewis were three taking part. Who was the fourth? A: Johnny Cash
Q: What name is given to the enclosed courtyard of a medieval castle? A: Bailey
Q: Apart from the Sun, which is the nearest star to our planet? A: Proxima Centauri
Q: What was the Christian name of the founder of the Birdseye frozen food company? A: Clarence
Q: Which fruit has varieties called Eureka, Lisbon and Meyer? A: Lemon
Q: A skulk is the group name for which type of mammal? A: Fox
Q: On which Greek island are the ruins of Knossos? A: Crete
Q: Which Australian Olympic swimming champion announced her retirement in 1973 at the age of 16 years and 9 months? A: Shane Gould
Q: Katherina Minola features in the title of which Shakespeare play? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: Michael Douglas won Best Actor Oscar in 1987 for which film? A: Wall Street
Q: What was Linda McCartney's surname before she married Paul? A: Eastman
Q: Who famously proclaimed 'Ich bin ein Berliner' on 26 June 1963? A: J F Kennedy
Q: Who was president of the Confederate States during the American Civil War? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: What was the Roman name for the city of Bath? A: Aquae Sulis
Q: In which English county is Osborne House? A: Isle of Wight
Q: In which sport is the Uber Cup presented? A: Badminton
Q: Who had a hit with the song Copacabana in 1978? A: Barry Manilow
Q: What does the prefix `xylo' mean, as in xylophone? A: Wood
Q: In which month do the London Promenade Concerts start? A: July
Q: The Swilkin Bridge is a famous feature of which Scottish golf course? A: ST ANDREWS
Q: "Who composed the ballets, ""Billy the Kid"" and ""Rodeo""?" A: AARON COPELAND
Q: "Who played Sally opposite Billy Crystal in the 1989 film, ""When Harry Met Sally""?" A: MEG RYAN
Q: "Licence plates from which U.S. state, include the phrase, ""Great Faces, Great Places""?" A: SOUTH DAKOTA
Q: "On the desk of which American President was there a sign which read, ""The Buck Stops Here""?" A: HARRY S TRUMAN
Q: "Which, chronologically, is the first of the ""Chronicles of Narnia"", although it was the sixth of the series of books written by author C. S. Lewis?" A: THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW
Q: Which transport feature disappeared from the Liverpool waterfront in 1956? A: THE OVERHEAD RAILWAY
Q: In which trade are composing frames and composing sticks used? A: PRINTING
Q: Which TV personality hosted the Eurovision Song Contest when it was held in Britain in the 1960's and 70's? A: KATIE BOYLE
Q: In which European city is the Pergamon Museum, which houses the Ishtar Gate? A: BERLIN
Q: On TV, which actor played the part of C.J., the boss of Reginald Perrin? A: JOHN BARRON
Q: In which U.S. TV series did Alison Janney play the part of C.J. Cregg, a press secretary? A: THE WEST WING
Q: "In which European city is the Maurithuis Museum, which houses Vermeer's, ""Girl with a Pearl Earring""?" A: THE HAGUE
Q: "The song, ""I Whistle A Happy Tune"", comes from which stage and film musical?" A: THE KING AND I
Q: "Who was the original question master on the TV quiz show, ""A Question of Sport""?" A: DAVID VINE
Q: In 1896, a short extension was built on the Liverpool Overhead Railway, from Herculaneum Dock to which final destination on the line? A: DINGLE
Q: "Which was the title of the 7th and final book in the ""Chronicles of Narnia"" by C.S. Lewis?" A: THE LAST BATTLE
Q: "Which supermarket owner coined the phrase, ""Pile 'em high, Sell 'an cheap""?" A: JACK COHEN
Q: "Licence plates from which U.S. state, include the phrase, ""Sweet Home""?" A: ALABAMA
Q: "Who composed the ballet, ""Daphnis et Chloe"" and a ""Piano Concerto for the Left Hand""?" A: MAURICE RAVEL
Q: Amen Corner is a three-hole section on the back nine of which famous American golf course? A: AUGUSTA NATIONAL
Q: In the opera Carmen, what is the name of the soldier who falls in love with Carmen, and ultimately murders her in a fit of jealousy? A: DON JOSE
Q: In which Irish county is the district of Connemara and the town of Athenry? A: GALWAY
Q: Who is currently the Speaker of the House of Commons? A: MICHAEL MARTIN
Q: "In the monologue, ""Albert and The Lion"", what was the name of the lion?" A: WALLACE
Q: According to the 18th century nursery rhyme, after Lucy Locket lost her pocket, which famous courtesan of the day found it? A: KITTY FISHER
Q: "Which 18th century English artist and engraver painted ""The Shrimp Girl"", held in The National Gallery in London?" A: WILLIAM HOGARTH
Q: Britain, France and which other country were the main opponents of Russia in the Crimean War? A: TURKEY
Q: Which two one act plays, first performed in 1954, are set in the dining room of the Beauregard Hotel in Bournemouth? A: SEPARATE TABLES
Q: "Which singer/songwriter wrote the song, ""Hello Mary Lou"" based on a song called, ""Merry, Merry, Lou"", which became a big hit for Ricky Nelson in 1961?" A: GENE PITNEY
Q: Simmenthal cattle were originally bred in which country? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: "Which actress played the title role in the 1945 film, ""Mildred Pierce""?" A: JOAN CRAWFORD
Q: Which powerful poison is extracted from the seeds of the Castor Oil plant? A: RICIN
Q: Which Bulgarian dissident was poisoned on Waterloo Bridge in 1978, with an umbrella into which had been inserted a pellet containing ricin? A: GEORGI MARKOV
Q: Which breed of white or grey horse is used exclusively at The Spanish Riding School in Vienna? A: LIPIZZANER
Q: "Who wrote and recorded the song, ""Blue Suede Shoes"", later a hit record for Elvis Presley?" A: CARL PERKINS
Q: In which 1960's play, revived in London in 2007, does a Parisian architect have three air-hostess fiancees? A: BOEING BOEING
Q: In 1915, which Balkan nation joined W.W.I., on the side of the Central Powers (i.e. Germany), by declaring war on Serbia? A: BULGARIA
Q: Which Roman Catholic sacrament consists of the anointing of a dying person with oil, which has been blessed? A: EXTREME UNCTION
Q: "The ""Bloody Sunday"" massacre of 1972, took place in which Irish city?" A: (LONDON)DERRY
Q: "Shortly after World War I, the Kennel Club gave which new name to the ""Deutsche Schaferhund"", after a region, which had been taken from Germany?" A: THE ALSATIAN
Q: Who opened the bowling alongside Wes Hall for the West Indies on the 1963 and 1966 test tours to England? A: CHARLIE GRIFFITH
Q: "In the opera, ""Tosca"", by Puccini, what is the name of the heroine's beloved, who is executed by firing squad in the final scenes?" A: (MARIO) CAVARADOSSI
Q: "Who was lead singer with the 1960's pop group, ""Amen Corner""?" A: ANDY FAIRWEATHER LOW
Q: The Appian Way began in Rome and ends in which other Italian city? A: Brindisi
Q: Who was the founding father of the US state of Texas? A: Stephen F. Austin
Q: Which animal has species called Grevy's, Cape Mountain and Plains, amongst others? A: Zebra
Q: Who wore two shirts on his execution day? A: Charles I
Q: Europa Point is the southern tip of which British territory? A: Gibraltar
Q: The Mall links Buckingham Palace and where? A: Admiralty Arch
Q: Which opera features the Polovtsian Dances? A: Prince Igor
Q: Who presides over a Court Martial? A: Judge Advocate
Q: Which Olympic city had the animal mascot called Amik the Beaver? A: Montreal
Q: What time was anticipated by Will Kane? A: High Noon
Q: What is the name of the current Downing Street cat? A: Sybil
Q: In cricket who was known as 'Whispering Death'? A: Michael Holding
Q: What kind of animal; is a 'sambar'? A: Deer
Q: Which city in Scotland styles itself as the City of Discovery? A: Dundee
Q: Prior to Arsenal in 2004 which is the only other team to win the League (Div 1) without a defeat? A: Preston North End
Q: A group of female seals is called what? A: Harem
Q: Primrose Day on 19Ih April celebrates which 19th Century statesman? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: Prior to Zinedine Zidane being sent off in the world cup final of 2006 which other French player was also sent off in a World Cup Final (1998)? A: Marcel Desailly
Q: Operation Husky was the code name for Allied landing where? A: Sicily
Q: Hoosiers are natives of which US state? A: Indiana
Q: The film 'Don't Look Now' with Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland was adapted from a book by whom? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: Who is the MP for Sheffield Hallam? A: Nick Clegg
Q: Who follows 'the eight fold path'? A: Buddhists
Q: Which canal system links the River Thames (London) and Birmingham? A: Grand Union
Q: In which country now within the EU was the fictional Hannibal Lector born? A: Lithuania
Q: Who lives at Gracie Mansion? A: Mayor of New York
Q: What starts in Chepstow and ends in Prestatyn? A: Offa's Dyke
Q: The codename 'Corporate' was give to which post war British military operation? A: Falklands War
Q: What famous structure was burned down on 30th November 1936? A: Crystal Palace
Q: Whose official residence is Number One Observatory Circle? A: US Vice President
Q: What is the name of the US presidential helicopter? A: Marine 1
Q: Which Dickens character was apprenticed to 'Old Fezziwig'? A: Ebenezer Scrooge
Q: Which is the longest running Broadway musical in history? A: Phantom of the Opera
Q: Burr Point is the easternmost point of which country? A: Northern Ireland
Q: The MPLA was the independence movement of which African country? A: Angola
Q: Which fictional character arrived in Whitby on board the Demeter? A: Dracula
Q: Whose motto is 'broadcast yourself? A: YouTube
Q: Which opera is set in Catfish Row? A: Porgy and Bess
Q: Brown Willy is the highest point of which moor? A: Bodmin
Q: In Dickens who was jilted by Compeyson? A: Miss Havisham
Q: From which country did Kosovo achieve independence in 2008? A: Serbia
Q: What is the US equivalent of the SAS (Special Air Service)? A: Delta
Q: Who composed 'The Firebird' and 'The Rite of Spring'? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Who famously 'attacked' Russell Harty whilst being interviewed by him? A: Grace Jones
Q: In the Bible who was the husband of Jezebel? A: Ahab
Q: What is the name of Saddam Hussein's home town? A: Tikrit
Q: Who composed the opera 'Lohengrin'? A: Richard Wagner
Q: Give a year in the reign of Ivan the Terrible (Ivan 4th) of Russia? A: 1533 - 1584
Q: On a suit of armour, the poleyn would protect which part of the body? A: Knee
Q: What is the name of the largest lake lying wholly in Canada? A: Great Bear Lake
Q: Formed by the merger of two government departments, what is the name of the combined organisation responsible for the collection of duty, VAT and Income Tax? A: (HM) Revenue and Customs
Q: Which London theatre was the first public building to be lit entirely by electricity? A: Savoy
Q: What kind of animal is a 'Bichon Frise'? A: Dog
Q: In which town or city is the 'Land of Green Ginger? A: Hull
Q: Name the leader of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission who spent time in Iraq looking for 'weapons of mass destruction' prior to the invasion of Iraq? A: Hans Blix
Q: Who played the part of 'Jimmy' in the 1970s TV comedy 'The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin', going on to further success in 'As Time Goes By'? A: Geoffrey Palmer
Q: Name the famous male ballet dancer who defected to the west in 1961 while dancing with the Kirov Ballet in Paris? A: Rudolph Nureyev
Q: Which sport requires a round ball and 'H'- goalposts with a net across their lower half? A: Gaelic Football
Q: Before he became Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams was bishop of which see between 1991 and 2002? A: Monmouth
Q: What is the nickname of new Premiership football team Stoke City? A: The Potters
Q: Who carried out the infamous interview with the Sex Pistols on the Today show in December 1976? A: Bill Grundy
Q: Which is the largest lake in Venezuela? A: Lake Maracaibo
Q: Which government organisation is responsible for the maintenance of motorways and trunk roads? A: Highways Agency
Q: Which breed of moth has the same name as a type of servant? A: Footman
Q: Who was-head-of the Argentine military government at the time of the 1982 Falklands conflict? A: (Leopoldo) Galtieri
Q: "Which pop song includes the lyrics ""and through it all she offers me protection, a lot of love and affection""?" A: Angels
Q: Which mythical character owned a sword named 'Nothung'? A: Siegfried
Q: Who played the part of 'Joan' in the 1970s TV comedy 'The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin', going on to further success in 'Coronation Street'? A: Sue Nicholls
Q: Which Yorkshire town or city has a daily newspaper called the Telegraph & Argus? A: Bradford
Q: What is the first name of Commander Dalgliesh, the character created by author PD James? A: Adam
Q: What is combined with potato to create the dish 'Pommes Dauphine'? A: Choux Pastry
Q: On a suit of armour, the couter would protect which part of the body? A: Elbow
Q: In the Bible who called for the head of John the Baptist? A: Salome
Q: Name the famous male ballet dancer who defected to the west in 1974 while dancing with the Kirov Ballet in Toronto? A: Mikhail Baryshnikov
Q: Which is the oldest original London theatre still in regular use? A: Theatre Royal, Drury Lane
Q: What was the name of the Russian submarine lost in the Barents Sea in August 2000? A: Kursk
Q: What is the nickname of new Premiership football team Hull City? A: The Tigers
Q: What name is given to chicken that is split open down the back, flattened and then grilled? A: Spatchcock
Q: In which Shakespeare play is 'Feste' a character? A: Twelfth Night
Q: Who is Katharina's younger sister in Shakespeare's 'Taming of the Shrew'? A: Bianca
Q: What is the first name of Detective Inspector Rebus, the character created by author Ian Rankin? A: John
Q: Before he became Archbishop of York, John Sentamu was bishop of which see between 2002 and 2005? A: Birmingham
Q: "Which pop song includes the lyrics ""I'm never gonna dance again, guilty feet have got no rhythm""?" A: Careless Whisper
Q: Which mythical character owned a sword named 'Arondite'? A: Sir Lancelot
Q: How many public companies comprise the Dow Jones Index? A: 30
Q: Who became Prince of Wales in 1504? A: Henry 8th
Q: What name is given to the dot on top of the letter 'i'? A: Tittle
Q: Name the soldier, with whom Anna Karenina falls in love, their affair ending tragically in her death? A: COUNT VRONSKY
Q: Although he started and ended his career with Yorkshire, for which other county did Darren Gough play cricket from 2003-07? A: ESSEX
Q: "Which woman, far more famous in another field, wrote the children's books, ""Mr Peabody's Apples"" and ""The English Roses""?" A: MADONNA
Q: "Who composed a set of 30 variations for the harpsichord which he named the ""Goldberg Variations""?" A: J.S. BACH
Q: "Which long running TV series is based on ""The Constable"" series of novels by author Nicholas Rhea?" A: HEARTBEAT
Q: For his role in which film did Al Pacino win the Oscar for best actor in 1992? A: SCENT OF A WOMAN
Q: In 2006, which planet in our solar system was re-classified as a dwarf planet and is now classified alongside Eris and Ceres? A: PLUTO
Q: Which Mexican girl is currently the world's No.1 lady golfer? A: LORENA OCHOA
Q: Perak and Perlis are both states of which South East Asian country? A: MALAYSIA
Q: "On TV, which actor played the parts of Rebus and also D.I. Pat Chappell in ""The Vice""?" A: KEN STOTT
Q: "Which pop singer, tragically killed in a car accident in 1960, sang the song, ""Twenty Flight Rock"" in the 1956 film, ""The Girl Can't Help It""?" A: EDDIE COCHRAN
Q: Who was on the English throne at the start of the Hundred Years War in 1337? A: EDWARD III
Q: Who was on the English throne when the Hundred Years War ended in 1453? A: HENRY VI
Q: "Which pop singer, who survived the car crash in which Eddie Cochran died, sang with a backing group called, ""The Blue Caps""?" A: GENE VINCENT
Q: Who has been horse racing's National Hunt champion jockey every season since 1995-96? A: TONY McCOY
Q: How many moons has the planet Mercury? A: NONE
Q: Who has been nominated for the Oscar awards of best actress or supporting actress a record fourteen times, between 1979 and 2006, winning each award just once? A: MERYL STREEP
Q: "Which actress, who played the part of Candice Stowe in ""Coronation St."", joined the cast of ""Heartbeat"" in 2008, where she plays the part of Dawn Bellamy?" A: NIKKI SANDERSON
Q: Which government minister was shamed in 1992, when actress Antonio de Sancha told the press about his extra marital affair with her? A: DAVID MELLOR
Q: "Who composed the music to the anthem, ""Jerusalem"", written by William Blake""?" A: HUBERT PARRY
Q: Which British actress was married to the actor Rod Steiger from 1959 until 1969? A: CLAIRE BLOOM
Q: With which county did Lancashire fast bowler Dominic Cork start his career in 1990? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: In which Asian city is Orchard Rd. the main shopping street? A: SINGAPORE
Q: "Name the soldier, who marries Bathsheba Everdene, in Hardy's novel, ""Far From the Madding Crowd"", the marriage ending tragically with his murder?" A: SERGEANT FRANK TROY
Q: "Which London station is the subject of William Frith's 1862 painting, ""The Railway Station""?" A: PADDINGTON
Q: "What was advertised with the slogan, ""Let your fingers do the walking""?" A: YELLOW PAGES
Q: In New Zealand, Tui and Kakapos are what type of creature? A: BIRDS
Q: Born in Argentina in 1942, which pianist and conductor has been has been music director of the Berlin State Opera since 1992, and was music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra from 1991 to 2006? A: DANIEL BARENBOIM
Q: Which famous personality married Swedish model, Min Nordegren, in October 2004? A: TIGER WOODS
Q: Which common expression comes from the act in 1887, of Lord Salisbury promoting his nephew, A J Balfour, to the post of Chief Secretary for Ireland? A: BOB'S YOUR UNCLE
Q: "Which actor, who stars as Mac Taylor in the TV series, CSI New York, played the part of Lt. Dan Taylor in the 1994 film, ""Forrest Gump""?" A: GARY SINISE
Q: Who was elected President of Cuba in February 2008? A: RAUL CASTRO
Q: Who was elected Chancellor of Germany in November 2005? A: ANGELA MERKEL
Q: In the bible, who was the son of King Saul, who befriended David, and saved him from being killed by the King? A: JONATHAN
Q: "Which famous film actress starred as Victoria Barkley in the TV series, ""The Big Valley"", the series which spawned the career of actor, Lee Majors?" A: BARBARA STANWYCK
Q: Which Rodgers and Hammerstein musical had the theme of romantic problems among immigrants in San Francisco's Chinatown? A: FLOWER DRUM SONG
Q: Born in Hungary in 1912, which pianist and conductor was music director at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, from 1961-71, and music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra from 1969-91? A: GEORG SOLTI
Q: Which King of England was crowned on Christmas Day? A: WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR
Q: """Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, and what is more, you'll be a man my son"" is the last line of which very famous poem?" A: IF
Q: "What was advertised with the slogan, ""Don't leave home without it""?" A: AMERICAN EXPRESS
Q: Close to the village of St Just, what is the name of the only cape in England? A: CAPE CORNWALL
Q: Which artist used a terrace at St Thomas' Hospital as a vantage point for his series of paintings of the Houses of Parliament? A: CLAUDE MONET
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""Dad's Army"", which character spoke the line, ""Mum won't like it Uncle Arthur""?" A: PRIVATE PIKE
Q: Who did the Italian former model Carla Bruni marry in February 2008? A: NICOLAS SARKOZY
Q: Which is the only letter in the game of Scrabble to score five points? A: THE LETTER K
Q: Which star of Hollywood musicals died in 1987; his straight roles included that of a con man in The Towering Inferno? A: FRED ASTAIRE
Q: Who wrote the novel Room at the Top? A: JOHN BRAINE
Q: In the Beverley Hills Cop films, what is the name of the character played by Eddie Murphy? A: AXEL FOLEY
Q: Which is the longest mountain range in the world? A: ANDES
Q: Whose theme song was 'Minnie the Moocher'? A: CAB CALLOWAY
Q: What is the first name of the wife of French president Nikolas Sarkozy? A: Carla
Q: In which year in the 20th Century were there three Popes? A: 1978
Q: What Is the SI unit of power? A: Watt
Q: What is the SI of force? A: Newton
Q: What Is the first name of the wife of US President Barack Obama? A: Michelle
Q: Which flower is classified into 9 categories, which include; incurve, reflex, spiders, singles, sprays? A: Chrysanthemum
Q: Which flower has varieties which include, pompom, ball, decorative and cactus? A: Dahlia
Q: """Suicide Is Painless"" Is associated with which American TV Show?" A: MASH
Q: Sphalerite is the main ore of which metal? A: Zinc
Q: Malachite is the main ore of which metal? A: Copper
Q: Burkina Faso was known by which name until 1984? A: Upper Volta
Q: In Morse code what letter is signified by dash dash? A: M
Q: What does the adjective taurine signify? A: Bull Like
Q: In which English city would you board a train at Thorpe Station? A: Norwich
Q: On which Caribbean island were England dismissed for 51 in a test match in 2009? A: Jamaica
Q: As at 1.2.2009 who is the coach of St Helens RLFC? A: Mick Potter
Q: Which horse won the 2008 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Denman
Q: On which Caribbean island was a test match abandoned in 2009 after only 10 balls were bowled? A: Antigua
Q: Who is the only Croatian to win men's singles at Wimbledon? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: Which horse won the 2008 Grand National? A: Comply Or Die
Q: As at 1.2.2009. Who is the coach of Warrington Wolves RLFC? A: James Lowes
Q: In which George Elliot novel are the characters Tom And Maggie Tulliver? A: Mill On The Floss
Q: Who was the first Poet Laureate appointed in 1668? A: John Dryden
Q: "Who wrote the best seller ""The Associate""?" A: John Grisham
Q: In which Jane Austin novel are the characters Anne Elliot and Frederick Wentworth? A: Persuasion
Q: "Which character in Shakespeare's Hamlet says ""Beware of entrance to a quarrel but being in, bear't that the opposed may be aware of thee""?" A: Polonius
Q: Of what are you afraid if you suffer from hydrophobia? A: Water
Q: What is the capital of Bermuda? A: Hamilton
Q: In which year did Yuri Gagarin become the first man in space? A: 1961
Q: Of what are you afraid of if you suffer from chromophobia? A: Colour(s)
Q: Who In 1963 became the first woman in space? A: Valentina Tereshkova
Q: Who composed the opera Tristan and Isolde? A: Wagner
Q: Who plays DCI Tom Barnaby on TV? A: John Nettles
Q: Who played Tony Soprano on TV? A: James Gandolfini
Q: Who composed the opera Otello? A: Verdi
Q: Who is the main Patron Saint of France? A: Denis
Q: Who is the main Patron Saint of Germany? A: Boniface
Q: Who was the Greek sorceress who turned Odysseus' men into swine? A: Circe
Q: What was the name of the Dutch MP refused entry into the UK in early 2009? A: Gert Wilders
Q: Which art movement was originally formed by Walter Gropius in 1918 in Weimar? A: Bauhaus
Q: In which year did Mussolini seize power in Italy and the Irish Free State become established? A: 1922
Q: In which year was Gandhi assassinated and the state of Israel set up? A: 1948
Q: "Howard Schultz owner of Starbucks prompted which political figure to ask ""Who the f**k is he?" A: Peter Mandelson
Q: Which art movement was formulated as an anarchic form of expressionism in Zurich in 1916 possibly by poet Tristan Tzara? A: Dada
Q: Who won X Factor in December 2008? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Who was on the throne of England in 1095? A: William II
Q: Which brewery produces the beer London Pride? A: Fullers
Q: Which is the first Old Testament Book named after a person? A: JOSHUA
Q: Which Country's Monarchs were crowned on the Hill of Tara? A: IRELAND
Q: Who was King of England at the outbreak of the Hundred Years War? A: EDWARD III
Q: "The Ali/Frazier fight, billed as ""The Thriller in Manila"" took place in which city?" A: QUEZON CITY
Q: In which country was the comedian Eddie Izzard born? A: YEMEN
Q: Catherine of Braganza, Portuguese princess, was married to which English king? A: CHARLES II
Q: Which famous person (sportsman/filmstar) has the nickname `The Juice'? A: O J SIMPSON
Q: What part of the human body is the lingua? A: TONGUE
Q: Pheidippides reportedly ran the first marathon during the war between Greece and which other country? A: PERSIA
Q: Who composed the opera La Traviata? A: VERDI
Q: On TV what was the name of Tonto's horse? A: SCOUT
Q: What is the collective noun for budgerigars? A: CHATTER
Q: Which singer had the theme song 'Everybody Loves Somebody'? A: DEAN MARTIN
Q: What is the young of a beaver called? A: KITTEN
Q: Eve Pollard is the agony aunt from which daily newspaper? A: DAILY MIRROR
Q: Which perfume house manufactures the perfume Alliage? A: ESTEE LAUDER
Q: "Which statesman made the quotation ""Let us never negotiate out of fear but let us never fear to negotiate?" A: J F KENNEDY
Q: Which element has the symbol Na? A: SODIUM
Q: In which year was the Prime Minister Spencer Percival shot on entering the House of Commons? A: 1812
Q: "In which film did Clint Eastwood sing the song ""I Talk To The Trees'?" A: PAINT YOUR WAGON
Q: Which spirit is mixed with orange juice to make the cocktail known as a screwdriver? A: VODKA
Q: In which war was the Battle of Bunker Hill? A: US WAR OF INDEPENDENCE
Q: "Which football league club is known as ""The Bees""?" A: BRENTFORD
Q: In which long running TV Programme did Trudie Goodwin and Graham Cole appear? A: THE BILL
Q: In which city were the Winter Olympic Games held when John Curry won a gold medal for men's figure skating? A: INNSBRUCK
Q: In Roman Britain where was Vectis? A: ISLE OF WIGHT
Q: Who was King of England at the Battle of Bannockburn? A: EDWARD II
Q: On which island was the singer Freddy Mercury born? A: ZANZIBAR
Q: "Which vocalist and fim star is associated with the famous last words ""That was a great game of golf fellers""?" A: BING CROSBY
Q: Catherine of Valois, French Princess was married to which English king? A: HENRY THE FIFTH
Q: Which famous boxer had the nickname the 'Brockton Blockbuster'? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: What do Americans call what we call a pushchair? A: STROLLER
Q: Which disease has the medical term variola? A: SMALLPOX
Q: In Greek mythology who is the Goddess of Retribution? A: NEMESIS
Q: Who composed the opera La Boheme? A: PUCCINI
Q: In Western films what was the name of Hopalong Cassidy's horse? A: TOPPER
Q: What is the collective noun for moles? A: LABOUR
Q: Which perfume house produces the perfume 'Red Door'? A: ELIZABETH ARDEN
Q: "Which musician made the quotation ""What you said hurt me, I cried all the way to the bank""?" A: LIBERACE
Q: Carson City is the state capital of which American state? A: NEVADA
Q: In the film 'Darby O'Gill and the Little People' which actor not known as a singer, sang 'A Sweet Little Irish Girl'? A: SEAN CONNERY
Q: Which spirit is mixed with Drambuie to make the cocktail known as 'A Rusty Nail'? A: WHISKY
Q: In which war was the Battle of Crecy? A: HUNDRED YEAR WAR
Q: For which film did Julia Roberts win the Best Actress Oscar in 2001? A: ERIN BROCHOVICH
Q: In which TV soap/drama did the actors Steve Halliwell and Mark Charnock appear? A: EMMERDALE
Q: Which field game is played 10 a side for men but 12 a side for women? A: LACROSSE
Q: In music what is Dr Thomas Arne's most famous composition? A: RULE BRITANNIA
Q: What state does Sarah Palin represent as its governor? A: ALASKA
Q: Which beer is brewed at the St James Gate Brewery? A: GUINNESS
Q: On which National Radio Station would you listen to Shelagh Foggerty, Anita Anand and Richard Bacon? A: RADIO 5 LIVE
Q: Which Cherokee Indian gave his name to a tree? A: SEQUOIA
Q: On which national radio station would you listen to Jane Jones, Jamie Crick and John Brunning? A: CLASSIC FM
Q: In which year did 617 Squadron's Dambusters Raid take place? A: 1943
Q: From which plant does natural vanilla flavouring come from? A: ORCHID
Q: In which town or city is Murphy's original brewery located? A: CORK
Q: What US State did Barack Obama become Senator of in 2005? A: ILLINOIS
Q: "From which musical does the song ""The Impossible Dream"" come from?" A: MAN OF LA MANCHA
Q: "From which western film starring John Wayne does the line ""When the legend becomes fact, print the legend""?" A: THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE
Q: The city of Split lies on the coast of which country? A: CROATIA
Q: What is the name of the canal opened in 1931 that circumvents Niagara Falls by linking Lakes Erie and Ontario? A: WELLAND
Q: In 2009 Michaela Tabb became the first female referee of which World Final? A: SNOOKER
Q: Craig Stirling, Sharon McCready and Richard Barrett were the central characters in which late 1960's TV series? A: THE CHAMPIONS
Q: What currency is used on Christmas Island? A: AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR
Q: Muscat is the capital of which country? A: OMAN
Q: Which river is crossed by the bridge Ponte Vasco de Gama? A: TAGUS
Q: In which country in 2008 was the first night time Fl Grand Prix held? A: SINGAPORE
Q: Who is the only woman to have held the post of British Foreign Secretary? A: MARGARET BECKET
Q: What is the official currency of Easter Island? A: CHILEAN PESO
Q: Danny Wilde and Brett Sinclair were the central characters in which 1970s TV Series? A: THE PERSUADERS
Q: Who became Chief Scout in 2009? A: BEAR GRYLLS
Q: In which US State did the Battle of Wounded Knee take place? A: SOUTH DAKOTA
Q: "Who in the 2005 film ""Alexander"" played Alexander the Great?" A: COLIN FARRELL
Q: In which sport do participants use a mawashi? A: SUMO WRESTLING
Q: As at June 2009 who is the first Minister of Northern Ireland? A: PETER ROBINSON
Q: "Which Hollywood star wrote the recent book ""Always Looking Up"" about life as a Parkinson sufferer?" A: MICHAEL J FOX
Q: There are two ski jumps used in Winter Olympic competition, one is 90m what length is the other? A: 120m
Q: Who is the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland? A: HUGH ORDE
Q: Which Gloucestershire town sits on the confluence of the Severn and Warwickshire Avon? A: TEWKESBURY
Q: What name is given to the stomach lining of various domesticated animals prepared and used for food? A: TRIPE
Q: Which country won the Eurovision Song Contest in May 2009? A: NORWAY
Q: In which US State did the Gunfight at the OK Corral take place? A: ARIZONA
Q: What relation to King Herod was Salome? A: STEP-DAUGHTER
Q: Which musical is based on the play The Matchmaker by Thornton Wilder? A: HELLO DOLLY
Q: Who composed the opera Dido and Aeneas which was the first performed in London in 1689? A: PURCELL
Q: "The first number 1 of the 1960s was called ""Starry Eyed"", who sang it?" A: MICHAEL HOLLIDAY
Q: In the Bible who was the father of David? A: JESSE
Q: Which British building celebrated its 900th anniversary in 1965? A: WESTMINSTER ABBEY
Q: Which musical is based on the novel Kipps by H. G. Wells? A: HALF A SIXPENCE
Q: The Summer Olympics of 1956 were held in Melbourne. However in which city were the equestrian events held? A: STOCKHOLM
Q: Who plays Chief Inspector George Gently on television? A: MARTIN SHAW
Q: The Argentinean composer Astor Piazzola made an art form of which dance? A: TANGO
Q: Temple Meads Railway Station is in which English city? A: Bristol
Q: Which sporting technique was invented by the father of ITN newsreader Reginald Bosanquet? A: The Googly
Q: In the rhyme 'The Owl and the Pussycat' which animal performed the wedding? A: The Turkey
Q: Which plant has the Latin name allium sativum? A: Garlic
Q: The dance known as the lambada originates from which country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the more common name for the shrub syringa? A: Lilac
Q: Name a year in Lord Liverpool's tenure as Prime Minister. A: 1812-1827
Q: In which Liverpool street was William E Gladstone born? A: Rodney Street
Q: In which US city was Motown Records founded? A: Detroit
Q: How was Erik Weiss better known? A: (Harry) Houdini
Q: Which Shakespeare play contains the line 'Get thee to a nunnery'? A: Hamlet
Q: Who composed the piano piece 'Fur Elise' in 1810? A: Beethoven
Q: Haemotology is the study of which part of the body? A: Blood
Q: If you flew due east from Brisbane which country would you reach first? A: Chile
Q: Who wrote the play 'Major Barbara' in 1905? A: G B Shaw
Q: Who was world heavyweight boxing champion from 1937 to 1950? A: Joe Louis
Q: Who composed the orchestral work 'The Carnival of the Animals' in 1886? A: (Camille) Saint-Saens
Q: Who wrote the play 'The Alchemist' in 1610? A: Ben Jonson
Q: What nationality was the opera singer Kirsten Flagstad? A: Norwegian
Q: Who first said 'knowledge is power ('scientia potential est') in 1597? A: Francis Bacon
Q: What is the better known name for the confectionary Rahat Lokum? A: Turkish Delight
Q: Who became Canada's first woman Prime Minister in 1993? A: Kim Campbell
Q: Which fruit has varieties Merton Pride and Williams? A: Pears
Q: What is the equivalent rank of an army colonel in the RAF? A: Group Captain
Q: Which musical instrument provides the leader of an orchestra with the concert pitch of the note 'A'? A: The Oboe
Q: Oscar Niemeyer was the chief architect of which capital city from 1956 until 1960? A: Brasilia
Q: What is the name for the study of hormones? A: Endocrinology
Q: Which English city was called Clausentum by the Romans? A: Southampton
Q: In which Scottish town, north of Stirling, was tennis player Jamie Murray born? A: Dunblane
Q: Which painter (1577-1640) was knighted by both Britain and Spain? A: (Sir Peter Paul) Rubens
Q: What name is given to the distance between the two rails of a railway track? A: Gauge
Q: Which composer, born in 1732, wrote the oratorios 'The Creation' and 'The Seasons'? A: (Franz Josef) Haydn
Q: Which musical instrument does President Bill Clinton play? He played this instrument in the Arkansas State Band. A: Saxophone
Q: Alfred Hitchcock made two films of the same name and virtually the same story in 1934 and 1956, the second starring Doris Day and James Stewart. Name the film. The Man Who Knew A: Too Much
Q: On which island did the mutinous crew from the Bounty make their home? A: Pitcairn
Q: Who starred as the villain Max Cady in the 1991 remake of the film 'Cape Fear'? A: Robert de Niro
Q: Which athlete won a gold medal for Great Britain in the 2009 World Championships in Berlin in the triple jump? A: Phillips Idowu
Q: Which US President was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1919? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: In which county would you find the stone circle known as 'Long Meg and her daughters'? A: Cumbria
Q: In which atmospheric city was the Daphne du Maurier short story 'Don't Look Now' set? It was later filmed in 1973. A: Venice
Q: Which bank acquired the Woolwich Building Society in 2000? A: Barclays
Q: What was the middle name of Diana, Princess of Wales? A: Frances
Q: Who was the principal guitarist with the Quintette du Hot Club de France? A: Django Reinhardt
Q: What specific product is associated with the town of Lynchburg Tennessee? A: Jack Daniel's
Q: Who is the narrator for the majority of R L Stevenson's book Treasure Island? A: Jim Hawkins
Q: The Kiel Canal links the North Sea with which other sea? A: The Baltic
Q: Which actor provided the voice for Mr Magoo? A: Jim Backus
Q: In which country was Grinling Gibbons born? A: Holland
Q: The main mouth of the Amazon lies in which country? A: Brazil
Q: Adam Dalgleish is a Scotland Yard detective in whose crime novels? A: P D James
Q: What was the middle name of Princess Diana? A: Frances
Q: Who wrote the novel The Turn of the Screw? A: Henry James
Q: The Australian town of Newcastle is in which state? A: New South Wales
Q: Two of the water signs are Cancer and Scorpio, what is the third? A: Pisces
Q: In the 1940 film Fantasia, who was the Sorcerer's Apprentice? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which South American country was named after an Italian City? A: Venezuela
Q: Rachel, a Hebrew name appears in the Old Testament, it means what? A: Ewe
Q: Name the film in which Arnold Schwarznegger becomes pregnant? A: Junior
Q: Two of the earth signs are Taurus and Capricorn what is the third? A: Virgo
Q: Who captained the first 'rebel' cricket tour of South Africa? A: Graham Gooch
Q: Who wrote the opera Hansel and Gretel? A: Englebert Humperdinck
Q: In which year was the first London Marathon? A: 1981
Q: What was the name given to the atomic bomb that devastated Nagasaki in 1945? A: Fat Man
Q: Name the dragon that guarded treasure in the Hobbit? A: Smaug
Q: The Berlin Wall was breached in 1989, for how many complete years had it stood? A: 28
Q: Name the home of the giants visited in Gulliver's Travels? A: Brobdingnag
Q: The first five books of Hebrew Bible are contained in what Jewish Holy Book? A: Torah
Q: To which family of birds do canaries and siskins belong? A: Finch
Q: By what name is the bird the yaffle more commonly known? A: Green Woodpecker
Q: Which artist painted Bubbles in 1886? A: John Everett Millais
Q: What is the capital of the Seychelles? A: Victoria
Q: In which English county is Aldeburgh? A: Suffolk
Q: Which branch of physics is concerned with the study of low temperatures? A: Cryogenics
Q: Which device did William Oughtred invent in 1621? A: The Slide Rule
Q: What is the capital of Mauritius? A: Port Louis
Q: What is the name of the Edinburgh Cathedral to be found on the Royal Mile? A: St.Giles
Q: Which musical contain the songs, 'Til There Was You and 76 Trombones? A: The Music Man
Q: Name the area of the Adriatic Sea into which the Rive Po flows? A: Gulf of Venice
Q: If a food dish is called navarine, what must it have in it? A: Lamb
Q: What did the Ancient Greeks call the area that now contains Syria, Lebanon and Israel? A: Phoenicia
Q: What is the state capital of North Carolina? A: Raleigh
Q: In Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew, who was the father of Bianca and Katrina? A: Baptista
Q: In which year was the Peterloo Massacre? A: 1819
Q: Name the straits which separate Italy and Sicily? A: Messina
Q: What is the state capital of South Dakota? A: Pierre
Q: How is the statue by Chares of the Sun God Helios better known? A: Colossus of Rhodes
Q: Give a year in the life of Charlotte Bronte? A: 1816 - 1855
Q: In Shakespeare's Twelfth Night, to which Lady is Malvolio the steward? A: Olivia
Q: In which year were the Gordon Riots? A: 1780
Q: Where would you apply to become a keeper of an English lighthouse? A: Trinity House
Q: The Easter Rising against British rule in Ireland took place in which year? A: 1916
Q: Easter Island is a territory of its nearest mainland neighbour, which country is that? A: Chile
Q: Hever Castle in Kent was the childhood home of which English Queen? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: "Standing for words meaning ""The Senate and people of Rome"", which 4 letters appeared on standards carried by Roman soldiers?" A: SPQR
Q: What was the name of the first communications satellite, launched in 1962? A: Telstar
Q: At the 2008 European Football Championships Otto Rehhagel was coach of which country's team? A: Greece
Q: "The last line of which blockbuster film was ""I used to hate the water, I can't imagine why""?" A: Jaws
Q: Which TV series features the characters 'Stanley Marsh' and 'Kyle Broflovski'? A: South Park
Q: Which fish is used to make an Arbroath Smokie? A: Haddock
Q: Which sport is played at the top level by Mardy Fish? A: Tennis
Q: Which English writer, best known for his science fiction, published 'Outline of History' in the 1920s? A: HG Wells
Q: What type of weapon is a 'Katana'? A: (long, single edged) Sword
Q: The island of Trinidad lies seven miles off the coast of which South American country? A: Venezuela
Q: Which US President was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize after his term in office? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: An excess of what in the bloodstream causes jaundice? A: Bile
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear submarine, launched in 1954? A: Nautilus
Q: "Standing for words meaning ""which is what was to be proved"", which 3 letters appear at the end of a mathematical theorem?" A: QED
Q: Dawley New Town changed its name in 1968, how is it now known? A: Telford
Q: Mujibur Rahman was the first president of which country? A: Bangladesh
Q: Bundaberg rum is produced in which country? A: Australia
Q: "The last line of which blockbuster film was ""Good, for a moment there I thought we were in trouble""?" A: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
Q: Which famous ex-sportsman provides the voice for the children's TV programme 'Roary the Racing Car'? A: Stirling Moss
Q: Which shellfish is sometimes called a queenie? A: Scallop
Q: Which pop group took their name from the Gaelic word for family? A: Clannad
Q: Prasutagus was the husband of which famous woman? A: Boudicca
Q: At the 2008 European Football Championships Leo Beenhakker was coach of which country's team? A: Poland
Q: Which tenor created the title roles in Benjamin Britten's operas 'Peter Grimes' and 'Albert Herring'? A: Peter Pears
Q: Theodore Roosevelt was the first US President to receive a Nobel Peace Prize, who was the second? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Which Yorkshire headland is defended by the ancient Dane's Dyke? A: Flamborough Head
Q: In which city is the book 'The Shadow of the Wind' by Carlos Ruiz Zafon set? A: Barcelona
Q: Who succeeded John Prescott as Deputy Leader of the Labour Party in 2007? A: Harriet Harman
Q: Which English writer, best known for his detective fiction, published a fantasy novel entitled 'The Man Who Was Thursday' in 1908? A: GK Chesterton
Q: Which Australian state capital was named after the man who was Governor of New South Wales 1821-25? A: Brisbane
Q: In which month of 1805 was the Battle of Trafalgar fought? A: October
Q: In which castle was Mary Queen of Scots executed? A: Fotheringay
Q: Which singer was shot dead by his father in 1984? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: "Which Shakespearean character said ""Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war""?" A: Mark Antony
Q: Which famous soprano is married to the conductor Richard Bonynge? A: Joan Sutherland
Q: Which 14th century slang term for going insane is derived from the name of an army camp near Mumbai? A: Doolally
Q: Who wrote the 1798 treatise 'An Essay on the Principle of Population'? A: Thomas Malthus
Q: In which month of 1815 was the Battle of Waterloo fought? A: June
Q: Who was appointed deputy to Ian Paisley at the Northern Ireland assembly at Stormont in May 2007? A: Martin McGuiness
Q: Liesel Meminger is the name of the eponymous character in which recent best-selling novel? A: The Book Thief
Q: Which South Wales town was formed in 1921 by the amalgamation of Aberavon and Margam? A: Port Talbot
Q: Which Roman Genera is reputed to have been executed by having molten gold poured down his throat by his Parthian captors? A: (Marcus Licinius) Crassus
Q: What type of weapon is a 'twibill'? A: (double-bladed) Axe
Q: Which Australian state capital is close to the River Torrens? A: Adelaide
Q: What is the name of the RSPB reserve just to the north of Flamborough, famous for its nesting seabirds? A: Bempton Cliffs
Q: Which economist wrote 'The Great Crash, 1929'? A: JK Galbraith
Q: Which Shakespearean character was the daughter of Brabantio? A: Desdemona
Q: Which singer, who had four no.1 hits in the UK, was shot dead by a Los Angeles hotel manageress in 1964? A: Sam Cooke
Q: In which mid west state is the first Primary of the US Presidential election traditionally held? A: Iowa
Q: Which children's author created Tracey Beaker? A: Jacqueline Wilson
Q: Who wrote The Origin of Species in 1859? A: CHARLES DARWIN
Q: Which comedian is married to Pamela Stephenson? A: BILLY CONNOLLY
Q: Who shot Lee Harvey Oswald after his arrest for the assassination of John F Kennedy? A: JACK RUBY
Q: The Secret Garden and Little Lord Fauntleroy are works by which writer? A: FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT
Q: Where in London can statues of George IV, Sir Henry Havelock and Sir Charles Napier be found? A: TRAFALGAR SQUARE
Q: Which five foot tall French artist famously produced posters for the Moulin Rouge? A: HENRI TOULOUSE LAUTREC
Q: Who was known as 'The King of Ragtime' composing such works as Maple Leaf Rag and The Entertainer? A: SCOTT JOPLIN
Q: Which 1973 film used The Entertainer as its theme music? A: THE STING
Q: What computer component is Intel most associated with producing? A: PROCESSORS
Q: Which river rises in the Pennines, flows through Settle and Preston before reaching the sea at Lytham St Annes? A: THE RIBBLE
Q: What is the full name of the youngest of the Spice Girls? A: EMMA BUNTON
Q: Queen Alexandra was the wife of which British King? A: EDWARD VII
Q: In the old road safety advertisements, what kind of animal was Tufty? A: SQUIRREL
Q: What is the unfortunate nickname of Portsmouth and England goalkeeper David James, thanks to his occasional errors? A: CALAMITY
Q: What is the Dewey Decimal System used to classify? A: BOOKS
Q: What was the name of the otter in Henry Williamson's famous 1927 novel? A: TARKA
Q: The 1990 film The December Bride starring Donal McCann, Saskia Reeves and Ciaran Hinds, is set in which country? A: IRELAND
Q: Sir Joshua Reynolds was the first president of which institution, founded in 1768? A: THE ROYAL ACADEMY
Q: Born in 1977, who is the Queen's oldest grandchild? A: PETER PHILLIPS
Q: Which comedy series, running from 1989 to 1994, starred Anton Rodgers as a solicitor who falls for a much younger woman, played first by Eve Matheson and subsequently by Lesley Dunlop? A: MAY TO DECEMBER
Q: In which country did the failed Decembrist uprising take place in 1825? A: RUSSIA
Q: The House of Braganza ruled which country from 1640 to 1910? A: PORTUGAL
Q: Which animals make up the mammalian order cetacea? A: WHALES,
Q: Which actor, who achieved worldwide fame in a television series of the late 1970s and 80s was the son of the actress and singer Mary Martin? A: LARRY HAGMAN
Q: Who compiled the significant 1942 report 'Social Insurance and Allied Services'? A: SIR WILLIAM BEVERIDGE
Q: Which composer has won Academy Awards for Best Original Score for Born Free, Out of Africa, and Dance with Wolves? A: JOHN BARRY
Q: Which Russian newspaper had a title that translated into English as 'Truth'? A: PRAVDA
Q: The 18th century politician John Montague was responsible for the creation of what food dish? A: THE SANDWICH
Q: What is the name of the railway company that operates services between St Pancras, the East Midlands and South Yorkshire? A: MIDLAND MAINLINE
Q: Who starred as Paul Kersey in the five Death Wish films? A: CHARLES BRONSON
Q: In western astrology, to which element do Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces belong? A: WATER
Q: Alfredo Stroessner was a dictator of which South American country from 1954 to 1989? A: PARAGUAY
Q: John Goodman played Dan Connor, in which American TV comedy series? A: ROSEANNE
Q: Which board game is based around European power politics leading up,to the First World War? A: DIPLOMACY
Q: Who was the Democratic candidate who lost to George Bush in the US Presidential election in 1988? A: MICHAEL DUKAKIS
Q: Who was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion from 1978 to 1985, defending his title 20 times before losing to Michael Spinks? A: LARRY HOLMES
Q: In what year did Doctor Who start on television? A: 1963
Q: Which writer was the father of Christopher Robin? A: A A MILNE
Q: Which film had the tagline 'just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water'? A: JAWS II
Q: In Greek mythology, how are the nine daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne collectively called? A: MUSES
Q: In The Tempest, what is the name of Prospero's daughter? A: MIRANDA
Q: Sandwich, Little Whiskered and Arctic are all types of which bird? A: TERN
Q: Which 1937 film about boxing, starring Edward G Robinson, was remade in 1962, as a musical, starring Elvis Presley? A: KID GALAHAD
Q: In Greek mythology, who saved Andromeda from the Kraken, a large sea monster? A: PERSEUS
Q: Who is the present Prime Minister of Canada? A: STEPHEN HARPER
Q: Whereabouts in the human body is the zygomatic bone situated? A: THE CHEEK
Q: "Which author wrote the lines, ""Home is the sailor, home from the sea, and the hunter, home from the hill""?" A: R.L. STEVENSON
Q: Which treaty ended the Franco-Prussian war in 1871? A: TREATY OF FRANKFURT
Q: The M32 motorway connects the M4 to which English town or city? A: BRISTOL
Q: Gannymede is the largest moon, orbiting which of the planets? A: JUPITER
Q: Who, in 2006, became the first man to be sent off in a UEFA Champions league final? A: JENS LEHMANN
Q: Which instrument is played by the American classical musician, Carlo Curley? A: THE ORGAN
Q: Which film actress, born Tula Finklea in Texas in 1922, died in June 2008, aged 88? A: CYD CHARISSE
Q: In the 1960's, which car company, part of BMC, made models called the Kestrel and the Elf? A: RILEY
Q: Which is the largest moon, orbiting the planet Neptune? A: TRITON
Q: The M606 motorway connects the M62 to which English town or city? A: BRADFORD
Q: In which city was the congress held in 1814-15, which agreed the settlement of Europe after the Napoleonic Wars? A: VIENNA
Q: Give a year in the life of the composer, Henry Purcell? A: 1659-1695
Q: A native of South America, the pudu is the smallest known species of which animal? A: THE DEER
Q: Whereabouts in the human body is the calcaneus bone situated? A: THE HEEL
Q: Who is currently the Prime Minister of Eire? A: BRIAN COWEN
Q: In Greek mythology, which Queen of the Amazons was accidentally killed by her ally, Amazon Queen Penthesilea? A: HIPPOLYTE
Q: Julie Jordan and Mr Snow are both characters in which stage and film musical? A: CAROUSEL
Q: A plant described as etoliated has been grown lacking what? A: LIGHT
Q: "Which American big band leader had as his theme song, the tune, ""I'm Getting Sentimental Over You""?" A: TOMMY DORSEY
Q: The Great Land Rush of 1889 took place in which state of the USA? A: OKLAHOMA
Q: "Name the English pottery designer, whose ""Bizarre"" ware from the 1930's is still much sought after?" A: CLARICE CLIFF
Q: Which tree is also known as the Trembling Poplar? A: THE ASPEN
Q: The flag of Venezuela is divided into three bands. Two of the colours are red and yellow. What is the third? A: BLUE
Q: "Which author wrote the classic Russian novel, ""The Brothers Karamazov""?" A: FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY
Q: Which Italian coastal resort is served by Federico Fellini Airport? A: RIMINI.
Q: "Who or what is ""The Telegraph Toughie""?" A: A CROSSWORD PUZZLE
Q: Who was the Scottish Labour Party leader, who resigned in June 2008, after failing to declare donation to her leadership campaign in 2007? A: WENDY ALEXANDER
Q: Hawkes Bay is a wine-growing region in which country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Who is the leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party, and currently, the First Minister of Scotland? A: ALEX SALMOND
Q: "What was the name of the comic book character, ""The Tough of The Track""?" A: ALF TUPPER
Q: Etihad is the national airline of which Middle Eastern country? A: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Q: "Which author wrote the classic French novel, ""Therese Raquin""?" A: EMILE ZOLA
Q: The flag of Hungary is divided into three bands. Two of the colours are red and white. What is the third? A: GREEN
Q: Originating in Italy, what kind of food is pecorino? A: CHEESE
Q: "Name the German born, British art historian, who wrote a series of books entitled, ""The Buildings of England"", between 1951 and 1974?" A: NIKOLAUS PEVSNER
Q: According to the bible, Zaccariah was the father of which New Testament figure? A: JOHN THE BAPTIST
Q: The Battle of Bull Run, also called the 1st battle of Manassas, was fought in 1861, in which state of the USA? A: VIRGINIA
Q: Ceratopsian dinosaurs are so named because they had what physical feature? A: A HORN
Q: Which horse, ridden by Kevin Manning, won the 2008 Epsom Derby? A: NEW APPROACH
Q: The Cocos Islands in the Indian Ocean are a territory of which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In an alphabetical list of world countries, what comes between The Maldives and Malta? A: Mali
Q: "Which fellow rocker, whose biggest hit was ""Be-Bop-A-Lula"", survived the car crash which killed Eddie Cochrane in 1960?" A: Gene Vincent
Q: "Which country singer, whose biggest hit was ""Crazy"", was killed in a plane crash in 1963?" A: Patsy Cline
Q: "Which actor played US President James Dale in the 1996 film ""Mars Attacks!""?" A: Jack Nicholson
Q: "Which actor played US President Andrew Shepherd in the 1995 film ""The American President'?" A: Michael Douglas
Q: What would you be afraid of if you suffered from demophobia? A: Crowds
Q: "Which former PM wrote the memoirs ""The Downing Street Years"" and ""The Path to Power""?" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: The wife of which former PM has written books on the soprano Joan Sutherland and the PM's country house, Chequers? A: John Major
Q: In 1924, which was the first country ever to host the Summer and Winter Olympics in the same year? A: France
Q: In 1936, which was the last country ever to host the Summer and Winter Olympics in the same year? A: Germany
Q: Which model was married to photographer David Bailey for 10 years, from 1975? A: Marie Helvin
Q: Which model was married to singer Billy Joel for 9 years, from 1985? A: Christie Brinkley
Q: Which late 1990's pop duo was made up of Karen and Shellie, the daughters of 1960's singer Brian Poole? A: Alisha's Attic
Q: Which early 1990's pop trio was made up of Carnie, Wendy and Chynna, the daughters of members of 1960's bands The Beach Boys and The Mamas and the Papas? A: Wilson Phillips
Q: What is the common name for the part of the human bone with the comparatively unprotected ulnar nerve? A: Funny Bone
Q: Found in the human body, what is the more common name for myeloid tissue? A: Bone Marrow
Q: Situated in Cheshire, on what canal would you find the Anderton Boat Lift? A: Trent & Mersey
Q: "Members of which London-based sporting club wear a yellow and red tie known as the ""Egg & Bacon""?" A: MCC
Q: "Members of which London gentleman's club wear a pink and green tie known as the ""Salmon & Cucumber""?" A: Garrick Club
Q: "The football chant ""Here We Go"" is sung to the tune of which Sousa march?" A: Stars and Stripes Forever
Q: "The football chant ""Who Ate All The Pies"" is sung to which music-hall tune?" A: Knees Up Mother Brown
Q: What variety of grape is used to produce the Italian red wine Chianti? A: Sangiovese
Q: What variety of bean is used to produce beansprouts, popular in Oriental cuisine? A: Mung
Q: Berengaria of Navarre was the queen of which English King? A: Richard I
Q: Catherine of Braganza was the queen of which English King? A: Charles II
Q: "Which comic actor had two top ten hits, both in 1962, with ""Hole in the Ground"" and ""Right Said Fred""?" A: Bernard Cribbins
Q: "Which one-man band had two top ten hits, both in 1968, with ""Rosie"" and ""Blue Eyes""?" A: Don Partridge
Q: Which former US First Lady founded, in 1982, a well-known drug and alcohol rehabilitation centre? A: Betty Ford
Q: Who was the first actor to win the Academy Award for Best Actor posthumously? A: Peter Finch
Q: Directed by John Lasseter, what was, in 1995, the first film to be entirely computer-generated? A: Toy Story
Q: Journalist and writer Martha Gellhorn was the first wife of which author? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: Writer Roald Dahl was the husband of which Oscar-winning actress? A: Patricia Neal
Q: South African rugby winger Bryan Habana was named after which famous English sportsman? A: Bryan Robson
Q: Singer Alecia Moore first hit the charts in 2000 under what one-word name? A: Pink
Q: In 1994, Sannie Carlson became the first ever non-British singer to make a chart debut at number one - under what one word name? A: Whigfield
Q: The ancient cities of Leptis Magna and Cyrene can be found in which modern-day country? A: Libya
Q: The ancient cities of Troy and Ephesus can be found in which modern-day country? A: Turkey
Q: When Muttiah Muralitharan took his record-breaking 709th test wicket, which England player was the victim? A: Paul Collingwood
Q: Which snooker player has scored a record 709 centuries in professional tournaments? A: Stephen Hendry
Q: Arlanda airport serves which European capital city? A: Stockholm
Q: Ruzyne airport serves which European capital city? A: Prague
Q: Scotsman Ivor Robson introduces the competitors in which annual sporting event? A: Open Golf Championship
Q: "From the Arabic for ""path"", what is the name given to Islamic law?" A: Sharia
Q: Which country's currency changed from the Pound to the Euro in January 2008? A: Cyprus
Q: Which country's currency changed from the Lira to the Euro in January 2008? A: Malta
Q: How many toes are there on each foot of an ostrich? A: 2
Q: How many pairs of chromosomes does a human have? A: 23
Q: Which Scotland Yard detective is frequently upstaged by the crime-fighting abilities of Sherlock Holmes? A: Inspector Lestrade
Q: Featured more regularly on TV than in the original books, which Scotland Yard detective is regularly helped (or hindered) by the efforts of Hercule Poirot? A: Chief Inspector Japp
Q: The world's first what were installed outside the Houses of Parliament on 22nd October 1868? A: Traffic Lights
Q: Luxardo is the most widely-available brand of which alcoholic spirit? A: Sambuca
Q: What name is given to an island of coral that surrounds a lagoon? A: Atoll
Q: What name is given to a narrow strip of land which connects two larger land masses? A: Isthmus
Q: "Who composed the scores for the Alfred Hitchcock movies ""North By Northwest"" and ""Psycho""?" A: Bernard Herrmann
Q: Which city, the fourth largest in the Czech Republic, is renowned for its beer production and is the home of Skoda? A: Plzen
Q: "Named after a service station on the M4, which chef is proprietor of ""The Fat Duck"" and has been ""In Search of Perfection"" in print and on the media?" A: Heston Blumenthal
Q: On which river does St Petersburg stand? A: Neva
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Middlemarch' in 1869? A: George Eliot
Q: On a Monopoly board, what lies between Vine Street and The Strand? A: Free Parking
Q: What name is given to a straight line that joins any two points on the circumference of a circle? A: Chord
Q: On which river does Phnom Penh stand? A: Mekong
Q: What was the Christian name of the character played by Tim Healy in 'Auf Wiedersehen Pet'? A: Dennis
Q: What is the capital of Armenia? A: Yerevan
Q: Which football league club plays its home games at the Weston Homes Community Stadium? A: Colchester United
Q: Who succeeded Robin Day as regular presenter of Question Time, in June 1989? A: Peter Sissons
Q: What was the first Martin Scorsese film that Robert De Niro appeared in, released in 1973? A: Mean Streets
Q: In which war was the Battle of the Ebro (Batalia del Ebro) fought? A: Spanish Civil War
Q: Who founded Britain's first University museum in 1683? A: Elias Ashmole
Q: Who was Mohammed Reza Pahlavi? A: (The last) Shah of Iran
Q: How was Lev Davidovitch Bronstein better known? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: Who signs himself as Ebor? A: Archbishop of York
Q: On which plateau in 1759 did the British defeat the French and take control of Quebec? A: The Plains of Abraham
Q: Which weather phenomenon translates from the Spanish words for 'little boy'? A: El Nino
Q: In terms of surface area, which is the largest body of water in the British Isles? A: Lough Neagh
Q: Who was named European Football Player of the Century in 1999? A: Johan Cruyff
Q: Which 1910 comic novel by H G Wells features the Potwell Inn in Sussex? A: The History of Mr Polly
Q: Which UK group's fourth and final number one was 'Beat Surrender' in 1982? A: The Jam
Q: Which London thoroughfare gave its name to a 2003 novel by Monica Ali? A: Brick Lane
Q: "Who wrote the novels ""Rosemary's Baby"", ""The Stepford Wives"" and ""The Boys from Brazil""?" A: Ira Levin
Q: Who is the youngest male actor to have won the Best Actor Oscar? A: Adrien Brody
Q: Who is the oldest male actor to have won the Best Actor Oscar? A: Henry Fonda
Q: What was the name of the junior TV Times magazine that ran from 1971 to 1994? A: Look-In
Q: In 1918 Kaiser Wilhelm II was exiled to which country? A: The Netherlands
Q: Which sunken ship lies on the floor of Pearl Harbour as a memorial to those killed in the attack of 7 December 1941? A: USS Arizona
Q: Which gas makes up 95% of the atmosphere of the planet Mars? A: Carbon Dioxide
Q: What brand name was registered by the Wolverine Shoe and Tanning Company in 1961? A: Hush Puppies
Q: Ashkabat is the capital of which country? A: Turkmenistan
Q: In which city is the Roslin Institute, the location of the cloning of 'Dolly the Sheep'? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which structure links the English towns of Barton and Hessle? A: Humber Bridge
Q: Which English football league team play their home games at Griffin Park? A: Brentford
Q: Since 1991, where has the annual Crufts Dog Show taken place? A: NEC Birmingham
Q: "The Impressionist movement got its name from a painting ""Impression Sunrise"" exhibited in 1874; who was the artist?" A: Claude Monet
Q: The young soldier Paul Baumer is the narrator and central character in which 1929 novel? A: All Quiet on the
Q: In which series of children's books, first published in 1930, would you encounter the Blackett family and the Walker family? A: Swallows and
Q: Who played the character Gene Hunt in the UK TV series 'Life on Mars' and 'Ashes to Ashes'? A: Phillip Glenister
Q: Who starred in the TV series Tarzan between 1966 and 1969? A: Ron Ely
Q: What does the Spanish word 'tapas' literally mean? A: 'Cover' or 'lid'
Q: What is measured on the Scoville scale? A: The heat of chillies
Q: Hindu god Brahma emerged from which part of the body of Vishnu? A: The navel
Q: What is the capital of St Lucia? A: Castries
Q: England's longest waterfall, Cauldron Snout, lies on which river? A: River Tees
Q: What is the name of the longest river in Scotland? A: River Tay
Q: After which chemical element is Argentina named? A: Silver
Q: Which former England international footballer lasted 36 days in charge of Manchester City in 1996? A: Steve Coppell
Q: What is the most common non-contagious disease in the world? A: Tooth decay
Q: In Egyptian mythology, who is the sun god? A: Ra
Q: """The course of true love never did run smooth"" is a quotation from which Shakespeare play?" A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM
Q: Which vegetable has varieties called Ormskirk and Spring Hero? A: CABBAGE
Q: What is the nickname for New Orleans? A: THE BIG EASY
Q: What is the collective noun for bears? A: SLEUTH
Q: On which River does Newport, Isle of Wight stand? A: MEDINA
Q: What do the Americans call what we call noughts and crosses? A: TIC TAC TOE
Q: 'I'll be there for you' is the theme tune for which TV programme? A: FRIENDS
Q: Who was the Greek God of Rain and Cupbearer to the Gods, son of King Tros of Troy? A: GANYMEDE
Q: How many days is the gestation period of a domestic dog (5 days either way? A: 60
Q: Which modem day comedian said, 'marriage is a wonderful invention but then again so is the bicycle repair kit'? A: BILLY CONNOLLY
Q: What is the symbol for the chemical element Iron? A: Fe
Q: Who was on the British Throne in 1720? A: GEORGE I
Q: Which Scottish league Football Team has the nickname 'The Jags'? A: PARTICK THISTLE
Q: In which TV drama series would you find the actor Graham Cole? A: THE BILL
Q: In which US State is the highest mountain in America? A: ALASKA
Q: Give a year in the life of painter Leonardo Da Vinci? A: 1452-1519
Q: In which English County is Fortheringay Castle? A: NORTHAMPTONSHIRE
Q: If you were celebrating your Sugar Wedding Anniversary for how many years would you have been married? A: SIX
Q: 'Up Where We Belong' was an Oscar winning song from which film? A: AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN
Q: Caroline of Brunswick, a German Noblewoman was married to which British King? A: GEORGE IV
Q: Which famous cricketer had the nickname Big Bird? A: JOEL GARNER
Q: From which country does the wine Tokay come? A: HUNGARY
Q: If you suffered from gymnophobia what would your fear be? A: NUDITY
Q: In which war was the Battle of Castillion fought? A: HUNDRED YEAR WAR
Q: "Who composed the opera "" Il Trovatore""?" A: VERDI
Q: Damon Alban, Graham Coton, Alex James and Dave Roundtree were members of which pop group? A: BLUR
Q: What was the previous occupation of actor Clint Eastwood? A: SWIMMING INSTRUCTOR
Q: 'Neither a lender nor a borrower be' is a quotation from which Shakespeare play? A: HAMLET
Q: Which vegetable has varieties called Tokyo Slicer and King of the Rage? A: CUCUMBER
Q: What is the alternative name for the Gravelly Hill interchange? A: SPAGHETTI JUNCTION
Q: In which year did the Boston Tea Party take place? A: 1773
Q: What is the collective noun for magpies? A: A TIDING
Q: What do the Americans call what we call a curriculum vitae? A: RESUMÉ
Q: Drum Majorette was until 1970 the theme tune for which long-running TV programme? A: MATCH OF THE DAY
Q: Who was the Greek Goddess of the Moon, daughter of Hyperion and Thea? A: SELENE
Q: How many days is the gestation period of a domestic cat (5 days either way)? A: 52
Q: "To whom is the following quotation attributed ""A woman is only a woman but a good cigar is a smoke""?" A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: What is the symbol for the chemical element copper? A: Cu
Q: Who was on the British throne in 1320? A: EDWARD II
Q: Which Scottish League Football Team has the nickname 'The Jam Tarts'? A: HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN
Q: In which TV drama/soap would you find the actress Deena Payne? A: EMMERDALE
Q: What was the capital of America before Washington DC? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: In which English County is Huntingdon Castle? A: CAMBRIDGESHIRE
Q: 'Take my breath away' was an Oscar winning song from which film? A: TOP GUN
Q: Caroline of Ansbach, a German noblewoman, was married to which British King? A: GEORGE II
Q: Which famous golfer had the nickname Super Mex? A: LEE TREVINO
Q: If you suffered from peladophobia, what would be your fear? A: BALD PEOPLE
Q: Who composed the opera Prince Igor? A: BORODIN
Q: In which sport is there a hog line? A: CURLING
Q: What was the previous occupation of the novelist George Orwell? A: POLICEMAN
Q: Who wrote the French Lieutenant's Woman? A: JOHN FOWLES
Q: With which sport would you associate Kevin Ashurst? A: FISHING
Q: Which actress won an Oscar for her performance in 'Two Women'? A: SOPHIA LOREN
Q: How many sides has a dodecagon? A: 12
Q: In which year was the General Strike? A: 1926
Q: Who wrote the TV series 'Bread' and 'Butterflies'? A: Carla Lane
Q: How many squares make up a standard Sudoku grid? A: 81
Q: Who was Walter Mondale's female running mate in the 1984 US Presidential election? A: (Geraldine) Ferraro
Q: Who played 'The Charmer' in the TV series of that name? A: Nigel Havers
Q: Which Scottish poet had the middle name 'Topaz'? A: William McGonagall
Q: In which year was Britain's currency decimalised? A: 1971
Q: Which General took command of the French forces at Verdun at the beginning of 1916? A: (Philippe) Petain
Q: Which Russian composer 1882-1971, wrote the ballets 'Firebird' and 'Petrushka'? A: (Igor) Stravinsky
Q: Which sea lies between European and Asian Turkey and between the Bosporus and the Dardanelles? A: Marmara
Q: How many squares are visible on a standard Rubik Cube? A: 54
Q: Who wrote the 'Cadfael' series of novels? A: Ellis Peters
Q: What was the name of the rocket launching site in Australia, used for early British space missions? A: Woomera
Q: Which female candidate was beaten by Nicolas Sarkozy in the 2007 French Presidential election? A: (Segolene) Royale
Q: In which South American country is Europe's Spaceport, Kourou? A: French Guiana
Q: Name the famous American pioneer who was involved in marking out the Wilderness Trail in the west and founded the first settlement in Kentucky which was named after him? A: Daniel Boone
Q: Keswick stands at the northern end of which Lake District lake? A: Derwent Water
Q: The Swan-Hunter Shipyard is/was on which river? A: Tyne
Q: Which is the longest London Underground line? A: Northern
Q: Which sea lies to the northwest of the Crimea? A: Sea of Azov
Q: Which general defended Moscow from the Germans in 1941? A: Zhukov
Q: Which company produces the fragrances 'Opium' and 'Kouros'? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: Distances from Paris are measured from Kilometre Zero, at which building is this situated? A: Notre Dame
Q: In the 'Goon Show', what is the name of the blustering major? A: Bloodnock
Q: Which singer had a number 1 hit album in 2008 entitled 'Home Before Dark'? A: Neil Diamond
Q: Glenridding stands at the southern end and Pooley Bridge at the northern end of which Lake District lake? A: Ullswater
Q: Which Russian composer 1844-1908, wrote the operas 'The Snow Maiden' and 'The Golden Cockerel'? A: Rimsky-Korsakov
Q: What name is given to the principal academic and administrative officer of a university? A: Vice-Chancellor
Q: Name the 14 year old British girl who won the Wimbledon Girl's Championship in 2008. A: Laura Robson
Q: Which river forms part of the border between Namibia and South Africa? A: Orange
Q: Which Danish born physicist won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922 and devised an atomic model? A: Niels Bohr
Q: From what is the Indian dish dhal made? A: Lentils
Q: Which newspaper was founded in 1909, merged with the Daily Graphic and finally closed and merged with the Daily Mail in 1971? A: Daily Sketch
Q: Which South American soldier and statesman was also known as 'The Liberator'? A: Simon Bolivar
Q: After which legendary character is the airport at Finningley near Doncaster named? A: Robin Hood
Q: Name the 14 year old boy who dived for Britain at the 2008 Olympic games? A: Tom Daley
Q: A 'Tiler' is the name given to a door-keeper of which sort of institution? A: Masonic Lodge
Q: Which company produces the fragrances 'Escape' and 'Eternity'? A: Calvin Klein
Q: Which weekly newspaper was founded by Robert Maxwell in 1990 and folded in 1998 when owned by the Barclay brothers? A: The European
Q: What name is given to a university department that offers a particular area of study? A: Faculty
Q: Which parallel forms much of the border between Canada and the USA? A: 49th
Q: In which of Gilbert & Sullivan's works does the song 'The Sentry's Song' appear? A: Iolanthe
Q: In which capital city could one travel on 'klongs' and visit 'wats'? A: Bangkok
Q: In the game of darts, what is the line called behind which a thrower must stand? A: Oche
Q: Which Hollywood Producer produced the films King of Kings (1960) El Cid and 55 Days at Peking? A: SAMUEL BRONSTON
Q: Brian Fletcher won the Grand National on Red Rum and which other horse? A: RED ALLIGATOR
Q: "In which Sunday newspaper would you get the ""You Magazine"" supplement?" A: MAIL ON SUNDAY
Q: Who in 1965 was the first presenter of Tomorrow's World? A: RAYMOND BAXTER
Q: In which English Country did the Battle of Flodden Field take place? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: What is the hunting dog usually a cross between a collie and a greyhound called? A: LURCHER
Q: At which location in London is the Mermaid Theatre? A: PUDDLE DOCK
Q: In which book of the bible is the collapse of the walls of Jericho told? A: JOSHUA
Q: In which book of the bible is the story of Goliath told? A: SAMUEL
Q: The Battle of Sedgemoor took place in which English County? A: SOMERSET
Q: What kind of creature was the extinct quagga? A: (Wild) HORSE
Q: Hairdresser Raymond who died in 1992 owned two Grand National winners, Ayala and which other? A: RAG TRADE
Q: Michael Winner writes a column called Winners Dinners for which Sunday newspaper? A: SUNDAY TIMES
Q: How many US Presidents were assassinated during the reign of Queen Victoria? A: 2
Q: "Which ""Knight"" narrates the children's TV series ""In the Night Gardens""?" A: SIR DEREK JACOBI
Q: """Finding My Voice"" is a recent autobiography by whom?" A: RUSSELL WATSON
Q: "How many engines were there on Howard Hughes ""Spruce Goose""?" A: 8
Q: Which bridge in Scotland replaced the much loved ferry at the Kyle of Lochalsh? A: SKYE
Q: Who was the first US President to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: Who wrote the recent best seller Devil May Care? A: SEBASTIAN FAULKS
Q: Which famous aircraft producer designed the synchronized machine gun to fire through propeller blades? A: FOKKER
Q: What is the name of the first child born to a ruling British Monarch last century? A: (PRINCE) ANDREW
Q: Who is the Secretary of State for Children Schools and Families? A: ED BALLS
Q: The teacher Miss Hooley and P.C. Plum appear in which children's TV series? A: BALAMORY
Q: What was the name of the 1970 number one hit record by Matthews Southern Comfort which was their only hit? A: WOODSTOCK
Q: Which comic book hero made his debut in issue 27 of Detective in 1939? A: BATMAN
Q: The Russian Port of Vladivostok stands on which sea? A: SEA OF JAPAN
Q: "Who in the 1960's had a number 1 hit with ""Come Outside""?" A: MIKE SARNE
Q: Which sport uses the terms serve, dig and spike? A: VOLLEYBALL
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister at the time of the Suez Crisis? A: ANTHONY EDEN
Q: Who was British Prime Minister at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: What was the name of Mr Pickwick's servant? A: SAM WELLER
Q: At which Olympics, city or year, did Eddie the Eagle take part? A: CALGARY
Q: "From which musical does the song ""How to Handle a Woman"" come from?" A: CAMELOT
Q: The boundary between Suffolk and Cambridgeshire runs through which racecourse? A: NEWMARKET
Q: Which American comic book hero was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko and first appeared in Marvel Comics in 1962? A: SPIDERMAN
Q: What was Khruschev's first name? A: NIKITA
Q: Who had a number 2 hit in the 60's with Speedy Gonzales? A: PAT BOONE
Q: What was the name of the actor who played Jack Sugden in Emmerdale and who died in July 2008? A: CLIVE HORNBY
Q: The European Football Championships in 2012 will be hosted again by two countries - name either. A: POLAND/UKRAINE
Q: From whom did Castro seize power in 1959? A: FULGENCIO BATISTA
Q: "Whose motto is ""Service Above Self ""?" A: ROTARY INTERNATIONAL
Q: Who created the Detective Dangerous Davies as played on television by Peter Davison? A: LESLIE THOMAS
Q: What was the name of the BBC Correspondent who died in July 2008 aged 85? A: CHARLES WHEELER
Q: Who seized power from King Idris in a military coup in 1969? A: GADDAFFI
Q: Sheriff John T Chance appears in which classic Western? A: RIO BRAVO
Q: Who invented the safety pin? A: WALTER HUNT
Q: The Venus de Milo is a statue of which Greek goddess? A: APHRODITE
Q: Which Swiss town is at the foot of the Matterhorn? A: ZERMATT
Q: In which US city is MacArthur Park? A: LOS ANGELES
Q: Lord Lucan and John Stonehouse disappeared in the same year, which? A: 1974
Q: Who played Stephen Ward in the film Scandal? A: JOHN HURT
Q: In which country are the Appenines? A: ITALY
Q: How many players in a baseball team? A: 9
Q: Kyudo is a Japanese form of which field sport? A: ARCHERY
Q: Which is the only London Borough to include land on both sides of the River Thames? A: RICHMOND
Q: Lorena. Ochoa, the world's number one woman golfer, is from which country? A: MEXICO
Q: Which bands two albums to date are 'Employment' and 'Yours Truly, Angry Mob'? A: KAISER CHIEFS
Q: What is the family name of the Royal House of Sweden? A: BERNADOTTE
Q: Who was Emperor of Rome when Boudicca, queen of the Iceni, led her famous revolt? A: NERO
Q: In which year were British women granted full voting rights? A: 1928
Q: There are three snakes native to Britain, the adder, the grass snake and which other? A: THE SMOOTH SNAKE
Q: "Which Romantic artist painted ""Liberty Leading the People""?" A: EUGENE DELACROIX
Q: Elaine Bookbinder is the real name of which Mancunian singer? A: ELKIE BROOKS
Q: Phillips Idowu and Nathan Douglas represent Great Britain in which athletics discipline? A: THE TRIPLE JUMP
Q: "The wedding processional known as ""Here Comes the Bride"" is by which famous composer?" A: RICHARD WAGNER
Q: As what is the game of 'petanque' better known? A: BOULES
Q: On which Scottish golf course was the first British Open played in 1861? A: PRESTWICK
Q: Who wrote the Dream of Gerontius which Elgar later set to music? A: CARDINAL NEWMAN
Q: There are three kingdoms in Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland are two. Which is the third? A: MOROCCO
Q: Anthony Kiedis is the lead singer of which US alternative rock band? A: RED HOT CHILLI PEPPERS
Q: Who preceded Robert the Bruce as King of Scotland? A: JOHN BALLIOL
Q: What is the name of the Roman Road which runs from London to York via Lincoln? A: ERMINE STREET
Q: The imp is the symbol of which English city? A: LINCOLN
Q: How old was Mozart when he died? (a year either way) A: 35
Q: In which country does the River Danube enter the Black Sea? A: ROMANIA
Q: Which rank in the Royal Navy is the equivalent of an army brigadier? A: COMMODORE
Q: b The drunken midwife Sarah Gamp appears in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT
Q: a By what name is the fruit carambola better known? A: THE STAR FRUIT
Q: "Which detective featured in the film ""The Maltese Falcon""?" A: SAM SPADE
Q: Who succeeded Jon Pertwee as Dr Who? A: TOM BAKER
Q: Which bright orange star is the 'eye' of Taurus the Bull? A: ALDEBARAN
Q: In musical notation what is the meaning of the term Da Capo (or DC)? A: REPEAT FROM THE BEGINNING
Q: In Norse mythology who killed Baldur with a spear made from mistletoe? A: LOKI
Q: What name is given to a straight line joining any two points on a curve') A: CHORD
Q: Which large bird of prey, fairly common in Wales, and now becoming more widespread elsewhere, has the Latin name 'milvus milvus? A: THE RED KITE
Q: A hectare is 10,000 square metres; approximately how many acres does it represent (to the nearest half acre)? A: 2.5 ACRES
Q: In which small Middle Eastern Country were women only granted the right to vote in 2006? A: KUWAIT
Q: The artist Matisse was a member of which school of painting? A: FAUVISM
Q: What series of children's books is written by Eoin Colfer? A: THE 'ARTEMIS FOWL' BOOKS
Q: Which British women achieved gold in the 400 metres at the 2007 World Athletics Championships? A: CHRISTINE OHURUOGU
Q: In which British cathedral is the feature known as the 'Angels Choir'? A: LINCOLN
Q: Mendelssohn's 'Wedding March' was. originally written as incidental music for which Shakespeare play in 1842? A: NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: a What is the English name for the constellation Sagittarius? A: THE ARCHER
Q: Who composed the title music for Dr Who? A: RON GRAINER
Q: In music what name is given to a note which is half the length of a crochet? A: QUAVER
Q: "Who was known as ""The Father of Geometry""?" A: EUCLID
Q: To which family of birds does the jay belong? A: CROW
Q: The people of which English county are known as Moonrakers? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Which American State is known as the 'Garden State'? A: NEW JERSEY
Q: Which rank in the Army equates to a Vice-Admiral in the Royal Navy? A: LIEUTENANT-GENERAL
Q: Who is the patron saint of authors, journalists and deafness? A: ST FRANCIS DE SALES
Q: Gilian Anderson starred as Lady Dedlock in the 2005 BBC adaptation of which story by Charles Dickens? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: The Kiwi fruit is native to which Asian country? A: CHINA
Q: Who writes the books featuring detectives Dalziel and Pascoe? A: REGINALD HILL
Q: Who is the oldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II? A: PETER PHILLIPS
Q: Who wrote the novels 'Resurrection Men' and 'Fleshmarket Close'? A: IAN RANKIN
Q: What was the surname of the poet Dante, author of the Divine Comedy? A: ALIGHIERI
Q: Which Football League team is nicknamed 'The Hornets'? A: WATFORD
Q: What did the British Museum purchase for £35,000 in 1816 from the aristocrat Thomas Bruce? A: The Elgin Marbles
Q: For which cricket county does former England test batsman Mark Ramprakash play? A: Surrey
Q: Which North African dish consists of crushed semolina, which can be steamed and served with vegetables, chicken or fish? A: Couscous
Q: Grand-mal and petit-mal are terms used in connection with which medical condition? A: Epilepsy
Q: The adjective cervine relates to which animals? A: Deer
Q: """Christ in the House of his Parents"" is one of the best known paintings of which artist?" A: Sir John Everett Millais
Q: What is the rank of a British Army officer who wears a crown and two pips on his epaulettes? A: Colonel
Q: Who was the daughter of Zeus and Hera, cupbearer to the gods? A: Hebe
Q: What name is given to the hymn of praise by Mary, the Mother of Jesus, found in Luke's gospel? A: Magnificat
Q: During which monarch's reign did the Act of Union with Scotland take place? A: Queen Anne
Q: Which horse won the 2008 Aintree Grand National? A: Comply Or Die
Q: What is the SI unit of energy? A: Joule
Q: Which car company makes a model called the Verso? A: Toyota
Q: Who composed the opera 'Albert Herring' in 1947? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: In which town or city is the Fitzwilliam Museum? A: Cambridge
Q: Which British monarch was incarcerated in Pontefract Castle where he died of starvation in January 1400? A: Richard II
Q: Who sang the theme tune to the James Bond film 'The Spy Who Loved Me' in 1977? A: Carly Simon
Q: Which element, atomic number 47, has the highest electrical thermal conductivity of any metal? A: Silver
Q: In which constellation is the star Rigel? A: Orion
Q: What is the highest point in the Peak District? A: Kinder Scout
Q: What was the name of the Cyclops blinded by Odysseus? A: Polyphemus
Q: Which musical features the son's 'I'd Do Anything' and 'Be Back Soon'? A: Oliver
Q: Synovial fluid is a lubricant for which parts of the body? A: Joints
Q: What name is given to a male guinea pig? A: Boar
Q: For which cricket county does England test cricketer Ian Bell play? A: Warwickshire
Q: In the US sitcom 'Frasier' what was Frasier's surname? A: Crane
Q: Who composed the musical work 'Harold In Italy' in 1834? A: Berlioz
Q: Which strait separates Greenland from Canada? A: Davis Strait
Q: Which musical features the songs 'Brush Up Your Shakespeare' and 'From This Moment On'? A: Kiss Me Kate
Q: Which British monarch was murdered at Berkeley Castle in September 1327? A: Edward II
Q: Who sang the theme tune to the James Bond film 'Goldeneye'? A: Tina Turner
Q: Which poisonous element can be either grey, yellow or black and combines with sulphur as realgar? A: Arsenic
Q: "What name meaning ""to hide away"" is given to the books that provide an appendix to the Old Testament in some versions of the Bible?" A: Apocrypha
Q: Which group recorded the albums 'Gaze' and 'Painting It Red' and 'Blue is the colour'? A: Beautiful South
Q: The title character of which British TV detective series has not put in an appearance for nearly 14 years? A: Taggart
Q: The atmosphere of the planet Mars consists almost entirely of which gas? A: Carbon Dioxide
Q: Who wrote the novel 'The Prodigal Daughter' in 1982? A: Jeffery Archer
Q: In Greek mythology who was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter who became the wife of Hades and Queen of the Underworld? A: Persephone
Q: Who won the 2007 Best Actor Oscar for his role in the film 'The Last King Of Scotland'? A: Forest Whitaker
Q: Which horse ridden by Frankie Dettori won the 2007 Epsom Derby? A: Authorized
Q: What is the highest mountain on the Isle of Man? A: Snaefell
Q: Which comedian's real name is Michael Pennington? A: Johnny Vegas
Q: Who composed the opera 'The Rake's Progress' in 1951? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Libreville is the capital of which West African country? A: Gabon
Q: What name is given to the larvae of the cranefly? A: Leatherjacket
Q: In which year did the Easter Rising, against British rule in Ireland, take place? A: 1916
Q: What term describes ranks in the Royal Navy above that of Captain? A: Flag Officers
Q: Which American President acquired the nickname 'The Gipper'? A: Ronald REAGAN
Q: In a very well-known novel, who owns the house called Manderley? A: MAXIM De WINTER
Q: In WW2, which company made the Halifax bomber? A: HANDLEY PAGE
Q: Sir Joseph Bazalgette contributed to the better health of Londoners by building what? A: The SEWER SYSTEM
Q: What acid is found in rhubarb leaves? A: OXALIC ACID
Q: Who wrote the music for the 1948 film 'Scott of the Antarctic'? A: Ralph VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: Which classical author became Mrs Arthur Nicholls? A: CHARLOTTE BRONTE
Q: Who made a series of television programmes from River Cottage? A: HUGH FEARNLEY WHITTINGSTALL
Q: A sepoy was a soldier from which country? A: INDIA
Q: On a musical score, what does 'da capo' mean? A: FROM THE BEGINNING
Q: In Jules Veme's 'Around the World in 80 Days', Phileas Fogg starts and finishes his journey at which London club? A: The REFORM Club
Q: Which literary work, completed in 1353, contains the tales of ten travellers escaping from the plague in Florence? A: DECAMERON
Q: Which 'Bond girl' was married to a Beatle? Give either the name of the actress or the name of the character. A: BARBARA BACH
Q: In a Dickens novel, who lived at Satis House? A: MISS HAVISHAM
Q: Who wrote the medieval poem 'Piers Plowman'? A: WILLIAM LANGLAND
Q: Which actor appeared in the first and the last episodes of 'Grange Hill'? A: TODD CARTY
Q: Which TV cook is married to presenter Fern Britton? A: PHIL VICKERY
Q: Who attempted to assassinate Gerald Ford in 1975? A: (Lynette 'SQUEAKY') FROMME
Q: Who designed the Avro Vulcan Bomber? A: ROY CHADWICK
Q: Who wrote the music for the films 'Dancing with Wolves' and 'Out of Africa'? A: JOHN BARRY
Q: Who was the father of the Virgin Mary? A: Saint JOACHIM
Q: Which famous London club was founded by Italian Francesco Bianco? A: WHITE'S
Q: Architect Frank Matcham (1854-1920) specialized in designing which kind of building? A: THEATRES
Q: In science, what is the name given to a substance with characteristic reactions used as a chemical test? A: REAGENT
Q: What name was given to the proletariat of the French Revolution? A: SANS CULOTTES
Q: Who died on January 5th 1922 whilst on his fourth Antarctic expedition? A: Sir ERNEST SHACKLETON
Q: Of what institution was Sir John Houblon the first governor in 1694? A: BANK of ENGLAND
Q: Since 1066, who was the oldest English monarch to ascend the throne? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: Which group had a hit in the 1960's with 'Keep on running'? A: SPENCER DAVIS GROUP
Q: Which number when squared equals half of it cube? A: TWO
Q: Britain's first motor bus service started in 1897, in which town or city? A: BRADFORD
Q: Ernest Shepard was the original illustrator of which children's stories? A: WINNIE the POOH
Q: In the 2008 film 'W, directed by Oliver Stone, who played George W. Bush? A: JOSH BROLIN
Q: Which is the only fabric in the world, the manufacture of which is governed by an Act of Parliament - specified in a 1993 Act? A: HARRIS TWEED
Q: In 1944, in which New Hampshire town was an agreement drawn up to establish the IMF and World Bank? A: BRETTON WOODS
Q: Aravind Adiga won the Man Booker prize for 2008 - what was the title of the book? A: The WHITE TIGER
Q: Which organisation has the motto 'Mantiens le droit', which is included in its coat of arms? A: ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE
Q: Who, on 17m October 2008, became the first batsman to score 12,000 runs in Test cricket? A: SACHIN TENDULKAR
Q: Who shared the 1901 Nobel Peace Prize (the first) with Frederic Passy, for his work which inspired the creation of the Red Cross and the Geneva Convention? A: HENRI DUNANT
Q: In 1894, Marks and Spencer opened their first 'Penny Bazaar', in which town or city? A: MANCHESTER
Q: In mathematics, what is the correct term for the answer to a multiplication calculation? A: PRODUCT
Q: Harmsen Van der Beek is the original illustrator of which books by Enid Blyton? A: NODDY
Q: Australian Douglas Mawson, 1882-1958, was famous for exploration on which continent? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: Which British bank issued the first credit card in 1966? A: BARCLAYS
Q: Which cricketer, who retired from first class cricket in 2008, scored 135 centuries although he had limited success at Test level? A: GRAHAM HICK
Q: Which group had a hit in the 1970's with 'Love Grows Like My Rosemary Grows'? A: EDISON LIGHTHOUSE
Q: Bavarian lederhosen are traditionally made from the hide of which animal? A: DEER
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the legendary King of Troy? A: PRIAM
Q: Who was the grandfather of Queen Victoria? A: GEORGE III
Q: Who directed the 2008 film 'Burn after Reading'? A: COEN BROTHERS
Q: Traditional wattle hurdles were made from the wood of which tree? A: HAZEL
Q: Mount Marmolada is the highest peak in which European mountain range? A: DOLOMITES
Q: Which National Trust property in Cheshire includes a mansion and a Tudor hall that was once owned by the Egerton family? A: TATTON PARK
Q: Who founded the Ballet Russe? A: SERGEI DIAGHILEV
Q: Who presented the TV show 'The Human Body'? A: ROBERT WINSTON
Q: In which country did Victoria Adams marry David Beckham? A: IRELAND
Q: What is sciophobia a fear of? A: SHADOWS
Q: Who was the first woman in Britain granted a professional boxing licence? A: JANE COUCH
Q: On which island of the Philippines is Manila? A: LUZON
Q: What is tocophobia a fear of? A: CHILDBIRTH
Q: How is the plant Lactuca Sativa better known? A: LETTUCE
Q: Who lost most Ladies Singles Finals at Wimbledon in the 1980's? A: CHRIS EVERT
Q: Which famous poet wrote the line 'we are the hollow men'? A: T. S. ELIOT
Q: Which band had a top ten in 1996 with Cosmic Girl? A: JAMIROQUAI
Q: In which Shakespeare play do we find Touchstone, a jester? A: AS YOU LIKE IT
Q: In which decade of the 20th Century were the Oscars instigated? A: 1920s
Q: Which author created the fictional detective C Auguste Dupin? A: EDGAR ALLEN POE
Q: Who assassinated the Duke of Buckingham in 1628? A: JOHN FELTON
Q: Who defeated Martina Navratilova in her last Wimbledon Singles Final? A: CONCHITA MARTINEZ
Q: John Crome (1768-1821) founded which School of Painting? A: NORWICH SCHOOL
Q: Which African country takes its name from the Shona for 'house of stone'? A: ZIMBABWE
Q: 'Live Forever' was the first UK top ten single for which band? A: OASIS
Q: King Alexander I, assassinated in Marseilles in 1934, was king of which country? A: YUGOSLAVIA
Q: Air fight pioneer Amy Johnson vanished over which river? A: THAMES
Q: Whish 1996 multi Oscar winning film was based on a novel by Michael Ondaatje? A: THE ENGLISH PATIENT
Q: Which English city has a Railway Station called Forster Square? A: BRADFORD
Q: Which element discovered in 1782 has the symbol Te? A: TELLURIUM
Q: Who wrote the opera Wozzeck in 1922? A: ALBAN BERG
Q: Who directed the film Picnic at flanging Rock? A: PETER WEIR
Q: What was the first name of notorious murderer Doctor Crippen? A: HAWLEY
Q: Kummel is a Russian liqueur extracted from what? A: CARAWAY SEEDS
Q: Which monarch was threatened by the Rye House Plot? A: CHARLES II
Q: Alex Waugh, brother of Evelyn, wrote a first novel about life at a public school, what was it? A: THE LOOM OF YOUTH
Q: On which island is Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas? A: NEW PROVIDENCE
Q: Which European city was called Vindobona by the Romans? A: VIENNA
Q: Which Canadian/American novelist won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1976? A: SAUL BELLOW
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar for the film 'Out of Africa'? A: SYDNEY POLLACK
Q: Which vitamin is also called tocopherol? A: VITAMIN E
Q: Who was the second cricketer to score 36 runs off an over in first class cricket? A: RAVI SHASTRI
Q: Who opened his first restaurant 'Harvey's' in 1987? A: MARCO PIERRE WHITE
Q: Which British monarch produced the most legitimate children? A: EDWARD I
Q: Which element discovered in 1879 has the symbol Tm? A: THULIUM
Q: What was Spike Milligan's Christian name? A: TERENCE
Q: What poet wrote this epitaph for his own grave 'Cast a cold eye, on life, on death. Horseman pass by'? A: W B YEATS
Q: Who presented the first ever edition of ITV's News at Ten? A: ALASTAIR BURNET
Q: Which country has a wine growing area called O'Higgins? A: CHILE
Q: Which modern country was called Dacia by the Romans? A: ROMANIA
Q: What is the collective noun for lapwings? A: A DECEIT
Q: Where is Rick Stein's famous seafood restaurant? A: PADSTOW
Q: Which South African writer won the Novel Prize for Literature in 1991? A: NADINE GORDIMER
Q: In which African country is the deep water port of Lobito? A: ANGOLA
Q: An urodele is another name for which reptile? A: SALAMANDER
Q: Who sang the theme song for the Bond film 'Tomorrow Never Dies'? A: Sheryl Crow
Q: Which was the first song played on BBC Radio One? A: Flowers in the Rain
Q: What title is earned by a Moslem who makes a pilgrimage to Mecca? A: Hajj
Q: Rothesay is the principal town of which island? A: Bute
Q: What name was given to the regime in France from July 1940 to August 1944? A: Vichy
Q: Which dish is a confection of sugar, egg yolks and Marsala wine? A: Zabaglione
Q: Sir Titus Salt, the first manufacturer of alpaca fabrics in this country, built a model village to house his employees, what name did he give to it? A: Saltaire
Q: Kerry McCarthy, Doug Naysmith, Dawn Primarolo and Stephen Williams are MPs representing constituencies in which city? A: Bristol
Q: On which river does Hamburg stand? A: Elbe
Q: Who wrote 'Crime and Punishment' and 'The Brothers Karamazov'? A: Dostoyevsky
Q: Cotopaxi in Ecuador and Paricutin in Mexico are examples of which geographical feature? A: Volcano
Q: Of what is brontophobia the fear? A: Thunder
Q: Aurora was the Roman goddess of the dawn, who was her Greek counterpart? A: Eos
Q: Who wrote 'She' and 'King Solomon's Mines'? A: H Rider Haggard
Q: At which port do the rivers Rhine and Maas reach the sea? A: Rotterdam
Q: Jenny Willott, Julie Morgan, Alun Michael and Kevin Brennan are MPs representing constituencies in which city? A: Cardiff
Q: Which dish is a combination of pancakes re-heated in a sauce of sugar, oranges and Curacao or Grand Marnier? A: Crepe Suzette
Q: Which is the principal town on the Isle of Skye? A: Portree
Q: What title is earned by a Moslem who learns the entire Koran? A: Hafiz
Q: What is the largest number on a standard backgammon doubling dice? A: 64
Q: What was the title of the aptly named first song to be played on MTV in Britain? A: Video Killed the Radio Star
Q: The theme to which Bond film was sung by A-Ha? A: Living Daylights
Q: Which best-selling author wrote the novel 'A Painted House'? A: John Grisham
Q: Which radio station became BBC Radio Two in 1967? A: Light Programme
Q: Who painted 'The Bathers' and 'Umbrellas'? A: Renoir
Q: In the context of law and order, for what does the C stand in the acronym ACPO? A: (Association of) Chief
Q: Which building stands at 350, Fifth Avenue, New York? A: Empire State
Q: To which family of fish does the minnow belong? A: Carp
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Sir Lancelot Gobbo appear? A: Merchant of Venice
Q: Who is MP for Redditch? A: Jacqui Smith
Q: Who was the first Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury, consecrated in 1533 during the reign of Henry 8th? A: Thomas Cranmer
Q: In rhyming slang what is 'bangers and mash'? A: Cash
Q: Name the British swimmer who took part in his fifth Olympic Games in Beijing? A: Mark Foster
Q: The process of increasing the abundance of a particular isotope in a mixture of isotopes is known by what name? A: Enrichment
Q: Who had hit records with The Move, ELO and Wizzard? A: Roy Wood
Q: Knightsbridge and Hyde Park Corner are stations on which London Underground line? A: Piccadilly
Q: Smithsonite is a carbonate of zinc, by what name is it commonly known? A: Calamine
Q: Vulcanisation involves heating rubber latex with which yellow, very brittle, fusible and inflammable non-metallic element? A: Sulphur
Q: Marble Arch and St Paul's are stations on which London Underground line? A: Central
Q: Name the British equestrian who took part in her fifth Olympic Games in Beijing? A: Mary King
Q: Which religion believes in the Four Noble Truths? A: Buddhism
Q: In rhyming slang what is a 'Tommy Trinder'? A: Window
Q: Admiral Togo was a commander at which major battle of 1905? A: Tsushima
Q: Who is the clown in Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night'? A: Feste
Q: Which small fish of the herring family is prized for its flavor and used in sauces and pizza toppings? A: Anchovy
Q: Which radio station became BBC Radio Four in 1967? A: The Home Service
Q: The world's first iron bridge was completed in 1781 at Coalbrookdale, which river does it span? A: Severn
Q: Vladimir Ashkanazy plays which musical instrument? A: PIANO
Q: What was founded by the Rev. William and Catherine Booth in 1878? A: SALVATION ARMY
Q: What is/was a seller of Papal indulgences called? A: A PARDONER
Q: By what name was the singer Ronnie Wycherley better known? A: BILLY FURY
Q: "Which Italian wrote the opera ""La Boheme""?" A: PUCCINI
Q: "Who wrote the book ""The Brothers Karamazov""?" A: DOSTOYEVSKY
Q: By what name was singer Terence Nelhams better known? A: ADAM FAITH
Q: What did William Addis invent whilst in Newgate Prison? A: THE TOOTHBRUSH
Q: In mythology, which winged horse did Bellerophon ride? A: PEGASUS
Q: Who was the last prisoner in Spandau Jail, Berlin? A: RUDOLPH HESS
Q: In children's literature, which car did Commander Caractacus Potts drive? A: CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG
Q: "What was the first name of the character ""Rigsby"" in the TV comedy ""Rising Damp""?" A: RUPERT
Q: "Who designed the statue ""Angel of the North"" which stands alongside the M1 motorway?" A: ANTHONY GORMLEY
Q: What was the first name of the boxer Sonny Liston? A: CHARLES
Q: "Who wrote the 1930's books ""Tropic of Cancer"" and ""Tropic of Capricorn""?" A: HENRY MILLER
Q: "In which European city is the criminal society called the ""Camorra"" based?" A: NAPLES
Q: "What is the symbol/logo of the financial institution ""Legal and General""?" A: AN UMBRELLA
Q: "Who wrote the poems ""The Soldier"" and ""The Old Vicarage""?" A: RUPERT BROOKE
Q: "Who said ""In the Country of the Blind The One-eyed Man is King?" A: H G WELLS
Q: On a dartboard which number is between 18 and 13? A: 4
Q: Paul Tortlellier and Mistislav Rostropovich are associated with which musical instrument? A: THE CELLO
Q: "Who played Jim Morrisson in Oliver Stone's film ""The Doors""?" A: VAL KILMER
Q: What is produced in a Bessemer Converter? A: STEEL
Q: What metal is always present in alloys called amalgams? A: MERCURY
Q: "Whose ghost was at the dinner table in ""Macbeth""?" A: BANQUO'S
Q: Who, apart from Geoff Hurst, scored in the 1966 World Cup Final for England? A: MARTIN PETERS
Q: "Which U.S. state known as ""The Mainland State"" or ""The Last Frontier"" has the forget-me-not as its state flower?" A: ALASKA
Q: What, in Buddhist theology, is the highest level of attainment? A: NIRVANA
Q: "Which music legend was the subject of Don McLean's song - ""American Pie""?" A: BUDDY HOLLY
Q: "Who said ""A week in politics is a long time""?" A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: What was the first planet to be discovered with a telescope? A: URANUS
Q: On what date is Burns Night celebrated? A: 25th JANUARY
Q: "Which famous jazz singer was known as ""Lady Day""?" A: BILLIE HOLIDAY
Q: What is the capital city of the American state of Wyoming? A: CHEYENNE
Q: What type of whisky has the same name as a French royal family? A: BOURBON
Q: On which planet are the craters Brahms and Liszt? A: MERCURY
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Mansfield Park""?" A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: Name the year in which Freddie Mercury died, hostage Terry Waite was released and No. 10 Downing Street was mortar bombed? A: 1991
Q: "Which day of the week is traditionally associated with ""Ladies Day"" at Royal Ascot?" A: THURSDAY
Q: What is the only non-fictional country visited by Gulliver in his travels? A: JAPAN
Q: Which British King had the longest reign? A: GEORGE III
Q: What was the first Elvis Presley single to reach number one in the UK? A: ALL SHOOK UP
Q: In computing, how many bytes are there in a kilobyte? A: 1024
Q: In science, what is the S.I unit of energy? A: JOULE
Q: How many chromosomes are there in the female sex cell? A: 23
Q: On which island did the Dodo become extinct in about 1681? A: MAURITIUS
Q: "Which English romantic poet, (1795-1821), wrote the poem, ""The Eve of St Agnes""?" A: JOHN KEATS
Q: Who was the German Ambassador to Britain from 1936-38? A: JOACHIM VON RIBBENTROP
Q: In which country was Adolf Eichmann a resident, when captured by the Israelis in 1960? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which famous actor of his day, played the Hunchback of Notre Dame in the 1923 silent film? A: LON CHANEY
Q: Which famous Englishman was born at Burnamthorpe in Norfolk in 1758? A: LORD HORATIO NELSON
Q: "What is the main ingredient in the Indian drink, ""lassi""?" A: YOGHURT
Q: Kerstin Hakansson, winner of the first Miss World contest, came from which country? A: SWEDEN
Q: Russell is the family name of which English Duke? A: DUKE OF BEDFORD
Q: Name the American winner of the 1973 Miss World contest, whose reign lasted just 104 days, before she was sacked, following a series of high profile liaisons with various famous men of the day. A: MARJORIE WALLACE
Q: John Jarndyce and Honoria, Lady Dedlock are major characters in which Dickens novel? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: "Who played Esmeralda, to Charles Laughton's Quasimodo, in the 1939 version of the film, ""The Hunchback of Notre Dame""?" A: MAUREEN O'HARA
Q: "Which TV programme always ended with the words, ""Head 'em up, Move 'em out""?" A: RAWHIDE
Q: Who was the US Ambassador to Britain from 1938-1940? A: JOSEPH KENNEDY
Q: "Which English poet, (1770-1850), wrote, ""Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey?" A: WILLIAM WORDSWORTH
Q: The Guardian cartoonist, Steve Bell, always portrayed which politician with his Y-fronts outside his trousers? A: JOHN MAJOR
Q: Which American Formula One motor racing driver, heir to part of the vast family fortune made in the cosmetics industry, won the British Grand Prix in 1973, but was killed during the South African Grand Prix, in 1974? A: PETER REVSON
Q: The White Death was an alternative name for which once common disease? A: TUBERCULOSIS.
Q: A person who writes the music for an opera is called a composer. What name is given to the person who writes the words? A: A LIBRETTIST
Q: "Which famous historical event was featured in the novel, ""Lorna Doone""?" A: THE MONMOUTH REBELLION
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""Absolutely Fabulous"", which actress played the part of Edina's dim-witted assistant, ""Bubble""?" A: JANE HORROCKS
Q: What is the name of the Australian actor/comedian who created the character Dame Edna Everage? A: BARRY HUMPHRIES
Q: Which British city was once said to be famous for Jam, Jute and Journalism? A: DUNDEE
Q: The author, George Orwell was shot in the throat whilst fighting in which war? A: SPANISH CIVIL WAR
Q: Which heavyweight boxing World Champion was born in Brockton Massachusetts in 1923, and died in a plane crash in 1969? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: "Which singer once said of herself, ""It takes a lot of money to look as cheap as this""?" A: DOLLY PARTON
Q: Although losing all three fights, which British boxer, between 1973 and 1975, went the distance with Joe Frazier and twice with Muhammed Ali? A: JOE BUGNER
Q: Which British Trade Union leader fought with the International Brigade in the Spanish Civil War, and was badly wounded at the Battle of Ebro in 1938? A: JACK JONES
Q: In which Yorkshire town was the opera singer Lesley Garrett born in 1955? A: DONCASTER
Q: What is the name of the drunken, uncouth character, created by Barry Humphries, who is the Australian cultural attaché and minister for the arts? A: SIR LES PATTERSON
Q: "Which actress played the part of Brenda Furlong in the TV comedy series, ""Dinner Ladies""? The same actress also wrote and produced the series." A: VICTORIA WOOD
Q: Which Dickens novel features the Gordon anti Catholic riots in London in 1780? A: BARNABY RUDGE
Q: What name is given to the members of the religious denomination, founded in the 17th century, who are also known as The Society of Friends? A: QUAKERS
Q: "Which disease, the victims of which are nearly always men, (females are asymptomatic carriers of the disorder), is sometimes known as ""The Royal Disease""?" A: HAEMOPHILIA
Q: In which country was the British Formula One racing driver Jim Clark killed in 1967? A: GERMANY
Q: The West Indian island of Hispaniola consists of The Dominican Republic and which other country? A: HAITI
Q: Which common spring flower has the Latin name Galanthus? A: SNOWDROP
Q: Which politician was portrayed as a bulldog by cartoonist Steve Bell? A: JOHN PRESCOTT
Q: Made in 1961, what was the last film of both Marilyn Monroe and Clark Gable? A: THE MISFITS
Q: Which famous American jazz singer was born Eleanora Fagan in Baltimore in 1915? A: BILLIE HOLIDAY
Q: Where are Trinity, Michaelmas and Hilary used as divisions of time? A: Oxford
Q: Who was the Roman god of sleep? A: Somnus
Q: The star Regulus is in which constellation? A: Leo
Q: The Pleiades are in which constellation? A: Taurus
Q: Who wrote the play 'The Cherry Orchard'? A: Anton Chekhov
Q: Who was the wife of Henry II? A: Eleanor of Aquitaine
Q: Where in the UK are the towns of Sandown and Shanklin? A: Isle of Wight
Q: In which county is Taunton? A: Somerset
Q: In which city is the Ferens Art Gallery? A: Hull
Q: In which city is the Mappin Art Gallery? A: Sheffield
Q: Which football team is nicknamed the Seagulls? A: Brighton and Hove Albion
Q: Which sport is played for the Corbillon Cup? A: Table Tennis
Q: Who composed the opera Aida? A: Verdi
Q: What was the surname of Malcolm X? A: Little
Q: What is the chemical symbol for arsenic? A: As
Q: What was the name of the first space shuttle to travel in space? A: Columbia
Q: What is the SI unit of inductance? A: The Henry
Q: Who formulated the laws of electromagnetism? A: Faraday
Q: Which fictional character's first name was Endeavour? A: Inspector Morse
Q: Who composed the Emperor Concerto? A: Beethoven
Q: Who composed the Clock Symphony? A: Haydn
Q: Which children's book was subtitled There and Back Again? A: The Hobbit
Q: What was the nickname of gangster George Nelson? A: Babyface
Q: What is the currency of China? A: Yuan
Q: What subject was added as a Nobel Prize in 1969? A: Economics
Q: Which philosopher founded the Stoics? A: Zeno
Q: Which philosopher founded the Cynics? A: Antisthenes
Q: Who killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914? A: Gavrillo Princip
Q: In which city is the world's longest street? A: Los Angeles
Q: What is the opposite of zenith? A: Nadir
Q: What is the opposite of perihelion? A: Aphelion
Q: Which cathedral has the tallest spire in England? A: Salisbury
Q: What does the term avast mean? A: Stop
Q: In which year was the Battle of Trafalgar? A: 1805
Q: In which year was the Battle of Agincourt? A: 1415
Q: At which racecourse is the St Leger run? A: Doncaster
Q: Which salad vegetable is one of the main ingredients of the Greek sauce, Tzatziki? A: CUCUMBER
Q: "Who sang the theme song for the 1974 Bond film, ""The Man with the Golden Gun""?" A: LULU
Q: Which army officer, later a Confederate General led the attack, which captured John Brown and his band of rebels at Harpers Ferry in 1859? A: ROBERT E LEE
Q: "The film, ""Bridget Jones's Diary"" was based on the novel by which English authoress?" A: HELEN FIELDING
Q: Which Lancashire wicketkeeper scored a century in only his 4th first class match in 1987? A: WARREN HEGG
Q: Nollywood is the colloquial name given to the film industry of which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: Who is currently the chief cashier at the Bank of England? A: ANDREW BAILEY
Q: "Which British comedian used the catchphrase, ""Can you hear me mother""?" A: SANDY POWELL
Q: At which location did Captain Matthew Webb die in 1883? A: NIAGARA FALLS
Q: Which airline, founded as Jersey European Airways in 1979, has its largest base at Southampton Airport? A: FLYBE
Q: "The TV detective series, ""Cold Case"" deals with unsolved murders in which American city?" A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: "Who had a U.K. hit record in 1965, with his tune, ""A Walk in the Black Forest""?" A: HORST JANKOWSKI
Q: The first stations on the three railway lines out of which Scottish city are Beauly, Carrbridge and Nairn? A: INVERNESS
Q: King Gama and King Hildebrand are monarchs in which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: PRINCESS IDA
Q: The first stations on the four railway lines out of which city are Saxilby, Hykeham, Metheringham and Market Rasen? A: LINCOLN
Q: Who is the head of the CSI team, in the TV series of that name? The series is set in Las Vegas, and the character played by American actor, William Petersen. A: GIL GRISSOM
Q: In which Commonwealth country is the low cost airline, Virgin Blue based? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In which Canadian province is the city of Niagara Falls? A: ONTARIO
Q: "In which American TV series did the main character often use the phrase, ""I love it when a plan comes together""?" A: THE A TEAM
Q: Which colloquial name is given to the Pakistani film industry, after the city where it is based? A: LOLLYWOOD
Q: """The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole"", was written by which English authoress?" A: SUE TOWNSEND
Q: What was the name of the general, and political leader, who led the Mexican forces at the Battle of the Alamo in 1836? A: ANTONIO SANTA ANNA
Q: Which Ivy League university is situated in the city of Ithaca, in New York state? A: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
Q: "Name the actress, who played the part of Nurse Chappel in the original TV series, ""Star Trek"", and married the creator Gene Roddenberry in 1969." A: MAJEL BARRETT
Q: "The Carly Simon song, ""Nobody Does It Better"", was the theme song for which 1977 Bond film?" A: THE SPY WHO LOVED ME
Q: When served with an alcoholic drink, what is the Turkish word for appetisers or small dishes, equivalent to the Spanish word Tapas? A: MEZE
Q: Whom did Bernard Montgomery replace as head of the Eighth Army in North Africa in 1942? A: CLAUDE AUCHINLECK
Q: What name is given to the large cask which holds 54 imperial gallons of beer? A: A HOGSHEAD
Q: "Which Irish sportsman is the subject of the 2008 book, ""In BOD we trust""?" A: BRIAN O'DRISCOLL
Q: Elected to office in November 2008, who is currently the Prime Minister of New Zealand? A: JOHN KEY
Q: Standing on the shores of Loch Linnhe, which Scottish town lies at the southern end of the Great Glen? A: FORT WILLIAM
Q: "In the 1995, Wallace and Gromit film, ""A Close Shave"", what is the name of Wendoline's robot dog?" A: PRESTON
Q: The New Hebrides Condominium changed its name to which present title when it became independent in 1980? A: VANUATU
Q: In which position does England Rugby Union international Lee Mears play? A: HOOKER
Q: What is the family name of the Duke of Northumberland, who resides in Alnwick Castle? A: PERCY
Q: At which North West University is the Robert Powell theatre, in the city of his birth? A: SALFORD
Q: "Paula Dobriansky, the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, coined the phrase ""Cedar Revolution"" to describe events in 2005 in which country?" A: LEBANON
Q: "In which soap opera did Summer Strallen appear, before playing Maria in ""The Sound of Music"" in the West End?" A: HOLLYOAKS
Q: Victor Yushchenko was elected President of which country in 2005, mainly due to a series of protests known as the Orange Revolution? A: UKRAINE
Q: A theatre in Sale, Greater Manchester, his birthplace, is named after which Robert, a two- time Oscar winning screenwriter? A: ROBERT BOLT
Q: Which members of the aristocracy reside at Arundel Castle in Sussex? A: DUKE OF NORFOLK
Q: The Pacific Islands nation of Tuvalu was known by which name until becoming independent in 1974? A: THE ELLICE ISLANDS
Q: "What is the name of the bakery, run by Wallace and Gromit in the 2008 film, ""A Matter of Loaf and Death""?" A: TOP BUN
Q: Ben Macdui, at 1309m, is the highest mountain in which Scottish range? A: THE CAIRNGORMS
Q: Which Italian region is the setting for the Inspector Montalban novels by Andrea Camilleri? A: SICILY
Q: "First premiered in 1786, who wrote the music for the opera, ""The Marriage of Figaro""?" A: MOZART
Q: To which political party does Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd belong? A: THE LABOUR PARTY
Q: At which London railway station is there a statue of Sir John Betjeman? A: ST PANCRAS
Q: What name is given to the cask, which holds a quarter of a barrel of beer? A: A FIRKIN
Q: "The W.W.II campaign, known as, ""The Battle of the Bulge"", was fought in which area of Europe?" A: THE ARDENNES
Q: In 2007, Lee Mead won a BBC reality contest to play which role? A: JOSEPH
Q: Which is the most recent country to change its currency to the Euro, doing so in January 2009? A: SLOVAKIA
Q: """If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia"", is the first line of which Shakespeare play?" A: THE WINTER'S TALE
Q: In which country are the archaeological sites of Tikal and Yaxha? A: Guatemala
Q: In which country are the archaeological sites of Sipan and Ollantaytambo? A: Peru
Q: Burins, bifaces and scrapers are ancient artefacts made of what? A: Stone
Q: The prefix 'sarco' refers to which type of animal tissue? A: Flesh
Q: Who was the first signatory of the American declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: Nelson's tomb stands in St Paul's Cathedral but for whom was it originally made although this person never occupied it? A: Cardinal Wolsey
Q: In which cathedral is William the Conqueror buried? A: Caen
Q: Which type of bird can be Long-toed, Spur-winged, Crowned or Caspian? A: Plover
Q: Which type of bird can be Lappet-faced, White-headed, Hooded or Egyptian? A: Vulture
Q: Who, in 1977 sang: The sirens are screaming and the fires are howling / Way down in the valley tonight / There's a man in the shadows with a gun in his eye / And a blade shining oh so bright' A: Meatloaf
Q: Longyearbyen is the main town on which island? A: Spitsbergen
Q: Iqaluit is the main town on which island? A: Baffin Island
Q: In which country are the majority of the Tolpuddle Martyrs buried? A: Canada
Q: Which 20th century novel contains the characters Curly, Crooks and Candy? A: Of Mice and Men
Q: Which British city was the first in the world to have a registered football club? A: Sheffield
Q: Which breed of dog won Supreme Champion at Crufts in 2008? A: (Giant) Schnauzer
Q: Precisely, which creature features on Preston North End's badge? A: Lamb
Q: Which British town was invaded by the French in 1797? A: Fishguard
Q: Which organisation is nicknamed the 'Grey Funnel Line'? A: Royal Navy
Q: What are duck, lawn and sarsanet? A: Fabrics
Q: Natives of which town are known as 'Monkeyhangers'? A: Hartlepool
Q: Which 20th century novel contains the characters Tom Robinson, Dill and Calpurnia? A: To Kill a Mockingbird
Q: In 1992, Margaret Thatcher was made Baroness Thatcher of where? A: Kesteven
Q: The Egyptian god Bastet had the head of which animal? A: Cat
Q: The Hindu god Hanuman has the form of which animal? A: Monkey
Q: Who was the queen of the Brigantes who handed Caractacus over to the Romans? A: Cartimandua
Q: Who was the 3ra century AD queen of Palmyra who led her people to war against Rome? A: Zenobia
Q: Which island lies between, and is connected by causeways to, North Uist and South Uist? A: Benbecula
Q: On which Hebridean island was the BBC programme 'Castaway 2000' set? A: Taransay
Q: By what name is Margaretha Geertruida Macleod (nee Zelle) better known? A: Mata Hari
Q: 'Carve her name with pride' is a book (and film) about which World War II heroine? A: Violette Szabo
Q: Which cartoon character had friends called Velma Dinidey and Daphne Blake? A: Scooby Doo
Q: Which supermodel wrote the book Swan? A: Naomi Campbell
Q: Which horse won the 2007 Grand National? A: Silver Birch
Q: Who rides the three day eventer, Toytown? A: Zara Phillips
Q: What is the name of the highest point on the Isle of Man? A: Snaefell
Q: Which celebrity won Strictly Come Dancing in December 2007? A: Alesha Dixon
Q: In which town did both Jeffrey Archer and John Cleese grow up? A: Weston Super Mare
Q: Which Jane Austen novel features Mr Knightley and Frank Churchill? A: Emma
Q: Name the son of Charles and Carrie Pooter. A: Lupin Pooter
Q: What type of animal is a coney? A: Rabbit
Q: Who was the principal architect of Liverpool's St George's Hall? A: Harvey Lonsdale Elmes
Q: What is the main ingredient of tofu? A: Soya beans
Q: "For which Rolling Stones hit did David Bowie sing the backing vocal chorus ""I like it""?" A: It's Only Rock 'n' Roll
Q: Who had hits with Stepping Out and Different For Girls? A: Joe Jackson
Q: Which historical event of 1819 is commemorated by a plaque on Manchester's Radisson hotel? A: Peterloo Massacre
Q: Of which country is the Quetzal the unit of currency? A: Guatemala
Q: Sorex Minutus is the Latin name for which British mammal? A: Pygmy Shrew
Q: The Dagmoush Clan run all criminal activities in which Middle East gity? A: Gaza
Q: Which South American country's national airline is called Pluna? A: Uruguay
Q: Which motor cycle company made a model called the Electra Glide? A: Harley Davidson
Q: Give a year in the life of Bram Stoker. A: 1847-1912
Q: What is the name of the teacher imprisoned in the Sudan for calling a teddy bear Mohammed? A: Gillian Gibbons
Q: What do Australian aborigines call Ayers Rock? A: Uluru
Q: Lexico was the original name for which board game? A: Scrabble
Q: Malcolm Morley was the first winner of what in 1984? A: Turner Prize
Q: In which year were women given the vote in the USA? A: 1920
Q: What is the name of the French rogue trader who lost £3.6billion on the stock market? A: Jerome Kerviel
Q: What is the capital of the Yemeni Republic? A: Sana
Q: What is the oldest living species of tree? A: Bristlecone Pine
Q: Algophobia is an irrational fear of what? A: Pain
Q: What type of animal is a bongo? A: Antelope
Q: If an item is described as sagittate, what shape is it? A: Arrowhead
Q: What annual sporting event first took place at the Kennington Oval in 1872? A: FA Cup Final
Q: What is the world's most widely read magazine? A: Reader's Digest
Q: Little Nell is a character in which Dickens novel? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: Which freshwater fish has the Latin name Tinca Tinca? A: Tench
Q: Which actor wrote the book The Moon's a Balloon? A: David Niven
Q: Which South American country's national airline is called Varig? A: Brazil
Q: "Which former British boxer is known as 'Champagne Charlie""?" A: Charlie Magri
Q: What is the name of the virus that frequently occurs on cruise ships? A: Norovirus
Q: Give a year in the life of the Mexican artist Diego Rivera. A: 1886-1957
Q: George de Mestral invented what type of fastener in 1948? A: Velcro
Q: Which jockey won the 2007 Derby? A: Frankie Dettori
Q: For what offence was Al Capone jailed? A: Tax evasion
Q: The Ainu are an aboriginal people from which country? A: Japan
Q: What do you call the bat in a game of shuttlecock? A: Battledore
Q: What is the state capital of New Mexico? A: Santa Fe
Q: Who created the sculpture of a bird on a pole outside Liverpool Cathedral? A: Tracey Emin
Q: In which year was NATO founded? A: 1949
Q: What was the name of the bank that rogue trader Nick Leeson worked for? A: Barings
Q: What is the capital of the Sultanate of Oman? A: Muscat
Q: What is the largest species of tree, in terms of height and trunk girth? A: Giant Sequoia
Q: The Kookaburra belongs to which family of birds? A: Kingfisher
Q: Apiophobia is a morbid fear of what? A: Bees
Q: A pinnate item is what shape? A: Feather
Q: What were the American militiamen called during the War of Independence? A: Minutemen
Q: In which city did Roger Bannister become the first man to break the four minute barrier for the mile? A: Oxford
Q: Which newspaper group owns the Liverpool Echo? A: Trinity Mirror Group
Q: The Lambeth Walk is a dance from which musical? A: Me and My Girl
Q: A muster is a group of what? A: Peacocks
Q: Where would you find Moai statues? A: Easter Island
Q: In which year was the International Garden Festival held in Liverpool? A: 1984
Q: Which National Trust property is located adjacent to Liverpool John Lennon Airport? A: Speke Hall
Q: The azalea is a member of which genus of plants? A: Rhododendron
Q: Which town is the administrative HQ of Flintshire? A: Mold
Q: Whose first novel was Buddenbrooks, published in 1901? A: Thomas Mann
Q: In which city was Charles Dickens born? A: Portsmouth
Q: Retinol is another name for which vitamin? A: Vitamin A
Q: Which American state has the nickname the Green Mountain state? A: Vermont
Q: Which mammal is the nearest relative of the giraffe, and is only found in the Democratic Republic of Congo? A: Okapi
Q: Who wrote the novel Agnes Grey, in 1847? A: Anne Bronte
Q: Saffron is obtained from which flower? A: Crocus
Q: Who wrote the poetic drama 'Murder in the Cathedral' in 1939? A: T S Eliot
Q: What is the capital of Venezuela? A: Caracas
Q: Which film star was born on 20 June 1909 in Hobart, Tasmania? A: Errol Flynn
Q: What is the official language of Ethiopia? A: Amharic
Q: What is the alternative English name for the rowan tree? A: Mountain Ash
Q: Which year saw the culmination and end of the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: 1962
Q: What does the Russian word Pravda mean? A: Truth
Q: How many stars are there on the Australian flag? A: 6
Q: Which country owns the Aland Islands? A: Finland
Q: Lao Tse (or Lauzi) is a central figure of which religion? A: Taoism
Q: Which American film actor who died in 1993 was known principally for his roles in horror films such as 'The Pit and the Pendulum' and 'The Fall of the House of Usher'? A: Vincent Price
Q: What position did Will Sommers hold at the court of Henry VIII? A: Jester
Q: In which New York borough is Greenwich Village? A: Manhattan
Q: In which US state is Palm Springs? A: California
Q: Machu Picchu is a famous ruin in which South American county? A: Peru
Q: On what river does Bristol (UK) stand? A: River Avon
Q: To within one year either way, in which year was Pluto discovered by Clyde Tombaugh? A: 1930
Q: To within one year either way, when was the Sydney Opera House formally opened by Queen Elizabeth II? A: 1973
Q: In which country was Prime Minister Andrew Bonar Law born? A: Canada
Q: What is the literal meaning of the Jewish word 'Kosher'? A: Pure
Q: King George V changed the surname of the British Royal family to Windsor; what had it been previously? A: Saxe-Coburg-Gotha
Q: Name Shirley MacLaine's actor brother. A: Warren Beatty
Q: Which animal married the Owl and the Pussycat in the Edward Lear poem? A: The Turkey
Q: What name is given to the traditional type of folk song sung by Venetian gondoliers? A: Barcarolle
Q: Name the town in California where Clint Eastwood was elected mayor in 1986. A: Carmel(-by-the-sea)
Q: The Irish town of Drogheda stands on which river? A: River Boyne
Q: Saddam Hussein was born in which town? A: Tikrit
Q: Which website was founded by Steve and Julie Pankhurst in 1999? A: Friends Reunited
Q: Which is the largest species of tiger? A: Siberian
Q: Which type of dolphin is most commonly seen in zoos and aquaria? A: Bottlenose
Q: What is the present-day name of the Canadian city known in the early 19th century as York? A: Toronto
Q: What is the meaning of the word Beijing? A: Northern Capital
Q: The Good Companions (1929) and Dangerous Corner (1932) were both written by whom? A: J B Priestley
Q: All My Sons (1947) and The Misfits (1961) are both plays written by whom? A: Arthur Miller
Q: During World War II what was the German plan to flood Britain with forged currency called? A: Operation Bernhard
Q: Which English king is buried in Faversham? A: Stephen
Q: Queen Joan of Navarre was the wife of which English king? A: Henry IV
Q: In which town or city could you consult Mma Ramotswe of the No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency? A: Gabarone
Q: In which county are the Mountains of Mourne? A: Down
Q: Edale is the southern end of which walking trail? A: Pennine Way
Q: Which city hosted the summer Olympic Games of 1912? A: Stockholm
Q: The summer Olympic Games were held in Los Angeles in 1984 and in which other year? A: 1932
Q: The Real Inspector. Hound (1968) and Jumpers (1972) are plays written by whom? A: Tom Stoppard
Q: The Birthday Party (1957) and The Dumb Waiter (1957) are plays written by whom? A: Harold Pinter
Q: Who was the first female to be awarded the Order of Merit? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: Which emperor was shot by a firing squad in 1867? A: Maximilian
Q: When did the Chinese leader Mao Tse Tung die? A: 1976
Q: The Old Bailey, the Central Criminal Court, in London was opened in 1907. It was built close to the site of which other famous building? A: Newgate Prison
Q: Who is the author of The Maid of Buttermere and Time to Dance? A: Melvyn Bragg
Q: What breed of dog was the royal hunting dog in ancient Egypt? A: Saluki
Q: The disease hydrophobia is better known as what? A: Rabies
Q: Slimbridge Wildlife Reserve was founded by whom? A: Peter Scott
Q: What was established by the Lateran Treaty of 1929? A: Vatican City
Q: Which well-known song comes from the masque Alfred composed in 1740? A: Rule Britannia
Q: Which award was made to the Unknown Warrior who was buried in Westminster Abbey in 1920? A: Congressional Medal of Honor
Q: In Verdi's opera Rigoletto what is the occupation of the character Rigoletto? A: Jester
Q: In the world of opera which character introduces himself as 'the general factotum'? A: Barber of Seville
Q: Hanna Glavari is the female lead in which Lehar opera? A: The Merry Widow
Q: The lights on Broadway were put out as a mark of respect following the death of which playwright in November 1950? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Which is the oldest Formula 1 racetrack that is still in use for grand prix racing? A: Indianapolis, USA
Q: Which Middle East state currently hosts a Formula One race? A: Bahrain
Q: Which TV detective works in the fictional town of Denton? A: Inspector Frost
Q: Which US Marine explorer discovered the wreck of the Titanic? A: Robert Ballard
Q: Which strait separates Italy and Sicily? A: Strait of Messina
Q: In Roman mythology who was the father of Romulus and Remus? A: Mars
Q: What was the name of the Cargo ferry forced aground near Blackpool at the end of January 2008? A: Riverdance
Q: In American football which team won the 2008 Superbowl? A: New York Giants
Q: Which horse won the 2007 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Kauto Star
Q: When Apple introduced the I-phone into the UK in 2007 which was the only mobile phone company licensed to use it? A: 02
Q: Which other city besides Liverpool was designated as European Capital of Culture for 2008? A: Stavanger
Q: Which US state is nicknamed both 'Land of the Red Man' and 'the Sooner State'? A: Oklahoma
Q: In WW2 which company manufactured the Mosquito fighter-bomber? A: De Havilland
Q: Which actor starred in the 1940 pirate film 'The Sea Hawk'? A: ERROL FLYNN
Q: Who was the first Yorkist King of England? A: EDWARD IV
Q: Which park in Berlin houses both the 200 and a memorial to Rosa Luxemburg? A: THE TIERGARDEN
Q: The hot and spicy dish Spaghetti Alla Puttanesca is named after what group of workers in Naples? A: PROSTITUTES
Q: Which French artist abandoned the law in favour of art, and specialised in painting ballet dancers, circus folk and race horses? A: EDGAR DEGAS
Q: To which family of fish does the dogfish belong? A: SHARK
Q: Which Polish born British novelist spent 10 years sailing between Singapore and Borneo? A: JOSEPH CONRAD
Q: Who was the first Vice President of the USA? A: JOHN ADAMS
Q: Which record holding try scorer became the first man to win 50 caps at Rugby Union for England? A: RORY UNDERWOOD
Q: In Greek mythology who pined away from unrequited love for Narcissus until only her voice was left? A: ECHO
Q: Which port handles the greatest amount of trade in the world? A: ROTTERDAM
Q: Which artist did Valerie Solanis attempt to murder in 'The Factory'? A: ANDY WARHOL
Q: Which theatre is the London home of the Royal Shakespeare Company? A: THE BARBICAN
Q: The writers C S Lewis and Aldous Huxley both died on the same day in 1963 as which world figure? A: JOHN F KENNEDY
Q: What beverage did Dr John Pemberton of Atlanta, Georgia invent in 1886? A: COCA COLA
Q: Who was the first man to win Olympic Gold medals at 200 and 400 metres? A: MICHAEL JOHNSON
Q: Who was the first person to sail round northern Canada through the Bering Strait in 1906? A: ROALD AMUNDSEN
Q: The plot of which musical concerned a strike at the Sleep-Tite Factory in Iowa? A: THE PYJAMA GAME
Q: Who was the creator of the TV series Star Trek? A: GENE RODDENBERRY
Q: Who is the elephant-headed Hindu God of good luck? A: GANESH
Q: In the children's nursery rhymes with what did Jack mend his head? A: VINEGAR AND BROWN
Q: Which famous slave led the revolt on San Domingo in 1791? A: TOUSSAINT L'OVERTURE
Q: Which French artist, the son of a nobleman, was famous for his paintings and posters of the night life of the Moulin Rouge? A: TOULOUSE-LAUTREC
Q: By what other name is the German Mastiff known? A: GREAT DANE
Q: 'Pt' is the chemical symbol for which element? A: PLATINUM
Q: In Scotland, which soup is traditionally served on Burns Night? A: COCK-A-LEEKIE
Q: Who was the first English King to have held the title Prince of Wales? A: EDWARD II
Q: Which park in Rome is situated in the palace garden of one of its most notorious families? A: THE VILLA BORGHESE
Q: Which actor starred in the 1952 film 'The Crimson Pirate'? A: BURT LANCASTER
Q: Which English composer wrote the music 'Crown Imperial' for the coronation of George VI? A: WILLIAM WALTON
Q: In which country are the world's deepest industrial mines? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Which modern capital is built on the site of ancient Carthage? A: TUNIS
Q: Which recording company turned down the Beatles but signed the Rolling Stones? A: DECCA
Q: Who is the youngest Englishman to score 30 points in a Rugby Union International match? A: JONNY WILKINSON
Q: In Greek mythology who spent 6months of every year in the underworld, a symbolic reference to the germination of seeds and their rebirth every spring? A: PERSEPHONE
Q: Which British author went to Eton and later served with the Indian Imperial Police in Burma? A: GEORGE ORWELL
Q: Which religious figure died in the same week as Princess Diana? A: MOTHER TERESA
Q: What was the name of the American who patented a burglar-proof lock described as 'magic and infallible'? A: LINUS YALE
Q: What is the Paris Stock Exchange called? A: LA BOURSE
Q: The American movie star Kevin Spacey has been the artistic director of which London Theatre for the past 3 years? A: THE OLD VIC
Q: In the TV series what is the Vicar of Dibley's name? A: GERALDINE GRAINGER
Q: In the children's nursery rhyme who was the black sheep's second bag of wooF for? A: THE DAME
Q: What was the name of the Aztec leader defeated by Cortez? A: MONTEZUMA
Q: Who was the wife of Osiris in Egyptian mythology? A: ISIS
Q: Who was the first to reach Asia by sailing all the way around the Cape of Good Hope? A: VASCO DA GAMA
Q: Catfish Row, Charleston is the setting of which opera? A: PORGY AND BESS
Q: Who became the oldest Olympic 100 metres Champion when he won Gold in 1980? A: ALAN WELLS
Q: By what name are the biblical plays of the Middle Ages known? A: MYSTERY PLAYS
Q: What is the motto of the Prince of Wales? A: ICH DIEN
Q: The city of Durham stands on which river? A: Wear
Q: Who wrote TV scripts under the nom-de-plume 'Gerald Wiley'? A: Ronnie Barker
Q: Which film features the song 'Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend'? A: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
Q: The Kittiwake belongs to which family of birds? A: Gulls
Q: In 1959 which British city became the first to adopt a post code system? A: Norwich
Q: Which Irish rally driver won the 1964 Monte Carlo Rally driving a Mini Cooper? A: Paddy Hopkirk
Q: Who is the only man to have won both a motorcycling world championship and the Formula 1 World Championship? A: John Surtees
Q: Which car company is named after the founder of Detroit? A: Cadillac
Q: What is the meaning of the German word 'spätlese' as applied to wine? A: Late harvest
Q: On the London Underground map, what colour is the District Line? A: Green
Q: Which common flower has the Latin name 'Bellis Perennis'? A: Daisy
Q: The Oresund Bridge links Copenhagen to which city? A: Malmo
Q: How is World War 2 known to the Russians? A: (Great) Patriotic War
Q: Which locks control entry to the Panama canal from the Atlantic end? A: Gatun Locks
Q: In Texas Hold 'Em poker what follows the 'flop' and the 'turn'? A: The River
Q: Who led the investigations into the Bill Clinton / Monica Lewinsky affair? A: Kenneth Starr
Q: In which TV series did the voice of Michael Angelis replace that of Ringo Starr? A: Thomas the Tank Engine
Q: Which pre Euro German coin was one hundredth of a mark? A: Pfennig
Q: Ian Kilminster, better known as `Lemmy', is singer with which group? A: Motorhead
Q: Banting, Best and MacLeod are renowned for the discovery of what in 1922? A: Insulin
Q: Which US President was the first to live in the White House? A: John Adams
Q: From which country does the cheese `Manchego' come? A: Spain
Q: Buddy Rich was famous for his playing of which instrument? A: Drums
Q: What name has been used by three Scottish kings, eight Popes and three Russian Tsars? A: Alexander
Q: 'Britain's Got Talent' judge Amanda Holden's first TV appearance was in 1991 on which programme? A: Blind Date
Q: Which football league club moved from Belle Vue and played their first game at the new Keepmoat Stadium on New Year's Day 2007? A: Doncaster Rovers
Q: What is the most famous group of dolmens in England called? A: Stonehenge
Q: What is the familiar name of the garden flower lathyrus odorata? A: Sweet Pea
Q: Which pretender to the English throne styled himself as Richard 4th? A: Perkin Warbeck
Q: What is the meaning of the prefix Kil- or Cill- in Irish place names? A: Church
Q: Which famous aviator and adventurer went missing in the Nevada Desert during September 2007, when the plane he was piloting failed to return? A: Steve Fossett
Q: The law of the sea divides it into three zones, internal Waters, territorial Waters and which other? A: High Seas
Q: Which creature, according to Pliny, had a glance that meant certain death? A: Basilisk
Q: Which engineer designed the WW2 fighter plane, the 'Hurricane'? A: Sydney Camm
Q: Who was depicted on the reverse of the last English pound note? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: What term is used in the financial world to describe an investor who buys a security in the hope of selling it at a higher price, believing that the market will go up? A: Bull
Q: What was invented by the Chinese, imported into Britain from Italy by Charles lst and known to the Arabs as 'sherbet'? A: Ice cream
Q: With which sport is Sir John Sholto Douglas (1844-1900) connected? A: Boxing
Q: Which country imports the biggest volume of Champagne from France? A: Great Britain
Q: What is worn on the feet in a game of street hockey? A: Roller skates
Q: What is the nationality of former Moto GP World Champion Casey Stoner? A: Australian
Q: Which 15-year-old won the 125 CC British Grand Prix at Donington Park 2008? A: Scott Redding
Q: In World War 2 what was the name of the American mass-produced prefabricated cargo ships? A: Liberty Ships
Q: How many pounds are there in an imperial ton? A: 2240
Q: Who, in 1616, announced important observations on blood circulation? A: William Harvey
Q: What is the word for the part of a solid geometric figure left after the top part has been cut off on a plane parallel to the base? A: Frustum
Q: Which major city is located on the River Loire, approximately 50 kilometres from the Atlantic coast? A: Nantes
Q: "Who played Yosser Hughes in the acclaimed TV series ""The Boys From The Black Stuff'?" A: Bernard Hill
Q: What is the name of the cyclist from the Isle of Man who won six stages in the 2009 Tour de France? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: Which theatre was Abraham Lincoln attending when he was assassinated? A: Ford
Q: In which city is the tomb of Saint Ignatius Loyola? A: Rome
Q: Which delicacy are pigs often used to locate? A: Truffles
Q: The character Charlie Hungerford, played by Terence Alexander, appeared in which TV series? A: Bergerac
Q: Whose funeral in New York in 1926 attracted 100,000 mourners? A: Rudolph Valentino
Q: "Who played Himmler in the 1976 film ""The Eagle Has Landed""?" A: Donald Pleasance
Q: in which 1964 Gerry and the Pacemakers film did Cilla Black appear? A: Ferry Across the Mersey
Q: "Who wrote ""March of the Meanies"" for the Beatles' cartoon film ""Yellow Submarine""?" A: George Martin.
Q: Who is Prime Minister of Russia? A: Vladimir Putin
Q: How often does the Lambeth Conference take place? A: Every ten years
Q: "Who had a Greek phrase which could translate as: ""Why worry"" carved into the pediment of his cottage at Cloudshill, Dorset?" A: T.E. Lawrence (of Arabia).
Q: Which 14th-century English religious reformer was often called The Morning Star of the Reformation? A: John Wycliffe
Q: Which modern-day country is the birthplace of Sigmund Freud? A: Czech Republic
Q: Who was the Greek God of Thunder? A: Zeus
Q: What is the flavour of the liqueur Amaretto? A: Almond
Q: "In Australia what is known as ""The Coathanger""?" A: Sydney Harbour Bridge
Q: In 1990, which was the first UK city to be a European City of Culture? A: Glasgow
Q: In Egyptian mythology, which God has the head of a crocodile? A: Sobek
Q: "Which Commonwealth country is known as ""The Land of the Long White Cloud""?" A: New Zealand
Q: In which TV series of the 1990s did Sarah Lancashire play a District Nurse? A: Where The Heart Is
Q: Which bird is also called the stormcock? A: Mistle Thrush
Q: "Who painted ""Virgin Of The Rocks"" or ""Madonna Of The Rocks"" between 1483 and 1506?" A: Leonardo Da Vinci
Q: What is the better-known name for the wood hyacinth? A: Bluebell
Q: How is the thyroid cartilage better known? A: Adam's Apple.
Q: What is the word for uncoined gold and silver? A: Bullion
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of The Orkneys? It is also the name of the cathedral in Kirkwall. A: St Magnus
Q: What, with vinegar, is added to egg yolk to make mayonnaise? A: (Olive) Oil
Q: Which supermarket has a line of clothes known as Cherokee? A: Tesco
Q: Which dessert is obtained from the starch of a palm-tree? A: Sago
Q: What is the name of the aquarium found in Ellesmere Port? A: The Blue Planet
Q: What is the name of the top fashion designer who founder of the Fashion and Textile Museum in London? A: Zandra Rhodes
Q: Who was the first European explorer to cross the Antarctic circle? A: Captain James Cook
Q: With which specific art form do you associate the American Alexander Calder? A: Mobiles
Q: In 1955, in which European city was the wheel-clamp first used, officially? A: Paris
Q: Which county cricket club's HQ was elevated to Test status for the 2009 Ashes series? A: Glamorgan
Q: In the Bible what was the name of Cain's first-born son? A: Enoch
Q: Enoch Powell was MP for which constituency between 1950 and 1974? A: Wolverhampton
Q: Which Wolverhampton Wanderers player scored on his England debut against Scotland at Hampden Park in 1989? A: Steve Bull
Q: In which Spanish city does a famous bull run take place in Italy? A: Pamplona
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol K? A: Potassium
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens does the character Magwitch appear? A: Great Expectations
Q: Which symbol is represented by a figure 8 on its side, known as a lemniscate? A: Infinity
Q: Which is the smallest British bird? A: Goldcrest
Q: Who won the 2009 Rugby Union World Sevens Cup held in Dubai? A: Wales
Q: Mount Kosciuszko is the highest mountain in which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of moles? A: A Labour
Q: Which band had hits with Sad Moon Rising' and 'Proud Mary'? A: Creedence Clearwater Revival
Q: Which TV family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which London tube station has the longest escalator? A: Angel
Q: What is the non-medical name given to people who suffer from kyphosis? A: Hunchback
Q: What is the name of Jupiter's largest moon? A: Ganymede
Q: Who in May 2009 was convicted of the murder of Lana Clarkson? A: Phil Spector
Q: Which everyday kitchen device was developed in 1946 by Percy Le Baron Spencer? A: Microwave
Q: In which city was the Titanic built? A: Belfast
Q: Which saint, whose feast day is 25 July, is the patron saint of travellers, sailors and drivers? A: St Christopher
Q: 'The Arnolfini Marriage' is a famous 1434 painting by whom? A: Jan Van Eyck
Q: What is the nationality of golfer Angel Cabrera? A: Argentinian
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol Na? A: Sodium
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens does the character Dick Swiveller appear? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: How many operas comprise the Ring Cycle? A: Four
Q: Which British bird has the most feathers? A: (Mute) Swan
Q: Which sea lies between New Zealand and Australia? A: Tasman Sea
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Britain at the time of King Edward VIII's abdication in 1936? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: In fiction, who lives at 4 Privet Drive, Little Whinging? A: Harry Potter
Q: What type of headgear is named after a hatmaker born in New Jersey in 1830? A: Stetson
Q: What is the name of the planet discovered in 1781 by William Herschel? A: Uranus
Q: Which US actress, star of TV and films, died in June 2009 in Santa Monica, aged 62? A: Farrah Fawcett
Q: What everyday kitchen device was invented in 1922 by Arthur Leslie Large? A: Electric Kettle
Q: Who did Jenny Von Westphalen marry in 1843? A: Karl Marx
Q: Which French port was the Titanic's first port of call after it left Southampton? A: Cherbourg
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of love? A: Venus
Q: For which newspaper did Superman work? A: Daily Planet
Q: In 1904, which term was used to describe the unofficial alliance between France and Britain? A: ENTENTE CORDIALE
Q: Valparaiso is a city and port in which South American country? A: CHILE
Q: Daniel Deronda was the last novel written by which English novelist? A: GEORGE ELIOT
Q: Playing the zither brought fame to which female musician? A: SHIRLEY ABICAIR
Q: Evelyn Glennie achieved musical fame as what type of musician? A: PERCUSSIONIST
Q: Which country does footballer Michael Essien represent at international level? A: GHANA
Q: Which 1950s film features a motorcycle gang called the Black Rebels? A: THE WILD ONE
Q: Confessions of an English Opium Eater, was a work by which essayist? A: THOMAS DE QUINCEY
Q: Paramaribo is a city and port in which South American country? A: SURINAME
Q: What name is given to inhabitants of Los Angeles? A: ANGELENOS
Q: Which golf course is situated at Virginia Water? A: WENTWORTH
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of the harvest? A: DEMETER
Q: Which series of wars lasted from 1808 to 1814? A: PENINSULAR WARS
Q: In which English county is Caister-on-Sea? A: NORFOLK
Q: Which actor had a hit record in 1964 with 'Ringo'? A: LORNE GREEN
Q: Who wrote the poem The Deserted Village? A: OLIVER GOLDSMITH
Q: What was the name of the first computer to beat a chess champion? A: DEEP BLUE
Q: What poet wrote 'Come Into the Garden Maud'? A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: Which actor and comedian had a hit record in 1975 with The Ugly Duckling? A: MIKE REID
Q: In which English county is Chipping Norton? A: OXFORDSHIRE
Q: Which 1990 film earned Kathy Bates a Best Actress Oscar? A: MISERY
Q: Which war lasted from 1740 to 1748? A: WAR OF AUSTRIAN SUCCESSION
Q: Which golf course is situated in Sutton Coldfield? A: THE BELFRY
Q: Who was the female presenter of the 1970s TV show `Tiswas'? A: SALLY JAMES
Q: In which Dickens novel do Daniel and Mrs Quilp appear? A: THE OLD CURIOSITY
Q: Whom did Malcolm Williamson succeed as master of the Queens Music? A: SIR ARTHUR BLISS
Q: Which German philosopher wrote Critique of Pure Reason? A: IMMANUEL KANT
Q: In 'The Wizard of Oz' what did Dorothy have to say to get back to Kansas? A: THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE HOME
Q: Which German theoretical physicist was the best known for enunciating the 'uncertainty principle'? A: WERNER HEISENBERG
Q: What disease did Robert the Bruce die of? A: LEPROSY
Q: Which Australian wicket-keeper and batsman hit 100 sixes in his test march career? A: ADAM GILCHRIST
Q: Who was the conductor of the Halle orchestra for nearly three decades? A: SIR JOHN BARBIROLLI
Q: Which Dickens novel features Dotheboys Halls? A: NICHOLAS NICKLEBY
Q: Which actor played the part of Captain Smith in the 1997 film `Titanic'? A: BERNARD HILL
Q: In Benny Hill's 1971 hit, how old was 'Ernie, The Fastest Milkman in the West'? A: 52
Q: What term is used for a fear of lightning? A: ASTRAPHOBIA
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin word 'Alias'? A: OTHERWISE
Q: Which rugby Super League team play at Belle Vue Stadium? A: WAKEFIELD WILDCATS
Q: In which 1980s TV sit-com did Brenda and Malcolm enjoy ornithology? A: WATCHING
Q: I In which year was the Piper Alpha oil rig disaster? A: 1988
Q: In which year was the Hungerford massacre? A: 1987
Q: In the 1970s TV sit-corn Please Sir, what was the name of the caretaker? A: POTTER
Q: Which rugby Super League team play at The Brewery Field? A: CELTIC CRUSADERS
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin word 'Alibi'? A: ELSEWHERE
Q: The Wasp Factory, published in 1984, was the first novel by which writer? A: IAIN BANKS
Q: What geographical feature is described as an elevated area of land, with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs? A: MESA
Q: Complete the line from this Frankie Valli hit, 'Oh what a night, last December back in ' A: 63
Q: How many players are there in a Gaelic Football team? A: 15
Q: Which line on the London Underground map is represented in red? A: CENTRAL LINE
Q: What is the second largest rodent in the world after the Capybara? A: BEAVER
Q: The song 'You'll be in my heart', comes from which Disney film? A: TARZAN
Q: "Who said ""I don't want to belong to any club that will have me for a member""?" A: Groucho Marx
Q: What was the first name of the Duke of Wellington? A: Arthur
Q: In 1893, which was the first country to impose driving tests and issue driving licences? A: France
Q: The commercial name of which fruit cordial is derived from the Latin for blackcurrant? A: Ribena
Q: Which famous jazz club is in Frith Street, London? A: Ronnie Scott's
Q: Who invented the ballbarrow and the `Airblade' hand-drier amongst many other things? A: James Dyson
Q: Who played the part of 'Budgie' in the 1971/72 ITV drama series? A: Adam Faith
Q: What is the capital of the Italian region of Lombardy? A: Milan
Q: Which actor plays the title role in the Harry Potter films? A: Daniel Radcliffe
Q: Pope Benedict 16th was Archbishop of which city? A: Munich
Q: Which 1927 musical is set aboard the 'Cotton Blossom'? A: Showboat
Q: Which aircraft was designed initially by the British Aircraft Corporation as a replacement for the Canberra but was cancelled by the Labour Government in April 1965? A: TSR 2
Q: Which car company was formed in 1908 by the merger of Buick and Oldsmobile? A: General Motors
Q: Which 92 year old actor has written an autobiography entitled 'I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire, I Just Want to Keep My Nuts Warm'? A: Ernest Borgnine
Q: In which modem day country is the site of the Battle of Blenheim? A: Germany
Q: Which 60s TV sitcom featured the Rev Mervyn Noote and St Ogg's Cathedral? A: All Gas and Gaiters
Q: Which fictional character lived in the village of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh? A: Dr Doolittle
Q: In which Cumbrian town is the annual crab fair held, famous for its gurning competition? A: Egremont
Q: "Complete the next line of the song ""The blushing bride she looks divine, the bridegroom he is doing fine, I'd rather have his job than mine .....""?" A: When I'm Cleaning Windows
Q: What would be the occupation of someone who uses 'slip' and 'grog'? A: Pottery
Q: "The last words of which statesman are reputed to have been ""So little done, so much to do""?" A: Cecil Rhodes
Q: Which famous singer was once married to Renate Blauel? A: Elton John
Q: From which country does the popular Christmas plant, the Poinsettia, originate? A: Mexico
Q: The tune 'Johnny Todd' was the theme to which TV programme? A: Z Cars
Q: Which is the shortest book in the Bible having only one chapter of twenty-one verses? A: Obadiah
Q: Piers Morgan is a former editor of which national daily newspaper? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Which children's character was created by Jean de Brunhoff? A: Babar
Q: What was the name of the midge-borne viral infection that affected British livestock in the late summer of 2007? A: Bluetongue
Q: A bipolar illness is another name for what? A: (Manic) Depression
Q: A Winter Banana is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: Joey Bishop, who died in October 2007, was the last survivor of a group of people known by which name? A: The 'Rat Pack'
Q: Pongo and Perdita feature in which Disney film? A: 101 Dalmatians
Q: Which is the world's oldest international sporting trophy? A: The Americas Cup
Q: Which is the longest river wholly in England not to empty directly into the sea? A: Trent
Q: Of which Oscar Wilde play is Mrs Arbuthnot the title character? A: A Woman of No Importance
Q: The pengo, subject to massive inflation, was the pre- World War 2 currency unit of which European country? A: Hungary
Q: In which city is the Nobel Peace Centre? A: Oslo
Q: Who released the new album 'Together through Life' and as a result has become the oldest male to have a no 1 hit album in Britain? A: Bob Dylan
Q: In 1650 James Ussher calculated the date of the origin of the Earth, according to Biblical chronology, as 4004BC. Of where was Ussher the Archbishop? A: Armagh
Q: The Giotto space probe was launched in 1986 specifically to examine what? A: Halley's Comet
Q: Which London museum was originally called the Museum of Ornamental Art? A: Victoria & Albert
Q: Which is the longest river in Northern Ireland? A: Bann
Q: An isotope of which chemical element was used to poison Alexander Litvinenko? A: Polonium
Q: Which country declared itself the first atheist state when all religion was banned in 1967? A: Albania
Q: What was the original name of the city of Volgograd before it was called Stalingrad? A: Tsaritsyn
Q: After whose Queen is the US state Maryland named? A: Charles I
Q: What do the lachrymal glands produce? A: Tears
Q: What was the title of the 2006 BBC TV series about a group of postmen in Manchester? A: Sorted
Q: Apart from Anne Boleyn, which other wife of Henry 8th was executed? A: Catherine Howard
Q: The Serengeti National Park is in which country? A: Tanzania
Q: Citrus Paradisi is the Latin name for which fruit? A: Grapefruit
Q: Which football club effectively held the English Football League Championship throughout both World Wars? A: Everton FC
Q: In Greek myth, what was the name of the winged horse? A: Pegasus
Q: "Born 1888, who composed the song ""There's No Business Like Show Business""?" A: Irving Berlin
Q: "Who presents BBC Radio Two's ""Good Morning Sunday"" (7 am to 9 am)?" A: Aled Jones
Q: The traditional beef (or hare) stifado stew originated in which country? A: Greece
Q: The kissing disease (infectious mononucleosis) has what common name? A: Glandular fever
Q: Which supermarket chain instituted 'Computers for Schools' in 1992? A: Tesco
Q: Which US singer/record producer was shot dead by his father in 1984? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: Roquefort, Gorgonzola, and Stilton cheeses have what distinguishing factor? A: Blue veins
Q: Which country has had the most wins in the Eurovision Song Contest? A: Ireland
Q: "What was the name of ""RMS Titanic's"" older sister ship?" A: RMS Olympic
Q: "Who played the role of Philip Smith in TV's ""Rising Damp""?" A: Don Warrington
Q: What is the heraldic name for silver? A: Argent
Q: Which radioactive metallic element has the symbol Pu, atomic number 94? A: Plutonium
Q: Give a year in the reign of King Henry the Fourth of England/ A: 1399-1413
Q: What do the opposite sides of a die (dice) always add up to? A: Seven
Q: """New York Mining Disaster 1941"" was the first US release for which group?" A: The Bee Gees
Q: Frank Richard's (Charles Hamilton) 'Billy Bunter' attended which school? A: Greyfriars
Q: Who was assassinated on April 4th 1968 in Memphis, Tennessee? A: Martin Luther King
Q: "Which actor played the role of John McClane in the ""Die Hard"" films?" A: Bruce Willis
Q: Alligator Alley (on Interstate 75) in which US state? A: Florida
Q: Citrus unshui (or mikan), of Chinese origin, has what UK name? A: Satsuma
Q: Bill Shankly signed Kevin Keegan from which club in 1971? A: Scunthorpe United
Q: In Greek myth, which three-headed dog guarded the gate to Hades? A: Cerberus
Q: "Born 1892, who composed the song ""Miss Otis Regrets""?" A: Cole Porter
Q: In Morse Code, which letter of the alphabet is dot dash? A: The letter A
Q: Originating in Eastern Europe, which pressed meat is seasoned with herbs and spices, smoked, and steamed after smoking? A: Pastrami
Q: Which American (1886-1956) founded the modern frozen food industry? A: Clarence Birdseye
Q: "Which American R&B/soul singer (1951-2005) won the 2004 Grammyfor Song of the Year Award for the track ""Dance With My Father""?" A: Luther Vandross
Q: "Which group/act were the first Germans to have a UK No. 1 hit with ""The Model/Computer Love'?" A: Kraftwerk - -
Q: What was the first name of Stretford-born artist L. S. Lowry? A: Laurence
Q: "Which Cunard Line ship first came to the aid of ""RMS Titanic""?" A: RMS Carpathia
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Hg, atomic number 80? A: Mercury
Q: Magellan, Galapagos, and Chinstrap are varieties of which animal? A: Penguin
Q: Clare Grogan was the lead singer with which '80's band? A: Altered Images
Q: Which Welsh county is known as 'Little England beyond Wales'? A: Pembrokeshire
Q: Which incident occured near to Creddington, Buckinghamshire on 8th August 1963? A: Great Train Robbery
Q: Which aircraft had its first flight in February 1969? A: Boeing 747
Q: Gerry Goffin was the husband of which singer? A: Carole King
Q: Which German battleship is being salvaged from the River Plate? A: Admiral Graf Spee
Q: Which number president of the USA was George W Bush? A: 43
Q: In population terms what is the largest Spanish speaking country in the world? A: Mexico
Q: Who wrote 'A Short History of Nearly Everything' in 2003? A: Bill Bryson
Q: Who was the youngest President of the USA, taking office in 1901? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: In which year was NATO formed? A: 1949
Q: Who was the first man seen on Channel 4 TV? A: Richard Whiteley
Q: In which year was Mahatma Gandhi assassinated? A: 1948
Q: How many natural noble gases are there? A: 6
Q: Who played the title role in the 1962 film 'The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner'? A: Tom Courtenay
Q: Which planet is the densest in the Solar System? A: Earth
Q: Which male film star's final film in 1961 was 'The Misfits'? A: Clark Gable
Q: Which planet is thought to be the hottest in the Solar System? A: Venus
Q: Which painter's last words were reputedly 'Drink to me'? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Cyril Nicholas Henty-Dodd, a TV star from the1960s, died in August 2009 aged 74. Who was he better known as? A: Simon Dee
Q: "In the USA what is celebrated on 2""d February?" A: Groundhog Day
Q: In the Royal Navy what is the equivalent rank to a Field Marshal in the Army? A: Admiral of the Fleet
Q: What type of creature is a basilisk? A: Lizard
Q: What is the date of All Souls Day? A: 2nd November
Q: Which actress has the real name Illiana Lydia Petrovna Mironova? A: Helen Mirren
Q: In the RAF what is the highest non-commissioned officer's rank? A: Warrant Officer
Q: Which Roman road linked Lincoln to Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: Which British coin ceased to be legal tender in 1970? A: Half Crown
Q: The Roman road Ermine Street started in London and terminated in which city? A: York
Q: `If music be the food of love play on' is the opening line of which Shakespeare play? A: Twelfth Night
Q: What is the name of the casing in which a ship's compass is kept? A: Binnacle
Q: What was the Christian name of Bertie Wooster's manservant Jeeves? A: Reginald
Q: How many chromosomes does a normal human have? A: 46
Q: Who wrote and composed the opera Oedipus Rex in 1927? A: Stravinsky
Q: What is the most popular hymn written by Henry Francis Lyte, in 1844? A: Abide With Me
Q: Who played the TV detective Maisie Raine? A: Pauline Quirke
Q: Which company makes an MPV ('people carrier') model called Meriva? A: Vauxhall
Q: Which team won the 2009 Rugby League Challenge Cup? A: Warrington Wolves
Q: King Michael abdicated which country's throne in 1947? A: Romania
Q: Which company makes an MPV ('people carrier') model called Carens? A: Kia
Q: Which novelist created the characters of Dalziel and Pascoe? A: Reginald Hill
Q: Who captained the England cricket team to victory in the 2009 Ashes series? A: Andrew Strauss
Q: How many stars make up the European Union flag? A: 12
Q: In which decade of the 20th century were the first Academy Awards (Oscars) ceremony? A: 1920s
Q: Which shipping area is north of Forties? A: Viking
Q: What is another common name for the Araucaria tree? A: Monkey Puzzle
Q: Who won an Oscar for the music for Chariots of Fire in 1981? A: Vangelis
Q: Which shipping area is due north of Trafalgar? A: Fitzroy
Q: W is the symbol for which chemical element? A: Tungsten
Q: Of what was the Vulgate a version? A: The Bible
Q: Which Battle of 1813 is also called the Battle of The Nations? A: LEIPZIG
Q: "What is the title of the poem which begins ""The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck?" A: CASABIANCA
Q: Which 19th Century Prime Minister was surnamed Lamb? A: LORD MELBOURNE
Q: Amadeus I ruled which Country 1870-1873? A: SPAIN
Q: Money Ponds is a suburb of which Australian City? A: MELBOURNE
Q: Tom Jones sang the title song of which Bond film? A: THUNDERBALL
Q: The Bactrian Camel is named after a region in which country? A: AFGHANISTAN
Q: Henry McCarty was the real name of which wild western character? A: BILLY THE KID
Q: What is the English alternative name for the Ruenzori mountain range in East Africa? A: MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON
Q: Which painter used his neighbours in the village of Cookham as the subjects of many of his works? A: STANLEY SPENCER
Q: From which disease did Oliver Cromwell die? A: MALARIA
Q: From which disease did Robert the Bruce die? A: LEPROSY
Q: "In the film ""Goldfinger"" what was the name of Shirley Eaton's character, fatally painted in gold?" A: JILL MASTERSON
Q: Jack Point is a character in which Gilbert & Sullivan opera? A: YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
Q: David Cameron represents which parliamentary constituency? A: WITNEY
Q: What is the capital city of Chechnya? A: GROZNY
Q: "Which Pre-Raphaelite artist painted ""The Death of Ophelia""?" A: JOHN EVERETT MILLAIS
Q: Who was elected by the Apostles to replace Judas? A: MATTHIAS
Q: Sanditon was the novel left uncompleted at the time of the death of which author? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: The plays 'The Barber of Seville' and 'Marriage of Figaro' were written by whom? A: BEAUMARCHAIS
Q: Who played the Ringo Kid in the 1938 film 'Stagecoach'? A: JOHN WAYNE
Q: 'Ophidian' refers to which kind of creatures? A: SNAKES
Q: Michael Caine won his first Oscar for his role in which film? A: HANNAH AND HER SISTERS
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Les Miserables""?" A: VICTOR HUGO
Q: Which horse racing bet entails a series of a multiple of 5 selections? A: CANADIAN
Q: Which disease used to be called infantile paralysis? A: POLIOMYELITIS
Q: Who is the current presenter of Radio 4s 'Desert Island Discs' A: KIRSTY YOUNG
Q: The Primrose League referred to the supporters of which Prime Minister? A: BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Q: Who composed the incidental music to Ibsen's play 'Peer Gynt'? A: EDWARD GRIEG
Q: The Collegiate Church of St Peter, also known as Westminster Abbey, is an example of what type of place of worship falling under the direct jurisdiction of the British monarch? A: ROYAL PECULIAR
Q: Name the last ruling house of Imperial Germany? A: HOHENZOLLERN
Q: Who exercises power in a stratocracy? A: THE MILITARY
Q: "Who wrote a novel based on the ""Titanic"" story entitled ""Every Man For Himself'?" A: BERYL BAINBRIDGE
Q: The Wokingham Stakes is run annually at which race course? A: (ROYAL) ASCOT
Q: John Galliano is the principal couturier for which fashion house? A: DIOR
Q: Batemans was the house of which writer? A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: "Which Shakespearian character described himself as ""A man more sinned against then sinning""?" A: KING LEAR
Q: Which make of rocket propels research hardware for the European Space Agency? A: ARIANE
Q: In which overseas territory is the launch site for Ariane probes? A: GUYANE
Q: Which is the only horse to win five Cheltenham Gold Cups? A: GOLDEN MILLER
Q: The detective Albert Campion was created by which author? A: MARGERY ALLINGHAM
Q: What substance is the basis of the artists paint tempera? A: EGG YOLK
Q: Snot the Norseman gave his name to which English City? A: NOTTINGHAM
Q: Who created the Private Detective in Imperial Rome, Marcus Didius Falco? A: LINDSEY DAVIS
Q: A protuberant lower lip was a general characteristic of which European dynasty? A: HAPSBURGS
Q: Mark Forrest and Nick Bailey are DJs on which Radio Station? A: CLASSIC FM
Q: The first FA Cup Final took place where? A: (Kennington) OVAL
Q: Who was the Republican candidate defeated by Barack Obama in the 2008 Presidential election? A: John McCain
Q: DS Hathaway works with which TV detective? A: Lewis
Q: Which composer, who died 200 years ago in 1809, wrote a series of 'London' symphonies? A: Haydn
Q: Folk/blues singer/guitarist Steven Gene Wold is known by which nickname? A: Seasick Steve
Q: Which part of England is to become a National Park in 2011? A: South Downs
Q: At the 2009 Academy Awards who won the Oscar for Best Director for his film 'Slumdog Millionaire'? A: Danny Boyle
Q: Which Scottish malt whisky, sold in a distinctive bottle, is produced by William Grant's and 'made without compromise'? A: Glenfiddich
Q: A new sculpture, by Spaniard Jaume Plensa, is being completed alongside the M62 in St Helens, what is it called? A: Dream
Q: Which motorway links Southampton and Portsmouth? A: M27
Q: Of which nationalised industry was Peter Parker appointed Chairman in 1976? A: British Rail
Q: Who is the Vice President of the USA? A: Joe Biden
Q: King Charles 2nd founded the Royal Hospital in 1682, how are the occupants known? A: Chelsea Pensioners
Q: In which London Square is the Royal Court Theatre? A: Sloane Square
Q: What name do sailors give to a rope that hoists up a sail? A: Halyard
Q: Which composer, born 200 years ago in 1809, wrote 'Scottish' and 'Italian' symphonies? A: Mendelssohn
Q: The currency of which European country is the kuna? A: Croatia
Q: Snowdonia and the Brecon Beacons are two of the National Parks in Wales, name the third? A: Pembrokeshire Coast
Q: Name either of the two races at Newmarket that make up the 'autumn double'? A: Cesarewitch
Q: DS Hazel Wallace works with which TV detective? A: Frost
Q: Under the rule of the White Witch it is always winter but never Christmas - in whose novel? A: CS Lewis
Q: Ebbsfleet in Kent will be the site of a giant sculpture by Mark Wallinger, what form will the sculpture take? A: (Giant) Horse
Q: Which colourful, noisy bird, found across Europe, northwest Africa and Asia, is found in a woodland habitat? The common variety has the scientific name Garrulus Glandarius? A: Jay
Q: Which jazz musician, he played the tenor sax and clarinet, was nicknamed 'Prez'? A: Lester Young
Q: Whose 'Plays Pleasant' included `Candida' and 'You Never Can Tell'? A: G B Shaw
Q: Which North Yorkshire town is home to the Green Howards Regimental Museum, a castle and Fresh Radio? A: Richmond
Q: What name is given in geometry to two or more shapes that are identical? A: Congruent
Q: The charity 'Bliss' supports who or what? A: Premature Babies
Q: The borders of 4 African countries meet at one point, name any one of the 4 countries. A: Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe
Q: Which Scottish malt whisky is produced by 'the sixteen men of Tain'? A: Glenmorangie
Q: What name do sailors give to a rope that pulls a sail tight? A: Sheet
Q: In 'The Box of Delights', the Bishop of Tatchester is rescued from his abductors in time for Christmas - who is the author? A: John Masefield
Q: Which jazz musician, he played the vibraphone, was nicknamed 'Bags'? A: Milt Jackson
Q: The football club BATE Borisov made their debut in the European Champions League this season, in which country do they play? A: Belarus
Q: Which East Yorkshire town has squares called 'Saturday Market' and 'Wednesday Market', England's most impressive church that isn't a cathedral and England's oldest state school? A: Beverley
Q: Which famous novelist wrote the 1948 novel 'The Heart of the Matter' and the 1957 play 'The Potting Shed'? A: Graham Greene
Q: In maths and physics, what name is given to any quantity that has both magnitude and direction? A: Vector
Q: Which UK city is overlooked by Cave Hill? A: Belfast
Q: The 19th century movement for the unification of Italy was known by what name? A: Risorgimento
Q: The cricket pavilion at the Queen's Park Oval has been named after which player, the island's most famous cricketer? A: Brian Lara
Q: The seeds of the nux vomica tree contain which poison? A: Strychnine
Q: Which daily newspaper has a column called 'Mandrake'? A: Telegraph
Q: In show-jumping, how many faults does a competitor get for a refusal? A: Three
Q: In which series of films does the character John McClane appear? A: Die Hard
Q: In which city is the TV series 'ER' set? A: Chicago_
Q: Which daily newspaper was first issued in 1900 at the price of ½d (halfpenny) and from 1914 came under the control of Lord Beaverbrook? A: Daily Express
Q: In which month is Martin Luther King Day celebrated in the USA? A: January
Q: Which is the largest of the asteroids? A: Ceres
Q: In ice skating, what was the maximum mark that a judge could give to a competitor (in competitions up to 2006)? A: Six
Q: Which sea lies between Saudi Arabia and the Sudan? A: Red Sea
Q: Gibraltar Point stands on the English coast, in which county? A: Lincolnshire
Q: Which angel is reputed to have given the word of God (the Koran) to Mohammed? A: Gabriel
Q: Allium porrum is the scientific name of which vegetable? A: Leek
Q: In 'The Simpsons', who is headmaster of the school that Bart attends? A: Seymour Skinner
Q: Which physicist is credited with the 'Quantum Theory'? A: Max Planck
Q: Who created the character 'Mike Hammer'? A: Mickey Spillane
Q: In which city is the TV series 'Gray's Anatomy' set? A: Seattle
Q: Now part of Santander, with which company would you have expected 'a smarter investor'? A: Alliance & Leicester
Q: Which daily newspaper was founded in 1855 and was the first London penny paper? It was the means of sending Henry Morgan Stanley to Africa to continue Livingstone's work. A: Daily Telegraph
Q: Millfield and Downside are public schools in which English county? A: Somerset
Q: Which spirit is found in a Metropolitan cocktail? A: Brandy
Q: Which Shakespeare play begins 'If music be the food of love, play on'? A: Twelfth Night
Q: The angel Moroni appears in which religious book? A: Book of Mormon
Q: Blackpool is found on the English coast as well as in Lancashire, in which county is it? A: Devon
Q: In which month is George Washington Day celebrated in the USA? A: February
Q: According to Arthurian legend, which knight returned Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake? A: Sir Bedivere
Q: In 'The Simpsons', who has two children named Tod and Rod? A: Ned Flanders
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister to live in 10 Downing Street? A: Sir Robert Walpole
Q: In which country did Kaiser Wilhelm II live from 1918 until his death in 1941? A: Netherlands
Q: In which films do the characters Peter Venkman, Ray Stantz, Egon Spengler and Winston Zeddemore appear? A: Ghostbusters
Q: In the 2009 Tour de France which British Olympic medallist finished 4th overall? A: Bradley Wiggins
Q: Who wrote 'The Boys From Brazil'? A: Ira Levin
Q: The life of 15th century French serial killer Gilles de Rais is believed to be the basis of which story by Charles Perrault? A: Bluebeard
Q: What is the name of the country as it appears on Swedish stamps? A: Sverige
Q: In Greek mythology who killed Hector? A: Achilles
Q: Who created the character 'Sam Spade'? A: Dashiell Hammett
Q: What was the real name of the pirate, Blackbeard? A: Edward Teach
Q: In which city were the World Swimming Championships held in July 2009? A: Rome
Q: Wellingborough and Oundle are public schools in which English county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: Which spirit is found in a daiquiri cocktail? A: Rum
Q: In which country did Idi Amin settle and die after his exile from Uganda? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: In the 2009 Tour de France which British cyclist won six stages? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: Which is the only body of water in Scotland to be called a lake as opposed to a loch? A: Lake of Menteith
Q: Who wrote 'Memoirs of a Foxhunting Man'? A: Siegfried Sassoon
Q: Which is the brightest of the asteroids? A: Vesta
Q: In Greek mythology who killed Achilles? A: Paris
Q: Which group released the album 'A Hundred Million Suns'? A: Snow Patrol
Q: What is the architectural term for ornamental stonework representing a scroll of paper? A: Cartouche
Q: "The name of which Russian spacecraft means 'east""?" A: Vostok
Q: Prunus persica is the scientific name of which fruit? A: Peach
Q: Henry Cecil Booth patented which household appliance in 1901? A: Vacuum cleaner
Q: What does the musical term 'pizzicato' mean? A: Plucked
Q: Which word is defined as 'an Arctic plain with permanently frozen subsoil'? A: Tundra
Q: The film Yes Man, starring Jim Carrey, is based on the book of the same name by which modern British writer? A: Danny Wallace
Q: Which fruit has varieties called Concorde, Packham and Cornice? A: Pear
Q: The title of Agatha Christie's novel The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side is taken from a line in which poem? A: The Lady of Shalott
Q: What specific part of the body is affected by blepharitis? A: Eyelid
Q: With which musical instrument is Vladimir Ashkenazy associated? A: Piano
Q: In the Beatles film Yellow Submarine what is the name of the land taken over by the Blue Meanies? A: Pepperland
Q: Which country won the most medals at the Paralympics in Beijing? A: China
Q: Who took over from Dermot Murnaghan as host of BBC2's Eggheads? A: Jeremy Vine
Q: Which Nobel-prize winning British playwright died on December 24th 2008? A: Harold Pinter
Q: Which European country has land borders with Greece, Turkey, Romania, Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia? A: Bulgaria
Q: In cricket, which English county one-day side is known as the Phantoms? A: Derbyshire
Q: Which artistic movement was led by Henri Matisse and André Derain? A: Fauvism
Q: Which popular garden bird has the Latin name Erithacus rubecula? A: Robin
Q: During which conflict was the battle of Blenheim fought? A: War of the Spanish Succession
Q: Which European city was the destination of the girls (and thus the boys) in the Cliff Richard film Summer Holiday? A: Athens
Q: Which fruit has varieties called Blue Tit, Czar and Early Laxton? A: Plum
Q: Who hosts the new version of ITV's The Krypton Factor? A: Ben Shephard
Q: "The title of Agatha Christie's novel The Moving Finger comes from the line ""The moving finger writes; and, having writ, moves on"" in which poem?" A: The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam
Q: Which National Trail runs for 177miles from Sedbury Cliffs near Chepstow to Prestatyn? A: Offa's Dyke Path
Q: Which popular garden bird has the Latin name Cyanistes Caeruleus? A: Blue Tit
Q: What specific part of the body is affected by phlebitis? A: Veins
Q: Which country won the most medals overall at the Beijing Olympics in 2008? A: USA
Q: Which European country has land borders with Austria, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Poland and the Czech Republic? A: Slovakia
Q: With which musical instrument is Pablo Casals associated? A: Cello
Q: Which artistic movement was led by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso? A: Cubism
Q: During which conflict was the battle of Creçy fought? A: Hundred Years War
Q: "Which metallic element, number 77 in the periodic table, takes its name from the Latin for ""rainbow""?" A: Iridium
Q: In Greek myth, who was the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, who killed his mother to avenge his father's death? A: Orestes
Q: Who is the BBC's business editor? A: Robert Peston
Q: Give a year in the life of British astronomer Sir William Herschel. A: 1738 - 1822
Q: What is the SI unit of electric current? A: Ampere
Q: In 2008, which actor starred as King Lear in one of the highlights of Liverpool's Capital of Culture year? A: Pete Postlethwaite
Q: In which English county is Beamish Museum? A: Durham
Q: How many triple word score squares are there on a traditional Scrabble board? A: 8
Q: Which British Prime Minister was the last to have been born in the nineteenth century? A: Harold Macmillan
Q: Who wrote the incidental music to Ibsen's Peer Gynt, first performed in 1876? A: Edvard Grieg
Q: Whose first solo UK number 1 single was I'm Still Waiting in August 1971? A: Diana Ross
Q: In which Paris square would you find an obelisk from the temple of Rameses II at Thebes? A: Place de la Concorde
Q: "Which metallic element, number 56 in the periodic table, takes its name from the Greek for ""heavy""?" A: Barium
Q: Which British city has cathedrals dedicated to St Philip and St Chad? A: Birmingham
Q: What is the SI unit of thermodynamic temperature? A: Kelvin
Q: In 2008, which famous actor wowed critics in Stratford with his Hamlet, but had to pull out of the London production? A: David Tennant
Q: Who was the Premier League's top goal scorer for three consecutive seasons between 1994 and 1997? A: Alan Shearer
Q: In Greek myth, who was the daughter of Oedipus and Jocasta who was entombed alive by her uncle for trying to bury her brother Polyneices after the civil war in Thebes? A: Antigone
Q: Who is the BBC's political editor? A: Nick Robinson
Q: What is the capital of the Canadian province of Manitoba? A: Winnipeg
Q: Who set Cardinal Newman's poem The Dream of Gerontius to music in his 1900 oratorio? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Who was the Premier League's top goal scorer for three consecutive seasons between 2004 and 2006? A: Thierry Henry
Q: Who captained the USA to victory in the Ryder Cup in 2008? A: Paul Azinger
Q: Which actress holds the record for the most Oscar nominations? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Who was on the English throne in 1600? A: Elizabeth I
Q: In which book do Mr Jones and The Battle of the Cowshed appear? A: Animal Farm
Q: In which book does Michael Henchard auction his wife and child? A: The Mayor of Casterbridge
Q: Which play has tramps Estragon and Vladimir as the main characters? A: Waiting for Godot
Q: Which Shakespeare play features Rosencrantz and Guildenstern? A: Hamlet
Q: Who painted 'The Laughing Cavalier' in 1624? A: Frans Hals
Q: Who painted 'The Blue Boy' in 1770? A: Thomas Gainsborough
Q: Who shot Lee Harvey Oswald in November 1963? A: Jack Ruby
Q: Who did Sirhan Sirhan assassinate in 1968? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: In which US state is Buffalo? A: New York
Q: In which decade was Blackpool Tower completed? A: 1890s
Q: In which country is Aconcagua located? A: Argentina
Q: In which country is Cotopaxi located? A: Ecuador
Q: Who wrote 'The Trout Quintet' in 1819? A: (Franz) Schubert
Q: Who wrote the music for the 1957 musical 'West Side Story'? A: Leonard Bernstein
Q: La Giralda is the bell tower of which Spanish cathedral? A: Seville
Q: What is the name of the road/rail bridge opened in 2000 that links Copenhagen and Malmo? A: Oresund
Q: What type of creature are Krill? A: Shrimp-like crustaceans
Q: What creature gives birth to a hinny? A: A donkey
Q: To which saint is the Cathedral in Red Square dedicated? A: St Basil
Q: Which club won the UEFA Champions League Final the year before Liverpool's win in Istanbul in 2005? A: Porto
Q: Who commanded the French and Spanish fleet at the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805? A: (Pierre) Villeneuve
Q: Which river comprised the boundary between Hades and Earth in Greek mythology? A: Styx
Q: Who was the ferryman over the Styx? A: Charon
Q: Who wrote the operetta 'Orpheus in the Underworld'? A: Offenbach
Q: What popular name is given to the Infernal Galop from Act 2 of 'Orpheus in the Underworld'? A: The Can Can
Q: In which country is the Nobel Peace Prize awarded? A: Norway
Q: Who wrote the 1986 Booker Prize winning novel 'The Old Devils? A: Kingsley Amis
Q: Who wrote the 1981 Booker Prize winning novel `Midnights Children? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: Which female politician was assassinated in Pakistan in December 2007? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: Which isotope of carbon is used in radiocarbon dating? A: C14
Q: An isotope of which metal was used to poison the Russian Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006? A: Polonium
Q: After the Latin name for which modern European capital is the element Hafnium named? A: Copenhagen
Q: After the Latin name for which modern European capital is the element Lutetium named? A: Paris
Q: Who wrote the music for Rule Britannia? A: Thomas Arne
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when the Battle of Waterloo was fought? A: Lord Liverpool
Q: For which king was Handel's Water Music composed? A: George I
Q: In which Welsh town is the Royal Mint situated? A: Llantrisant
Q: "Which 1942 film features the line ""Play it Sam, play 'As time goes by'""?" A: Casablanca
Q: Which 1939 film features the line 'Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn'? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: Who designed the Bridgewater Canal, opened in 1761? A: James Brindley
Q: Who designed the Menai Suspension Bridge, completed in 1826? A: Thomas Telford
Q: What is the main constituent of pewter? A: Tin
Q: Who was defeated at the Battle of Sedgemoor in 1685? A: Duke of Monmouth
Q: Which great battle between the Greeks and Persians took place in 490BC? A: Battle of Marathon
Q: In which port did The Herald of Free Enterprise capsize in 1987? A: Zeebrugge
Q: What was the name of the VLCC tanker that split in two off the coast of Brittany in 1978? A: Amoco Cadiz
Q: What nationality was the World War 2 military leader General Sikorski? A: Polish
Q: What nationality was Che Guevara? A: Argentine
Q: Who founded the Samaritans in 1953? A: Chad Varah
Q: Which English football league team plays home matches at Edgeley Park? A: Stockport County FC
Q: In which county is Ascot? A: Berkshire
Q: What was the name of the 14 year old boy whom Winnie Mandela was cleared of killing? A: STOMPIE MOEKETSI
Q: Name the American TV detective played by Gene Barry who had a chauffeur-driven Rolls in a 1960s series? A: AMOS BURKE
Q: "In the comic-strip ""Batman and Robin"" what is the Boy Wonder's real name?" A: DICK GRAYSON
Q: Which ship, during the Falklands conflict was nicknamed 'The Great White Whale'? A: CANBERRA
Q: Which is the only disease that has been eradicated by man? A: SMALLPOX
Q: Shirley Temple Black became US Ambassador to which African Country in 1974? A: GHANA
Q: Which word is used, familiarly, by an Australian for 'food'? A: TUCKER
Q: Give one of the forenames of 'Lenin'? A: VLADIMIR ILYICH
Q: In the film 'Jason and the Argonauts', who played the title role? A: TODD ARMSTRONG
Q: According to the Old Testament, who was the first person to have a 'navel'? A: CAIN
Q: Which was the first novel written by Charles Dickens? A: THE PICKWICK PAPERS
Q: In which 1950s TV series was the leading character's name Peter Brady? A: THE INVISIBLE MAN
Q: What name is given to a mixture of coffee, steamed milk and powdered chocolate? A: CAPPUCCINO
Q: What kind of creature's largest species is called a 'Goliath'? A: FROG
Q: Which American State has the name of a Red Indian nation as its capital? A: WYOMING
Q: According to Roman mythology, who was the father of the God Jupiter? A: SATURN
Q: What is the maximum number of missiles that a 'Polaris' submarine could carry? A: SIXTEEN
Q: Which artist painted 'The Birth of Venus'? A: SANDRO BOTTICELLI
Q: According to Greek mythology, who gave birth to the winged horse 'Pegasus'? A: MEDUSA
Q: Who starred in, wrote the screenplay and directed the film 'The Railway Children'? A: LIONEL JEFFRIES
Q: Who is the grandson of Sir Winston Churchill, who was also Minister for Food in the Thatcher cabinet? A: NICHOLAS SOAMES
Q: Who was the first black person to win a Wimbledon title? A: ALTHEA GIBSON
Q: In which town or city is Sha Tin airport? A: HONG KONG
Q: Which controversial rock star named his first two children `Moon Unit' and `Dweezil'? A: FRANK ZAPPA
Q: Who was the first black person to captain an England football team? A: PAUL INCE
Q: In pre-decimal currency, what was the sum total of a tanner, a `bob', a florin and a half-a-crown? A: 6/-
Q: Who is the central female character in the musical 'Cabaret'? A: SALLY BOWLES
Q: What kind of creature may be 'bottle-nosed'? A: DOLPHIN
Q: Which Roman orator was slain by Mark Anthony's soldiers in 43 B.C.? A: CICERO
Q: Which is the oldest inhabited walled city in the world? A: JERICHO
Q: The actress Laila Ward, who played Dr Who's assistant, married which of the Doctors? A: TOM BAKER
Q: What is removed in an odontectomy? A: TOOTH
Q: For what is the firm of Pratt and Whitney famous? A: AERO-ENGINES
Q: Who was the first British athlete to win the men's 100 metres Olympic title? A: HAROLD ABRAHAMS
Q: To which animal does the adjective 'leporine' refer? A: THE HARE
Q: The world's largest diamond at 530 carats is 'The Star of Africa'. In which of the Crown Jewels can it be found? A: THE SCEPTRE
Q: The original Orient Express train ran from Paris to which city? A: ISTANBUL
Q: Which Spanish word is also used in English slang for 'quickly' 'soon' or 'promptly'? A: PRONTO
Q: What is the name of the shop in London that boasts it is HM the Queen's Grocers? A: FORTNUM AND MASON
Q: Who is the ex-actress wife of disgraced former war minister John Profumo? A: VALERIE HOBSON
Q: As what does the German word 'Donner' translate into English? A: THUNDER
Q: By what name is the spear-fish better known? A: THE MARLIN
Q: Which is the largest seaport in Africa? A: DURBAN
Q: Which creature has the largest eye? A: GIANT SQUID
