Q: Who was the partner of Kid Curry in the 1970s western TV series? A: HANNIBAL HAYES
Q: What is the name of the hormone which is said to give males their aggressiveness? A: TESTOSTERONE
Q: Who is the Greek equivalent to the Phoenician goddess Astarte, and the Babylonian goddess Ishtar? A: APHRODITE
Q: In which country was there a terrorist leader called George Grivas? A: CYPRUS
Q: Pedro Ximenes is a grape usually used in the production of which drink? A: SHERRY .
Q: In the grounds of which building is the cannon called 'Mons 'Meg'? A: EDINBURGH CASTLE
Q: Which folk song has the refrain 'Parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme'? A: SCARBOROUGH FAIR
Q: In which Dickens' novel would you find a lawyer named Tulkinghorne? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: One end of the Pennine Way is 'The Nag's Head' in Edale, where is the other? A: KIRK YETHOLM
Q: In the Old testament who was the mother of Samuel? A: HANNAH
Q: The 2008 film The Curious Tale of Benjamin Button' was adapted from a short story by whom? A: F.SCOTT FITZGERALD
Q: Which sportsman married Elin Nordgren in 2004? A: TIGER WOODS
Q: The company Antofagasta is the world's largest producer of what? A: COPPER
Q: What was the last possession of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, lost to Islam in 1291? A: ACRE
Q: Xavier Rolet succeeded Clara Furse to a major job in which establishment during May 2009? A: LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE
Q: Which walking path runs for 42 miles from Osmotherley to Ravenscar? A: LYKE WAKE WALK
Q: In 1959, who led the 26th July revolutionary movement? A: FIDEL CASTRO
Q: In wine making, 'botrytis' is also known as what? A: NOBLE ROT
Q: Which sportsman did tennis,player Chris Evert marry in 2008? A: GREG NORMAN
Q: The Battle of Blenheim,1704, is described as the turning point in which war?' A: WAR of the SPANISH SUCCESSION
Q: In which Dickens novel would you find a lawyer named Jaggers? A: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Q: For which film did Sean Penn win an Oscar in 2009? A: MILK
Q: What name is given to the largest side of a right-angled triangle? A: HYPOTENUSE
Q: Landmarks such as Angel's Landing, Three Patriarchs and The Great White Throne are to be found in which American National Park? ' A: ZION
Q: Which defence structures, originally against Napoleon, were inspired by the Corsican original? A: MARTELLO TOWERS
Q: In the folk song 'All Around My Hat' what will the singer have arranged round the hat? A: The GREEN WILLOW
Q: In November 2008, Madelin Payne Dunham died aged 86. Who is her famous grandson? A: BARACK OBAMA
Q: Whose signature tune was 'One O'clock Jump'? A: COUNT BASIE
Q: In the play 'King Lear, what is the name of the youngest daughter of the king? A: CORDELIA
Q: How is Laura Hollins better known in the world of modelling? A: AGYNESS DEYN
Q: Forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan appears in the novels of which crime-writer? A: KATHY REICHS
Q: Which city, whose name means 'Southern Capital', was the capital of China before Beijing became the capital in 1949? A: NANKING
Q: Give another name for halite, the mineral form of sodium chloride. A: ROCK SALT
Q: Fescue and Yorkshire fog are types of what? A: GRASSES
Q: In USA, what do they call the silencer of a car? A: MUFFLER
Q: 'Night of the Hunter'(1955),was the only film directed by which famous actor? A: CHARLES LAUGHTON
Q: Which group won the Mercury Prize in 2008 for their album 'The Seldom Seen Kid'? A: ELBOW
Q: Before Kabul, what was the capital city of Afghanistan? A: KANDAHAR
Q: Which Summer Olympics host nation failed to win a gold medal? A: CANADA
Q: Apart from being Groundhog Day in USA, what Christian festival is observed on.February 2nd? A: CANDLEMAS
Q: 'Barwick Green' is the signature tune for which radio programme? A: THE ARCHERS
Q: Who was the landlord of 'The Spyglass Inn' at the beginning of 'Treasure Island'? A: LONG JOHN SILVER
Q: Which film was the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood in 1971? A: PLAY MISTY FOR ME
Q: Who wrote the Manfred Man hit 'The Mighty Quinn'? A: BOB DYLAN
Q: The phenomenon known as Baily's Beads occurs during which event? A: SOLAR ECLIPSE
Q: Element 94, first synthesized in 1940, was given what name? A: PLUTONIUM
Q: Alecia Moore sings under what name? A: PINK
Q: Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley appears in novels by whom? A: ELIZABETH GEORGE
Q: What kind of creature is a 'sugar glider? A: POSSUM
Q: Who played Flash Gordon in the 1936 film of that title? A: Buster Crabbe
Q: A white mark spread over the forehead, and sometimes the face, of a horse is called what? A: A blaze
Q: What name is given to the military code of Japanese samurai? A: Bushido
Q: With which art form do you associate Ansel Adams and Robert Mapplethorpe? A: Photography
Q: How many minims make one breve? A: Four
Q: From which wood are castanets traditionally made? A: Chestnut
Q: What is a Stiffkey (or Stewkey) Blue? A: A type of cockle
Q: Who hid in the Boscobel Oak? A: Charles II
Q: From which Cole Porter musical do the songs Wunderbar and Too Darn Hot come? A: Kiss Me Kate
Q: In which 1974 blockbuster movie did O J Simpson play a security guard? A: The Towering Inferno
Q: Who helped Theseus escape from the Labyrinth? A: Ariadne
Q: The island of Rapa Nui is better known as what? A: Easter Island
Q: Who supposedly bought the Grail to Britain and founded Glastonbury Abbey? A: St Joseph of Arimathea
Q: In which decade of the nineteenth century were both Lancashire and Yorkshire County Cricket Clubs formed? A: The 1860's
Q: Near which village in Lincolnshire is the Royal Air Force College? A: Cranwell
Q: What is the name of the spicy, curry-flavoured soup the name of which when translated from Tamil means 'pepper water'? A: Mulligatawny
Q: What collective noun is used to denominate a group of finches or hummingbirds? A: A charm
Q: Which Cole Porter musical includes the songs True Love and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? A: High Society
Q: What is the collective noun for geese in flight? A: A skein
Q: In which piste sport did Mussolini, Oswald Mosley, Juan Peron and Himmler all participate -(not necessarily with each other!)? A: Fencing
Q: Images of which east coast town have become widely known through the photographs of Frank Meadow Sutcliffe (1853-1941)? A: Whitby
Q: Where in the UK was the Mars Bar invented? A: Slough
Q: Who was Muffin the Mule's human sidekick on TV in the 1950s? A: Annette Mills
Q: In which TV establishment were Miss Gatsby and Miss 'Tibbs residents? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: How many syllables are there in a traditional Japanese 'haiku? A: Seventeen
Q: What temperature is the same on both Celsius and Fahrenheit scales? A: -40°
Q: "Who said ""I hate nobody except Hitler - and that is professional'?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: Who wrote a series of novels which all had 'Rabbit' in the title? A: John Updike
Q: Who is the patron saint of grocers? A: St Michael
Q: Atlas, Imperial and Elephant are all what? A: Paper sizes
Q: In which county do Woodforde's brew Nelson's Revenge? A: Norfolk
Q: The Simon and Garfunkel song Mrs Robinson makes reference to which famous American sportsman? A: Joe Di Maggio
Q: From which Shakespeare play does the line 'Now is the winter of our discontent' come? A: Richard III
Q: In which Lincolnshire town did the BBC film Middlemarch in the early 1990s? A: Stamford
Q: What name is given to the Japanese art of paper-folding? A: Origami
Q: What was the name of the Cuban dictator overthrown by Fidel Castro? A: (Fulgencio) Batista
Q: Who played General George Custer in the film They Died with Their Boots On? A: Errol Flynn
Q: Which French town is famous for its mustard? A: Dijon
Q: How many red balls are on the table at the start of a game of snooker? A: Fifteen
Q: Which office was Nicolas Breakspear the first Englishman to hold, in the twelfth century? A: Pope
Q: What was the surname of the London gangster known as Jack The Hat? A: McVitie
Q: Which once-successful hosiery company was set up by Asil Nadir? A: Polly Peck
Q: Which part did Honor Blackman play in the film Goldfinger? A: Pussy Galore
Q: In which Irish park was Lord Cavendish assassinated in 1882? A: Phoenix
Q: On which scale is the intensity of an earthquake measured? A: Mercalli Scale
Q: St Peter Port is the capital of which island? A: Guernsey
Q: Which local group included a track called `99% Of Gargoyles Look Like Bob Todd' on their 1985 album 'Back in the DHSS'? A: Half Man Half Biscuit
Q: I am the egg man' is a line from which Beatles song? A: I am the Walrus
Q: What, according to popular saying, is 'the thief of time? A: Procrastination
Q: What is the capital city of Azerbaijan? A: Baku
Q: At what battle was the Mexican general Santa Anna defeated by Sam Houston in 1836? A: San Jacinto
Q: "Who famously said in 1916 ""History is more or less bunk""?" A: Henry Ford
Q: In the human body what name is given collectively to the five long bones of the foot? A: Metatarsus
Q: What name is given to the vertical bars dividing the panes of a window? A: Mullions
Q: Who painted the Rake's Progress series of paintings, in 1721/1723? A: William Hogarth
Q: What name is given to the arc of brilliant points seen round the moon after a total solar eclipse, named after an English astronomer? A: Bailey's Beads
Q: At what battle did Hannibal defeat the Romans in 216 BC? A: Cannae
Q: What nationality are the rock band The Cardigans? A: Swedish
Q: "Who painted ""A Bar at the Folies Bergeres"" in 1882?" A: Edouard Manet
Q: Who was the president of the USA at the time of the Wall Street Crash? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: Tommy Lee, who was formerly married to Pamela Anderson, was the drummer in which successful 1980s heavy metal band? A: Motley Crue
Q: In Roman mythology who was the god of gates, doors and entrances? A: Janu
Q: What was the last battle fought on English soil? A: Sedgemoor
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Madame Bovary""?" A: Gustave Flaubert
Q: Declan MacManus is the real name of which rock star? A: Elvis Costello
Q: In the Shakespeare play, who is Othello's trusted advisor, husband of Emilia? A: Iago
Q: In cricket what is a ball called that is bowled by a left-handed bowler to a right-handed batsman that spins from off to leg? A: A Chinaman
Q: What is the capital of Madagascar? A: Antananarivo
Q: Who invented the vacuum flask, in 1892? A: James Dewar
Q: What Spanish name is given to a spicy pork sausage seasoned with garlic? A: Chorizo
Q: With which planet do you associate Cassini's Division? A: Saturn
Q: What was the Beatles' first chart single success, released in October 1962? A: Love Me Do
Q: Which American actor starred in the film 'The Magnificent Seven' and on TV in 'The Man From Uncle'? A: Robert Vaughn
Q: Which animal derives its name from the native word for `no drink'? A: Koala
Q: "Which actor's autobiography is entitled ""Blessings in Disguise""?" A: Alec Guinness
Q: What name is given to the physiological condition where abducted hostages bond to their captors? A: Stockholm Syndrome
Q: Who was the first person to be officially called British Prime Minister, 5 days after he took office in 1905? A: Henry Campbell Bannerman
Q: Who provided the voice for the Genie of the Lamp in the 1992 Disney film 'Aladdin'? A: Robin Williams
Q: What is divided into 114 suras? A: The Koran
Q: What type of military weapon was the MGR-1, known as Honest John? A: A (surface to surface) Missile
Q: What type of creature is a skink? A: A lizard
Q: Who was the Greek God of fire? A: Hephaestus
Q: What is the highest peak on Dartmoor? A: (High) Willhays
Q: What is the main ingredient of Laverbread? A: Seaweed
Q: What is the young of a pigeon called? A: Squab
Q: From which county does Troika pottery originate? A: Cornwall
Q: Who directed the 1954 film 'On the Waterfront'? A: Elia Kazan
Q: Adjutant birds are members of which family of birds? A: Storks
Q: Who was the first presenter of 'Ready Steady Go', in August 1963? A: Keith Fordyce
Q: Who wrote the 1964 play 'Entertaining Mr Sloane'? A: Joe Orton
Q: Rafael Trujillo was dictator of which state for nearly 20 years? A: Dominican Republic
Q: Which cricket team play home matches at the Riverside Ground? A: Durham
Q: "Which other composer said of Wagner's music that it had ""lovely moments but awful quarters of an hour""?" A: Rossini
Q: What was the last Inspector Morse novel called? It was published in 1999. A: The Remorseful Day
Q: Which poet wrote The Wild Swans at Coole, in 1917? A: W B Yeats
Q: The Swaythling Cup is competed for in which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: Of which country is Helen Clark Prime Minister? A: New Zealand
Q: Which singer married Bobby Brown in 1992? A: Whitney Houston
Q: Who in 1986 wrote the novel 'Wolves Eat Dogs'? A: Martin Cruz Smith
Q: What was the name of the squire in Treasure Island? A: Trelawney
Q: In which Dickens novel would you find the Barnacle family? A: Little Dorrit
Q: In which country is Cape Agulhas? A: South Africa
Q: What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'Deo Volente'? A: God Willing
Q: In a suit of armour which part of the body was protected by the 'poleyn'? A: The Knee
Q: In terms of population, Cordoba is the second largest city of which country? A: Argentina
Q: Which UK pop group was formed in London in 1989 by the singer Damon Albarn? A: Blur
Q: Who directed the first two Batman films that starred Michael Keaton? A: Tim Burton
Q: What was Dylan Thomas's middle name? A: Marlais
Q: What is the capital of Burundi? A: Bujumbura
Q: Which chemical compound is responsible for the 'furring' on the inside of a kettle? A: Calcium Carbonate
Q: Which group had a No. 1 hit in 2001 with their version of Billy Joel's' Uptown Girl'? A: Westlife
Q: For which film did Oliver Stone win his second Best Director Oscar in 1989? A: Born on the Fourth of July
Q: What is the northernmost point of mainland Australia? A: Cape York
Q: Which British author wrote under the pseudonym Peter Porcupine? A: William Cobbett
Q: In which country is Cape Matapan? A: Greece
Q: In which Dickens novel would you find Dick Swiveller? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: In a suit of armour which part of the body was protected by the rerebrace? A: (The upper) Arm
Q: What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'Omnia Vincit Amor'? A: Love Conquers All
Q: Natal is a city in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the name of the Welsh captain in Henry V? A: Fluellen
Q: Who directed the first Superman film in 1978 starring Christoper Reeve? A: Richard Donner
Q: Which UK pop group was formed in Sheffield in 1978 by singer Jarvis Cocker? A: Pulp
Q: In which British city would you find Barlinnie prison? A: Glasgow
Q: Which horse won the 2009 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Kauto Star
Q: What is the name of the holy book of the Sikh religion? A: Adi Granth
Q: The Galapagos Islands are a province of which South American country? A: Ecuador
Q: Which English king founded the Order of the Garter in 1348? A: Edward III
Q: Which ancient site was excavated by Sir Arthur Evans from 1900 to 1925? A: Knossos
Q: What is the capital of Gambia? A: Banjul
Q: Which gas is produced by the action of water on Calcium Carbide? A: Acetylene
Q: For which 2004 film did Clint Eastwood win his second Best Director Oscar? A: Million Dollar Baby
Q: What is the southernmost point of India? A: Cape Comorin
Q: Which British author wrote the novel 'The Antiquary' in 1816? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: Who became the drummer of The Who after the death of Keith Moon in 1978? A: Kenny Jones
Q: What was the first novel in the Inspector Morse series of novels, published in 1975? A: Last Bus to Woodstock
Q: 'Life is like a box of chocolates' is a quote from which 1994 film? A: Forrest Gump
Q: Which famous playwright used the pseudonym 'Como di Bassetto' when he worked as a music critic? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: The Orkney Islands are located in which Shipping Forecast Area? A: Fair Isle
Q: In the Simpsons cartoon series what is the first name of Principal Skinner'? A: Seymour
Q: Whose right to the English throne did Lady Jane Grey challenge in 1553? A: Mary I
Q: What word meaning doorway in Punjabi is the name of a Sikh place of worship? A: Gurdwara
Q: Easter Island (Rapa Nui) belongs to which country? A: Chile
Q: Macaroni, Chinstrap and Rockhopper are all species of which bird? A: Penguins
Q: Which Prime Minister was once the MP for Bootle from 1911 until 1918? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: Which English king founded Eton College in 1440? A: Henry VI
Q: Who replaced Brian Jones in the Rolling Stones in 1969? A: Mick Taylor
Q: 'I'll have what she's having' is a quote from which 1989 film? A: When Harry Met Sally
Q: What was the last novel in the Inspector Rebus series of novels, published in 2007? A: Exit Music
Q: The Farne Islands are located in which Shipping Forecast Area? A: Tyne
Q: Which English king used the pseudonym Ralph Robinson when writing to gardening magazines? A: George III
Q: Whose right to the English throne did the Duke of Monmouth challenge in 1685? A: James II
Q: In the Simpsons cartoon series what is the name of Police Chief Wiggum's son? A: Ralph
Q: Which team won the 2009 Superbowl? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: On which racecourse does the British flat racing season begin and end? A: Doncaster
Q: Bute House is the official residence of which politician? A: First Minister of Scotland
Q: What did the Romans call the River Severn? A: Sabrina
Q: In which TV 'soap' did the character Charlene Mitchell appear? A: Neighbours
Q: What name is given to the Japanese dish in which fish or vegetables are deep fried in butter? A: Tempura
Q: In the book 'Tom Brown's Schooldays', what is the name of the bully? A: Flashman
Q: Which city has sports teams known as the 'Maple Leafs' and the 'Blue Jays'? A: Toronto
Q: In Greek mythology, what sort of creature was Polyphemus? A: Cyclops
Q: The fortified wine 'Marsala' is produced on which island? A: Sicily
Q: In mathematics, what is a quarter of a circle called? (an area bounded by two radii at right angles to each other) A: A Quadrant
Q: With more than 60,000 of them, which country is known as 'the Country of a Thousand Lakes'? A: Finland
Q: Which comedian starred in the 1961 film 'The Rebel'? A: Tony Hancock
Q: The merger of British Steel and its Dutch equivalent formed which company? A: Corus
Q: Which Russian composer was also a professor of chemistry? A: Borodin
Q: In which TV 'soap' did the character Benny Hawkins appear? A: Crossroads
Q: In the Charles Dickens book 'Oliver Twist', who is the bully who kidnaps Oliver? A: Bill Sykes
Q: The trademark of which famous Austrian chocolate cake was registered by a Viennese hotel in the 1870's? A: Sachertorte
Q: Which European capital city has districts called Alfama and Baixa? A: Lisbon
Q: In a circle what name is given to a part of the circle bounded by a chord and an arc? A: Segment
Q: The name Malmsey is now used almost exclusively for a sweet variety of wine from the Malvasia grape produced on which island? A: Madeira
Q: The paradise `Shangri La' was created by James Hilton in which book? A: Lost Horizon
Q: Throughout his political career Enoch Powell held only one ministerial post, which was it? A: Minister of Health
Q: Which Greek heroine was hatched from an egg? A: Helen of Troy
Q: In 2005, two different designs were used on the reverse of the 50p coin to commemorate the 150 anniversary of the introduction of what? A: Victoria Cross
Q: The song 'Sunrise, Sunset' appears in which musical? A: Fiddler on the Roof
Q: Who was the commander of the British Battle Cruiser Squadron at the Battle of Jutland? A: (Admiral) Beatty
Q: For what does the P stand in the computer acronym 'pdf'? A: Portable
Q: Which record producer of the early 1960s is the subject of the film 'Telstar'? A: Joe Meek
Q: Which city has sports teams known as the 'Starters; the 'Pirates' and the 'Penguins'? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Which European capital city has districts called Ottakring and Leopoldstadt? A: Vienna
Q: Which first- class county cricket club has its HQ at the Rose Bowl? A: Hampshire
Q: The Costa Smeralda is on the northeast coast of which island? A: Sardinia
Q: Which book by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle related the story of Professor Challenger's explorations? A: The Lost World
Q: Enoch Powell's political career ended in 1987 as a member of which party? A: Ulster Unionist
Q: The company 'Bloodaxe' publishes what sort of books? A: Poetry
Q: Tamara Mellon co-founded which famous shoe company? A: Jimmy Choo
Q: Lyman Frank were the forenames of the American author of which very famous children's book? A: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
Q: Which Russian composer was also a naval officer? A: Rimsky-Korsakov
Q: John Aldridge was the first player to miss a penalty in an FA Cup final at Wembley, which Tottenham Hotspur player was the second? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Name the singer who, along with Vince Clarke, made up the pop group Erasure? A: Andy Bell
Q: Pristina is the capital of which European state? A: Kosovo
Q: What was the name of Gene Autry's famous horse? A: Champion
Q: In which town or city is the University of the West of England? A: Bristol
Q: Which first- class county cricket club has its HQ at the Riverside Ground? A: Durham
Q: I Who commanded the German fleet at the Battle of Jutland? A: (Admiral) Scheer
Q: Who was appointed Poet Laureate in 2009? A: Carol Ann Duffy
Q: Asmara is the capital of which African country? A: Eritrea
Q: In which town or city is the University of Central Lancashire? A: Preston
Q: Which philosopher wrote 'The Flies' and 'Being and Nothingness' in 1943? A: Jean-Paul Sartre
Q: Caroline Lucas is the leader of which political party in the UK? A: Green Party
Q: Thomas Lanier were the forenames of which very famous American playwright? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: In which shipyard was Nelson's flagship, HMS Victory, built? A: Chatham
Q: Who was Home Secretary at the time of the Sidney Street Siege? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Who played the male lead in the film 'Breakfast at Tiffany's'? A: George Peppard
Q: From which English football club did Rupert Lowe resign when the club was placed into administration in 2009? A: SOUTHAMPTON
Q: Who assassinated Arch duke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914? A: GAVRILO PRINCIP
Q: The kings of which country have alternatively been called Christian or Frederick since 1513? A: DENMARK
Q: Mary Lennox is the central character of which 1911 Frances Hodgson Burnett novel? A: THE SECRET GARDEN
Q: Who won the 1962 Nobel Prize for Medicine for their discovery of the structure of DNA along with James Watson and Maurice Wilkins? A: FRANCIS CRICK
Q: Chablis is the northernmost district of which French wine growing region? A: BURGUNDY
Q: On which novel was the 1995 Clueless loosely based? A: EMMA
Q: What is the capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu? A: CHENNAI
Q: Who is credited with inventing the World Wide Web? A: TIM BERNERS-LEE
Q: "What was the forename of F Scott Fitzgerald's ""Great Gatsby""?" A: JAY
Q: "The India Pale Ale ""Old Empire"" is brewed by which company?" A: MARSTONS
Q: In which city is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development located? A: LONDON
Q: In Greek Mythology who was the messenger of the gods? A: HERMES
Q: In the Old Testament which son of Isaac is also known as Israel? A: JACOB
Q: What is the first name of Andrew Murray's tennis playing brother? A: JAMIE
Q: What was the nickname of Queen Joan the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain? A: MAD
Q: Who was the first UK winner of the Eurovision Song Contest? A: SANDIE SHAW
Q: "The painting ""the Girl with the Pearl Earring"" is by which artist?" A: VERMEER
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""The Wide Sargasso Sea"" inspired by the novel Jane Eyre?" A: JEAN RHYS
Q: Who was Prime Minister of South Africa from 1958 to 1966? A: HENDRIK VERWOERD
Q: """Love Changes Everything"" is the best known song from which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical?" A: ASPECTS OF LOVE
Q: Alfred Sisley was an exponent of which school of painting? A: IMPRESSIONISM
Q: "Who wrote the political treatise called ""The Prince"" in 1513?" A: NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI
Q: Which British newspaper was mainly responsible for exposing the MP's expenses scandal in 2009? A: THE DAILY TELEGRAPH
Q: "The ""Generalife"" is a villa with gardens in the grounds of which famous tourist attraction in Spain?" A: THE ALHAMBRA
Q: What is the nationality of golfer Vijay Singh? A: FIJIAN
Q: "What is the name of the ""Plum Pudding"" shaped island in the outer Firth of Clyde where granite is quarried to make curling stones?" A: AILSA CRAIG
Q: Which former Tory Cabinet Minister is reported to have put in an expenses claim for cleaning his moat in the recent scandal? A: DOUGLAS HOGG
Q: "In which country did the dance ""The Czardas"" originate?" A: HUNGARY
Q: During the 2008 Proms series of concerts one was based upon the music written by composer Murray Gold for which TV series? A: DR WHO
Q: The first Olympic Games in three decades without a boycott of some sort was held in 1992 in which city? A: BARCELONA
Q: "Who as at March 2009 chairs the Radio 4 programme ""The News Quiz""?" A: SANDI TOKSVIG
Q: "Who composed ""The Karelia Suite""?" A: SIBELIUS
Q: "Who had a number 1 hit in 1972 with ""Mouldy Old Dough""?" A: LIEUTENANT PIGEON
Q: "Who wrote the novella ""Breakfast at Tiffany's""?" A: TRUMAN CAPOTE
Q: As at March 2009 who is Prime Minister of Australia? A: KEVIN RUDD
Q: To which religious group did the victims of the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre belong? A: HUGUENOTS
Q: Of which African mountain range is Jbel Toubkal the highest peak? A: THE ATLAS MOUNTAINS
Q: "Which war poet wrote ""Dulce Et Decorum Est""?" A: WILFRED OWEN
Q: With which musical instrument is Theolonius Monk best associated? A: PIANO
Q: "Which product was advertised in 1970's using the song ""I'd like to teach the world to sing""?" A: COCA COLA
Q: "Which country is nicknamed ""The Land of The Thousand Lakes""?" A: FINLAND
Q: Which English king was married to Charlotte of Mecklenberg? A: GEORGE III
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""The Other Boleyn Girl""?" A: PHILIPPA GREGORY
Q: "Which country refused to take part in the 1982 Eurovision Song Contest on the grounds that ""It was a monument to drivel"" - sore losers?" A: FRANCE
Q: In which group of islands are Stronsay, Hoy and South Ronaldsay? A: Orkneys
Q: In which English town or city is the Special Air Service (SAS) based? A: Hereford
Q: What is the first line of the poem 'Home thoughts from Abroad' by Robert Browning? A: Oh, to be in England
Q: Which rugby league player was nicknamed 'Chariots'? A: Martin Offiah
Q: What name is given to two vowel-sounds pronounced as one syllable? A: Diphthong
Q: Divine Comedy performed the title song to which very popular TV comedy series? A: Father Ted
Q: Which European country's flag is the oldest in the world? A: Denmark
Q: Horse racing trainers Evan, Ian, Stuart and Nick, share which surname with jockeys Darren and Christian? A: Williams
Q: Which ancient trackway runs from St Albans to Canterbury? A: Watling Street
Q: Which cologne, created in 1792, was named after the street number of the building in Glockengasse, Cologne where it was created? A: 4711
Q: The Brooklyn Bridge crosses which river? A: The East River
Q: Carrots are rich in which vitamin? A: A
Q: In which group of islands are St Mary's, St Agnes and Bryher? A: Scillies
Q: What name is given to a number sequence in which each term is the sum of the two preceding terms? A: Fibonacci
Q: In `Winnie the Pooh', who lived in the 'House at Pooh Corner'? A: Eeyore
Q: Which chocolate selection was launched in 1938 and is famous for the 'say it with ' advertising campaign? A: Cadbury's Roses
Q: In which English port is the Special Boat Service (SBS) based? A: Poole
Q: The Alabama Three performed 'Woke Up This Morning', the title song to which very popular crime series? A: The Sopranos
Q: In which Ealing film comedy did Dennis Price kill off various members of the D'Ascoyne family? A: Kind Hearts and Coronets
Q: Name either of the other two goddesses who were beaten by Aphrodite in the 'Judgement of Paris'? A: Hera, Athena
Q: Which 20th century British Prime Minister was born in Broadstairs, Kent? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who was Les Dennis's partner on 'The Laughter Show' before his early death in 1986? A: Dustin Gee
Q: In which year was the 20p coin introduced and the word 'new' dropped from all newly minted coins in Britain? A: 1982
Q: On which US ship was the World War 2 peace treaty with Japan signed? A: USS Missouri
Q: Which Swedish tennis player won the men's singles title at Wimbledon from 1988 to 1990? A: Stefan Edberg
Q: In meteorology what name is given to the technique of using substances such as silver iodide to increase precipitation? A: Cloud Seeding
Q: What name is given to the Sunday at the start of Holy Week? A: Palm Sunday
Q: Rubies and sapphires are varieties of which mineral? A: Corundum
Q: What name is given to the mark placed over the second of two adjacent vowels to show that each is pronounced separately? A: Diaeresis
Q: Milk and sunlight are good sources of which vitamin? A: D
Q: Hans Wilhelm Langsdorf was captain of which German Battleship in World War 2? A: Graf Spee
Q: In which daily newspaper does the political cartoon 'Nature Notes' appear? A: Times
Q: In the Bible, who was the third son of Noah along with Ham and Shem? A: Japheth
Q: Which Blue Peter presenter was a Chief Scout? A: Peter Duncan
Q: The Battle of Blenheim (1704) took place in which war? A: Spanish Succession
Q: Which group has reformed after 25 years but without founder member, songwriter and keyboard player Jerry Dammers? A: The Specials
Q: When Gracie Fields sang the words: `...you're more than the whole world to me', to whom was she referring? A: Sally
Q: In which city is the HQ of Volkswagen cars? A: Wolfsburg
Q: Jockeys Richard, Jimmy, Paul and Amir, share which surname with trainers Micky and John? A: Quinn
Q: What was the name of the English logician whose name is given to diagrams of mathematical sets, the areas intersecting where they have elements in common? A: (John) Venn
Q: Les Dennis's first TV appearances were as a stooge on which comedian's regular show? A: Russ Abbot
Q: Which popular chocolates are named after a play by JM Barrie? A: Quality Street
Q: Emerald and aquamarine are varieties of which mineral? A: Beryl
Q: Which Swedish tennis player never won the men's singles title at Wimbledon, but during the 1980s won the US Open once, the French Open twice and the Australian Open three times? A: Mats Wilander
Q: Graham McPherson was lead singer of a famous 1980s pop group, by what name is he usually known? A: Suggs
Q: Which Ealing comedy featured Alec Guinness, Alfie Bass, Sid James and Stanley Holloway as a gang of crooks? A: The Lavender Hill Mob
Q: What name is given to the day 40 days after Easter? A: Ascension Day
Q: Who, in the Bible, was the twin brother of Jacob? A: Esau
Q: Who wrote the Billy Bunter books? A: Frank Richards
Q: Which famous British establishment was founded in 1694 by William Patterson? A: Bank of England
Q: "Which 19th century English poet wrote ""Home Thoughts from Abroad""?" A: Robert Browning
Q: "In Greek mythology, which character carried a rod called ""a caduceus""? (kad-oo-see-us)" A: Hermes
Q: "Which British actress (and DBE) wrote an autobiography, entitled ""No Turn Unstoned""?" A: Diana Rigg
Q: "Which metal is mainly derived from the ore ""haematite""?" A: Iron
Q: "In which US state did ""The Battle of the Little Big Horn"" take place?" A: Montana
Q: "Which car manufacturer makes a model called the ""Tiguan""?" A: Volkswagen
Q: Who is the present Master of the Queen's Music? A: Sir Peter Maxwell Davies
Q: Who is the present Poet Laureate? A: Carol Ann Duffy
Q: Which metal is mainly obtained from the ore cassiterite? A: Tin
Q: "From which English writer did Ernest Hemingway get the title for his book ""For Whom the Bell Tolls""?" A: John Donne
Q: Which car manufacturer makes a model called the Sportage? A: Kia
Q: """Unreliable Memoirs"" is part of an autobiography of which well known writer and broadcaster?" A: Clive James
Q: In Greek mythology which king was the father of Ariadne? A: Minos
Q: The Man that Got Away A: A Star is Born
Q: There's No Business like Show Business A: Annie Get Your Gun
Q: Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend A: Gentlemen Prefer
Q: Who was the first female presenter of BBCTV's Grandstand sports programme? A: Helen Rollason
Q: Rosa Parkes' refusal to give up her bus seat to a white passenger caused a riot in which US city in 1955? A: Montgomery
Q: "In 2008, Kobi Bryant was voted ""Most Valuable Player"" in which US sport?" A: Basketball
Q: The Thar Desert is MAINLY in which country? A: India
Q: Hunker Munker and Tom Thumb are a married couple of mice created by which author? A: Beatrix Potter
Q: Which artist painted the portrait of French revolutionary Marat being murdered in his bath ? A: David
Q: To within a year, when were proceedings of the House of Commons first regularly broadcast on TV? A: 1989
Q: "Who was responsible for the creation of the decoration the ""Legion D'Honneur""?" A: Napoleon
Q: On which London thoroughfare would you find the Savoy Hotel, Charing Cross Station and the Adelphi Theatre? A: The Strand
Q: """The only true wisdom is knowing you know nothing"" is a quote by which famous Greek philosopher?" A: Socrates
Q: What was the first sports event shown in colour on BBC TV? A: Wimbledon
Q: On which London thoroughfare would you find the Royal Academy, Apsley House and Fortnum and Masons? A: Piccadilly
Q: "Who was responsible for the creation of the decoration the ""Purple Heart""?" A: George Washington
Q: Federico Fellini Airport serves which Italian holiday resort? A: Rimini
Q: "In 1902 which British car manufacturer invented ""disc brakes""?" A: Lanchester
Q: In 1915 which Dutch engineer perfected the interrupter, which allowed a machine gun to fire safely through the propellers of an aircraft? A: Fokker
Q: Which specific instrument did US jazz musician Bix Beiderbecke play? A: Cornet
Q: The Kalahari Desert lies mainly in which country? A: Botswana
Q: Lancelot Gobbo is a servant of which major Shakespearean character? A: Shylock
Q: For which specific type of painting was Nicholas Hilliard famous? A: Miniatures
Q: "Who succeeded the late David Vine as presenter of BBC's Ski Sunday""?" A: Hazel Irvine
Q: Which US president is currently featured on the $5 bill? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which internationally known jazz singer and anti-apartheid campaigner died in November 2008? A: Miriam Makeba
Q: Dayron Robles of Cuba broke which athletic world record in 2008? A: 110m Hurdles
Q: Which famous European Cathedral took 632 years to compete? A: Cologne
Q: What decimal number is represented by the binary 101 (read as one zero one)? A: Five
Q: "In the TV comedy ""Dad's Army"", what was the name of Captain Mainwaring's wife?" A: Elizabeth
Q: Which London station was designed by Brunel and completed in 1854? A: Paddington
Q: Which Roman road ran from London to York via Lincoln? A: Ermine Street
Q: Where is the largest Gothic cathedral in England? A: York
Q: Which American terrorist group of the early 1970s took its name from a line in a bob Dylan song? A: The Weathermen
Q: "Who wrote ""Little Lord Fauntleroy"" in 1885?" A: Francis Hodgson Burnett
Q: In a film of the 1950s, what was the name of the car in which Kenneth Moore and Dinah Sheridan travelled from London to Brighton? A: Genevieve
Q: Which football league club plays home games at the London Road Stadium? A: Peterborough United FC
Q: In which castle was Mary Queen of Scots executed in 1587? A: Fotheringay
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Tess of the D'Urbervilles"" in 1891?" A: Thomas Hardy
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, when did the Queen of Hearts make some tarts? A: (All on a) summer's day
Q: Who is the current holder (May 2009) of the Olympic and World record for the 100 metres at 9.69 seconds? A: Usain Bolt
Q: "Whose words are used in the 1916 hymn ""Jerusalem"" composed by Hubert Parry?" A: William Blake
Q: From which country does Red Stripe lager originate? A: Jamaica
Q: In London, HMS Belfast is moored between Tower Bridge and which other bridge? A: London Bridge
Q: In which of Grimm's fairy tales does the wicked witch end up in the oven? A: Hansel and Gretel
Q: The city of Cleveland in the USA stands on which of the Great Lakes? A: Lake Erie
Q: Which common fish belongs to the family gadidae? A: Cod
Q: In the nursery rhyme, whose wife 'could eat no lean'? A: Jack Sprat
Q: Which Indian city was devastated by a toxic gas escape in 1984? A: Bhopal
Q: Which orchestral instrument is the smallest member of the flute family? A: Piccolo
Q: "In which card game can one score ""one for his knob""?" A: Cribbage
Q: Which French World War I general later headed the pro-German Vichy Government in World War II from 1940-1944? A: Henri Petain
Q: What is the name of the new British steam locomotive No. 60163 built in Darlington and the first mainline locomotive built in the UK since 'Evening Star'? A: Tornado
Q: Which Roman road connected Lincoln and Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: In which cathedral is King John buried? A: Worcester
Q: Which rock group was founded by Lou Reed and John Cale? A: Velvet Underground
Q: "Which artist's name means in translation ""Little Dyer""?" A: Tintoretto
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of Peace? A: Irene
Q: In which book of 1920 did Hercule Poirot make his first appearance? A: The Mysterious Affair at Styles
Q: Which football league club play home games at Griffin Park? A: Brentford FC
Q: "Which English king was known as ""Longshanks"" or ""The Hammer of the Scots""?" A: Edward I
Q: What is the small independent state in the High Pyrenees, between Spain and France? A: Andorra
Q: "Who wrote the play ""A Streetcar Named Desire"" in 1947?" A: Tennessee Williams
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who or what ran away with spoon? A: The dish
Q: "Whose first symphony of 1917 is known as ""The Classical Symphony""?" A: Sergei Prokofiev
Q: "a Which 1750 poem begins ""The curfew tolls the knell of parting day""?" A: Gray's Elegy
Q: "What kind of gemstone is the ""Star of India""?" A: (Blue Star) Sapphire
Q: From which country does Stein lager originate? A: New Zealand
Q: Which pedestrian bridge in London connects the Tate Modern Art Gallery and St Paul's Cathedral? A: Millennium Bridge
Q: Who was brought to trial in 1962 and convicted of being the A6 murderer? A: James Hanratty
Q: From which opera by Mascagni does the famous Easter Hymn come? A: Cavalleria Rusticana
Q: The Hoover Dam stands on which river? A: Colorado
Q: In the soap opera, The Colbys, which Hollywood legend played Jason Colby? A: Charlton Heston
Q: Which fish belong to the family anguillidae? A: Eels
Q: Ailsa Craig is a popular variety of which fruit? A: Tomato
Q: Which orchestral musical instrument had 46 or 47 strings? A: Concert harp
Q: Which Israeli seaport lies below Mount Carmel? A: Haifa
Q: "What is the ""Via Lactea"" of the night sky?" A: Milky Way
Q: "Which British king, born in 1769, was known as ""The Sailor King""?" A: William IV
Q: What is the capital of the Italian region of Liguria? A: GENOA
Q: Naples is the capital of which Italian region? A: CAMPANIA
Q: Sandringham House, the private residence of the monarch, is in which English county? A: NORFOLK
Q: Which Greek mathematician claimed that the earth was a sphere, revolving on its own axis? A: PYTHAGORAS
Q: Which Roman poet is most renowned for his poetry about love, seduction and adultery? A: OVID
Q: "What is the name of the butler in ""Upstairs Downstairs""?" A: MR HUDSON
Q: In fiction, at what address did housekeeper Mrs Hudson live? A: 221B BAKER STREET
Q: On which Scottish island is the town of Stornoway? A: LEWIS
Q: "Who wrote the operas 'The Queen of Sheba"" and ""Romeo and Juliet""?" A: CHARLES GOUNOD
Q: Into which body of water does the River Ganges flow? A: THE BAY OF BENGAL
Q: What was the name of the sea nymph who imprisoned Odysseus on her island for 7 years? A: CALYPSO
Q: In Norse mythology what name is given to the rainbow bridge that leads from the mortal realm to Asgard? A: BIFROST
Q: What is the name of the skin test used to determine susceptibility to diphtheria? A: THE SCHICK TEST
Q: In the drug type known as NSAID for what does the S stand? A: STEROIDAL
Q: "Which WW2 general was known as ""Blood and Guts""?" A: GENERAL PATTON
Q: Who was the allied Supreme Commander in Europe from 1944 onwards? A: DWIGHT D EISENHOWER
Q: How many years of marriage does a crystal anniversary represent? A: FIFTEEN
Q: Who was the first of the Lancastrian Kings? A: HENRY IV
Q: Which English King was born at Caenarvon Castle in 1284? A: EDWARD II
Q: The Habanero is a variety of which vegetable? A: CHILLI PEPPER
Q: In boxing what weight comes above Light Heavyweight? A: CRUISERWEIGHT
Q: In which year of the 1960s did Sandie Shaw have a number one hit with 'Puppet on a String' and Procol Harum with 'Whiter Shade of Pale'? A: 1967
Q: Who had a hit in 1961 with Poetry in Motion? A: JOHNNY TILLOTSON
Q: Which Roman emperor is known by a name which translates as 'Little Boots'? A: CALIGULA
Q: Who in 1938 invented the game of Scrabble (although he called it Criss-Crosswords)? A: ALFRED BUTTS
Q: "Which artist's last words, in 1851, were ""The sun is God""?" A: J M W TURNER
Q: Who, in the 2008 Beijing Olympics, was the first British swimmer to win 2 gold medals since 1908? A: REBECCA ADLINGTON
Q: "Who painted the ""Adoration of the Magi"" now in the Uffizi Gallery?" A: SANDRO BOTTICELLI
Q: Whose 9 metre high statue of a spider was acquired by Tate Modern in 2008? A: LOUISE BOURGEOIS
Q: Who was the last Englishman before Lewis Hamilton to win the Formula One World Championship? A: DAMON HILL
Q: Comedian Charles Springall (1925-2006) was better known by which name? A: CHARLIE DRAKE
Q: In the 2004 film of the same name who played the part of 'Vera Drake'? A: IMELDA STAUNTON
Q: Children's author Mrs Darrell Waters was better known under which name? A: ENID BLYTON
Q: Matter is thought to contain two classes of particles, Hadrons and which other? A: LEPTONS
Q: What physical fact was proven by Foucault's pendulum? A: THAT THE EARTH ROTATES
Q: Which war was ended by the Treaty of Westphalia? A: THE THIRTY YEAR WAR
Q: On which pipe of a set of bagpipes is the tune fingered? A: THE CHANTER
Q: The style of singing known as Fado comes from which European country? A: PORTUGAL
Q: "Who said ""I think, therefore I am""?" A: RENE DESCARTES
Q: In Greek mythology who was the Muse of Tragedy? A: MELPOMENE
Q: Which bird, seen in Britain in the summer, has varieties called Reed, Grasshopper and Willow? A: WARBLER
Q: Who, in legend, commanded the Greeks during the Trojan War? A: AGAMEMNON
Q: "What hardly ever happens in ""Hertford, Hereford and Hampshire""?" A: HURRICANES
Q: "Who wrote ""Mr Midshipman Easy""?" A: FREDERICK MARRYAT
Q: In which Canadian province is the nation's capital Ottawa? A: Ontario
Q: Which tree has the Latin name Salix? A: Willow
Q: Who starred in films as 'Crocodile Dundee'? A: Paul Hogan
Q: 'Kim', the 1901 novel by Rudyard Kipling, is about an Irish orphan named Kim O'Hara. Kim is short for which name? A: Kimball
Q: In which year was the suffix letter first used on British car registration plates? A: 1963
Q: Britannia Metal is composed mainly (93%) of which element? A: Tin
Q: On which river is the Kariba Dam? A: Zambezi
Q: Who has hosted a 'Comedy Roadshow' on BBC TV during 2009? A: Michael McIntyre
Q: Which car company make a model called the 'Yeti'? A: Skoda
Q: Which state surrounds the Australian Capital territory including the capital Canberra? A: New South Wales
Q: Name the writer known as 'Denmark's most famous son', his birthplace in Odense is now a museum? A: Hans Christian Anderson
Q: Who played the part of Michael Douglas's wife in the film 'Fatal Attraction'? A: Anne Archer
Q: How many chains are there in one mile? A: 80
Q: What is the name of the traditional Scottish pudding, often eaten at Hogmanay, made with suet, currants and, sultanas and named from the cloth in which it is wrapped for cooking? A: Clootie Dumpling
Q: Between 1892 and 1954, which part of New York was the point of entry for millions of immigrants? A: Ellis Island
Q: What was the surname of the Danish father and son who both won Nobel Prizes for Physics, in 1922 and 1975? A: Bohr
Q: Who presents the TV programme 'Caribbean Food Made Easy'? A: Levi Roots
Q: On which river is the Grand Coulee Dam? A: Columbia
Q: French world cup winning footballer Zinedane Zidane is the son of an immigrant from which country? A: Algeria
Q: From which wine making region does Chablis come? A: Burgundy
Q: In which Beatles song does 'the barber shave another customer'? A: Penny Lane
Q: In Greek mythology, Thanatos represented Death who was his twin brother who represented Sleep? A: Hypnos
Q: "Who, in a Shakespeare play, said ""The evil that men do lives after them""?" A: Mark Antony
Q: Discovered in 1824, which chemical element, Atomic Number 14, has a name derived from the Latin for 'flint'? A: Silicon
Q: The name of which classic film (starring Audrey Hepburn) was also the title of a 1996 hit record for the group 'Deep Blue Something'? A: Breakfast at Tiffany's
Q: 'Take My Breath Away' was the theme to which film? A: Top Gun
Q: In 2010 which city will become Europe's first 'Green Capital'? A: Stockholm
Q: Which alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold, is named after a London clockmaker? A: Pinchbeck
Q: What name is given to a short handled farming tool with a semi-circular blade? A: Sickle
Q: What was the family name of Lord and Lady Marchmain in 'Brideshead Revisited'? A: Flyte
Q: Which well known liqueur, usually served in a distinctive manner, is flavoured with elderberry and liquorice? A: Sambuca
Q: In which town is St Magnus' Cathedral, the most northerly in Britain? A: Kirkwall
Q: Red Stripe lager was originally brewed in which country? A: Jamaica
Q: Who is the President of the Football Association? A: Prince William
Q: "Who, in a Shakespeare play, gives his son the advice ""Neither a lender or a borrower be""?" A: Polonius
Q: Which popular Scottish dessert is made with oats, cream, berries and whisky and often eaten at a Burns Supper? A: Cranachan
Q: Which Asian country's flag consists of three vertical stripes of black, red and green with a picture of a mosque in the centre? A: Afghanistan
Q: The Everett Factory in Washington state, USA is the world's largest building, which company own it? A: Boeing
Q: The William Burrell Collection is in which British town or city? A: Glasgow
Q: How many cables make up a nautical mile? A: Ten
Q: Who wrote the major choral work 'All Night Vigil', better known as the 'Vespers' which was sung at his funeral in 1943? A: Rachmaninov
Q: On which Aegean island is the lively resort of Faliraki? A: Rhodes
Q: Which metal is produced by the Mond Process? A: Nickel
Q: Who was the heroine of Jane Austen's novel Northanger Abbey? A: Catherine Morland
Q: Vestiphobia is the fear of what? A: Clothing
Q: Chrometophobia is the fear of what? A: Money
Q: Which is the second largest lake in the Lake District? A: Ullswater
Q: The summer Olympic Games of 1912 were held in which city? A: Stockholm
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Mercutio appear? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Goneril appear? A: King Lear
Q: The summer Olympic Games of 1988 were held in which city? A: Seoul
Q: Who was The Times correspondent who reported on location from the Crimean War? A: William Russell
Q: How many hours did Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin spend walking on the moon in 1969? A: Two hours
Q: Who makes or made the model of vehicle the Cresta? A: Vauxhall
Q: How many years does it take for Halley's Comet to reappear? A: Every 76 years
Q: At the Restoration in 1660, whom did Charles II appoint as Governor of Windsor Castle? A: Prince Rupert
Q: In which year did the Berlin Wall come down? A: 1989
Q: "The inhabitants of which Asian city call their city Krung Thep, ""the City of Angels""?" A: Bangkok
Q: Who directed the film Ryan's Daughter (1970)? A: David Lean
Q: Give a year in the life of John Milton. A: 1608-1674
Q: In 1707 a fleet of Navy ships was wrecked off the Scilly Islands. Who was the commander who lost his life in the disaster? A: Sir Cloudesley Shovel
Q: "In 1939 Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, was called ""the most dangerous woman in Europe"". By whom?" A: Adolf Hitler
Q: What is the name used for the training and cutting of trees and shrubs into ornamental shapes? A: Topiary
Q: Which present-day US state was known officially in the 19th century as Indian territory? A: Oklahoma
Q: Who wrote the opera Peter Grimes? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: Who wrote the opera The Queen of Spades? A: Tchaikovsky
Q: In which US state was native American chief Sitting Bull killed? A: South Dakota
Q: Which flightless bird was found in Britain until nearly 200 years ago? A: (Great) Auk
Q: What is the name for deliberately dwarfing trees and shrubs? A: Bonsai
Q: Who directed the film Citizen Kane (1941)? A: Orson Welles
Q: According to the Old Testament of the Bible, who consulted the witch of Endor? A: Saul
Q: In which British county are the rivers Taw, Torridge and Teign? A: Devon
Q: The village of Borstal that gave its name to institutions for juvenile criminals is in which British county? A: Kent
Q: According to the book of Revelations in the New Testament of the Bible, where were the kings of the earth gathered for battle? A: Armageddon
Q: The state of Malta consists of several islands - which is second in size to Malta itself? A: Gozo
Q: On which river is St Petersburg situated? A: Neva
Q: According to the New Testament of the Bible, where is referred to as the town of David? A: Bethlehem
Q: Who wrote the General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money in 1936? A: John Maynard Keynes
Q: Which sea lies between Australia and New Zealand? A: Tasman
Q: Glen Shee, Glencoe and Glen Ample are all varieties of which fruit? A: Raspberry
Q: Gala, Jonagold and Pink Lady are all varieties of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: The Hall of Arts and Sciences that was opened in 1871 is better known now as what? A: The Royal Albert Hall
Q: St Enoch's station is/was in which British city? A: Glasgow
Q: In a symphony orchestra, which is the smallest woodwind instrument? A: Piccolo
Q: In 1927 the capital of Australia was established in Canberra. Where had it the previous capital been? A: Melbourne
Q: In the 2008 Olympic Games a team of 3 British women won a sailing gold medal - for which class of boat? A: Yngling
Q: What nationality is the model Gisele Bundchen? A: Brazilian
Q: Which supermodel was discovered at the age of 17 in a Dusseldorf night club? A: Claudia Schiffer
Q: Which former African leader once declared himself 'The Last King of Scotland'? A: Idi Amin
Q: Which English Prime Minister left school in 1959 with 3 'O' levels? A: John Major
Q: Which of the four teenage mutant Ninja turtles would come first alphabetically? A: Donatello
Q: What is the nickname of the local mafia boss voiced by Joe Mantegna in 'The Simpsons'? A: Fat Tony
Q: Gisbome, Hawkes Bay and Marlborough are wine producing districts in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Robertson, Constantia and Pearl are wine producing districts in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which 1980 cult film, directed by John Landis, starred John Belushi and Dan Ackroyd? A: Blues Brothers
Q: John Landis directed a famous video for which of Michael Jackson's hits? A: Thriller
Q: Io, Callisto and Europa are moons of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: In which city were almost all French kings crowned? A: Rheims
Q: Which monarch said Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest'? A: Henry II
Q: In the Harry Potter books, which house at Hogwarts has a serpent as its emblem? A: Slytherin
Q: In the children's books by Francesca Simon, 'Perfect Peter' is the younger brother of which character? A: Horrid Henry
Q: Who collaborated with Karl Marx to produce 'The Communist Manifesto' in 1848? A: Frederick Engels
Q: In 1706, the Duke of Marlborough won the Battle of Ramillies. In which modem country is it? A: Belgium
Q: What is the name of the London based society for conjurors and magicians, founded in 1905? A: The Magic Circle
Q: Which entertainer had a statue erected in his memory in his home town of Caerphilly in 2008? A: Tommy Cooper
Q: What is the name of the medical condition of the eye which derives its name from the Greek words for 'without' and 'spot'? A: Astigmatism
Q: What are the tiny blood vessels called which connect the smallest arteries and veins in the body? A: Capillaries
Q: The aurochs is a wild ancestor of which domesticated animal? A: Cattle
Q: The tarpan is a wild ancestor of which domesticated animal? A: Horse
Q: Which part of the body is affected by stomatitis? A: Mouth
Q: What type of food is eaten by animals with carnassial teeth? A: Meat
Q: Protons and neutrons are made up of what smaller objects? A: Quarks
Q: How many quarks make a proton? A: 3
Q: Mauna Loa is a volcano in which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: Mount St Helens is a volcano in which US state? A: Washington
Q: Which is the most northerly racecourse in Great Britain? A: Perth
Q: Which Nottinghamshire fast bowler who died in 1995 was best known for implementing the 'Fast Leg Theory' in the Bodyline Ashes Test series in 1932/33? A: Harold Larwood
Q: What is the usual name for the animal sometimes called a glutton? A: Wolverine
Q: How many legs has a flea? A: 6
Q: What is the minimum age of the President of the USA? A: 35
Q: "To what was John Keats referring in his line ""Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness""?" A: A Grecian Urn
Q: "Which economist wrote ""The Affluent Society"" in 1958?" A: J K Galbraith
Q: How many legs has a lobster? A: 10
Q: What is the name of the colourless plum brandy which is made in several Balkan and Eastern European countries? A: Slivovitz
Q: Which dramatist wrote 'The Alchemist in 1610? A: Ben Jonson
Q: Which law, originating during the reign of Clovis, prevents a woman from succeeding to a throne? A: Salic Law
Q: What are classified using the Hubble Sequence? A: Galaxies
Q: Where was the first fossil 'Homo Erectus' found? A: Indonesia
Q: Which geological period is popularly named the 'Coal Age'? A: Carboniferous
Q: Which geological period is named after the chalk laid down? A: Cretaceous
Q: The endangered kakapo of New Zealand is the world's largest member of which bird family? A: Parrot
Q: Who was the East German leader ousted in 1989? A: Erich Honecker
Q: Which Slovak was elected Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in January 1968? A: Alexander Dubcek
Q: Which film won Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director Robert Zemeckis and Best Actor Tom Hanks? A: Forrest Gump
Q: Which film won Oscars for Best picture, Best Director Barry Levinson and Best Actor Dustin Hoffman? A: Rain Man
Q: Daniel Arap Moi was President of which country? A: Kenya
Q: The Pula is the monetary unit of which African country? A: Botswana
Q: In what did the Owl and the Pussycat keep their money and honey? A: A five pound note
Q: In which county is Alton Towers? A: Staffordshire
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard which is the only vowel not on the top line? A: A
Q: Which European make of car's logo is a stylized diamond shape? A: RENAULT
Q: "About which bird did Wordsworth write ""Is it a bird, or but a wandering voice?" A: CUCKOO
Q: What is the name of the tar-like substance produced from petroleum? A: BITUMEN
Q: Complete the title of this 1960's Group - 'Bachman Turner ....' A: OVERDRIVE
Q: What word is given to the limit of distance at which a sound can be heard? A: EARSHOT
Q: Who played the part of Mildred Roper on television? A: YOOTHA JOYCE
Q: What name is given to a division of a 'Hells Angels' club? A: CHAPTER
Q: Who painted 'The Persistence of Memory'? A: SALVADOR DALI
Q: What name was given to the 17th Century chair with shafts, borne by two servants? A: A SEDAN
Q: What part was played by Patrick Newell in 'The Avengers' TV series? A: MOTHER
Q: Which bone in the human body is at the front but sounds like its at the back? A: STERNUM
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of WW2 Japan? A: TOJO
Q: What is the national sport of Cuba? A: BASEBALL
Q: What nationality is the keyboard player Vangelis? A: GREEK
Q: When 'Titanic' left Southampton in April 1912, where was her first port of call? A: CHERBOURG
Q: Who plays 'Auntie Wainwright' in Last of the Summer Wine? A: JEAN ALEXANDER
Q: Whish gas forms bubbles in the bloodstream when someone gets the bends? A: NITROGEN
Q: Who was the founder and conductor of the 'Black and White Minstrels? A: GEORGE MITCHELL
Q: In which year did the 'Jet Age' become the 'Space Age'? A: 1957
Q: Which part of the human eye may be removed and kept in an eye bank? A: THE CORNEA
Q: In which sphere of industry or commerce is the name of Arthur Maiden famous? A: ADVERTISING
Q: Who or what is the subject of an iconic 1960 photograph by Alberto Korda? A: CHE GUEVARA
Q: In Greek Mythology, Pasiphae gave birth to which creature? A: THE MINOTAUR
Q: What name is given to the study of living things in their environment? A: ECOLOGY
Q: Which part of the human eye controls the size of the pupils? A: THE IRIS
Q: Which English King's coronation was postponed because he was suffering from appendicitis? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Who, in Greek myth, after being slain gave birth to the winged horse 'Pegasus'? A: MEDUSA
Q: Which invention brought to an end the 'Prehistoric Era'? A: WRITING
Q: Which chemical element emits a greenish glow in the air, and unless kept in water, burns of its own accord? A: PHOSPHORUS
Q: Which single word connects Beethoven, 'Terry's of York and Glenn Miller? A: MOONLIGHT
Q: Where was the venue for the hare-coursing 'Waterloo Cup'? A: ALTCAR
Q: What is the name of the Buckinghamshire Estate where the German 'Enigma' codes were cracked during WW2? A: BLETCHLEY PARK
Q: Which classic British car company of the 1940's/50's now produces armoured vehicles for the British Army? A: ALVIS
Q: Which actress played the 'Bond' girl Honeychile Ryder'? A: URSULA ANDRESS
Q: Which consumer company advertises on its packages, 'The best to you each morning'? A: KELLOGGS
Q: In which city was the first of the 'Rocky' films shot? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: Which city is the closest Meriden which claims to be the geographical centre of England? A: COVENTRY
Q: What was the brand name of the 'Cross your Heart' bra? A: PLAYTEX
Q: Which sportsman was nicknamed 'The Yankee Clipper'? A: JOE DI MAGGIO
Q: In which alcoholic spirit might you find a worm in the bottle? A: TEQUILA
Q: What would be stored in a 'humidor'? A: CIGARS
Q: What was the name of the slumbering princess in the tale of 'Sleeping Beauty'? A: AURORA
Q: Which eagle is the largest bird of prey native to England? A: THE WHITE-TAILED
Q: Whose hit 'We Are Family' because an anthem for Gay Rights? A: SISTER SLEDGE
Q: What does Melanie Sykes advertise on television besides Churchill Insurance? A: BODDINGTON' S
Q: For what does the 'U' stand in UPVC? A: UNPLASTICISED
Q: In which Welsh Town is the Royal Mint? A: LLANTRISANT
Q: What name is given to the giant American Transport Plane the 'C5'? A: THE GALAXY
Q: An Astronomical Unit is a standard measurement taken from the earth to where? A: THE SUN
Q: Which King had Daniel thrown into the lions' den? A: DARIUS
Q: After Malta itself and Gozo, what is the third largest island in the country of Malta? A: COMINO
Q: In July 1963, Gerald Durrell set up a Wildlife Conservationist trust on which island? A: JERSEY
Q: "Which English composer gave the Italian title ""Sinfonia Antartica"" to his seventh symphony?" A: RALPH VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: Who, with 18 dismissals, was England's leading wicket taker in the 2009 Ashes series versus Australia? A: STUART BROAD
Q: Which European country contains five of the world's ten highest waterfalls? A: NORWAY
Q: Stomatitis is an inflammation of which part of the human body? A: THE MOUTH
Q: "In which European city is Shakespeare's play, ""Measure for Measure"" set?" A: VIENNA
Q: In August 2009, British athlete, Philip Idowu, won the World Title in Berlin in which event? A: TRIPLE JUMP
Q: "In Welsh place names, what does the word, ""Ynys"" signify?" A: ISLAND
Q: Which museum stands on the site of the Royal Bethlehem, (or Bedlam), hospital in London? A: IMPERIAL WAR MUSEUM
Q: As a teenager, Manchester United footballer, Ryan Giggs adopted his mother's maiden surname as his own. What had been his birth surname? A: WILSON
Q: What is the surname of the rap artist who goes by the pseudonym Eminem? A: MATHERS
Q: What name is given to the small plastic, or metal sheath found at each end of a shoelace? A: AN AGLET
Q: What name is given to the hammer used by an auctioneer? A: A GAVEL
Q: "Who had a No 1 single, ""Fight For This Love"", and a No.1 album, in the UK charts in the same week, in November 2009?" A: CHERYL COLE
Q: Ryan Giggs father, Danny Wilson, left Rugby Union in Wales, and signed professional forms for which Rugby League club? A: SWINTON
Q: Who, in literary fiction, were Peter, Phyllis and Roberta? A: THE RAILWAY CHILDREN
Q: In September 1950,where, in Korea, did UN troops land, prior to the recapture of Seoul? A: INCHON
Q: British athlete, Jessica Ennis, is currently World Champion in which women's event? A: HEPTATHLON
Q: "What is the geographical setting for Shakespeare's play, ""As You Like It""?" A: THE FOREST OF ARDEN
Q: Which European country contains six of the world's deepest caves? A: FRANCE
Q: "Which actor played the part of the vicar, the Reverend Timothy Farthing in the TV comedy series ""Dad's Army""? He later was ""promoted"" to play Bishop Charles in ""You Rang M'Lord"" in the 1990's" A: FRANK WILLIAMS
Q: Who, with 448 runs, was Australia's leading run scorer in the 2009 Ashes series? A: MICHAEL CLARKE
Q: After Majorca, Menorca and Ibiza, what is the fourth largest of the Balearic Islands? A: FORMENTERA
Q: Who was the first wife of the Lawn Tennis player, John McEnroe? A: TATUM O'NEAL
Q: """The Mona Lisa of the North"" or ""The Dutch Mona Lisa"" are two soubriquets for which painting by Dutch master, Jan Vermeer?" A: GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING
Q: The playwright, Harold Pinter was married to which authoress from 1980, until his death in 2008? A: LADY ANTONIA FRASER
Q: During the reign of which British King did Columbus discover the New World? A: HENRY VII
Q: "Which 1992 film featured Whitney Houston's version of the Dolly Parton song, ""I Will Always Love You""?" A: THE BODYGUARD
Q: What is the name of the cooking utensil, popular on the Algarve in Portugal, used to cook a seafood stew, of the same name? A: A CATAPLANA
Q: "Which Shakespeare play opens with the line, ""If music be the food of love, play on""?" A: TWELFTH NIGHT
Q: "In the radio series, ""Hancock's Half Hour"", in which street did Hancock live?" A: RAILWAY CUTTINGS
Q: "In the 1920's, which sportsman was known as, ""The Manassa Mauler""?" A: JACK DEMPSEY
Q: In the 1930's which car company manufactured a model called the Ruby? A: AUSTIN
Q: 1976, Olympic Gold medallist, Alwin Schockemohle, was a top class sportsman in which sport? A: EQUESTRIANISM
Q: In March 2000, which British car company introduced a model called the Aero 8, its first new model for over thirty years? A: MORGAN
Q: "In the 1920's, which sportsman was known as, ""The Sultan of Swat""?" A: BABE RUTH
Q: Before becoming President, of which US state was Barack Obama a senator? A: ILLINOIS
Q: "In the TV series, ""Steptoe and Son"", in which street did the Steptoe's live?" A: OIL DRUM LANE
Q: "In which of Shakespeare's plays does the title of Aldous Huxley's novel, ""Brave New World"" originate?" A: THE TEMPEST
Q: "What is the main ingredient of the French soup, ""Bouillabaisse""?" A: FISH
Q: "Who sang the theme tune, ""My Heart Will Go On"", in the 1997 film, ""Titanic""?" A: CELINE DION
Q: During the reign of which British monarch was the American Declaration of Independence signed? A: GEORGE III
Q: Which gas is produced when water is mixed with Calcium Carbide? A: ACETYLENE
Q: In which 1951 Alec Guinness film does an inventor create a fabric, which never gets dirty or wears out, thus creating panic in the clothing industry? A: THE MAN IN THE WHITE SUIT
Q: "In 1883, which French impressionist artist, painted the picture ""Les Parapluies"", which depicts several people carrying umbrellas?" A: PIERRE-AUGUSTE RENOIR
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard, over which number on the top row, is a circumflex positioned? A: 6
Q: "Who is the subject of the one-man show, ""Hurricane"", performed by Richard Dormer?" A: ALEX HIGGINS
Q: "Which super-group did Eric Clapton join, after the pop group, ""Cream"" split up?" A: BLIND FAITH
Q: Who is the 2009 World Snooker Champion? A: John Higgins
Q: Which French monarch was known as the Sun King? A: Louis XIV
Q: In a 1965 film, by what name is Eric Stoner better known? A: The Cincinnati Kid
Q: How was Alexander the Great's body preserved? A: In honey
Q: Where do the Flintstones live? A: Bedrock
Q: How many spots are there on a traditional six sided die? A: 21
Q: What does a speliologist study? A: Caves
Q: Whom did Robert Ford shoot dead in 1882? A: Jesse James
Q: "From which country does the word ""Duffel"", as in coat, come?" A: Belgium
Q: Who was the most famous wife of baseball player Joe DiMaggio? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Who wrote novels featuring Inspector Lynley? A: Elizabeth George
Q: What is the capital of New Brunswick? A: Fredericton
Q: How many fences are jumped in completing the Grand National? A: 30
Q: Which famous baseball player had the forenames George Herman? A: """Babe"" Ruth"
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Orsino, Duke of Illyria, appear? A: Twelfth Night
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Prospero, Duke of Milan, appear? A: The Tempest
Q: "Which sport's name means ""easy way""?" A: Judo
Q: Which Dickens novel is partly set in America? A: Martin Chuzzlewit
Q: "A collection of which birds is sometimes called a ""stare""?" A: Owls
Q: "Who played ""M"" in the Bond film Goldeneye?" A: Judi Dench
Q: Which was the first bird released from Noah's Ark? A: Raven
Q: In which jail was Oscar Wilde imprisoned? A: Reading
Q: In which jail did John Bunyan write Pilgrim's Progress? A: Bedford
Q: Who was the mother of Achilles, who dipped him into the River Styx? A: Thetis
Q: Who is the patron saint of politicians and lawyers? A: St Thomas More
Q: Which group had former names the Detours and the High Numbers? A: The Who
Q: Which superhero had the identity Linda Lee Dawson? A: Supergirl
Q: Which film was based on the story The Sentinel by Arthur C Clarke? A: 2001: A Space Odyssey
Q: Which funambulist was the first to cross Niagara Falls? A: Charles Blondin
Q: How many sides does a Möbius strip have? A: One
Q: How many surfaces does a cone have? A: Two
Q: Which Irish writer married an ex-chambermaid called Nora Barnacle? A: James Joyce
Q: Who was the lead singer with the group Amen Corner? A: Andy Fairweather Low
Q: Daisy Hawkins was a working title of which Beatles song? A: Eleanor Rigby
Q: Who currently plays Inspector George Gently on TV? A: Martin Shaw
Q: Which planet was discovered by Wiliam Herschel? A: Uranus
Q: Whom did Barack Obama defeat in the 2008 US Presidential election? A: John McCain
Q: Who was Obama's running mate in the 2008 US Presidential election? A: Joe Biden
Q: Araucaria, Shed and Paul are names connected with which pastime? A: Crosswords
Q: Which film won the Oscar for Best Picture in 2009? A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Which is the largest living mammal? A: Blue Whale
Q: In which town or city is the University of Abertay? A: Dundee
Q: Who was replaced in 2008 by Rachel Riley? A: Carol Vorderman
Q: What name is given to scoring a single, double and treble of the same number in three darts? A: Shanghai
Q: Nitro-hydrochloric acid was traditionally called what? A: Aqua Regia
Q: What do Americans celebrate on the first Monday in September? A: Labor Day
Q: Which Poet Laureate lived at Dove Cottage? A: William Wordsworth
Q: Over what distance is the Steeplechase run in Athletics at the Olympics? A: 3000 metres
Q: Which American vocal group was made up of Tim Hauser, Laurel Masse, Alan Paul and Janis Siegel? A: MANHATTAN TRANSFER
Q: John Bercow, speaker of the House of Commons is MP for which constituency? A: BUCKINGHAM
Q: The Bay of Fundy lies off the eastern coast of which country? A: CANADA
Q: "What was the name of the last surviving ""Tommy"", from World War I, who died in 2009, aged 111?" A: HARRY PATCH
Q: "Which product was advertised with the slogan, ""Forces grey out, forces white in""?" A: FAIRY SNOW
Q: "Complete the name of the Caribbean island group, ""Antigua and ...""" A: BARBUDA
Q: The classical musician, Anne-Sophie Mutter plays which instrument? A: VIOLIN
Q: "Which writer created the ""Number I Detective Agency""?" A: ALEXANDER McCALL SMITH
Q: What was the name of the horse that highwayman, Dick Turpin, was reputed to have ridden? A: BLACK BESS
Q: The family seat of which English Duke is at Bradley House in Wiltshire, with a secondary estate at Berry Pomeroy in Totnes? A: DUKE OF SOMERSET
Q: Whereabouts in Scotland, is the ancestral home of the Duke of Argyll? A: INVERARY CASTLE
Q: Which literary character rode a horse named Dapple? A: SANCHO PANZA
Q: """Lark Rise to Candleford"" is a popular BBC TV series. Which authoress wrote the books on which it is based?" A: FLORA THOMPSON
Q: Which Championship football league team is based at the Keepmoat Stadium? A: DONCASTER ROVERS
Q: "Complete the name of the Caribbean island group, ""St Vincent and...""" A: THE GRENADINES
Q: In Japanese cooking, what kind of food is Nori? A: SEAWEED
Q: Which book of the Bible recounts Paul's missionary travels? A: ACTS OF THE APOSTLES
Q: In hich constellation can the star Antares be found? A: SCORPIUS
Q: Walvis Bay is the chief port of which African country? A: NAMIBIA
Q: Which position is currently held by Liam Donaldson? A: CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER OF ENGLAND
Q: Which British group was formed in the late 1980's by ex-members of The Housemartins, Paul Heaton and David Hemingway? A: THE BEAUTIFUL SOUTH
Q: "In Gustav Holst's work ""The Planets Suite"" which planet is termed ""The Mystic""?" A: NEPTUNE
Q: Millport, home to the smallest cathedral in the British Isles, is the main community on which island, in the Firth of Clyde? A: GREAT CUMBRAE
Q: Russell Harty was an English teacher and Richard Whiteley his pupil at which public school? A: GIGGLESWICK
Q: Tavel and Hermitage wines are produced in which French wine growing area? A: RHONE VALLEY
Q: In which western town, in South Dakota, did Jack McCall shoot and kill Wild Bill Hickok in 1876? A: DEADWOOD
Q: As what is an anti-pruritic drug used to act against? A: ITCHING
Q: In 2009, who became only the second woman to train a Grand National winning horse? A: VENETIA WILLIAMS
Q: "In TV's, ""Coronation Street"", which comic actor played the role of the amorous undertaker, Archie Shuttleworth?" A: ROY HUDD
Q: "Which Dutch Renaissance artist painted ""The Hunters in the Snow"", in 1565?" A: PETER BRUEGEL
Q: Captain Dobbin and Amelia Sedley are characters from which 19th century novel? A: VANITY FAIR
Q: England's highest sea cliff, Great Hangman, is in which county? A: DEVON
Q: "Which big band leader used, as his signature tune, ""One O'clock Jump""?" A: COUNT BASIE
Q: "Who is the male star of the 2009 film, ""The Invention of Lying""?" A: RICKY GERVAIS
Q: "How many contestants are there in Channel 4's TV game show, ""Deal or No Deal""?" A: 22
Q: In which city, then in Poland, but now in Belarus, did Germany and Russia sign a peace treaty in 1918? A: BREST LITOVSK
Q: Under the recent vehicle registration plate nomenclature, cars beginning with the letter H, come from which area of the UK? A: HAMPSHIRE
Q: Under the recent vehicle registration plate nomenclature, cars beginning with the letter C come from which area of the UK? A: WALES
Q: In a railway carriage near which city in Northern France did the allies and the Germans sign the Armistice which ended WWI? A: COMPIEGNE
Q: "Which actor played the title role in the 2009 film, ""Bruno""?" A: SACHA BARON COHEN
Q: """Somebody Stole My Gal"", was the theme tune of which band leader?" A: BILLY COTTON
Q: Leith Hill is the highest point in which county in Southern England? A: SURREY
Q: The characters, General Woundwart and Hazel , appear in which 20th century literary work? A: WATERSHIP DOWN
Q: "Which French neoclassical artist painted ""The Death of Marat"" in 1793?" A: JACQUES LOUIS DAVID
Q: "In the TV series ""The Vicar of Dibley"" who played the role of the verger, Alice Tinker?" A: EMMA CHAMBERS
Q: The BCG vaccine gives immunity against which disease? A: TUBERCULOSIS
Q: Who, in 1882 shot and killed Jesse James in St Joseph, Missouri? A: ROBERT FORD
Q: Vouvray and Sancerre wines come from which wine region of France? A: LOIRE VALLEY
Q: Which boarding school, near Tunbridge Wells, was attended by both Princess Anne, and the actress Rachel Weisz? A: BENENDEN
Q: The port of Ullapool, in the Scottish highlands, lies on which loch? A: LOCH BROOM
Q: "In Gustav Hoist's work, ""The Planet Suite"", which planet is known as ""The Magician""?" A: URANUS
Q: "Who is the American financier, who is nicknamed ""The Sage of Omaha""?" A: WARREN BUFFET
Q: In the stories by Michael Bond, which family finds Paddington Bear, and adopts him? A: THE BROWNS
Q: In which English county is the town of Market Harborough? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: """Mama, just killed a man"", is the opening line of which hit song by Queen?" A: BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY
Q: "Who is the writer and star of the BBC TV comedy series, ""Not Going Out""?" A: LEE MACK
Q: In 1967, the Republic of Biafra declared independence from which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: Which instrument is used to examine the interior of the human eye? A: AN OPHTHALMOSCOPE
Q: Who is the only African footballer, to have won the FIFA World Player of the Year award? A: GEORGE WEAH
Q: Which former college of the University of London became independent in July 2007? A: IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Q: Colonel Nicholson is one of the main characters in which famous 1957 war film? A: BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI
Q: Which actress and singer is known as J Lo? A: JENNIFER LOPEZ
Q: What is the better known name of St Sylvester's Day? A: NEW YEAR'S EVE
Q: Which cyclist won Gt. Britain's first gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics? A: NICOLE COOKE
Q: Who became the first English swimmer for 100 years to win two Olympic gold medals, when she won both the 400m and 800m freestyle events in Beijing? A: REBECCA ADLINGTON
Q: In which month of the year is Walpurgis Night celebrated in Europe and Scandinavia? A: APRIL
Q: "What is the name of the convict in Charles Dickens novel, ""Great Expectations""?" A: MAGWITCH
Q: Which composer, born in Pesaro, in Italy, in 1792, was known by the nickname, Monsieur Crescendo? A: ROSSINI
Q: "At which sport did Theodore ""Ted"" Kennedy, who died aged 83 in 2009, play fourteen seasons for the Toronto Maple Leafs?" A: ICE HOCKEY
Q: In which town is the Devonshire Royal Hospital, now the Devonshire campus of the University of Derby? A: BUXTON
Q: In 1967, French Somaliland became the French Territory of the Afars and Issas. To what did the country change its name on gaining independence in 1977? A: DJIBOUTI
Q: "Which musician and actor played the part of Wayne Norris in the TV series, ""Auf Wiedersehen Pet""?" A: GARY HOLTON
Q: "In the hit record ""Bohemian Rhapsody"", by Queen, who is asked to do the fandango?" A: SCARAMOUCHE
Q: In which English county is the town of Chipping Norton? A: OXFORDSHIRE
Q: With which antique dealer did Paddington Bear have his elevenses each day? A: MR GRUBER
Q: In October 1870, Britain issued its smallest ever (in size), postage stamp. It is known in philatelic circles as a bantam. How much did it cost? A: A HALFPENNY
Q: Which Canadian singer was born, Roberta Joan Anderson in 1943? A: JONI MITCHELL
Q: "In the poem, ""The Owl and the Pussycat"", by Edward Lear, how much was paid to the pig for the ring at the end of its nose?" A: ONE SHILLING
Q: Which actress played the title role of Sylvia Broome on the 2005 'The Interpreter'? A: NICOLE KIDMAN
Q: What was the family name of the Italian artist, Michelangelo? A: BUONAROTTI
Q: Who was Lord Admiral of the English Fleet at the time of the Spanish Armada, Sir Francis Drake being his second in command? A: LORD HOWARD OF EFFINGHAM
Q: "According to the opening line of the poem by W.B. Yeats, ""I will arise now and go to"" ....where?" A: INNISFREE
Q: Who became the first President of the newly formed Republic of Tanzania in 1964, a position he held until his retirement in 1985? A: JULIUS NYERERE
Q: In the TV comedy 'Last of the Summer Wine', what is the name of Nora Batty's husband? A: WALLY
Q: The secret recipe for which famous sauce, marketed by Lea and Perrins, has recently come to light, after the disclosure that it was found in a skip near the factory? A: WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
Q: In classical mythology, of what was Plutus, (not to be confused with Pluto), the God? A: WEALTH
Q: In 2009, Yas Marina was the circuit for which country's first ever Formula One motor race? A: ABU DHABI
Q: Which 19th century classical composer had the Christian name of Bedrich? A: SMETANA
Q: Domenico Gaetano were the Christian name of which 19th century composer? A: DONIZETTI
Q: Which driver won the inaugural Formula One race in Abu Dhabi in 2009, thus cementing his runners up spot in the Formula One World Drivers Championship? A: SEBASTIAN VETTEL
Q: Who was the Greek God of wine, the inspirer of ritual madness and ecstasy, his Roman equivalent being Bacchus? A: DIONYSUS
Q: To travel from Manhattan to new Jersey, one may ride the PATH train. For what does the H in PATH stand? A: HUDSON
Q: FRELIMO was a political organisation that fought for independence from European rule in which African country? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: "Who wrote the poem, ""In Memoriam"", which contains the lines, ""It is better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all""?" A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: "Which admiral was executed in 1759, for ""failing to do his utmost"", during the Battle of Minorca?" A: ADMIRAL JOHN BYNG
Q: Who chaired the convention, which was established by the European Council in December 2001, to produce a draft Constitution for the European Union? A: VALERY GISCARD D'ESTAING
Q: Which 1962 film, starring Robert Mitchum in the role of Max Cady, was remade in 1991, with the part being played by Robert de Nero? A: CAPE FEAR
Q: What is the name of the main thoroughfare in Barcelona, which runs from the Placa de Catalunya to the sea? A: LAS RAMBLAS
Q: "In the nursery rhyme, ""There was a Jolly Miller"", where did the jolly miller live?" A: ON THE RIVER DEE
Q: Who eventually broke Bob Beamon's 23 year-old long jump record, in 1991? A: MIKE POWELL
Q: From 559 BC until 530 BC, Cyrus the Great was the leader of which ancient empire? A: PERSIA
Q: "Which actor played the roles of Fagin in the 1948 version of Oliver Twist, and King Charles I in the 1970 film, ""Cromwell""?" A: ALEC GUINNESS
Q: "Which group had a hit record in 1967 with the tune, ""A Whiter Shade of Pale""?" A: PROCOL HARUM
Q: The name of which metallic, chemical, element is derived from the German word for goblin? A: COBALT
Q: Who was twice French Minister of the Interior? First between May 2002 and March 2004, and then between May 2005 and March 2007? A: NICOLAS SARKOZY
Q: In the Bible, where did Jesus perform his miracle of turning water into wine? A: CANA
Q: What is the name of the new racecourse, opened in June 2009, about five miles north of Llanelli? A: FFOS LAS
Q: Who was Britain's longest serving Prime Minister, holding office from 1812-27? A: LORD LIVERPOOL
Q: "Who, in 1935, said, ""The Pope! How many divisions has he""?" A: JOSEPH STALIN
Q: Which is the largest province, by area, in Afghanistan? A: HELMAND PROVINCE
Q: Which title was given to the series of books by Roger Hargreaves, which featured the female counterparts of the Mr Men? A: LITTLE MISS BOOKS
Q: Which city is the capital of the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan? A: PESHAWAR
Q: Who was the Chief Constable of Greater Manchester, who died in suspicious circumstances in Snowdonia in 2008? A: MIKE TODD
Q: Which is the lowest prime number greater than 50? A: 53
Q: "Who, in 1936, said, ""Guns will make us powerful. Butter will only make us fat""?" A: HERMANN GOERING
Q: Which British Prime Minister died in office in 1827, just 199 days after assuming the title? His is the shortest term of office of any British P.M. A: GEORGE CANNING
Q: "The title of which Verdi opera translates as, ""The Fallen Woman""?" A: LA TRAVIATA
Q: Which politician held the post of Mayor of Paris from March 1977 until May 1995? A: JACQUES CHIRAC
Q: In Roman times, where was the metallic element Copper chiefly mined, giving rise to its present name? A: CYPRUS
Q: """Go Now"", in 1964, is the only No 1 U.K. hit record for which famous group?" A: THE MOODY BLUES
Q: "Which actor played the roles of Lord Nelson in the 1941 film, ""That Hamilton Woman"", and Heathcliff in the 1939 version of ""Wuthering Heights""?" A: LAURENCE OLIVIER
Q: The explorer and navigator, Christopher Columbus, was born around 1451, in which city? A: GENOA
Q: Featured on a British commemorative stamp in October 2009, Judy Fryd formed the Association of Parents of Backward Children in 1946. As what is it now known? A: MENCAP
Q: What is the more common name for gypsum cement? A: PLASTER OF PARIS
Q: "Which long running TV series was introduced by a piece of music, entitled, ""The Funeral March of a Marionette"", by Gounod?" A: ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS
Q: Hedley Verity was an international star in which sport, during the 1930's? A: CRICKET
Q: "Which single malt Scotch whisky is handcrafted by, ""The Sixteen Men of Tame?" A: GLENMORANGIE
Q: "In the Sherlock Holmes story, ""The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle"", what was the Blue Carbuncle?" A: A PRECIOUS STONE
Q: What was the first forename of the infamous, French revolutionary leader Robespierre? A: MAXIMILIEN
Q: On 7th August 2008, which region was invaded by Georgian troops, prompting Russian retaliation? A: SOUTH OSSETIA
Q: "In the TV series, ""Rumpole of the Bailey"", what was the name of Rumpole's wife?" A: HILDA
Q: "Derived from the Greek word ""erythros"", which colour does the prefix erythro describe?" A: RED
Q: "Derived from the Greek word, ""xanthos, which colour does the prefix xantho describe?" A: YELLOW
Q: Which agreement, signed by ten members of the European Community, removed border controls between them? A: THE SCHENGEN AGREEMENT
Q: "In the Sherlock Holmes story, ""The Speckled Band"", what is the speckled band?" A: A SNAKE
Q: "Which actress plays the role of Christine Collins, the unfortunate mother in the 2008 film, ""Changeling""?" A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: "What was described on TV as, ""Bread wi' nowt taken out""?" A: ALLINSONS
Q: At which sport was Martine Le Moignan a leading exponent, in the 1980's and early 90's? A: SQUASH
Q: Goitre, or enlarged thyroid gland, is caused by a deficiency of which trace element in the human body? A: IODINE
Q: What is the chemical name for the substance known as heavy water? A: DEUTERIUM OXIDE
Q: What was the title of the last Rolling Stones record to top the U.K. charts, doing so in July 1969? A: HONKY TONK WOMEN
Q: "Featured on a British commemorative stamp in 2009, which woman writer and feminist philosopher, wrote, in 1792, ""A Vindication of the Rights of Women""?" A: MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT
Q: Who beat Walter Mondale in the U.S. Presidential election in 1984? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Batavia was the former name, up until 1942, of which Asian city? A: JAKARTA
Q: Ilex aquifolium is the botanical name for which tree? A: (Common) HOLLY
Q: In opera 'The Marriage of Figaro' who does Figaro marry? A: SUSANNA
Q: Who, in the Old Testament, was born at Gath one of the 'five cities of the plains'? A: GOLIATH
Q: What are produced by the lachrymal glands? A: TEARS
Q: In the Oscar acting categories, which actor has received the most nominations? A: JACK NICHOLSON
Q: From which language do we get the words dinghy, shampoo and dungarees? A: HINDI
Q: Which organ of the body produces bile? A: LIVER
Q: In the Oscar acting categories, which actress has received the most nominations? A: MERYL STREEP
Q: What is the main ingredient of the soup borsch? A: BEETROOT
Q: What is the capital of Montenegro? A: PODGORICA
Q: Who was the Commander of the Union Army at the Battle of Gettysburg? A: GEORGE MEADE
Q: Striding Edge is a ridge leading to which Lakeland mountain? A: HELVELLYN
Q: Gaius Octavius (Octavian) is better known as which Roman Emperor? A: AUGUSTUS
Q: Which word appears in the name of all Japanese merchant ships? A: MARU
Q: In which year was the M1 Motorway opened? A: 1959
Q: What is the name of the Swedish policeman in the series of novels by Henning Mankel? A: (Kurt) WALLANDER
Q: Which British territory was captured by the Japanese on Christmas Day 1941? A: HONG KONG
Q: From which musical does the song The Night They Invented Champagne' come? A: GIGI
Q: The Roman Emperor Gaius Caesar Augustus Germanica was better known by which nickname? A: CALIGULA
Q: In naval warfare for what is a paravane used for? A: MINE SWEEPING
Q: With which instrument do you associate jazz musician Charlie Mingus? A: DOUBLE BASS
Q: Who was the original quizmaster of the TV series 'They Think It's All Over'? A: NICK HANCOCK
Q: Woburn Abbey is the family seat of which duke? A: BEDFORD
Q: Which is Britain's smallest bird? A: GOLDCREST
Q: Which of the United States is known as the Wolverine State'? A: MICHIGAN
Q: In which English cathedral is the Angel Choir? A: LINCOLN
Q: The Guiness brewery now specialises in producing stout, but which other traditional dark beer, weaker in alcohol, was also originally brewed there? A: PORTER
Q: With which instrument do you associate jazz musician Herbie Hancock? A: PIANO
Q: Inverary Castle is the family seat of which duke? A: ARGYLL
Q: Who was the original quizmaster of the TV series 'A Question of Sport'? A: DAVID VINE
Q: Which of the United States is known as the 'Badger State'? A: WISCONSIN
Q: In which English cathedral are the Five Sisters windows? A: YORK
Q: In Greek myth into what was Daphne turned whilst being pursued by Apollo? A: LAUREL TREE
Q: Which poet, killed in World War One, wrote the poems 'Adlestrop' and 'Celandine? A: EDWARD THOMAS
Q: To which English king was Elizabeth Woodville married? A: EDWARD the FOURTH
Q: Who was the last Prime Minister of the Great Britain to sit as Prime Minister in the House of Lords? A: (Marquess of) SALISBURY
Q: Who is the only man to have won to have won both the world motor cycling and Fl motor racing championships? A: JOHN SURTEES
Q: Callao is the main port of which country? A: PERU
Q: Which planet when discovered was originally called the Georgian planet? A: URANUS
Q: Which poet, who died during World War One, wrote the poems 'Peace' and 'Tiare Tahiti'? A: RUPERT BROOKE
Q: In Greek myth who was the beautiful youth, loved by Aphrodite and killed by a boar? A: ADONIS
Q: Who was the first music hall star to be knighted? A: HARRY LAUDER
Q: To which English king was Anne Neville married? A: RICHARD the THIRD
Q: Who is the only man to have won the US Open singles tennis title on three different surfaces (grass, clay, and hardcourt)? A: JIMMY CONNORS
Q: Whose was the shortest British premiership of the twentieth century? A: ANDREW BONAR LAW
Q: Who, in 1632, painted 'The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp'? A: REMBRANDT
Q: Who had the catchphrase 'Can you hear me mother'? A: SANDY POWELL
Q: What was the former name of Manchester Airport? A: RINGWAY
Q: As what were Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder known in the title of a 1968 film? A: THE PRODUCERS
Q: What is a Portuguese man-of-war? A: Jellyfish
Q: Which is the oldest tower of the Tower of London? A: The White Tower
Q: Rose Sunday is another name for which day? A: Mothering Sunday
Q: The Braemar Gathering is the most famous event of what type? A: Highland Games
Q: Yo Yo Ma is a virtuoso on which instrument? A: Cello
Q: What is a Dandie Dinmont? A: Dog
Q: Who invented the ball-point pen? A: Laszlo Biro
Q: Lesotho is surrounded by which other country? A: South Africa
Q: Which musical genre derives its name from a phrase used in 1962 in a novel by William Burroughs? A: Heavy Metal
Q: What is worn on the feet in street hockey? A: Roller skates
Q: Safeway supermarkets were taken over by which rival? A: Morrison's
Q: What name is given to the part of a flag nearest the flag pole? A: Hoist
Q: What was the nationality of the scientist Robert Bunsen? A: German
Q: Who presents the Radio 2 Wednesday night folk music show? A: Mike Harding
Q: What was the name of the record label founded by Frank Sinatra in 1960? A: Reprise
Q: Throughout the Old Testament there are references to the 'Great Sea', by what name is that sea now known? A: Mediterranean
Q: During the nineteenth century what name was given to Indian soldiers serving under British command? A: Sepoys
Q: From 1901-1903, Edmund Barton was the first Prime Minister of which country? A: Australia
Q: The 'Road to the Isles' runs from Fort William to which port? A: Mallaig
Q: In which country were the Bamiyan Buddhas destroyed in 2001? A: Afghanistan
Q: What was the name of the Cartwright's ranch in the TV western `Bonanza'? A: The Ponderosa
Q: What sport was played by the legendary character Rudolph Wanderone, better known as Minnesota Fats? A: Pool
Q: What is the name of the Japanese mafia-like criminal organisations? A: Yakuza
Q: Who was acting leader of the Lib Dems after the resignation of Sir Menzies Campbell? A: Vince Cable
Q: Which composer (1874 - 1951) first used the Dodecaphonic Scale in his later works? A: Arnold Schoenberg
Q: Who wrote the Jimi Hendrix hit 'All Along the Watchtower'? A: Bob Dylan
Q: Nicknamed the 'King of Soho' his publications included Mayfair and Razzle magazines, he died in March 2008, by what name was he known? A: Paul Raymond
Q: Who was the father of King Henry 3rd? A: King John
Q: In which battle did the 'Thin Red Line' feature? A: Balaclava
Q: In which bay is the Isle of Capri? A: Bay of Naples
Q: On which Shakespeare play is the musical 'The Boys From Syracuse' based? A: Comedy of Errors
Q: Which old British coin was known as a 'tester'? A: Sixpence
Q: What name was given to small balls used as a charge in a cannon that scattered when fired? A: Grapeshot
Q: What is the fruit of the plant ananas comosus? A: Pineapple
Q: The exotic flower strelitzia is also known by which more common name? A: Bird of Paradise
Q: Which player has won 5 FA Cup winners medals in the last ten years? A: Ashley Cole
Q: Who composed the 1912 ballet 'Daphnis et Chloe'? A: Ravel
Q: Flores and Corvo are islands in which group? A: Azores
Q: Who was England's most married queen? She had four husbands. A: Catherine Parr
Q: What was the surname of the British father and son who shared the Nobel Prize for physics in 1915? A: Bragg
Q: Norman Cook, known as Fat Boy Slim, began his music career as a member of which chart-topping group? A: The Housemartins
Q: Which authoress (1890-1969), surname Lamburn, was born in Bury? A: Richmal Crompton
Q: What is the unit of weight used to measure gemstones? A: Carat
Q: How many points make 'game' in rubber bridge? A: 100
Q: What is the name of the organic food company founded by Prince Charles? A: Duchy Originals
Q: In which town are the prominent amateur Rugby League teams `Rose Bridge' and `St Patrick's' based? A: Wigan
Q: Which 1985 agreement between many EC states led to the removal of border controls between those countries? A: Schengen
Q: The song 'O Fortuna' is to be found in which Carl Orff musical work? A: Carmina Burana
Q: The Nazi regime was Germany's Third Reich, which was the First Reich? A: Holy Roman Empire
Q: Sisters Kate and Bianca appear in which of Shakespeare's plays? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: Which Impressionist painted 'The Card Players'? A: Cezanne
Q: Who is the presenter of TV programme Dragons Den? A: EVAN DAVIS
Q: From 1956 until his death in 2008 in which country did Arthur C Clarke live? A: SRI LANKA
Q: Which film saw Sean Connery's last portrayal of James Bond? A: NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN
Q: What is the nickname of TV presenter Richard Hammond? A: HAMSTER
Q: In which country does the factual series Ice Road Truckers take place? A: CANADA
Q: "What does the ""S"" in HBOS stand?" A: SCOTLAND
Q: Which retail company used Julie Walters in its adverts? A: ASDA
Q: Which famous mountain is known as the Six Grandfathers to the Lakota Sioux Indians? A: MOUNT RUSHMORE
Q: Who was Britain's youngest Olympian at the 2008 games? A: TOM DALEY
Q: The War Department existed from 1857 to 1964:when it changed to what? A: MINISTRY OF DEFENCE
Q: "What"" the name of the spoof bank that appears in the adverts for Nat West Mortgages?" A: A BANK
Q: By what name is the Music of Black Origin Awards better known? A: MOBO AWARDS
Q: Defeat at which battle caused the French to leave Vietnam in the 1960's? A: DIEN BIEN PHU
Q: Which stage musical is based on the songs of Take That? A: NEVER FORGET
Q: What is the Iditarod which takes place in Alaska? A: DOG SLED RACE
Q: Where in England beside Liverpool would you find a regional Tate Gallery? A: ST IVES
Q: "What is the name for the ""Code of Living"" followed by the Samurai?" A: BUSHIDO
Q: Who made his last film appearance in Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets? A: RICHARD HARRIS
Q: Which famous US actor made his last film appearance in the film Solyent Green? A: EDWARD G ROBINSON
Q: Who was the last English manager of Chelsea? A: GLENN HODDLE
Q: Which stretch of water runs around Iran, Oman and The United Arab Emirates? A: STRAITS OF HORMUZ
Q: Which man other than Billy McNeill and Martin O'Neil has managed both Aston Villa and Celtic? A: DR JOSEF VENGLOS
Q: What is the nickname of TV presenter James May? A: CAPTAIN SLOW
Q: Which world famous city in Eire stands on the River Lee? A: CORK
Q: What symbol is found in the centre of the Indian flag? A: A WHEEL
Q: Which ancient structure ran from Old Kirkpatrick, Dumbartonshire to Bo'ness Falkirk? A: ANTONINE WALL
Q: In 1995 Dave Grohl formed which pop band? A: FOO FIGHTERS
Q: Which acclaimed actor was the narrator of Paddington Bear on TV? A: SIR MICHAEL HORDERN
Q: Who is the only 20th century president to be carved onto Mount Rushmore? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: In which English city would you find a district called Portishead? A: BRISTOL
Q: St Catherine's Point is the most southerly tip of which British island? A: ISLE OF WIGHT
Q: Which car manufacturer has a badge with one large star and five small stars in a circle? A: SUBARU
Q: In cricket what name for a bowling delivery is taken from the Hindi-or Urdu language? A: DOOSRA.
Q: Hailey Williams is the lead singer with which current pop band? A: PARAMORE
Q: What video game developer created the critically acclaimed Grand Theft Auto series of games? A: ROCKSTAR GAMES
Q: Dundee cake is a rich fruit cake with which traditional topping? A: ALMONDS
Q: In The Lord of the Rings trilogy to where did Frodo have to return the ring? A: (THE FIRES OF) MOUNT
Q: Who was the first cartoon character to appear on a US postage stamp? A: BUGS BUNNY
Q: Which well known couple died in 1934? A: BONNIE AND CLYDE
Q: What is the name of the cake traditionally eaten at Easter? A: SIMNEL
Q: After whom is the New Orleans main airport named? A: LOUIS ARMSTRONG
Q: Where did Thomas Cook organise his first package holiday to go to? A: LOUGHBOROUGH
Q: In most parts of the world castrated bulls are called bullocks what are they called in USA? A: STEERS
Q: In 1979, Trevor Francis became the first footballer to be transferred for a fee of £1 million, when he moved from Birmingham City to which club? A: NOTTINGHAM FOREST
Q: "In the Dickens novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", who sued Mr Pickwick for breach of promise?" A: MRS BARDELL
Q: Nadezhda von Meck was the patron of which great composer, and to whom he dedicated his fourth symphony? A: TCHAIKOVSKY
Q: Who owned the famous racehorse Shergar? A: THE AGA KHAN
Q: Which city, in 1985, was the first to be designated European City of Culture, now renamed European Capital of Culture? A: ATHENS
Q: "Which English Renaissance dramatist and poet wrote the 17th century play, ""Volpone""?" A: BEN JONSON
Q: In which modern day country is the site of the 1706 Battle of Ramillies? A: BELGIUM
Q: Which political commentator and writer published a controversial biography of Prince Charles in 1995, much of it concerning the collapse of his marriage to Princess Diana? A: JONATHAN DIMBLEBY
Q: Which nickname was given to the American WWII general, George Patton? A: BLOOD and GUTS
Q: In which BBC magazine style TV programme do John Craven, Julia Bradbury and Matt Baker take part? A: COUNTRYFILE
Q: Who has taken over the TV role of Doctor Who, from actor David Tennant? A: MATT SMITH
Q: Which American W.W.II general was nicknamed Vinegar Joe? A: JOSEPH STILWELL
Q: Who conducted the famous Panorama interview with Princess Diana in 1995? A: MARTIN BASHIR
Q: Which Kent batsman has the same surname as a two-syllable point of the compass? A: SAM NORTHEAST
Q: In which modern day country is the site of the 1704 Battle of Blenheim? A: GERMANY
Q: "What is the profession of Ricky Gervais character, Bertram Pinkus, in the 2008 film, ""Ghost Town""?" A: DENTIST
Q: "Which English novelist and poet, wrote the 19th century novel, ""The Woodlanders""?" A: THOMAS HARDY
Q: Who founded Vernon's Pools in 1925? A: VERNON SANGSTER
Q: "In the Dickens novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", who is Mr Pickwick's manservant?" A: SAM WELLER
Q: Agadir is a major city in which African country? A: MOROCCO
Q: Which Hungarian airline, (IATA code W6), flies from Liverpool to Gdansk, Katowice, Prague and Warsaw? A: WIZZ
Q: The vicuna is the smallest species of which group of animals? A: CAMELS
Q: Mostar and Banja Luka are the two largest cities in which country? A: BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Q: """April is the cruellest month"" is the opening line of which poem by T S Eliot?" A: THE WASTELAND-
Q: "Who hosts the TV comedy panel show, ""Argumental""?" A: JOHN SERGEANT
Q: "In which 1956, film musical did Gordon MacRae sing about the attributes of ""My Boy Bill""?" A: CAROUSEL
Q: In 1930, who discovered the planet Pluto, now re-designated an asteroid? A: CLYDE TOMBAUGH
Q: Which Impressionist artist painted a series of pictures in the 1890's, depicting haystacks? A: CLAUDE MONET
Q: With which part of the body is the medicinal science of orthodontics concerned? A: TEETH
Q: For refusing to obey the unjust laws of which King, was Daniel thrown into the lion's den? A: DARIUS
Q: Yerba Buena, was the original Spanish name of which Major American City? A: SAN FRANCISCO
Q: "Which American actor, who died in 2009, played the middle aged husband of teenage temptress, Carol Baker, in the 1956 film, ""Lolita""?" A: KARL MALDEN
Q: """The Red Badge of Courage"", a novel by Stephen Crane is set during which war?" A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, studied for which profession, before becoming a successful author? A: DOCTOR OF MEDICINE
Q: What was the Christian name of Sherlock Holmes partner Dr. Watson? A: JOHN
Q: In which 1970 film, did Dustin Hoffman play the part of a hundred year old survivor of the Battle of The Little Big Horn? A: LITTLE BIG MAN
Q: Peter Stuyvesant, born in Holland, became Governor of which American city in 1647? A: NEW YORK
Q: In which region of Israel, is the village of Cana, where Jesus performed his first miracle, turning water into wine? A: GALILEE
Q: Which particular part of the body helps one to keep ones balance? A: THE INNER EAR
Q: """ Venus at her Mirror"" is probably the most well known work by which 17th century artist?" A: DIEGO VELAZQUEZ
Q: Which South American country has borders with Brazil, Bolivia and Argentina? A: PARAGUAY
Q: "In which 1950 film musical did Howard Keel and Betty Hutton argue in song, that each of them could ""Do Anything Better Than You""?" A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: "Who succeeded Carol Vorderman on the TV quiz show, ""Countdown"" in 2009?" A: RACHEL RILEY
Q: "Which John Masefield poem begins, ""Quinquereme of Nineveh, from distant Ophir""?" A: CARGOES
Q: Pula and Rijeka are two cities in which country? A: CROATIA
Q: In the popular song, what did the old lady swallow, after she swallowed a fly? A: A SPIDER
Q: In football, what is the Italian equivalent to the English Premier League? A: SERIE A
Q: In which children's book would you find the Oompa-Loompas? A: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Q: Which battle of the American Civil war took place in Tennessee on the 6th/7th April 1862? A: Shiloh
Q: Where in Arizona is London Bridge located? A: Lake Havasu
Q: What is the Hindi name for India? A: Bharat
Q: "Which ""battle"" took place in South Dakota on 29th December 1890?" A: Wounded Knee
Q: Presbyopia is a degeneration in vision as a result of what? A: Ageing
Q: Which African capital lies closest to the Greenwich Meridian? A: Accra
Q: What is the Finnish name for Finland? A: Suomi
Q: Which architect, with various partners, designed London's Millennium Bridge? A: (Norman) Foster
Q: "Who wrote, in translation, ""Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains""?" A: (Jean Jacques)Rousseau
Q: In Norse mythology, what type of creature was Fenrir? A: Wolf
Q: Which flower takes its name from the Greek meaning 'gold flower'? A: Chrysanthemum
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear powered civilian vessel, an icebreaker? A: Lenin
Q: From what did Robert the Bruce die in 1329? A: Leprosy
Q: Who, starting in 1962, created a series of silkscreen paintings of Marilyn Monroe? A: (Andy) Warhol
Q: In the Old Testament, which of the twelve tribes of Israel, to which Moses and Aaron belonged, was not given territory in the Promised Land? A: Levi
Q: In Egyptian mythology, what type of animal was Apis? A: Bull
Q: "Who wrote, in translation, ""From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs""?" A: (Karl) Marx
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear powered merchant cargo ship? A: Savannah
Q: From what did Oliver Cromwell die in 1658? A: Malaria
Q: In the Old Testament, to which the twelve tribes of Israel did Saul, David, and the prophesied Messiah belong? A: Judah
Q: "Who had a UK No. 1 hit in 1970 with ""Yellow River""?" A: Christie
Q: What was the forename of the Czechoslovakian composer Smetana? A: Bedrich
Q: Which company manufactured the WW2 plane, the B17, known as the Flying Fortress? A: Boeing
Q: Which fur is traditionally used to trim the robes of peers and judges? A: Ermine
Q: The main ingredients of the dish vichysoisse are potato and which other vegetable? A: Leek
Q: Which King of Great Britain was succeeded by his sister-in-law? A: William the Third
Q: In which country would you find the Mato Grosso plateau? A: Brazil
Q: "In the 1966 film ""The Good, The Bad and The Ugly"", who played Tuco, ""the Ugly""?" A: Eli Wallach
Q: As what was the Isle of Wight known to the Romans? A: Vectis
Q: What was the forename of the Hungarian composer Kodaly? A: Zoltan
Q: What name is given in English law to a minor legally placed under the care of a guardian? A: Ward
Q: Which company manufactured the RAF's first operational jet fighter the Meteor? A: Gloster
Q: Which King of Great Britain was succeeded by his niece? A: William the Fourth
Q: The main ingredients of the Irish dish colcannon are potato and which other vegetable? A: Cabbage
Q: Who played Malcolm X in the 1992 film of the same name? A: Denzel Washington
Q: Created in 1903, what became England's first 'garden city'? A: Letchworth
Q: Which musical of 1927, with music by Jerome Kern, was based on an Edna Ferber novel of the same name? A: Showboat
Q: Who was the first American to win the Tour de France? A: Greg LeMond
Q: Which Pulitzer Prize winning novel, by Alice Walker, was the subject of numerous attempts to have it banned, on the grounds of violence and racism? A: The Color Purple
Q: What name is given to the arc of bright spots seen during a solar eclipse, and caused by the uneven surface of the moon? A: Baily's Beads
Q: Which cathedral stands at the southern end of Red Square? A: St. Basil's
Q: In which musical do the characters Rusty, Dinah, and Poppa appear? A: Starlight Express
Q: Created in 1946, what became the first New Town in England? A: Stevenage
Q: Which book, by former MI5 operative Peter Wright, was banned by the British government on the grounds of national security? A: Spycatcher
Q: What was the name of Freddie Laker's cheap trans-Atlantic airline from 1977 to 1983? A: Sky Train
Q: New York has two cathedrals. One is being refurbished following a fire in 2001, and is dediacted to St. John the Divine. To whom is the other dedicated? A: St Patrick
Q: In which constellation would you find the Horse Head nebula? A: Orion
Q: What was the former name of Botswana? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Howard Kirk is the eponymous hero of which 1975 Malcolm Bradbury novel? A: History Man
Q: What role was played by Arthur Cook in the General Strike of 1926? A: Miners' leader
Q: What name was given to a Roman gladiator who fought with a weighted net, a 3-pointed trident and a dagger? A: Retiarius
Q: Which winner of X Factor had the best selling single of 2008? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Which is the only horse racing course in Northamptonshire? A: Towcester
Q: In medicine, what name is given to inflammation of the protective membranes enclosing the brain and spinal cord? A: Meningitis
Q: The national flag of Germany is a tricolour with three horizontal bands. What colour is the top band? A: Black
Q: "Which Greek word meaning ""curdling"" is used in medicine for the formation of a blood clot?" A: Thrombosis
Q: "In his famous poem, precisely how many daffodils did Wordsworth see ""at a glance""?" A: Ten thousand
Q: Which day of the week is named after the Norse god of single combat and heroic glory or courage? A: Tuesday
Q: "Which English comic actor do you associate with the line ""Infamy, Infamy, They've all got it in for me""?" A: Kenneth Williams
Q: In heraldry, what is a Talbot? A: A (hunting) dog
Q: Which 1790 Mozart opera features the heroines Dorabella and Fiordiligi? A: Cosi Fan Tutte
Q: Which British cyclist won four stages of the 2008 Tour de France? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: "Which English king married the sister of the ""Princes in the Tower""?" A: Henry VII
Q: What name was given to Haydn's symphony No. 96 as a result of a chandelier falling and narrowly missing the audience at its first performance? A: Miracle Symphony
Q: Which masked hero of books and films signed himself with three strokes of his sword? A: Zorro
Q: In which year did Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother die? A: 2002
Q: Who started off selling newspapers, became the First Lord of the Admiralty in the 1870s and was immortalised in Gilbert and Sullivan's HMS Pinafore? A: W H Smith
Q: What was the title of Sir Walter Scott's first novel of 1814 which he set around the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion? A: Waverley
Q: Which Glen Miller recording of 1941 was the first record ever to be awarded a gold disc? A: Chattanooga Choo Choo
Q: What number Pennsylvania Avenue is the address of the White House? A: 1600
Q: What is the only US state capital to have a 3-word name? A: Salt Lake City
Q: "Who represented the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1975 with the song ""Let me be the one""?" A: The Shadows
Q: A4 paper measures 297 millimetres by 210 millimetres. But what is the basic size of paper that covers 1 square metre? A: AO
Q: In Norse mythology, who was the goddess of the underworld? A: Hel
Q: Lizard, Gloucester and Border are varieties of which bird? A: Canary
Q: Which George Bernard Shaw play is subtitled 'A Metabiological Pentateuch'? A: Back to Methuselah
Q: Which English king was the son of Lord Darnley and Mary Queen of Scots? A: James I
Q: For which professional rugby league club did athlete Dwain Chambers play one match in 2008? A: Castleford
Q: In literature, who has an enemy called Erich von Stalhein? A: Biggles
Q: Who is the only one of Snow White's dwarves to wear glasses? A: Doc
Q: Which is Spain's third most populated city after Madrid and Barcelona? A: Valencia
Q: Which planet has the densest atmosphere consisting mostly of carbon dioxide? A: Venus
Q: What was originally stored in a buttery? A: Wine
Q: In which organ of the body are worn-out red blood cells removed and antibodies synthesised? A: Spleen
Q: For his portrayal of which real life character did Philip Seymour Hoffman win the 2006 Best Actor Oscar? A: Truman Capote
Q: Which car company's logo features a prancing black horse? A: Ferrari
Q: """Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife"" is a line written by which poet?" A: Thomas Gray
Q: The moons of Uranus are named after characters in the works of Shakespeare and which other English writer and poet? A: Alexander Pope
Q: In 1959 which was the first city in Britain to be postcoded? A: Norwich
Q: "Who represented the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974 with the song ""Long Live Love""?" A: Olivia Newton John
Q: "What year did the Queen describe as her ""annus horribilis""?" A: 1992
Q: Which part of the digestive system gets its name from the fact that it is as wide as twelve fingers? A: Duodenum
Q: A photograph of which actress did Judge Roy Bean always carry in his wallet? A: Lily Langtry
Q: What is the name of the carbohydrate found in the cell walls of fruits and used in the setting of jams and jellies? A: PECTIN
Q: What is the name of the structure under a balloon or airship that holds the crew and passengers? A: GONDOLA
Q: How many years are there in a US President's term of office? A: FOUR
Q: Which pie-making company in Baxenden in Lancashire, has bright insect-green wagons delivering to chippies across the region? A: HOLLAND'S
Q: In which magazine can Billie the Fish, Roger Mellie and Sid the Sexist appear? A: VIZ
Q: What is the name of the estuary at the mouths of the rivers Ouse and Trent? A: HUMBER
Q: Give any year the Boer Wars was fought? A: 1899-1902
Q: What record did Jeanne Calment reach in 1995? A: OLDEST HUMAN BEING
Q: On which island was the world's fourth atomic bomb detonated? A: BIKINI
Q: What is the most common name for the eggplant? A: AUBERGINE
Q: Specifically, from the derivation of the name, what item did a chandler sell? A: CANDLES
Q: What is the name of the blue or white cheese, made from full cream milk and manufactured in the parts of Leicestershire around Melton Mowbray? A: STILTON
Q: On the banks of which river does the city of Quebec stand? A: ST LAWRENCE
Q: To which religious group did the chocolate manufacturing families Cadbury, Fry and Rowntree all belong? A: QUAKERS
Q: What is the Roman numeral for 500? A: D
Q: Which author created the CIA agent Jack Ryan? A: TOM CLANCY
Q: Which airship crashed, killing most of its passengers and crew, just outside of Beauvais in France on 5 October 1930? A: R 101
Q: Bohea is a type of what? A: TEA
Q: Which band leader's theme tune was 'Somebody Stole my Gal? A: BILLY COTTON
Q: What structure was moved from Hyde Park to Sydenham in 1854? A: THE CRYSTAL PALACE
Q: Which Worcester-based firm is the main manufacturer of Worcester Sauce? A: LEA & PERRIN
Q: British Airways was formed between 1971 and 1974 by the merger of two airlines - name either. A: BEA or BOAC
Q: Which Scottish soup's name derives from its main ingredients, chicken and leeks? A: COCKALEEKIE
Q: Which Russian jeweller of French decent is famous for his intricate Easter Eggs of gold and diamonds, which he made for the Russian Tsars? A: PETER FABERGE
Q: Of which tribe was Boudicca the queen? A: ICENI
Q: What American state's capital is Montgomery? A: ALABAMA
Q: In the Church of England, which office is below that of a bishop, but is the head of the chapter of a cathedral? A: DEAN
Q: What was the punishment of the six Trade Unionists, the Tolpuddle Martyrs? A: TRANSPORTATION
Q: Roy Plomley was, in 1944, the creator and first presenter of which radio programme? A: DESERT ISLAND DISCS
Q: Which chat-show host made his name with the 1989 series The Last Resort? A: JONATHAN ROSS
Q: In France, a charcuterie is a shop specialising in which meat? A: PORK
Q: Which actor played Al Jolson in The Jolson Story and it sequel? A: LARRY PARKS
Q: Which town in Southwest Belgium, twinned with Bootle in 1967, was on 21 August 1914, the site of the first World War I battle between British and German forces? A: MONS
Q: In the TV series 'Upstairs Downstairs' what was the name of the butler played by Gordon Jackson? A: HUDSON
Q: In melodrama, who was the supplier of fillings for Mrs Lovatt's pies? A: SWEENEY TODD
Q: What did Letchworth become in 1963 and Welwyn in 1969? A: GARDEN CITIES
Q: What is the term in French cookery meaning to fry lightly and quickly in little or no oil? A: SAUTÉ
Q: "Which film, winner of the 1991 Best Film Oscar, contains the line ""I do wish we could chat longer, but I'm having an old friend for dinner""?" A: SILENCE OF THE LAMBS
Q: Which winner of the 1953 Best Film Oscar is set in a Honolulu barracks immediately before and during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour? A: FROM HERE TO ETERNITY
Q: Which chain of clothes shops was founded in the 1960s by Barbara Hulaniki? A: BIBA
Q: In the 18th century a thief on horseback was a highwayman, what was the name of his pedestrian counterpart? A: FOOTPAD
Q: The athletic event the triathlon consists of running, swimming and what other event? A: CYCLING
Q: Who was US president immediately before Ronald Reagan? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: What was the name of the character played by Alec Guinness in the TV series Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy? A: GEORGE SMILEY
Q: Which South Atlantic island suffered a volcanic eruption in 1963, forcing the inhabitants to be evacuated to Britain? A: TRISTAN DA CUNHA
Q: What was the title of the 1975 TV series starring Peter Strauss and Nick Nolte as the brothers Rudy and Tom Jordache? A: RICH MAN, POOR MAN
Q: Which 1960s TV series featured the spymaster Alexander Waverley, played by Leo G Carroll? A: THE MAN FROM U.N.C.L.E.
Q: According to myth, which monster eventually killed by Theseus, inhabited and guarded the labyrinth of King Minos at Knossos? A: MINOTAUR
Q: Which name is common to both a type of snake and she dragon of Mount Parnassus that protected the Oracle at Delphi? A: PYTHON
Q: "Which singer had a 1970s number one hit with the song ""When I Need You?" A: LEO SAYER
Q: What is the better known name of the medical condition, Tinea Pedes? (the clue is in the Latin) A: ATHLETE'S FOOT
Q: Which authoress lived at Chawton House in Hampshire in the early years of the 19th century? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: The Catalan Dragons Rugby League team is based in which town in Southern France? A: PERPIGNAN
Q: Which TV programme turned a character named Zebedee into a star? A: THE MAGIC ROUNDABOUT
Q: "The Alexandre Dumas play, ""La Dame aux Camelias"" was the inspiration for which Verdi opera?" A: LA TRAVIATA
Q: Which spice, of Asiatic origin, is commonly used as a cheaper substitute for saffron? A: TURMERIC
Q: """The Ladies of the Vale"" is the popular name for the three spires of which cathedral in central England?" A: LICHFIELD
Q: In which English town or city is the Meadowhall shopping centre located? A: SHEFFIELD
Q: "In which Australian state is the location of the TV show, ""I'm a celebrity, get me out of here""?" A: QUEENSLAND
Q: What is the surname of the twins, Raphael and Fabio, who play football for Manchester Utd? A: DA SILVA
Q: The major body representing which medical profession is appropriately known as BAAPS? A: PLASTIC SURGEONS
Q: In November 2009, on which stage was the singer, Morrisey, hit on the head by a plastic beer container, causing him to walk off stage and cancel his performance?' A: LIVERPOOL ECHO ARENA
Q: Which cathedral in South West England is the only one to house a 24 hour clock, the second oldest surviving clock in England? A: WELLS
Q: What was the name of Dan Dare's co-pilot, in the comic strip adventures in the Eagle comic? A: DIGBY
Q: Which Puccini opera remained unfinished at the time of his death in 1924? A: TURANDOT
Q: "In the children's TV programme, ""The Magic Roundabout"", what was the name of the snail?" A: BRIAN
Q: In 1964, Boris Johnson, Mayor of London, was born in which major US city? A: NEW YORK
Q: "Who wrote the poem, which begins, ""She walks in beauty like the night. Of cloudless climes, and starry skies""?" A: LORD BYRON
Q: Which famous author lived at Bateman's, a Jacobean house in East Sussex, in the first half of the 20th century? A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: In 1765, who became the first English King to be born at Buckingham Palace? A: GEORGE IV
Q: Curtis Jackson, alias 50 Cent, is an American exponent of which type of music? A: RAP MUSIC
Q: Which herb is an essential ingredient in the Swedish salmon dish, Gravlax? A: DILL
Q: What was the name of the Russian submarine that sank, with all hands, in the Barents Sea in October 2000? A: KURSK
Q: In art, what name is given to a statue or painting of the Virgin Mary cradling the dead Christ? A: A PIETA
Q: "Derived from the Greek word for ""Breathless"", which noun denotes temporary cessation of breathing, especially during sleep?" A: APNOEA
Q: "Who played the part of Private Ryan in the 1998 film, ""Saving Private Ryan""?" A: MATT DAMON
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays is Orsino, the Duke of Illyria, one of the main characters? A: TWELFTH NIGHT
Q: Which American golfer gained his first major title, when he won the 2009 US Open? A: LUCAS GLOVER
Q: "Who wrote most of the operetta, ""The Tales of Hoffman"", which although unfinished at his death, was completed by Ernest Guiraud?" A: JACQUES OFFENBACH
Q: The statue of Eros, in Piccadilly in London, was the work of which sculptor? A: SIR ALFRED GILBERT
Q: Catherine of Braganza was the Queen of which British monarch? A: CHARLES II
Q: What nationality are people born in the state of Carinthia? A: AUSTRIAN
Q: Eleanor of Castille was the first Queen Consort of which English monarch? A: EDWARD I
Q: Who sculpted the statue of Christ of the Andes which stands above Rio de Janeiro? A: PAUL LANDOWSKI
Q: Which American golfer beat Tom Watson in a play-off to win the 2009 Open Golf championship at Turnberry? A: STEWART CINK
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays does the character, Mustardseed, appear? A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: "Who played the part of General Omar Bradley opposite George C Scott in the 1970 film, ""Patton""?" A: KARL MALDEN
Q: Liverpool FC co-owner, George Gillett, also owns which Canadian National Hockey League team? A: MONTREAL CANADIANS
Q: Extending from the caecum to the rectum, the ascending, transverse, descending and sigmoid are four sections of which part of the large intestine? A: THE COLON
Q: "The name of which Biblical character means, ""Father of Many""?" A: ABRAHAM
Q: Which was the only U.S. aircraft carrier sunk as a result of the Battle of Midway in 1942? A: USS YORKTOWN
Q: Which herb is a distinctive ingredient in Bearnaise sauce? A: TARRAGON
Q: "Which actress, nominated for her role in the 2008 film, ""Rachel's Getting Married"", shares her name with a famous historical wife?" A: ANNE HATHAWAY
Q: Which rapper is the husband of R and B superstar singer, Beyoncé? A: JAY Z
Q: Born in 1457, who was the last English King to be born in Wales? A: HENRY VII
Q: What is the name of the US financier jailed for 150 years for fraud in June 2009? A: BERNARD MADOFF
Q: "Which chef was the winner of the 2009 show, ""I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here""?" A: GINO d'ACAMPO
Q: What is the highest number on the Beaufort scale of wind measurement? A: 17
Q: The film Kes is based on which book by the author Barry Hines? A: A Kestrel for a Knave
Q: The Cato Street Conspiracy was a plot to kill which British Prime Minister? A: Lord Liverpool
Q: Which car manufacturer's name is taken from a divinity exalted by Zororaster? A: Mazda
Q: Kungsholmen, Norrmalm, Sodermalm and Ostermalm are the four districts of which European city? A: Stockholm
Q: On TV who played the detective Frank Cannon? A: William Conrad
Q: Which band's name was inspired by a novel by Herman Hesse? A: Steppenwolf
Q: Which English football league club is based in Cleethorpes? A: Grimsby Town
Q: Frenchman Henri Mouhot rediscovered which Cambodian religious monument in 1860? A: Angkor Wat
Q: Moshe Dayan, Danger Mouse and James Joyce were all noted for wearing what? A: Eyepatch
Q: Which actor played dodgy author Mel Hutchwright in Coronation Street? A: Sir Ian McKellen
Q: The Jordanian capital Amman formerly had the same name as which American city? A: Philadelphia
Q: Traditionally made for agricultural workers, which elongated suet crust dumpling has a meat filling at one end and a jam one at the other? A: Bedfordshire Clanger
Q: Which company originally produced the 'Matchbox' series of die cast toys? A: Lesney
Q: First used for test match cricket on 10 November 2000, the Bangabandhu National Stadium is in which country? A: Bangladesh
Q: In the Disney film Snow White, what is it that the Seven Dwarfs mine? A: Diamonds
Q: Which European capital city was a city-state known as Ledra in ancient times? A: Nicosia
Q: Meles meles is the Latin name for which British mammal? A: Badger
Q: Which song was a hit for Rose Royce in 1978 and for Jimmy Nail in 1985? A: Love Don't Live Here Anymore
Q: What is the derived SI unit of energy? A: Joule
Q: From which children's book did Pink Floyd take the title of their 1967 album 'Piper at the Gates of Dawn'? A: Wind in the Willows
Q: What name for the Internet, the World Wide Web etc was popularised by fiction author William Gibson in his novel Neuromancer? A: Cyberspace
Q: Anna Smashnova played which sport professionally until 2007? A: Tennis
Q: What is the highest number on the Mercalli scale of earthquake measurement? A: 12
Q: The film Apocalypse Now is based on which novella by the author Joseph Conrad? A: Heart of Darkness
Q: The Ridolfi Plot planned the assassination of which British monarch? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: Which car manufacturer's name is Latin for roll? A: Volvo
Q: Which band was named after the 18th century agriculturalist credited with inventing the seed drill? A: Jethro Tull
Q: Napoli is the capital of which Italian region? A: Campania
Q: What name is shared by a leader of the Peasants' Revolt in the 1300's and a Labour politician born in 1946? A: Jack Straw
Q: Which company was founded by David Quayle and Richard Block in Southampton in 1969? A: B & Q
Q: Originating in the Scottish town of Forfar, which pie is made from minced beef, and sometimes onions, in shortcrust pastry folded into a semi-circular shape? A: Bridie
Q: ma is the internet suffix for which country? A: Morocco
Q: Meccano produced which range of die cast toys? A: Dinky
Q: In the Latin American version of The Simpsons which character is known as Jefe Gorgory? A: Chief Wiggum
Q: In the Disney film Peter Pan what colour is Tinkerbell's dress? A: Green
Q: Which medical device, used for auscultation was invented by Rene Laennec in 1816? A: Stethoscope
Q: Who asked of a Cayman Islander, in 1994, `Aren't most of you descended from pirates?? A: Prince Philip
Q: Which European capital city was known as Vindobona in Roman times? A: Vienna
Q: Which song was a hit for Eddie Floyd in 1967 and for Amii Stewart in 1979? A: Knock on Wood
Q: Who had world concert tours entitled 'Drowned World', 'Confessions' and 'Blond Ambition? A: Madonna
Q: What is the derived SI unit of frequency? A: Hertz
Q: "The song ""Piper at the Gates of Dawn"" appears on the 1997 album 'The Healing Game', by which artist?" A: Van Morrison
Q: On the internet what is the derogatory retronym for normal paper mail? A: Snail Mail
Q: The city of St Albans stands on which river? A: River Ver
Q: "Which American entertainer says of herself ""It costs a lot of money to look this cheap""?" A: Dolly Parton
Q: In which country is the most easterly point of Africa? A: Somalia
Q: Who played `Wolfie' Smith in the TV comedy series Citizen Smith? A: Robert Lindsay
Q: How many pairs of ribs are in the human body? A: 12
Q: "In 2010 who left the message ""Dear Chief Secretary, I'm afraid there is no money. Kind regards - and good luck""?" A: Liam Byrne
Q: ASH, Action on Smoking and Health, is the anti-smoking lobby, by what acronym is the pro-smoking lobby known? A: FOREST
Q: Inspector Lestrade appears in novels featuring which detective? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: In cricket what score is known as 'Nelson'? A: 111
Q: In which month does the Scottish quarter day Candlemas fall? A: February
Q: In which Yorkshire town are the famous Five Rise Locks on the Leeds-Liverpool canal? A: Bingley
Q: Whose first solo no. 1 hit was Fight for this Love, released in 2009? A: Cheryl Cole
Q: What is the official language of Andorra? A: Catalan
Q: Which crop is processed in a `ginnery'? A: Cotton
Q: "Who, in the seventeenth century, said ""Desperate diseases require desperate remedies""?" A: Guy Fawkes
Q: In which country is the most northerly point of Africa? A: Tunisia
Q: The name of which English county is part of the name of the Queen Mother's unfortunate 1957 Grand National horse? A: Devon
Q: Ramshaw Rocks and Hen Cloud are in which National Park? A: Peak District
Q: What position is no.1 in rugby league and no.15 in rugby union? A: Full Back
Q: Which former sportsman presents the TV quiz show Divided? A: Andrew Castle
Q: Which American composer wrote the music for the songs Stardust and Georgia on my Mind? A: Hoagy Carmichael
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet, when written as a capital, looks like our letter P? A: Rho
Q: "Who left this message to James Callaghan in 1964 ""Good luck, old cock, sorry to leave it in such a mess""?" A: Reginald Maudling
Q: In which state is the waterfront in the film On the Waterfront? A: New Jersey
Q: Inspector Japp appears in novels featuring which detective? A: Hercule Poirot
Q: Which 16 century French navigator is credited with the discovery of the St Lawrence Seaway? A: Jacques Cartier
Q: Which word means an interaction between two different organisms living in close physical association usually to the advantage of both? A: Symbiosis
Q: What position is no.9 in rugby league and no.2 in rugby union? A: Hooker
Q: Who was the commander of the British forces who stopped the German advance into Egypt in 1942? A: (General) Auchinleck
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the mother of Solomon? A: Bathsheba
Q: In 1993, Arsenal won both the FA Cup and League Cup, beating which team in both finals? A: Sheffield Wednesday
Q: Yellowstone National Park lies mainly in Wyoming, partly in Montana and also in which other state? A: Idaho
Q: Which animal appears on the coat of arms and flag of Berlin? A: Bear
Q: "Which author said ""A classic is something everyone wants to have read but nobody wants to read""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet, when written as a capital, looks like a triangle? A: Delta
Q: "Which American actress said of herself ""I'm as pure as the driven slush""?" A: Tallulah Bankhead
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the mother of Isaac? A: Sarah
Q: The line 'The course of true love never did run smooth' appears in which of Shakespeare's plays? A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: Who was the first man to circumnavigate Australia in his ship The Investigator between 1796 and 1803, the largest island in Bass Strait is named after him? A: Matthew Flinders
Q: What name is given to the passage of a solvent from a less concentrated into a more concentrated solution through a semi-permeable membrane? A: Osmosis
Q: In 1997, which team lost in both the FA Cup and League Cup finals, to Leicester City in the League Cup and Chelsea in the FA Cup and were also relegated from the Premier League? A: Middlesbrough
Q: Who, in 2008, won an Oscar posthumously? A: Heath Ledger
Q: Which is the largest container port in the UK? A: Felixstowe
Q: The Admiral Benbow Inn features in Stevenson's novel Treasure Island; what was the name of the other inn referred to in the book? A: SPYGLASS
Q: Which town in Northamptonshire houses the Alfred East Art Gallery? A: KETTERING
Q: Which Danish explorer discovered Alaska in the eighteenth century? A: VITUS BERING
Q: Which star is the brightest in the constellation Taurus? A: ALDEBARAN
Q: Having subsequently released a CD single called The Climb, who won the 2009 X Factor? A: JOE McELDERRY
Q: On view in London's National Gallery, the work The Supper at Emmaus is the work of which painter? A: CARAVAGGIO
Q: Who was the first chairman of BBC TV's Call My Bluff? A: ROBIN RAY
Q: Which country was chosen by FIFA to host the football world cup in 2014? A: BRAZIL
Q: Which actress was born Marjorie Robertson in 1904? A: DAME ANNA NEAGLE
Q: The majority of English Monarchs since the Norman Conquest were interred in either Westminster or Windsor, but where was King John buried? A: WORCESTER CATHEDRAL
Q: A person who suffers from clinophobia is afraid of what? A: BEDS
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens do the characters Susan Nipper and Captain Cuttle appear? A: DOMBEY AND SON
Q: Who was the notorious lawyer and associate of Thomas Cromwell who played a key role in the Dissolution of the Monasteries? A: RICHARD RICH
Q: In April 2002, which footballer became the youngest England captain since Bobby Moore? A: MICHAEL OWEN
Q: In international tour cycling, which colour of jersey is worn by the 'Best Rider under 25'? A: WHITE
Q: Which former World Heavyweight boxing champion was nicknamed the 'Cinderella Man'? A: JAMES J BRADDOCK
Q: Give a year in the life of the scientist Galileo Galilei. A: 1564-1642
Q: What is the collective name of the four holy books of the Hindu religion? A: THE VEDAS
Q: What was the given Christian name of the fashion designer 'Coco' Chanel? A: GABRIELLE
Q: Upon which author's best-selling novel was the film 'Psycho' based? A: ROBERT BLOCH
Q: England beat Australia at Lords in 2009 for the first time at that venue since 1934. Who was the UK's Prime Minister then? A: RAMSEY McDONALD
Q: Leporello is a principal character in which opera? A: DON GIOVANNI
Q: Which actor, (the eighth Doctor Who) played the role just once in a 1996 TV movie? A: PAUL McGANN
Q: Which city is the capital of the Central American Republic of Belize? A: BELMOPAN
Q: Who managed Scotland in the 1986 World Cup campaign? A: ALEX FERGUSON
Q: Which South American goffer won the 2009 US Masters? A: ANGEL CABRERA
Q: Who managed England during the 1982 World Cup? A: RON GREENWOOD
Q: Which English king was married to Philippa of Hainault? A: EDWARD III
Q: Led for 3 days by veteran Tom Watson, who finally won the 2009 Open Golf Championship? A: STEWART CINK
Q: Which opera contains the famous Anvil Chorus in its second act? A: IL TROVATORE
Q: Which central American city is the capital of the Republic of Honduras? A: TEGUCIGALPA
Q: The name of which Spanish explorer who discovered the Missisippi river in 1539, was remembered in the make of a 1950s US automobile? A: HERNANDO DE SOTO
Q: In Stevenson's Treasure Island, who was the coxswain of the Hispaniola? A: ISRAEL HANDS
Q: The Haworth Art Gallery is located in which Lancashire town? A: ACCRINGTON .
Q: Which painter, who reputedly sold only one work in his lifetime, had an art dealer brother called Theo? A: VINCENT VAN GOGH
Q: Who was the valet of Prince Romiro in Rossini's opera La Cenerentola, also a well-known pantomime character? A: DANDINI
Q: In the Sikh religion, what name is given to the Holy Book ontaining the teachings of the gurus? A: ADI GRANTH
Q: Who was the author of the best-selling novel on which the film The Exorcist was based? A: WILLIAM PETER BLATTY
Q: Who is the patron saint of dancers and comedians? A: St. VITUS
Q: What name is given to a stone anchor and also colloquially to a Leading Seaman in the Royal Navy? A: KILLICK
Q: Who starred in the title role of the boxing movie 'The Cinderella Man'? A: RUSSELL CROWE
Q: Give a year in the life of the scientist Nicolaus Copernicus. A: 1473-1543
Q: In which Dickens novel do the characters Thomas Traddles and James Steerforth appear? A: DAVID COPPERFIELD
Q: Which well known film and TV actress was born Joyce Frankenberg in 1951? A: JANE SEYMOUR
Q: Which city was selected in 2009 as the venue for the 2016 Olympic games? A: RIO DE JANEIRO
Q: Of what is gymnophobia a fear? A: NUDITY
Q: Buried in neither Westminster nor Windsor, where is the tomb of Edward II? A: GLOUCESTER CATHEDRAL
Q: In the Tour de France, which jersey is worn by the leader of the 'King of the Mountains' category? A: POLKA DOT
Q: Savernake Forest is located in which English county? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Who in Anglo-Saxon legend is the god of metal working? A: WAYLAND
Q: In the Old Testament, who lived in the land of Uz? A: JOB
Q: What is the lowest number greater than 1 that is both a square and a cube of two different whole numbers? A: 64
Q: Who is chairing the 2009/10 Inquiry into the Iraq War? A: SIR JOHN CHILCOT
Q: Vivaldi's 'Four Seasons' are 4 concertos for which instrument? A: VIOLIN
Q: 'Eleanor Rigby' and 'Yellow Submarine' first appeared on which Beatles album of 1966? A: REVOLVER
Q: Who wrote the 2005 bestseller 'The Shadow of the Wind' set in post Spanish Civil War Barcelona? A: CARLOS RUIZ ZAFON
Q: Who after Real Madrid have won the European Cup/Champions League Trophy the most times? A: AC MILAN
Q: Who was the Chief Medical Officer for England from 1998 to May 2010? A: SIR LIAM DONALDSON
Q: In York what were located originally in the famous street known as the Shambles? A: BUTCHER'S
Q: Which European country's flag is a vertical tricolour black, yellow and red (in that order left to right)? A: BELGIUM
Q: John Adams, 2nd President of the USA, was the delegate to the Continental Congress for which American state? A: MASSACHUSETTS
Q: Which was the last country to join the G8 in 1997 (changing the G7 to G8)? A: RUSSIA
Q: Who hosted the 2010 ICC World Twenty20 Tournament? A: WEST INDIES
Q: In the 2010 General Election a constituency in which city was the first to declare its result? A: SUNDERLAND
Q: What does the Swedish name Bjorn literally mean? A: BEAR
Q: What is a naevus, or nevus? A: A BIRTHMARK or MOLE
Q: The 2009 film 'Nowhere Boy' concerns the teenage years of which singer? A: JOHN LENNON
Q: Which author said 'Probably the Battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton, but the opening battles of all subsequent wars have been lost there'? A: GEORGE ORWELL
Q: Which actress is married to Taylor Hackford? A: HELEN MIRREN
Q: Who is the TESCO boss who recently announced his intention to retire? A: SIR TERRY LEAHY
Q: Which cricketer has scored the most test runs without making a test century? A: SHANE WARNE
Q: In Marvel Comics which God is the alter ego of Donald Blake? A: THOR
Q: Who directed the 2004 Oscar winning film 'The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'? A: PETER JACKSON
Q: What is the highest number that is a common factor (HCF) of 32 and 48? A: 16
Q: Which QC chaired an enquiry into MPs expenses in 2009? A: SIR THOMAS LEGG
Q: Rachmaninov's 'Rhapsody on a theme of Paganini' is a work for which solo instrument and orchestra? A: PIANO
Q: 'Yesterday' and 'Ticket to Ride' first appeared on which Beatles album of 1965? A: HELP!
Q: Which species of bird can be Reed, Corn or Cirl? A: BUNTING
Q: Who wrote the 2006 best seller 'The Book Thief' set in Munich during World War II? A: MARKUS ZUSAK
Q: In Edinburgh what name is given to the streets that link the Castle with Holyrood Palace? A: ROYAL MILE
Q: Which European country's flag is a horizontal tricolour red, white and green (in that order top to bottom)? A: HUNGARY
Q: Thomas Jefferson, 3rd President of the USA, was the delegate to the Continental Congress for which American state? A: VIRGINIA
Q: In which country will the 2011 Rugby Union World Cup be held? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Which famous singer said 'I don't know anything about music. In my line you don't have to'? A: ELVIS PRESLEY
Q: The 2009 film `Inglourious Basterds' is set during which conflict? A: WORLD WAR II
Q: Who is the BP Chief Executive recently quizzed by the US Congress? A: TONY HAYWARD
Q: Which English county borders only one other county? A: CORNWALL
Q: Beaune, Nuits St George and Chambertin are wines from which French wine region? A: BURGUNDY
Q: In a 2010 film Percy Jackson is the son of which Greek God? A: POSEIDON
Q: Who directed the 2005 Oscar winning film 'Million Dollar Baby'? A: CLINT EASTWOOD
Q: By population, what is the second largest city in Belgium? A: ANTWERP
Q: What is the capital of the French region of Brittany? A: RENNES
Q: Dyce airport serves which city? A: ABERDEEN
Q: What is the birthstone for September? A: SAPPHIRE
Q: Which Shakespeare play takes place in the city of Messina, Sicily? A: Much Ado About Nothing
Q: Which group from Teignmouth has issued albums 'Black Holes & Revelations' and 'The Resistance' A: Muse
Q: Which French Football Ligue 1 team's name includes the title Girondins? A: Bordeaux
Q: Born in Chavaniac in France which general fought alongside General Washington in the American revolutionary war of 1776 - 1783? A: Marquis de Lafayette
Q: Hobgoblin, Fidler's Elbow and Goliath are brewed by which brewer based at Witney in Oxfordshire? A: Wychwood Brewery
Q: Who is the patron saint of Norway? A: St. Olaf
Q: Who wrote the songs and music for Easter Parade? A: Irving Berlin
Q: Name the Nigerian boxer who boxed in Liverpool from 1951, became the World Featherweight champion in Paris, in June 1957 stopping Cherif Hamia. A: Hogan 'Kid' Bassey
Q: Taraxacum spp is the Latin name for which genus of common wild garden plant? A: Dandelion
Q: Which UK supermarket has its headquarters in Preston? A: Booths
Q: What colour is the artist's colour called vermillion? A: Red
Q: Later holding a cabinet post, who finished second to Edward Heath in the 1965 Conservative Party Leadership Election? A: Reginald Maudling
Q: What name is given to the handiwork made from the byproducts of harvesting marine mammals? A: Scrimshaw
Q: Catherine Morland is a leading character in which novel? A: Northanger Abbey
Q: Whose symphony no3 is subtitled 'Scottish'? A: Felix Mendelssohn
Q: Anthophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Flowers
Q: In Greek mythology who is the God of Death? A: Thanatos
Q: Who was the team principal of the Renault Fl team who resigned following the 'Crashgate scandal' in 2009? A: Flavio Briatore
Q: The dhole is what kind of animal? A: Dog
Q: In which city is Da Vinci's Last Supper on display? A: Milan
Q: Which chemical element, No 36, is named for the Greek for 'hidden one'? A: Krypton
Q: Which Shakespeare play takes place in the Kingdom of Navarre? A: Love's Labour Lost
Q: Which group from Abingdon has issued albums 'Hail to the thief and 'In Rainbows'? A: Radiohead
Q: The French Football Ligue 1 team Marseille have which other name in their title? A: Olympique
Q: Born at Pau in France which general later became King of Sweden? A: Jean Baptiste Bernadotte
Q: Who narrated the English version of Pocoyo? A: Stephen Fry
Q: Bitter and Twisted, Old Engine Oil and Schiehallion are brewed by which brewer based at Alva in Clackmannanshire? A: Harviestoun Brewery
Q: Who is the patron saint of Sweden? A: St. Brigit
Q: Who wrote the lyrics and music for A Little Night Music? A: Stephen Sondheim
Q: Rumex spp is the Latin name for which genus of common wild garden plant? A: Dock
Q: Who played the male lead in the 1958 film 'Bell, Book & Candle'? A: James Stewart
Q: In the abbrevation CAFOD - for what does the 'O' stand? A: Overseas
Q: From which piece of literature do the following lines come? 'The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea, The ploughman homeward plods his weary way' A: Elegy written in a Country Churchyard
Q: Whernside is the highest peak in which National Park? A: Yorkshire Dales
Q: What colour is the artist's colour called amaranth? A: Purple
Q: Later holding a cabinet post, who finished second to Harold Wilson in the 1963 Labour Party Leadership Election? A: George Brown.
Q: What name is given to leather now usually made from shark and ray skin? A: Shagreen
Q: Dealing with the movement of particles, to which scientific process does Graham's Law refer? A: Diffusion
Q: Whose symphony No3 is subtitled 'Rhenish'? A: Robert Schumann
Q: Give a year in the life of the explorer Jacques Cartier? A: 1491 - 1557
Q: How is food cooked 'en papillotte'? A: In paper
Q: Barophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Gravity
Q: Who was the head coach of Harlequins RUFC who resigned following the 'Bloodgate scandal'? A: Dean Richards
Q: The gaur is what kind of animal? A: (Wild) Cattle
Q: Who painted 'Liberty Leading the People' on display in the Louvre? A: Eugene Delacroix
Q: Whose quote? 'No man is rich enough to buy back his past'? A: Oscar' Wilde
Q: Who was the Secretary of State for Health as at February 2010? A: Andy Burnham
Q: Which Shakespeare play takes place in Vienna? A: Measure for Measure
Q: In Greek mythology who is the Goddess of Strife? A: Eris
Q: What is the name of the UKTV digital channel based on repeats of recent BBC programmes such as Top Gear? A: Dave
Q: "Who.wrote the series of books that include ""I Can Make You Skip"", ""I Can Make You Thin"" and ""I Can Make You Rich""?" A: Paul McKenna
Q: Three Mile Island is in which US state? A: Pennsylvania
Q: "Whose ""Very Best of"" album released in 2009, made her the oldest person at the time ever to appear in the top 20 album charts?" A: Vera Lynn
Q: Which artist married Saskia van Uylenburg in 1634? A: Rembrandt
Q: Grupo Modelo and Femsit are the two major brewing companies in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Brad Pitt plays the part of Benjamin Button on film, who wrote the book on which the film is based? A: F Scott Fitzgerald
Q: From 1981 to 2005, the Perrier Awards were made at which festival? A: Edinburgh
Q: Who was President of the USA between Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson? A: William H Taft
Q: Name the US President whose niece was his First Lady. A: James Buchanan
Q: Which company was founded in 1998 by the merger of Grand Metropolitan and Guinness? A: Diageo
Q: Many cities, including Sofia, Tallinn, St Petersburg, Warsaw, Jerusalem and Belgrade, have cathedrals dedicated to which Russian saint? A: Alexander Nevsky
Q: The Oscar winning film 'Aviator' was about which man? A: Howard Hughes
Q: The oldest airline in the world still operating under its original name was founded in 1919, which is it? A: KLM
Q: Which football club won the FA Cup' in 1951, 52 and 55 but haven't won a major domestic trophy since? A: Newcastle United
Q: What do 'Barb'' charts show? A: TV ratings
Q: Three angels are mentioned in the Bible, Gabriel, Michael and which other? A: Lucifer
Q: The Mariinsky Ballet was formerly known by which name? A: The Kirov Ballet
Q: Who was the first National Hunt jockey to ride more than 3000 winners? A: A P McCoy
Q: If a set of mathematical data is arranged in order, what name is given to the middle value? A: Median
Q: Which Dickens novel is subtitled A Tale of The Riots of Eighty? A: Barnaby Rudge
Q: Which chief's vision led to the Sioux's victory at the 1876 Battle of Little Bighorn? A: Sitting Bull
Q: Who was the US lawyer who defended John Scopes on charges of teaching evolution in 1925? A: (Clarence) Darrow
Q: Which fashion items are made by. Christian Louboutin? A: Shoes
Q: The Egyptian goddess of love, Hathor, has the head of which animal? A: Cow
Q: In which city would you find the following; Aventine, Caelian, Capitoline, Esquiline, Palatine, Quirinal and Viminal? A: Rome
Q: Yes, No and which other word are found on an Ouija board? A: Goodbye
Q: Who played the part of Mel Hutchwright on 'Coronation Street'? A: Sir Ian McKellen
Q: Which author wrote 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas' and was known as the inventor of `gonzo' journalism? A: Hunter S Thompson
Q: Published in 1925, ' The Reckoning' was the first volume of which work? A: Mein Kampf
Q: What was the name of the seat at King Arthur's Round Table that was reserved for the knight who would one day find the Holy Grail? A: The Siege Perilous
Q: What is the surname of the only father and son to have scored Test match centuries for England? A: Broad
Q: Who had a no. 1 hit in 2005 with the song 'You 're Beautiful'? A: James Blunt
Q: The winner of which particular sporting competition wins the Coupe des Mousquetaires? A: French Open Tennis
Q: Cassius Coolidge painted pictures of dogs playing which game? A: Poker
Q: Which radio station, which closed in 1992, was 'Two - O - Eight, your station of the stars'? A: Radio Luxembourg
Q: The words 'defend the children of the poor and punish the wrongdoer' are carved on the wall of which London building? A: Old Bailey
Q: During August 2009, in which country was the ruling party voted out of office after 54 years of virtually unbroken rule? A: Japan
Q: Who is the only female judge sitting in Britain's Supreme Court? A: Baroness Hale
Q: "Whose novel ""The Original of Laura"" has finally been published 32 years after his death?" A: Vladimir Nabokov
Q: The world's oldest film festival awards the 'Golden Lion', in which city? A: Venice
Q: Which American singer died in Cardiff in April 2006, whilst on tour? A: Gene Pitney
Q: Which US city is known as the 'Crescent City'? A: New Orleans
Q: In the Bible, who was 'eyeless in Gaza'? A: Samson
Q: In which sport was the 'Gordon Bennett Cup' contested? A: Motor Racing
Q: Which private detective last appeared in the 1959 novel `Playback'? A: Philip Marlowe
Q: Which artist (1844-1910) painted many jungle scenes (although he never left France) and landscapes of Paris? A: Henri Rousseau
Q: In which country did the 'Carnation Revolution' take place in 1934? A: Portugal
Q: Which famous director's first film was 'Sugarland Express'? A: Stephen Spielberg
Q: What was the first name of the widow of Martin Luther King? A: Coretta
Q: Who wrote the line 'The Child is Father of the Man'? A: WORDSWORTH
Q: In football, two men have each won the European Footballer of the Year Award on three occasions, Johann Cruff is one, name the other. A: MICHEL PLATINI
Q: What was the real name of the criminal known as Papillon? A: HENRI CHARRIERE
Q: Which German City was once head of the Hanseatic League, and is known for its marzipan? A: LUBECK
Q: Name Frank Sinatra's Oscar winning song from the 1959 movie, `A Hole in the Head'. A: HIGH HOPES
Q: In which decade of the 20 century was the Sydney Harbour Bridge officially opened? A: 1930's
Q: The magazine 'Private Eye' gave the nickname 'The Bouncing Czech' to which man? A: ROBERT MAXWELL
Q: 'You have been in Afghanistan, I perceive' were the first recorded words spoken by which literary character? A: SHERLOCK HOLMES
Q: Lentigenes is the medical term for what? A: FRECKLES
Q: Which character was the most famous creation of cartoon film animator, Walter Lantz? A: WOODY WOODPECKER
Q: There are two perennial vegetables, rhubarb and which other? A: ASPARAGUS
Q: According to Christian tradition which saint was the mother of the Virgin Mary? A: ANNE
Q: The Spanish drink calimocho consists of red wine mixed with what? A: COLA
Q: Which newspaper introduced the Sudoku Puzzle to the UK in 2004? A: THE TIMES
Q: What is the highest peak in the Republic of Ireland? A: CARRAUNTOOHIL
Q: Who composed the opera 'The Rape of Lucretia'? A: BENJAMIN BRITTEN
Q: In the Scottish Football League, in which City do St Johnstone play their home matches? A: PERTH
Q: Who was four years late in collecting his Nobel Prize for Literature which was originally awarded in 1970? A: SOLZHENITSYN
Q: Name the Prime Minister of Australia from 1968 to 1971 who fostered Australia's involvement in the Vietnam War? A: JOHN GORTON
Q: Alphabetically, which is the first team in cricket's County Championship? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: In which film did Sean Connery play Franciscan Friar William of Baskerville? A: THE NAME OF THE ROSE
Q: Which poet wrote the line 'Gather Ye Rosebuds Whilst Ye May'? A: ROBERT HERRICK
Q: From which club did Everton sign winger David Ginola in 2002? A: ASTON VILLA
Q: What was the real name of the criminal known as 'The Monster of Dusseldorf? A: PETER KURTEN
Q: The name of which European capital translates into English as 'Log Island'? A: STOCKHOLM
Q: Name the Oscar winning song from Mary Poppins? A: CHIM CHIM CHER-EE
Q: In which famous school was the game of squash invented in the 20th century? A: HARROW SCHOOL
Q: What year saw the abolition of the death penalty for murder in Britain? A: 1969
Q: The headquarters of Interpol are in which city? A: LYONS
Q: Which stage and screen actor was born in Huyton, Liverpool in 1908? A: REX HARRISON
Q: Who has played Queen Elizabeth I on TV and Queen Elizabeth II in film in the last decade? A: HELEN MIRREN
Q: What kind of plant is a saguaro? A: CACTUS
Q: The Old Testament contains two instances of talking animals, the serpent in the garden is one, name the other? A: BALAAM'S ASS
Q: What is the name of the soft white Belgian cheese with a very strong smell and flavour? A: LIMBURGER
Q: Name the musician who succeeded Cherie Blair as Chancellor of the Liverpool John Moores University in 2007. A: BRIAN MAY
Q: Which is the oldest Sunday national newspaper in the UK still in circulation? A: OBSERVER
Q: In the Republic of Ireland, in which town or city are the administrative HQ for the County of Kerry? A: TRALEE
Q: In which city is the novel and film 'Saturday Night and Sunday Morning' set? A: NOTTINGHAM
Q: In which city are the HQ of the University of Warwick located? A: COVENTRY
Q: Who composed the opera `Bluebeards Castle? A: BARTOK
Q: Name the only Quaker to be elected President of the United States? A: RICHARD M NIXON
Q: In the Scottish Football League, which team plays its home matches in Dumfries? A: QUEEN OF THE SOUTH
Q: What is the name of the chief island of the Seychelles? A: MAHE
Q: What is the name of the knife with a curved blade that is associated with the Gurkhas? A: KUKRI
Q: Glen Ford played which legendary golfer in the 1950's Hollywood biopic, 'Follow the Sun'? A: BEN HOGAN
Q: Name the lake in Ethiopia which is the source of the Blue Nile? A: LAKE TANA
Q: Name the castle in the Isle of Wight where Charles I was imprisoned. A: CARISBROOKE
Q: Which movie musical with songs by Tom Watts and Crystal Gayle did Francis Ford Coppola direct? A: ONE FROM THE HEART
Q: Born in 1811, Chang and Eng were officially the world's first what? A: SIAMESE TWINS
Q: The Wood Sorrell plant is more commonly known as what? A: SHAMROCK
Q: FITA is the World Governing Body in which sport? A: ARCHERY
Q: Which actor played the role of Osric uncredited in Kenneth Branagh's film version of Hamlet? A: ROBIN WILLIAMS
Q: What is the name of Cristiano Ronaldo's designer label and boutique? A: CR7
Q: The motor racing circuit of Mallory Park is in which county? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: Which tennis player holds the record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles? A: MARGARET COURT
Q: The Rodgers and Hart musical 'The Boys from Syracuse' is based on which Shakespeare play? A: THE COMEDY OF ERRORS
Q: Of which country is Vaclav Klaus the current President? A: CZECH REPUBLIC
Q: Ben Fogle, the TV presenter and adventurer is the son of which well-known actress? A: JULIA FOSTER
Q: Who speaks the only word in Mel Brooks' 1976 film 'Silent Movie'? A: MARCEL MARCEAU
Q: Name the science fiction author of 'I, Robot'. A: ISAAC ASIMOV
Q: In which year were £1 coins introduced? A: 1983
Q: On which horse-racing track is the Rowley Mile? A: NEWMARKET
Q: With a seating capacity of 150 000, in which country is the largest football stadium in the world? A: NORTH KOREA
Q: Shirley, Harbinger and Moneymaker are varieties of what? A: TOMATOES
Q: Which is the longest European river that drains into the Atlantic Ocean? A: TAGUS
Q: In the term ESOL, for what does the O stand? A: OTHER
Q: Name the fashion designer murdered outside his Miami Beach home in 1997. A: GIANNI VERSACE
Q: Who was the founder of the Sikh religion? A: GURU NANAK
Q: Name the British cyclist who won 6 stages of the 2009 Tour de France. A: MARK CAVENDISH
Q: Mrs Todgers is a character in which Dickens novel? A: MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT
Q: Which musical is set in the fictional English town of Everington? A: BILLY ELLIOT
Q: Who was the creator of the TV comedy series Last of the Summer Wine? A: ROY CLARKE
Q: Name the landlocked country which has borders with Kosovo, Serbia, Bulgaria, Greece and Albania. A: MACEDONIA
Q: What is the name of Prospero's daughter in Shakespeare's 'The Tempest'? A: MIRANDA
Q: Who was the author of the literary work 'A Mask presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634' a work more commonly known as 'Comus'? A: JOHN MILTON
Q: In the traditional English language nursery rhyme 'Solomon Grundy', on which day did he 'take ill'? A: THURSDAY
Q: The motor racing circuit of Thruxton is in which county? A: HAMPSHIRE
Q: In which country is El Alamein? A: EGYPT
Q: Which horse-racing track is at Prestbury Park? A: CHELTENHAM
Q: Give a year in the life of Edward I (Longshanks). A: 1239-1307
Q: Name the photographer, stage and film designer, well-known for his fashion photography and society portraits. He won Academy Awards for costume design for 'My Fair Lady' & `Gigi'. A: CECIL BEATON
Q: Alaska, Laxton's progress and Mr Big are varieties of what? A: PEAS
Q: Who was appointed captain of the US golf team for the 2010 Ryder Cup? A: COREY PAVIN
Q: Which is the longest European river that drains into the Mediterranean Sea? A: EBRO
Q: In the term NIACE for what does the A stand? A: ADULT
Q: Dick Swiveller is a character in which Dickens novel? A: THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP
Q: By what name is the medical term epistaxis more commonly known? A: NOSEBLEED
Q: In which year did Rudolf Nureyev defect to the West? A: 1961
Q: Which European country has land borders with Austria, Hungary, Italy and Croatia? A: SLOVENIA
Q: In 'The Tempest' what is the name of the monster, son of Sycorax the witch? A: CALIBAN
Q: In the Scottish folk song and nursery rhyme, who was 'the man who lived in the moon'? A: AIKEN DRUM
Q: What is the stage name of Dylan Mills? A: DIZZEE RASCAL
Q: Which Greek philosopher founded the Stoics? A: ZENO
Q: Which novel of 1889 features a dog called Montmorency? A: Three Men in a Boat
Q: In information technology, for what does the L stand in LAN? A: Local
Q: Limestone is classed as which of the three main rock types? A: Sedimentary
Q: Which concert venue is the home of the Northern Sinfonia? A: The Sage Gateshead
Q: Who was the founder and first Artistic Director of the Royal Ballet? A: Dame Ninette de Valois
Q: What is the nationality of record-breaking sprinter Usain Bolt? A: Jamaican
Q: Which sporting event traces its roots to a match between Britain and the US at Gleneagles in 1921? A: Ryder Cup
Q: Which stage musical features The Lambeth Walk and Leaning on a Lamp Post? A: Me and My Girl
Q: "Which tennis player won the ""golden grand slam"" of all four grand slam titles and an Olympic Gold in 1986?" A: Steffi Graf
Q: Which common wildflower has the Latin name Bellis Perennis? A: Daisy
Q: According to Homer, what was the name of the Cyclops blinded by Odysseus? A: Polyphemus
Q: Written in 1830 which composer's major symphony has the alternative title Episode in the Life of an Artist? A: Hector Berlioz
Q: Which European country's currency is the forint? A: Hungary
Q: With what type of shop is Charing Cross Road in London traditionally associated? A: Bookshop
Q: Which UK city has the area dialling code 0113? A: Leeds
Q: Who is declared King at the end of Macbeth? A: Malcolm
Q: Give a year in the life of the composer Camille Saint-Saens. A: 1835 - 1921
Q: To which order of mammals does the lemur belong? A: Primates
Q: The TV series The Wire was set in which US city? A: Baltimore
Q: In which English city was Isambard Kingdom Brunel born in 1806? A: Portsmouth
Q: Who painted The Ambassadors, which hangs in the National Gallery? A: Hans Holbein
Q: Who had their first UK number one hit in May 1999 with Swear It Again? A: Westlife
Q: "Which sauce gets its name from the Italian for ""pound"" or ""crush""?" A: Pesto
Q: Brideshead is the seat of which family in Evelyn Waugh's novel? A: Marchmain
Q: With which trade is Hatton Garden in London traditionally associated? A: Jewellery
Q: Which UK city has the area dialling code 0117? A: Bristol
Q: When Roger Federer achieved a career grand slam in 2009, he was the first man to do so since who in 1999? A: Andre Agassi
Q: Which chemical element, atomic number 51, used to be called Stibium? A: Antimony
Q: What is the nationality of Paralympic sprinter Oscar Pistorius? A: South African
Q: Which surrealist experimental and fashion photographer was born in Philadelphia in 1890? A: Man Ray
Q: To which group of mammals does the possum belong? A: Marsupials
Q: Engineer, George Stephenson was born in a village outside which English city in 1781? A: Newcastle upon Tyne
Q: Based on their geological formation, what type of mountains are the Alps? A: Fold
Q: Which concert venue is the home of the Halle orchestra? A: Bridgewater Hall
Q: Who was the founder and first Director of the National Theatre? A: Sir Laurence Olivier
Q: Who had their first UK number one hit in July 1993 with Pray? A: Take That
Q: Who composed his first symphony, subtitled Winter Daydreams in 1866? A: Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
Q: For which sporting trophy is competition still rooted in a challenge to the holders? A: Americas Cup
Q: In which US city was the original TV series CSI based? A: Las Vegas
Q: Which English football league club play their home games at Boundary Park? A: Oldham Athletic
Q: Five Anglican Bishops automatically sit in the House of Lords: the Archbishops of Canterbury and York and the Bishops of Durham and London are four, what is the title of the fifth? A: Bishop of Winchester
Q: Which Norwegian prince delivers the closing lines of Hamlet? A: Fortinbras
Q: Which common wildflowers belong to the Galanthus family? A: Snowdrop
Q: According to Homer, who was the Queen of Troy? A: Hecuba
Q: Which European country's currency is the lev? A: Bulgaria
Q: In mobile phone technology, for what does the G stand in 3G? A: Generation
Q: Who painted Diana and Actaeon, acquired for the nation by the National Gallery and National Gallery of Scotland in 2009? A: Titian
Q: In geometry, how many vertices has a cube? A: Eight
Q: Paper sizes are usually designated by the prefix A - what prefix do envelope sizes have? A: C
Q: In which film of 1995 did Robert De Niro and Al Pacino appear on screen together for the first time? A: Heat
Q: What is the capital of the Canadian province of British Columbia? A: Victoria
Q: Which 3 letter word beginning with S has the longest entry in the Oxford English Dictionary (2nd edition)? A: Set
Q: Who is the patron saint of locksmiths and clockmakers? A: St Peter
Q: In the Olympic Games those placed first to third receive medals, what is awarded to those finishing fourth to eighth? A: Diplomas
Q: On which TV programme has the voice of Marcus Bentley been regularly heard for the last ten years? A: Big Brother
Q: On which day of the week are US presidential elections traditionally held? A: Tuesday
Q: Which European country was the Roman province of Lusitania? A: Portugal
Q: Daniel Arap Moi became president of which country in 1978 on the death of the country's first president? A: Kenya
Q: Which part of a bird is known formally as the furcula? A: Wishbone
Q: Which famous scientist married his cousin Emma Wedgwood? A: Charles Darwin
Q: Which famous military leader was Deputy Commander of NATO forces from 1951 to 1958? A: Montgomery
Q: At which racecourse did Lester Piggott ride both his first and last winners? A: Haydock Park
Q: What is the common name of the lymphatic tissue between the back of the nose and the throat? A: Adenoids
Q: Which creature's name is also the term given to three strikes in a row in a game of ten-pin bowling? A: Turkey
Q: Half of the world's mountain gorillas live in the Virunga National Park, in which country? A: (Democratic Republic of the) Congo
Q: How are `Mistress Ford' and `Mistress Page' known in the title of a Shakespeare play? A: The Merry Wives of Windsor
Q: Prior to the Law Resform Act (1996), the charge of murder could apply only if the victim died within what period from the time of the offence? A: A year and a day
Q: In Jerusalem, what is the 'Yad Vashem;? A: Holocaust Memorial museum
Q: Whose single 'Evergreen' was the best-selling record in the UK in the decade to December 31st 2009? A: Will Young
Q: Prior to World War 2, racing cars were painted in different colours according to which country they represented, what colour were cars representing Germany? A: Silver
Q: On which river does Leeds stand? A: Aire
Q: What name is given to the small metal discs around the frame of a tambourine? A: Jingles
Q: In Bram Stoker's 'Dracula', in which English town was Dracula washed ashore? A: Whitby
Q: Comedo is the medical term for which blemish? A: Blackhead
Q: At which battle of 1757 did Robert Clive defeat the Nawab of Bengal? A: Plassey
Q: Which 19th century writer wrote a collection of stories for children which included 'The Happy Prince' and 'The Selfish Giant'? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which British scientist, working at CERN in 1994, developed and launched the World Wide Web? A: Tim Berners-Lee
Q: What was the name of the car that featured in the TV programme `The Dukes of Hazzard'? A: The General Lee
Q: Who composed 'Land of Hope and Glory'? A: Edward Elgar
Q: In which year was the General Strike in Britain? A: 1926
Q: Whose song, Only Want To Be With You', was the first to be played on 'Top of the Pops'? A: Dusty Springfield
Q: 'Dusty Bin' featured on which popular 1980s TV game show? A: 3-2-1
Q: How was the London hospital 'St Mary Bethlehem' better known? A: Bedlam
Q: 'Tucker's Luck' was a spin-off from which children's TV series? A: Grange Hill
Q: Which island is separated from the Scottish mainland by the Sound of Sleat? A: Skye
Q: Which TV programme has been presented by Lisa Riley, Jonathan Wilkes and Harry Hill? A: You've Been Framed
Q: In 1964 a song about Heloisa Eneida Menezes Paes Pinto was a big hit around the world, what was its title? A: The Girl From Ipanema
Q: Elaine Page had a top ten hit in 1981 with which song from the musical 'Cats'? A: Memory
Q: In which war did the Battle of Blenheim take place? A: Spanish Succession
Q: Which jazz singer was accompanied for nearly 30 years by John Chilton's Feetwarmers? A: George Melly
Q: In 1929 which American bootlegger and gangster lost seven members of his gang in the St Valentine's Day Massacre? A: George 'Bugs' Moran
Q: Name the British submarine that during the Falklands War sank the General Belgrano? A: HMS Conqueror
Q: Which author's first work was 'Babbling April' and his last 'The Tenth Man'? A: Graham Greene
Q: What, according to the proverb, is the thief of time? A: Procrastination
Q: By what name was the mathematician 'Leonardo of Pisa' better known? A: Fibonacci
Q: Between 1397 and 1399, which English county became a principality under King Richard , the only English county to have been honoured in this way? A: Cheshire
Q: At which battle of 1403 did Henry 'Hotspur' Percy die? A: Shrewsbury
Q: Which London institution was founded at Jonathan's Coffee House in 1773? A: Stock Exchange
Q: What name is given to a second full moon in a month? A: Blue Moon
Q: "Which novel, published in 1847, begins with the words ""There was no possibility of taking a walk that day""?" A: Jane Eyre
Q: Who or what is known as 'Topolino' in Italy? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: As a result of Spain winning the Football World Cup in 2010 how many different teams have now won the World Cup? A: EIGHT
Q: Whose wife was Queen Adelaide after whom the Australian city is named? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: "Who was the ""quiet"" man bass player with Queen?" A: JOHN DEACON
Q: What is the National Flower of Belgium? A: POPPY
Q: Which fashion designer received a Royal Warrant in 1940 as the Queen's dressmaker? A: NORMAN HARTNELL
Q: "Who played Arthur Seaton in the 1960 film ""Saturday Night and Sunday Morning""?" A: ALBERT FINNEY
Q: What cake derives its name from the French word for lightning? A: ECLAIR
Q: What is the first name of the character Ironside played by Raymond Burr? A: ROBERT
Q: "Which British dress designer popularised the ""mini skirt"" in 1960's?" A: MARY QUANT
Q: How many different political parties are there now in Parliament as a result of the General Election of May 2010? A: TEN
Q: What is the National Flower of Turkey? A: TULIP
Q: Which chart topping band is made up of the Followill brothers Caleb, Nathan and Jared and their cousin Matthew? A: KINGS OF LEON
Q: What is the real first name of the character Jack Frost, played by David Jason A: WILLIAM
Q: In gastronomy the name of which popular dish stems from the Portuguese for wine and garlic? A: VINDALOO
Q: In which month of the year is the Super Bowl final played in the USA? A: FEBRUARY
Q: Who is the TUC General Secretary? A: BRENDAN BARBER
Q: What was the first Christian name of the composer Chopin? A: FREDERIC
Q: "Who presents the TV quiz show a ""Question of Genius""?" A: KIRSTY WARK
Q: "Who wrote the book ""The Ghost"" released as a film in 2010?" A: ROBERT HARRIS
Q: "Which Liverpool group had a top ten hit in 1964 with the song ""I Think Of You""?" A: MERSEYBEATS
Q: In which county is Burghley House venue for the Burghley Horse Trials? A: LINCOLNSHIRE
Q: Who is the husband of Harriet Harman who has just been elected as an MP (May 2010)? A: JACK DROMEY
Q: "Which Liverpool Group had a top ten hit in the 1963 with the song ""Hello Little Girl""?" A: FOURMOST
Q: "Who introduces the TV Quiz Show ""Pointless""?" A: ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG
Q: Distilled in the hills of Kentucky since 1795 which brand of Bourbon takes its name from the man who rebuilt the business following prohibition? A: JIM BEAM
Q: Who played The Prisoner in the recent TV remake? A: JIM CAVIEZEL
Q: Which breed of dog takes its name from the Russian word meaning fast or swift? A: BORZOI
Q: In the J. M. Barrie play who was the resourceful butler to the Earl of Loam? A: THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON
Q: In which year was construction of the Berlin Wall started? A: 1961
Q: In 1961 who was enthroned as the 100th Archbishop of Canterbury? A: MICHAEL RAMSEY
Q: "Who said ""Claret is the liquor for boys, port for men, but he who aspires to be a hero must drink brandy?" A: DR JOHNSON
Q: Bempton Cliffs in Yorkshire form the only British Mainland colony for which bird? A: GANNET
Q: Whose portrait was painted by the fictional artist Basil Hallward? A: DORIAN GRAY
Q: Which TV animated series features the comedic antics of Peter and Louis Griffin? A: FAMILY GUY
Q: Which county will host the 2016 European Football Championships? A: FRANCE
Q: Who lived and had a photographic studio at 59 Rodney Street, Liverpool? A: EDWARD CHAMBRE HARDMAN
Q: John Shepherd-Barron who died in May 2010 is credited with being the inventor of what, which was first used in 1967 by Reg Varney? A: ATM
Q: What was the name of the murderer that the crowds told Pilate to free rather than Jesus? A: BARABBAS
Q: In which US state is the Dollywood Theme Park? A: TENNESSEE
Q: In 1675 the Rev. John Flamsteed was the first person to hold which position? A: ASTRONOMER ROYAL
Q: "The 2009 film ""Telstar"" told the story of which record producer?" A: JOE MEEK
Q: In which US state is Fort Sumter where the first shots were fired in the American Civil War? A: SOUTH CAROLINA
Q: According to the book of Revelation on what horse does Death ride? A: A PALE HORSE
Q: Who directed the 2010 film version of Alice in Wonderland? A: TIM BURTON
Q: What position was John Dryden appointed to in 1668? A: POET LAUREATE
Q: Raita is an Indian sauce or dip, what is always used as a base? A: YOGHURT
Q: Which small rodent highly valued for its fine silky fur lives almost exclusively in the Andes? A: CHINCHILLA
Q: Chris Haney who died in June 2010 aged 59 was co-creator of which board game? A: TRIVIAL PURSUIT
Q: Which actress star of the film Georgy Girl died in May 2010? A: LYNN REDGRAVE
Q: What is Britain's oldest colony? A: BERMUDA
Q: What unit of measurement is equivalent to nine gallons? A: FIRKIN
Q: Who became the first Chancellor of the reunited Germany in 1990? A: Helmut Kohl
Q: What is the name of the mausoleum near Windsor where Queen Victoria and Prince Albert are buried? A: Frogmore
Q: Which horse won the 2010 Aintree Grand National? A: Don't Push It
Q: 'Zorro' is the Spanish word for which animal? A: Fox
Q: Which character did Julia Roberts play in the Steven Spielberg film 'Hook'? A: Tinkerbell
Q: Which US company has recently taken over Cadbury's? A: Kraft
Q: What was the name of the boat on which newspaper magnate Robert Maxwell was last seen alive? A: Lady Ghislaine
Q: Which of the British pre-decimalisation coins portrayed a portcullis on its reverse side? A: Threepenny piece
Q: On which radio programme has Evan Davis been a regular presenter since April 2008? A: Today
Q: Which entertainer was originally billed, as a child, as 'The Mighty Atom'? A: Bruce Forsyth
Q: Who launched the SkyTrain air service on 26 September 1977? A: Freddie Laker
Q: Which famous biblical character was born in Gath, according to the Book of Samuel? A: Goliath
Q: Ben Nevis is the highest mountain in the UK, but which mountain comes next in height? A: Ben MacDhui
Q: Which online bank was established by the Prudential in 1998? A: Egg
Q: Who won the 2010 World Professional Snooker Championship? A: Neil Robertson
Q: Which Benjamin Britten opera was composed to commemorate the coronation of Queen Elizabeth the Second? A: Gloriana
Q: Which type of pasta literally takes its name from the Italian for 'butterfly'? A: Farfalle
Q: What is a Suffolk Punch? A: A breed of (draught) horse
Q: What was the name of the world's first nuclear powered submarine? A: Nautilus
Q: Which square is diagonally opposite 'Go' on a standard Monopoly board? A: Free Parking
Q: Which car company produces a model called the Yeti? A: Skoda
Q: On which river does the Kariba Dam stand? A: Zambezi
Q: By what name is the medical condition Pertussis more commonly known? A: Whooping Cough
Q: Bathsheba Everdene is the female protagonist of which Thomas Hardy novel? A: Far From the Madding Crowd
Q: Which daughter of Minos of Crete gave Theseus the thread which enabled him to find his way out of the labyrinth? A: Ariadne
Q: Which flag is flown by a vessel about to leave port? A: Blue Peter
Q: Who wrote the opera 'The Girl of the Golden West'? A: Giacomo Puccini
Q: What is the most northerly motorway in Britain? A: M90
Q: Which country's national airline is called Garuda? A: Indonesia
Q: According to the nursery rhyme who 'kissed the girls and made them cry'? A: Georgie Porgie
Q: Which musical features the song 'The Rhythm of Life'? A: Sweet Charity
Q: Which championship golf course has holes named 'Flowering Crab Apple', 'Firethorn' and 'Azalea'? A: Augusta
Q: "Who wrote ""He who can does. He who cannot, teaches""?" A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: By what name is vitamin B2 also known? A: Riboflavin
Q: What is the name of the largest of Jupiter's moons? A: Ganymede
Q: Historically which royal figure was known as Farmer George? A: King George III
Q: In which James Bond film does Britt Ekland appear? A: The Man with the Golden Gun
Q: Klagenfurt International Airport is located in which country? A: Austria
Q: What is the French equivalent of the London Stock Exchange? A: The Bourse
Q: In which country did the Velvet Revolution of November 1989 take place? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Which pop group had a number one hit record in the 1990s with 'Don't Look Back in Anger'? A: Oasis
Q: In which sport did Scot Graeme Obree twice become World Champion? A: Cycling
Q: What is the mascot for the 2012 London Paralympic Games called? A: Mandeville
Q: In the Bible, on the road to where did Cleopas encounter Jesus? A: Emmaus
Q: Who is the fictional detective, known as the female James Bond, created by Peter O'Donnell? A: Modesty Blaise
Q: By what name is the steam locomotive wheel arrangement of 4-6-2 known? A: Pacific
Q: "Which comedian's catchphrases included ""Shut that door""?" A: Larry Grayson
Q: In which country did General Jaruzelski impose martial law in 1981? A: Poland
Q: What is the opposite of the word 'nadir'? A: Zenith
Q: What kind of acid is normally used in a car battery? A: Sulphuric Acid
Q: Which composer's oratorios include 'The Kingdom' and 'The Dream of Gerontius'? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Which Rugby League team is nicknamed 'The Wildcats'? A: Wakefield Trinity
Q: What is the Spanish word for the colour yellow? A: Amarillo
Q: Who chaired the 2010 Iraq Inquiry? A: Sir John Chilcot
Q: Which newspaper did Piers Morgan edit from 1995 to 2004? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Which author created the character Simon Templar? A: Leslie Charteris
Q: Who in 2007 was appointed Britain's first ever female Home Secretary? A: Jacqui Smith
Q: In which Asian country is the resort of Pattaya? A: Thailand
Q: Which TV series features the Sterling Cooper advertising agency? A: Mad Men
Q: What does the acronym SWALK on an envelope mean? A: Sealed with a loving kiss
Q: Which TV character is the British equivalent of Michael Scott played by Steve Carell on US television? A: David Brent
Q: Name the chief town on the Isle of Skye. A: Portree
Q: Hydrargyrum is another name for which chemical element? A: Mercury
Q: Which football team was founded in 2002 and, after four promotions, started the 2009-10 season in the Blue Square Conference Premier, one step from the Football League? A: (AFC) Wimbledon
Q: Guy Garvey is the lead vocalist of which award-winning Bury-based band? A: Elbow
Q: Name the unseeded tennis player who won the 2009 US Open in only her third tournament since coming out of retirement. A: Kim Clijsters
Q: In which town or city does the Rugby Union team Ospreys play its home games? A: Swansea
Q: Which politician said in 2000, 'I know the human being and fish can co-exist peacefully.'? A: George W Bush
Q: Name the Dubai tower officially opened in 2010 which is now the world's tallest building. A: Burj Khalifa
Q: What 9-letter word beginning with G means a local official in the German Nazi Party? A: Gauleiter
Q: PH Newby was the winner of the first what in 1969? A: Booker Prize
Q: Who was the Greek god of the winds? A: Aeolus
Q: Name the police officer who commanded the operation leading to the shooting of innocent Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes and who has since been promoted to Deputy Assistant Commissioner. A: Cressida Dick
Q: Who deposed Richard II in 1399, succeeding him as King of England? A: Henry IV
Q: Which religion has holy books called the Vedas? A: Hinduism
Q: Who in 2002 was the youngest man to win an Academy Award for Best Actor? A: Adrien Brody
Q: Actor Gary Webster took over as an eponymous character in which TV series of the 70s and 80s? A: Minder
Q: Which primates, whose name is derived from the Latin for 'spirits of the dead', are endemic to Madagascar and surrounding islands? A: Lemurs
Q: Who chaired the 2003-4 Inquiry into the suspicious death of MOD scientist. Dr David Kelly? A: Lord Hutton
Q: Which daily newspaper is owned by the Scott Trust? A: The Guardian
Q: Which parliamentary constituency does Jack Straw represent? A: Blackburn
Q: Name the former Thailand Prime Minister (2001-6) who briefly owned Manchester City football club from 2007-8. A: Thaksin Shinawatra
Q: Which TV series features the Chatsworth Estate? A: Shameless
Q: For what, in the world of finance, does the I stand in the acronym ISA? A: Individual
Q: Which former Royal Mail Chief Executive was appointed Chief Executive of ITV in 2010? A: Adam Crozier
Q: What does the word 'wherefore' mean, as In the phrase, 'Wherefore art thou Romeo?' A: Why
Q: Port Ellen is the chief town on which Scottish island, the most southern of the Inner Hebrides? A: Islay
Q: Natrium was the original name for which element? A: Sodium
Q: The Eredivisie is the top football league in which country? A: Netherlands
Q: Name the Swedish tennis player who in recent years has ended long unbeaten records by Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. A: Robin Soderling
Q: The Petronas Towers, the world's tallest twin towers, are in which Asian city? A: Kuala Lumpur
Q: What did chef Gino D'Acampo win in 2009? A: I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!
Q: What 7-letter word beginning with J is a nickname for a US marine? A: Jarhead
Q: Which god is the twin brother of the goddess Artemis? A: Apollo
Q: Name the former Metropolitan Police Commander convicted in 2010 of perverting the course of justice and sentenced to 4 years imprisonment. A: Ali Dizaei
Q: What is the nationality of Manny Pacquiao, considered by many the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world. A: Filipino
Q: Titus Oates was a ringleader of the Popish plot to kill which English King in 1678? A: Charles II
Q: The Torah and Talmud are holy books in which religion? A: Judaism
Q: The film 'The Shawshank Redemption' was based on a novella by which highly successful writer? A: Stephen King
Q: Which horse won his 4th consecutive King George VI Chase at Kempton in 2009, beating Desert Orchid's record of 4 wins in 5 years? A: Kauto Star
Q: By what name is the building 30 St Mary Axe in the City of London colloquially known? A: The Gherkin
Q: A league was an old unit of measurement equal to how many miles? A: Three
Q: Film director Sam Mendes was married to which actress? A: Kate Winslet
Q: Which former FA Chief Executive once played as a midfielder for Tranmere Rovers? A: Mark Palios
Q: Trade union leader Jack Dromey is married to which politician? A: Harriet Harman
Q: The Ballad of Bonnie and Clyde was a no.1 hit in 1967 for which singer? A: Georgie Fame
Q: For what does the 'J' stand in the computer file format jpeg? A: Joint
Q: Which awards are made each year at about the same time as the Oscars, but are for the year's worst films? A: The Golden Raspberries
Q: What name is given to the tall slim, stemmed glasses in which sparkling wine should be served? A: Flutes
Q: Which element has the atomic number 55 and the chemical symbol Cs? A: Caesium
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in 1883 and was first elected to parliament in 1922 as MP for Limehouse? A: (Clement) Attlee
Q: In which English county are the towns of Wiveliscombe and Watchet? A: Somerset
Q: Give a year in the life of composer Antonio Vivaldi? A: 1678-1741
Q: For what does the 'P' stand in the computer file format pdf? A: Portable
Q: In which European country is Cascais Beach? A: Portugal
Q: The Mitchell Library is in which UK city? A: Glasgow
Q: In which country, which has a coastline on the eastern Mediterranean, is the red wine Chateau Musar produced? A: Lebanon
Q: Who drew the cartoon strip The Fosdyke Saga? A: Bill Tidy
Q: Which city will host the 2016 Olympic Games? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: Who wrote the poem How They Brought The Good News From Ghent To Aix? A: Robert Browning
Q: In which of the constellations of the Zodiac is the bright star Antares found? A: Scorpio
Q: At the 2010 football World Cup which was the only team not to lose a game? A: New Zealand
Q: Which element has the atomic number 42 and the chemical symbol Mo? A: Molybdenum
Q: Which lighthouse, west of the Scilly Isles, marks the Eastern end of the North Atlantic shipping route at which the time for the Blue Riband is measured? A: Bishop Rock
Q: Which awards are made each year in memory of those who have killed themselves in bizarre ways? A: The Darwin Awards
Q: Give a year in the life of composer Leos Janacek? A: 1854-1928
Q: The malleus, incus, and stapes (the hammer, the anvil, and the stirrup) are the three smallest bones in the human body, how are they collectively known? A: The Ossicles
Q: Which fictional detective, created by Caroline Graham in novels such as Faithful Unto Death and The Killings at Badger Drift, features in a popular TV series? A: (Chief Inspector Tom) Barnaby
Q: At the 2010 football World Cup who won the Golden Ball for best player? A: Diego Forlan
Q: In Greek mythology, Elektra was the daughter of which king? A: Agamemnon
Q: The inscription 'Bleste be the man that spares these stones, and curst be he that moves my bones' appears on whose gravestone? A: William Shakespeare
Q: Which south coast town is served by the local radio station Arrow FM? A: Hastings
Q: In which country is 'Ninety Mile Beach'? A: Australia
Q: In June 2010, Daniel Westling married Crown Princess Victoria of which country? A: Sweden
Q: During 2009, in order to highlight 'global warming', which country held an underwater cabinet meeting? A: Maldives
Q: Similarly during 2009, in order to highlight 'global warming', which country held a cabinet meeting up a mountain? A: Nepal
Q: The Monarch's Way is a long distance footpath, approximating to a route taken by which monarch? A: Charles II
Q: In World War 2, Captain Hans Lansdorf was in command of which famous ship? A: (Admiral) Graf Spee
Q: Which type of soft undressed silk takes its name from the province of north-east China where it was originally made? A: Shantung
Q: How is 'King Rudolf 5th of Ruritania' known in the title of a book? A: The Prisoner of Zenda
Q: The Chester Beatty Library is in which city? A: Dublin
Q: Which lighthouse stands 12 miles east of the Tay estuary? A: Bell Rock
Q: In which English county are the towns of Daventry and Brixworth? A: Northamptonshire
Q: Which city will host the 2014 Winter Olympic Games? A: Sochi
Q: What name, that of a German soldier born at Rostock in 1742, has been given since the early 19th century to a style of strong leather half-boot? A: Blucher
Q: In July 2010, USA and Russia swapped prisoners charged with spying - at which city's airport did the exchange take place? A: Vienna
Q: In which of the constellations of the Zodiac is the star Aldebaran found? A: Taurus
Q: From which author's story was the opera 'The Barber of Seville' taken? A: Beaumarchais
Q: In World War 2, Admiral Gunther Lutjens was in command of which famous ship? A: Bismarck
Q: Which south coast town is served by the local radio station Splash FM? A: Worthing
Q: "In which Shakespeare play does the character Antigonus ""exit, pursued by a bear""?" A: A Winter's Tale
Q: Bowman's Capsule is found in which organ of the body? A: Kidney
Q: For which daily newspaper does Frederick Forsyth write? A: Daily Express
Q: Omega is the last letter of the Greek alphabet, which is the penultimate letter? A: Psi
Q: An obituary in the sporting times in 1882 lead to the creation of which trophy? A: The Ashes
Q: How many countries were founder members of the EEC in 1957? A: Six
Q: In 1931 which Hungarian actor played Count Dracula in films? A: Bela Lugosi
Q: What type of creature is a Brazilian Huntsman? A: A Spider
Q: The Coromandel coast is washed by which part of the Indian Ocean? A: Bay of Bengal
Q: What does Al Jazeera (the TV Station) mean in English? A: The Peninsula
Q: What is the state capital of Nebraska? A: Lincoln
Q: Dave Lamb is a commentator on which food orientated TV programme? A: Come Dine With Me
Q: In which year did the liner Queen Mary gain the blue riband on her maiden voyage? A: 1936
Q: In which year was the first English FA cup final held? A: 1872
Q: Who was the first person to appear on a British postage stamp other than royalty? A: William Shakespeare
Q: What part of the body is affected by glossitis? A: The Tongue
Q: Who discovered that malaria was transmitted by mosquito? A: Sir Ronald Ross
Q: Who composed the music for the hymn Onward Christian Soldiers? A: Arthur Sullivan
Q: In the USA how many senators represent each state? A: Two
Q: In which novel does the ship the Pequod appear? A: Moby Dick
Q: Justin Lee Collins hosts which TV show? A: Heads or Tails
Q: Which king was ousted by Colonel Gadaffi? A: Idris
Q: What type of creature is an Antiguan Racer? A: Snake
Q: What does Taliban mean in the Afghan language? A: Students
Q: Which river flows through Maidstone? A: Medway
Q: Which river flows through Shrewsbury? A: Severn
Q: Who created the character Paddington Bear? A: Michael Bond
Q: Who first stated that patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: In 2009 who was elected speaker of the House of Commons? A: John Bercow
Q: Sturnus Vulgaris is the scientific name for which common bird? A: Starling
Q: Who played Hawkeye Pierce in the film version of MASH? A: Donald Sutherland
Q: In which city were the first operas performed? A: Venice
Q: In which French city is William the Conqueror buried? A: Caen
Q: In the human body what is produced by the lachrymal glands? A: Tears
Q: How many days are there in the religious period of Lent? A: 40
Q: What do we call the point in the orbit of a planet at which the planet is nearest to the Sun? A: Perihelion
Q: Born in 1585, who was known as the red eminence? A: Cardinal Richelieu
Q: Who was the Spanish adventurer who conquered Peru in the 16th century? A: (Francisco) Pizarro
Q: What is Europe's oldest parliament dating from 930 AD? A: Althing
Q: Which saint set up a community on the island of Iona? A: St Columba
Q: What was the name of the first Plantagenet monarch of England? A: Henry II
Q: Which English King immediately preceded the Tudors and was effectively the last Plantagenet monarch? A: Richard III
Q: In which country does the Zambezi river empty into the Indian ocean? A: Mozambique
Q: In which country is the confluence of the White Nile and the Blue Nile? A: Sudan
Q: In which decade did Edvard Munch paint The Scream? A: 1890s
Q: Name the only novel by Emily Bronte? A: Wuthering Heights
Q: What is NH3 the chemical formula for? A: Ammonia
Q: Give another name for Kaolin. A: China Clay
Q: In which year was the dwarf planet Pluto discovered? A: 1930
Q: At which university was Samuel Beckett from 1923 to 1927? A: Trinity College Dublin
Q: Who plays Wycliffe on television? A: Jack Shepherd
Q: In the RAF, what is the rank immediately above Squadron Leader? A: Wing Commander
Q: Whose 1941 7th Symphony was called 'Leningrad'? A: (Dmitri) Shostakovich
Q: Who was the first king of the House of Lancaster? A: Henry IV
Q: Catherine Hogarth was the wife of which famous author? A: Charles Dickens
Q: In which sport are penalties awarded to the opposing team for clipping, holding and hooking? A: Ice Hockey
Q: What is the narne of the late playwright husband of the actress Maureen Lipman? A: Jack Rosenthal
Q: Before he became an author, what was the original profession of Sir Walter Scott? A: Lawyer
Q: Which driver won the first Grand Prix Formula One World Motor championship in 1950? A: Guiseppe Farina
Q: Which racing driver won the Formula One Championship in 1981, 1983 and 1987? A: Nelson Piquet
Q: Who was the first woman to run for US Vice President in 1984? A: Geraldine Ferraro
Q: Who was Indira Gandhi's father? A: (Pandit Jawaharlal) Nehru
Q: What is the popular name of Beethoven's Piano Sonata No. 23? A: Appassionata
Q: In which year was the Battle of Edgehill, the first battle of the English Civil War? A: 1642
Q: Where would you find a pauldron and a vambrace? A: Suit of Armour
Q: Which vegetable has the Latin name solanum tuberosum? A: Potato
Q: Stewart Island is the third largest island of which Commonwealth country? A: New Zealand
Q: Which building complex in Liverpool was designed by Jesse Hartley in 1846? A: Albert Dock
Q: What is the name of the rod on a sundial which indicates the time? A: Gnomon
Q: Who composed the opera 'Emilia di Liverpool' in 1824? A: Gaetano Donizetti
Q: What is the state capital of Alaska? A: Juneau
Q: Which son of Sweyn Forkbeard became King of England in 1016? A: Canute
Q: Which aircraft company manufactured the Spitfire? A: Supermarine
Q: Who designed the crypt and original design of the Liverpool Metropolitan Cathedral in 1933? A: Edwin Lutyens
Q: Who composed the oratorio 'Carmina Burana' in 1935? A: Carl Orff
Q: Which pop group was co-founded by Syd Barrett in 1965/66? A: Pink Floyd
Q: What is the part of the stage which projects into the auditorium called? It is located between the curtain and the orchestra. A: Apron
Q: Whose first novel 'The Hunt for Red October' was published in 1984? A: Tom Clancy
Q: At which resort did Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin meet in a major conference in February 1945? A: Yalta
Q: What is the oldest structure within the Tower of London, built by William the Conqueror in 1086? A: White Tower
Q: What is the name of the area in Central Park dedicated to the memory of John Lennon? A: Strawberry Fields
Q: In which band did Ringo Starr play immediately before he joined the Beatles? A: Rory Storm and the Hurricanes
Q: Who wrote the plays The Browning Version and Separate Tables? A: Terence Rattigan
Q: Which was Shakespeare's shortest play? A: The Comedy of Errors
Q: In which modern day country would you have found the majority of the Hittite Empire? A: Turkey
Q: Which country is the largest producer of tungsten (75% of world's output)? A: China
Q: Who played guitar and was a founder of the 'Hot Club of France' (Quintette du Hot Club de France)? A: Django Reinhardt
Q: Who in 1968 was the first cricketer to be officially recorded as scoring a six off every ball in a six ball over in first class cricket? A: Gary Sobers
Q: In the shape of which animal does the Hindu God Hanuman appear? A: A Monkey
Q: In Italian cuisine what name is given to a turnover of pizza dough filled with vegetables meat or cheese? A: Calzone
Q: What type of foodstuff is Port Salut? A: Cheese
Q: Which desert separates Egypt and Israel? A: Negev
Q: Which classic 1952 film was based on a short story called The Tin Star? A: High Noon
Q: Whose autobiography was Goodbye To All That? A: Robert Graves
Q: How many chromosomes are in a human body cell? A: 46
Q: Who was Lieutenant Gerard Chasing for four years in the TV series The Fugitive? A: RICHARD KIMBLE
Q: Which golfing accessory was patented by George Grant in 1899? A: THE TEE
Q: Which Charlie Chaplin film satirized Adolf Hitler? A: THE GREAT DICTATOR
Q: Under which zodiac sign was Jesus born? A: CAPRICORN
Q: What is the name of the hero in the play Death of a Salesman? A: WILLIE LOMAN
Q: What was the character name of the Girl from Uncle? A: APRIL DANCER
Q: Who was the first female to be the speaker of the House of Commons? A: BETTY BOOTHROYD
Q: Which aircraft company built a model called the Comet? A: DE HAVILLAND
Q: From what material are millefiori ornaments made? A: GLASS
Q: In which harbour did the Mary Rose sink in 1545? A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: Border, Corriedale and Leicester are all breeds of which animal? A: SHEEP
Q: Who crossed the Atlantic Ocean in a papyrus boat in 1969-70? A: THOR HEYERDAHL
Q: What is the name of the RAF Officer Training School? A: CRANWELL
Q: What was the capital of Brazil before Brasilia? A: RIO DE JANEIRO
Q: Which Egyptian God had the head of a falcon? A: HORUS
Q: "Whose last words were reputed to have been ""I will hear in heaven""?" A: LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN
Q: On which body of water does Kampala stand? A: LAKE VICTORIA
Q: What is the modern name of Dutch Guiana? A: SURINAM
Q: What is the former name of Cape of Good Hope? A: THE CAPE OF STORMS
Q: On which Island is the Japanese Capital Tokyo to be found? A: HONSHU
Q: In which year was the Easter Uprising in Ireland? A: 1916
Q: "When jeered during his maiden speech, which future Prime Minister said ""Though I sit down now, the time will come when you will hear me""?" A: BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Q: Which London landmark now stands on the site of the Tyburn Tree/Gallows? A: MARBLE ARCH
Q: Which waterproof material was produced by Joseph Kagan in the 1950's? A: GANNEX
Q: In which British City was a mosque first opened in 1860? A: CARDIFF
Q: Which was the first London Street to be lit by gas lamp? A: PALL MALL
Q: What is the chemical name for vitamin B2? A: RIBOFLAVIN
Q: In which US city was the first telephone exchange set up? A: BOSTON
Q: What was the nationality of racing driver Jochin Rindt? A: AUSTRIAN
Q: The Paris-Dakar rally stars in France but end in which country? A: SENEGAL
Q: Which is the nearest British town to Beachy Head? A: EASTBOURNE
Q: Which river runs through the Vale of Evesham? A: RIVER AVON
Q: Which British Foreign Minister, later Prime Minister, is associated with Gunboat Diplomacy? A: LORD PALMERSTON
Q: Who said guns will make us powerful but butter will make us fat? A: HERMAN GOERING
Q: Which film classic was based around the Boxer Rebellion? A: 55 DAYS AT PEKING
Q: When Adolf Eichmann was kidnapped by Israeli Agents, in which country was he found? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which was the capital city of the Assyrian Empire? A: NINEVEH
Q: What structures were built along the south coast of England during the Napoleonic wars to protect England from invasion by the French? A: MARTELLO TOWERS
Q: Which disease caused the death of 43 people in Croydon in 1937? A: TYPHOID
Q: What was the name of the faith healer employed by Glenn Hoddle for the 1998 England World Cup squad? A: EILEEN DREWERY
Q: Simon Woodruffe started which food chain in 1998? A: YO SUSHI
Q: Phil Silvers wrote Nancy with the Laughing Eyes about which entertainer's daughter? A: FRANK SINATRA
Q: Which metal is obtained from minerals haematite and magnetite? A: IRON
Q: Who had a mistress called Clara Petacci? A: BENITO MUSSOLINI
Q: What name. is given to a golden coloured horse with a golden mane? A: PALOMINO
Q: What colour is copper sulphate? A: BLUE
Q: Which is the lightest (least dense) metal? A: LITHIUM
Q: The former Labour Minister Gerald Kaufman has his constituency in which city? A: MANCHESTER
Q: Sir Humphry Repton achieved fame in the 18th century in which sphere of activity? A: LANDSCAPE GARDENING
Q: Name the Italian composer of 'The Pines of Rome'. A: OTTORINO RESPIGHI
Q: In which English county are the Howardian Hills? A: NORTH YORKSHIRE
Q: A National Hunt flat race is generally known as what? A: A BUMPER
Q: What is the Latin name for the star constellation known in English as 'The Flying Horse'? A: PEGASUS
Q: What is the English name for the star constellation Aquila? A: THE EAGLE
Q: Bigos, a form of sauerkraut, is a national dish from which country? A: POLAND
Q: In the 20th century Henri Cartier-Bresson achieved fame in what area of activity? A: PHOTOGRAPHY
Q: The 12000 foot high volcano Semeru is the highest peak on which South-East Asian island? A: JAVA
Q: Who is the British director of the 1994 film 'Shallow Grave'? A: DANNY BOYLE
Q: Which metal has a low-grade version called spelter, often used for sculptural casting? A: ZINC
Q: What is the name of Steven Spielberg's 1997 film telling the story of a slave ship mutiny? A: AMISTAD
Q: Give one year during the life of George 'Beau' Brummell. A: 1778 - 1840
Q: On old time sailing ships what was the role of a loblolly boy? A: SURGEON'S ASSISTANT
Q: Which fruit provides the basis for quetsch brandy? A: PLUMS
Q: Which is the longest river in New Zealand? A: WAIKATO
Q: The former Labour minister Charles Clarke had his constituency in which English city? A: NORWICH
Q: Which island, home to a monastery, lies off the coast of South Wales opposite Tenby? A: CALDEY
Q: William Lamb was the family name of which 19th century titled British Prime Minister? A: LORD MELBOURNE
Q: Give one year during the lifetime of actor David Garrick. A: 1717 -1779
Q: In which present day country did the Etruscan civilisation exist? A: ITALY
Q: Cullet is a waste version with impurities of which material? A: GLASS
Q: Chianti must contain at least 75% of which Italian grape variety? A: SANGIOVESE
Q: Isabella of Angouleme was the wife of which English King? A: JOHN
Q: The Wanderers Stadium is a cricket venue in which South African city? A: JOHANNESBURG
Q: The tallest cathedral in France is to be found in which Northern city? A: AMIENS
Q: Hilary Mantel won the 2009 Man Booker Prize with which novel? A: WOLF HALL
Q: Which bird do the French know as `hibou'? A: THE OWL
Q: Which actor played Inspector George Gently in the TV series of that name? A: MARTIN SHAW
Q: Which English King was imprisoned and died in Pontefract Castle? A: RICHARD II
Q: Stefani Germanotta is better known in the pop music world as whom? A: LADY GAGA
Q: 'The Potato Eaters' was a work of which famous artist? A: VINCENT VAN GOGH
Q: The University of Pennsylvania is in which U S city? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: 'Charlotte Rhodes' was the name of the ship which featured regularly in which TV series? A: THE ONEDIN LINE
Q: Which group had a number one hit in 1983 with 'True'? A: SPANDAU BALLET
Q: The grape variety `syrah' takes its name from which town in Iran? A: SHIRAZ
Q: What is the capital of Surinam? A: PARAMARIBO
Q: Which singer had a number one hit in 2003 with 'Slow'? A: KYLIE MINOGUE
Q: In which present day country was the bulk of the Hittite Empire situated? A: TURKEY
Q: Which horse was the winner of the 2010 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: IMPERIAL COMMANDER
Q: What is the spirit ingredient in a Tom Collins cocktail? A: GIN
Q: What is the surname of Florence of the pop group Florence and the Machine? A: WELCH
Q: The ship Earl of Pembroke renamed in 1768 for its new role became famous by what name? A: ENDEAVOUR
Q: Which is the oldest of London's present Football League and Premiership clubs? A: FULHAM
Q: Horatio Nelson lost his arm in an abortive attack on which island? A: TENERIFE
Q: Who was the trainer of the 2010 Grand National winning horse Don't Push It? A: JONJO O'NEILL
Q: In a Stinger cocktail what spirit is added to crème de menthe? A: BRANDY
Q: Which is the largest of London's theatres, i.e. has the most seats? A: COLISEUM
Q: The TV series 'Lark Rise to Candleford' is based on whose stories? A: FLORA THOMPSON
Q: Which artist produced many paintings of Jane Avril at The Moulin Rouge? A: HENRI TOULOUSE-LAUTREC
Q: In which town in Southern England is the grave of Pocahontas? A: GRAVESEND
Q: In which English county is Frankland Prison? A: DURHAM_
Q: Who won the 1940 Presidential election in the Philip Roth novel 'The Plot Against America'? A: CHARLES LINDBERGH
Q: Which is the only country outside the USA where alligators are found in the wild? A: CHINA
Q: Held during the Boer War, what nickname was given to the UK General Election of 1900? A: THE KHAKI ELECTION
Q: 'Sup up your beer and collect your fags' is the opening line to which 1979 Top 5 hit single? A: ETON RIFLES
Q: The flower Campanula rotundifolia is commonly known as the bluebell in Scotland; how is it known in England? A: HAREBELL
Q: Which astronaut, on whose book the movie was based, was played by Tom Hanks in the 1995 film `Apollo 13'? A: JIM LOVELL
Q: The flower Dianthus barbatus is commonly known as Stinking Billy in Scotland; by what more pleasant-sounding name is it known in England? A: SWEET WILLIAM
Q: Although approaching his 30th birthday, in which 1953 film did Marlon Brando play the part of the teenage leader of a motorcycle gang? A: THE WILD ONE
Q: Which board game was invented by part-time clown, Anthony E Pratt? A: CLUEDO
Q: In which Welsh castle was the future King Henry VII born? A: PEMBROKE
Q: At which point on the Cumbrian coast does Wainwright's Coast to Coast Walk start? A: ST BEES
Q: In which country was the board game Trivial Pursuit devised? A: CANADA
Q: Who will appear on the new £50 bank note along with his business partner James Watt? A: MATTHEW BOULTON
Q: At which place in the Peak District does the Pennine Way start? A: EDALE
Q: In which of her palaces did Queen Elizabeth the First die? A: RICHMOND
Q: Where do celebrity panellists sit in the Channel 4 TV game show 'Countdown'? A: DICTIONARY CORNER
Q: Natasha Khan is better known by which stage name? A: BAT FOR LASHES
Q: "To what was the 17th Century Lord Mayor of London Sir Thomas Bloodworth referring when he disparagingly declared ""A woman might piss it out"", before going back to bed?" A: THE GREAT FIRE OF LONDON
Q: If you sailed West from Land's End and followed the same line of latitude, which country would be your first port of call? A: CANADA
Q: Who, with the real name Corynne Elliot, won the 2009 Mercury Music Prize? A: SPEECH DEBELLE
Q: Which driver won the 2010 British Formula One Grand Prix? A: MARK WEBBER
Q: Fort Zinderneuf is the place where the hero dies in which famous book and film? A: BEAU GESTE
Q: It was founded in 1379 as St Mary's College of Winchester in Oxford, but as there was already a St Mary's College at Oxford as what has it been known ever since? A: NEW COLLEGE
Q: Passat - the Volkswagen car model, is German for a type of what? A: WIND
Q: The Childe of Hale visited which Oxford College, named after a door knocker, where an imprint of his hand could be seen in the plaster until the 1880s? A: BRASENOSE
Q: Which theme park in North Yorkshire has the longest roller coaster in the UK, 'The Ultimate'? A: LIGHTWATER VALLEY
Q: Which was the last film to win all 5 major Oscars (Best Director, picture, screenplay, actor and actress)? A: THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS
Q: Which term for Swiss bankers was used by Labour politicians in the 1950s and 1960s? A: GNOMES OF ZURICH
Q: Which comedian and panel game member wrote the 2007 book 'Silent Comedy' about Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd and others? A: PAUL MERTON
Q: On which date in 1952 did the Queen ascend to the throne? A: 6TH FEBRUARY
Q: By what name is the white Florentine Iris known when used in perfumery? A: ORRIS
Q: On which date is the Queen's actual birthday? A: 21ST APRIL
Q: More famous in another field, who wrote the 2007 book, 'More than a Game', on the early history of cricket? A: JOHN MAJOR
Q: Which acid found in wood sorrel and rhubarb leaves is traditionally used in dyeing and bleaching? A: OXALIC
Q: What is the condition of the eye which makes round objects appear oval? A: ASTIGMATISM
Q: Which sub-region of Aquitaine in South West France is known for its brandy? A: ARMAGNAC
Q: Which US comedian and actor shares his name with a traditional English ballad and an area of the Eldon Square Shopping Centre in Newcastle upon Tyne? A: CHEVY CHASE
Q: Who composed an opera about the Shakespeare character Sir John Falstaff? A: VERDI
Q: Who wrote the play `Hobson's Choice' in 1916? A: HAROLD BRIGHOUSE
Q: Hashim Amla has played test cricket for which country? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: In January 2010 Cadburys advised shareholders to accept a bid from which food company? A: KRAFT
Q: Who was the leader of the British Liberal Party before Jeremy Thorpe? A: JO GRIMMOND
Q: "Who wrote the musicals ""Annie get your Gun"" and ""Call Me Madam""?" A: IRVING BERLIN
Q: For which minor sport do the USA and Europe compete annually for the Mosconi Cup? A: POOL
Q: "Who was the author of the 2009 bestseller ""Look Back in Hunger - the Autobiography""?" A: JO BRAND
Q: "In the sitcom ""Some Mothers Do Have Them"" what was the name of Frank & Betty Spencer's baby?" A: JESSICA
Q: In which English county would you find the site of the Battle of Bosworth Field? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: Wednesday is named after the god Woden but with which Roman god is Woden associated? A: MERCURY
Q: Before embarking on his Presidential campaign for which state did Barack Obama represent in the US Senate? A: ILLINOIS
Q: "Which English Monarch was the ""Count de Blois""?" A: STEPHEN
Q: "In modern technology SatNays use the GPS system. For what does the ""P"" stand in GPS" A: POSITIONING
Q: By what name has the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal been known since 1948? A: KIEL CANAL
Q: Brer Rabbit stories originated as Cherokee myths but which author compiled the Brer Rabbit stories? A: JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS
Q: "The pop rock quartet ""The Monkees"" formed in 1966 featured Mickey Dolenz, Davy Jones, Michael Nesmith and which other member?" A: PETER TORK
Q: In Greek Mythology who was the Goddess of the Underworld? A: PERSEPHONE
Q: In Indian cuisine what is aloo as in dishes saag aloo? A: POTATO
Q: Which car company has 2 Chevrons as its symbol or badge? A: CITROEN
Q: "Who in 1984 had a hit record with 'Time After Time""?" A: CYNDI LAUPER
Q: Musophobia is the fear of which animals? A: MICE
Q: Which actress was born with the real name Margaret Mary Emily Anne Hyra? A: MEG RYAN
Q: "With regards to the Isle of Man who currently holds the title ""Lord of Mann""?" A: QUEEN ELIZABETH II
Q: Which English town/city is the centre of the Post Code area NN? A: NORTHAMPTON
Q: Who succeeded John Major as leader of the Conservative Party? A: WILLIAM HAGUE
Q: "Which celebrity's autobiography ""Learning to Fly"" was released in September 2001?" A: VICTORIA BECKHAM
Q: In the soap opera Coronation Street what is the name of the fictitious supermarket? A: FRESHCO
Q: In music what note is equal to a quarter of a minim? A: QUAVER
Q: In which English county would you find the site of the Battle of Naseby? A: NORTHAMPTONSHIRE
Q: Friday is named after the goddess frig but in some parts of Europe with which Roman goddess is this day associated? A: VENUS
Q: Before Hilary Clinton became Secretary of State under Barack Obama for which state was she a US Senator? A: NEW YORK STATE
Q: In 1825 Simon Bolivar was president of 3 South American countries. Columbia and Bolivia were two of the countries. What was the third? A: PERU
Q: Which artist/painter's adopted name literally mean 'Little Barrel'? A: BOTTICELLI
Q: "What breed of animal is a ""Bluefaced Leicester""?" A: A SHEEP
Q: Which manmade waterway features the Gatun and Milafiores Locks? A: PANAMA CANAL
Q: Which children's comic strip character was created in 1928 by Mary Tourtel? A: RUPERT BEAR
Q: Levi Stubbs, Abdul Fakir, Renaldo Benson and Lawrence Peyton were collectively known as which Motown group of the 60's? A: THE FOUR TOPS
Q: Victoria is the Roman Goddess of Victory but who is her Greek equivalent? A: NIKE
Q: Which metal is obtained from the mineral ore galena? A: LEAD
Q: Both St. David's and St. Patrick's Days fall under which sign of the astrological zodiac? A: PISCES
Q: "Who in 1984 had a hit record with ""Hold Me Now""?" A: THOMPSON TWINS
Q: "What type of creatures would you find in the reptilian order ""Ophidia""?" A: SNAKES
Q: Which actress was born with the real name Hyena Vasilievna Mironov? A: HELEN MIRREN
Q: What kind of creature is a 'mugger'? A: CROCODILE
Q: Which long distance footpath runs from Chepstow to Prestatyn? A: OFFA'S DYKE PATH
Q: Which famous sporting venue is situated over Pennsylvania Railway Station in New York's 7th Avenue? A: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN
Q: In WW2, what name was given to the attempted Allied liberation of the Netherlands in September 1944? A: Operation Market Garden
Q: Bernis Leadon and Randy Meisner were among the founder members of which American group? A: The Eagles
Q: What was the Christian name of Winston Churchill's wife? A: Clementine
Q: What is the state capital of Oregon? A: Salem
Q: Who won the 2009 Open Golf Championship at Turnberry? A: Stewart Cink
Q: Which Scottish Loch is the deepest freshwater lake in the British Isles? A: Loch Morar
Q: In which Alfred Hitchcock film of 1956 did Doris Day sing 'Que Sera, Sera'? A: The Man Who Knew too Much
Q: Which is the main port on the River Amazon estuary? A: Belem
Q: What is the most southerly city in the world? A: Ushuaia
Q: Which was Alfred Hitchcock's last film made in 1976? A: Family Plot
Q: Which Scottish loch is the largest in area? A: Loch Lomond
Q: Which British Player won the 2009 British Women's Open Golf Championship held at Royal Lytham and St. Annes? A: Catriona Matthew
Q: What is the state capital of North Dakota? A: Bismarck
Q: What was the Christian name of Harold McMillan's wife? A: Dorothy
Q: John Illsley and Pick Withers were among the founder members of which predominantly British group? A: Dire Straits
Q: In WW2 the name Operation Plunder Varsity was given to the Allied crossing of what in March 1945? A: River Rhine
Q: What is the top knot of stiff, spiky leaves on a pineapple called? A: The crown
Q: Who was the first woman to run for the vice-presidency of the United States? A: Geraldine Ferraro
Q: Who plays Sergeant Hathaway in the television series Lewis? A: Lawrence Fox
Q: Which writer created the characters Little Isodore, Harry the Horse and Spanish John? A: Damon Runyon
Q: In which Shakespeare play do the characters Ajax, Achilles and Ulysses appear? A: Troilus and Cressida
Q: In Norse mythology, who was the consort of Odin? A: Freya
Q: The Louis S. St. Laurent' and the 'John G. Diefenbaker' are specifically what kind of ships? A: Icebreakers
Q: William Hague, Tony Benn, Hilaire Belloc and Giles Brandreth are but four past holders of which prestigious but non-political office? A: President of the Oxford Union
Q: Who was the Greek god of prophecy? A: Apollo
Q: What is ombrophobia a fear of? A: Rain
Q: What is the longest snake in the world? A: The Reticulated Python.
Q: Give any year in the life of the painter Sandro Boticelli. A: 1445-1510
Q: Who was the Greek god of trade? A: Hermes
Q: In Ibsen's play Hedda Gabler, how does Hedda die? A: She shoots herself
Q: What was the home of the gods in Norse mythology? A: Asgard.
Q: What is the capital of Mali? A: Bamako .
Q: Able seaman Kate Nesbitt, a medical assistant, became the first woman in the RN to receive which award in Nov. 2009? A: The Military Cross
Q: The 6,700 ton St. Helena is one of only two vessels to still carry which designation? A: Royal Mail Ship
Q: In which British city is there a district called The Jericho? A: Oxford.
Q: The national Needle Museum is to be found in which Worcestershire town? A: Redditch
Q: All happy families resemble one another, but each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. The opening lines of which great novel? A: Anna Karenina
Q: Which company made the 1950's car the Mayflower? A: Triumph
Q: Which European capital is served by Vantaa airport? A: Helsinki
Q: Who is the most infamous old boy of St. Peter's School in York? A: Guy Fawkes.
Q: 'Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents grumbled Jo,lying on lying on the rug.' Is the opening line of which famous novel? A: Little Women
Q: Which company made a 1950's/60's car called the Magnette? A: MG
Q: Which composer's A minor piano concerto was premiered in 1846 with his wife as soloist? A: Schumann
Q: Stockport in Greater Manchester has a museum dedicated to what item of clothing? A: Hats
Q: In which British city is there a suburb called New Zealand? A: Derby
Q: What was the name of John Cabot's ship in which he set off in 1497 to reach Asia, finishing up in Newfoundland? A: Matthew
Q: Whose words are these 'Berlin is the testicle of the West. When I want the West to scream, I squeeze Berlin? A: Nikita Khrushchev
Q: Who wrote The Russia House' in 1989? A: John le Carre
Q: The establishment of which law officers dates from 1194? A: Coroners
Q: In which US state is Biscayne Bay? A: Florida
Q: Which form of sentence was introduced to the UK by the 1972 Criminal Justice Act? A: Community Service
Q: Who won the Oscar for Best Director at the 2010 awards? A: Kathryn Bigelow
Q: In which city did Superman work, disguised as Clark Kent? A: Metropolis
Q: Who occasionally hosts BBC TV's Eggheads in the absence of Dermot Murnaghan? A: Jeremy Vine
Q: What name is given to the French version of the Tote betting system? A: Pari-Mutuel
Q: Danced in a style representing a bullfight, which dance takes its name from the Spanish for 'double step'? A: Paso Doble
Q: In which year did the following events all take place; Church of England ordained its first female priests, the Channel Tunnel opened and the National Lottery started? A: 1994
Q: "In the game of bingo, what number can be called as ""was she worth it""?" A: 76
Q: In which US state is the Big Sur coast? A: California
Q: In which city did Batman live as Bruce Wayne? A: Gotham City
Q: What is the name of the 'social networking' website, on which messages are restricted to 140 characters, founded by Jack Dorsey, Biz Stone and Evan Williams in 2006? A: Twitter
Q: The film 'Carrie' was based on a book by which author? A: Stephen King
Q: In February 2010, who reported on an audit of MPs' expense claims? A: Sir Thomas Legg
Q: Which novelty swing dance, derived from the Charleston, was named following Charles Lindberg's crossing of the Atlantic in 1927? A: Lindy Hop
Q: Brandon Flowers is the singer with which group? A: The Killers
Q: Who painted 'The Garden of Earthly Delights' in 1504? A: Hieronymus Bosch
Q: Who won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role in `Precious'? A: Mo'Nique
Q: Chicago has baseball teams called 'Cubs' and 'White Sox', what is the name of Milwaukee's baseball team? A: Brewers
Q: Who hosts the BBC TV quiz show 'Pointless'? A: Alexander Armstrong
Q: Who was the famous Scottish rugby union commentator who died in January 2010? A: Bill McLaren
Q: Eugene Onegin and The Queen of Spades were operas by which composer? A: Tchaikovsky
Q: "In the game of bingo, what number can be called as ""Doctor's orders""?" A: 9
Q: What are High Spy, Barf, Knott Rigg and Lord's Seat? A: Lake District Fells
Q: Who was the winner of the 2009 X-Factor TV programme? A: Joe McElderry
Q: In 2010, Carlos Slim became the first non-American since 1994 to top Forbes list of billionaires, what is his nationality? A: Mexican
Q: Which English football league club are nicknamed 'the Brewers'? A: Burton Albion
Q: In which year did the following events all take place; Ken Livingstone became the Mayor of London, England lost 1-0 to Germany in the last match at the old Wembley Stadium and Judith Keppel won the first £1,000,000 on 'Who Wants to be a Millionaire'? A: 2000
Q: Which is Britain's oldest colony, settled in 1609? A: Bermuda
Q: Which car manufacturer uses the advertising slogan 'The power of dreams'? A: Honda
Q: What is the name of the music website founded by Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon and launched in 2008? A: Spotify
Q: In the Stephen King book 'Christine', who or what is Christine? A: A car
Q: "Complete the quotation from Oscar Wilde (in Lady Windermere's Fan) ""We are all in the gutter but...""?" A: Some of us are looking at the stars
Q: In 2002, Plantlife, a conservation charity, selected flowers or plants to represent each county. Humulus Lupulus was selected for Kent, how is it commonly known? A: Hop
Q: The Lake District mountain Great Gable is connected by the pass Windy Gap to which other peak? A: Green Gable
Q: Which African country is bordered by Ivory Coast to the west, Burkina Faso to the north and Togo to the east? A: Ghana
Q: When he published his Theory of Special relativity in 1905, Albert Einstein was working as a patent clerk in which Swiss city? A: Berne
Q: Who was the Test Match Special scorer who died in January 2009? A: Bill Frindall
Q: "According to Kenneth Graham (in Wind in the Willows) there is ""nothing - absolutely nothing half so much worth doing as ..."" what?" A: (simply) messing about in boats
Q: Gary Lightbody is the singer with which group? A: Snow Patrol
Q: Who painted 'Girl with a Pearl Earring' in 1665? A: Johannes Vermeer
Q: Who served as the 19th President of the USA from 1877 to 1881 despite receiving fewer votes than his opponent in the election? A: Rutherford B Hayes
Q: Who was Poet Laureate for the longest period (42 years from 1850 to 1892)? A: Alfred Lord Tennyson
Q: Which South American country is bordered by Guyana to the west and French Guiana to the east? A: Suriname
Q: Which river rises in the Vosges mountains on the border of Alsace and Lorraine and flows through both France and Germany into the Moselle at Konz? A: Saar
Q: In 2002, Plantlife, a conservation charity, selected flowers or plants to represent each county. Viscum album was selected for Herefordshire, how is it commonly known? A: Mistletoe
Q: Who served as the 29th President of the USA from 1921 to 1923 with the largest popular vote in any Presidential election? A: Warren Harding
Q: Albert Einstein was appointed Professor of Theoretical Physics at which Ivy League University in 1933? A: Princeton
Q: Who was Poet Laureate for 37 years, from 1930 to 1967? A: John Masefield
Q: Which form of dementia is named after a German psychiatrist who first described it in 1906? A: Alzheimer's Disease
Q: Two Tree Island, Frog Island and Eel Pie Island are all in which river? A: Thames
Q: Who was the architect of the new Wembley stadium? A: Norman Foster
Q: What make of car does Inspector Morse drive in the TV series? A: Jaguar
Q: Prohibition in the USA was enacted into law by the 'National Prohibition Act'. By what name was this popularly known? A: THE VOLSTEAD ACT
Q: Which substance contained by most other plants, do fungi lack? A: CHLOROPHYLL
Q: "Who wrote the book ""Stalky and Co""?" A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: In the game of backgammon with how many pieces does each player begin? A: 15
Q: Which common garden flower, often used in salads, belongs to the genus Tropaeolum? A: NASTURTIUM
Q: What sort of creature is the axolotl? A: THE SALAMANDER
Q: If a piece of music is described as 'adagio' how should it be played? A: SLOWLY
Q: "Which group had a hit in 1982 with ""Pass the Dutchie""?" A: MUSICAL YOUTH
Q: On which island of New York City is the borough of Brooklyn located? A: LONG ISLAND
Q: In which play does the character Jimmy Porter appear? A: LOOK BACK IN ANGER
Q: At which British ground was the 2002 Champions League final held? A: HAMPDEN PARK
Q: Which of the 'big cats' has the Latin name `Panthera Onca'? A: THE JAGUAR
Q: "In which Gilbert and Sullivan's operetta would you hear the song ""I am the Very Model of a Modern Major General""?" A: THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
Q: Which island lies midway between the Orkney islands and the Shetlands? A: FAIR ISLE
Q: In chess how many different opening moves are there? A: 20
Q: What is the SI-derived unit of frequency? A: THE HERTZ
Q: According to Ian Fleming which real-life public school did the fictional James Bond attend? A: ETON
Q: Which was the only No. 1 hit for Pink Floyd? A: ANOTHER BRICK IN THE WALL
Q: Sarah was the wife of which biblical character? A: ABRAHAM
Q: Who wrote the books on which TVs Inspector Alleyn was based? A: NGAIO MARSH
Q: In which Gilbert & Sullivan Operetta would you see Ralph Rackstraw and Sir Joseph Porter? A: HMS PINAFORE
Q: Which French painter painted 'The Death of Socrates' in 1787 and 'Leonidas at Thermopylae in 1814? A: JACQUES-LOUIS DAVID
Q: Which famous statue by Michelangelo is held in the Galleria dell' Academia in Florence? A: DAVID
Q: Which singer wrote the hit songs 'My Way' for Frank Sinatra and 'She's A Lady' for Tom Jones? A: PAUL ANKA
Q: What is the capital of the island nation of Mauritius? A: PORT LOUIS
Q: In France it would be a cirque, in Scotland a corrie, what would it be called in Wales? A: A CWM
Q: Sixte, octave and riposte are terms used in which sport? A: FENCING
Q: Symond's Yat is a prominent rock feature on the banks of which British river? A: THE WYE
Q: Which English king was married to Isabella of Angouleme? A: KING JOHN
Q: John Harmon is the main protagonist in which Dickens novel? A: OUR MUTUAL FRIEND
Q: What unit of measurement is equal to 1,852 meters or 6,076 feet? A: A NAUTICAL MILE
Q: In the computer term pdf, for what does the d stand? A: DOCUMENT
Q: "Which American actress said of marriage ""It's a great institution, but I'm not ready for an institution yet""?" A: MAE WEST
Q: Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck were pretenders to the English throne during the reign of which King? A: HENRY VII
Q: "Alfred Hitchcock's film ""The Birds"" was inspired by a short novel by which authoress?" A: DAPHNE DU MAURIER
Q: Which Liverpool born actress is missing from the following list: Kristin Davis, Cynthia Nixon and Sarah Jessica Parker? A: KIM CATRELL
Q: Who was the hero of several Sir Arthur Conan Doyle stories first introduced in 'The Lost World'? A: Professor Challenger
Q: Who succeeded King Edward III in 1377? A: Richard II
Q: In the human body which bone runs parallel to the ulna? A: Radius
Q: In the TV drama GBH written by Alan Bleasdale what was the occupation of Michael Palin's character Jim Nelson? A: School Teacher
Q: What was the name of the Wright brothers' first aeroplane? A: Flyer
Q: Who won the 1997 World Snooker Championship? A: Ken Doherty
Q: On which play was the film Cabaret based? A: I Am A Camera
Q: In the Bible who was the long lived son of Enoch mentioned in Genesis? A: Methuselah
Q: Where are the administrative headquarters of the county of Northumberland? A: Morpeth
Q: What is the name of the Japanese verse form of 17 syllables arranged in 3 lines? A: Haiku
Q: In the world of transport what is a VLCC? A: Very Large Crude Carrier
Q: What is the essential ingredient in a dish described as Florentine? A: Spinach
Q: Which city is the state capital of the US state of Maine? A: Augusta
Q: "Which legal term meaning ""as a favour"" indicates something not intended to create a legal binding obligation?" A: Ex Gratia
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet is the equivalent to the English L? A: Lambda
Q: Which 1992 Quentin Tarantino film featured the song 'Stuck in the middle with you'? A: Reservoir Dogs
Q: In the Royal Navy what is the equivalent rank to a Flight Sergeant in the Royal Air Force? A: Chief Petty Officer
Q: In 1964 what was the Kinks' first chart success which reached Number 1? A: You Really Got Me
Q: "Which culinary vegetable has the Latin name ""Allium Sativum""?" A: Garlic
Q: What was the main instrument of the jazz musician Art Tatum? A: Piano
Q: Who is the patron saint of doctors, surgeons, painters and artists? A: Saint Luke
Q: "Churchill described Montgomery as ""in defeat, unbeatable, in victory . . . "" what?" A: Unbearable
Q: Which music hall performer was best known for his songs 'Boiled beef and carrots' and 'Any Old Iron'? A: Harry Champion
Q: Prometheus Bound was written by Aeshylus (524-556BC). Who wrote Prometheus Unbound in 1820AD? A: Percy Bysshe Shelley
Q: Who succeeded King John in 1216? A: Henry III
Q: Tiger, Turks Cap and Stargazer are all types of which plant? A: Lily
Q: The mandible is more commonly known as the lower jaw bone. What is the correct name for the upper jaw bone? A: Maxilla
Q: What was the name of the first Rolls Royce model? A: Silver Ghost
Q: Who won the 1997 British Open? A: Justin Leonard
Q: On which novel by HG Wells was the 1963 musical 'Half a Sixpence' based? A: Kipps
Q: In the Bible, in the book of Kings, who was the evil wife of King Ahab? A: Jezebel
Q: In which town are the administrative headquarters of North Yorkshire? A: Northallerton
Q: How many lines of poetry are in a sonnet? A: 14
Q: What method of transport is sometimes known by the initials ACV? A: Hovercraft
Q: In cooking what is the name given to thin strips of bacon used for flavouring? A: Lardons
Q: What is the state capital of the New England state of New Hampshire? A: Concord
Q: In law what name is given to a written voluntary statement given under oath? A: Affidavit
Q: How many imperial pounds are in an imperial ton? A: 2240
Q: What letter of the Greek alphabet is equivalent to the English K? A: Kappa
Q: What is the lowest of the commissioned ranks in the Royal Air Force? A: Pilot Officer
Q: What would you fear if you suffered from Astraphobia? A: Lightning
Q: In 1963 what was the first chart success of the Rolling Stones which reached number 21 in the charts? A: Come On
Q: Which culinary vegetable has the scientific name `solanum tuberosum'? A: Potato
Q: What is the more common name of the disease pertussis? A: Whooping cough
Q: Which instrument is most closely associated with jazz musician Charlie Mingus? A: Double Bass
Q: By what name is the lowest (or fourth) deck of a typical merchant ship known? A: Orlop
Q: The Galton-Henry system is a method of classifying what? A: Fingerprints
Q: For which London constituency was Winston Churchill MP between 1945-1964? A: Woodford
Q: Which musical performer made famous the song 'Burlington Bertie'? A: Ella Shields
Q: In which land does Puff the Magic Dragon live? A: Honalee
Q: What is a Mexican Black Howler? A: A monkey
Q: What is the nearest national capital city to Bratislava, only 35 miles away? A: Vienna
Q: Modelled on the Spanish bullfight, in which country did the Paso Doble dance originate? A: France
Q: 'Disko Troop' is the captain of the We're Here' fishing vessel in which Rudyard Kipling novel, which was made into a film starring Spencer Tracy? A: Captains Courageous
Q: What was the first name of Stradivari, who lived 1644-1737, and is famous as a manufacturer of stringed musical instruments? A: Antonio
Q: There are three types of muscle in the human body: Skeletal, Smooth and which other? A: Cardiac
Q: What is the official residence of the French President? A: Elysee Palace
Q: Which footballer has won a record 111 caps for Colombia? He is best known for his distinctive blond afro hairstyle and he played in Europe between 1988 and 2001, first for Montpellier and latterly for Real Valladolid. A: Carlos Valderrama
Q: Fado music originated in which country? A: Portugal
Q: Which Luftwaffe bomber was withdrawn from the Battle of Britain because of heavy losses although it was used successfully elsewhere throughout the war? A: Stuka
Q: What name is given to non-volatile computer memory that can be electrically erased and reprogrammed which is primarily used in memory cards, memory sticks etc? A: Flash
Q: Ghandi's march to Dandi in 1931 was a protest against Britain's tax on which commodity? A: Salt
Q: Which 2009 movie is a biopic of Ian Dury, starring Andy Serkis in the title role and Ray Winstone as his father? A: Sex & Drugs & Rock & Roll
Q: "What type of cake kicked off Proust's reminiscences in ""Remembrance of Things Past""?" A: Madeleine
Q: In which Charles Dickens novel do we meet the minor characters: Startop, Mr. Jaggers and Wemmick? A: Great Expectations
Q: Who was the first woman to win the TIME Man of the Year award in 1936? A: Wallis Simpson
Q: "Which native American tribe were famously used as ""Code Talkers"" during WW2, due to the fact that so few people talked their language?" A: Navajo
Q: In which Charles Dickens novel do we meet the minor characters: Tom Pinch, Mark Tapley and Paul Sweedlepipe? A: Martin Chuzzlewit
Q: With which type of wine did Hannibal Lecter say he was going to wash down his Liver and Fava beans? A: (A nice) Chianti
Q: If Strasbourg is 68 and Montpellier is 34, then what number is Paris? A: 75
Q: What-is the official residence of the Mayor of New York City? A: Gracie Mansion
Q: What is the national epic poem of Finland (usually translated as 'Land of Heroes'). Sibelius set some of its myths to music in his tone poems. A: Kalevala
Q: Which philosopher, who was born in Algerian in 1930, originated the deconstruction theory? A: Jacques Derrida
Q: The US flag contains the most stars, having 50, but which country's flag has the second most, with 27 stars? A: Brazil
Q: If Germany is 49 and the United Kingdom is 44, then what number is France? A: 33
Q: Which shipping forecast area lies to the south of Fair Isle and to the west of Forties? A: Cromarty
Q: """Nodor"" and ""Winmau"" are the two leading manufacturers of which item of sport/games equipment?" A: Dartboards
Q: What is the name of the Jewish mystical interpretation of Scripture, which comprises the Sepher Yezirah (Book of Creation) and the Zohar (Splendour) that has become popular with new age types? A: Kabbalah
Q: "If a girl were to say to her boyfriend: ""Mina rakastan sinua"", what language would she be speaking?" A: Finnish
Q: Which Test Match Special commentator has a son who has been a bowler for Sussex CCC since 1994? A: Christopher Martin Jenkins
Q: Which of the five New York boroughs has the largest population? A: Brooklyn
Q: What is the pre-Columbian civilisation that thrived in southern Mexico in 1400 BC, generally considered the first meso-American civilisation? A: Olmec
Q: In which French town, did Jean Claude Killy achieve a clean sweep all of the men's alpine events in the 1968 Winter Olympics? A: Grenoble
Q: 'Captain Hoseason' of the ship the 'Covenant' features in which Robert Louis Stevenson novel, which was made into a film starring Michael Caine? A: Kidnapped
Q: Which prize-winning series of books by Julia Donaldson tell the story of a mouse taking a walk in a dark wood? A: The Gruffalo
Q: Who was the Danish philosopher (1813-1855), who was both a theologian and social critic, he is chiefly remembered today for the primary influence which he exerted upon the philosophical ideas of Existentialism? A: (Soren) Kierkegaard
Q: What are the irregularly-shaped, colourless bodies present in blood whose sticky surface lets them, along with other substances, form clots to stop bleeding when exposed to air? A: Platelet(s)
Q: "Who won the Best Actor Oscar for his role in Billy Wilder's 1953 film ""Stalag 17""?" A: William Holden
Q: "In which TV comedy has fictional actor Andy Millman cried on ""Celebrity Big Brother,"" his agent Darren Lamb suggested anyone other than his only client for roles and Ross Kemp tried to steal sweets off the BBC?" A: Extras
Q: Give a year in the life of composer, conductor and pianist Carl Maria von Weber. A: 1786-1826
Q: What is the first name of the ballet dancer Nijinsky, who was unsuccessfully treated by Eugene Bleuler in Switzerland when diagnosed with schizophrenia? A: Vaslav
Q: Who was President of the International Olympic Committee from 1952 to 1972, who made the decision to continue the 1972 Munich Olympic Games despite a terrorist attack? A: Avery Brundage
Q: Of the exclusive London clubs which one was founded in 1824, has its address at 107, Pall Mall, SW1 and shares its name with a club in Liverpool? A: The Athenaeum
Q: """The Last Man In Europe"" was the working title of which novel?" A: 1984
Q: The Battle of Northampton was fought in which century? A: 15th
Q: The Battle of Dungeness was fought in which century? A: 17th
Q: In which British town or city is the National Railway Museum? A: York
Q: Which bird was the subject of an ode by John Keats? A: Nightingale
Q: Which 1968 film starring Jane Fonda was based on the French comics created by Jean-Claude Forest? A: Barbarella
Q: Anne Boleyn was one of the two wives of Henry 8th to be executed, who was the other? A: Catherine Howard
Q: On a traditional Monopoly board, Marylebone, King's Cross and Liverpool Street are three of the stations, name the fourth. A: Fenchurch Street
Q: By what name is the medical condition adhesive capsulitis more commonly known? A: Frozen shoulder
Q: "About which pastime is Oscar Wilde reputed to have said ""The unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable""?" A: Foxhunting
Q: Of the teams playing in the current (2011-12) Premiership, which was the first to win the FA Cup, winning in 1884? A: Blackburn Rovers
Q: Which 1980s pop group, lead singer Dave Gahan, took its name from a French fashion magazine? A: Depeche Mode
Q: Titan, Rhea and Hyperion are all satellites of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: What is the occupation of Figaro in the opera by Rossini? A: Barber
Q: "Which female wit is reputed to have said ""Give a man a free hand and he'll run it all over you""?" A: Mae West
Q: According to the Bible who was the mother of Esau and Jacob? A: Rebekah
Q: In which British town or city is the National Media Museum? A: Bradford
Q: What was the name of Benjamin Britten's opera about a lonely, isolated fisherman? A: Peter Grimes
Q: Before embarking on her solo career, Nicole Scherzinger was best known as the lead singer in which girl group? A: Pussycat Dolls
Q: Which model of Ford car took its name from a 'light or west wind'? A: Zephyr
Q: In which country is Mount Ararat (where Noah's Ark is reputed to have come to rest) the highest peak? A: Turkey
Q: Which company manufactured the World War 2 `Stuka' dive- bomber? A: Junkers
Q: Stanislas Wawrinka represents which country in international tennis? A: Switzerland
Q: As one of his twelve Labours, Heracles was sent to Mount Erymanthos to capture which animal? A: A boar
Q: According to the Bible, Nebuchadnezzar was the King of which region or empire? A: Babylon
Q: The Churn, the Windrush, the Cherwell and the Mole are all tributaries of which major river? A: Thames
Q: The satellites of which planet are nearly all named after Shakespearean characters? A: Uranus
Q: On a traditional Monopoly board, Regent Street and Bond Street are two of the green properties, name the third? A: Oxford Street
Q: Which is the only vertebrate animal, not a bird that is able to maintain flight for any duration? A: Bat
Q: Which National Trust property contains the lake from which Colin Firth emerged in a BBC TV adaptation of 'Pride and Prejudice'? A: Lyme Park
Q: The 'Arab Spring' uprising in Egypt during 2011 was inspired by the 'Jasmine Revolt' which took place in which country? A: Tunisia
Q: Which city stands at the confluence of the Sava and Danube rivers? A: Belgrade
Q: Which British Prime Minister sewed for the shortest total time in office (119 days)? A: George Canning
Q: Before embarking on her solo career, Beyonce Knowles was best known as the lead singer in which girl group? A: Destiny's Child
Q: Who has played Dick Tracy, Bugsy Siegel and Clyde Barrow on film? A: Warren Beatty
Q: Pearl Roundabout has been a scene of political protests, in which city is it? A: Manama
Q: Which TV period drama is based on the writings of Flora Thompson and features the characters Dorcas Lane, Thomas Brown and Laura Timmins? A: Larkrise to Candleford
Q: Which company manufactured the World War 2 'A6M Zero' fighter aircraft? A: Mitsubishi
Q: Who is the founder of the Wikileaks website? A: Julian Assange
Q: In the grounds of which house is the Emperor Fountain? A: Chatsworth
Q: Which model of Ford car took its name from an Italian alpine resort? A: Cortina
Q: Whose film roles include Terry Malloy, Stanley Kowalski and Vito Corleone? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Who was the first chairman of Radio 4's 'The News Quiz' in 1977, a role later filled for many years by Barry Took? A: Barry Norman
Q: Who was named 'Person of the Year 2010' by Time Magazine, the youngest winner since the first award in 1927? A: Mark Zuckerberg
Q: At 325m Beacon Batch is the highest point in which range of English hills? A: Mendips
Q: As one of his twelve Labours, Heracles was sent to steal which animals from Diomedes? A: Mares
Q: "Whose last words were ""Tomorrow I shall no longer be here""?" A: Nostradamus
Q: Used in cookery in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, what is `Jaggery'? A: Sugar
Q: John Galliano was dismissed from his post as chief designer at which fashion house? A: Dior
Q: What year did the Good Friday Agreement come into effect? A: 1998
Q: What year did the burning of the Reichstag take place? A: 1933
Q: Goodwood racecourse is in which county? A: (WEST) SUSSEX
Q: Give a year in the life of author/poet Edgar Alan Poe? A: 1809-1849
Q: What is the SI unit of magnetic flux? A: WEBER
Q: "Who composed the ""Threepenny Opera""?" A: KURT WEILL
Q: What month in 1961 did the Bay of Pigs attack on Cuba take place? A: APRIL
Q: A ratel is what type of animal? A: BADGER
Q: 'Windmills of your mind' was hit in 1969 for which artist? A: NOEL HARRISON
Q: What is the capital of Fiji? A: SUVA
Q: Which South American national team has won the Copa de America most times? A: URUGUAY
Q: "Who composed the opera ""The Merry Widow""?" A: FRANZ LEHAR
Q: What dynastic family name of Cleopatra? A: PTOLEMY
Q: A quagga, now extinct, bore qresemblance to which other mammal? A: ZEBRA
Q: Who played the role of the 'Riddle? in the 1960s TV series Batman? A: FRANK GORSHIN
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Lovely Bones""?" A: ALICE SEBOLD
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Who's afraid of Virginia Wolf'?" A: EDWARD ALBEE
Q: Edward Heath was MP for which constituency? A: BEXLEY
Q: How many times did Martina Navratilova win the Wimbledon woman's singles championship? A: 9
Q: ES is the chemical symbol for which element? A: EINSTEINIUM
Q: The dunnock is more commonly known as what bird? A: HEDGE SPARROW
Q: Name the cricketer who played for Gloucestershire and England who scored 7,249 runs and 22 centuries in test matches? A: WALLY HAMMOND
Q: Lady's Slipper is a member of which plant family? A: ORCHID
Q: What is the name of the strait separating Norway and Denmark? A: SKAGERRAK
Q: Which European country recently passed a law legalizing divorce? A: MALTA
Q: Who was on the throne of England in 1150? A: STEPHEN
Q: "The cult film ""Assault on Precinct 13"" was directed by whom?" A: JOHN CARPENTER
Q: At which battle did the Vietminh defeat French forces in 1954? A: DIEN BIEN PHU
Q: Gordon Brown is MP for which constituency? A: KIRKCALDY AND COWDENBEATH
Q: What was the nationality of 2011 Wimbledon Women's Singles Championship winner? A: CZECH
Q: In the Bible who was the wife of Boaz? A: RUTH
Q: Which artist headlined final day of Glastonbury festival 2011? A: BEYONCE
Q: Miriam Karlin who died recently had a cameo role in which 1970's Stanley Kubrick film? A: CLOCKWORK ORANGE
Q: What part of the brain is predominantly associated with memory? A: HIPPOCAMPUS
Q: Adele has had several recent album successes, in which English city was she born? A: LONDON
Q: What is the name of the French underground resistance who fought against Germany in WWII? A: MAQUIS
Q: "Who wrote the 1960 novel ""Country Girls""?" A: EDNA O'BRIEN
Q: On which West Indian island was cricketer Gary Sobers born? A: BARBADOS
Q: In the Bible who was the wife of Ahab? A: JEZEBEL
Q: The port of Pusan is in which country? A: SOUTH KOREA
Q: Who was on the throne of England in 1472? A: EDWARD IV
Q: Give a year in the life of composer Puccini. A: 1858-1924
Q: In Greek mythology who drowned while swimming the Hellespont? A: LEANDER
Q: In the USA what 'day' is celebrated on February 2nd, it is also the title of a film? A: Groundhog Day
Q: The title of which famous film is also the name of a North African city whose name translates as 'white house'? A: Casablanca
Q: Which licence, costing 37p, was abolished in 1987? A: Dog licence
Q: As illustrated on its label, Marmite gets its name from the French word meaning what? A: Cooking pot
Q: Baumwolle is the German word for which fabric? A: Cotton
Q: What name is given to the group of French speaking people living in areas of Southern Belgium? A: Walloons
Q: What name is given to the Mafia code of silence? A: Omerta
Q: How are the first ten amendments to the US Constitution collectively known? A: The Bill of Rights
Q: In which English building is the world's oldest working clock, dating back to 1386? A: Salisbury Cathedral
Q: The famous Viennese dessert `Sachertorte' is a type of what? A: Chocolate cake
Q: Ascorbic acid is an essential dietary requirement, how is it more commonly known? A: Vitamin C
Q: In 1964, which English cricketer became the first bowler to take 300 Test wickets? A: Fred Trueman
Q: Who was the elder brother of Henry 8th who died before he could become king? A: Prince Arthur
Q: The 'Short' and the 'Long' Parliaments were both in the reign of which monarch? A: Charles 1st
Q: Lusitania was the Roman name for which country? A: Portugal
Q: Who plays Reggie Perrin in the BBC TV remake of the classic comedy series? A: Martin Clunes
Q: What, on an aircraft, is the 'empennage'? A: Tail or tail assembly
Q: What name is given to the tail of a rabbit or hare? A: Scut
Q: What is the popular name given to Beethoven's Piano Sonata number 23? A: Appassionata
Q: Which battle took place on 21st October 1805? A: Trafalgar
Q: Who, in 1811, postulated that 'when at the same temperature and pressure, equal volumes of gases contain equal numbers of molecules'? A: Avogadro
Q: Which nut or seed is used in the Italian sauce pesto? A: Pine
Q: Who made his directorial debut with the 1998 film 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'? A: Guy Ritchie
Q: A theme park about 22 miles north of Paris is named after which cartoon character? A: Asterix
Q: In Greek myth who was the mother of Oedipus? A: Jocasta
Q: Which retail company markets the clothing label 'Per Una'? A: Marks & Spencer
Q: What is the major ingredient in the curry dish 'Dopiaza'? A: Onion
Q: Who introduces the weekly jazz music show on Radio 2 every Tuesday evening at 7.00pm? A: Jamie Cullum
Q: Which large island lies off the coast of Los Angeles? A: (Santa) Catalina
Q: Which Edinburgh physicist has given his name to a sub-atomic particle which has not yet been observed? A: (Peter) Higgs
Q: Ant & Dec first appeared on TV together in which series? A: Byker Grove
Q: In which ballet is there a 'sugar plum fairy'? A: Nutcracker
Q: Which island lies off the coast of Barrow-in-Furness? A: Walney
Q: Which motorway ends in Blackpool? A: M55
Q: Who was the original presenter of BBC TV's 'A Question of Sport'? A: David Vine
Q: How is Bristolian Robin Cunningham known in the art world? A: Banksy
Q: Against which football team does Barcelona contest the 'local derby'? A: Espanyol
Q: From what is the Japanese sauce wasabi made? A: Horseradish
Q: In which ballet is Swanhilde jealous of a mechanical doll? A: Coppelia_
Q: Who was the first Governor of a southern US state to go on to become President after the Civil War? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: In the current series of car registration plates (2 letters, a 2 digit number then 3 letters), which was the first 2 digit number to be used? A: 51
Q: Who introduces the weekly folk music show on Radio 2 every Wednesday evening at 7 00pm? A: Mike Harding
Q: What name is given to scouts aged between 6 and 8 years old? A: Beavers
Q: Gertrude Jekyll (1843-1932) was famous for her work in which field? A: Gardens
Q: Which was the last space shuttle to fly, completing its last mission in July 2011? A: Atlantis
Q: In which country were the boxing Klitschko brothers born? A: Ukraine
Q: What was the name of the United Arab Emirates before the end of the protectorate in 1971? A: Trucial States
Q: Which fictional character travelled on a ship called 'Antelope'? A: Gulliver
Q: Birchfield Harriers Athletics Club is based in which English city? A: Birmingham
Q: Which US tennis player won the Australian, Wimbledon and French Women's Singles in 1999, also the Gold Medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Games? A: Lindsay Davenport
Q: "Which British alternative rock band won the Mercury Prize in 2008 with the album ""The Seldom Seen Kid""?" A: Elbow
Q: Which US President made the first phone call to the moon? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Which animal is the smallest true monkey? A: Pygmy Marmoset
Q: How many arms has a starfish? A: Five
Q: In which year was the £1 note introduced; Burnley beat Liverpool 1-0 in the FA Cup Final; Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated? A: 1914
Q: Michael O'Rourke and Leonard Ryan established which satellite network? A: Setanta
Q: What is the oldest named English cheese? A: Cheshire
Q: Which motorway crosses the original Severn Bridge? A: M48
Q: In which year was the BBC granted a Royal Charter of Incorporation; Cardiff City beat Arsenal 1-0 at Wembley; Charles Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic Ocean? A: 1927
Q: How many Parliamentary constituencies are there in the UK? A: 650
Q: "Which US composer, conductor and pianist has written the music for over 100 films, starting with ""Daddy-O"" in 1958, his latest is the 2012 film ""Lincoln""?" A: John Williams
Q: Which M62 spur runs from Cleckheaton to Bradford? A: M606
Q: Which 2009 Formula One Grand Prix was run at night time? A: Singapore
Q: Gillian Gilks (nee Perrin, later Goodwin) was an exponent in which sport? A: Badminton
Q: What was contained in the Ark of the Covenant? A: Ten Commandments
Q: The EGX 30 index is the name of which country's stock market? A: Egypt
Q: What is the name of Hong Kong's stock market Index? A: Hang Seng
Q: "Which US actor/comedian originally sung ""I Wish I Was Eighteen Again""?" A: George Burns
Q: Which BBC Radio Lancashire presenter succeeded Tim Gudgin as reader of the sports results on Grandstand and Final Score? A: Mike West
Q: In which Italian city are the HQ of Ducati motorcycles? A: Bologna
Q: The rivers Axe, Brue, Cary, Parrett, eta, are in which English county? A: Somerset
Q: Who took over from Gordon Burns on BBC TV's North West Tonight? A: Roger Johnson
Q: Which American rock band took its name from a pickup truck? A: Reo Speedwagon
Q: Which patron saint was believed to have lived on locusts and honey? A: St. John the Baptist
Q: What is the national bird of England, and Ireland? A: (European) Robin
Q: Which WW2 bomber was made entirely of wood? A: The Mosquito
Q: Which US president vetoed the Volstead Act in 1919? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Where, within the British Isles, in the world's oldest whiskey distillery? A: bushmills county antrim
Q: The Dutch Super Cup, played between the Eredivisie winners and the winner of the KNVB Cup, is named after which footballer? A: Johan Cruyff
Q: Plovdiv and Varna airports, et al, are in which European country? A: Bulgaria
Q: "Which of the Twelve Apostles of Ireland is called The Navigator', ""The Voyager', or The Bold'?" A: St. Brendan
Q: Opera buffa is a formal description of what? A: (Italian) Comic Opera
Q: Which world famous distillery is in Lynchburg, Tennessee, USA? A: Jack Daniels
Q: Which German developed the concept of the kindergarten? A: (Friedrich) Froebel
Q: Tarbes and Pau airports serve which French town? A: Lourdes
Q: Which aircraft is the largest passenger airliner currently in service? A: Airbus 380
Q: Allium sativum is the Latin name for which vegetable? A: Garlic
Q: Whose education system lays emphasis on independence, freedom within limits, and respect for a child's psychological development, etc? A: (Maria) Montessori
Q: Which Austrian scientist was the founder of genetics? A: (Gregor Johann) Mendel
Q: What name is given to a blood-filled balloon-like bulge in a blood vessel? A: Aneurism
Q: The daily newspaper The Tennessean' is published in which city? A: Nashville
Q: Sant Francesc Xavier is the capital of which Balearic island? A: Formentera
Q: David Moyes played in what position during his football career? A: Centre Half
Q: "Which English poet (1608-1674) wrote the opening line: ""When I consider how my light was spent""?" A: (John) Milton
Q: Name the Greek goddess of divine retribution. A: Nemesis
Q: Lod airport (now Ben Gurion International Airport) serves which Asian city? A: Tel Aviv
Q: Name the Greek goddess of peace. A: Irene
Q: Narita international airport serves which city? A: Tokyo
Q: Jazz fusion musician Pat Metheny plays which instrument? A: Guitar
Q: Philippa of Hainault was the wife of which English king? A: Edward the Third
Q: Central America's Panama seceded from which country in 1903? A: Columbia
Q: Ringing Roger and Grindslow Knoll are features in which English National Park? A: The Peak District
Q: "Who had 1960's hits with ""Forget Me Not"", ""I Don't Know Why"", and ""Boys Cry""?" A: Eden Kane
Q: What is the family name of the Dukes of Bedford? A: Russell
Q: "Give the name of the character played by Oscar winning actor Edmund Gwenn in the 1947 film ""Miracle on 34th Street""." A: Kris Kringle
Q: What is the family name of the Earl of Harewood? A: Lascelles
Q: In which year did Mozart die? A: 1791
Q: In which English city is Paragon Station? A: Hull
Q: "Who had 1960's Top Ten hits with ""A Hundred Pounds of Clay"", ""Time"" and ""Our Favourite Melodies""?" A: Craig Douglas
Q: Who preceded Neville Chamberlain as Prime Minister? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: Ludlow, Shropshire lies on the bend of which river? A: Teme
Q: In which year did Beethoven die? A: 1827
Q: Jazz musician McCoy Tyner plays which instrument? A: Piano
Q: What is the most northerly county of the Irish Republic? A: Co. Donegal
Q: What is the literary term for deliberate understatement? A: Litotes
Q: Thorpe Station is in which English city? A: Norwich
Q: Name the year: Chernenko dies; the Achille Lauro is hi-jacked; a Japanese Air Lines 747 crashes killing 520 people. A: 1985
Q: Which Army rank equates to the RAF rank of Wing Commander? A: Lieutenant Colonel
Q: Which Yorkshire crime writer created the character Chief Inspector Banks? A: Peter Robinson
Q: The artists Ben Nicholson, Barbara Hepworth, Terry Frost, and Patrick Heron are primarily associated with which English seaside resort? A: St. Ives
Q: Astana is the capital city of which former Soviet republic? A: Kazakhstan
Q: "The oldest film festival in the world awards the ""Golden Lion"" as its top prize. In which city is it held?" A: Venice
Q: "The American TV series 'The Wire"" is set in which city?" A: Baltimore
Q: Which German city was the target of the first 1000 bomber raid in 1942? A: Cologne
Q: Hlobane and Isandhlwana were battles in which 19th century conflict? A: (Anglo-)Zulu War
Q: To within 10 miles, how long is the Pennine Way, running from Edale in the Peak District to Kirk Yetholm in the Scottish Borders? A: 267 miles
Q: "Michael Caine portrayed which officer in the 1964 film ""Zulu""?" A: Lt. Gonville Bromhead
Q: To within 10 miles, how long is Alfred Wainwright's Coast to Coast walk, from St. Bees, Cumbria, to Robin Hood's Bay, Yorkshire? A: 192 miles
Q: Which American baseball team was formed in 1962 to replace the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants? A: New York Mets
Q: "Which Scottish author wrote ""A Good Man in Africa"", ""The New Confessions"", and his most recent novel ""Ordinary Thunderstorms""?" A: William Boyd
Q: Which former American baseball player currently holds the records for both most home runs in a season, and most career home runs? A: Barry Bonds
Q: In the UK, which creature is often known as a 'Rumpy'? A: A Manx Cat
Q: In contract rubber bridge, how many points are awarded for successfully making a non-vulnerable contract of four Spades? A: 120
Q: How many checkers (pieces) does each player start with in a game of backgammon? A: Fifteen
Q: Where was the specific location of the nuclear accident in the USA in 1979? A: Three Mile Island
Q: The American Bill Viola is associated with which art form? A: Video
Q: In the internationally recognised educational organisation 'IBO'', for what does the letter 'B' stand? A: Baccalaureate
Q: Which American state is nicknamed the Com Husker state? A: Nebraska
Q: "What is the 10th letter in the Greek alphabet and is equivalent to the English letter ""K""?" A: Kappa
Q: What name was given to the followers of John Wycliffe? A: Lollards
Q: "Who played Jean Harlow in the 1965 film ""Harlow""?" A: Carroll Baker
Q: "Who painted ""Girl with a Pearl Earring"" circa 1665?" A: Johannes Vermeer
Q: "Who directed the 1980 film ""Ordinary People""?" A: Robert Redford
Q: Which writer had a cat called Hodge? A: Dr Johnson
Q: To which animal does the adjective aquiline refer? A: Eagle
Q: "Near which city did Shakespeare's ""A Midsummer Night's Dream"" take place?" A: Athens
Q: "What is the meaning of the Latin phrase ""Agnus Dei""?" A: Lamb of God
Q: Verulamium is the Roman name for which English city? A: St Albans
Q: What Hindi name is given to a keeper or driver of elephants? A: Mahout
Q: In Greek mythology who was the wife of Odysseus? A: Penelope
Q: Which American invented the Polaroid camera in 1947? A: Edwin Land
Q: What is the SI unit of pressure? A: Pascal
Q: "Which author wrote ""If not actually disgruntled, he was far from gruntled""?" A: P G Wodehouse
Q: How many players are there in a tug of war team? A: 8
Q: In the Bible who was the father of Joseph and Benjamin? A: Jacob
Q: Which American state is nicknamed the Treasure state? A: Montana
Q: "Which is the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet and is equivalent to the English letter ""L""?" A: Lambda
Q: Give a year in the life of Vasco de Gama. A: 1460-1524
Q: In which constellation is the star Regulus? A: Leo
Q: Which religious body was originally called Russelites? A: Jehovah's Witnesses
Q: "Which actress caused a sensation by appearing naked in the 1933 film ""Ecstasy""?" A: Hedy Lamarr
Q: Onward, Fertility and Merton Pride are all varieties of which fruit? A: Pear
Q: "Which disease of the central nervous system is named after the Englishman who wrote ""An Essay on the Shaking Palsy"" in 1817?" A: Parkinson's Disease
Q: Who was Poet Laureate for the longest period (42 years 1850-1892)? A: Alfred Lord Tennyson
Q: "Who painted ""The garden of earthly delights"" circa 1504?" A: Hieronymus Bosch
Q: Which is the smallest country in area in South America? A: Surinam(e)
Q: "Which Oscar-winning actress directed the film ""Little Man Tate"" in 1991?" A: Jodie Foster
Q: Which Australian partnered John Lloyd to three Grand Slam Mixed Doubles titles in the 1980s? A: Wendy Turnbull
Q: "In which city does the majority of the Shakespeare play ""The Taming of the Shrew"" take place?" A: Padua
Q: Aqua Sulis was the Latin name for which English city? A: Bath
Q: What nationality was Formula 1 motor racing champion Juan Fangio? A: Argentinian
Q: Which Scotsman invented the vacuum flask in 1892? A: James Dewar
Q: "Who described cauliflower as a ""cabbage with a college education""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: On which river does Lincoln stand? A: Witham
Q: In the Bible who was the son of Abraham and Sarah? A: Isaac
Q: According to the Talmud who was the first wife of Adam? A: Lilith
Q: How many cards are there in a Tarot pack? A: 78
Q: Who was the Irish dancer who was the founder of the Bluebell Girls? A: Margaret Kelly
Q: Which Polynesian word means forbidden? A: Taboo
Q: In which sport did Stanley Matthews' father achieve success? A: Boxing
Q: How long is allowed between games in an APT (professional) tennis match? A: 90 SECONDS
Q: Which is the only spice quoted on the stock market? A: PEPPER
Q: The National Gallery is situated in which London square? A: TRAFALGAR
Q: Which was the last pitched battle to be fought on English soil? A: SEDGEMOOR
Q: Elizabeth Woodville was the wife of which English King? A: EDWARD IV
Q: "Who wrote the Elvis Presley song ""Blue Suede Shoes""" A: CARL PERKINS
Q: How long is allowed between serves in an APT tennis match i.e. between 1st and 2nd serve? A: 20 SECONDS
Q: Travelling outward from the sun which is the first planet with a satellite? A: EARTH
Q: Which celebrity named his son (nickname) 'Blanket'? A: MICHAEL JACKSON
Q: Which rank in the British Army was abolished in 1907? A: COMMANDER IN CHIEF
Q: Which American State Capital has the same name as its state? A: OKLAHOMA CITY
Q: What name is traditionally given to the hangman in a Punch and Judy Show, named after Charles 1st executioner? A: JOHN KETCH
Q: Which medal formerly for the RAF was introduced in 1918 for bravery of officers, but now is for all ranks of the service? A: D.F.C.
Q: Which trees were the subject of paintings by Monet in 1891? A: POPLAR
Q: "Which ""Bond Girl"" has a mother who is from Liverpool?" A: HALLE BERRY
Q: Who is credited with the invention of bi-focal glasses? A: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Q: The cornet, trombone, tuba and euphonium are instruments in a brass band. Name one other? A: FLUGELHORN
Q: Banjo Patterson is credited with writing which song a national favourite of its country? A: WALTZING MATILDA
Q: Which Indian City is known as the Silicon Valley of India? A: BANGALORE
Q: Which drink has major commercial types called Robusta and Arabica? A: COFFEE
Q: Which English statesman, lawyer and scientist died after catching pneumonia from stuffing a chicken with snow? A: FRANCIS BACON
Q: What is the highest peak in Germany? A: THE ZUGSPITZE
Q: "The Trevi Fountain scene in ""La Dolca Vita"" featured which Swedish starlet?" A: ANITA EKBERG
Q: Which Shakespeare character dies saying 'the rest is silence'? A: HAMLET
Q: Who is the patron saint of the Order of the Garter? A: ST GEORGE
Q: """Building Better Worlds"" Weyland-Yutani Corp features in which sci-fi film series?" A: ALIEN
Q: Where was Hitler's mountain hideout? A: BERCHTESGADEN
Q: The cricketer Derek Randall had which, racehorse -related, nickname? A: ARKLE
Q: Adria Airways is the airline of which former Yugoslav State? A: SLOVENIA
Q: Which sport is supervised in Scotland by the Camanachd Association? A: SHINTY
Q: What is the name of the Speaker of the House of Commons? A: JOHN BERCOW
Q: Aqua Fortis is another name for which liquid? A: NITRIC ACID
Q: Which US President's portrait appears on the US $5 bill? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: "Which philosopher said ""The State is not abolished it withers away""?" A: FRIEDRICH ENGELS
Q: 'What is the currency of Zambia? A: THE KWACHA
Q: Warts are part of which virus family? A: PAPOVAVIRUS
Q: "Which philosopher said that the life of man was ""solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short""?" A: THOMAS HOBBS
Q: The Butcher bird is another name for which bird? T A: SHRIKE
Q: Which town in Italy is the home of violin making? A: CREMONA
Q: By which treaty was Gibraltar formally ceded to Great Britain in 1713? A: THE TREATY OF UTRECHT
Q: Who wrote 'An Enemy of the People'? A: HENRICK IBSEN
Q: Which Beethoven Symphony was originally dedicated to Napoleon? A: THE THIRD
Q: Who wrote the music for Berthold Brecht's `The Beggars Opera'? A: KURT WEILL
Q: Which British Army rank comes after Brigadier? A: MAJOR GENERAL
Q: Which rank in the Royal Navy is the equivalent to the rank of Colonel in the British Army? A: CAPTAIN
Q: Shepton Dash in 1961 was the first dog to advertise which product? A: Dulux Paint
Q: From which city do the groups Human League and Def Leppard originate? A: Sheffield
Q: Clint Reno, Vince Everett and Danny Fisher are roles played in films by whom? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Who is the Prime Minister of Canada? A: Stephen Harper
Q: Who was the first Pope of the Roman Catholic Church? A: St Peter
Q: Which greyhound won 32 consecutive races in the 1980s? A: Ballyregan Bob
Q: The Starlight Barking was a 1967 sequel to which children's novel? A: 101 Dalmatians
Q: What is formed by the confluence of the Ouse and Trent rivers? A: Humber
Q: Valentine, Glaskins Perpetual and Hawke's Champagne are varieties of which food plant? A: Rhubarb
Q: What is the name of the diacritical mark in Spanish which is placed over a letter 'n' to soften its pronunciation, e.g. in the word 'señor'? A: Tilde
Q: What was ended by the Treaty of Vereeniging? A: The (Second) Boer War
Q: The first Butlin's holiday camp opened in 1936 in which resort? A: Skegness
Q: What is the only Scrabble tile with a value not shared by any others? A: K
Q: What was the first name of the French artist Poussin (1594-1665)? A: Nicolas
Q: For what product is the city of Carrara in Italy most famous? A: Marble
Q: What was Michelangelo's family name? A: Buonarroti
Q: Who sculpted the figure of Eleanor Rigby in Liverpool's Stanley Street? A: Tommy Steele
Q: Which of the United States was the 14th to join the Union (i.e. the first to join after the original 13)? A: Vermont
Q: According to Winston Churchill, in a speech of 1946, the Iron Curtain ran from Stettin in the Baltic to which other port? A: Trieste
Q: In the books by Sue Townsend, Adrian Mole was supposedly born in which English county? A: Leicestershire
Q: What is the country of origin of the Falabella horse? A: Argentina
Q: "Who wrote the 19th century detective novel ""The Moonstone""?" A: Wilkie Collins
Q: In Shakespeare's Macbeth which character speaks the last words of the play? A: Malcolm
Q: In Mathematics on a 2-dimensional graph, what is the name given to the point of intersection of the x and y axes? A: Origin
Q: In the Enid Blyton stories-what is the name of Noddy's house? A: House for One
Q: If a dish includes 'Du Barry' in its name what ingredient does it contain? A: Cauliflower
Q: What white grapes are used to make champagne? A: Chardonnay
Q: Which British city's assay office uses a castle as its hallmark for precious metals? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which unit of length is equal to 3.26 light years? A: Parsec
Q: What was the exact London address of Sherlock Holmes? A: 221B Baker Street
Q: In 1805 Mungo Park was sent to trace the course of which river? A: Niger
Q: Cornish Yarg cheese is wrapped in the leaves of which plant? A: Nettle
Q: Melissophobia is the fear of what? A: Bees
Q: Which writer's autobiography was published in 2010, 100 years after his death as instructed in his will? A: Mark Twain
Q: In Australian cricket what are 'extras' known as? A: Sundries
Q: In which country was Roald Dahl born? A: Wales
Q: Which line on the London Underground has the most stations? A: District
Q: Which musician lived at 9 Madryn Street Liverpool? A: Ringo Starr
Q: What was the middle name of Captain James Kirk? A: Tiberius
Q: "Who sculpted ""The Gates of Hell"" depicting a scene from Dante's Inferno from 1880 until his death in 1917?" A: Auguste Rodin
Q: What is the capital of Tanzania? A: Dodoma
Q: "Who wrote the poem The Wreck of the Hesperus""?" A: (Henry Wadsworth) Longfellow
Q: The Battle of Inchon took place during which war? A: Korean
Q: "Who composed and sang the theme tune for ""One Foot in the Grave""?" A: Eric Idle
Q: Before the 20th century, what nationality was the last non-Italian Pope? A: Dutch
Q: "In which Shakespeare play will you find the jester ""Touchstone""?" A: As You Like It
Q: Which was the last Olympic Games to be opened by a ruling British monarch? A: Montreal
Q: In which 2002 film did Richard Gere play the part of Billy Flynn? A: Chicago
Q: "Who painted ""The Boyhood of Raleigh'?" A: (John Everett) Millais
Q: In the Royal Navy which rank is below Commodore and above Commander? A: Captain
Q: "Who composed the opera ""Don Giovanni""?" A: Mozart
Q: Which chemical element, atomic no. 41, is named after the daughter of King Tantalus? A: Niobium
Q: Which team were the last winners of football's First Division before the formation of the Premier League? A: Leeds United
Q: "Who plays the part of Charlie Fairhead in TV's ""Casualty""?" A: Derek Thompson
Q: SNN is the international code for which European airport? A: Shannon, Ireland
Q: Which US state is bordered by Massachusetts, New York and New Hampshire? A: Vermont
Q: Which letter is represented in Morse code by 'dot dot'? A: The letter 'i'
Q: What single number is considered to be lucky in China? A: Eight
Q: "Who directed the 1947 film ""It's a Wonderful Life""?" A: Frank Capra
Q: Which author was married to Catherine Hogarth? A: Charles Dickens
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""Samson Agonistes""?" A: John Milton
Q: The Battle of Shiloh took place during which war? A: US Civil War
Q: "What is the name of the theme tune for ""Monty Python's Flying Circus""?" A: Liberty Bell
Q: In which Shakespeare play will you find the servant 'Lancelot Gobbo'? A: The Merchant of Venice
Q: What is the middle name of ex-US President Jimmy Carter? A: Earl
Q: Who lit the Olympic flame at the Atlanta Games in 1996? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: In which 1980 film did John Hurt play the part of John Merrick? A: The Elephant Man
Q: "Who painted ""The Rokeby Venus"", to be found in the National Gallery?" A: Diego Velazquez
Q: In the Army, which rank comes below Major General and above Colonel? A: Brigadier
Q: "Who composed the opera ""Eugene Onegin""?" A: Tchaikovsky
Q: Which Briton won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1983? A: William Golding
Q: Winston Churchill was MP for which constituency from 1924-1945? A: Epping
Q: Which chemical element, atomic no. 97, is named after a US university? A: Berkelium
Q: Who were the first winners of the Football League in 1889? A: Preston North End
Q: Which US state is bordered by Massachussetts, Rhode Island and New York? A: Connecticut
Q: Which letter is represented in Morse code by 'dash dash'? A: The Letter M
Q: Which Roman road ran from Rome to Brindisi? A: Appian Way
Q: Which US state is known as the Keystone State? A: Pennsylvania
Q: Coulrophobia is the fear of what type of entertainers? A: Clowns
Q: Which car company makes the model 'Zafira'? A: Vauxhall
Q: A 'Royal Sovereign' is a variety of which fruit? A: Strawberry
Q: How many fluid ounces are there in a US pint? A: Sixteen
Q: "Who directed the 2011 film ""The King's Speech""?" A: Tom Hooper
Q: "In ""Alice in Wonderland"", what type of pipe did the caterpillar smoke?" A: Hookah
Q: Where would you apply to become a lighthouse keeper in England and Wales? A: Trinity House
Q: Which Greek word meaning 'hidden writings' first appeared in the Luther Bible of 1534? A: APOCRYPHA
Q: John Maus died in May 2011, of which pop group had he been a member? A: THE WALKER BROTHERS
Q: Which novelist is known as 'The Queen of the Aga saga'? A: JOANNA TROLLOPE
Q: Teddy Bears with a trademark button in the ear are made by which company? A: STEIFF
Q: Which French General and statesman took part in the Battle of Yorktown? A: LAFAYETTE
Q: What type of bird is a gadwall? A: DUCK
Q: Which power station building was adapted to become the Tate Modern Art Gallery? A: BANKSIDE
Q: What is the name of the straight line joining any two points on the circumference of a circle? A: A CHORD
Q: 'In truth I know not why I am so sad' is the first line of which Shakespeare play? A: The MERCHANT OF VENICE
Q: In which modern Olympic Games were women allowed to compete for the first time? (Date or venue) A: PARIS 1900
Q: What title is held by the heir to the Spanish throne? A: PRINCE of ASTURIAS
Q: Who, better known as an actor and comedian, released his debut blues album in 2011 called 'Let Them Talk'? A: HUGH LAURIE
Q: Which group released the album 'Tango in the Night' in 1987? A: FLEETWOOD MAC
Q: In Shakespeare's 'As you like It', what name does Rosalind take when she poses as a boy? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Which author writes about the Italian policeman Aurelio Zen? A: Michael DIBDIN
Q: 'Someone like You is a 2011 song on whose 2nd studio album? A: ADELE
Q: To which bird family does a puffin belong? A: AUK
Q: Differentiation and what are the two main operations of calculus? A: INTEGRATION
Q: To whom was Catherine of Aragon married before she married Henry 8th? A: PRINCE ARTHUR
Q: 'Leave it to luck' or 'leave luck to heaven' is the translation from Japanese of which company's name? A: NINTENDO
Q: What is the final event of the women's heptathlon? A: 800 metres
Q: Who was the mother of twins, Apollo and Artemis? A: LETO
Q: Which element is the final result of the radioactive decay of uranium? A: LEAD
Q: What do the Americans call what we call a gear lever? A: SHIFT STICK
Q: Belvoir Castle is the home of which dukedom? A: RUTLAND
Q: In 'Dads Army' what did Hodges call Captain Mainwaring? A: NAPOLEON
Q: Londonderry stands on which river? A: FOYLE
Q: Who, dying aged 61, in 2007, was the youngest member of the 1966 World Cup Squad? A: ALAN BALL
Q: Which chemical element is named after the old name for Copenhagen? A: HAFNIUM
Q: According to the rhyme, what is a 'swarm of bees in June' worth? A: A SILVER SPOON
Q: What do the Americans call what we call a coffin? A: A CASKET
Q: Where was the armistice which halted the Korean War signed in 1953? A: PANMUNJON
Q: Which current Premier League football club are the only club to have won all four top divisions and both major cups in English football? A: WOLVERHAMPTON WANDERERS
Q: What festival is celebrated with bread baked from the first grains of wheat harvested? A: LAMMAS
Q: In 'Last of the Summer Wine' what character did Brian Wilde play? A: FOGGY
Q: Founded in 1999 by BBC4 TV, for what is the Samuel Johnson Prize awarded? A: NON-FICTION
Q: Who did Brendan Barber succeed as General Secretary of the TUC? A: JOHN MONKS
Q: Opened in 1914, what is Edinburgh's main concert hall? A: Usher Hall
Q: A 'Loiner' comes from which city? A: Leeds
Q: Which artist (1518-1594), born Jacopo Comin, also known as Jacopo Robusti, is known by a nickname taken from his father's occupation as a dyer? A: TINTORETTO
Q: Stoke City FC now play their home games at the Britannia Stadium. What was the name of their previous stadium? A: VICTORIA GROUND
Q: Who presents the TV series 'Extreme Fishing'? A: ROBSON GREEN
Q: Who is the Chief of Police in Puccini's opera 'Tosca'? A: BARON SCARPIA
Q: Who is the wife of King Cepheus, found opposite to him in the night sky? A: CASSIOPEIA
Q: The states of Yap, Chuuk, Pohnpei and Kosrae in the Western Pacific are collectively known as the Federated States of ................. where? A: MICRONESIA
Q: For a constituency in which town is Ed Miliband an MP? A: DONCASTER
Q: What decoration, a Cross, was instituted on 1st July 2009 to commemorate UK armed forces personnel who have died on operations or as a result of an act of terrorism? A: ELIZABETH
Q: Which woman has won the most Oscars? A: EDITH HEAD
Q: Derived from the Etruscan calendar and persisting for around 500 years, into how many days was the Roman week divided prior to the adoption of the Julian calendar? A: EIGHT
Q: 'E20' is an internet spinoff from which soap opera? A: EASTENDERS
Q: Which 1926 record by Charles Penrose became a cult classic on BBC 'Children's Favourites' from the 1950s to the 1970s? A: THE LAUGHING POLICEMAN
Q: Which poet wrote the line 'T'is better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all'? A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: What nationality is Petra Kvitova the 2011 Ladies Singles winner at Wimbledon? A: CZECH
Q: Which US state capital is only accessible by sea and air? A: JUNEAU
Q: Who in 1912, after not being invited to perform in the first Royal Command Performance, staged a rival show advertised 'by command of the British public'? A: MARIE LLOYD
Q: In the Hellenistic system the weekdays were named after the 7 classical planets (Saturn, Sun, Moon, Mars etc), which planet is commemorated by the day we call Friday? A: VENUS
Q: Which song, recorded by Mandy Miller, a regular request on 'Children's Favourites', begins 'To Bombay a travelling circus came'? A: NELLIE THE ELEPHANT
Q: What is the American equivalent to Britain's Dartmouth Naval College? A: ANNAPOLIS
Q: Which poet wrote the line 'Beauty is truth, truth beauty - that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know'? A: JOHN KEATS
Q: Which member of the Cabinet has been the MP for Maidenhead since 1997? A: THERESA MAY
Q: On which racecourse is the King George VI Chase run? A: KEMPTON
Q: How are the states of Ajman, al-Fujairah, Ras-al Khaimah, Sharjah, Umm al-Quwain and two others collectively known? A: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Q: Who together with Nicholas Crane has been the main presenter of 'Coast'? A: NEIL OLIVER
Q: Who is the only person to have won an Oscar for acting and screen writing? A: EMMA THOMPSON
Q: What is the real first name of the singer Lulu? A: MARIE
Q: Which religious faith was founded in the 19th century, in what is now Iran and has its headquarters in Haifa(Israel)? A: BAHA'I
Q: Who is the author of the 'Shopaholic' series of 'Chick Lit' books? A: SOPHIE KINSELLA
Q: Swansea City FC now play their home games at the Liberty Stadium. What was the name of their previous stadium? A: VETCH FIELD
Q: What sort of Tuesday did the Rolling Stones sing about in their 1967 hit? A: RUBY
Q: Which is the penultimate letter of the Greek alphabet? A: PSI
Q: What is the name of Gilbert and Sullivan's Modern Major General? A: STANLEY
Q: Ownership of which worldwide publishing concern gave Conrad Black control of the Daily Telegraph? A: HOLLINGER INTERNATION
Q: Which is the highest number used in a Sudoku puzzle? A: Nine
Q: Who won the Best Actor Oscar in both 1993 and 1994? A: Tom Hanks
Q: Which group was Jimmy Page in immediately before forming Led Zeppelin? A: The Yardbirds
Q: "In ""The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe"", what was the name of the castle housing the four thrones and from where the kings/queens of Narnia rule?" A: Cair Paravel
Q: Who created the fictional TV Detective Inspector Frost? A: R. D. Wingfield
Q: Who followed Henry Campbell Bannerman as Prime Minister in 1908? A: H. H. Asquith
Q: Who fought Muhammed All in the 'Rumble in the Jungle' in 1974? A: George Foreman
Q: Which alcoholic drink is added to brandy to make a Sidecar cocktail? A: Cointreau
Q: Which company's red triangle trademark was the first to registered in England (in 1876)? A: Bass
Q: Which fashion designer opened a boutique with Malcolm McClaren, and was at the forefront of 'punk' fashion in 1971? A: Vivienne Westwood
Q: What is the name of the village in which Mrs. Goggins is the postmistress? A: Greendale
Q: George Cornell was shot by Ronnie Kray in which East End pub in 1966? A: The Blind Beggar
Q: What was the name of Lester Piggott's first Derby winner in 1954? A: Never Say Die
Q: "Which religious group publishes a magazine called ""The Watchtower""?" A: Jehovah's Witnesses
Q: In the Harry Potter series, what is the name of the soul sucking guards from Azkaban? A: Dementors
Q: What is the former British Crown colony of the Gold Coast now called? A: Ghana
Q: "Whose first number one album in the UK was ""Every Picture Tells a Story"" in 1971?" A: Rod Stewart
Q: Who was Jimmy Carter's Vice-President from 1977-1981? A: Walter Mondale
Q: Which bird has the Latin name Erithacus Rubecula? A: Robin
Q: Which saint, also known as Thaddeus, is the patron saint of lost causes? A: St. Jude
Q: Who was guest drummer for Led Zeppelin at the Live Aid concert in 1985? A: Phil Collins
Q: "In ""The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe"", how is Jadis better known?" A: The White Witch
Q: Which TV detective series is based on books by Caroline Graham? A: Midsomer Murders
Q: Who followed Lloyd George as Prime Minister in 1922? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: "Who wrote the 1989 Booker Prize winning novel ""The Remains of the Day""?" A: Kazuo Ishiguro
Q: Which boxer, born 3rd May 1934, grew up on the Bellingham Estate in south east London? A: Henry Cooper
Q: What specifically is the alcoholic ingredient of the drink Cuba Libre? A: White Rum
Q: Chequers, the Prime Minister's country residence, is in which English county? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: In which Gilbert and Sullivan opera do fairies take over Parliament? A: Iolanthe
Q: Which fashion designer, born 1940 in Chatham, Kent, is well known for her pink hair? A: Zandra Rhodes
Q: In which early 90's TV series did scientists Dr. Sam Beckett and Admiral Al Calavicci appear? A: Quantum Leap
Q: Traditionally, what kind of meat is used in the dish Osso Bucco? A: Veal
Q: Which English county did Ian Botham join after leaving Somerset in 1987? A: Worcestershire
Q: Which daily newspaper was founded in 1909, but closed in 1971 when it merged with the Daily Mail? A: Daily Sketch
Q: What was the name of the first horse to win the Derby in 1780? A: Diomed
Q: "Which religious organisation's newspaper is called ""The War Cry""?" A: Salvation Army
Q: In the Harry Potter stories, what is Hagrid's first name? A: Rubeus
Q: In which 1949 movie did James Cagney say the lines 'Made it Ma - Top of the world', before being killed? A: White Heat
Q: Which country used to be called South West Africa? A: Namibia
Q: "Whose first number album in the UK was ""Dead Ringer' in 1981?" A: Meatloaf
Q: Who succeeded Richard Nixon as President of the USA in 1974? A: Gerald Ford
Q: In addition to the emu, which other flightless bird is native to Australia? A: Cassowary
Q: Who played a character called Rachel Marron in a famous 1992 film? A: Whitney Houston
Q: What type of food is Cullen Skink? A: (Fish) Soup
Q: In which county is Camberwick Green? A: Trumptonshire
Q: In fiction, who became Mayor of Casterbridge? A: Michael Henchard
Q: Cusco (Cuzco) was the historical capital of which Empire? A: Inca
Q: In which country did the Carnation Revolution take place in 1974? A: Portugal
Q: Which MP represents the constituency of Doncaster North? A: Ed Miliband
Q: How many yards are there in a rod? A: 5.5
Q: "What sort of drink is ""matcha""?" A: (Japanese Green) Tea
Q: Which recent US President's dog was called Buddy? A: Bill Clinton
Q: "Which Russian woman defected in the 1960's, and wrote a memoir entitled ""Twenty Letters to a Friend""?" A: Svetlana Stalin
Q: What is the name of the soft boot, usually sealskin, worn by the Inuit and Yupik? A: Mukluks
Q: What is Jordan's only seaport? A: Aqaba
Q: Which punctuation mark, used in computing, etc., is called the 'solidus'? A: Forward slash
Q: Matthew Flinders led the first circumnavigation of which land mass? A: Australia
Q: Prior to Howard Webb in 2010, who was the last Englishman to referee a World Cup Final? A: Jack Taylor
Q: What period of time did Eire describe as 'the emergency'? A: World War Two
Q: Sal volatile (spirit of hartshorn) is a solution commonly known as what? A: Smelling salts
Q: Windhoek is the capital of which African republic? A: Namibia
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1980 remake of 'The Jazz Singer""?" A: Neil Diamond
Q: What did Henry Cavendish describe as 'inflammable air'? A: Hydrogen
Q: In what language is BBC Alba broadcast? A: Scottish Gaelic
Q: What food is known as an 'alligator pear'? A: Avocado
Q: Whose execution was recorded as 'a cruel necessity'? A: Charles 1st
Q: Which group of people were emancipated in 1861? A: Russian serfs
Q: Similar to shepherd's pie, Bobotie is a national dish of which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which Greek mythological giant had 100 eyes? A: Argus
Q: Where was the painter, illustrator, etc, Marc Chagall born in 1887? A: Russia
Q: A 'gnomon' is a pointer on which device? A: Sundial
Q: "Under which tree did the swagman camp in the song ""Waltzing Matilda""?" A: Coolibah tree
Q: What instrument was played by jazz musician (Edward) Kid Ory? A: Trombone
Q: The new Boeing 787 jet is also known as what? A: Dreamliner
Q: Which animals have 42 teeth in adulthood? A: Dogs
Q: Which eponymous teacher taught at Brookfield Boarding School? A: Mr. Chips
Q: The Battle of Palmito Ranch (Hill) was the last major clash of which 19th century war? A: American Civil War
Q: Singer Rihanna, and cricketer Sir Garfield Sobers are from which island? A: Barbados
Q: Which species of bird has Andean and Californian varieties? A: Condor
Q: """Gates of Hell"" and ""The Burghers of Calais"" are by which sculptor?" A: (Auguste) Rodin
Q: Julia Gillard, elected Australian PM in 2010, was born in which country? A: Wales
Q: The original 'Old Guard' were part of whose army? A: Napoleon Bonaparte
Q: The Straits Times Index is the stock market of which Asian republic? A: Singapore
Q: Which novel is set on one day - 16th June 1904? A: Ulysses
Q: The girls' name Vanessa was invented by which 18th century Anglo-Irish writer? A: Jonathan Swift
Q: Which alcoholic spirit is made from the blue agave plant? A: Tequila
Q: Which city is at the confluence of the St. Lawrence and Ottawa rivers? A: Montreal
Q: Dili is the capital of which state that became independent on 20 May 2002? A: East Timor
Q: What are female ferrets and polecats called? A: Jill
Q: What name, also given to the spacecraft used, was given to the American space program that ran from 1959 to 1963, with the aim of putting a man in earth orbit? A: Mercury
Q: What is the state capital of Kansas? A: Topeka
Q: In which English county are the National Space Centre and the Foxton canal locks? A: Leicestershire
Q: What is the name of Atticus Finch's daughter, the narrator of To Kill a Mockingbird? A: Scout
Q: What is the main unit of currency of Vietnam? A: Dong
Q: What is the state capital of Wyoming? A: Cheyenne
Q: Who wrote the plays Plaza Suite and The Odd Couple? A: (Neil) Simon
Q: What is the main currency unit of Afghanistan? A: Afghani
Q: Which cooking utensil is called a skillet in America? A: Frying Pan
Q: What was the name of the 1990s TV series starring Rik Mayall and Adrian Edmondson as flatmates Eddie and Richie? A: Bottom
Q: Which author was born in Higher Brockhampton, near Dorchester, in 1840? A: (Thomas) Hardy
Q: Asmara is the capital of which state that became independent on 24 May 1993? A: Eritrea
Q: Which American playwright wrote The Iceman Cometh and Long Day's Journey Into Night? A: (Eugene) O'Neill
Q: Which author was born in 1812 in Landport, which is now part of Portsmouth? A: (Charles) Dickens
Q: What name is given to a female rat? A: Doe
Q: In the TV programme '24', what is the name of the character played by Kiefer Sutherland? A: Jack Bauer
Q: Who won the 1968 US presidential election? A: (Richard) Nixon
Q: Occurring on 21 July 1861, on what was the first major land battle of the American Civil War? A: First Bull Run
Q: In the book and film The Railway Children, who was the sister of Peter and Phyllis? A: Bobbie
Q: What is the title of Private Eye's regular page of political news? A: HP Sauce
Q: In which of his books does George Orwell recount his experiences in the Spanish Civil War? A: Homage to Catalonia
Q: In which Virginia town, in April 1865, did Robert E Lee sign the Confederate surrender at the end of the American Civil War? A: Appomattox
Q: Alan Hansen joined Liverpool from which club in 1977? A: Partick Thistle
Q: Which actor/director's production company is called Malpaso Productions? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Which Tottenham Hotspur manager signed Ossie Ardiles? A: Keith Burkinshaw
Q: Which famous American film star had the middle name DeForest? A: Humphrey Bogart
Q: What was the name of the month in the French Revolutionary Calendar which corresponded to parts of July and August? The same word describes a lobster dish. A: Thermidor
Q: Which river forms most of the border between Laos and Thailand? A: Mekong
Q: Ian Curtis, who committed suicide in May 1980, was the vocalist with which group? A: Joy Division
Q: John Wayne won his only Oscar for his role in which film? A: True Grit
Q: Eddie Reader had a Number 1 hit in April 1988 with which group? A: Fairground Attraction
Q: Which famous author spent 5 years in the 1920's as a police officer in Burma? A: George Orwell
Q: Which directing partnership remade the film True Grit in 2010? A: The Coen Brothers
Q: Which Israeli leader won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1978? A: Menachem Begin
Q: What was the name of the month in the French Revolutionary Calendar which corresponded to parts of March and April, and has the same name as a 1993 film starring Gerard Depardieu based on a Zola novel? A: Germinal
Q: Which river forms the border between Zimbabwe, South Africa and Botswana? A: Limpopo
Q: The subject of a 1970 Ken Russell film, which Russian composer's first symphony was nicknamed Winter Daydreams? A: Tchaikovsky
Q: What did the poet Homer frequently describe as 'wine-dark'? A: The Sea
Q: In Warner Brothers Looney Tunes cartoons, what was the name of the amorous French skunk? A: Pepe Le Pew
Q: Which regular feature in Private Eye covers pretentious or pompous statements from the arts, academia and business? A: Pseuds Corner
Q: What nationality was the philosopher Soren Kierkegaard? A: Danish
Q: "Which poem by Keats opens with the words ""O what can all thee, knight-at-arms, alone and palely loitering""?" A: La Belle Dame Sans Merci
Q: Which band did Mick Jones form on leaving the Clash? A: Big Audio Dynamite
Q: Which English character actor played Mr Salt in the 1971 film 'Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory'? A: Roy Kinnear
Q: What was the name of Jodie Foster's character in the film 'Bugsy Malone'? A: Tallulah
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Cold Comfort Farm' in 1932? A: Stella Gibbons
Q: In which year was the Battle of the Little Big Horn? A: 1876
Q: In which English county was Charles Darwin born? A: Shropshire
Q: Who played the Skipper in the 1960s US TV sitcom 'Gilligan's Island'? A: Alan Hale
Q: Which Liberal Democrat MP was appointed Chief Secretary to the Treasury in David Cameron's Cabinet in May 2010, only to resign the same month over an expenses claim? A: David Laws
Q: The steel pan (or drum) is the national instrument of which island nation, where it was invented? A: Trinidad and Tobago
Q: Which of the halogens has the lowest atomic number (9)? A: Fluorine
Q: Which Shakespeare play is set in Sicilia and Bohemia? A: The Winter's Tale
Q: Which historic region of France, roughly corresponding to the Dordogne, gives its name to black truffles? A: Perigord
Q: Created by Sega in the 1990's, what type of creature is the video game character Sonic? A: Hedgehog
Q: For what does the C stand in the acronym UNESCO? A: Cultural
Q: Who was the French composer of the ballet Daphne et Chloe? A: (Maurice) Ravel
Q: On which London thoroughfare is the Cenotaph situated? A: Whitehall
Q: What name is given in English to a figure of speech in which apparently contradictory terms appear in conjunction, eg deeply superficial? A: Oxymoron
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when the American Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776? A: Lord North
Q: In Australian Rules football, how many points are awarded for a field goal? A: Six
Q: Who was the Queen consort of King Charles the Second of England? A: Catherine of Braganza
Q: Which car marque produces the 'Insignia' model? A: Vauxhall
Q: Which nocturnal animal has the Latin name `meles meles'? A: (European) Badger
Q: On which river does the Grand Coulee Dam stand? A: Columbia
Q: For what does the G stand in P. G. Wodehouse? A: Grenville
Q: "Which character of ""The Archers"" died in a fire on the day that ITV began broadcasting in 1955?" A: Grace Archer
Q: In which country was architect Frank Gehry born? A: Canada
Q: "It was announced in 2010 that which American crime author was to write a new ""James Bond"" novel?" A: Jeffery Deaver
Q: Who was appointed Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport in David Cameron's Cabinet in 2010? A: Jeremy Hunt
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of accountants etc? A: St. Matthew
Q: Developed from the instruments brought by Portuguese soldiers, with which island group is the ukulele particularly associated? A: Hawaii
Q: Four US states border Lake Michigan - Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin are three. Which is the fourth? A: Indiana
Q: Which of the noble gases has the highest atomic number (86)? A: Radon
Q: In which Shakespeare play does most of the action place in the Forest of Arden? A: As You Like It
Q: Which common British garden bird has the Latin name cyanistes caeruleus or parus caeruleus'? A: Blue Tit
Q: Which northern region of Italy is particularly associated with white truffles? A: Piedmont
Q: Who is the Bishop of London, in office since 1995? A: Richard Chartres
Q: Created by Nintendo in the 1980's, what is the profession of the video game character (Super) Mario? A: Plumber
Q: Of what is ergophobia the fear? A: Work
Q: For what does the R stand in the acronym UNHCR? A: Refugees
Q: How is the building 30 St. Mary Axe better known? A: The Gherkin
Q: Which American TV drama centres around the offices of Sterling Cooper Advertising Agency? A: Mad Men
Q: According to Homer, who was Queen of Troy and mother of Paris and Hector? A: Hecuba
Q: In American football, how many points are awarded for a field goal? A: Three
Q: Besides cookery, on which other topic has Delia Smith written books? A: Religion
Q: Who was the Queen consort of King George the Fourth of England? A: Caroline of Brunswick
Q: Which car marque produces the Tiguan model? A: Volkswagen
Q: The Suez Canal has its southern terminus at Port Tawfik, Suez. Where is its northern terminus? A: Port Said
Q: For what does the G stand in G. K. Chesterton? A: Gilbert
Q: What was the code name given to the Dam Busters raids of May 1943? A: (Operation) Chastise
Q: "Which character of ""The Archers"" died in a fall from the roof of Lower Loxley Hall in 2011, as the soap celebrated its 60th anniversary?" A: Nigel Pargetter
Q: In which country was the architect Richard Rogers born? A: Italy
Q: "It was announced early in 2011 that which British author and screen writer will write a new ""Sherlock Holmes"" novel?" A: Anthony Horowitz
Q: According to Muslim tradition, who revealed the Qur'an to Mohammed? A: The Angel Gabriel
Q: Who is the British designer responsible for the design of many iconic Apple products? A: Jonathan Ive
Q: "Who plays speech therapist Lionel Logue in the hit British film ""The King's Speech""?" A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: Who was the last reigning British monarch to marry? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Specifically, on which island is the Franz Josef Glacier? A: SOUTH ISLAND, NEW ZEALAND
Q: Who is Pip's secret benefactor in 'Great Expectations'? A: MAGWITCH
Q: In pre-decimal currency, what was depicted on the back of a farthing from 1936 until it was withdrawn in 1960? A: A WREN
Q: Which theory states that 'people tend to rise to their own level of incompetence'? A: PETER PRINCIPLE
Q: What type of bird is a maribou? A: A STORK
Q: In May 2011 who became Chairman of the BBC Trust? A: CHRIS PATTEN
Q: Cosette, Marius and Fantine are characters in which book and musical? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: What is the name of the dog in Enid Blyton's 'Famous Five' books? A: TIMMY
Q: Name the son of Marcus Aurelius who succeeded him as Roman Emperor from 180-192 AD. A: COMMODUS
Q: Who painted 'And When Did You Last See Your Father' in 1878? A: William Frederick YEAMES
Q: Who wrote 'Capriccio Italien' in 1880? A: TCHAIKOWSKY
Q: After whose father was Prince Edward Island named? A: QUEEN VICTORIA
Q: Who painted The Boyhood of Raleigh' in 1870? A: John Everett MILLAIS
Q: Which Dickens novel has a first chapter called 'I am born'? A: DAVID COPPERFIELD
Q: What is the name of the track cycling event, originating in Japan, in which the racers sprint for victory after having been paced for several laps? A: KEIRIN
Q: What are known as The Devil's Picture Book'? A: PLAYING CARDS
Q: On a staircase, what is the vertical part of the step called? A: RISER
Q: Name the Cup presented to the winner of the Men's Singles at the French Open Tennis Competition. A: COUPE des MOUSQUETAIRES
Q: Whose Symphony No. 1 in D Major is sometimes known as The Titan'? A: Gustav MAHLER
Q: Which word means a fortified palace in Spain? A: ALCAZAR
Q: By winning the 2009 PGA Championship who became the first Asian to win a major golf tournament? A: Y.E. YANG
Q: Who wrote the music for 'Billy Elliot'? A: ELTON JOHN
Q: Who was the first President of Tanzania? (1961-1985) A: JULIUS NYERERE
Q: The Turing Test assesses what? A: ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Q: What type of animal is a sifaka? A: LEMUR
Q: In 'Bob the Builder' what is the name of the cat? A: PILCHARD
Q: Who flew the first plane to break the sound barrier? A: CHARLES 'CHUCK' YEAGER
Q: What is the name of the new group, founded in 2010 by Liam Gallagher and other members of Oasis? A: BEADY EYE
Q: In medicine, how was a tincture of opium known? A: LAUDANUM
Q: Who benefits from the royalties from 'Peter Pan'? A: GREAT ORMOND STREET CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL
Q: In architecture, what name is given to a supporting figure in the form of a draped female figure? A: CARYATID
Q: Michael Schumacher had his first F1 win in 1992, for which team was he driving? A: BENETTON
Q: The 2002 film The Road to Perdition' was the last film appearance of which actor? A: PAUL NEWMAN
Q: The horseshoe shaped fault in the Pacific which contains many volcanoes is known by which name, which is also the title of a 1963 US no.1 hit record? A: THE RING OF FIRE
Q: In 1970, who had a UK no.1 hit with An the Summertime'? A: MUNGO JERRY
Q: Simoon, haboob and tramontane are types of what? A: WINDS
Q: Who is the architect of the new Turner Margate Gallery? A: DAVID CHIPPERFIELD
Q: What was the name of the human powered aircraft which crossed the Channel in 1979? A: GOSSAMER ALBATROSS
Q: In 1978, who created the poster 'Labour isn't working'? A: SAATCHI & SAATCHI
Q: Who wrote the TV series 'The Wire'? A: DAVID SIMON
Q: Guitarist David Evans uses which stage name? A: THE EDGE
Q: John Fogerty was lead singer for which group from 1967 until 1972 when the group disbanded? A: CREEDENCE CLEARWATER REVIVAL
Q: Who launched The Big Issue' in 1991 to help the homeless? A: JOHN BIRD
Q: The film '1984' was the last screen appearance of which actor? A: RICHARD BURTON
Q: What is the highest mountain on the island of Crete? A: Mount IDA
Q: What is the principal constituent of the cell wall in soft plant tissue? A: CELLULOSE
Q: Which highly toxic substance is obtained from the castor oil plant? A: RICIN
Q: Which horse, at 100-1, won the 2009 Grand National? A: MON MOME
Q: Which airline bought both BMI and Alitalia in 2008? A: LUFTHANSA
Q: The Latitude Festival of music, theatre and comedy is held annually in which county? A: SUFFOLK
Q: Who owns the world's largest private yacht 'Eclipse' and three other yachts `Pelorus', Ecstasea' and `Sussurro'? A: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH
Q: Of which US State was Sarah Palin the Governor? A: ALASKA
Q: A joey is the young of which animal? A: KANGAROO
Q: On which island are the Tamil Tigers found? A: SRI LANKA
Q: Who wrote the story the Tailor of Gloucester? A: BEATRIX POTTER
Q: St Dunstan's is an organisation that deals with which disability? A: BLINDNESS
Q: For which country was Emanuel Adebayor playing football when they withdrew from the African Cup of Nations in 2010? A: TOGO
Q: The rivers Gowy, Goyt and Bollin are tributaries of which larger river? A: RIVER MERSEY
Q: Which MP was made the Minister for Drought in 1976 and then it rained three days later? A: DENIS HOWELL
Q: In which Australian city is the WACA Cricket Ground found? A: PERTH
Q: Which condiments Latin name means' sour wine'? A: VINEGAR
Q: What was the apt name of the largest armoured vehicle that the Germans had in World War II? A: ELEFANT
Q: Who was the adversary of Fu Manchu? A: NAYLAND SMITH
Q: What was first created in 1890 and then credited to Arthur Wynne in 1913 and is now seen everywhere? A: CROSSWORD PUZZLE
Q: Which US TV comedy is set in the Sacred Heart Hospital? A: SCRUBS
Q: Which super hero is the alter ego of Tony Stark? A: IRON MAN
Q: Warner Oland, Sydney Toler and Roland Winters have all played which fictional detective? A: CHARLIE CHAN
Q: Lynne Frederick was the last wife of which comic actor? A: PETER SELLERS
Q: "Which of her lovers was described by Joan Collins as ""not having much up top but plenty down below""?" A: BILL WIGGINS
Q: In which country is Simpatico beer brewed? A: MEXICO
Q: "Whose 2010 biography was called ""Elephant to Hollywood""?" A: MICHAEL CAINE
Q: During the 2010 Rugby League World Cup Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand played but which other nation were the fourth team? A: PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Q: The Manic Street Preachers come from which country? A: WALES
Q: In which country are Bugatti cars built? A: FRANCE
Q: What is Manchester United and Wales footballer Ryan Giggs original surname? A: WILSON
Q: Kings Lynn and Great Yarmouth were once members of which larger trading organisation? A: THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE
Q: Which Oscar winning film was based on the life of killer Aileen Wuornos? A: MONSTER
Q: Which mythical creature had the head and body of a lion and eagles wings? A: GRIFFIN
Q: Which World War II aircraft was designed in 1937 by Sydney Camm? A: HAWKER HURRICANE
Q: Which restaurant chain was founded in 1998 by Simon Woodroffe? A: YO SUSHI
Q: Singer Crispian Mills is the son of which famous actress? A: HAYLEY MILLS
Q: What was Taiwan formerly known as? A: FORMOSA
Q: Who directed the film Bonnie and Clyde? A: ARTHUR PENN
Q: Which comic and actor was seen and heard in the adverts for Money Supermarket? A: OMID DJALILI
Q: What was played at Wembley Stadium for the first time on 14th April 1991? A: FA CUP SEMI FINAL
Q: What nickname was given to former bank chief Sir Fred Godwin? A: FRED THE SHRED
Q: In which film is Cary Grant seen running into a field being pursued by a biplane? A: NORTH BY NORTH WEST
Q: In which country is the Ascari Sports Car built? A: ENGLAND
Q: Which male American film star is the father of children called Willow and Jaden? A: WILL SMITH
Q: During the American Civil War as what were the battleships Monitor and Merrimac classed ? A: IRONCLADS
Q: During which War did the Battle of Corunna take place? A: THE PENINSULAR WAR
Q: In the film Cool Running which comic actor played the coach of the Jamaican Bobsleigh Team? A: JOHN CANDY
Q: Who preceded Willie Bain as MP for Glasgow North East? A: Michael Martin
Q: Lisa Dobriskey is a world silver medallist in which athletics event? A: 1500m
Q: In which modern English county did the Trinovantes live? A: Essex
Q: Which predominantly American grape variety is genetically identical to the southern Italian grape Primitivo? A: Zinfandel
Q: Who cut off the tails of the Three Blind Mice? A: The Farmer's Wife
Q: What kind of bird appears on the flag of Papua New Guinea? A: Bird of Paradise
Q: The Gracie Fields Theatre opened in which town in 1978? A: Rochdale
Q: What kind of creature is a Bonobo? A: Ape
Q: Which science fiction author invented the 3 Laws of Robotics? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: Who wrote the 1955 novel 'The Ginger Man'? A: J P Donleavy
Q: What was the former name of Suriname in South America? A: Dutch Guiana
Q: What kind of creature is a White Leghorn? A: Chicken
Q: In Greek Mythology what was the name of the prophetess daughter of Priam whose predictions were never believed? A: Cassandra
Q: Which is the third oldest UK University? A: St Andrews
Q: Who in 1979 published a collection of short stories called 'Tales of the Unexpected'? A: Roald Dahl
Q: Who became chief women's wear designer at Christian Dior in October 1996? A: John Galliano
Q: In Holst's Planets Suite which was the bringer of old age? A: Saturn
Q: Which fictional schoolboy is the eponymous subject of books by Francesca Simon? A: Horrid Henry
Q: Which computer company was set up in 1968 by Alan Sugar? A: Amstrad
Q: In which National Park is the geyser Old Faithful? A: Yellowstone
Q: What name was given to Mustapha Kemal after he became Dictator of Turkey in 1935? A: Ataturk
Q: Crusaders Rugby League Club are based in which town? A: Wrexham
Q: Who married Samantha Gwendoline Sheffield in 1996? A: David Cameron
Q: Matthew Syed was a British champion in which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: What geological period, named after European mountains, was from 200-145 million years ago? A: Jurassic
Q: Which modern English county did the Iceni inhabit? A: Norfolk
Q: Which is the main red grape of Chianti wine? A: Sangiovese
Q: What kind of bird appears on the flag of Uganda? A: (Crowned) Crane
Q: Santorini is part of which country? A: Greece
Q: Who was British Prime Minister from 1922-23, shortly before he died? A: Bonar Law
Q: What kind of creature is a kakapo? A: Parrot
Q: Which company devised a walking robot called Asimo? A: Honda
Q: In which opera does the character Lieutenant Pinkerton appear? A: Madama Butterfly
Q: What t yoe of creature is a copperhead? A: Snake
Q: Who-succeeded Claudius as Emperor of Rome in AD 54? A: Nero
Q: In connection the US Constitution what was the effect of the 18th Amendment? A: Prohibition
Q: Which educational establishment did Thomas Arnold describe as 'the godless institution of Gower Street'? A: University College London
Q: What is the name of the Chief Inspector featured in many RuthRendell novels e.g. Road Rage? A: Reg Wexford
Q: From which Shakespeare play do the lines 'Sans teeth, sans taste, sans everything' come? A: As You Like It
Q: Which computer technology corporation is nicknamed 'Big Blue'? A: IBM
Q: In the forecourt of which Los Angeles theatre would you see the hand and footprints of famous film stars? A: Grauman's Chinese Theatre
Q: Carrie Fisher is the daughter of which actress? A: Debbie Reynolds
Q: Which English poet was drowned in a boating accident off Leghorn, Italy in 1822? A: P B Shelley
Q: Nowroz Mangal is the captain of which international cricket team? A: Afghanistan
Q: What is the state capital of California? A: Sacramento
Q: The Rub' Al-Khali Desert is found mostly in which country? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: Who, in Steig Larsson's Millennium trilogy of books, is The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo'? A: Lisbeth Salander
Q: "Who directed the 2005 version of the film ""King Kong""?" A: Peter Jackson
Q: What is the French name for the grape that the Australians call Shiraz? A: Syrah
Q: "Who directed the 2010 film ""127 Hours""?" A: Danny Boyle
Q: "In Dan Brown's ""Angels and Demons"" what is given as Robert Langdon's profession?" A: Symbologist
Q: From which language do we get the word 'yoga'? A: Sanskrit
Q: "Who wrote the epic poem ""The Song of Hiawatha""?" A: Longfellow
Q: Durres is the chief port of which country? A: Albania
Q: In which US state is the largest Kansas City? A: Missouri
Q: Which river flows through Galway City in Ireland? A: Corrib
Q: Which species of deer was introduced to Britain at Woburn in the early 20th century? A: Muntjac
Q: Who was Britain's first female Home Secretary? A: Jacqui Smith
Q: Tegel airport serves which European capital city? A: Berlin
Q: Who is Australia's first female Prime Minister? A: Julia Gillard
Q: Which is Britain's smallest songbird? A: Goldcrest
Q: "Whose autobiography entitled ""The Woman I Was Born To Be"" was published in 2010?" A: Susan Boyle
Q: What is the name of 'Take That's' 2010 album which marked the return to the band of Robbie Williams? A: Progress
Q: The chemical element Potassium's symbol K, comes from which Latin word? A: Kalium
Q: The chemical element Sodium's symbol Na, comes from which Latin word? A: Natrium
Q: "Which artiste had the best-selling single of 2009, with ""Poker Face""?" A: Lady Gaga
Q: The Gulls is the nickname of which English Football League team? A: Torquay United
Q: The Luddite Riots appear in which of Charlotte Bronte's novels? A: Shirley
Q: The Bantams is the nickname of which English Football League team? A: Bradford City
Q: What was the name of the official match ball for the 2010 World Cup? A: Jabulani
Q: Which TV series was filmed in the Irish village of Avoca? A: Ballykissangel
Q: Who described the news of the engagement of Prince William and Kate Middleton as 'wicked'? A: Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall
Q: "Who had an instrumental hit in 1962 with ""Telstar""?" A: The Tornadoes
Q: Which TV series was filmed in the Scottish village of Plockton? A: Hamish Macbeth
Q: At 4132 miles long, which is regarded as the longest river in the world? A: Nile
Q: What name is given to the yellow fluid that surroundsand lubricates cartilages in joints? A: Synovial Fluid
Q: In which organ of the body is the pineal gland? A: The Brain
Q: The Curragh and Punchestown racecourses are in which Irish county? A: Co. Kildare
Q: In the USA, what date is Groundhog Day? A: February 2nd
Q: What is the name of Ed Milliband's second son, born in 2010? A: Samuel
Q: The CEO of which company said in 2010: 'There is no one who wants this over more than I do. I want my life back'? A: BP
Q: The pop group, The Beautiful South' were formed by twomembers of which earlier group? A: The Housemartins
Q: Which Archbishop of Canterbury crowned Queen Elizabeth II? A: Geoffrey Fisher
Q: In the 1960's, whose band was the 'All Stars'? A: Junior Walker
Q: "Who played the part of US marshal Rooster Cogburn in the 2011 film ""True Grit""?" A: Jeff Bridges
Q: In which 1873 novel is the chief character pursued by a Scotland Yard detective, called Inspector Fix? A: Around the World in Eighty Days
Q: Snails, squid, clams, scallops, mussels, etc., all belong to which phylum? A: Molluscs
Q: Shrimps, barnacles, scorpions, spiders, etc., all belong to which phylum? A: Arthropods
Q: What nationality was the only non-Australian, US or Swedish man to win the Wimbledon Singles title in the 1970's? A: Czech
Q: In which US state did the Battle of the Little Bighorn take place in 1876? A: Montana
Q: How high is the top of a badminton net above the centre of the court? A: 5 feet
Q: In which US state did the Battle of Yorktown take place in 1781? A: Virginia
Q: Who was the first Asian UN Secretary General? A: U Thant
Q: Where is the Burj Khalifa to be found? A: Dubai
Q: Who did Thomas More succeed as Lord Chancellor? A: Thomas Wolsey
Q: Name one of the years in which Red Rum won the Aintree Grand National. A: 1973,1974, 1977
Q: Who was crowned by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day 800? A: Charlemagne
Q: Saint Emilion, Pomerol, Medoc and Graves are all sub-regions of which wine growing area? A: Bordeaux
Q: "In 1837 who nicknamed Robespierre ""The Sea-Green Incorruptible""?" A: Thomas Carlyle
Q: In the works of Beatrix Potter, what kind of creature is Jeremy Fisher? A: A Frog
Q: From 1922-1933, with which School of Art was Wassily Kandinsky particularly associated? A: Bauhaus
Q: To within 2 years each way, when did the first Crusade, launched by Urban II take place? A: 1096
Q: Apart from Nottinghamshire and Leicestershire, what is the only other English county allowed to produce Stilton cheese? A: Derbyshire
Q: Which 1966/1973 US TV series featured the characters Jim Phelps, Cinnamon Carter and Rollin Hand? A: Mission Impossible
Q: Who gave JFK a dog called Pushinka in 1961? A: Nikita Krushchev
Q: Which sauce is created with butter, egg yolks, seasoning and lemon juice? A: Hollandaise
Q: In 1981 Sandra Day O'Connor became the first female member of what in the United States? A: The US Supreme Court
Q: Which veteran British singer was born Clive Powell in Leigh, Lancashire in 1943? A: Georgie Fame
Q: The House of Braganza was the last line of monarchs in which European country? A: Portugal
Q: In 1998, who, at the age of 77 became the eldest person ever to go into space? A: John Glenn
Q: Who won the 1978 Booker Prize with the novel The Sea, The Sea'? A: Iris Murdoch
Q: Which South-East Asian country has nine state royal families, each of whose head takes it in turn to be King? A: Malaysia
Q: Which is the only Shakespeare play in which an animal's name appears in the title? A: The Taming of the Shrew
Q: The Italian wine-growing area which produces Soave, Bardolino, Valpolicella and Prosecco wines is centred on which Italian city? A: Venice
Q: Who was king of Libya when it obtained independence in 1951? A: Idris
Q: Which plant (Latin name crataegus) is also called the May Tree, since this is the month in which it blooms? A: Hawthorn
Q: Belfast lies at the mouth of which river? A: River Lagan
Q: What is the largest active volcano in Europe? A: Mount Etna
Q: Which Englishman (680-755) is known as The Apostle of Germany? A: Saint Boniface
Q: Originally a symbol of St Peter and now featured on the flag of the Vatican, which emblem is often used as a pub sign in Britain? A: The Cross Keys
Q: What moved to Nine Elms in 1974? A: Covent Garden Market
Q: Which board game for two players originating in China and popular in Japan uses black/white stones on a 19x19 grid. A: Go
Q: Jose and Raul were the Christian names of which Chess player - World Champion from 1921-1927? A: Capablanca
Q: Who was the beautiful girl loved by Eros in Greek mythology? Her name means 'spirit' or 'life' in Greek. A: Psyche
Q: Which British athlete won gold medals in both the 800m and the 1500m at the 2004 Olympics? A: Kelly Holmes
Q: According to legend, on which Mediterranean island did the Cyclops, Polyphemus, live? A: Sicily
Q: Which English painter had a pug called Trump? A: William Hogarth
Q: What was the name of the BP oil drilling rig which exploded in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010? A: Deepwater Horizon
Q: "Which 1874 novel has the subtitle ""A Study of Provincial Life""?" A: Middlemarch
Q: Which astronomer (1473-15.43) formulated the theory which is accepted as having first placed the Sun at the centre of the solar system? A: Copernicus
Q: William Foulke, Sheffield United's goalkeeper at the start of the 20th century, is reputed to be the first player to have what chanted at him? A: """Who ate all the pies?"""
Q: The title character of which TV detective series has not put in an appearance on the show for over 16 years? A: Taggart
Q: Which war was ended by the 1905 Treaty of Portsmouth? A: The Russo-Japanese War
Q: What name is given to the wedge-shaped writing of the Sumerian and Hittite civilisations? A: Cuneiform
Q: Which German mathematician developed the theory of calculus at about the same time as, but independently of, Isaac Newton? A: (Gottfried) Liebnitz
Q: Which instrument features a whammy bar? A: (Electric) Guitar
Q: In literature who was the weaver of Raveloe? A: Silas Marner
Q: 'Tarantula' is which singer's only novel? A: Bob Dylan
Q: In 2009 Andy Murray became the first British man to win what tennis tournament since Bunny Austin in 1938? A: QUEENS
Q: Who wrote the best-selling book The Lost Symbol? A: DAN BROWN
Q: What do cruciverbalists like doing? A: CROSSWORDS
Q: Who played the title character in the 2010 film Harry Brown? A: MICHAEL CAINE
Q: The 1971 Grammy award winning album Tapestry was recorded by which singer/songwriter? A: CAROLE KING
Q: "At the 2011 Oscars the song ""We Belong Together"" won the Oscar for best original song, from which film did it came?" A: TOY STORY 3
Q: What was the only number 1 record for Dave Dee, Dozy, Beaky, Mick and Titch? A: LEGEND OF XANADU
Q: Which series of guide books was founded by Tony and Maureen Wheeler in 1973? A: LONELY PLANET
Q: How long a period of time is a trimester? A: 3 MONTHS
Q: Which major US Company started out as a single store in Seattle's historic Pike Place market in 1971? A: STARBUCKS
Q: Barney Gibson made history in April 2011 as the youngest individual to play in English first class cricket, for which county team did he play? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: In which country did the O.A.S. terrorist organisation operate in the late 1950's and early 1960's? A: ALGERIA
Q: Who played Mattie Ross in the 1969 film True Grit? A: KIM DARBY
Q: In which US State is Yuma? A: ARIZONA
Q: Who sponsored the 2011 London Marathon? A: VIRGIN
Q: Who is the only footballer to win the Footballer Writers Award three times? A: THIERY HENRY
Q: In Greek Mythology who was the ill-fated lover of Hero? A: LEANDER
Q: What was the name of the Dragon in the Walt Disney film Pete's Dragon? A: ELIOT
Q: The Order of Merit is limited to how many members? A: 24
Q: What is President Barack Obama's middle name? A: HUSSEIN
Q: Who is the recently appointed Chairman of the BBC? A: LORD PATTEN
Q: Who played the lawyer Tom Hagen in the film the Godfather? A: ROBERT DUVALL
Q: Who wrote the book Beau Geste? A: P C WREN
Q: The Grossglockner is the highest mountain in which country? A: AUSTRIA
Q: "Who was David Cameron addressing when he said ""Calm down dear"" at Prime Minister's Question Time?" A: ANGELA EAGLE
Q: In the film The Great Escape who played the character Ashley Pitt, Dispersal? A: DAVID MCCALLUM
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the line ""and age cannot wither"" her come from?" A: ANTHONY AND CLEOPATRA
Q: Who wrote Tom Brown's Schooldays? A: THOMAS HUGHES
Q: What was the original name of the Hoover Dam? A: BOULDER DAM
Q: What is the name of the stage nusical by Andrew Lloyd Webber that is the sequel to his musical Phantom of the Opera? A: LOVE NEVER DIES
Q: In space flight history what occurred on 16th June 1963? A: FIRST WOMAN IN SPACE
Q: The Royal Marine Barracks, Lympstone, are in which county? A: DEVON
Q: What was the name of the elephant that was removed from a circus and relocated in Longleat in April 2011? A: ANNE
Q: In the nursery rhyme who made the shroud for Cock Robin? A: THE BEETLE
Q: Give a year in the life of the poet and writer John Milton. A: 1608 - 1674
Q: What name is given to a young elephant? A: CALF
Q: What is the stage musical that tells the story of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons? A: JERSEY BOYS
Q: RAF Brize Norton is in which county? A: OXFORDSHIRE
Q: Mohamed Al Fayed erected a statue of whom outside Craven Cottage in 2011? A: MICHAEL JACKSON
Q: Which official is sometimes referred to by the acronym POTUS? A: PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
Q: Who provided the voice for Shrek in the films? A: MIKE MYERS
Q: To which family of instruments does the Hi Hat belong? A: PERCUSSION
Q: In which county is Runnymede? A: SURREY
Q: Who succeeded Tsar Alexander III in 1894? A: Nicholas II
Q: What was the real name of Lewis Carroll? A: Charles Lutwidge Dodgson
Q: Guy Fawkes was born and schooled in which English city? A: York
Q: What is the star sign for the date of the Battle of Trafalgar? A: Libra
Q: What mathematical instrument was invented by William Oughtred in 1622? A: Slide Rule
Q: Paddington Bear lives with which family? A: Browns
Q: There are believed to be over 1,000 languages spoken on which island? A: New Guinea
Q: Flatmates Felix Unger and Oscar Madison are the central characters in which play, film and TV series? A: The Odd Couple
Q: Which large domesticated bird has the Latin name meleagris gallopavo? A: Turkey
Q: Naiad and Proteus are two of the thirteen moons of which planet? A: Neptune
Q: Element 112, Cn, is named after which astronomer? A: Copernicus
Q: What organisation was founded by William Alexander Smith in 1883 in Glasgow? A: Boys Brigade
Q: The scientific suffix -ose indicates the presence of what type of carbohydrate? A: Sugar
Q: What sort of trees belong to the genus 'quercus'? A: Oaks
Q: Which candidate in the Labour leadership election of 2010 is MP for Leigh? A: Andy Burnham
Q: The archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann Is most famous for his excavations of which ancient city? A: Troy
Q: 'Wing finger' is the literal meaning of which extinct reptile? A: Pterodactyl
Q: In World War I, what name was given to the vast system of defences in N E France stretching from Lens to Verdun? A: Hindenburg Line
Q: What is the title of the book (published 1954) which is considered to be a parody of Ballantyne's 'Coral Island'? A: Lord of the Flies
Q: What is the name of the first opera in Wagner's four opera Ring Cycle? A: Das Rheingold
Q: Which mammal has types called Siberian and Bengal? A: Tiger
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in Canada in 1858, the only one born outside the British Isles? A: (Andrew) Bonar Law
Q: "Which baseball star is mentioned in the lyrics of Simon and Garfunkel's hit ""Mrs Robinson""?" A: Joe di Maggio
Q: In which city is New Road County Cricket Ground? A: Worcester
Q: In 1969 which Irish woman became Britain's youngest ever female MP? A: Bernadette Devlin
Q: What was the first Apollo mission to leave Earth orbit and orbit the moon, in 1968? A: Apollo 8
Q: What is Miss Marple's first name? A: Jane
Q: What is the name of Harry Potter's godfather, played on film by Gary Oldman? A: Sirius Black
Q: Which US city is nicknamed 'The Big Orange'? A: Los Angeles
Q: In which wine region is the Hospice de Beaune held annually where wines are auctioned in November? A: Burgundy
Q: In what year did Harold Macmillan introduce Premium Bonds? A: 1956
Q: Which insect-useful commercially-has the Latin name bombyx mori? A: Silkworm
Q: Callisto and Io are moons of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: Element 101, Md, is named after which Russian chemist? A: Mendeleev
Q: What is the capital of the Republic of South Sudan? A: Juba
Q: The scientific suffix -ase indicates the presence of what type of protein? A: Enzyme
Q: Which candidate in the 2010 Labour leadership elections is MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington? A: Diane Abbott
Q: The archaeologist SirArthur Evans is most famous for his excavations concerning which civilisation? A: Minoan
Q: 'Fish lizard' is the literal meaning of which extinct reptile's name? A: Ichthyosaur
Q: Where did Generals Ludendorff and Hindenburg crush the Russian armies in August 1914? A: Tannenberg
Q: Who was the predecessor of Cecil Day Lewis as Poet Laureate? A: John Masefield
Q: Mussorgsky's opera 'Boris Godunov' was based on a play by whom? A: Alexander Pushkin
Q: Which mammal has a name which means 'river horse' in Greek? A: Hippopotamus
Q: In mythology how long was Troy besieged? A: 10 years
Q: 'Hello darkness my old friend' are the first words of which Simon and Garfunkel song? A: The Sound of Silence
Q: In the film Psycho what is the name of the deranged murderer? A: Norman Bates
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Fahrenheit 451' in 1953? A: Ray Bradbury
Q: When 19th-century gangs called 'crimps' kidnapped men to work on board ships, what city was their most frequent destination? A: SHANGHAI
Q: Best known for 'The Gruffalo', who was appointed the new Children's Laureate in June 2011? A: JULIA DONALDSON
Q: Which part of your car contains a 35% solution of sulphuric acid? A: BATTERY
Q: What kind of animal is examining the title character in Henri Rousseau's painting, 'The Sleeping Gypsy'? A: LION
Q: In which movie does Sonny & Cher's song 'I Got You Babe' play on nine separate occasions? A: GROUNDHOG DAY
Q: Which country's Prime Minister lives at 24 Sussex Drive? A: CANADA
Q: The Septuagint, Targum and Vulgate are all translations of what? A: THE BIBLE
Q: What gas are the bubbles in fizzy pop filled with? A: CARBON DIOXIDE
Q: What disease takes its name from the same Greek root as a type of coal, due to the black lesions it produces? A: ANTHRAX
Q: A church in Daresbury has a stained-glass window featuring a rabbit, a dodo and a lizard, because which man was born there in 1832, while his father was the parson? A: LEWIS CARROLL
Q: The Australian species of which bird has nature's largest bill, that can hold over 3 gallons? A: PELICAN
Q: Which painter's-most famous work was inspired'by watching Camembert cheese on a hot day? A: SALVADOR DALI
Q: What singer's backing group was named after the address of keyboardist David Sancious' mother's home in Belmar, New Jersey? A: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN
Q: The Sahara is Africa's largest desert, what is its second largest? A: KALAHARI
Q: Which part of the body does a reflexologist most commonly focus on? A: FEET
Q: For what did the 'O' originally stand in the name of the breakfast cereal, Cheerios? A: OATS
Q: What liquid flows through your lacrimal canaliculi? A: TEARS
Q: The adjective 'vermiform' is used to describe which small bodily organ? A: APPENDIX
Q: Which author's first novel begins; 'The scent and smoke and sweat of a casino are nauseating at three in the morning'? A: IAN FLEMING
Q: Which legendary king was the father of King Arthur? A: UTHER PENDRAGON
Q: What Brooklyn landmark is named after the rabbits that over-ran it in the 17th century? A: CONEY ISLAND
Q: What shoulder condition, related to tennis elbow, was first diagnosed in 2007 and is one of the only words in English to contain a triple-repeated letter? A: WIIITIS
Q: The 'Saladin Tithe' was a tax levied to finance the third of nine what? A: CRUSADES
Q: In Greek myth, who led the quest to find the Chrysomallos? A: JASON
Q: With UK number one hits 'Right Round' and 'Club Can't Handle Me', what is both the stage name and home US state of rapper Tramar Dillard? A: FLO RIDA
Q: 'The Sons of the Desert' is the international fan club of which movie pair? A: LAUREL AND HARDY
Q: Which singer has been known as 'The Red-Headed Stranger' since his 1975 album of that name? A: WILLIE NELSON
Q: The second largest city in Queensland and the pre-1957 name for an African nation share what name? A: GOLD COAST
Q: In the combat sport MMA for what does the first M stand? A: MIXED
Q: What hit 2008 film was based on the 2005 novel 'Q & A' by Vikas Swarup? A: SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE
Q: 'One could change the world in 140 characters' is the motto of Jack Dorsey, the founder of which website? A: TWITTER
Q: 'Nevermore' is the last word of the final eleven stanzas of what famous poem? A: THE RAVEN
Q: Only 69 men have ever held the top rank at sumo wrestling; by what name is that title known? A: YOKOZUNA
Q: Manuel Quezon was a founding father and early president of what nation? A: PHILLIPINES
Q: What is the common name for a Cydia moth larva inside a seed of the Sebastiana shrub? A: (MEXICAN) JUMPING BEAN
Q: What movie star was nominated for acting awards for playing Anna Christie in 1930 and Anna Karenina in 1935? A: GRETA GARBO
Q: Geraldine Brooks' 2005 novel 'March' is narrated by the absentee father of which classic novel? A: LITTLE WOMEN
Q: What country's economy melted down in 2008 following the collapse of banks Glitnir, Landsbanki and Kaupthing? A: ICELAND
Q: Which man's 'second rebellion' was the Rum Rebellion, which deposed him as Governor of New South Wales in 1808? A: WILLIAM BLIGH
Q: Duncan Zowie Jones, director of sci-fi films 'Moon' and 'Source Code', is the son of which musician? A: DAVID BOWIE
Q: What is the world's largest nation that is all in a single time zone? A: CHINA
Q: Which moon of the solar system is named after the Greek god of fear? A: PHOBOS
Q: Musicians Sally and Ben Taylor are the children of James Taylor, and which other singer-songwriter? A: CARLY SIMON
Q: Who is the author of the novel 'Girl with a Pearl Earring'? A: TRACY CHEVALIER
Q: In which country was tennis player Juan Martin del Potro born? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Who was the 20th-21st century composer of the 'Symphony of Sorrowful Songs'? A: HENRYK GORECKI
Q: The Scottish peak Ben More is the highest point on which island? A: MULL
Q: The Roman province of Dacia is now part of which modern day country? A: ROMANIA
Q: Who, in 2010, became the first Green Party member of the House of Commons? A: CAROLINE LUCAS
Q: The TV series `Downton Abbey' was filmed largely at which stately house? A: HIGHCLERE
Q: Common in Australia the wattle is a tree of what genus? A: ACACIA
Q: 'The Night of the Hunter' in 1955 was the only film to be directed by which actor? A: CHARLES LAUGHTON
Q: 'At my Mother's Knee (and other Low Joints)' is the first autobiography by which TV personality? A: PAUL O'GRADY
Q: Saint-Denis is the chief town on which Indian Ocean island? A: REUNION
Q: Galah and Sulphur-crested are species of what kind of bird? A: COCKATOO
Q: What prize was won in 2010 by Liu Xiaobo? A: NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
Q: La Digue and Mahe are islands in which Indian Ocean group? A: SEYCHELLES
Q: Who is the author of the children's book 'The Story of Tracy Beaker'? A: JACQUELINE WILSON
Q: In pop music how is Vincent Furnier better known? A: ALICE COOPER
Q: Who created and wrote the TV series `Downton Abbey'? A: JULIAN FELLOWES
Q: Who is the author of 'The Tales of Beedle the Bard'? A: J K ROWLING
Q: Who has become the first Muslim woman to serve in the Cabinet? A: BARONESS WARSI
Q: Who is the author of the novel 'The Horse Whisperer'? A: NICHOLAS EVANS
Q: O R Tambo airport serves which South African city? A: JOHANNESBURG
Q: Which 2004 Tom Hanks film centres around a stranded traveler from Krakozhia? A: THE TERMINAL
Q: In which decade of the 15th century was the Battle of Towton fought? A: 1460s
Q: The only stadium to host two soccer World Cup Finals is in which city? A: MEXICO CITY
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar at the 2011 awards? A: TOM HOOPER
Q: The French writer Andre Breton initiated which artistic movement in the 1920s, based on Dadaism? A: SURREALISM
Q: The scaup is a species of what kind of bird? A: A DUCK
Q: Buchanan is a major city in which West African country? A: LIBERIA
Q: What was the venue near Newport for the 2010 Ryder Cup? A: CELTIC MANOR
Q: The site of the 1461 Battle of Mortimer's Cross lies in which English county? A: HEREFORDSHIRE
Q: Which car manufacturer makes the MPV model the Roomster? A: SKODA
Q: 'Baby Come Back' was a number one hit in 1968 for which group? A: THE EQUALS
Q: The historic area of Gastown forms part of which Canadian city? A: VANCOUVER
Q: Which car manufacturer makes the Tacuma MPV model? A: CHEVROLET
Q: The Dogon are a race of people resident in which African country? A: MALI
Q: Which 19th-20th century writer's first novel was 'The Napoleon of Notting Hill', published in 1904? A: G K CHESTERTON
Q: Novi Sad is the second largest city in which European country? A: SERBIA
Q: Sarah Philipsz was the winner of which prize in 2010? A: TURNER PRIZE
Q: Who was the captain of the US Ryder Cup team in 2010? A: COREY PAVIN
Q: Compound and recurve are variations of which Olympic event's equipment? A: ARCHERY
Q: Rutite is an ore that produces which mineral? A: TITANIUM
Q: Whose name is missing to make up the 1950s/1960s jazz vocal trio Lambert, Hendricks and ? A: ROSS
Q: Venta Belgarum was the Roman name for which English city? A: WINCHESTER
Q: Thackeray's 'Vanity Fair' was first published in which decade of the 19th century? A: 1840s
Q: The last working gallows were housed in which of London's prisons? A: WANDSWORTH
Q: Cyrenaica is a province of which African country? A: LIBYA
Q: 'Lola' was a hit in 1970 for which pop group? A: THE KINKS
Q: Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov from Manchester University won which Nobel Prize in 2010? A: PHYSICS
Q: Joan, Countess of Salisbury, also known as The Fair Maid of Kent' and the mother of a King of England, was married to whom? A: EDWARD, the BLACK PRINCE
Q: Whose first hit was 'Rock Island Line'? A: LONNIE DONEGAN
Q: Who is the new presenter of BBC's Film 2010? A: CLAUDIA WINKELMAN
Q: Which Shakespearian character was stabbed when hiding behind an arras? A: POLONIUS
Q: Which American president had a son named Kermit? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: Which warship, perfectly preserved in Stockholm, sank on her maiden voyage in 1628? A: VASA
Q: Which Mediterranean island was conquered by Richard 1 in 1191? A: CYPRUS
Q: In darts, which score is called 'bed and breakfast'? A: 26
Q: The French word for 'hook' is the name for which craft? A: CROCHET
Q: Who has created the ITV serial 'Downton Abbey'? A: JULIAN FELLOWES
Q: Who was the first American President not of British descent? A: MARTIN VAN BUREN
Q: Who, dying in 1282, was the last Prince of an independent Wales? A: LLEWELYN
Q: Who had a No. 1 hit single in 1969 with 'Dizzy'? A: TOMMY ROE
Q: What was the nickname of the WW2 aircraft - Fairey Swordfish? A: STRINGBAG
Q: In snooker, whose nickname is 'The Nugget'? A: STEVE DAVIS
Q: What American TV comedy of the 70s was based on Steptoe and Son? A: SANFORD and SON
Q: In 'Hamlet' whose grave is being dug when Yorick's skull is found? A: OPHELIA
Q: Who was the mother of William 2nd and Henry 1st ? A: MATILDA
Q: What is measured on the Stanford-Binet scale? A: INTELLIGENCE
Q: Now aged 90, June Spencer is the last of the original Archers cast. Which character does she play? A: PEGGY ARCHER now WOOLLEY
Q: What do the Americans call what we call at bowler hat? A: DERBY
Q: Who painted 'The Birth of Venus' and 'Primavera'? A: BOTTICELLI
Q: In the 2010 film, Eat, Pray, Love who plays the part of the book's author? A: JULIA ROBERTS
Q: Whose 2010 album, gospel music, is called Praise and Blame? A: TOM JONES
Q: Cara, Estima and Desiree are types of what? A: POTATO
Q: An atom which has become electrically charged by gaining or losing electrons is known as what? A: ION
Q: Which country introduced the 'Cult of the Supreme Being' in 1794, intended to become the state religion? A: FRANCE
Q: Flora Poste and the Starkadder family appear in which novel? (a parody of those by Mary Webb) A: COLD COMFORT FARM
Q: Bert Hardy (1913-1995) was best known for what? A: PHOTOGRAPHY
Q: What is the worlds' largest carnivorous marsupial? A: TASMANIAN DEVIL
Q: Which architect designed Manchester Town Hall? A: Alfred WATERHOUSE
Q: In the world of rock music, how is Paul Hewson better known? A: BONO
Q: The Bible Student Movement founded by Charles Taze Russell in 1872 is now known by which name? A: JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES
Q: What do the Americans call 'mobile phones'? A: CELL PHONES
Q: In 2006 Lord Michael Levy earned himself which nickname? A: LORD CASHPOINT
Q: The state in some insects between the larva and the imago is known as what? A: PUPA
Q: 'Band of Joy' is the latest album (2010) for which artist? A: ROBERT PLANT
Q: The air sacs which make up most of the lungs of mammals are known as what? A: ALVEOLI
Q: Uncia Uncia is the Latin name for which animal? A: SNOW LEOPARD
Q: Which 2010 film is about a 1968 dispute when women machinists went on strike for equal pay? A: MADE IN DAGENHAM
Q: Soft Ball' and 'Hard Crack' are stages in the making of what? A: TOFFEE
Q: What kind of creature is a falabella? A: HORSE
Q: Whose summer residence is the Castelgandalfo? A: THE POPE
Q: What sort of creature is a saiga? A: AN ANTELOPE
Q: Which great river flows though China, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam to the South China Sea? A: MEKONG
Q: Which British composer wrote 'The Midsummer Marriage' and `The Knot Garden'? A: SIR MICHAEL TIPPETT
Q: Which ball game of North American Indian origin is 10 a side for men and 12 a side for women? A: LACROSSE
Q: "Who wrote the semi-biographical book 'Stalin Ate my Homework""?" A: ALEXI SAYLE
Q: To which animal does the adjective ovine refer? A: SHEEP
Q: Which semi-aquatic carnivorous mammals belong to the genus `Lutra'? A: OTTERS
Q: In which war did the Battle of Sedan take place? A: FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR
Q: Which sailing ship, named after the witch in Burns' poem 'Tam O'Shanter', is preserved in dry dock at Greenwich? A: CUTTY SARK
Q: By what name is the medicine consisting of a suspension of magnesium hydroxide in water called? A: MILK OF MAGNESIA
Q: What was the profession of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe? A: ARCHITECT
Q: Which area of the USA is generally accepted to be north of the Ohio River, west of Lake Eyre and east of the Great Plains? A: THE MIDWEST
Q: Which dynasty has ruled the Netherlands since 1815? A: HOUSE OF ORANGE
Q: "Which genus of plants includes ""busy lizzie"" and ""touch-me- not""?" A: IMPATIENS
Q: Which bird is also called the peewit or green plover? A: LAPWING
Q: Who was Hitler's personal secretary who was sentenced to death in absentia at Nuremberg? A: MARTIN BORMANN
Q: Which river passes through Tonbridge, Maidstone, Rochester, Chatham and Gillingham? A: RIVER MEDWAY
Q: Which American actor starred in the films Bullitt, Papillon and The Great Escape? A: STEVE MCQUEEN
Q: From which plant is linseed oil derived? A: FLAX
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the goddess of the moon, sometimes identified as Artemis? A: SELENE
Q: Which Italian form of improvised comic drama was popular in the 16th and 17th centuries? A: COMMEDIA DELL'ARTE
Q: In the celestial hierarchy, what is the highest order of angels? A: SERAPHIM
Q: Which French writer published the collection of fairy tales `Contes de ma mere l'Oye', better known as Mother Goose? A: CHARLES PERRAULT
Q: In which sea can the island group known as the Sporades be found? A: THE AEGEAN
Q: What was the artistic profession of Emily Dickinson? A: POET
Q: "To which genus of plants do ""Sweet William"" and ""Carnations"" belong?" A: DIANTHUS
Q: Which American author wrote the Pulitzer Prize-winner 'A Death in the Family? A: JAMES AGEE
Q: Which of the Gospels records the Sermon on the Mount including the Beatitudes and the Lords' Prayer? A: MATTHEW
Q: Which country did England fight against in the Hundred Years' War? A: FRANCE
Q: Of which African country is Gaberone the capital? A: BOTSWANA
Q: Which British artist painted a portrait of Winston Churchill that was destroyed on the instructions of Lady Churchill? A: GRAHAM SUTHERLAND
Q: "Which Anglo-Saxon Abbot wrote ""Catholic Homilies"" and ""Lives of the Saints""?" A: AELFRIC
Q: What name is given to the southern landmass formed by the splitting of a single world continent over 200 million years ago? A: GONDWANALAND
Q: What is the collective name for a group of magpies? A: TIDING
Q: In which country would you find Chobe National Wildlife Park? A: BOTSWANA
Q: What was the real name of 'The Birdman of Alcatraz'? A: ROBERT STROUD
Q: Polygamy is the state of having more than one wife but what word describes the state of having more than one husband? A: POLYANDRY
Q: What type of creature is an onager? A: A WILD ASS
Q: Which pop group of the 60's and 70's released albums entitled `Days of Future Passed' and 'A Question of Balance'? A: THE MOODY BLUES
Q: What name is given to the Northernmost belt of coniferous forest stretching from Scandinavia to Siberia? A: THE TAIGA
Q: Carlisle stands on which river? A: THE EDEN
Q: Which pop group of the 70's and 80's released albums entitled `Making Movies' and 'Communiqué'? A: DIRE STRAITS
Q: Who was the last British tennis player to win the men's singles at Wimbledon? A: FRED PERRY
Q: Which Noble prize-winning novelist is best known for 'And Quiet Flows the Don? A: MIKHAIL SHOLOKHOV
Q: Which Italian painter is best known for his ceiling fresco of Aurora? A: GUIDO RENI
Q: Which sugar occurs naturally in honey, fruit and green leaves? A: FRUCTOSE
Q: Which English novelist wrote 'The Rachel Papers' and 'Money'? A: MARTIN AMIS
Q: Which South African mammal is also called a suricate? A: MEERKAT
Q: Which US inventor designed the Clermont, one of the earliest steamships? A: ROBERT FULTON
Q: What sort of creature is a gerenuk? A: AN ANTELOPE
Q: Which infectious viral disease of domestic poultry is also called Newcastle disease? A: FOWL PEST
Q: What name is given to the ninth month of the Muslim year? A: RAMADAN
Q: Ellen Douglas is the heroine of which poem by Sir Walter Scott? A: The Lady of the Lake
Q: To which family of birds does the chiff-chaff belong? A: Warbler
Q: Television: Which American police series of the 1960s starred Broderick Crawford? A: Highway Patrol
Q: Who was the first World Heavyweight Boxing Champion to lose and then regain his title? A: Floyd Patterson
Q: Which musical instrument is associated with Arthur Rubinstein? A: Piano
Q: In Italian cuisine-what type of meat is prosciutto? A: Ham
Q: In which American state are the cities of Bethlehem, Allentown and Pittsburgh? A: Pennsylvania
Q: "In a French restaurant, what are ""huitres""?" A: Oysters
Q: What was the name of the dog on the HMV record labels? A: Nipper
Q: Which British singer was the second wife of actor Roger Moore? A: Dorothy Squires
Q: "In the television sitcom ""Hi-de-Hi"", which actor played Ted Bovis?" A: Paul Shane
Q: Who led the unsuccessful uprising against Henry VII in 1497? He was hanged in 1499? A: Perkin Warbeck
Q: Who was the first gymnast to score a perfect ten in modern Olympic competition? A: Nadia Comaneci
Q: Of which American city was Richard Daley the mayor from 1955 to 1976? A: Chicago
Q: Television: in 2011, who returned to present Gardeners World, having previously presented the programme from 2003 to 2008? A: Monty Don
Q: Which treaty of 1929 established the Vatican City as an independent sovereign state? A: Lateran Treaty
Q: In the Christian religion, how many traditional stations of the cross are there? A: Fourteen
Q: Which racecourse stages the Coventry Stakes? A: Ascot
Q: Derived from Latin, what is the name of the pole used to propel and steer a punt? A: Quant
Q: "In 1959, which singer had a No.1 UK hit single with ""What Do You Want""?" A: Adam Faith
Q: On which lake was Sir Donald Campbell killed in 1967 while attempting to break the World water-speed record? A: Coniston Water
Q: In the Bible, who was the sister of Moses and Aaron? A: Miriam
Q: In July 1946, which hotel in Jerusalem was bombed by Jewish terrorists because it was the HQ of the British administration? A: King David Hotel
Q: Who was the first non-American golfer to win the US Masters? A: Gary Player
Q: What gas is produced when water is added to calcium carbide? A: Acetylene
Q: "Which comedian's catchphrase was ""Can you hear me, Mother?""?" A: Sandy Powell
Q: "The phrase ""There's a sucker born every minute"" is generally attributed to which US showman (1810-1891)?" A: P T Barnum
Q: Which musical instrument was associated with Jacqueline du Pre? A: Cello
Q: What type of meat is the main ingredient of traditional Wiener Schnitzel? A: Veal
Q: Which king was on the throne in 1381 when Wat Tyler led the Peasants Revolt? A: Richard II
Q: Which chemical has the formula SO2? A: Sulphur Dioxide
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""The Wreck of the Hesperus"" in 1842?" A: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
Q: Television: which British police series of the 1960s starred Raymond Francis as Chief Superintendent Lockhart? A: No Hiding Place
Q: Who was the only World Heavyweight Boxing Champion to finish his career undefeated when he retired in 1956? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: What was the name of the dog which found the football World Cup, the Jules Rimet Trophy, in 1966? A: Pickles
Q: Which British actress was married to Sir Laurence Olivier at the time of his death? A: Joan Plowright
Q: In which American state are the cities of Dayton, Akron and Cincinnati? A: Ohio
Q: "In a French restaurant, what is ""homard""?" A: Lobster
Q: What are the metal discs on a tambourine called? A: Jingles
Q: In the Spanish Civil War, what name was given to the band of volunteers from 53 nations who fought against Franco between 1936 and 1939? A: International Brigade
Q: In the famous Headingley test match in 1981, which English bowler took 8 wickets for 43 runs against Australia? A: Bob Willis
Q: "In which English cathedral is the ""Five Sisters"" window?" A: York Minster
Q: What name (one word only) is given to the process whereby a substance gasses from a solid state to a gas without going through a liquid stage? A: Sublimation
Q: "Which comedian's catchphrase was ""I won't take me coat off, I'm not stopping""?" A: Ken Platt
Q: "Which Latin phrase3, meaning ""under judgement"", refers to a court case which is still under consideration?" A: Sub Judice
Q: Which treaty of 1713 ended the War of Spanish Succession and ceded Gibraltar to Britain? A: Treaty of Utrecht
Q: In the Muslim religion, how many times a day does the muezzin call the faithful to prayer? A: Five
Q: "Who broke the World land-speed record in 1939 at Bonneville Flats in his ""Railton Special""?" A: John Cobb
Q: In the Bible, who had sons called Ham, Shem and Japheth? A: Noah
Q: America, the Pacific coast: which state is between Washington and California? A: Oregon
Q: Which spirit is the base for Marguerita cocktail? A: Tequila
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""The Painted Veil""?" A: Somerset Maugham
Q: In which London borough is the Oval Cricket Ground? A: Lambeth
Q: Durres is the chief port of which European country? A: Albania
Q: Which spirit is used as the base for a Sea Breeze cocktail? A: Vodka
Q: Velma Kelly and Billy Flynn are two of the leading characters in which 2002 musical? A: Chicago
Q: Which country is bordered by Tanzania, Uganda, South Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia? A: Kenya
Q: "Which British playwright wrote ""Stags and Hens""?" A: Willy Russell
Q: "Who had a 1978 hit with ""Love is in the Air""?" A: John Paul Young
Q: Which pop group comprised David van Day and Thereza Bazar? A: Dollar
Q: "Who painted the picture known as ""The Rokeby Venus""?" A: Velazquez
Q: Which Scottish island is separated from the mainland by the Firth of Lorn(e)? A: Mull
Q: What is the name of the last passenger ship to hold the Blue Riband? A: (SS) United States
Q: Snow, Bean, White-fronted, and Pink-footed are species of which bird? A: Goose
Q: Slieve Donard is the highest summit in which Irish mountain range? A: Mountains of Mourne
Q: What was the name of the sister ship to the Titanic, nicknamed The Old Reliable'? A: (RMS) Olympic
Q: With which instrument is jazz musician Courtney Pine mainly associated? A: Saxophone
Q: "Who wrote and directed the 2003 film ""Love Actually""?" A: Richard Curtis
Q: What type of food is a Berliner Pfannkuchen? A: Doughnut
Q: What is the new Sky TV channel which opened in February 2011? A: (Sky) Atlantic
Q: The 'Free Officers Movement' took control of which country in a 1952 coup? A: Egypt
Q: Who beat Andy Murray in the final of the Australian Open in January 2011? A: Novak Djokovic
Q: Who was the female assistant referee criticised by Andy Gray and Richard Keys, leading to both men's departure from Sky TV? A: Sian Massey
Q: The Canadian province of Manitoba has a north east border with which body of water? A: Hudson Bay
Q: Colonel Hall was a leading character in which US TV series? S A: The Phil Silvers Show
Q: Panji(m) is the capital of which Indian state, popular with holiday makers? A: Goa
Q: What nationality is the operatic tenor Juan Diego Flores? A: Peruvian
Q: Which Scottish island is separated from the mainland by Kilbrannan Sound? A: Arran
Q: How is the chemical sodium thiosuiphate, used as a fixer in photography, better known? A: Hypo
Q: In the USA, motor neurone disease is often named after which baseball player? A: Lou Gehrig
Q: Odense and Aarhus are major cities in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: Which straits separate Corsica and Sardinia? A: (Straits of) Bonifacio
Q: In which year did Lenin die, and Mallory and Irvine disappear on Mount Everest? A: 1924
Q: Which European capital city is on the River Tagus? A: Lisbon
Q: Which human rights group appointed Sharmishta (Shami) Chakrabati as director in 2003? A: Liberty
Q: Which Yorkshire town gives its name to a double lamb chop? A: Barnsley
Q: Which internet service was set up by David Filo and Jerry Yang in 1994? A: Yahoo
Q: Malachite is an ore of which chemical element? A: Copper
Q: """Bound for Glory"" is the 1943 autobiography of which singer-songwriter?" A: Woody Guthrie
Q: Lugnaquilla is the highest summit in which Irish mountain range? A: Wicklow Mountains
Q: In the Sudanese wars, which British general was killed at Khartoum? A: (Charles George) Gordon
Q: Which Italian city is the capital of the region Emilia-Romagna? A: Bologna
Q: The journalist Polly Toynbee writes for which national newspaper? A: The Guardian
Q: "Which US actor, who appeared in the film ""The 40 year old Virgin"", also played the lead role in the US version of ""The Office""?" A: Steve Carell
Q: What name is given to a Papal legate or ambassador to a civil government? A: Nuncio
Q: "Who wrote the book ""Small Island""?" A: Andrea Levy
Q: What was Cliff Richard's first UK number one single in 1959? A: Living Doll
Q: What term is given to the moon when it is between half and full? A: Gibbous
Q: Which company built the USA's first turbojet-powered combat aircraft, the P-80 Shooting Star, which entered service in 1945? A: Lockheed
Q: In the French original of 'Magic Roundabout, the character Pollux had a sweet tooth, what name did the character have in the English version? A: DOUGAL
Q: Ramon Mercader assassinated which C20th leader? A: Leon TROTSKY
Q: Who has written a series of books featuring the character Jack Reacher? A: LEE CHILD
Q: Cain't Say No' is a song in which musical? A: OKLAHOMA
Q: Name the smallest province in Canada. A: PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND
Q: In 1942, which American painted 'Nighthawks'? A: EDWARD HOPPER
Q: Who is the paternal grandmother of Prince Charles? A: PRINCESS ANDREW of GREECE
Q: Maudie Littlehampton appeared in whose pocket cartoons in the Daily Express? A: OSBERT LANCASTER
Q: What name is given to a golden horse with a white mane and tail? A: PALOMINO
Q: Who was Poet Laureate during World War 1? A: ROBERT BRIDGES
Q: Who founded the Theatre Union in 1936 and the Theatre Workshop in 1945 (both in Manchester)? A: JOAN LITTLEWOOD
Q: In Greek mythology who fell from Pegasus as he attempted to fly to Mount Olympus, the realm of the gods? A: BELLEROPHON
Q: In the books about Tin Tin - the dog Snowy is known by what name in the original French? A: MILOU
Q: Name the theatre in Scarborough associated with Alan Ayckborn. A: STEPHEN JOSEPH Theatre
Q: Victoria is the capital of which Canadian Province? A: BRITISH COLUMBIA
Q: Whose autobiography, published in late 2009, was called 'Stirred But Not Shaken'? A: KEITH FLOYD
Q: The line 'There's a girl in New York City who calls herself the human trampoline' comes from which song? A: GRACELAND
Q: Who bowled Don Bradman for a duck in his last Test Innings? A: ERIC HOLLIES
Q: Who was the mother of the Greek mythological hero Perseus? A: DANAE
Q: In which 1953 film does the song 'Secret Love' first appear? A: CALAMITY JANE
Q: Johnston McCulley created which character in 1919? The character became famous in comics, books, film and on TV. A: ZORRO
Q: Which artist created Whaam in 1963? A: ROY LICHTENSTEIN
Q: Which king appointed John Dryden as the first official Poet Laureate? A: CHARLES II
Q: Who shot PM Spencer Perceval? A: JOHN BELLINGHAM
Q: Myron Bolitar appears in a number of thrillers by whom? A: HARLAN COBEN
Q: Which comedian's catchphrase was 'You Lucky People? A: TOMMY TRINDER
Q: What was the name of the comet which crashed into Jupiter in 1994? A: SHOEMAKER-LEVY
Q: Who invented the first effective vaccine against polio, introduced in 1955? A: Dr. JONAS SALK
Q: Which country left the Commonwealth in 1972 and rejoined in 1989? A: PAKISTAN
Q: Who was King of England when Columbus discovered America? A: HENRY VII
Q: What is the world's heaviest seed? A: COCO DE MER
Q: Who became the first American F1 champion in 1961? A: PHIL HILL
Q: Who was the first American President to live in the White House? A: JOHN ADAMS
Q: Lucie Manette is the heroine of which Dickens Novel? A: A TALE of TWO CITIES
Q: In USA what is a student in a second year of study called? A: SOPHOMORE
Q: Who was buried at Grytviken, South Georgia in 1922? A: Ernest SHACKLETON
Q: The United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing is also known as what? A: SHAKERS
Q: What horse race might originally have been called the Bunbury Stakes? A: The DERBY
Q: Which is the only moon in the solar system with atmosphere? A: TITAN
Q: In Italian sport, what name is given to the fanatical groups of supporters, particularly of the Ferrari motor racing team? A: TIFOSI
Q: Glossitis affects which part of the human body? A: TONGUE
Q: Compounds of mercury and a metal are known as what? A: AMALGAM
Q: Who was sent as Ambassador to Outer Mongolia in 1957 by Khrushchev? A: MOLOTOV
Q: In 1911 who led the first successful expedition to reach the South Pole? A: ROALD AMUNDSEN
Q: Thomas Hardy used what name for Oxford in his novels? A: CHRISTMINSTER
Q: Which fruit has the Latin name Fragaria? A: STRAWBERRY
Q: What do we call what the Americans call a thumb tack? A: DRAWING PIN
Q: What is the more common name for the group of rebels who called themselves 'The Fists of Righteous Harmony' at the turn of the 20th century? A: BOXERS
Q: What is the Chinese art of placement called? A: FENG SHUI
Q: In 1450, Jack Cade led a rebellion against which King? A: HENRY VI
Q: The 1940s US fighter plane the 'Bearcat' was built by which company? A: GRUMMAN
Q: The 1997 play 'Gross Indecency' by Moises Kaufman was about the three trials of which man in the late 19th century? A: OSCAR WILDE
Q: "Name the film based on the Noel Coward play ""Still Life"", the theme music is Rachmaninov's Piano Concerto No 7 and the railway station featured in the film was Carnforth?" A: BRIEF ENCOUNTER
Q: "Which politician coined the phrase ""A week is a long time in politics""?" A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: Which actress of the early screen days was known as 'America's Sweetheart? A: MARY PICKFORD
Q: In astronomy what name is given to a cloud of gas and dust in space? A: NEBULA
Q: If you were celebrating your coral wedding anniversary, for how many years have you been married? A: 35
Q: The Victoria Cross is the highest military decoration in Britain, what is the highest civilian decoration? A: GEORGE CROSS
Q: From which film does the song 'How are things in Glocca Morra?' come? A: FINIAN'S RAINBOW
Q: Who is the current Home Secretary? A: THERESA MAY
Q: What is the former name of 'Belize'? A: BRITISH HONDURAS
Q: In which year did Frank Sinatra die after a long illness? A: 1998
Q: The cha-cha-cha is a dance developed from the mambo in 1950 in which country? A: CUBA
Q: Which Eire county is surrounded on three sides by the Atlantic Ocean and has Lifford as the county town? A: DONEGAL
Q: Which Football League Team has the nickname 'The Glovers'? A: YEOVIL TOWN
Q: Which invention in 1891 made Whitcomb L Judson famous? A: ZIP FASTENER
Q: Veal Escalope is veal fried in what? A: BREADCRUMBS
Q: Name the 1978 TV programme in which Lorne Green played Commander Adama and Dirk Benedict plays Lieutenant Starbuck? A: BATTLESTAR GALACTICA
Q: Which vegetable has varieties called 'The Student' and 'Tender and True'? A: PARSNIP
Q: Name the film infamous for a controversial scene where a knickerless Sharon Stone crosses her legs? A: BASIC INSTINCT
Q: Which politician coined the phrase 'The unacceptable face of capitalism'? A: EDWARD HEATH
Q: Which former TV personality committed suicide in her bathroom in October 1980, one week after being found guilty of shoplifting? A: LADY ISOBEL BARNETT
Q: Which famous person was known as 'The Little Sparrow'? A: EDITH PIAF
Q: In astronomy what name is given to a star that flares up to many times its normal brilliance then fades back to obscurity? A: NOVA
Q: What is the capital city of Sierra Leone? A: FREETOWN
Q: What do the Americans call what we call a receptionist? A: DESK CLERK
Q: If you were celebrating your pearl wedding anniversary for how many years have you been married? A: 30
Q: Name the novel in which the main characters Leopold and Molly Bloom live in Dublin in 1904? A: ULYSSES
Q: Which European country does not have an army? A: LIECHTENSTEIN
Q: In the Bible who was the father of King David? A: JESSE
Q: Who was Earl Spencer's best man who was jailed for fraud? A: DARIUS GUPPY
Q: Which African Country's flag consists of vertical stripes of green, yellow and red with a green star in the centre of the yellow stripe? A: SENEGAL
Q: What is added to whisky and angostura bitters to make the cocktail Highball? A: GINGER ALE
Q: In which year was Nelson Mandela released from prison? A: 1990
Q: The tango is a dance originated in 1920 in which Country? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which Eire county in the province of Leinster has the county town of Trim and has Tara as its main attraction? A: MEATH
Q: Which football league team has the nickname 'The Cherries'? A: BOURNEMOUTH
Q: "Which item was advertised with the slogan ""Gives a Meal Man Appeal""?" A: OXO
Q: 'Korma' is an Indian cooking instruction to do what? A: BRAISE
Q: Name the TV programme in which Stuart Damon played Craig Stirling and William Gaunt played Richard Barrett? A: THE CHAMPIONS
Q: How many players in a women's lacrosse team? A: 12
Q: Papworth Hospital is in which county? A: CAMBRIDGESHIRE
Q: Who were 'Glad All Over' in their No. 1 hit of 1965? A: DAVE CLARK FIVE
Q: Which EU country has the greatest population? A: Germany
Q: What is the name of the enormously obese man who explodes in Monty Python's 'The Meaning of Life'? A: Mr Creosote
Q: In 1983 Sarah Jane Hutt was the last UK winner of which title? A: Miss World
Q: In which year was the National Lottery started? A: 1994
Q: Snow Breweries is the biggest brewing company in which country? A: China
Q: Which island separates the American and Canadian Falls at Niagara? A: Goat Island
Q: Who wrote 'The Rime of the Ancient Mariner'? A: (Samuel Taylor) Coleridge
Q: Name the actress who left Eastenders in 2011 after 25 years in the show, she played Pat Evans (also Beale, Wicks and Butcher)? A: Pam St Clement
Q: Who was proclaimed Emperor of Rome whilst in York in 306AD? A: Constantine
Q: Who would wear a hat known as a toque? A: A Chef
Q: What is the opposite of Utopia? A: Dystopia
Q: In 17th century England, what was at various times 'Addled', 'Short' and 'Useless'? A: Parliament
Q: In particle physics there are six 'flavours' of quarks; up, down, top and bottom are four of them, name either of the other two. A: Strange and charm
Q: In French it is Mont Cervin, how is known in English? A: Matterhorn
Q: Who is the producer of shows including Les Miserables, Phantom of the Opera, Mary Poppins and Cats? A: Cameron Mackintosh
Q: Lucha Libre is a popular form of wrestling, in which country did it originate? A: Mexico
Q: What is the modern name of the Turkish town Halicarnassus? A: Bodrum
Q: The new Hepworth Gallery is in which town, the birthplace of sculptor Barbara Hepworth? A: Wakefield
Q: What is the pan-European emergency telephone number? A: 112
Q: Who is the former Chief Constable of Merseyside, now Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police? A: Bernard Hogan-Howe
Q: Who promoted Barclaycard in a TV advert by not having one? A: Rowan Atkinson
Q: By area which is the largest EU country? A: France
Q: Who hosts the new (Challenge TV) version of the TV quiz show 'Blockbusters'? A: Simon Mayo
Q: In which US state is Deadwood, scene of the shooting of Wild Bill Hickok? A: South Dakota
Q: The evil Mouse King features in which ballet? A: Nutcracker
Q: The seat of the International Criminal Court is in which city? A: The Hague
Q: Styria and Carinthia are states in which country? A: Austria
Q: Which author's characters include Lincoln Rhyme and Kathryn Dance? A: Jeffrey Deaver
Q: The London Philharmonic Orchestra is based in which venue? A: Royal Festival Hall
Q: Who founded the Royal Shakespeare Company in 1961? A: Peter Hall
Q: Which is the most malleable and ductile metal? A: Gold
Q: Which actress appeared as a barmaid in over 2,800 episodes of 'Coronation Street' until her death in 2011? A: Betty Driver
Q: According to the proverb (as in Ecclesiastes in the Old Testament) a live dog is better than what? A: A dead lion
Q: What is the common name of the creature Asterias Rubens? A: Starfish
Q: Which woman was the singer with Jefferson Airplane? A: Grace Slick
Q: What number is dialled to hear the Speaking Clock? A: 123
Q: Who wrote the poem 'The Charge of the Light Brigade'? A: (Alfred Lord) Tennyson
Q: Who won the Man Booker Prize in 2011 for his book 'The Sense of an Ending'? A: Julian Barnes
Q: Charlene, Princess of Monaco, was an Olympic swimmer for which country? A: South Africa
Q: In which town is the Britannia Royal Naval College? A: Dartmouth
Q: The House of Silk by Anthony Horowitz is about which character? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: Who, when aged 42 years and 103 days, is the oldest footballer to play for England? A: Stanley Matthews
Q: Which BBC2 TV programme is based on the Japanese 'Money No Tora' or 'Money Tiger'? A: Dragon's Den
Q: In which US state is Tombstone, scene of the Gunfight at the OK Corral? A: Arizona
Q: In which ancient city is the 'Street of Facades' and the 'Treasury'? A: Petra
Q: Who, in an ancient myth, removed a thorn from a lion's paw? A: Androcles
Q: Name either country involved in the 'Pastry War' of 1838. A: France and Mexico
Q: "Who sculpted 'The Angel of the North""?" A: Anthony Gormley
Q: What is the administrative centre for Derbyshire? A: Matlock
Q: By what first name was Tiger Woods legally known until at least his 21st birthday? A: Eldrick
Q: Of what is ghee a variety? A: Butter
Q: What is the three digit landline telephone number available in the UK to contact the police in non-emergency situations? A: 101
Q: Which South African bullion coin is named after a 19th century President of the South African Republic? A: Krugerrand
Q: At the end of 2011, which Pacific island nation advanced a whole day by adjusting its time zone? A: Samoa
Q: Who writes the series of novels about Hamish Macbeth and Agatha Raisin? A: M C Beaton
Q: Which Scottish king was killed at the Battle of Flodden in 1513? A: James IV
Q: Sinope and Carme are two satellites of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: Germinal and Messidor are months in which calendar? A: French Revolutionary Calendar
Q: Mia Farrow is the daughter of which actress? A: Maureen O'Sullivan
Q: In 1949 Time magazine profile erroneously gave Louis Armstrong which middle name? A: Daniel
Q: Malus sylvestris is the Latin name of which fruit? A: Crab Apple
Q: The Robin is a member of which family of birds? A: Thrush
Q: Austrian born but naturalised Briton Otto Frisch 1904-1979 achieved fame in which field? A: Physics
Q: What is the surname of top national hunt racehorse trainer David who took over his stables from his dad Martin in 2006? A: Pipe
Q: What was discovered at Alta Mira in Northern Spain in 1879? A: Cave Paintings
Q: Film director Lindsay Anderson was born in which country? A: India
Q: Historically an Essex market town, what is the administrative centre of the London Borough of Havering? A: Romford
Q: Who played Michelangelo in the 1965 film 'The Agony and the Ecstasy'? A: Charlton Heston
Q: Which artist's portrait of Churchill was destroyed by Lady Churchill? A: Graham Sutherland
Q: What is the administrative centre of Kent? A: Maidstone
Q: What was Harold Wilson's actual first Christian name? A: James
Q: Of what is the brand name Spam a contraction? A: Spiced Ham
Q: In UK 999 is the emergency telephone number to contact the police etc. what is the European equivalent? A: 112
Q: Who was the Archbishop of Canterbury at the time of the present queen's coronation? A: Geoffrey Fisher
Q: What is the appropriately named Canadian bullion coin containing one troy ounce of gold? A: Maple
Q: Give a year in the reign of William IV. A: 1830-37
Q: Who writes the series of novels about Chief Inspector Alan Banks? A: Peter Robinson
Q: Robert the Bruce's son succeeded him as King of Scotland. Who was he? A: David II
Q: Puccini's opera La Boheme was first performed in which decade? A: 1890's
Q: "Which African country's football team has the nickname ""The Lions of Terang""?" A: Senegal
Q: Toussaint Louverture led a revolution in 1791 in what present day country? A: Haiti
Q: Adjutant, maribou and white are types of which bird? A: Stork
Q: Despina and Thalassa are two satellites of which planet? A: Neptune
Q: What was the actual first name of Bette Davis? A: Ruth
Q: Pyrus communis is the Latin name of which fruit? A: (European) Pear
Q: The wading birds, curlew and snipe belong to which family of birds? A: Sandpipers
Q: If you travelled due west from Punta Arenas in Chile you would make landfall in which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: What was the previous occupation of the pop singer Dave Dee? A: Policeman
Q: Film director Fred Zimmerman was born in which country? A: Austria
Q: Catford is the administrative centre for which London borough? A: Lewisham
Q: Who played Mortimer Brewster in the 1942 film Arsenic and Old Lace? A: Cary Grant
Q: Who was Big Ben named after? A: Benjamin Hall
Q: How many years constitute a sugar wedding anniversary? A: Six
Q: Rosemarie Frankland was the first British winner of what in 1961? A: Miss World
Q: What was the surname of outlaw Rob Roy? A: Macgregor
Q: Who won the 2011 South American football championships (Copa America)? A: Uruguay
Q: Which singer is the only one to record three James Bond themes? A: SHIRLEY BASSEY
Q: In WWII in Germany there was the Siegreid Line; in France the Maginot Line, in Finland the Mannerheim Line, but in which other European Country was the Gustav Line? A: ITALY
Q: What is the name of the Editor in Chief of Wikileaks? A: JULIAN ASSANGE
Q: What nickname is given to the financial district of London? A: THE SQUARE MILE
Q: What is the name of the Idiot Abroad in the programme of the same name? A: KARL PILKINGTON
Q: Charles Saatchi once bought a sculpture of a head made from which unusual substance? A: BLOOD
Q: What is the name of the artist who painted the picture of the Fallen Madonna with the Big Boobies as featured in TV series Allo Allo? A: VAN KLOMP
Q: In the bible what name is given to the following Michael, Raphael, Uriel, Selaphiel, Jegudiel and Barachiel known as? A: ARCHANGELS
Q: In which religion is the Baron Samedi a prominent figure? A: VOODOO
Q: In which European region is the flag red, green and white and is similar to the Union Jack? A: BASQUE REGION
Q: Eliza Manningham Buller was the former Director General of which organisation? A: MI5
Q: Apart from South Africa which other African nation played in the 2011 Rugby World Cup? A: NAMIBIA
Q: Which racing driver had the nickname the Shunt? A: JAMES HUNT
Q: In which former Russian state is Chernobyl located? A: UKRAINE
Q: By what nickname is Caesar Milan better known? A: THE DOG WHISPERER
Q: In France this sport is known as Parkour by what name is it better known in Britain? A: FREE RUNNING
Q: Chinese artist Ai Wei Wei had an exhibit banned because of the dust which was given off by which material? A: PORCELAIN DUST
Q: In which county is Sunningdale Golf Course found? A: BERKSHIRE
Q: Which film character has been played by George Cole and Russell Brand? A: FLASH HARRY
Q: In which country was the 2009 Indian Premier League played? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Which country's flag contains a shield on a red and white chequered design? A: CROATIA
Q: In which county is Wentworth Golf Course found? A: SURREY
Q: On which quiz show does Richard Osman appear? A: POINTLESS
Q: During the mid 90's the baldy man with the bad comb-over was in the adverts for which products? A: HAMLET CIGARS
Q: The Olympics of London, Berlin, Tokyo and Helsinki were all postponed because of what? A: WORLD WARS
Q: In which harbour is the area 'called The Sandbanks found? A: POOLE
Q: Suzy Perry is a presenter on which Channel 5 programme? A: THE GADGET SHOW
Q: Jerry Baldwin, Gordon Bowker and Zev Siegel founded which refreshment company in 1971? A: STARBUCKS COFFEE
Q: "Who was the director of the Hitchcock spoof film ""High Anxiety""?" A: MEL BROOKS
Q: How often are the Oberammergau Passion Plays held? A: EVERY TEN YEARS
Q: During which decade were Jochen Rindt. Jackie Stewart, Emerson Fittipaldi and Niki Lauda Fl World Champions? A: 1970s
Q: During WWII who was known as Uncle Joe? A: JOSEPH STALIN
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the City of Berlin? A: THE BEAR
Q: Which 2010 film was based on the story of Aaron Ralston? A: 127 HOURS
Q: Which is the last grand slam tennis tournament of the year? A: THE US OPEN
Q: The RTS is the Stock Exchange of which European Country? A: RUSSIA
Q: What nickname did goalkeeper Brian Jansen have? A: THE BEAST
Q: Vicki Butler Henderson is a presenter on which Channel 5 programme? A: FIFTH GEAR
Q: The Golden Temple at Amritsar is sacred to members of which religion? A: SIKH(ISM)
Q: Which country's cricket team are called the Proteas? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Who is the founder of Facebook? A: MARK ZUCKERBERG
Q: Scapa Flow is situated in which part of the British Isles? A: THE ORKNEY ISLANDS
Q: In which sport would a player step up to the plate? A: BASEBALL
Q: The M5 motorway runs from Birmingham to which city in Devon? A: EXETER
Q: Manchester City defender Vincent Kompany plays for which international team? A: BELGIUM
Q: The chemical element sodium has what chemical symbol? A: Na
Q: The chemical element mercury has what chemical symbol? A: Hg
Q: What is the capital of the German region of Saxony? A: DRESDEN
Q: Arsenal midfielder Tomas Rosicky plays for which international team? A: CZECH REPUBLIC
Q: Yulia Tymashenko imprisoned for abuse of her office was a former Prime Minister of which European country? A: UKRAINE
Q: How is the mathematical series 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 etc better known? A: FIBONACCI
Q: Who is to play Miss Havisham in the 2012 film version of Dickens' Great Expectations'? A: HELENA BONHAM CARTER
Q: Who is to play the role of Bilbo Baggins in the 2012 film of Tolkien's 'The Hobbit'? A: MARTIN FREEMAN
Q: What is the mathematical name for series such as 2, 6, 18, 54 etc where the next term in the sequence is obtained by multiplying the previous one by a fixed number? A: GEOMETRIC
Q: What is the appropriate name of the current Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales? A: LORD JUDGE
Q: The beer Singha originates in which country? A: THAILAND
Q: What word derived from Greek and also a religious feast means a sudden realization of the larger meaning or essence of something? A: EPIPHANY
Q: Kirin beers originate in which country? A: JAPAN
Q: For what does the B stand in the acronym COBRA? A: (CABINET OFFICE) BRIEFING
Q: Who is the current Father of the House of Commons? A: SIR PETER TAPSELL
Q: Which actor has appeared in the films `Se7en', 'Fight Club', 'Inglourious Basterds' and 'Oceans Eleven'? A: BRAD PITT
Q: What was the currency of the Netherlands before the Euro? A: GUILDER
Q: Which of Thomas Hardy's novel which opens on Guy Fawkes Night takes place on Egdon Heath? A: THE RETURN OF THE NATIVE
Q: 'Sitting on a comflake waiting for the van to come' is a line from which Beatles song from 'Magical Mystery Tour' album? A: I AM THE WALRUS
Q: What was the currency of Portugal before the Euro? A: ESCUDO
Q: Which actor has appeared in the films Invictus', 'The Departed', 'The Talented Mr Ripley' and 'Oceans Eleven'? A: MATT DAMON
Q: What is the English title of the first book of Stieg Larsson's 'Millennium' trilogy? A: THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO
Q: From what country does the cheese Jarlsberg originate? A: NORWAY
Q: In the Lotto Thunderball draw, you choose 1 Thunderball from how many? A: 14
Q: In the Euro Millions draw you choose 2 lucky star numbers from how many? A: 11
Q: From what country does the cheese Castello originate? A: DENMARK
Q: Who plays himself in the TV sitcom 'Episodes'? A: MATT LEBLANC
Q: Which Norwegian author created the detective Harry Hole in books such as 'The Redbreast' and 'The Snowman'? A: JO NESBO
Q: What species of British breeding birds can be Great, Arctic or Long-tailed? A: SKUA
Q: In which Libyan city, his birthplace, was Colonel Gaddafi captured and killed in October 2011? A: SIRTE
Q: In 1498 who painted 'The Last Supper', located in the refectory of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan? A: LEONARDO DA VINCI
Q: In what year was the 50 pence piece introduced? A: 1969
Q: In what year was the pound coin introduced? A: 1983
Q: Who, in 1642, painted 'The Night Watch', now to be found in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam? A: REMBRANDT
Q: In which Pakistani town was Osama bin Laden captured and killed in May 2011? A: ABBOTTABAD
Q: What species of British breeding birds can be Reed, Corn or Snow? A: BUNTING
Q: In which British city is Citadel railway station? A: CARLISLE
Q: In what year did the 9/11 attacks in the USA take place? A: 2001
Q: What was the capital of Portugal prior to Lisbon? A: COIMBRA
Q: In what year did the 7/7 attacks in London take place? A: 2005
Q: Sportsman Gerry Watson is better by which first name? A: BUBBA
Q: In which US state is the city of Cincinnati? A: OHIO
Q: Who was King of England in 1200? A: JOHN
Q: Who was King of England in 1400? A: HENRY IV
Q: Which Celtic quarter day falls on the 1st of May? A: BELTANE
Q: In which US state is the city of Pittsburgh? A: PENNSYLVANIA
Q: Which vegetable has the Latin name Allium Porrum? A: LEEK
Q: Who won the 2012 Rugby Union Six Nations title? A: WALES
Q: In 1993, Barbara Harmer became the first woman to pilot what? A: Concorde
Q: Who, in the 1967 Dunhill Masters, became the first golfer to make a live 'hole in one' on Brtitsh TV? A: (Tony) Jacklin
Q: """Good Morning Starshine"" and ""Hare Krishna"" are songs from which 1967 musical?" A: Hair
Q: "Who wrote the 1936 book ""How To Win Friends and Influence People""?" A: (Dale) Carnegie
Q: Who, as at July 2011, is Archbishop of Westminster? A: (Vincent) Nichols
Q: What type of Rolls-Royce engines were used to power Concorde? A: Olympus
Q: Who is the youngest driver to win a Formula 1 World Championship? A: (Sebastian) Vettel
Q: Operation Chariot was the code name for which British raid in March 1942? A: (Dry Dock at) St. Nazaire
Q: In which park is London Zoo situated? A: Regent's Park
Q: Who wrote the 1947 book TheTheory and Practice of Gamesmanship? A: Stephen-Potter
Q: Which 1985 film was nominated for eleven Oscars and did not win any A: The Color Purple
Q: What is the capital of the French department Calvados? A: Caen
Q: "Who composed the music for the 1912 ballet ""Daphnis et Chloe""?" A: (Maurice) Ravel
Q: A Black Russian cocktail consists of vodka and which liqueur? A: Coffee Liqueur
Q: What type of creature is a firebrat? A: Insect
Q: Which foodstuff is obtained from the root of the cassava plant? A: Tapioca
Q: What, in the Old Testament, was 300 cubits long, and 30 cubits high? A: Noah's Ark
Q: Night blindness is caused by a deficiency of which vitamin? A: Vitamin A
Q: What is the capital of the Austrian province of Tyrol? A: Innsbruck
Q: "Who composed the 1862 opera ""Beatrice et Benedict'?" A: (Hector) Berlioz
Q: What are the husks of grain separated from flour after grinding called? A: Bran
Q: The head and the abdomen are two of the three part of an insect's body - what is the third? A: Thorax
Q: Who, in the Old Testament, ordered the building of the Golden Calf? A: Aaron
Q: "In ""The Simpson"", what is the name of Bart's school principal?" A: (Seymour) Skinner
Q: How many grains are there in a pennyweight? A: Twenty Four
Q: "Who, in about 1759, painted the picture ""The Shrimp Girl"", now in the National Gallery, London?" A: (William) Hogarth
Q: In Norse mythology, from what type of tree was man first created? A: Ash
Q: Which is the only Far Eastern country to have been a member of OPEC, being so from 1962 to 2008? A: Indonesia
Q: Who was the US Marine involved in arms sales to Iran and diverting money to the Nicaraguan Contras? A: Lt-Col. (Oliver) North
Q: What is the heraldic term for right? A: Dexter
Q: How many links are there in a surveyor's chain? A: One Hundred
Q: "In 'The Simpsons"", what is the forename of the driver of the school bus?" A: Otto
Q: "Who, in 1856, painted the picture ""The Blind Girl, now in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery?" A: (John Everett) Millais
Q: What, in 1985, was Madonna's first UK No. 1? A: Into the Groove
Q: What were invented by English chemist John Walker in 1826, and cost one shilling per hundred? A: (Friction) Matches
Q: The organisation 'Mensa' takes its name from the Latin for which everyday object? A: Table
Q: What is, or was, a Cape Triangle? A: (Postage) Stamp
Q: "Whose 2010 autobiography, is called ""Decision Points""?" A: George W Bush
Q: What type of rocket was used to launch the Apollo spacecraft? A: Saturn
Q: Who was the first British footballer to win the Europen Golden Boot, (now called the Golden Shoe)? A: Ian Rush
Q: What, medically, was invented by Rene Laennec in 1816? A: Stethoscope
Q: The name of which unit of measurement is taken from the Greek meaning universal measure? A: Metre
Q: In the British Police Force, what rank is indicated by a crown on each shoulder? A: Superintendent
Q: What was the nationality of the team that first conquered K2 in 1954? A: Italian
Q: Which fictional detective lived at 56b Whitehaven Mansions? A: Hercule Poirot
Q: "Which Shakespeare play opens with the words ""Now is the winter of our discontent""?" A: RICHARD III
Q: In the world of antiques what is majolica? A: (GLAZED) POTTERY
Q: How many rooms are there in the game of Cluedo? A: NINE
Q: "Which comedian, a director of Fulham FC, had the catch phrase ""You Lucky People'?" A: TOMMY TRINDER
Q: In Green Mythology which god gave Perseus his winged sandals? A: HERMES
Q: On a Monopoly board how many property groups consist of only two properties? A: TWO
Q: "In ""Lady Windermere's Fan"" who or what did Oscar Wilde describe as ""A Man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing""?" A: A CYNIC
Q: What is the Basque national sport? A: JAI ALAI
Q: "The writer of the book ""The Cruel Sea"" was born in Rodney Street, Liverpool. What was his name?" A: NICHOLAS MONSARRAT
Q: In what county is the most northerly point in the island of Ireland? A: DONEGAL
Q: What was the nationality of Adolphus Sachs, the inventor of the Saxophone? A: BELGIAN
Q: Of what country is the chrysanthemum the national flower? A: JAPAN
Q: On which river does Harwich stand? A: STOUR
Q: In which century was the printing press established in Britain? A: 15th
Q: Which South American country was formerly ruled by the Imperial House of Braganza? A: BRAZIL
Q: What brewery produces the beer called Old Speckled Hen? A: MORLANDS
Q: Who wrote the novels 'A Passage to India' and 'A Room with a View'? A: E M FORSTER
Q: Which proponent of Method acting directed the films 'On the Waterfront' and 'East of Eden'? A: ELIA KAZAN
Q: In Greek mythology, how are Clotho, Lachesis and Atropos better known? A: THE FATES
Q: What is the unrhymed iambic pentameter style used by Milton in `Paradise Lost' and 'Wordsworth in 'The Prelude' better known? A: BLANK VERSE
Q: In Arthurian legend, who was Sir Galahad's father? A: SIR LANCELOT
Q: Of which US State is Lansing the capital? A: MICHIGAN
Q: Which heavy metal has the chemical symbol Mo? A: MOLYBDENUM
Q: Who directed the Western Rio Bravo which starred John Wayne and Dean Martin? A: HOWARD HAWKS
Q: Which English Protestant produced the first English translation of the Bible in 1535? A: MILES COVERDALE
Q: What is the longest continuous footpath in the world - it is in the USA? A: THE APPALACHIAN TRAIL
Q: What sort of creature is a nyala? A: AN ANTELOPE
Q: Who lost his world heavyweight boxing title to Gene Tunney in 1926? A: JACK DEMPSEY
Q: Which figures in Greek mythology were also called the Erinyes? A: FURIES
Q: Which Australian city is capital of the Northern Territory? A: DARWIN
Q: By what name was the Russian city of St Petersburg known from 1924 to 1991? A: LENINGRAD
Q: In which country was the actor and director Mel Gibson born? A: USA
Q: Which organ of the body contains the tricuspid valve? A: THE HEART
Q: In which year did the Peterloo Massacre take place? A: 1819
Q: In which war was the Battle of Marston Moor fought? A: ENGLISH CIVIL WAR
Q: Which English Benedictine monk and missionary is known as the Apostle of Germany? A: ST BONIFACE
Q: Which parliamentarian soldier in the Civil War became Cromwell's son-in-law? A: HENRY IRETON
Q: Who drove the car 'Thrust SSC' that first broke the land speed record in September 1997? A: ANDY GREEN
Q: Who wrote the 1997 Number One Song 'A Perfect Day'? A: LOU REED
Q: Which of the apostles was the brother of St Peter? A: ST ANDREW
Q: Which illustrator and watercolourist is best known for his children's book illustrations such as Peter Pan in, 1906? A: ARTHUR RACKHAM
Q: Which band had a hit with the song 'Brown Girl in the Ring'? A: BONEY M
Q: Who played Grant Mitchell in 'EastEnders'? A: ROSS KEMP
Q: Kings Oak was the location for which TV soap opera? A: CROSSROADS
Q: For which disease is morbilli the Latin name? A: MEASLES
Q: 'Lady's slipper' is a variety of which flower? A: ORCHID
Q: The Erskine Bridge carries the A898 over which river? A: CLYDE
Q: In which play does Lady Bracknell memorably say 'A handbag'? A: THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST
Q: What has been made at the Black Friars distillery in Devon since 1793 and has EU geographical protected status? A: PLYMOUTH GIN
Q: Who painted a number of paintings of water lilies in his garden at Giverny? A: CLAUDE MONET
Q: Launched in 1989 the MX-5 is a car made by which company? A: MAZDA
Q: In the book 'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory', what is Charlie's surname? A: BUCKET
Q: Which African country was formerly called Bechuanaland? A: BOTSWANA
Q: Which Ray Bradbury novel opens with the line 'It was a pleasure to burn'? A: FAHRENHEIT 451
Q: The only hovercraft service in Britain crosses which stretch of water? A: THE SOLENT
Q: Who painted his grandson in the famous work, `Bubbles'? A: JOHN EVERETT MILLAIS
Q: 'London Pride' and 'Chiswick Bitter' are beers from which brewery? A: FULLER'S
Q: Nouakchott is the capital of which African country? A: MAURITANIA
Q: In Greek mythology, who fell in love with a statue called Galatea? A: PYGMALION
Q: Heather Small was lead singer with which successful Manchester band? A: M PEOPLE
Q: Who followed Roy Plomley as presenter of 'Desert Island Discs'? A: MICHAEL PARKINSON
Q: Which woman tennis player has won the most grand slam titles with 62? A: MARGARET COURT
Q: What is the more common name for the zygomatic bone? A: CHEEKBONE
Q: In which city is the soap opera `Hollyoaks' set? A: CHESTER
Q: Which actress is the mother of actresses Joely and the late Natasha Richardson? A: VANESSA REDGRAVE
Q: Who was the first artiste from Liverpool to have a number one hit in Britain? A: LITA ROZA
Q: Who in 1948 became the first American born poet to win the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: TS ELIOT
Q: Who composed the oratorio Carmina Burana? A: CARL ORFF
Q: What botanically has varieties Jonathan, Rome Beauty and Sunset? A: APPLE
Q: Which cinema legend died on Christmas Day 1977 at the age of 88? A: CHARLIE CHAPLIN
Q: Which rock star died in 1994 believing 'it's better to burn out than fade away'? A: KURT COBAIN
Q: 'The Sorcerer's Apprentice' is the best known work by which composer? A: PAUL DUKAS
Q: Foinavon won the Grand National in 1967 at odds of 100-1. What was the next horse to win it at odds of 100-1? A: MON MOME
Q: Kenny Dalglish and Herbert Chapman have both won top flight English league championships with two different clubs. Who is the only other man to do this? A: BRIAN CLOUGH
Q: In which dale of the Peak District can Lover's Leap be found? A: DOVEDALE
Q: Who played the Vicar of Dibley on TV? A: DAWN FRENCH
Q: Who is the Italian born architect of The Shard in London? A: RENZO PIANO
Q: Which river separates Cornwall from Devon? A: THE TAMAR
Q: Mount Toubkal, at 13665 ft is the highest peak in which African mountain range? A: ATLAS MOUNTAINS
Q: At 2880 square miles which is the largest county in Ireland? A: CORK
Q: Sir Peter Paul Rubens painted the ceiling of which building situated in London? A: THE BANQUETING HOUSE WHITEHALL
Q: Who played Lewis in 'Morse' and also in its spin off 'Lewis'? A: KEVIN WHATELY
Q: Barbara Millicent Roberts first appeared on this planet in 1959. How is she better known? A: BARBIE
Q: Which inlet of the Irish Sea separates Cumbria from Dumfries and Galloway? A: THE SOLWAY FIRTH
Q: Kwame Nkrumah was the first President of which African country? A: GHANA
Q: Which element has atomic number 8? A: OXYGEN
Q: Where did Fiddler's Dram go on a day trip to in 1979? A: BANGOR
Q: What profession did St Joseph husband of the Virgin Mary have? A: CARPENTER
Q: With which West German Chancellor is the policy of Ostpolitik associated? A: WILLY BRANDT
Q: Christian Horner is team principal for which F1 racing team? A: RED BULL RACING
Q: What is the name of the soccer team in Los Angeles for which David Beckham plays? A: GALAXY
Q: Who was the mother of Christ's mother, Mary? A: ST ANNE
Q: Whom did Queen Victoria succeed in 1837? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: Which part of the body is affected by epistaxis? A: NOSE
Q: Butch the dog, Kipper the cat and Ramsbottom the snake were friends of which TV puppet? A: SOOTY
Q: Which famous British singer and songwriter, born at Smithdown Hospital in Liverpool, died on 28th January 1983? A: BILLY FURY
Q: Leila Williams was the first female presenter of which children's TV series? A: BLUE PETER
Q: In which month is 'The Last Night of the Proms' held? A: SEPTEMBER
Q: Which WW2 aircraft was known as 'The Stringbag'? A: (FAIREY) SWORDFISH
Q: `Fallopia japonica' is a perennial weed, very difficult to eradicate. How is it better known? A: JAPANESE KNOTWEED
Q: Which poet, the sister of a famous English painter, wrote: 'Morning and evening, Maids heard the goblins cry: Come buy our orchard fruits, Come buy, come buy'? A: CHRISTINA ROSSETTI
Q: In which London open space is the Albert Memorial? A: KENSINGTON GARDENS
Q: Historically which Rugby League Super League side were known as 'The Loiners'? A: LEEDS
Q: Who wrote the poem 'Ash Wednesday', published in 1930? A: T S ELIOT
Q: Where, in Wales, is Beaumaris Castle? A: ANGLESEY
Q: Which Briton beat Oliver McCall to become WBC World Heavyweight champion in 1995? A: FRANK BRUNO
Q: In which BBC radio series did Henry Crun and Minnie Bannister feature? A: THE GOON SHOW
Q: Which American group is made up of will.i.am, apl.de.ap, Taboo and Fergie? A: BLACK EYED PEAS
Q: Which element, atomic number 11, is a soft, silvery-white, highly reactive metal? A: SODIUM
Q: Which actor got stung in 'The Sting'? A: ROBERT SHAW
Q: Cricketer James Pattinson made his test debut for Australia this year. What is the first name of his brother, a Nottinghamshire player who played one test for England in 2008? A: DARREN
Q: The word anserine' means resembling which bird? A: GOOSE
Q: Which Shakespeare play introduced the phrase 'Shuffle off this mortal coil'? A: HAMLET
Q: Which British band is made up of Aston Merrygold, Marvin Humes, Jonathan 'JB' Gill and Oritse Williams? A: JLS
Q: Which pilot from Richthofen's Circus became a prominent political figure? A: HERMANN GORING
Q: Which element, atomic number 82, a heavy metal, is soft and malleable, blue/white when freshly cut, but soon turns grey? A: LEAD
Q: Which brewery is based in Wainfleet, Lincolnshire? A: BATEMANS
Q: Who became Poet Laureate in 1930? A: JOHN MASEFIELD
Q: William the Conqueror built a castle in York in 1068. Rebuilt in the 13th century, by what name is the ruined keep now known? A: CLIFFORD'S TOWER
Q: Who wrote: 'The curfew tolls the knell of parting day. The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea'? A: THOMAS GRAY
Q: Who designed the Albert Memorial in London? A: SIR GEORGE GILBERT SCOTT
Q: Historically which Rugby League Super League side were known as 'The Airlie Birds'? A: HULL FC
Q: Which children's TV series began with the narrative: 'In the lands of the North, where the black rocks stand guard against the cold sea....! ? A: NOGGIN THE NOG
Q: Since 1995, in which month is the Eurovision Song Contest held? A: MAY
Q: Which WW2 aircraft was known as 'The Wimpy'? A: (VICKERS) WELLINGTON
Q: What is the surname of Doug who made his test debut for New Zealand this year? His father Brendan and uncle John were also New Zealand test cricketers. A: BRACEWELL
Q: Which Shakespeare play coined the phrase 'Salad Days' to describe a time of youth and inexperience? A: ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
Q: Hannibal Hamlin and Andrew Johnson were Vice Presidents of which President of the USA? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: Venus and which other planet have a retrograde rotation (backward spin) around their axes? A: URANUS
Q: With which film do you associate Lara's Theme? A: DR ZHIVAGO
Q: Of which famous song is this the first line 'Everybody's doin' a brand new dance now'? A: THE LOCOMOTION
Q: Who was the father of the Black Prince? A: EDWARD III
Q: Which famous American singer-songwriter and musician, born in Vernon, Texas, died on 6th December 1988? A: ROY ORBISON
Q: Cheyenne is the capital of which US state? A: WYOMING
Q: What number completes the name of the Japanese team for which Gary Linker played, Nagoya Grampus A: EIGHT
Q: Which British born actor's real name was James Lablache Stewart (1913 -1993)? A: STEWART GRANGER
Q: In crossing which body of water was King John reputed to have lost most of his Crown Jewels? A: THE WASH
Q: In Heraldry, what does 'Sinister' mean? A: (ON THE) LEFT
Q: Which Turkish mountains have the same name as a sign of the Zodiac? A: TAURUS
Q: Which comedian hosted BBC TV's 'One Show' for a three month period at the end of 2010? A: Jason Manford
Q: How many points are awarded to a driver for winning a Formula One Grand Prix? A: 25
Q: Where did the first battle of the Wars of the Roses take place? A: St Albans
Q: Which golfer, the first to complete a career Grand Slam - winning the four Majors at some time during his career, achieved a hole-in-one in the 1973 Open at Troon at the age of 71? A: Gene Sarazen
Q: Who is the storyteller in the 'One Thousand and One Nights'? A: Scheherazade
Q: Who formed the first Triumvirate with Pompey and Crassus? A: Julius Caesar
Q: The £2 coin was first issued in the UK in 1986 to celebrate which event? A: Commonwealth Games
Q: Viti Levu and Vanua Levu are the two major islands that make up which country? A: Fiji
Q: Which King of England was the son of Henry II and father of Henry III? A: John
Q: Which singer's name has been in the title of two number 1 hits in 2011, by Cher Lloyd and Maroon 5? A: Mick Jagger
Q: How is the number 2 written when expressed as a binary number? A: 10
Q: The film 'The Third Man' was set in which city? A: Vienna
Q: Lichfield and which other cathedral have three spires? A: Truro
Q: The Alabama Three performed the theme song for which major US TV series? A: The Sopranos
Q: All but three of the moons of Uranus are named after Shakespearean characters; the names of the other three are taken from a poem by whom? A: Alexander Pope
Q: Which island is made up of three counties, Cornwall, Middlesex and Surrey? A: Jamaica
Q: Paul McNamee, Mark Woodforde, Jonathan Stark and Leander Paes were the four men who partnered which woman to win the mixed doubles title at Wimbledon, in 1985, 93, 95 and 2003? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: Which chemical element has the Atomic Number 4 and is the first of the Alkaline Earth metals? A: Beryllium
Q: The flag of which county has bands of four colours, a red vertical band at the hoist and horizontal stripes of green, white and black? A: United Arab Emirates
Q: Which US President, in a State of the Union address, proposed four fundamental freedoms? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: Who composed the violin concerto 'The Four Seasons'? A: Antonio Vivaldi
Q: The symbols known as the 'Five Ks' are central to which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Slaughterhouse Five'? A: Kurt Vonnegut
Q: 'Five Points' was the setting for which 2002 Martin Scorsese film starring Daniel Day-Lewis, Leonardo DiCaprio, Cameron Diaz and Liam Neeson? A: Gangs of New York
Q: In 2010 Channel Five was taken over by The Northern & Shell Publishing Group which includes the Daily Express and Daily Star, who owns the company? A: Richard Desmond
Q: In the children's TV series who was the pilot of fireball XL5? A: Steve Zodiac
Q: No. 6 was the major character in which cult TV series? A: The Prisoner
Q: Which car company produced the Speed Six, famous for its race against the 'Blue Train', between 1926 and 1930? A: Bentley
Q: The Six-Day War took place in which year? A: 1967
Q: SIX is the principal stock exchange in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: Who was the commander-in-chief of the German 6th Army when it surrendered at Stalingrad in February 1943? A: Friedrich Von Paulus
Q: Which of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World stood at Ephesus? A: Temple of Artemis
Q: Which Dutch artist painted 'The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things' in approximately 1500? A: Hieronymus Bosch
Q: The A7 road runs from Edinburgh to which English town or city? A: Carlisle
Q: "In the Book of Proverbs who, in building her house, ""hath hewn out her seven pillars""?" A: Wisdom
Q: Complete the name of the shopping district in the Covent Garden area of London, Seven A: Dials
Q: 'Seven Tears' by The Goombay Dance Band reached no.1 in 1982, becoming only the second act from which European country to top the UK charts? A: Germany
Q: Which Shropshire town is named after a seventh century king of Northumbria? A: Oswestry
Q: Who was 'King's Painter' to Henry 8th who died, possibly from plague, in 1543? A: Hans Holbein
Q: What is the popular name of Mahler's Symphony no. 8? A: Symphony of a Thousand
Q: After-Eights are now made by Nestle, which company created them in 1962? A: Rowntree
Q: Eight-ball is a popular version of which game? A: Pool
Q: '8 Mile' was a 2002 film starring rapper Eminem, in which US city was it set? A: Detroit
Q: Which TV sitcom features the Brockman family? A: Outnumbered
Q: What is the name of Dvorak's ninth symphony? A: From the New World
Q: Who composed a Symphony No. 0? A: Anton Bruckner
Q: In Thomas Hardy's novels Casterbridge is based on which real town or city? A: DORCHESTER
Q: Which former England cricket captain wore the number 600 on his shirt? A: (Michael) VAUGHAN
Q: In which town is the administrative headquarters of Wiltshire? A: TROWBRIDGE
Q: Which French wine region produces Pouilly-Fuisse? A: BURGUNDY
Q: In which town Is the administrative headquarters of Buckinghamshire? A: AYLESBURY
Q: Which tree has the Latin name Ilex? A: HOLLY
Q: Which French wine region produces Pouilly-Fume? A: LOIRE VALLEY
Q: Which bird appears as a supporter on the Australian coat of arms? A: EMU
Q: What name is given to the untanned skins of sharks and rays? A: SHAGREEN
Q: Who was king of England In 1300? A: EDWARD the FIRST
Q: Which scientist was the first, in 1888, to demonstrate the existence of electromagnetic waves? A: (Heinrich Rudolf) HERTZ
Q: Which bird appears of the state flag of Louisiana? A: PELICAN
Q: What name is given to the decorative articles made from marine animal's bones, teeth or tusks? A: SCRIMSHAW
Q: """Frankly my dear, I couldn't give a damn"" is a famous catchphrase spoken by which film character?" A: Rhett BUTLER
Q: Which is the main river that flows through Toulouse? A: GARONNE
Q: Who, in 1923, wrote 'Toward An Architecture'? A: LE CORBUSIER
Q: What name is given to birds that perch? A: PASSERINE
Q: Which Tory minister resigned in 1992 following the revelation of his affair with Antonia de Sancha? A: (David) MELLOR
Q: The Kray twins were convicted of the murder of George Cornell in which East End pub? A: BLIND BEGGAR
Q: Prior to Steve McClaren who was the last Englishman appointed as permanent England Manager? A: (Kevin) KEEGAN
Q: Which word is used to describe egg laying mammals? A: MONOTREME
Q: "Who, in 1776, wrote ""The Wealth of Nations""?" A: (Adam) SMITH
Q: "In the TV series 'The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin"" for which company did he originally work?" A: SUNSHINE DESSERTS
Q: Who is the second most mentioned man in the Bible? A: DAVID
Q: The sackbut developed into which modern musical instrument? A: TROMBONE
Q: Which country was the first to give women the vote? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: "In which industry is the ""Kimberly Process Certification Scheme"" used?" A: DIAMOND
Q: Which English long distance path runs from Overton Hill near Avebury to Ivinghoe Beacon? A: RIDGEWAY
Q: Which figure of speech is represented by such phrases as 'pretty ugly' and 'black Is white'? A: OXYMORON
Q: Where in the human body would you find the pineal gland? A: BRAIN
Q: According to the latest census, in 2001, what is the second most spoken language In Australia? A: CHINESE
Q: "In the 2009 remake of ""Reggie Perrin"" who played the title role?" A: (Martin) CLUNES
Q: Which of the United States was the first to give women the vote? A: WYOMING
Q: The shawm has developed into which modern musical instrument? A: OBOE
Q: Which English long distance path runs from Hassle to Filey? A: WOLD'S WAY
Q: Which artery supplies blood to the head and brain? A: CAROTID
Q: "On which fictitious estate does the TV series ""Shameless"" take place?" A: CHATSWORTH
Q: What was the name of Ghana prior to independence? A: GOLD COAST
Q: "Who wrote the 1972 novel ""Watership Down""?" A: RICHARD ADAMS
Q: On TV Peter Griffin is the father figure in which cartoon series? A: FAMILY GUY
Q: Which sport was, allegedly, invented by Abner Doubleday in Cooperstown, New York in 1839? A: BASEBALL
Q: Which writer created the the character Walter Mitty? A: (James) THURBER
Q: The Afon Hafren is Welsh name for which British river? A: SEVERN
Q: In WWII what name was given to the top secret material gained from the Enigma machines? A: ULTRA
Q: On TV Stan Smith is father figure in which cartoon series? A: AMERICAN DAD
Q: William George Morgan of Holyoke, Massachusetts invented which sport in 1895? A: VOLLEYBALL
Q: African bush and African forest are species of which animal? A: ELEPHANT
Q: Which writer created the character Sergeant Cuff? A: (Wilkie) COLLINS
Q: Three of the stations on an English monopoly board are King's Cross, Marylebone and Liverpool Street what is the fourth? A: FENCHURCH STREET
Q: Ethel Le Neve was the mistress of which criminal? A: (Dr.) CRIPPEN
Q: "A dish described as ""a la Du Barry"" contains which vegetable?" A: CAULIFLOWER
Q: "Who played Cat Woman in the 1997 film ""Batman Returns""?" A: (Michelle) PFEIFFER
Q: Which small European country's flag is two horizontal bands light blue over white with the nation's coat of arms in the centre? A: SAN MARINO
Q: In the game of Scrabble how many blank files are there? A: TWO
Q: Whom did Valerie Solanas shoot in 1968? A: (Andy) WARHOL
Q: What is the all-weather racecourse in Essex which opened in 2008 and went into administration less than a year later? A: GREAT LEIGHS
Q: "Which of the United States is known as the ""Garden"" state?" A: NEW JERSEY
Q: The Italian dish carpaccio was originally made with which meat? A: BEEF
Q: Which small European country's flag is divided horizontally blue over red with a yellow crown in the top left corner? A: LIECHENSTEIN
Q: What is the name of the ruling house of Monaco? A: GRIMALDI
Q: Which lion did Hercules kill as one of his twelve labours? A: NEMEAN
Q: In which year did George the Fourth become king of the United Kingdom? A: 1820
Q: Which cleric won the 1984 Nobel Prize for Peace? A: (Desmond) TUTU
Q: "What type of motor cycle did Steve McQueen ride in the film "" The Great Escape""?" A: TRIUMPH
Q: What is the name of the ruling house of Sweden? A: BERNADOTTE
Q: Who, in Greek myth, killed the gorgon Medusa? A: PERSEUS
Q: What is the collective noun for cockroaches? A: INTRUSION
Q: Which religious leader won the 1989 Nobel Prize for Peace? A: DALAI LAMA
Q: "Which type of car did Steve McQueen drive in the film ""Bullitt""?" A: MUSTANG
Q: Which US President, along with Queen Elizabeth ,opened the St. Lawrence Seaway in June 1959? A: (Dwight D) EISENHOWER
Q: What is the desert that occupies the southern part of Israel? A: NEGEV
Q: In which century did the Venerable Bede die? A: EIGHTH
Q: Which country were the first winners of FIFA's Women's World Cup? A: UNITED STATES
Q: "Which character in Shakespeare ""was more sinned against than sinning""?" A: KING LEAR
Q: With which instrument is the British virtuoso Natalie Klein principally associated? A: (Violin)CELLO
Q: "Who appeared on the first cover of ""Playboy"" magazine?" A: Marilyn MONROE
Q: "Who had a UK No.1 album, in 2002, with ""Escapology""?" A: (Robbie) WILLIAMS
Q: Which saint, who died in 612, is the traditional founder of Glasgow? A: ST KENTIGERN or ST.MUNGO
Q: "Which character in Shakespeare ""loved not wisely but too well""?" A: OTHELLO
Q: Who, in 1954, were the first winners of Rugby League's World Cup? A: GREAT BRITAIN
Q: With which instrument is jazz musician Earl Hines principally associated? A: PIANO
Q: Which ice-cream business was founded by Rueben and Rose Mattus? A: HAAGEN DAZS
Q: Steve Brookstein won the first series of which TV show in 2004? A: THE X FACTOR
Q: In classification of living creatures, which level comes between Class and Family, for example Primates? A: ORDER
Q: Who, between 1859-1885, composed the four Mephisto Waltzes? A: Franz Liszt
Q: "Who played the Prince Regent in ""Blackadder the Third""?" A: Hugh Laurie
Q: In the Old Testament, whose wife was Zipporah? A: Moses
Q: Which US author wrote a series of novels about the Women's Murder Club? A: James Patterson
Q: "Who, in 1887, composed the symphonic poem ""Capriccio Espagnol""?" A: Rimsky-Korsakov
Q: How many pods does the London Eye have? A: Thirty-two
Q: Lulu Guinness and Anya Hindmarch are principally associated with which fashion accessory? A: Handbags
Q: In ancient Greece, whose wife was Xanthippe? A: Socrates
Q: "Who wrote the musical ""We Will Rock You"" in collaboration with Brian May?" A: Ben Elton
Q: Fanny Brawne was betrothed to which English romantic poet? A: John Keats
Q: Which US author wrote a series of novels about the Camel Club? A: David Baldacci
Q: Luke Howard proposed which type of weather nomenclature in 1802? A: Cloud Types
Q: In which country will the 2015 Rugby Union World Cup be played? A: England
Q: Which European country's flag consists of three horizontal bands of white, green, and red? A: Bulgaria
Q: Which newspaper was formerly called The Daily Herald'? A: The Sun
Q: In which English county is the village of Tolpuddle? A: Dorset
Q: What is the thin muscular sheet that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity? A: (Thoracic) Diaphragm
Q: Which country will host the 2016 European Nations football finals? A: France
Q: Of what is brontology the study? A: Thunder
Q: Which South American country's flag consists of three vertical stripes of red, white, and red? A: Peru
Q: An ARP detachment leader called Thomas Alderson was the first recipient of which award? A: George Cross
Q: The 'Daily Sketch' was taken over and merged with which other newspaper in 1971? A: Daily Mail
Q: Which car company manufacturers the Juke model? A: Nissan
Q: Where in the human body is the trapezium bone? A: Wrist
Q: Since 1971, which US Federal holiday has held been on the second Monday in October? A: Columbus Day
Q: In Greek mythology who was the muse of comedy? A: Thalia
Q: What other, non-scientific, name is given to the extinct smilodon? A: Sabre-toothed Tiger
Q: What do Ballinsloe in Co. Galway and Appleby in Cumbria have in common? A: Horse Fairs
Q: In drama, which character says 'parting is such sweet sorrow'? A: Juliet
Q: In which London building would you find the Jericho Parlour and the Jerusalem Chamber? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: "Whose only British No. 1 hit was ""Move Closer"" in 1985?" A: Phyllis Nelson
Q: On what date is United Nations Day? A: 24th October
Q: In Greek mythology was the muse of astronomy? A: Urania
Q: Which island is known as the 'Pearl of the Caribbean'? A: Cuba
Q: Which is the only breed of Irish pony? A: Connemara
Q: In 1565, which centre for commerce was created by Sir Thomas Gresham? A: The Royal Exchange
Q: In film, which character says 'tomorrow is another day'? A: Scarlett O'Hara
Q: The vibrations of which element formed the basis of the first atomic clock? A: Caesium
Q: The Ashanti people, and region, are a part of which country? A: Ghana
Q: "Who portrayed Johnny Cash in the 2005 film ""Walk the Line""?" A: (Joaquin) Phoenix
Q: Which king called the Model Parliament in 1295? A: Edward the First
Q: The Tempranillo grape most famously makes which wine? A: Rioja
Q: In which constellation is the Horsehead Nebula? A: Orion
Q: Which English footballer was the first to be transferred for £1 million in 1979? A: Trevor Francis
Q: Which element, atomic number 18, is named after the Greek for 'lazy' or 'the inactive one'? A: Argon
Q: Which Irish author was Sir Henry Irving's business manager? A: Bram Stoker
Q: "Who played Richard Nixon in the 1995 film ""Nixon""?" A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: Queen Victoria assumed which title on 1st January 1877? A: Empress of India
Q: Which footballer has played and scored in every season in the Premiership? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: In which constellation is the Crab Nebula? A: Taurus
Q: As whom were John Belushi and Dan Ackroyd known in the title of a 1980 film? A: The Blues Brothers
Q: How is the cocktail consisting of vodka, cranberry juice and grapefruit juice known? A: Sea Breeze
Q: What colour coats are worn in Pontin's holiday camps? A: Blue
Q: "Mendelssohn's ""Wedding March"" was composed as incidental music to which Shakespeare play?" A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: "In which opera does Wagner's Bridal Chorus (popularly known as ""Here comes the bride"") feature?" A: Lohengrin
Q: Near which city is Shakespeare's 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' set? A: Athens
Q: Appropriately, which animal appears on the flag of the city of Berlin? A: Bear
Q: In which city was the artist Vermeer born in 1632? It features in many of his paintings. A: Delft
Q: What Italian city is called Leghorn in English? A: Livorno
Q: Which state did John Kennedy represent as senator? A: Massachusetts
Q: Which state did Bill Clinton represent as senator? A: Arkansas
Q: For which French rugby union club does Jonny Wilkinson play? A: Toulon
Q: For which Italian side did Graeme Souness play from 1984 to 1986? A: Sampdoria
Q: Who was the English archaeologist (1874-1939) noted as the primary discoverer of Tutankhamen's tomb? A: Howard Carter
Q: In which county is Hay on Wye of bookshops fame? A: Powys
Q: Which prison features in Dickens's 1855 novel 'Little Dorrit'? A: Marshalsea
Q: Who wrote the 1952 play 'The Crucible'? A: Arthur Miller
Q: Into which element is Hydrogen converted in the Sun? A: Helium
Q: To which other element does Carbon 14 convert with time? A: Nitrogen
Q: On which river does St Petersburg lie? A: Neva
Q: On which river does Philadelphia lie? A: Delaware
Q: Who did Bill Shankly succeed as manager of Liverpool FC? A: Phil Taylor
Q: In the 1985 film which actress was 'Desperately Seeking Susan'? A: Rosanna Arquette
Q: In the 1986 film 'Hannah and her Sisters' who played Hannah? A: Mia Farrow
Q: In which 1987 film did Robert De Niro portray the gangster Al Capone? A: The Untouchables
Q: Which 1965 Bob Dylan album features the songs `Mr Tambourine Man', 'It's All Over Now, Baby Blue' and 'Maggie's Farm'? A: Bringing It All Back Home
Q: Which 1984 Bruce Springsteen album features the songs 'Dancing In The Dark', 'Glory Days' and 'My Hometown'? A: Born In The USA
Q: What is the county town of County Kerry? A: Tralee
Q: What is the county town of County Mayo? A: Castlebar
Q: In which city did the final of the 2010/11 UEFA Champions League take place? A: London
Q: Which character in Eastenders is played by the actress Cheryl Fergison? A: Heather
Q: Which character in Coronation Street is played by the actress Katherine Kelly? A: Becky
Q: Which Egyptian president was toppled from power due to popular unrest in 2011? A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: Which American authoress wrote the novels 'Ethan Frome' and 'The Age of Innocence'? A: Edith Wharton
Q: Which American author wrote the novels 'Sophie's Choice' and 'The Confessions of Nat Turner'? A: William Styron
Q: In which 1973 Terence Malick film did Martin Sheen and Sissy Spacek play a couple of psychotic murderers? A: Badlands
Q: In Arthurian legend, who returns Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake? A: Sir Bedivere
Q: In Arthurian legend, who was the father of King Arthur? A: Uther Pendragon
Q: Which surname connects a current cabinet minister, a Formula 1 World Champion of the 1970s and a former Liverpool striker? A: Hunt
Q: Which surname connects a current member of the cabinet, an Open Golf Champion and a former Leeds United striker? A: Clarke
Q: Who composed the 1830 work `Symphonie Fantastique'? A: Hector Berlioz
Q: Which American state's flag contains an image of a bear? A: California
Q: Which American state's flag contains an image of a bison? A: Wyoming
Q: Who created the Ancient Roman detective Marcus Didius Falco? A: Lindsay Davis
Q: Who is the current manager of West Bromwich Albion football club? A: Roy Hodgson
Q: Who is the current coach of the English national cricket team? A: Andy Flower
Q: Who was the unsuccessful Republican nominee for the US Presidency in the 1996 Presidential Election? A: Bob Dole
Q: Who was the unsuccessful Democrat nominee for the US Presidency in the 1984 Presidential Election? A: Walter Mondale
Q: What is the Christian name of the female singer Duffy? A: Aimee
Q: Which female singer's surname is Adkins? A: Adele
Q: What is the Estonian name for Estonia? A: Eesti
Q: What 3-word Latin phrase means an indispensable condition or action? A: Sine Qua Non
Q: The UK's highest recorded temperature of 38.5 degrees centigrade occurred on 10-8-2003, in which county? A: Kent
Q: Which was the last Horse.to win the English Triple Crown? A: NIJINSKY
Q: Who owned the Rolls Razor washing machine company which crashed in 1963? A: JOHN BLOOM
Q: Who became the first Chancellor of West Germany in 1949 and was a founder of The Christian Democrats? A: KONRAD ADENAUER
Q: In 1994 who was the last Formula One driver to be killed in a racing accident on the track? A: AYRTON SENNA
Q: Who directed the Oscar winning film, The Kings Speech? A: TOM HOOPER
Q: Howard Hughes designed the underwired bra for Jane Russell for which film? A: THE OUTLAW
Q: Which film won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in April 2011? A: TOY STORY 3
Q: Who played Mo Mowlam in the 2009 television drama, Mo? A: JULIE WALTERS
Q: "Who for 17 years from 1976 presented ""One Man and His Dog?" A: PHIL DRABBLE
Q: Robert Diamond is the Chief Executive of which British bank? A: BARCLAYS
Q: Which Carry On film Starred Phil Silvers? A: CARRY ON FOLLOW THAT CAMEL
Q: Which Archers character was killed in 2010 when he fell from the roof of Lower Loxley? A: NIGEL PARGETTER
Q: Which is the birth country of Archbishop John Sentamu? A: UGANDA
Q: Which sport is featured in the 1951 film, Follow The Sun? A: GOLF
Q: Which TV celebrity is married to Charles Saatchi? A: NIGELLA LAWSON
Q: Which BBC journalist has been revealed as the secret son of the late Peter Woods? A: JUSTIN WEBB
Q: Which US City is not part of any US State? A: WASHINGTON DC
Q: Which BBC Local Radio Station began as Radio Blackburn in 1971? A: RADIO LANCASHIRE
Q: Which Member of The SDP failed to win the 1981 Warrington By-Election? A: ROY JENKINS
Q: The Urbis Centre in Manchester is soon to be the home of which national museum? A: NATIONAL FOOTBALL MUSEUM
Q: Who was General Secretary of SOGAT from 1983 to 1985, the first woman to lead a major trade union? A: BRENDA DEAN
Q: Munich is the capital of which German state? A: BAVARIA
Q: What was the name of the juryless courts established in Northern Ireland in 1972, where the cases were heard by a single judge? A: DIPLOCK COURTS
Q: Which Trade Unionist was appointed the first Minister of Technology in 1964? A: FRANK COUSINS
Q: Which Pacific Island is known as Rapa Nui to the local inhabitants? A: EASTER ISLAND
Q: Before his election, Pope Benedict XVI was Archbishop of which City? A: MUNICH
Q: When Sunderland won the 1973 FA Cup, under Bob Stokoe, who did they defeat in the final? A: LEEDS UNITED
Q: Which was the only one of his own films that Hitchcock ever remade? A: THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH
Q: Name the British inventor of the jet engine? A: SIR FRANK WHITTLE
Q: Which racecourse hosts The Lincoln Handicap? A: DONCASTER
Q: Give the name of the restaurant charity formed by Jamie Oliver to help disadvantaged young people? A: FIFTEEN
Q: Which wood is traditionally used in manufacture of gun stocks? A: WALNUT
Q: Who was the only posthumous World Motor Racing Champion? A: JOCHEN RINDT
Q: Which poet wrote the children's fantasy novel, The Box of Delights? A: JOHN MASEFIELD
Q: Name the TV chat show hosted by John Freeman and later by Jeremy Isaacs, which ran on BBC television 1958 to 62 and 89 to 98 with one guest each week? A: FACE TO FACE
Q: Snooker cues are traditionally made from which wood? A: ASH
Q: Apart from The Brecon Beacons and Snowdonia, which is the other National Park in Wales? A: THE PEMBROKESHIRE COAST
Q: "Clare Grogan, singer with ""Altered Images"" first found fame as an actress in which film?" A: GREGORY'S GIRL
Q: Who plays Nelson Mandela in the 2009 film Invictus? A: MORGAN FREEMAN
Q: Who directed the 2009 film Invictus? A: CLINT EASTWOOD
Q: What name is given to a castrated chicken? A: A CAPON
Q: Apart from George, who was the only other Beatle to appear at the 1971 Concert for Bangladesh at Madison Square? A: RINGO STARR
Q: Where in London was the venue of the first FA Cup Final in 1872? A: THE OVAL
Q: "Which pop group was named after a fictional band in the film ""A Clockwork Orange""?" A: HEAVEN 17
Q: Which film about the founding of Facebook won the Best Motion Picture Drama at the 2011 Golden Globe awards? A: THE SOCIAL NETWORK
Q: Who plays King George VI in the award winning film The King's Speech? A: COLIN FIRTH
Q: In which radio comedy series does Andy Hamilton play The Devil? A: OLD HARRY'S GAME
Q: What do Nielsen Ratings measure? A: TV audiences
Q: Graham Napier has hit a record 16 sixes in an innings both in a Twenty20 match in 2008 and a County Championship match in 2011, for which county does he play? A: Essex
Q: What is the capital of the new country. South Sudan? A: Juba
Q: Terry Deary and Peter Hepplewhite write which series of entertaining and educational books for youngsters? A: Horrible Histories
Q: Who plays the part of detective DI Richard Poole in the TV series `Death in Paradise'? A: Ben Miller
Q: In November 2011, 'Piccadilly Circus, London', one of the very few paintings of London by which artist, sold at auction for £5.6 million? A: LS Lowry
Q: Which group had a 1980 hit with 'Turning Japanese'? A: The Vapors
Q: Where in London is the Bomber Command Memorial to be built in 2012? A: Green Park
Q: Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, is currently head of state of which country? A: Egypt
Q: Who composed the ballet 'Ocean's Kingdom' first performed in 2011? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Who played Fu Manchu in the 1960s films based on the books by Sax Rohmer? A: Christopher Lee
Q: How would any one of Anne Hegarty, Mark Labbett, Shaun Wallace and Paul Sinha be described on a TV programme? A: The Chaser
Q: Marton, Sally Brass and Christopher Nubbles are characters in which Dickens novel? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: Formed in 2001, Myleene Klass, Kym Marsh and Suzanne Shaw were members of which pop group? A: Hear'Say
Q: Which compound has a ring structure and the formula C6H6? A: Benzene
Q: What name is given to the pilgrimage of Muslims to Mecca? A: Hajj
Q: Name the Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan from where Russian space missions are launched? A: Baikonur
Q: Klaus Voorman created the cover of which 1966 Beatles album? A: Revolver
Q: Who composed the oratorio 'The Dream of Gerontius'? A: Edward Elgar
Q: One of the most widespread of all butterflies, Vanessa Cardui has orange-brown wings with black and white corners. How is it commonly known? A: Painted Lady
Q: In the Bible to where was Saul heading when he was blinded by the light and converted to Christianity? A: Damascus
Q: The 'Telegraph & Argus' is a local daily newspaper based in which city? A: Bradford
Q: "Which early US President said ""if you want something that you've never had, you must be willing to do something that you've never done""?" A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: What name is given to the place of worship in the Sikh religion? A: Gurdwara
Q: What is the name of the site in Australia used to test and launch missiles and spacecraft? A: Woomera
Q: Richard Hamilton, who died in September 2011, was famous for the design of the cover of which Beatles album? A: 'The Beatles'
Q: Who composed the cantata 'Belshazzar's Feast', first performed in 1931? A: William Walton
Q: What is the common name of the butterfly 'Apatura Iris', the male is the most beautiful found in the British Isles. It has black/brown wings with white bands and a coloured sheen that gives it its name? A: Purple Emperor
Q: In the Bible parable of the Good Samaritan, to where was the traveller heading when he was attacked? A: Jericho
Q: "Which British Prime Minister said ""in the case of war, it's not who is right but who is left""?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: In a series of films based on the books by Donald Hamilton, who played the character Matt Helm? A: Dean Martin
Q: Who, along with Rachel Riley and Susie Dent, will host the 2012 series of Countdown? A: Nick Hewer
Q: Squaw Valley, the venue for the 1960 Winter Olympic Games, is in which US state? A: California
Q: Nadgett, Elijah Pogram and Tom Pinch appear in which Dickens novel? A: Martin Chuzzlewit
Q: In the early 1970s, Lynne Paul and Eve Graham were the lead singers in which group? A: New Seekers
Q: In Greek mythology, who is the twin sister of Helenus? A: Cassandra
Q: Which group had a 1981 hit with 'Tainted Love'? A: Soft Cell
Q: What name is given to the migration of a solvent from a dilute solution to a more concentrated solution across a semi-permeable membrane? A: Osmosis
Q: In a TV advert, Mr T (from the programme 'The A-Team') takes a tank on to a football pitch to promote which brand? A: Snickers
Q: Who became the third wife of Paul McCartney in October 2011? A: Nancy Shevell
Q: In which Disney film do the fairies Flora, Fauna and Merryweather appear? A: Sleeping Beauty
Q: Francesca Simon writes which series of books for young readers? A: Horrid Henry
Q: Who played the detective Aurelio Zen in the BBC TV series of January 2011? A: Rufus Sewell
Q: In which town was the 'Comedy Carpet' unveiled in October 2011? A: Blackpool
Q: The new postcode E20 has been introduced to cover which development? A: Olympic Park
Q: Which car company produce a model called the 'Kangoo'? A: Renault
Q: Give either of the forenames of the artist LS Lowry. A: Laurence Stephen
Q: Which team won the first Heineken Cup in 1996? A: Toulouse
Q: "Who in athletics was known as the ""Flying Housewife?" A: Fanny Blankers-Koen
Q: Who wrote the music for the 2002 film The Hours? A: Philip Glass
Q: Who wrote the music for the 1993 film The Piano? A: Michael Nyman
Q: In which year did men first walk on the moon? A: 1969
Q: Which year was National Service abolished in the UK? A: 1960
Q: Which British Prime Minister's wife was a published poet? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which politician faked his own death in Florida in 1974? A: John Stonehouse
Q: In which year did Elvis Presley get married? A: 1967
Q: In which hospital was the first heart and lung transplant performed by Sir Magdi Yacoub? A: Harefield Hospital
Q: What is the name of the Chilean mine in Copiapo, Chile, where 33 miners were trapped in 2010? A: San Jose
Q: Who was the first host of the TV show Pets Win Prizes? A: Danny Baker
Q: In which TV soap is there a garage called the Arches? A: Eastenders
Q: Ben Lomond and Baldwin are varieties of which fruit? A: Blackcurrant
Q: Which vegetable has the Latin name brassica oleracea gemmifera? A: Brussels Sprout
Q: Where is Charles Darwin buried? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: Where were the Bee Gees twins Maurice and Robin Gibb born? A: Isle of Man
Q: In which sea is the Great Barrier Reef? A: Coral Sea
Q: In which ocean is the Gulf Stream? A: Atlantic
Q: Which fictional girls' school did Ronald Searle create? A: St Trinian's
Q: What is the name of The Vicar of Dibley? A: Geraldine Grainger
Q: What is the name of the heroine in Steig Larsson's Millennium Trilogy? A: Lisbeth Salander
Q: What do the cities of Turku in Finland and Tallinn in Estonia have in common in 2011? A: European Capitals of Culture
Q: What was the first full-length animated film? A: Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
Q: How many points are scored when you kick a goal in Gaelic football? A: 3
Q: Which castle guards the main route through Purbeck Hills? A: Corfe Castle
Q: The Pyg and the Miners' tracks and the Watkin Path are routes up which mountain? A: Snowdon
Q: How are Bob Ferris and Terry Collier known collectively? A: The Likely Lads
Q: Who wrote The Iceman Cometh, and disowned his daughter for marrying Charlie Chaplin? A: Eugene O'Neill
Q: Which protein is a major component of hair, skin, nails and tooth enamel? A: Keratin
Q: What type of creature is the Australian currawong? A: Bird
Q: What is the title of a novel by A J Cronin, a ballet by Kenneth Macmillan and has the Latin name cercis canadensis? A: The Judas Tree
Q: Running for 46 miles, which line of the London Underground has the longest track? A: Central
Q: In which town in Greater Manchester did Harold Shipman practise as a GP before murdering at least 15 of his patients? A: Hyde
Q: Which BBC police series was about a female inspector in the town of Hartley? A: Juliet Bravo
Q: Which BBC nightly news programme was presented by Cliff Michelmore, with Fyfe Robertson and Magnus Magnusson? A: Tonight
Q: Who changed his name from Gideon, and became MP for Tatton in 2001? A: George Osborne
Q: Who was wrongly convicted in 2001 of the murder of Jill Dando? A: Barry George
Q: Which US general had an early career as a teacher, was involved in conflicts in Mexico, Cuba and Europe and had a WWII tank named after him? A: John Pershing
Q: The tune of the British national anthem appears within which composer's Jubilee Overture? A: Carl Maria von Weber
Q: Which composer (1822-1890) wrote a symphony in D and a symphonic poem called Le Chasseur Maudit (The Accursed Huntsman)? A: Cesar Franck
Q: In which European country is Lake Inari? A: Finland
Q: What is a haboob in the Sahara? A: A sand or dust storm
Q: From which country does Red Stripe lager originally come? A: Jamaica
Q: Britain, USA, Japan, Germany and France hold the five permanent executive directorships of which financial organisation? A: The World Bank
Q: Who was stripped of his Saudi Arabian nationality in 1994, being considered a threat to the ruling House of Saud? A: Osama Bin Laden
Q: Which RAF base is located on Cyprus? A: RAF Akrotiri
Q: What is the English version of the Russian forename Vasily? A: Basil
Q: Death of a Princess, a TV drama based on a real event, caused a diplomatic incident between Britain and which country in 1980? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: What unusual event happened in Britain on 11th August 1999? A: Total Solar Eclipse
Q: In what year (5 years either way) was the British Open Golf Championship first held? A: 1860
Q: Easter Island is a territory of which country? A: Chile
Q: Which artist painted 'The Opening of the Fifth Seal' in about 1610? A: El Greco
Q: Which son of King Agenor is the reputed founder of the city of Thebes in Ancient Greece? A: Cadmus
Q: Who was the first British author to win the Nobel prize for Literature, in 1907? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: In the Bible, who was the elder daughter of Laban who became the first wife of Jacob and the mother of Dinah? A: Leah
Q: Who in 1711 wrote the line 'A little learning is a dangerous thing'? A: Alexander Pope
Q: Which TV cartoon series is about CIA agent Stan Smith and his family? A: American Dad
Q: Who won the Oscar for Best Actor in 2010 for his role as Otis Blake in the film 'Crazy Heart'? A: Jeff Bridges
Q: Which British group released the albums `Definitely Maybe' and 'Be Here Now' in the 1990s? A: Oasis
Q: Which Pope launched the first Crusade in 1095? A: Urban II
Q: Which Italian composed the 1832 opera 'The Elixir of Love' (L'elisir d'amore')? A: Donizetti
Q: What is the capital of Benin? A: Porto Novo
Q: Which English king was born at Dunfermline Palace in 1600? A: Charles I
Q: In what year (5 years either way) was the US Open Golf Championship first held? A: 1895
Q: Which artist painted 'Allegory on the Blessings of Peace' in about 1630? A: Rubens
Q: According to Virgil, who was the reputed founder of the city of Carthage? A: Dido
Q: In the Bible, who was the servant of Sarah who became the concubine of Abraham and mother of Ishmael? A: Hagar
Q: Who was the first Irish poet to win the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1923? A: W B Yeats
Q: What is the name of the disc shaped region beyond the orbit of Neptune, discovered in 1992, which contains dwarf planets and small icy bodies? A: The Kuiper Belt
Q: Who was the only US President to serve two non-consecutive terms of office? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: Who plays the part of Charles Xavier in the 2011 film `X-Men First Class'? A: James McAvoy
Q: Which British Prime Minister wrote a novel 'Savrola' in 1898, while serving as an army officer in India? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Which English crime writer coined the 'Guinness is good for you' slogan while working as a copywriter? A: Dorothy L Sayers
Q: Which horse, trained by Jonjo O'Neil, won the 2010 Grand National? A: Don't Push It
Q: Which TV cartoon series features the Griffin family of Quahog, Rhode Island? A: Family Guy
Q: Who won the Best Actress Oscar in 2010 for her role as Leigh Anne Tuohy in the film 'The Blind Side'? A: Sandra Bullock
Q: Which British group released the albums 'Pablo Honey', 'The Bands' and 'OK Computer' in the 1990s? A: Radiohead
Q: What is the name of the Crusader castle which is now a Unesco World Heritage site, which lies west of Horns in Syria? A: Crac des Chevaliers
Q: Which German composed the 1911 opera 'Der Rosenkavalier'? A: Richard Strauss
Q: In which Irish county would you find the Cliffs of Moher? A: Clare
Q: What are the elements with atomic numbers from 57 to 71 in the periodic table called? A: Lanthanides
Q: Which American Football team won the 45th Superbowl on 6 February 2011? A: Green Bay Packers
Q: Which was the first Liverpool group to have their first three singles reach number one in the charts? A: Gerry and the Pacemakers
Q: Named after a-Dutch astronomer; what is the name of the spherical cloud of comets, which lies about 1 light year from the sun? A: The Oort Cloud
Q: Who was the US President who sought a third term of office when he ran as a Bull Moose or Progressive candidate? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: Who won the 2010 Wimbledon Men's Singles title? A: Rafael Nadal
Q: Who plays the part Green Lantern in the 2011 film 'Green Lantern'? A: Ryan Reynolds
Q: Which Booker Prize winner coined the advertising slogan 'Naughty by nice'? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: Which horse, trained by Sir Michael Stoute, won the 2010 Epsom Derby? A: Workforce
Q: In what year did Yasir Arafat die? A: 2004
Q: Who is the current Foreign Secretary? A: William Hague
Q: Which was the second Liverpool group to have their first three singles reach number one in the charts? A: Frankie Goes To Hollywood
Q: Who wrote the screenplay for 'You Only Live Twice'? A: Roald Dahl
Q: In which Irish county would you find the Hill of Tara? A: Meath
Q: What were first used in the Chesterfield Stakes at Newmarket on 11 July 1965? A: Starting Stalls
Q: Who was the only female candidate in the 2010 Labour Party leadership contest? A: Diane Abbott
Q: Which is the only marine species where the male gives birth to the young? A: SEA HORSE
Q: Which car company manufactured the 'Renown' and 'Mayflower' models? A: TRIUMPH
Q: "Which Spanish City was known by the Romans as ""Hispalis""?" A: SEVILLE
Q: What is Marks & Spencer's casual men's wear label? A: BLUE HARBOUR
Q: "Which fashion designer born in New York introduced the ""Polo"" label in 1967?" A: RALPH LAUREN
Q: Who said after losing a libel case against Robert Maxwell, 'I've just given a fat cheque to a fat Czech'? A: IAN HISLOP
Q: Which card game takes its name from the Spanish word for basket? A: CANASTA
Q: Which City in France was known to the Romans as 'Argentoratum'? A: STRASBOURG
Q: What is the more common name for the bone the furcula? A: WISHBONE
Q: Which landlocked country in Africa was formerly called Nyasaland? A: MALAWI
Q: Which bird is the largest bird in the crow family? A: RAVEN
Q: Which is the most southerly golf course in Britain that the British Open can be played at? A: ROYAL ST GEORGES
Q: Which British car company manufactured the Javelin and Jupiter models? A: JOWETT
Q: Which Scottish port lies on Loch Ryan? A: STRANRAER
Q: In which European City is the Mariinsky Ballet based? A: ST PETERSBURG
Q: Which Roy Orbison song featured in the 'Only Fools and Horses' episode called 'Stage Fright'? A: CRYIN'
Q: Which American lost in a play off in 2009 British Open (golf)? A: TOM WATSON
Q: The Somme is in which French region? A: PICARDY
Q: Which musical instrument is Anne-Sophie Mutter famous for playing? A: VIOLIN
Q: John of Gaunt was the uncle of which English King? A: RICHARD II
Q: Which of the Goodies wore union jack underwear? A: TIM BROOKE TAYLOR
Q: In French cookery, a dubarry sauce contains which vegetable? A: CAULIFLOWER
Q: Where, in literature can you find Willy Nilly, Organ Morgan and Bessie Bighead? A: UNDER MILK WOOD
Q: Which other flag was raised on Mount Everest alongside the flags of Great Britain and Nepal by Hillary and Tensing in 1953? A: UNITED NATIONS
Q: Which planet was discovered in 1930? A: PLUTO
Q: Which Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced Premium Bonds? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: The flag of which of the United States of America incorporates a Union Jack? A: HAWAII
Q: How many test centuries did Don Bradman score? A: 29
Q: Which German footballer won the Golden Boot at the 2010 World Cup? A: THOMAS MULLER
Q: 'The Sun is God' are reputedly the famous last words of which British artist? A: J M W TURNER
Q: The Latin 'Dunelm' relates to which Church of England diocese? A: DURHAM
Q: In which year between the World Wars did Britain go off the Gold Standard? A: 1931
Q: From 1881 Russian Jews and their property were subjected to periodic mob attacks. What were these attacks called? A: POGROMS
Q: Which present day State of America was known officially as Indian Territory? A: OKLAHOMA
Q: Which actor played Dr Who between 1974 and 1980? A: TOM BAKER
Q: The artists Beardsley, Klimt, and Tiffany were leading figures in which art movement? A: ART NOUVEAU
Q: In World War One what were Talbots, Pups and Camels? A: AEROPLANES
Q: In which year did Dr Who first appear on our television screens played by William Hartnell? A: 1963
Q: "Which artistic style is described as ""The exploration of colour and technique to capture the transience of light""?" A: IMPRESSIONISM
Q: PNG is the international car registration for which country? A: PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Q: Before becoming an entertainer, what was the profession of George Formby? A: JOCKEY
Q: What city is the capital of Slovenia? A: Ljubliana
Q: In July 2011, which local judge led the public enquiry into News International phone hacking affair? A: Sir Brian Leveson
Q: "Which Shakespearian character's last words were ""The Rest is Silence""?" A: Hamlet
Q: Which chief executive of News International resigned in July 2011 over the phone hacking scandal? A: Rebekah Brooks
Q: Which seaport was the former capital of Egypt? A: Alexandria
Q: """Either the wallpaper goes or I do"" are the reported last words of which writer in 1900?" A: Oscar Wilde
Q: In the traditional rhyme on which day did Solomon Grundy die? A: Saturday
Q: In the traditional rhyme, who killed Cock Robin? A: The Sparrow
Q: What was the pen name of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Which sea creature is the world's largest invertebrate? A: Giant Squid
Q: Which country produces Dao wines? A: Portugal
Q: Which TV comedy series was set on Craggy Island? A: Father Ted
Q: In which year did the pound note cease to be legal tender in England? A: 1988
Q: The Scilly Isles are under the authority of which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: At which race circuit did Ayrton Senna die, in 1994? A: Imola
Q: What is the administrative centre of Cornwall? A: Truro
Q: In what year did the farthing cease to be legal tender in England? A: 1960
Q: "Which comedian/entertainer had the catchphrase ""You Lucky People""?" A: Tommy Trinder
Q: At which racecourse is the Eclipse Stakes run annually? A: Sandown Park
Q: Which comedian/entertainer was known as Bighearted Arthur? A: Arthur Askey
Q: A Sunday edition of which daily newspaper was launched in January 1990? A: Independent on Sunday
Q: At which racecourse is the Royal Hunt Cup held annually? A: Ascot
Q: What type of camera did Edwin Land develop? A: Polaroid
Q: What type of creature is a hairstreak? A: Butterfly
Q: What is the most north easterly of the contiguous US states? A: Maine
Q: What was Abba's only Number One single in the USA? A: Dancing Queen
Q: What constituency did John Major represent while he was Prime Minister? A: Huntingdon
Q: On leaving Number 10 Margaret Thatcher became which Baroness of where? A: Kesteven
Q: What was Abba's last Number One single in the UK? A: Super Trouper
Q: "Which legendary actress spoke for the first time on screen in the 1930 film ""Anna Christie""?" A: Greta Garbo
Q: Which English king was threatened by the Rye House Plot? A: Charles II
Q: Titan is the largest moon of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: Which English king was killed by Walter Tyrell? A: William II
Q: How many moons does the planet Mars have? A: Two
Q: "Who wrote the book ""The French Lieutenant's Woman"" in 1969?" A: John Fowles
Q: In which English city can Saint David's Railway Station be found? A: Exeter
Q: How many years are there in a Platinum Anniversary? A: 70
Q: The Brandy Kirsch is distilled from which fruit? A: Cherries
Q: "The 1956 film ""Forbidden Planet"" was based on which Shakespeare play?" A: The Tempest
Q: If you were born between October 24th and November 218'what star sign would you come under? A: Scorpio
Q: Which 1961 film musical was based on Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet? A: West Side Story
Q: Which US city, originally named Fort Duquesne, is now named after a British Prime Minister? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Which US President was nicknamed 'The Little Magician'? A: MARTIN VAN BUREN
Q: Who was the first national hunt jockey to ride 1000 winners? A: STAN MELLOR
Q: Which Italian region produces the wine Chianti? A: TUSCANY
Q: What was the surname of the only grandfather and grandson to become US President? A: HARRISON
Q: Which American firm manufactured the 'Dakota' transport aircraft? A: DOUGLAS
Q: The deadly poison, Ricin, is produced from which plant? A: CASTOR OIL PLANT
Q: Castor is the Latin name for which mammal? A: BEAVER
Q: The Aberdare mountains are in which African country? A: KENYA
Q: Which architect invented the Geodesic Dome? A: BUCKMINSTER FULLER
Q: Fullerite is a man-made allotrope of which chemical element? A: CARBON
Q: In which building is Charles Darwin buried? A: WESTMINSTER ABBEY
Q: Malin Head, the most northerly point in Ireland is in which county? A: DONEGAL
Q: What is the most southerly country in Scotland? A: DUMFRIES AND GALLOWAY
Q: In Greek mythology who was the mother of Achilles? A: THETIS
Q: In the bible who was the sister of Moses who concealed him in the bulrushes? A: MIRIAM
Q: Who rode Shergar to victory in the 1981 Derby? A: WALTER SWINBURN
Q: On which horse did Lester Piggott ride his last Derby winner in 1984? A: TEENOSO
Q: """Suicide is Painless"" is the theme music to which film and long running TV series?" A: M.A.S.H.
Q: "The music of which classical composer was used as the theme of ""The Lone Ranger""?" A: ROSSINI
Q: Which bird is the second tallest after the ostrich? A: EMU
Q: Marie Curie discovered radium and which other element? A: POLONIUM
Q: Roy Fitzgerald was the real name of which Hollywood actor? A: ROCK HUDSON
Q: From which ballet company did Rudolph Nuryev defect to the west? A: KIROV
Q: Rudolph Hess has the distinction of being the last prisoner in Spandau and which other historical prison? A: THE TOWER OF LONDON
Q: In which novel is the calendar altered from AD to AF (after ford)? A: BRAVE NEW WORLD
Q: """O Brave new world that has such people in it"" is from which Shakespeare play?" A: THE TEMPEST
Q: Which poet served a sentence in Reading Gaol? A: OSCAR WILDE
Q: What was the name of the punk character played by Kenny Everett? A: SID SNOT
Q: USA - what is the state capital of Wisconsin? A: MADISON
Q: Which stretch of water separates Cuba and Haiti? A: THE WINDWARD PASSAGE
Q: Java and the Malayan Peninsula are separated by which stretch of water? A: STRAIT OF MALACCA
Q: "The game of ""conkers"" goes back to Roman times, using what?" A: SHELLS
Q: What is the state capital of Kentucky? A: FRANKFORT
Q: A Roman Legion consisted of six units known as what? A: COHORTS
Q: Pica Pica is the scientific name for which common bird? A: MAGPIE
Q: Sternus vulgaris is the scientific name for which common bird? A: STARLING
Q: 'Last of the Summer Wine' is the creation of which comic writer? A: ROY CLARKE
Q: What was the function of an Aquilifer in the Roman Army? A: STANDARD BEARER
Q: 'Out Of The Silent Planet' and 'The Screwtape Letters' are works of which author, better known for his children's books? A: C S LEWIS
Q: Frances Gumm was the real name of which famous actress? A: JUDY GARLAND
Q: 'This could be the start of a beautiful friendship' is the last line of which film? A: CASABLANCA
Q: 'Well, nobody's prefect 'is the last line of which film? A: SOME LIKE IT HOT
Q: In which country is the source of the Blue Nile? A: ETHIOPIA
Q: In which fictional land was it 'always winter but never Christmas'? A: NARNIA
Q: What was the first Department Store in London? A: SELFRIDGES
Q: John McEnroe was married to which film actress? A: TATUM O'NEAL
Q: In World War II who designed the Mosquito Fighter/Bomber? A: GEOFFREY DE HAVILLAND
Q: Which British athlete won the 100 m. at the 1924 Olympics? A: HAROLD ABRAHAMS
Q: Which palace in Spain takes its name from the colour of its sun dried red bricks? A: ALHAMBRA
Q: Who was the only British King to be crowned on the field of battle? A: HENRY VII
Q: Who played 'First Voice' in the original BBC radio production of 'UnderMilk Wood' (and also in the film version)? A: RICHARD BURTON
Q: What is the name of the mongoose in Rudyard Kipling' s 'The Jungle Book'? A: RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
Q: 'The Monkey Bread tree' is another name for which African tree? A: BAOBAB
Q: Musician Evelyn Rothwell (Lady Barbirolli) died in January 2008, what instrument did she play? A: OBOE
Q: Where, on the Baltic coast, was the German missile site where V1rockets were designed and built? A: PEENEMUNDE
Q: In the title of the detective story by Dorothy L Sayers, what are the 'Nine Tailors'? A: CHURCH BELLS
Q: What is the more common name for the landrail? A: CORNCRAKE
Q: 'Behind the Shades' is the autobiography of which controversial sports coach? A: DUNCAN FLETCHER
Q: In 1922, who replied 'Wonderful Things', when asked what he could see through a-hole in a wall? A: HOWARD CARTER
Q: In which children's TV programme, narrated by Derek Jacobi, would you see Iggle-Piggle and Upsy-Daisy? A: IN THE NIGHT GARDEN
Q: What is name of the piece of leather on which a barber sharpens a cut throat razor? A: STROP
Q: 'Winning is not Enough' is the autobiography of which British three-time world champion? A: Sir JACKIE STEWART
Q: What word for a straw or wicker basket was used as a unit of measurement, and in the north for a coal-scuttle or a beehive? A: SKEP
Q: Who is reputed to have said, 'Today, I have gazed on the face of Agamemnon'? after discoveries at Mycenae? A: Heinrich SCHLIEMANN
Q: Whom did St Paul describe as 'his beloved physician'? A: St. LUKE
Q: Which American Indian Lakota chief is the subject of a monument, begun in 1948, in the Black Hills of South Dakota? A: CRAZY HORSE
Q: Which country is bordered by Moldova, Bulgaria, Serbia, Hungary and Ukraine? A: ROMANIA
Q: Which is the smallest US state capital with a population of less than 8,000 (name either the capital or the state)? A: MONTPELIER, VERMONT
Q: Tempranillo is the main grape used in which Spanish wine? A: Rioja
Q: Where does Marsala wine come from? A: Sicily
Q: "Who played Aragorn in the film ""Lord of the Rings""?" A: Viggo Mortensen
Q: What is the name of Heston Blumenthal's restaurant in Bray, Berkshire? A: The Fat Duck
Q: "Which newspaper was once called the ""Daily Herald""?" A: The Sun
Q: "The ""Daily Sketch"" merged with which newspaper in 1971?" A: Daily Mail
Q: Which Englishman is credited with the discovery of oxygen? A: Joseph Priestley
Q: Which British chemist/inventor first isolated the chemical element sodium? A: Humphrey Davy
Q: Who is the Greek muse of history? A: Clio
Q: The Egyptian god Anubis has the head of which creature? A: Jackal
Q: The Hindu god Ganesh(a) or Ganapati has the head of which creature? A: Elephant
Q: Tolpuddle is in which English county? A: Dorset
Q: In which city did the Peterloo Massacre occur? A: Manchester
Q: "Which Scottish-born physician and author wrote ""A Study in Scarlet""?" A: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: "Which French author wrote ""The Black Tulip""?" A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: "Who wrote ""Our Man in Havana""?" A: Graham Greene
Q: "Who wrote ""Elegy in a Country Churchyard?" A: Thomas Gray
Q: A word spelt the same backwards and forwards is called what? A: Palindrome
Q: Frederick Delius was born where? A: Bradford
Q: In which city was L S. Lowry born? A: Salford
Q: Which English city was called Deva by the Romans? A: Chester
Q: Eboracum is the Roman name for which city? A: York
Q: "Who played country singer Johnny Cash in the film ""Walk the Line""?" A: Joaquin Phoenix
Q: "Who played President Richard Nixon in the film ""Nixon""?" A: Anthony Hopkins
Q: In which African country is the city of Fez? A: Morocco
Q: In which Asian country is the city of Haifa? A: Israel
Q: "Which Italian composed the opera ""La Traviata""?" A: Verdi
Q: "Which Austrian composed the opera ""The Magic Flute""?" A: Mozart
Q: What is the occupation of a dhobi? A: Clothes washing
Q: Who was the son of Philip II of Macedon? A: Alexander the Great
Q: Who was the husband of Helen of Troy (or Sparta)? A: Menelaus
Q: "Which English playwright wrote ""Loot""?" A: Joe Orton
Q: "Which American playwright/screenwriter wrote ""The Odd Couple""?" A: Neil Simon
Q: In which constellation is the Great Nebula? A: Orion
Q: Who won the 2010 Open Golf Championship at St. Andrews? A: Louis Oosthuizen
Q: Who won the 2010 World Snooker championship in Glasgow? A: Neil Robertson
Q: How many players are there per side in a GAA hurling team? A: Fifteen
Q: How many players of each side are on the field of Australian Rules football? A: Eighteen
Q: What is the capital city of the Dominican Republic? A: San(to) Domingo
Q: In which English city is De Montfort University? A: Leicester
Q: The city of Belfast stands on which river? A: Lagan
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of musicians? A: St. Cecilia
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of lost or hopeless causes? A: St. Jude
Q: A Mobius strip (or band) has how many sides? A: One
Q: 'Parting is such sweet sorrow' is said by which Shakespearian character? A: Juliet
Q: Who won the 2011 Best Actor Oscar Award? A: Colin Firth
Q: "Which American author wrote the 2011 novel ""The Corrections""?" A: Jonathan Franzen
Q: What is the value of the pink ball in the game of snooker? A: Six points
Q: What is the state capital of Delaware? A: DOVER
Q: Who is the voice of Po in the Kung Fu Panda films? A: JACK BLACK
Q: Give the common name for the plant `Kniphofia'. A: RED HOT POKER
Q: Who had a hit in 1966 with 'Pretty Flamingo'? A: MANFRED MANN
Q: Who was the only Englishman actually on the pitch in the FIFA World Cup Final of 2010? A: HOWARD WEBB
Q: In which novel does Charles Smithson fall in love with Sarah Woodruff? A: THE FRENCH LIEUTENANT'S WOMAN
Q: The Greenwich meridian crosses the Mediterranean coast of which African country? A: ALGERIA
Q: Knothead and Splinter are the nephew and niece of which cartoon character? A: WOODY WOODPECKER
Q: Which word for a non-Christian or heathen is derived from the Latin for peasant or rustic? A: PAGAN
Q: In a song, who is discovered in a club 'in old Soho where you drink champagne and it tastes just like cherry cola'? A: LOLA
Q: In which musical do three dance girls sing 'There's gotta be something better than this'? A: SWEET CHARITY
Q: Which tennis player was stabbed hi the back in Hamburg in 1993? A: MONICA SELES
Q: Who wrote 'The Allegory of Love' and 'Mere Christianity' in the 20th century? A: C S LEWIS
Q: Who was the first female president of the Irish Republic? A: MARY ROBINSON
Q: Cowcaddens and Hillhead are underground stations in which city? A: GLASGOW
Q: What number is on the film star Beetle car, Herbie? A: 53
Q: What are Duke of Burgundy, White Admiral and Essex Skipper? A: BUTTERFLIES
Q: Who played the character Nellie Harvey in Coronation Street? A: MOLLIE SUGDEN
Q: What breed of dog is known as the carriage dog? A: DALMATIAN
Q: Who produces the 'Cube' car model? A: NISSAN
Q: 'La donna e mobile' is from which Verdi opera? A: RIGOLETTO
Q: Gordon Beckham plays which sport for the Chicago White Sox? A: BASEBALL
Q: Who won the 2011 Booker Prize for 'The Sense of an Ending'? A: JULIAN BARNES
Q: What was Sir John Franklin searching for when he died? A: THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE
Q: Kingsford Smith Airport serves which city? A: SYDNEY
Q: Travis Beckum plays American Football for the New York Giants in which position, denoted by the letters T E? A: TIGHT END
Q: Who won the 2011 Turner Prize for his installation 'Do Words Have Voices'? A: MARTIN BOYCE
Q: Which famous British explorer went in search of El Dorado? A: SIR WALTER RALEIGH
Q: Which Caribbean island is served by Grantley Adams Airport? A: BARBADOS
Q: Which famous actor played a character called Ron Jenkins in Coronation Street? A: BEN KINGSLEY
Q: What is the only dog allowed to give testimony to a US court of law? A: BLOODHOUND
Q: Which opera by Offenbach features the barcarole entitled 'Belle nuit, o nuit d'amour'? A: THE TALES OF HOFFMAN
Q: How old was the Queen Mother when she died in March 2002? A: 101
Q: Starr Gate and Imperial Hotel are stops on which tram system? A: BLACKPOOL
Q: 'People will say we're in love' comes from which musical? A: OKLAHOMA!
Q: Who wrote the poem 'Easter 1916'? A: W B YEATS
Q: The cartoon character Norville Rogers is better known by what name? A: SHAGGY
Q: In a song who 'Painted up her lips and rolled and curled her tinted hair'? A: RUBY
Q: The Yas Marina Grand Prix circuit is in which city? A: ABU DHABI
Q: What is the title of the novel about Barnsley schoolboy Billy Casper which features PE teacher Mr Sugden? A: A KESTREL FOR A KNAVE
Q: Which proportional representation system was the subject of the 2011 Referendum? A: ALTERNATIVE VOTE
Q: The Tropic of Capricorn crosses the Atlantic coast of Africa in which country? A: NAMIBIA
Q: There are 2 letters of the alphabet which are not the initial letter of chemical elements. One is Q. Name the other. A: J
Q: Who had a hit in 1968 with 'Baby Come Back'? A: THE EQUALS
Q: Who is the voice of the title character in the recent film 'Puss in Boots'? A: ANTONIO BANDERAS
Q: 'Ranunculus' is the species name of which common wild flower? A: BUTTERCUP
Q: In South Africa what is the name given to ships of meat, salted and dried? A: BILTONG
Q: In which county is Aldeburgh? A: SUFFOLK
Q: Who played 'Two-Face' in the 1995 film 'Batman Forever'? A: TOMMY LEE JONES
Q: In which month is Anzac Day? A: APRIL
Q: According to the UN, what round figure did the world population reach on October 31st 2011? A: 7 BILLION
Q: Geraldine McQueen is the comedy character creation of which comedian? A: PETER KAY
Q: Who published a paper with the Geological Society of London on January 4th 1837 showing that the South American land mass was gradually rising? A: CHARLES DARWIN
Q: Which TV presenter recently published a book entitled 'Empire: What Ruling the World Did to the British'? A: JEREMY PAXMAN
Q: During the wars between the US Government and the Native Americans in the 1860s and 70s, Sitting Bull was one of the two great leaders of the Sioux; who was the other - victorious at the Battle of the Rose Bud and murdered whist in captivity in September 1877? A: CRAZY HORSE
Q: Which entertainer was born Stevland Judkins (his surname later changed to Morris) in Saginaw, Michigan in 1950? A: STEVIE WONDER
Q: Who is the most successful non US golfer in Major Championships with 9 wins? A: GARY PLAYER
Q: The Hahnenkamm mountain and ski runs are part of which European ski resort? A: KITZBÜHEL
Q: Which group had a 1967 hit with 'Night of Fear'? A: THE MOVE
Q: At which battle of 1403 was Sir Henry Percy aka Hotspur killed? A: SHREWSBURY
Q: Which Shakespeare play contains the line 'Neither a borrower or a lender be'? A: HAMLET
Q: What is the national flower of Spain? A: CARNATION
Q: Name the bear, the comedian from the 'Muppet Show'. A: FOZZIE
Q: What is the name of British Columbia's most popular ski resort, which was home to the alpine skiing events in the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: WHISTLER
Q: What honour was conferred on shoe designer Jimmy Choo in 2002? A: OBE
Q: At which battle of 1471 was Richard Neville aka Warwick the Kingmaker killed? A: BARNET
Q: Rugosa is a particular type of which garden shrub? A: ROSE
Q: 'All that glisters is not gold' is a line from which Shakespeare play? A: THE MERCHANT OF VENICE
Q: In the Lake District National Park, as what are Pavey Ark, Harrison Stickle and Pike of Stickle collectively known? A: LANGDALE PIKES
Q: Who owned a teddy bear called Archibald Ormsby-Gore? A: JOHN BETJEMAN
Q: In the children's TV show 'Trumpton', Captain Flack's firemen were Pugh, Pugh, Barney McGrew, Cuthbert, Dibble and who else? A: GRUBB
Q: After China, India and the USA, what is the world's most populous country? A: INDONESIA
Q: 'The Necessary Aptitude' is the title of which poet/celebrity's 2011 autobiography? A: PAM AYRES
Q: Of what type of bird did Darwin observe 12 different species in the Galapagos islands? A: FINCH
Q: Of which native American tribe were Geronimo and Cochise warrior leaders? A: APACHE
Q: Who won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1954 and the Peace Prize in 1962? A: LINUS PAULING
Q: Which singer was played by Diana Ross in the 1972 film 'Lady Sings The Blues'? A: BILLIE HOLLIDAY
Q: Who was Prime Minister of the UK at the time of the abdication of Edward VIII? A: STANLEY BALDWIN
Q: Which tenor singer recorded the album 'Bring Him Home', which reached number 9 in the UK album charts in 2010-11? A: ALFIE BOE
Q: Dustin Hoffman played the role of an autistic savant in the film 'Rain Man'. Who played the part of his younger brother Charlie? A: TOM CRUISE
Q: Which is the only one of New York's boroughs that is not on an island? A: BRONX
Q: Which type of gas is obtained by the controversial process of hydraulic fracturing or 'fracking'? A: SHALE GAS
Q: Which novel opens with the following words 'The boy with fair hair lowered himself down the last few feet of rock and began to pick his way towards the lagoon'? A: LORD OF THE FLIES
Q: The oldest extant version of the Bible made by Jerome in the 4th century is known by which name? A: VULGATE
Q: Which US city is the setting for the TV drama series 'Treme' (pronounced Tremmay)? A: NEW ORLEANS
Q: Which city is linked to the motorway network by the M32? A: BRISTOL
Q: How high, in feet, is a hockey goal (not ice hockey)? A: SEVEN
Q: Who wrote the music for the ballet 'Daphnis et Chloé'? A: MAURICE RAVEL
Q: Who was Commander-in-Chief of American ground forces in planning the invasion of France in 1944 and Commander of the US 1st Army on D Day? A: OMAR BRADLEY
Q: What substance crystallises in the gall bladder to form gall stones? A: CHOLESTEROL
Q: Plato was the pupil of which famous teacher? A: SOCRATES
Q: In the Second World War, what was Operation Avalanche? A: ALLIED INVASION OF ITALY
Q: Who is chief conductor of the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra? A: VASILY PETRENKO
Q: Kelly Sotherton won an Olympic bronze medal in which athletics event in the 2004 games? A: HEPTATHLON
Q: What was the name of JFK Airport in New York prior to 1963? A: IDLEWILD
Q: Which literary heroine was played in a 2011 film by Mia Wasikowska? A: JANE EYRE
Q: Before petroleum was first commercialized in 1859, which oil was most commonly used for lubrication and lighting? A: WHALE OIL
Q: Which novel opens with the following words 'Renowned curator Jacques Saunière staggered through the vaulted archway of the museum's Grand Gallery'? A: THE DA VINCI CODE
Q: Which motorway connects Glasgow and Edinburgh? A: M8
Q: Which fictional town was the setting for the TV series 'Z-Cars'? A: NEWTOWN
Q: In which country is Verdi's opera 'Aida' set? A: EGYPT
Q: How high is the post on which the ring and net are suspended in netball? A: TEN
Q: Which organ in the body secretes insulin and glucagon to regulate blood sugar levels? A: PANCREAS
Q: Which Russian general led the defence of Moscow and the relief of Stalingrad during World War II? A: GEORGY ZHUKOV
Q: The Vinson Massif is the highest mountain area in which continent? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: What was the first name of the furniture maker Chippendale? A: THOMAS
Q: How many spoons are there in a full set of Apostle spoons? A: 13
Q: A standard (Double 6) set of Dominoes contains how many dominoes? A: 28
Q: The River Volga flows into which sea? A: Caspian
Q: Found on bottles, what is the meaning of A.B.V.? A: Alcohol By Volume
Q: How many squares are there on a standard Scrabble board? A: 225
Q: Which is the national flower of Mexico? A: Dahlia
Q: In 'The Owl and the Pussycat' who performed the wedding? A: The Turkey
Q: Which royal title is held by Prince Edward? A: Earl of Wessex
Q: Which US multinational chain is named after a character in Moby Dick? A: Starbucks
Q: How many astronauts have walked on the Moon? A: 12
Q: Which title is held by Princess Margaret's son David Armstrong Jones? A: Viscount Linley
Q: In the children's song Nellie the Elephant. the head of the herd was met one night on which road? A: (to) Mandalay
Q: In what year did the last Moonwalk take place? A: 1972
Q: In which decade was Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) founded by Colonel Harland Sanders? A: 1930s
Q: What number lies between 19 and 17 at the bottom of a dartboard? A: 3
Q: What are the periods of play in polo called? A: Chukkas
Q: "Known in English as ""The Soldiers Song"" is the national anthem of which European country?" A: Republic of Ireland
Q: Which letter in Morse Code is represented by Dot Dash? A: A
Q: Who devised and created the Blake's Seven TV series? A: Terry Nation
Q: "Known in English as ""Royal March"", the national anthem of which country has no words?" A: Spain
Q: Semiotics is the study of what? A: Signs
Q: Which English football club play home games at Roots Hall? A: Southend United
Q: On board ship what is kept in a binnacle? A: Compass
Q: In which British city was Saint Enoch's Railway Station? A: Glasgow
Q: Which English football club are nicknamed the Shakers? A: Bury
Q: Hagiology is a branch of Literature dealing with the lives and stories of whom? A: Saints
Q: Which was the first London Underground railway line? A: Metropolitan
Q: What name is given to a prison or cell on a US ship? A: Brig
Q: In which English county can the Prime Minister's country house Chequers be found? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: Which is generally considered to be Shakespeare's last play, written in 1611? A: The Tempest
Q: 'Barwick Green' is the theme tune to which radio serial? A: The Archers
Q: To within 1 year either side, in which year did the half crown cease to be legal tender in the U A: 1970
Q: The US Presidential retreat Camp David is in which state? A: Maryland
Q: To within 1 year either side - in which year did the sixpence cease to be legal tender in the UK? A: 1980
Q: 'Approaching Menace' is the theme tune to which TV quiz show? A: Mastermind
Q: What is the world's most southerly national capital city? A: Wellington
Q: In what year was the old age pension introduced in the UK? A: 1909
Q: Which motorway connects London to Swansea? A: M4
Q: In Star Wars what alien species is Chewbacca? A: A Wookiee
Q: In terms of population what is New Zealand's largest city? A: Auckland
Q: Which motorway connects Bristol to the M4? A: M32
Q: Who was Prime Minister when pensions were introduced? A: H H Asquith
Q: Number One Canada Square, London, is better known as what name? A: Canary Wharf
Q: Where on the body would you wear puttees? A: Legs
Q: In literature whose manservant was Bunter? A: Lord Peter Wimsey
Q: Denmark Street in London is also known by what nickname? A: Tin Pan Alley
Q: To within 1 year either side, in what year did the UK first win the Eurovision Song Contest? A: 1967
Q: The Olympic Games of 1944 were cancelled - where would they have taken place? A: London
Q: Vermilion is a shade of which primary colour? A: Red
Q: Hg is the chemical symbol for which element? A: Mercury
Q: Who was the first English king of the House of Lancaster? A: Henry IV
Q: Lapis Lazuli is a shade of which primary colour? A: Blue
Q: Where were the first Winter Olympics held in 1924? A: Chamonix
Q: In Mohs scale of hardness which mineral is rated Number One - i.e. the softest? A: Talc
Q: What cut of beef is found between the rump and the fore rib? A: Sirloin
Q: What is the only bird leather can be obtained from? A: Ostrich
Q: When milk sours what acid is formed? A: Lactic acid
Q: What grape is used to make Beaujolais wine? A: GAMAY
Q: Which singer won the Eurovision Song Contest for Switzerland in 1988 and so launched her international career? A: CELINE DION
Q: "Who said on the morning of her execution ""I now know that patriotism is not enough""?" A: EDITH CAVELL
Q: In The Jeeves Stories by P. G. Wodehouse, one of the characters was called Mrs Spenser Gregson. What did Bertie Wooster usually call her? A: AUNT AGATHA
Q: What is the name of Tchaikovsky's symphony No. 6 in B minor? A: PATHETIQUE
Q: The Hill of Tara, ancient seat of the High Kings of Ireland, lies in which Irish county? A: MEATH
Q: Which is usually considered to be the 6th book of the Old Testament? A: JOSHUA
Q: Which American singer had a UK top 20 hit in 1963 with 'Deck of Cards'? A: WINK MARTINDALE
Q: Which species of deer, originally from South Asia but now with a large, feral population in England, is sometimes known as 'the barking deer'? A: MUNTJAC
Q: "To within a year, either way, in which year was ""The Sky at Night"" first broadcast on TV?" A: 1957
Q: In Norse mythology what was Bifrost? A: THE RAINBOW BRIDGE
Q: Fuggles and goldings are varieties of which edible plant? A: HOPS
Q: Patrick Clifton is a popular fictional character on children's television. By what name is he better known? A: POSTMAN PAT
Q: Mechanical models of the Solar system are named after which Irish Earl who was presented with an early model of one? A: THE EARL OF ORRERY
Q: Which US State has the smallest population? A: WYOMING
Q: Aristide Bruant and Jane Avril feature in the art of which French painter? A: HENRI DE TOULOUSE-LAUTREC
Q: Which geological epoch are we currently in? A: THE HOLOCENE
Q: St Clare of Assisi is the Patron Saint of which everyday thing? A: TELEVISION
Q: Which Indian God is usually depicted with the head of an elephant? A: GANESH
Q: Give a year in the life of John Bunyan? A: 1628-1688
Q: Who replaced Steve Bruce as Manager of Sunderland in December 2011? A: MARTIN O'NEILL
Q: Which breed of dog has varieties called Welsh, Scottish and Irish? A: TERRIERS
Q: In October 2011 which militant separatist organisation declared an end to violent protest after 43 years? A: ETA
Q: Asti Spumante is a white bubbly wine from Asti in Northern Italy. What is the name of the red wine from the same area? A: BARBERA
Q: How many times has Luxemburg won the Eurovision Song Contest? A: FIVE TIMES
Q: Margaretha Zelle was shot as a spy in Paris in 1917, how was she better known? A: MATA HARI
Q: In which Country is Graham Greene's Novel The Comedians set? A: HAITI
Q: What is the nickname of Chopin's short piano piece 'Waltz in D flat, Op.64, No.1'? A: THE MINUTE WALTZ
Q: In which year in the 1950'S did the UK Top 20 see hits like 'Volare' by Dean Martin, 'Stupid Cupid' by Connie Francis and 'Hello my Darlings' by Charlie Drake? A: 1958
Q: Haliaeetus albicilla is the Latin name for the largest bird of prey in the UK. By what name is it normally known? A: (WHITE TAILED) SEA EAGLE
Q: Within a year either way when was the radio programme 'The Archers' first broadcast throughout the UK? A: 1951
Q: In Greek mythology, by what collective name are the daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne better known? A: THE MUSES
Q: Who plays the part of Sergeant Hathaway in ITV's detective series 'Lewis'? A: LAWRENCE FOX
Q: Which nation's flag is said to be the oldest still in use? A: DENMARK
Q: Barbara Euphan Todd wrote a series of children's books about which popular character later the star of several TV series? A: WORZEL GUMMIDGE
Q: "At which Washington monument, in August 1963, did Martin Luther King deliver his historic ""I have a dream"" speech?" A: THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL
Q: What name is given to the swim bladders of certain fish when used in cookery and brewing? A: ISINGLASS
Q: Which Italian painter is known for his images of human faces made up of such things as flowers, vegetables and fish? A: GIUSEPPE ARCIMBOLDO
Q: To within 10 how many stations are served by the London Underground? A: 270
Q: Which of the saints was martyred by being stoned to death? A: ST STEPHEN
Q: Ballabriggs won the 2011 Grand National. Who was his jockey? A: JASON MAGUIRE
Q: Which Roman wrote 'Ars Poetica' and the 'Odes'? A: HORACE
Q: What kind of creature is a taipan? A: A SNAKE
Q: The 'Occupy...' movement started in September 2011 and now has camps in more than 80 countries. But which was the first camp? A: OCCUPY WALL STREET
Q: What kind of bird has varieties called tawny, short-eared and little? A: OWL
Q: What is the name of the bus in the 'Thomas the Tank Engine' stories? A: BERTIE
Q: Which city is near the Hawkesbury river and is served by Kingsford-Smith airport? A: Sydney
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister of an independent India in 1947? A: (Jawaharlal) Nehru
Q: Ditalini and manicotti are examples of which food? A: Pasta
Q: The character Alexander Orlov advertises which company in TV commercials? A: Comparethemarket.com
Q: Who composed 'Belshazzar's Feast' cantata? A: William Walton
Q: What personal trophy/keepsake is awarded to every member of an American Football Superbowl winning team? A: A Ring
Q: What was the name of the French government from 1870 to 1940 when it collapsed and was replaced by the Vichy Government? A: Third Republic
Q: What is the name of the long, thin muscle that runs down the thigh, the longest muscle in the human body? A: Sartorius
Q: What is the basic unit of Braille called? A: Cell
Q: Which city is served by Carrasco airport and was the last port of call for the German battleship Graf Spee? A: Montevideo
Q: What was the title of Elton John's first solo No. I hit? A: Sacrifice
Q: Who won the Best Actress Oscar in 1990 for her role as Annie Wilkes in the film 'Misery'? A: Kathy Bates
Q: The name of which ribbon pasta can be translated as 'little ribbons' or 'little slices'? A: Fettuccini
Q: Which composer won an Oscar for the music score in the film 'Bridge on the River Kwai'? A: Malcolm Arnold
Q: Who was the first Governor-General of Pakistan from August 1947 to his death in September 1948, he is known as the 'Father of the Nation'? A: (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah
Q: 'I Could be so Good For You' was the theme song to which TV programme? A: Minder
Q: If something is described as 'aquiline', which creature does it look like? A: Eagle
Q: Name the year; Minimum wage introduced (£3.60 for over 21s), Prince Edward married Sophie Rhys-Jones, total eclipse of the sun in Cornwall? A: 1999
Q: What personal trophy/keepsake is awarded to the winner of a World-Series-of Poker tournament? A: A Bracelet
Q: Which 1960 play has as its title character, a tramp named 'Davies'? A: The Caretaker
Q: Which famous racehorse, winner of all his 18 races, is an ancestor of over 90% of all racehorses? A: Eclipse
Q: What was the capital of the independent republic of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1975? A: Saigon
Q: Namibia, then known as South-West Africa, became a colony of which country in 1884? A: Germany
Q: The Shard stands next to which London Underground station? A: London Bridge
Q: The Pleiades and Hyades star clusters are in which constellation? A: Taurus
Q: The Green Man Music Festival takes place every August in which National Park? A: Brecon Beacons
Q: Which is the longest and widest nerve in the human body? A: Sciatic
Q: A 104 metre long 'Tapestry' depicting the early campaign of Bonnie Prince Charlie was completed in 2010, it is named after which town/battle? A: Prestonpans
Q: Vic Brown is the hero of which 1960 novel set in West Yorkshire? A: A Kind of Loving
Q: Danny O'Donoghue was a judge on the TV show 'The Voice'; he is the singer with which group? A: The Script
Q: Which seaside town is the venue for the Latitude Music Festival every July? A: Southwold
Q: 'That's Livin' Alright' was the theme song to which TV programme? A: Auf Wiedersehen, Pet
Q: Prince Harry has three other forenames, give any one of them? A: Charles Albert David
Q: On which island are the 'Standing Stones of Callanish'? A: Lewis
Q: Rigel and Betelgeuse are in which constellation? A: Orion
Q: Who was the New Zealander killed during a protest against the National front in London in 1979? A: Blair Peach
Q: Ottawa, the capital of Canada, is in which province? A: Ontario
Q: Which treaty of 1783 ended the US War of Indepencence? A: (Peace of) Paris
Q: What was the name of the brother of the six Mitford sisters? A: Thomas
Q: Graham McPherson achieved fame as a singer using which name? A: Suggs
Q: What is the English title of the national anthem of Ireland? A: Soldier's Song
Q: What is the SI unit of electrical resistance? A: Ohm
Q: "In which country did the so called ""Arab Spring"" uprisings commence in 2011?" A: Tunisia
Q: Whose operatic works include Lucia di Lammermoor and Ann Boleyn? A: Gaetano Donizetti
Q: Who is the patron saint of tax collectors? A: Matthew
Q: State of Israel is proclaimed. A: 1948
Q: Treaty of Rome signed, establishing the EEC. A: 1957
Q: Fall of the Berlin Wall. A: 1989
Q: "Who referred to the House of Lords as ""Mr Balfour's Poodle""?" A: David Lloyd George
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name of the winged horse which sprang from the dead body of Medusa? A: Pegasus
Q: Which new state officially came into being in July 2011? A: South Sudan
Q: The film Throne of Blood (1957) was based on which Shakespeare play? A: Macbeth
Q: "Who said, ""I want to be the white man's brother, not his brother in law""?" A: Martin Luther King
Q: According to Greek mythology, what was the name of the three headed dog which guarded the entrance to the underworld? A: Cerberus
Q: In which town was Colonel Gaddafi killed in 2011? A: Sirte
Q: Which team was led to victory by Ritchie McCall in 2011? A: New Zealand Rugby Union
Q: Which county cricket team were the first winners of the Sunday League in 1969? A: Lancashire
Q: Which county cricket team were the first winners of the Gillette Cup in 1963? A: Sussex
Q: Which Sam rode the winner of the 2011 Cheltenham Gold Cup, Long Run? A: Sam Waley Cohen
Q: The flight of which space shuttle in 2011 successfully concluded Nasa's space shuttle programme? A: Atlantis
Q: Which European country's flag is a vertical tricolour of black, gold (yellow) and red? A: Belgium
Q: After how many years of marriage do you celebrate a wood anniversary? A: 5
Q: Which artist's work includes The Merry Drinker and The Laughing Cavalier? A: Franz Hals
Q: Which country moved from east to west on the international date line in 2011 to align its time zone better with its main trading partners? A: Samoa
Q: In which country was the film director Roman Polanski born? A: France
Q: For which US President did Richard Nixon serve as Vice President? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: Which is the oldest college of Cambridge University? A: Peterhouse
Q: Which is the longest established college of Oxford University? A: University
Q: In which country was actor Basil Rathbone born? A: South Africa
Q: Which is the largest US state, in terms of population? A: California
Q: In literature, whose servant was Passepartout? A: Phileas Fogg
Q: In which Pakistan city was Osama Bin Laden killed in 2011? A: Abbottabad
Q: At which Japanese power plant was a state of emergency declared after an earthquake in 2011? A: Fukushima
Q: Which is the largest US state by size (area)? A: Alaska
Q: In literature, whose servant was Sancho Panza? A: Don Quixote
Q: Who wrote the play Chips with Everything? A: Arnold Wesker
Q: In which decade was the driving test introduced in the UK and L plates issued? A: 1930s
Q: Which is the lightest metallic element with Atomic Number 3? A: Lithium
Q: How is the Sunday before Easter known in the Western Christian Church? A: Palm Sunday
Q: In which game are there variations such as 'Honest John', 'Into the Woods' and 'Fives and Threes'? A: Dominoes
Q: Which UK shipping forecast area is named after the founder of the Meteorological Office? A: Fitzroy
Q: In 1842, which German socialist came to work in one of his father's mills, where sewing threads were made, in Weaste, Salford? A: Friedrich Engels
Q: Travelling on the M40 between Oxford and London, you would pass through which range of hills? A: Chilterns
Q: The first woman to win an Olympic gold medal was Charlotte Cooper in Paris in 1900, in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Amiens is the largest city and capital of which region of France? A: Picardy
Q: Who was Britain's first female Foreign Secretary? A: Margaret Beckett
Q: Michelangelo's statue 'David' is in the Galleria dell'Accademia in which city? A: Florence
Q: Who is currently Queen of the Netherlands? A: Beatrix
Q: Which US state is named after Queen Elizabeth I? A: Virginia
Q: Which religion has Five Pillars (the Shadahad, Salah, Zakah, Sawma and Hajj)? A: Islam
Q: Which gaseous element has the lowest melting and boiling points of all the elements? A: Helium
Q: Hans Lansdorf was the captain of which World War 2 German battleship? A: Graf Spee
Q: Complete the name of the album 'Noel Gallagher's '? A: High Flying Birds
Q: The museum at Avebury Stone Circle was established by an archaeologist who was the heir to which marmalade company (the original commercial brand of marmalade)? A: Keiller
Q: Which product was advertised on TV using the phrase 'Any time, any place, anywhere'? A: Martini
Q: Who painted the self portrait; 'Arrangement in Gray: Portrait of a Painter'? A: Whistler
Q: Who starred as Matt Dillon in the TV programme 'Gunsmoke'? A: James Arness
Q: James Arness had a brother Peter who starred in the TV series 'Mission Impossible', under what surname did he act? A: Graves
Q: Who was British Prime Minister at the outbreak of the First World War? A: Asquith
Q: In which opera does a hunchback jester help his master, the Duke of Mantua, to seduce the daughter of a courtier? A: Rigoletto
Q: What is the name of the main character in John Osborne's 'Look Back In Anger'? A: Jimmy Porter
Q: Which 'major-winning' golfer has the real first names Gerry Lester? A: Bubba Watson
Q: Clock, Klondike and Aces Up are variations of which group of card games? A: Patience
Q: Which Salford landmark appeared as a backdrop for the Smiths 1986 album cover 'The Queen is Dead'? A: Salford Lads Club
Q: Which football team, newcomers to League 2, play home games at Highbury? A: Fleetwood Town
Q: Name either of the entertainers who played the roles of two Britons accused of faking a documentary in the film 'Alien Autopsy'? A: Ant & Dec
Q: The trophy awarded to the winner of the Ladies Singles at the French Open tennis championships is named after which famous player? A: Suzanne Lenglen
Q: A Tequila Sunrise is made with tequila, orange and which other fruit ingredient? A: Grenadine
Q: Which-singer's voice was of the leading actress in the films 'Gentlemen Prefer Blondes', 'The King and I', 'West Side Story' and 'My Fair Lady'? A: Marni Nixon
Q: Who was the son of Mani Nixon who died in 2011, his hits include 'Lonely Boy', How Can This Be Love' and 'Never Let Her Slip Away'? A: Andrew Gold
Q: What is the title of Kazuo Ishiguro's 1989 Booker Prize winning novel which was made into a 1993 film of the same name starring Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson? A: The Remains of the Day
Q: Which religion has Five K's (Kesh, Kangha, Kachera, Kara and Kirpan)? A: Sikh(ism)
Q: Which range of hills lie at the northern end of the Pennine Way? A: Cheviots
Q: What is the name of the group formed by Liam Gallagher after the break-up of Oasis? A: Beady Eye
Q: Leonardo da Vinci's 'The Last Supper' is in a church in which city? A: Milan
Q: "Which novelist won the 1970 Nobel Prize for Literature ""for the ethical force with which he has pursued the indispensable traditions of Russian literature""?" A: Solzhenitsyn
Q: Which UK shipping forecast area is the most southerly, lying off the coast of Spain? A: Trafalgar
Q: Ernst Lindemann was the captain of which World War 2 German battleship? A: Bismarck
Q: In August 2012, three members of which Russian feminist punk-rock collective were sentenced to two years in jail for hooliganism? A: Pussy Riot
Q: A Bellini cocktail is made with the sparkling wine prosecco and which fruit juice? A: Peach
Q: Which 'major-winning' golfer has the real first names Lodewicus Theodorus? A: Louis Oosthuizen
Q: Which US state is named after Queen Henrietta Maria of France? A: Maryland
Q: Martello Towers derive their name from a fortress on which island? A: Corsica
Q: Which Italian opera has a title meaning 'The strolling players (or clowns)'? A: I Pagliacci
Q: "Who is the main character in the series of stories called 'Adventures of a Black Bag""?" A: Dr Finlay
Q: Who painted the self portraits 'Self-Portrait with Palette' and 'Self-Portrait with Cap'? A: Manet
Q: Admiral Lord Nelson was created Duke of Bronte, on which island is Bronte? A: Sicily
Q: What is the title of Graham Swift's 1996 Booker Prize winning novel which was made into a 2001 film of the same name starring Michael Caine and Helen Mirren? A: Last Orders
Q: Which former Chancellor of the Exchequer wrote 'The Chancellor' about all his predecessors from Randolph Churchill to Hugh Dalton? A: Roy Jenkins
Q: The Centre for Life is a science museum in which city? A: Newcastle
Q: The intensity of what is measured on the Saffir-Simpson scale? A: Hurricanes
Q: Which politician married barrister Justine Thornton in May 2011 in Nottingham? A: Ed Miliband
Q: "Which dish, its name meaning literally ""pick me up"", comprises among other things, ladyfingers, egg yolks and mascarpone?" A: Tiramisu
Q: Ted Hughes became Poet Laureate in 1984 on the death of John Betjeman, but which poet declined the offer to succeed Betjeman? A: Philip Larkin
Q: "The ""boob tube"" is an item of clothing in the UK; but to what did the term refer when it was originally coined in the USA?" A: Television
Q: Catherine of Valois, Matilda and Margaret Beaufort were all mothers of English Kings with which first name? A: Henry
Q: The bicentenary of which event was commemorated by the issue of a special £2 coin in 2007? A: Abolition of the Slave Trade
Q: In the 2010 general election, the first three constituencies to announce their results were all in which city? A: Sunderland
Q: Stewart Island is the third largest island of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: By what pen-name do we better know the Belgian artist Georges Remy, whose work has sold over 350 million copies? A: Herge
Q: What is the flavour of the liqueur Aamaretto? A: Almond
Q: At which Buckinghamshire estate did the National Museum of Computing open in 2007? A: Bletchley Park
Q: In which part of the world are the Berber people indigenous? A: North Africa
Q: What should have been launched on April 20th 1964, but was delayed until the following day because of an fire at Battersea power station? A: BBC2
Q: Which foodstuff was first displayed in England in the shop window of Thomas Johnson of London on April 10th 1633? A: Bananas
Q: Kielder Water is the largest artificial lake in the UK. In which county would you find it? A: Northumberland
Q: Karl Pilkington is the central character in which TV series, first broadcast in September 2010? A: An Idiot Abroad
Q: What is Ken Dodd's middle name? A: Arthur
Q: In the history of the British army, what were the Baker, the Brunswick and the Ferguson? A: Rifles
Q: What is the most common name for the animal found in North America which is also known as the woodchuck or land beaver? A: Groundhog
Q: Which American rock band, formed in 1964, included amongst its members David Crosby and Roger McGuinn? A: The Byrds
Q: In which state of the USA would you find the cities of Chattanooga and Knoxville? A: Tennessee
Q: For his performance in which film did Gregory Peck win the Best Actor Oscar? A: To Kill a Mockingbird
Q: "Which mountain makes up the Yorkshire ""Three Peaks"", along with Ingleborough and Pen-y-Ghent?" A: Whernside
Q: In the American army, what is an M1 Abrams? A: Tank
Q: Which semi-soft cheese has a name which translates as 'beautiful country'? A: Bel Paese
Q: "Which blue-veined soft cheese has a name which translates as ""sweet milk""?" A: Dolcelatte
Q: The centenary of which sporting event was commemorated by the issue of a special £2 coin in 2008? A: (1908) London Olympics
Q: Which prominent British politician has children named Lara Lettice, Milo Arthur, Cassia Peaches and Theodore Apollo? A: Boris Johnson
Q: "Which South-East Asian city is known as the ""Lion City""?" A: Singapore
Q: Which American band, formed in 1965, included amongst its members John and Michelle Phillips? A: The Mamas and the Papas
Q: In which state of the USA would you find the cities of Macon and Savannah? A: Georgia
Q: What is traditionally the main ingredient of gazpacho? A: Tomatoes
Q: Which snack or meal was popularised by a marketing campaign in the late 1950s and early 1960s by the Milk Marketing Board? A: Ploughman's Lunch
Q: Which creature has three species: plains, mountain and Grevy's? A: Zebra
Q: At which London station was a statue of John Betjeman unveiled in 2007? A: St Pancras
Q: Who won Best Actor Oscars for the roles of Father Edward Flanagan and Manuel Fidelio? A: Spencer Tracy
Q: Who was the only man to serve as Chancellor of the Exchequer under both Harold Wilson and James Callaghan? A: Dennis Healey
Q: In the Tin Tin stories, how do we know the character who is called Professeur Tournesol in the original French works? A: Professor Calculus
Q: By what name are David Myers and Simon King known in the title of several TV series? A: The Hairy Bikers
Q: Which group of Lakeland peaks includes Pavey Ark and Harrison Stickle? A: Langdale Pikes
Q: In which Asian country is Tagalog spoken? A: Philippines
Q: Not counting the City of London, which is the smallest city in England by population? A: Wells
Q: Russia is the largest republic which emerged from the former Soviet Union; which is the second largest? A: Kazakhstan
Q: Up until 1959, Karachi was the capital of Pakistan. Which city was capital from 1959 to 1969 whilst Islamabad was being built? A: Rawalpindi
Q: In the Morecambe and Wise 1971 Christmas special, there was a famous sketch featuring Andre Previn; what was the piece of music which was supposedly being played? A: Grieg Piano Concerto
Q: What was Coco Chanel's real first name? A: Gabrielle
Q: What kind of bird is a kakapo, which is endemic to New Zealand? A: Parrot
Q: Pudong International Airport serves which Far Eastern city? A: SHANGHAI
Q: Klaipeda is the main port sewing which EU country? A: LITHUANIA
Q: Which group had a 1968 number 1 hit with 'Baby, Come Back'? A: THE EQUALS
Q: Which Austrian composed the opera 'La Clemenza di Tito'? A: WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART
Q: In James Fenimore Cooper's novel who is 'The Last of the Mohicans'? A: UNCAS
Q: Which country's team won the 2011 Women's Football World Cup? A: JAPAN
Q: In Thai cuisine kapi is a paste made up of what? A: SHRIMPS
Q: The wording R. Mutt on a urinal appears in a work of art by which artist? A: MARCEL DUCHAMP
Q: The 2011 Open in golf was played at which English course? A: ROYAL ST GEORGE'S
Q: Which fruit has the varieties Arthur Turner, Discovery and Winter Gem? A: APPLE
Q: Who is the subject of the biopic film 'Great Balls of Fire!'? A: JERRY LEE LEWIS
Q: Krubera, the deepest known cave at over 2000 metres deep, is in which country of south-east Europe? A: GEORGIA
Q: Which chemical element takes its name from the Greek for 'inactive'? A: ARGON
Q: Name the English general who surrendered to American forces at Saratoga in 1777. A: JOHN BURGOYNE
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 2001 with 'True History of the Kelly Gang'? A: PETER CAREY
Q: The film 'De-Lovely' is a biopic on which musician's life? A: COLE PORTER
Q: In which year did the Battle of Vitoria take place during the Peninsular War? A: 1813
Q: Which fruit has varieties named Czar, Kirke's Blue and Marjorie's Seedling? A: PLUM
Q: Name the 19th century American artist famous for his illustrated book 'The Birds of America'. A: JOHN J AUDUBON
Q: Who was captain of the wrecked cruise ship Costa Concordia in 2011, who abandoned his ship? A: FRANCESCO SCHETTINO
Q: Where in the body is the stapes bone? A: EAR
Q: Sky Harbor International Airport serves which US state capital? A: PHOENIX
Q: In Russia shchi is a soup made using which vegetable? A: CABBAGE
Q: Which Npower Football League Division 2 club plays at home at the Kassam Stadium? A: OXFORD UNITED
Q: 'Sanditon' was an unfinished novel by which 18th/19th century author? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf is the first female African head of state - in which country? A: LIBERIA
Q: Which pop group had a hit in 1970 with 'Lola'? A: THE KINKS
Q: In New Zealand Aoraki is the native name for which natural feature? A: MOUNT COOK
Q: Which hit record of the 1960s includes the line 'Sixteen vestal virgins who are leaving for the coast'? A: A WHITER SHADE OF PALE
Q: Which Austrian composer's symphony number 104 has the title 'London'? A: JOSEPH HAYDN
Q: Mr Jaggers and the clerk Wemmick appear in which of Dickens' novels? A: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Q: In the cult Danish TV series 'The Killing' Sofie Grabol plays which leading character? A: SARAH LUND
Q: Which island lies off the coast of South Wales opposite Tenby? A: CALDEY
Q: Which London art gallery is situated in a Victorian mansion in Manchester Square? A: THE WALLACE COLLECTION
Q: Who won a 2012 Oscar for Best Supporting Actor for his role in 'Beginners'? A: CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER
Q: The first cancellation to be used on British postage stamps in 1840 was of what form? A: A (MALTESE) CROSS
Q: Deneb is the brightest star of which constellation? A: CYGNUS
Q: In the 2008 film 'Charlie Wilson's War' which actor took the title role? A: TOM HANKS
Q: The town of Ystad and its area are largely the setting for the exploits of which literary and TV detective? A: WALLANDER
Q: The site of the old English and pirate harbour of Port Royal is to be found where in the Caribbean? A: JAMAICA
Q: 'Look into my face Marie-Claire and remember just who you are' is a line from which 1969 hit record? A: WHERE DO YOU GO TO
Q: Benghazi is the chief town of which province in Libya? A: CYRENAICA
Q: What is the common name of the purple flowering garden plant Lunaria valued for its seed pods? A: HONESTY
Q: The French gold coin used until 1795 known as a 'Louis' had a value of how many francs? A: TWENTY
Q: The Rhodope Mountains lie mostly in which East European country? A: BULGARIA
Q: Moya Greene is the Chief Executive of which UK company? A: ROYAL MAIL
Q: Spica is the brightest star in which constellation? A: VIRGO
Q: Which US boundary line was named after two English surveyors who surveyed the area in the 1760s? A: MASON-DIXON LINE
Q: According to mythology Hermes wore talaria to aid him. What were they? A: WINGED SANDALS
Q: Who plays Holmes in the recent TV series entitled 'Sherlock'? A: BENEDICT CUMBERBATCH
Q: Mulhacen, the highest peak on mainland Spain, lies in which range? A: SIERRA NEVADA
Q: Miss Pross and Jarvis Lorry are characters in which of Dickens' novels? A: A TALE OF TWO CITIES
Q: The International Airlines Group was formed from a merger of British Airways and which other airline? A: IBERIA
Q: In Greek mythology by what name are mountain nymphs known? A: OREADS
Q: Which actress won the 2012 Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her performance in 'The Help'? A: OCTAVIA SPENCER
Q: Mozart's Symphony number 31 is named after which European city? A: PARIS
Q: Who was the jazz trumpet musician leading the Tijuana Brass? A: HERB ALPERT
Q: The Hindu deity Hanuman appears in the form of which animal? A: A MONKEY
Q: Who was the Russian author of 'Taras Bulba' and 'Dead Souls'? A: NIKOLAI GOGOL
Q: Which bird is associated with Lundy Island? A: PUFFIN
Q: What is the colour of the flower edelweiss? A: WHITE
Q: Which footballer was known as 'The Flying Pig'? A: TOMMY LAWRENCE
Q: Who wrote romantic navels under the name Mary Westmacott? A: AGATHA CHRISTIE
Q: What was the profession of the composer Vivaldi? A: PRIEST
Q: "Which hit song by Roy Orbison begins ""A candy coloured clown they call the sandman""?" A: IN DREAMS
Q: In Britain we put icing on cakes what do Americans call icing? A: FROSTING
Q: What is the smallest breed of ape? A: GIBBON
Q: What is the maximum number of letters and spaces that can be in the name of a racehorse? A: 18
Q: What is the capital city of Albania? A: TIRANA
Q: Which cricketer holds the record of being the longest serving captain of his country? A: W. G. GRACE
Q: Which Shakespeare's play does the character Petruchio appear? A: TAMING OF THE SHREW
Q: What is the alternative name for the flower digitalis purpurea? A: FOXGLOVE
Q: What mythical creature has a dragon's head, a serpent's tail and a body with wings and legs? A: WYVERN
Q: Boris Johnson was once the editor of which weekly political magazine? A: SPECTATOR
Q: Which was the first National Park in the United States of America? A: YELLOWSTONE
Q: Which poet famously wrote 'Tis better to have loved and lost then never to have loved at all'? A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: What is the collective noun for hedgehogs? A: ARRAY
Q: Which bird is the largest member of the crow family? A: RAVEN
Q: What is the alternative name for the flower belladonna? A: DEADLY NIGHTSHADE
Q: Who was manager of Manchester United, when they were last relegated? A: TOMMY DOCHERTY
Q: Which bird can swim as fast as a seal? A: A PENGUIN
Q: Which classical composter wrote 'The Snow Maiden' and 'The Golden Cockerel'? A: RIMSKY KORSAKOV
Q: """When you happen to know today is Wednesday and starts like sounding like Sunday, there is something seriously wrong somewhere"" is the opening line of which John Wyndham novel?" A: THE DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS
Q: Which make of car was the first to be powered by gas turbine? A: ROVER
Q: Which Greek hero married Andromeda? A: PERSEUS
Q: Janet Street Porter was once the editor of which British newspaper? A: INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY
Q: What is the real name of John le Carre? A: DAVID CORNWELL
Q: Which is the only non human land animal to suffer from sunburn? A: PIG
Q: What is the longest winning distance in the Epsom Derby? A: 10 LENGTHS
Q: In which City was Tony Blair born? A: EDINBURGH
Q: In which year was Marie Antoinette executed? A: 1793
Q: "Who first said or wrote ""I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat""?" A: WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: A cornice is a variety of which fruit? A: PEAR
Q: What is the world's biggest selling copyrighted board game? A: MONOPOLY
Q: In which year was the first bikini worn in Britain? A: 1950
Q: The British hit parade was first published in 1952, what was the first record to be number one? A: HERE IN MY HEART
Q: "What was advertised with the slogan ""Nice One Cyril""?" A: BREAD
