Q: Which American-born Sinclair won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1930? A: Sinclair Lewis
Q: Where in England was Dame Judi Dench born? A: York
Q: In which decade did Billboard magazine first publish and American hit chart? A: 30s
Q: From which country did Angola achieve independence in 1975? A: Portugal
Q: Which city does David Soul come from? A: Chicago
Q: Who won Super Bowl XX? A: Chicago Bears
Q: Which was the first European country to abolish capital punishment? A: Norway
Q: In which country did he widespread use of ISDN begin in 1988? A: Japan
Q: What is Bruce Willis' real first name? A: Walter
Q: Which William wrote the novel Lord Of The Flies? A: Golding
Q: Which innovation for the car was developed by Prince Henry of Prussia in 1911? A: Windshield wipers
Q: How is musician William Lee Conley better known? A: Big Bill Broonzy
Q: How is Joan Molinsky better known? A: Joan Rivers
Q: In which branch of the arts is Patricia Neary famous? A: Ballet
Q: Which country is Europe's largest silk producer? A: Italy
Q: The VS-300 was a type of what? A: Helicopter
Q: At which university did Joseph Goebbels become a doctor of philosophy? A: Heidelberg
Q: Which prince is Queen Elizabeth II's youngest son? A: Edward
Q: When did the founder of Jehovah's Witnesses say the world would end? A: 1914
Q: Who found the remains of the Titanic? A: Robert Ballard
Q: Who was the only Spice Girl not to have a middle name? A: Posh Spice
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Algeria? A: DZ
Q: How did Jock die in Dallas? A: Helicopter accident
Q: What star sign is Michael Caine? A: Pisces
Q: Who wrote the novel Evening Class? A: Maeve Binchy
Q: Which country does the airline Air Pacific come from? A: Fiji
Q: In which branch of the arts does Allegra Kent work? A: Ballet
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with Billy, Don't Be A Hero? A: Bo Donaldson & The Heywoods
Q: Banting and Best pioneered the use of what? A: Insulin
Q: Who directed the movie La Dolce Vita? A: Federico Fellini
Q: Which country does the airline LACSA come from? A: Costa Rica
Q: Who directed 2001: A Space Odyssey? A: Stanley Kubrick
Q: Which is the largest of the Japanese Volcano Islands? A: Iwo Jima
Q: Ezzard Charles was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Who was the first woman to make a solo flight across the Atlantic? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: Which port lies between Puget Sound and Lake Washington? A: Seattle
Q: In which city were Rotary Clubs set up in 1905? A: Chicago
Q: Who became US Vice President when Spiro Agnew resigned? A: Gerald Ford
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Billy Crystal born? A: 1940s
Q: Which George invented the Kodak roll-film camera? A: Eastman
Q: Which series had the characters Felix Unger and Oscar Madison? A: The Odd Couple
Q: Who along with Philips developed the CD in the late 70s? A: Sony
Q: Where is the multinational Nestle based? A: Switzerland
Q: Do You Know Where You're Going To? was the theme from which film? A: Mahogany
Q: 19969 was the Chinese year of which creature? A: Rat
Q: In the 90s how many points have been awarded for finishing second in a Grand Prix? A: 6
Q: Stapleton international airport is in which US state? A: Colorado
Q: What was Kevin Kline's first movie? A: Sophie's Choice
Q: Which actor had a Doberman Pinscher called Kirk? A: William Shatner
Q: What day of the week was the Wall Street Crash? A: Thursday
Q: The US signed a treaty with which country to allow the construction of the Panama Canal? A: Columbia
Q: What was Prince's last No 1 of the 80s? A: Batdance
Q: Man In The Mirror first featured on which Michel Jackson album? A: Bad
Q: Where was the first battle with US involvement in the Korean War? A: Suwon
Q: On which Caribbean island did Princess Diana spend he first Christmas after her divorce was announced? A: Barbuda
Q: In which decade was Arnold Schwarzenegger born? A: 1950s
Q: Which musical featured the song Thank Heaven for Little Girls? A: Gigi
Q: The Queen Elizabeth liner was destroyed by fire in the 70s in which harbour? A: Hong Kong
Q: What breed of dog did Columbo own? A: Basset hound
Q: What was the first movie western called? A: Kit Carson
Q: Which Oscar-winning actress was born on exactly the same day as actress Lindsay Wagner? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Which Amendment to the Constitution brought in prohibition in 1920? A: 18th
Q: Which oil scandal hit the US in 1924? A: Teapot Dome Scandal
Q: Phil Collins appeared in which Spielberg film with Robin Williams? A: Hook
Q: 1998 was the Chinese year of which creature? A: Tiger
Q: Which country does musician Alfred Brendel come from? A: Austria
Q: Theodore Francis international airport is in which US state? A: Rhode Island
Q: In which soap did Demi Moore find fame? A: General Hospital
Q: To the nearest million, what is the population of London, England? A: 7 million
Q: What did Clarice Cliff create? A: Pottery
Q: Which James Bond film features a song by Louis Armstrong? A: On Her Majesty's Secret Service
Q: In what year were US ground troops first dispatched to Vietnam? A: 1965
Q: In 1999 Anna Kournikova signed a lucrative contract to model what? A: Bras
Q: Which member of the Monkees came from Washington DC? A: Peter Tork
Q: Which ship was sunk by a German submarine in 1915 with a loss of 1400 lives including 128 Americans? A: Lusitania
Q: In what decade were video recorders first developed? A: 50s
Q: Who had the noels Spy Hook and Spy Line published in the 80s? A: Len Deighton
Q: the first credit cards were for use in what type of establishments? A: Restaurants
Q: In which country was Ursula Andrews born? A: Switzerland
Q: What was CBS TV news broadcaster Walter Cronkite's stock closing phrase? A: And that's the way it is
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with Let Your Love Flow? A: Bellamy Brothers
Q: Which state renewed Mike Tyson's boxing license in 1998? A: Nevada
Q: Neil Armstrong was a pilot in which war? A: Korean
Q: Which English-born US citizen hosted Masterpiece theater? A: Alistair Cooke
Q: Nickelodeon was founded in 1979 by which company? A: Warner Amex
Q: Which element along with polonium did the Curies discover? A: Radium
Q: In The Banana Splits what sort of animal was Snorky? A: Elephant
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 hit with Can't Fight This Feeling? A: REO Speedwagon
Q: Which parallel was the truce line in the Korean War? A: 38th Parallel
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter is between A and D? A: S
Q: Which musical featured the song Flash Bang, Wallop? A: Half
Q: What was Hitchcock's first sound movie? A: Blackmail
Q: Which newspaper did Jackie Kennedy work for just before her marriage? A: Washington Times Herald
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Turkey? A: TR
Q: Who wrote The Turn Of The Screw in the 19th century and The Ambassadors in the 20th? A: Henry James
Q: Which American nuclear submarine was the first to sail across the North Pole under the ice cap? A: Nautilus
Q: What was John Glenn/'s first spacecraft called? A: Friendship 7
Q: Which branch of medicine is concerned with disorders of the blood? A: Haematology
Q: Where was The Iron Triangle? A: Vietnam
Q: What is the correct name of laughing gas? A: Nitrous oxide
Q: What is the distance between bases on a little league baseball field? A: 60 feet
Q: How many home runs did baseball great Ty Cobb hit in the three world series in which he played? A: None
Q: In cross-country bike racing, what do the initials BMX represent? A: Bicycle moto x (cross)
Q: After retiring as a player, with what team did baseball great Babe Ruth spend one year as a coach? A: The Brooklyn Dodgers in 1938
Q: What is the maximum weight permitted for calves in rodeo calf-roping competition? A: 350 pounds. The minimum is 200 pounds
Q: What baseball player hit the only home run of his 212-year major league career off his own brother? A: Joe Nickro in 1976. Nickro, a pitcher with the Houston Astros, hit a four-bagger off his brother Phil, who was pitching fro the Atlanta Braves. Houston won the game, 4-3
Q: Brooks Robinson and Carl Yastrzemski hold the major league baseball record for playing the greatest number of seasons with the same team. How many years did they play-- and with what teams? A: 23 years. Third baseman Robinson played with the Baltimore Orioles from 1955 to 1977; Carl Yastrzemski, outfielder/first baseman, played with the Boston Red Sox from 1961 to 1983
Q: Under the rules outlined in the charter of the International Olympic Committee, how much pure gold must there be in each gold medal awarded to first-place winners? A: At least 6 grams. Silver medals must be at least .925 sterling silver
Q: Who was the famous great-great-grandfather of San Francisco 49er quarterback Steve Young? A: Mormon leader Brigham Young
Q: How many of the four Grand Slam trophies in tennis are gold; how many are silver? A: Only the Wimbledon trophy is gold; the others--for the U.S. Open, the French Open and the Australian Open--are sliver
Q: "What breakfast food gets its name from the German word for ""stirrup""?" A: The Bagel
Q: What popular drink did a Dutch medical professor produce in his laboratory while trying to come up with a blood cleanser that could be sold in drugstores? A: Gin
Q: On what vegetable did an ancient Egyptian place his right hand when taking an oath? A: The onion. Its round shape symbolized eternity
Q: What American city produces most of the egg rolls sold in grocery stores in the United States? A: Houston Texas
Q: Italy leads the world in pasta consumption with 61.7 pounds eaten per person per year. What country is second? A: Venezuela, where the annual pasta consumption is 27.9 pounds
Q: When Birdseye introduced the first frozen food in 1930, what did the company call it/ A: Frosted food
Q: Which 100-mile long waterway links the Mediterranean and the Red Sea? A: Suez Canal
Q: In which country is the Aswan Dam? A: Egypt
Q: Where did Idi Amin rule from 1971-1979? A: Uganda
Q: Which country has the rand as its currency? A: South Africa
Q: What is the former name of the People's Republic of Venin? A: Dohomey
Q: In which country are Tangier and Casablanca? A: Morocco
Q: Who was the Egyptian president who was assassinated in 1981? A: Sadat
Q: Which country was called Upper Volta until 1984? A: Burkina Faso
Q: Who was the Egyptian king whose tomb an treasures were discovered in the Valley of the Kings in 1922? A: Tutankhamen
Q: Name the East African country which lies on the equator. A: Kenya
Q: What are the two main arms of the River Nile called? A: Blue Nile and White Nile
Q: In which country did King Hassan II ascend the throne in 1961? A: Morocco
Q: Which British general was killed at Khartoum in 1885? A: Gordon
Q: On the border of which two countries is Victoria Falls? A: Zambia and Zimbabwe
Q: What is the name of the volcanic valley that runs from the Sinai peninsula to central Mozambique? A: Great Rift Valley
Q: Which actor won an Academy Award for his performance in The African Queen? A: Humphrey Bogart
Q: Who wrote the novel Cry, the Beloved Country about South Africa? A: Alan Paton
Q: What is the capital of Kenya? A: Nairobi
Q: From which European country did Angola achieve independence in 1975? A: Portugal
Q: Which country mainly makes up the Horn of Africa? A: Somalia
Q: What is the capital of Sierra Leone? A: Freetown
Q: Which country is the island of Zanzibar part of? A: Tanzania
Q: What is Africa's largest country? A: Sudan
Q: Which African country is bordered by Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Mali? A: Burkino Faso
Q: Who was the woman sentenced to six years in jail after the murder of Stompei Seipi? A: Winnie Mandela
Q: In which country are the towns of Gweru and Kwekwe? A: Zimbabwe
Q: Who was the founder of the Back to Africa movement who largely inspired Rastafarianism? A: Marcus Garvey
Q: Which African country is sandwiched between Ghana and Benin? A: Togo
Q: The Zambesi and which other river define the borders of Matabeleland? A: Limpopo
Q: In which mountains are Camp David? A: Appalachian
Q: "Which song say, ""The words of the prophet are written on the subway walls?""" A: Sound of Silence
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film A View To A Kill? A: Duran Duran
Q: In which country did General Jaruzelski impose marital law in 1981? A: Poland
Q: Who won the Oscar for directing It Happened One Night? A: Frank Capra
Q: Hellenikon international airport is in which country? A: Greece
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 with Lightnin' Strikes? A: Lou Christie
Q: In which year was CNN founded? A: 1980
Q: Who was President Reagan's Secretary for Defense from 1987 to 1989? A: Frank Carlucci
Q: Which famous brother of Talia Shire does not share her last name? A: Francis Ford Coppola
Q: In basketball where do the Celtics come from? A: Boston
Q: Which Disney film had the theme tune A Whole New World? A: Aladdin
Q: What does MG sand for in Booker T & The MG's? A: Memphis Group
Q: Florence Ballard was a member of which girl group? A: Supremes
Q: Who was born first, Susan Sarandon or Glenn Close? A: Susan Sarandon
Q: Who wrote the novel The Go Between? A: L. P. Hartley
Q: In which musical do the sweeps sing Chim Chim Cheree? A: Mary Poppins
Q: Who had a big 60s No 1 with Tossin' and Turnin'? A: Bobby Lewis
Q: Sam Phillips was owner of which legendary recording studio? A: Sun
Q: Which actor played Maxwell Smart? A: Don Adams
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter on the same line is between C and B? A: V
Q: Lunar 10's Lunar Excursion Module was named after which famous character? A: Snoopy
Q: In which decade did golfer Gary Player last win the British Open? A: 70s
Q: Sarah FitzGerald has been a 90s world champion in which sport? A: Squash
Q: Where was the peace treaty signed that brought World War I to an end? A: Versailles
Q: Which Welsh singer was invited to sing at the White House on Millennium Eve? A: Tom Jones
Q: Which company was responsible for the oil spill in Alaska in 1989? A: Exxon
Q: What date is Father's Day? A: 3rd Sunday in June
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was the FBI set up? A: 1900s
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Dan Aykroyd born? A: 50s
Q: Which American wrote The Game of Chess in 1959? A: Bobby Fischer
Q: Which leader did Hitler meet in the Brenner Pass in WWII? A: Mussolini
Q: Which company first manufactured the electric toothbrush? A: Squibb
Q: Who lived under the pseudonym of Harriet Brown in New York form the 40s to the 90s? A: Greta Garbo
Q: Which actor bought the island of Tetiaroa? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Between 1952 and 1954 did the number of TV stations in the USA double, triple or quadruple? A: Triple
Q: What was Wham!'s first No 1? A: Wake Me Up Before You Go Go
Q: Which musical featured the song You'll Never Walk Alone? A: Carousel
Q: In which year was Bloody Sunday in Londonderry? A: 1972
Q: The first untethered space walk took place from which space craft? A: Challenger
Q: What was the main color of a Storm trooper in Star Wars? A: White
Q: Richard Nixon was Vice President to which US state? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: Luxor international airport is in which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which country did Albert Einstein move to as the Nazis rose to power? A: America
Q: In the 90s how many points have been awarded for finishing first in a Grand Prix? A: 10
Q: Which lawyer made Raymond Burr famous? A: Perry Mason
Q: Which broadcasting company did Edward J Noble found? A: ABC
Q: In which decade did the Jackson 5 sign to Motown? A: 1960s
Q: How many vice presidents did Franklin D Roosevelt have? A: Three
Q: In which state is Harrah's Auto Collection situated? A: Nevada
Q: What was the name of Gene Autry's horse? A: Champion
Q: Which city has a sports team of Steelers and team of Pirates? A: Pittsburgh
Q: What did Fort Dearborn, Indian Territory change its name to? A: Chicago, Illinois
Q: Bill Berry retired through ill health as a drummer in which band? A: REM
Q: Leslie Nielsen trained in which of the armed services in WWII? A: Royal Canadian
Q: What went with Blood and Sweat in the name of the 60s rock band? A: Tears
Q: Which musical featured the song I Feel Pretty? A: West Side Story
Q: Who produced the first Jetliner in 1957? A: Boeing
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was James Caan born? A: 1930s
Q: In which country is the deepwater port of Trondheim? A: Norway
Q: In which state is Camp David? A: Maryland
Q: What was the Statue of Liberty originally called? A: Liberty Enlightening the World
Q: Who sang the Bond theme form From Russia With Love? A: Matt Monro
Q: Which company was responsible for the oil spill in New York harbor in 1990? A: Exxon
Q: In which country was Arnold Schwarzenegger born? A: Austria
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Don't You Want Me? A: Human League
Q: Which star of Hannah And Her Sisters has a child called Free? A: Barbara Hershey
Q: Who had 70s hits with Have You Seen Her and Oh Girl? A: Chi-Lites
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Father's Day first celebrated? A: 1910s
Q: "What was the name of the ""girl with kaleidoscope eyes"" in a Beatles song?" A: Lucy
Q: Will Rogers airport was built in which US state? A: Oklahoma
Q: What writer was expelled from West Point for showing up for a public parade wearing only a white belt and gloves? A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: "What couple live next door to Dagwood and Blondie Bumstead in ""Blondie""?" A: Herb and Tootsie Woodley
Q: Who was the Lone Ranger's great grand-nephew? A: The Green Hornet
Q: "Psychologist William Moulton Marston, inventor of the polygraph, or lie detector, also created a famous comic book heroine,. Who was she?""" A: Wonder Woman
Q: """Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again,"" was the first line of what Daphne du Maurier novel?" A: Rebecca
Q: "What is the actual title of Leonardo da Vinci's ""Mona Lisa""?" A: La Gioconda
Q: In Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's famous poem, Hiawatha, what was the name of Hiawatha's wife? A: Minnehaha
Q: How many husbands did the Wife of Bath have, as reported in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales? A: Five
Q: What was the name of the she-ape that rescued the infant Tarzan and raised him to be Lord of the Apes? A: Kala
Q: What was the title of Mac West's 1959 autobiography? A: Goodness Had Nothing to Do With It
Q: "What words did Lewis Carroll combine to come up with the term ""chortle"" in Through a Looking-Glass?" A: Chuckle and snort
Q: "Shakespeare wrote that ""brevity is the soul of wit."" What did noted wit Dorothy Parker say it was?" A: The soul of lingerie
Q: What is the native country of Agatha Chrisitie's detective Hercule Poirot? A: Belgium
Q: What was the hometown of Sgt. Snorkel in Beetle Bailey? A: Pork Corners, Kansas
Q: In the Robin Hood stories, what was the real name of Little John? A: John Little
Q: The Last Of The Really Great Whangdoodles and Mandy are children's books written by what well-known Oscar-winning actress? A: Julie Andrews
Q: By what pseudonym is writer Frederick Dannay Manfred Bennington Lee better known? A: Ellery Queen
Q: How many times did Ernest Hemingway revise the last page of A Farewell To Arms? A: 39 times
Q: What was art-world guru Andy Warhol's name at birth? A: Andrew Warhola
Q: What was the maiden name of Blondie Bumstead, the comic-strip wife of hapless Dagwood Bumstead? A: Boopadoop
Q: What famous comic strip character was inspired by the 1936 Henry Fonda film Trail of the Lonesome Pine? A: Al Capp's Li'l Abner
Q: What was the original name of the orphan created in 1924 by cartoonist Harold Gray in the comic strip we know as Little Orphan Annie? A: Otto
Q: What was the name of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's pet golden cocker spaniel ? A: Flush
Q: The title of what poetic drama by Robert Browning was used to name a Kentucky town? A: Pippa Passes
Q: What did L. Fran Baum, author of the The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, call his home in Hollywood? A: Ozcot
Q: What exotic city was featured in National Geographic magazine's first photo story in 1905? A: Lhasa, Tibet
Q: How much time did Jonah spend in the belly of the whale? A: Three days and three nights
Q: For what event in February 1964 did evangelist Billy Graham break his strict rule against watching TV on Sunday? A: The Beatles' first appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show
Q: How tall was Goliath, the Philistine giant slain by David with a stone hurled from a sling? A: Six cubits and a span,
Q: "In the Bible, for what ""price"" did Esau sell his birthright to his younger twin brother, Jacob?" A: Pottage of lentils (Genesis 25:29-34)
Q: What bird is named for the apostle Peter? A: The petrel, from a diminutive form of Petrus, or Peter, in Latin
Q: Who is the only woman whose age is mentioned in the Bible? A: Sarah
Q: What is the most common name in the Bible--shared by 32 people in the Old Testament and one in the New Testament? A: Zechariah
Q: In what language was the New Testament originally written? A: In Greek
Q: What was the total population of the world at the time of Christ? A: About 200 million
Q: Who were the parents of King Solomon? A: David and Bathsheba
Q: What is the name of Dr. Seuss's egg-hatching elephant? A: Horton
Q: Who was Clark Kent's high school sweetheart? A: Lana Lang
Q: "What famous book begins: ""Chug, chug, chug. Puff, puff, puff""?" A: The Little Engine that Could
Q: To whom did Herman Melville dedicate his novel, Moby Dick? A: Nathanial Hawthorne
Q: "Under what assumed name did Oscar Wilde live out the last three years of his life, in ""France?" A: Sebastian Melmoth
Q: What was Scarlett O'Hara's real first name? A: Katie
Q: How many years did Robinson Crusoe spend shipwrecked on his island? A: 24
Q: "What one word was intentionally left out of the movie version of Mario Puzo's novel, ""The Godfather"". even though this word was the working title of the book?" A: Mafia
Q: In the comic strips, what was the name of Mandrake the Magician's giant partner? A: Lothar
Q: What was the name of the pig leader in George Orwell's Animal Farm? A: Napoleon
Q: Tess Trueheart is the wife of what comic strip character? A: Dick Tracy
Q: In the Little Orphan Annie comic strip, what was the name of Daddy Warbucks's Giant bodyguard who wore a turban? A: Punjab
Q: The Terror of the Monster was an early title for a best-selling novel which inspired one of the highest-grossing movies of the mid-70's. Under what name did it eventually terrify the reading and film going public? A: Jaws
Q: Who wrote the story upon which Alfred Hitchcock based his 1963 suspense film The Birds? A: Daphne du Maurier, best known for Rebecca
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when World War II broke out? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: How was Oflag IVC prison camp better known? A: Colditz
Q: Who succeeded Theodore Roosevelt as President? A: William Howard Taft
Q: To whom did the Bee Gees pay tribute in Tapestry Revisited? A: Carole King
Q: Who was born first, James Caan or Michael Douglas? A: James Caan
Q: In which country is the deepwater ort of Brindisi? A: Italy
Q: The word anchorman was credited by Sig Michelson about which CBS News Legend? A: Walter Cronkite
Q: Who wrote The Picture Of Dorian Gray? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film You Only Live Twice? A: Nancy Sinatra
Q: Who had a big 90s No 1 with This Is How We Do It? A: Montell Jordan
Q: Which national park, famous for aboriginal rock paintings, is near Darwin? A: Kakadu National Park
Q: In TV's All In The Family what was Mike and Gloria's son called? A: Joey
Q: Who sang with Crosby, Stills and Young? A: Graham Nash
Q: In which John Logie Baird invent television? A: 1920s
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film License To Kill? A: Gladys Knight
Q: Black or White came from which Michael Jackson album? A: Dangerous
Q: On a computer keyboard, which letter is between G ad J? A: H
Q: In which town or city was General Motors founded? A: Flint, Michigan
Q: In which country was the Russian Revolutionary Leon Trotsky murdered? A: Mexico
Q: Which duo had a 60s No 1 with A World Without Love? A: Peter & Gordon
Q: In which US state was Tennessee Williams born? A: Mississippi
Q: Who was Israeli Prime Minister from 1969 to 1974? A: Golda Meir
Q: Bob Gaudio and Nick Massi sang with which group? A: The Four Seasons
Q: In which country was Angelica Huston born? A: Ireland
Q: What were the first two names of 'Cannonball' Adderley? A: Julian Edwin
Q: Carrasco international airport is in which country? A: Uruguay
Q: Which record company signed Fabian? A: Chancellor
Q: Ron Bower and John Williams set a speed record for going round the world in a what? A: Helicopter
Q: What was the profession of New Yorker Garry Winogrand? A: Photographer
Q: Amelia Earhart was born in which state? A: Kansas
Q: Who was Theodore Roosevelt's Vice President between 1901 and 1905? A: No one
Q: What was Phil Collins' last UK No 1 of the 80s? A: Another Day in Paradise
Q: What was Al Pacino's first movie? A: Me Natalie
Q: In which year did Alcock and Brown make their Atlantic crossing? A: 1919
Q: Which movie director was born on exactly the same day as actor Tommy Lee Jones? A: Oliver Stone
Q: Which singer wrote the musical Someone Like You? A: Petula Clark
Q: What state had its bi-centenary of joining the Union a year after North Carolina? A: Rhode Island
Q: With which instrument was Charlie Christian associated? A: Guitar
Q: In which country is the Howrah bridge? A: India
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Brunei? A: BRU
Q: What was Oliver Hardy's real first name? A: Norvell
Q: Benito Juarez international airport is in which country? A: Mexico
Q: How old would Rocky Marciano have been had he lived to the end of the 20th century? A: 76
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with The Night The Lights Went Out In Georgia? A: Vicki Lawrence
Q: Which country does the airline Gronlandsfly come from? A: Greenland
Q: Which famous actress was born on exactly the same day as gymnast Olga Korbut? A: Debra Winger
Q: The diet of what mythical monster periodically included seven youths and seven maidens? A: The Minotaur's
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the goddess of the rainbow? A: Iris
Q: In ancient Athens, what tree was considered sacred -- with all its fruit belonging to the state, and death the penalty for anyone caught cutting one down? A: The olive tree
Q: What legendary fire-breathing female monster had a lion's head, a goat's body and a dragon's tail? A: The Chimera
Q: According to legend, who fired the arrow that hit Achilles in the heel, his only vulnerable spot? A: Paris
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the queen of the underworld and wife of Hades? A: Persephone
Q: "Which entertainer said, ""He was into animal husbandry--until they caught him at it?" A: Tom Lehrer
Q: "According to hippy guru Dr. Timothy Leary, what did you do before you ""drop out?""" A: Turn on, tune in
Q: What is Nelson Mandela's middle name? A: Rolihlahla
Q: How old would James Dean have been had he lived to the end of the 20th century? A: 68
Q: Barry Clifford found fame discovering what? A: Sunken pirate ships
Q: What was Christopher Reeve's first movie? A: Gray Lady Down
Q: The Porcaro Brothers featured in which group? A: Toto
Q: Which city was called Leninakan until 1990? A: A: Kumayri
Q: What is Iggy Pop's real name? A: James Osterberg
Q: What did Franz Kafka do for a day job? A: Worked in insurance
Q: Dorval International airport is in which country? A: Canada
Q: In square miles how big is lake Michigan? A: 22,300
Q: Who wrote the song Momma Told Me Not To Come? A: Randy Newman
Q: What star sign is Harrison Ford? A: Cancer
Q: Who founded the Organization of Afro American Unity? A: Malcolm X
Q: Which NASA space probe was launched to Venus in 1989? A: Magellan
Q: Harry Weinstein became a world champion under which name? A: Gary Kasparov
Q: Who directed Good Morning Vietnam? A: Barry Levinson
Q: What was Bette Davis's real first name? A: Ruth
Q: In which sport did Hollywood star Sonja Henie win Olympic Gold? A: Ice Skating
Q: In which decade was Alzheimer's disease first clinically described? A: First decade
Q: What star sign is Glenda Jackson? A: Taurus
Q: Who won Super Bowl XXV? A: New York Giants
Q: Robert Mueller Municipal Airport is in which US state? A: Texas
Q: In what year were women first admitted to Harvard? A: 1969
Q: Who had 70s No 1 hit with Show and Tell? A: Al Wilson
Q: Balice international airport is in which country? A: Poland
Q: What was the first name of the original food manufacturer Mr. Heinz? A: Henry
Q: Panama proclaimed independence in 1903 from which country? A: Columbia
Q: How old was Ronald Reagan when he became US President? A: 69
Q: Which Iowa-born artist painted American Gothic and Spring Turning? A: Grant Wood
Q: Which country does the airline Garuda come from? A: Indonesia
Q: To ten thousand square miles, what is the area of Idaho? A: 82,751 square miles
Q: Sarah Vaughan first joined which band as singer? A: Earl Hines
Q: Elmas international airport is in which country? A: Italy
Q: Which pioneering aviator had a plane called Percival Gull? A: Jean Batten
Q: Which British political figure became Baroness Kesteven? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Henri Becquerel shared a Nobel prize for his work in discovering what? A: Radioactivity
Q: Who was the first white music star to record on Atlantic, through its sister label Atco? A: Bobby Darin
Q: Who took the assumed name Sebastian Melmoth when living in Paris? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Who signed the Pacific Security Treaty with the USA in 1951? A: Australia & New Zealand
Q: How many miles long is the canal which links the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans? A: 50 miles
Q: Who founded the off-Broadway theater where Hair had its premier? A: Joseph Papp
Q: Established in 1919, which is the world's oldest surviving airline? A: KLM
Q: "Which US First Lady said, ""No one can make you feel interior unless you consent?""" A: Eleanor Roosevelt
Q: Who won super bowl X? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Who brought to an end Jahangir Khan's long unbeaten run of success in squash in the 80s? A: Ross Norman
Q: Jomo Kenyatta was born into which tribe? A: Kikuyu
Q: Bryan Abrams, Sam Walters, Mark Calderon and Kevin Thornton formed which group? A: Color Me Badd
Q: When was the Scrabble World championship first held? A: 1991
Q: Arlanda international airport is in which country? A: Sweden
Q: What year was the centenary of Arkansas joining the Union? A: 1936
Q: Which singer formed his own Berlee record label? A: Del Shannon
Q: Who duetted with Barbra Streisand on Till I Loved You in 1988? A: Don Johnson
Q: What was first published on 21st December 1913 in the New York World? A: A crossword puzzle
Q: What finally knocked One Sweet Day off the No 1 position in the charts in the 90s? A: Because You Loved Me
Q: In which American state are the Merril Collection and the Burke Museum of Fine Arts? A: Texas
Q: Which actor paid $93,500 for the baseball which rolled between Bill Buckner's legs in game six of the 1986 World Series? A: Charlie Sheen
Q: Who was Theodore Roosevelt's Vice President between 1905 and 1909? A: Charles W. Fairbanks
Q: Which nation was the first to ratify the United Nations charter in 1945? A: Nicaragua
Q: What is the Alaskan terminus of the Alaskan Highway? A: Fairbanks
Q: What was Buster Keaton's actual first name? A: Joseph
Q: From 1903 to 1958, every Pope--bar one--took which name? A: Pius
Q: Which brothers were Warner Bros' first major record success? A: Everly
Q: What was the title of Kitty Kelley's book about Elizabeth Taylor? A: Elizabeth Taylor: The Last Star
Q: What are the international registration letters for a vehicle form Jordan? A: HKJ
Q: In which country was Julie Christie born? A: India
Q: Which artist created the Katzenjammer Kids? A: Rudolph Dirks
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with Johnny Angel? A: Shelley Fabares
Q: Which country does the airline VIASA come from? A: Venezuela
Q: Who directed Back To The Future? A: Robert Zemeckis
Q: Where was Che Guevara killed? A: Bolivia
Q: Daryl Dragon used which name when he formed a 70s duo? A: Captain
Q: Which has the highest population, Rode island or South Dakota? A: Rhode Island
Q: What was Oliver Reed's real first name? A: Robert
Q: Which country does the airline Sansa come from? A: Costa Rica
Q: Who wrote the song Harper Valley PTA? A: Tom T. Hall
Q: What was Elvis's last No 1 in his own lifetime? A: Suspicious Minds
Q: Who choreographed the first performance of Copland's Rodeo? A: Agnes de Mille
Q: Who wrote Riders of the Purple Sage? A: Zane Gray
Q: What were D W Griffith's first names? A: David Wark
Q: "Who created the line, ""Happiness is a warm puppy?" A: Charles Schulz
Q: Who directed The Big Sleep and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes? A: Howard Hawks
Q: In which year was the talkie The Jazz Singer released? A: 1927
Q: Alborg Roedslet international airport is in which country? A: Denmark
Q: What was Elton John's first US No 1 hit? A: Crocodile Rock
Q: In which decade was the Oral Roberts University founded at Tulsa? A: 1960s
Q: In which English city is the Burrows Toy Museum? A: Bath
Q: On which label did the Beach boys record most of their 60s hits? A: Capitol
Q: Whose musical works included Composition For Orchestra and Philomel? A: Milton Babbit
Q: What was the first state to join the Union in the 20th century? A: Oklahoma
Q: Where were the 2004 Summer Olympic Games held? A: Athens
Q: What did Arthur Blessitt carry with him on an around-the-world walk taking in 277 nations? A: A wooden cross
Q: Where in the former Soviet Union was Yul Brynner born? A: Siberia
Q: When she died how old was Karen Carpenter? A: 32
Q: "According to the modern Olympics founder Baron de Coubertin, ""The essential thing is not conquering but..."" what?" A: Fighting well
Q: In which state was Charles Schulz born? A: Minnesota
Q: "Who wrote, ""What is this life if full of care, We have no time to stand and stare?""" A: W H Davies
Q: In which decade was Charles Schulz born? A: 1930s
Q: In what year was Oliver Stone born? A: 1946
Q: What is Axl Rose's real name? A: William Bailey
Q: What disability did singer Al Hibbler have? A: He was blind
Q: "Which writer said, "" An atheist is a man who has no invisible means of support?""" A: John Buchan
Q: Which country does the airline Ansett come from? A: Australia
Q: Where is New York's Empire State College located? A: Saratoga Springs
Q: Spear of the Nation was an armed wing of which group? A: ANC
Q: Where in Italy did a US military aircraft slice through the steel wire of a cable car in 1998? A: Cavalese
Q: What star sign is shared by Meatloaf and Luciano Pavarotti? A: Libra
Q: Where was Pablo Casals buried before he was finally laid to rest in Spain? A: Puerto Rico
Q: According to Dateline figures, the highest percentage of male clients are in which profession? A: Accountancy
Q: Santander international airport is in which country? A: Spain
Q: In which year was Nigel Mansell Indy Car Champion? A: 1993
Q: Thomas Marshal was Vice President to which US President? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Which year was the first after 1927 that the USA lost the Ryder Cup on home soil? A: 1987
Q: Ellen Church is recognized as being the first female what? A: Air Hostess
Q: Which country does the airline Avensa come from? A: Venezuela
Q: What was the USA's biggest attack of the Vietnam War when it took place in February 1967? A: Operation Junction City
Q: What was Michael Keaton's first movie? A: Night Shift
Q: What is Uma Thurman's middle name? A: Karuna
Q: Which liner launched in 1934 was the largest of her time? A: Queen Mary
Q: What was the name of NASA's manned space project whose astronauts were chosen in 1959? A: Project Mercury
Q: In which country was Anjelica Huston born? A: Ireland
Q: Who wrote the novel Delta Connection? A: Hammond Innes
Q: In the 70s George Lee was a world champion in which sport? A: Gliding
Q: Who preceded Hosni Mubarak as President of Egypt? A: Anwar El-Sadat
Q: What instrument is associated with Illinois-born John Lewis? A: Piano
Q: What type of aid was developed my Miller Hutchinson in the early years of the 20th century? A: Hearing Aid
Q: "Who said, ""My whole life has been one of rejection. Women. Dogs. Comic strips.""" A: Charles Schulz
Q: John Singer Sargent worked in which branch of the arts? A: Painting
Q: Cuscatlan international airport is in which country? A: El Salvador
Q: Who was Pope for the shortest length of time in the 20th century? A: John Paul I
Q: What was Gene Kelly's middle name? A: Curran
Q: What was the profession of William Eugene Smith? A: Photographer
Q: Which country does the airline Pluna come form? A: Uruguay
Q: Who directed A Passage To India? A: David Lean
Q: What is Gregory Peck's real first name? A: Eldred
Q: Golfer Bobby Jones was born in which state? A: Georgia
Q: What was the world's first atomic-powered ship called? A: Lenin
Q: Which soap boasted a cafe called the Hot Biscuit? A: Dallas
Q: Which architect designed the Seagram Building, New York City? A: Philip Johnson
Q: Which gossip columnist was born in the same day as Sir Alexander Fleming who discovered penicillin? A: Louella Parsons
Q: In what year was the first performance of Copland's ballet Rodeo? A: 1942
Q: Ferihegy international airport is in which country? A: Hungary
Q: Who was the defending champion when Virginia Wade won the Wimbledon singles? A: Chris Evert
Q: Who is the youngest female tennis player to win the US Open? A: Tracey Austin
Q: How many 'victories' did The Red Baron claim in aerial dogfights? A: 80
Q: Which great guitarist had the first names Aaron Thibodaux? A: T-Bone Walker
Q: Who first coined the term paradigm for all the factors that influence the scientist's research? A: TS Kuhn
Q: In which country was Sam Neill born? A: N. Ireland
Q: What was Dorothy Parker's maiden name? A: Rothschild
Q: In which month in 1997 was The Notorious B.I.G. gunned down? A: March
Q: What was the official occupation of Sir Anthony Blunt who was unmasked as a Soviet spy in 1979? A: Art Historian
Q: Which famous name was accused f the abduction of Stompie Seipei? A: Winnie Mandela
Q: What was the highest rank Charles Lindbergh attained? A: Brigadier General
Q: Who was the second person to make a solo transatlantic flight? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: Who became commanding general of the First Armored Corps in 1941? A: George Patton
Q: Who was the third wife of the leader of China's Long March? A: Jiang Qing
Q: In 1985 Terry Waite returned to Beirut after securing the release of four British hostages where? A: Libya
Q: Where did Ferdinand Marcos live in exile? A: Hawaii
Q: Which American led a team to put 10 people on the summit of Everest in 1990? A: James Whittaker
Q: UN Secretary Dag Hammarskjold was killed over which country? A: Congo
Q: What was the autobiography of the first president of non-Apartheid South Africa called? A: Long Walk To Freedom
Q: Which terrorist group murdered Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro? A: Red Brigade
Q: General Boris Gromov was the last Soviet soldier to leave where in 1989? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which politician's wife was acquitted in 1990 of defrauding US banks? A: Imelda Marcos
Q: In what year did Saddam Hussein become President of Iraq? A: 1979
Q: Who became chair of Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1989? A: Colin Powel
Q: Who became leader of the Bosnian Serbs in 1992? A: Radovan Karadzic
Q: Who was deputy commander of the 1983 US invasion of Grenada? A: Norman Schwarzkopf
Q: What was Mother Teresa's real first name? A: Agnes
Q: Which famous daughter was made chief designer at Chloe in 1997? A: Stella McCartney
Q: Which supermodel was married to Rod Stewart? A: Rachel Hunter
Q: Who was America's first world chess champion? A: Bobby Fischer
Q: Which Swiss-born Californian first used an amplifier with a guitar? A: Adolph Rickenbacker
Q: Who was chairman of the Watergate hearings? A: Sam Ervin
Q: Who was credited with popularizing the term rock 'n' roll? A: Alan Freed
Q: What were Gary Gilmore's final words before his execution in 1977? A: Let's do it
Q: In which country was Ivana Trump born and brought up? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Who wrote the stage musical Cabaret? A: Bob Fosse
Q: Flamenco dancer Joaquin Cortes hit the headlines in 1996 over his relationship with which supermodel? A: Naomi Campbell
Q: Which Italian fashion designer was murdered on the orders of his ex-wife? A: Gucci
Q: How old was George Gershwin when he died? A: 38
Q: Who was the first black man to receive the Nobel Peace Prize? A: Ralph Johnson Bunche
Q: Which golfer became only the fifth in history to win both the British and US Open championships in the same year, in 1982? A: Tom Watson
Q: How many times did tennis legend Jimmy Connors win the US Open in the 1970s? A: Three
Q: Which pop star did model Iman marry in 1992? A: David Bowie
Q: Which actress links Dorothy in The Golden Girls and Maude Findlay in Maude? A: Bea Arthur
Q: Which of the Friends cast has a son called Julian in real life? A: Lisa Kudrow
Q: What was the name of Jed's nephew in The Beverly Hillbillies? A: Jethro Bodine
Q: What was Green Acres called on radio? A: Granby's Green Acres
Q: Which 90s sitcom character was said to be a symbol of failing values which caused LA riots, according to Dan Quayle? A: Murphy Brown
Q: According to the series when was the Cheers bar founded? A: 1895
Q: Which sitcom with Vickie Lawrence was a spin-off from the Carol Burnett Show? A: Mama's Family
Q: Who was creator and executive producer of Magnum PI? A: Donald P. Bellisario
Q: What was the name of the vet in Daktari? A: Marsh Tracy
Q: Who bought CBS in 1929 and remained on the board until 1983? A: William S. Paley
Q: Which executive producer of Dream On is well known for films such as Trading Places? A: John Landis
Q: "To which interviewer did Richard Nixon say, ""I never cry except in public?" A: David Frost
Q: Who did Dick Van Dyke play in The Dick Van Dyke Show? A: Rob Petrie
Q: Which English actress and star of Primary Colors appeared as a guest in Cheers? A: Emma Thompson
Q: What was the first sitcom to reach No 1 in the Nielsen ratings? A: I Love Lucy
Q: Who in the singing Jackson family appeared in Different Strokes? A: Janet
Q: What was the first spin-off from The Beverly Hillbillies called? A: Petticoat Junction
Q: Which series was a spin off from the Golden Girls spin-off, Empty Nest? A: Nurses
Q: "Who said, ""Married men live longer than single men, but married men are more willing to die""?" A: Johnny Carson
Q: In Laverne & Shirley, what was Laverne's last name? A: De Fazio
Q: Which character did Burt Reynolds play in Evening Shade? A: Wood Newton
Q: Which comedian starred in the ABC sitcom Chicken Soup? A: Jackie Mason
Q: Who did Debbie play in The Debbie Reynolds Show? A: Debbie Thompson
Q: Who interviewed Dudley Moore about his illness in November 1999? A: Barbara Walters
Q: Dorothy, Rose, Sophia and who else formed the Golden Girls? A: Blanch
Q: Who first funded Sesame Street? A: Children's Television Workshop
Q: In Family Affair what was the butler called? A: French
Q: Which multi-millionaire was born the same day TV pioneer John Logie Baird died? A: Donald Trump
Q: In the Addams Family, what is Gomez's octopus called? A: Aristotle
Q: In the animation series, what was Godzilla's nephew called? A: Godzooky
Q: Which character did Betty White play in The Betty White Show? A: Joyce Whitman
Q: During the series Roseanne changed her name to Arnold from what? A: Barr
Q: Which hotel sitcom was based on the British series Fawlty Towers? A: Amanda's
Q: "Who said, ""It is better to die on your feet than live on your knees?""" A: Emiliano Zapata
Q: In which year did Tanganyika and Zanzibar merge to form Tanzania? A: 1964
Q: In which decade did motor car pioneer Henry Ford die? A: 1940s
Q: Ed Gagliardi, Al Greenwood and Dennis Elliot have all been in which group? A: Foreigner
Q: "Which song starts, ""On a dark desert highway?""" A: Hotel California
Q: For which movie did Katherine Hepburn win her third Oscar? A: The Lion in Winter
Q: What was Rambo's first name? A: John
Q: When did field hockey become an Olympic event for men? A: 1908
Q: How was Eleanor Gough McKay better known? A: Billie Holiday
Q: Who invented the world's first data-processing machine? A: Herman Hollerith
Q: Bill Cosby had a professional trial in which sport? A: Football
Q: What was the first film Alfred Hitchcock made in Hollywood? A: Rebecca
Q: What is the most common street name in the UK? A: High Street
Q: Bujumbura international airport is in which country? A: Burundi
Q: The painting The Scream was stolen form which city in 1994? A: Oslo
Q: What was Paul Newman's first movie? A: The Silver Chalice
Q: "Which 60s song starts, ""You've got a lot of nerve?""" A: Positively 4th Street
Q: Which University of Wisconsin has the highest enrolment figure? A: Madison
Q: What was the day job that Boris Yeltsin started out with? A: Builder
Q: How old was Harry Stevens when he married at the Caravilla Retirement Home, Wisconsin in 1984? A: 104
Q: What is Diane Keaton's real name? A: Diane Hall
Q: Which word used to be in the name of The San Francisco Ballet? A: Opera
Q: Which singer has appeared on the cover of Rolling Stone magazine 16 times? A: Mick Jagger
Q: What nationality were Mother Teresa's parents? A: Albanian
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with I'm Telling You Now? A: Freddie & The Dreamers
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from The Bahamas? A: BS
Q: Which philosopher wrote Eros and Civilization and One Dimensional Man? A: Herbert Marcuse
Q: To ten thousand square miles, what is the area of Pennsylvania? A: 44,820 square miles
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Sri Lanka? A: CL
Q: Who directed the movie East of Eden? A: Elia Kazan
Q: In which year did Count Basie die? A: 1984
Q: Which bridge is the subject of Hart Crane's The bridge? A: Brooklyn Bridge
Q: Who is credited with inventing the Tarzan yodel? A: Johnny Weissmuller
Q: Which musical featured the song How To Handle A Woman? A: Camelot
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Alec Baldwin born? A: 1950s
Q: In which state do most Cree Indians live in the USA? A: Montana
Q: Bob Dole trained for which profession although he didn't qualify? A: Doctor
Q: Out of 11 series of prime time seasons how many times did Happy days make the Nielsen Top Twenty? A: Eight
Q: Who wrote the novel Watership Down? A: Richard Adams
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Australia from 1983 - 1991? A: Bob Hawke
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was James Belushi born? A: 1950s
Q: On which river was the Kariba Dam built? A: Zambezi
Q: Detroit born Diana Earle became famous under which name? A: Diana Ross
Q: Who wrote God Bless America? A: Irving Berlin
Q: What was Sean Penn's first movie? A: Taps
Q: Who had and 80s NO 1 with The Tide is High? A: Blondie
Q: In which Bond film did Britt Ekland appear? A: The Man With The Golden Gun
Q: What is Mick Jagger's middle name? A: Philip
Q: Who had a No 1 hit single with Together Forever? A: Rick Astley
Q: Boxer Jack Dempsey hailed from which state? A: Colorado
Q: Which British liner was sunk by a German submarine in 1915? A: Lusitania
Q: Which role as 'the other woman' won Glenn Close her first Oscar nomination? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who wrote the novel The Godfather? A: Mario Puzo
Q: Vehicles from which country use the international registration letter S? A: Sweden
Q: Jack Sharkey was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: What was Marilyn Monroe's last film? A: The Misfits
Q: What was Bix Beiderbecke's principal musical instrument? A: Cornet
Q: US-born Adulyadej Bhumibol became king of which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: In 1971 Leonard Bernstein wrote a Mass in whose memory? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: Who had a big 50s No 1 with A Big Hunk O' Love? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Whose first hit was Maybellene in 1955? A: Chuck Berry
Q: What goes after Love Will Never Do on Janet Jackson's 1990 hit? A: Without you
Q: Which Gloria co-founded Ms magazine? A: Steinem
Q: A Fistfull of Dollars was filmed on location in which country? A: Italy
Q: Which country lies immediately to the south of Estonia? A: Latvia
Q: "Which TV series intro said, ""Return with us now to those thrilling days of yesteryear""?" A: The Lone Ranger
Q: In which year was the University of Alaska Anchorage founded? A: 1954
Q: What star sign is shared by peter Gabriel and Stevie Wonder? A: Taurus
Q: What was John Huston's last movie? A: The Dead
Q: Who won Super Bowl III? A: New York Jets
Q: What is Marie Osmond's real first name? A: Olive
Q: Who sang a solo at Prince Charles and Lady Di's wedding? A: Kiri Te Kanawa
Q: Calabar international airport is in which country? A: Nigeria
Q: "Who said, ""A man is only as old as the woman he feels?""" A: Groucho Marx
Q: Which country did Thor Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki set sail from on its journey to Eastern Polynesia? A: Peru
Q: Donna Gaines is better known by which name? A: Donna Summer
Q: Which element is named after Pierre and Marie Curie? A: Curium
Q: By the end of the 20th century how many times had Meryl Streep been nominated for an Oscar? A: Nine
Q: Both Richard and Karen Carpenter came fro which state? A: Connecticut
Q: What was Mr. Magoo's first name? A: Quincy
Q: Which rock star featured in Marvel's 50th issue of Marvel Premiere in 1979? A: Alice Cooper
Q: Who was runner-up when Jody Scheckter won motor racing's Formula One Championship? A: Gilles Villeneuve
Q: How many years after men's field hockey became an Olympic sport did the women's game become an Olympic event? A: 72
Q: In what year of the 1990s was baseball's World Series canceled? A: 1994
Q: Albert Giacometti found fame as what? A: Sculptor
Q: Who first flew in Friendship 7? A: John Glenn
Q: Who had a 50s No 1 with Stagger Lee? A: Lloyd Price
Q: Who wrote the novel Gentlemen Prefer Blondes? A: Anita Loos
Q: Which country does the airline Gulf Air come from? A: Bahrain
Q: What is Alistair Cooke's real first name? A: Alfred
Q: How is seriously rich Percy Miller better known? A: Master P
Q: How old was Laurel and Hardy producer Hal Roach when he died in 1992? A: 100
Q: Who was West German Chancellor from 1969 to 1974? Willy Brandt. A: Willy Brandt
Q: What sort of Menace was the 1999 Star Wars movie? A: Phantom
Q: What was the name of Drew Barrymore's character in E.T.? A: Gertie
Q: Which ER star played opposite Jenny Seagrove in Don' Go Breaking My Heart? A: Anthony Edwards
Q: Who played Rick Deckard in Blade Runner? A: Harrison Ford
Q: What was the fourth Alien film called? A: Alien Resurrection
Q: What number Star Trek movie was called The Wrath of Khan? A: II
Q: In Stepmom who played Susan Sarandon's daughter? A: Julia Roberts
Q: Which King did Leonardo Di Caprio play in The Man in the Iron Mask? A: Louis XIV
Q: Which role did Rupert Everett play in The Madness of King George? A: The Prince of Wales
Q: Which UK pop singer an environmental campaigner appeared in Dune? A: Sting
Q: What was Stanley Kubrick's final movie? A: Eyes Wide Shut
Q: Who tries to save the world from virtual reality in The Matrix? A: Keanu Reeves
Q: Which decade does Michael J Fox go back to in Back to the Future? A: 50s
Q: In which 90s movie did Al Pacino play retired Colonel Frank Slade? A: Scent of a Woman
Q: What is the name of Kate Winslet's character in Titanic? A: Rose
Q: Which spin-off from a 60s sitcom was a 1999 movie with Jeff Daniels and Christopher Lloyd? A: My Favorite Martian
Q: Who played the title role in Emma? A: Gwyneth Paltrow
Q: Who played Batman immediately before George Clooney? A: Val Kilmer
Q: Who played the young Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Star Wars prequel? A: Ewan McGregor
Q: Who played Drew Barrymore's stepmother in Ever After? A: Angelica Houston
Q: In which 1998 film did Bruce Willis lead a team to confront a deadly threat from outer space? A: Armageddon
Q: Which 1968 sci fi classic was based on The Sentinel by Arthur C Clarke? A: 2001: A Space Odyssey
Q: Which tough guy played Mr. Freeze in Batman & Robin? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: What was the subtitle of Terminator 2? A: Judgment Day
Q: Which 1996 film has its climax on 4th of July? A: Independence Day
Q: Which Apollo mission was filmed in 1995 with Tom Hanks? A: 13
Q: In which film did Susan Sarandon play Sister Helen Prejean? A: Dead Man Walking
Q: In which city does the action of the 1998 movie Godzilla take place? A: New York
Q: Which star of Cheers co-starred with ?Whoopi Goldberg in Made in America? A: Ted Danson
Q: What was Pierce Brosnan's first outing as 007? A: Goldeneye
Q: Which The Bridges of Madison County star became a father again aged 65? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who was the star of the dark thriller 8mm? A: Nicolas Cage
Q: Where was the 1990s version of Dickens' Great Expectations set? A: New York
Q: Which important US building has its roof ripped off in Superman II? A: The White House
Q: What is the name of the Darth Vader-to-be in the Star Wars Prequel, Episode 1? A: Anakin Skywalker
Q: What was the first sequel to Star Wars? A: The Empire strikes Back
Q: Who did Jane Fonda play in the 60s movie of the same name where she repeatedly lost her clothes. A: Barbarella
Q: Which veteran actress Katharine was the first actress to win four Oscars? A: Hepburn
Q: Who won his second Oscar in successive years for Forrest Gump? A: Tom Hanks
Q: Who won his second Oscar for the role of Raymond in Rain Man? A: Dustin Hoffman
Q: In 1997 James Cameron won an Oscar for which blockbuster? A: Titanic
Q: Which Nick won an Oscar for The Wrong Trousers? A: Park
Q: What is Sean Connery's profession in The Name of the Rose? A: Friar
Q: In which film did Jodie Foster play FBI agent Clarice Starling? A: The Silence of the Lambs
Q: Which Julie won an Oscar for Darling in 1965 and was Oscar nominated in 19987 for Afterglow? A: Christie
Q: Which musical set in gangland New York won 11 Oscars in 1961? A: West Side Story
Q: Who did Ali McGraw marry after they had made The Getaway together? A: Steve McQueen
Q: "Who uttered the famous line ""Frankly my dear I don't give a damn?" A: Clark Gable
Q: Whose voice did Marni Nixon dub in the classic My Fair Lady? A: Audrey Hepburn
Q: Who was jailed for her 'obscene' stage play Sex? A: Mae West
Q: Which 1997 movie equaled Ben Hur's record 11 Oscars? A: Titanic
Q: Who won an Oscar wearing an eye patch in True Grit? A: John Wayne
Q: In which film did David Niven play James Bond? A: Casino Royale
Q: Which Emma won an Oscar for her screenplay of Sense and Sensibility? A: Thompson
Q: Which film with Ralph Fiennes won Anthony Minghella an Oscar? A: The English Patient
Q: I Could Go on Singing was the last film of which screen legend? A: Judy Garland
Q: Which British actor's autobiography was called What's It All About? A: Michael Cane
Q: Judi Dench won an Oscar as which Queen in Shakespeare in Love? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Who won the Best Actor and Best Director Oscar for Dances With Wolves? A: Kevin Costner
Q: Which Jessica was the then oldest Oscar winner for Driving Miss Daisy? A: Tandy
Q: Who was the first actress to receive four Oscars? A: Katharine Hepburn
Q: In the 70s which gangster film won an Oscar as did its sequel? A: The Godfather
Q: Geoffrey Rush won an Oscar for Shine, as what type of musician? A: Pianist
Q: For which film about a Scottish hero did Mel Gibson win his first Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director? A: Braveheart
Q: Who got her first big break in Grease 2? A: Michelle Pfeiffer
Q: Who played Charlie Chaplin in Richard Attenborough's 1992 film? A: Robert Downey Jr
Q: Which star of Gypsy and West Side Story married Robert Wagner twice? A: Natalie Wood
Q: Which lyricist who has worked with Elton John and Andrew Lloyd Webber won an award for A Whole New World from Aladdin? A: Tim Rice
Q: Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head was an Oscar winner from which movie with Robert Redford & Paul Newman? A: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
Q: The multi-Oscar winning The Deer Hunter was about steelworkers who went to fight where? A: Vietnam
Q: Which red-haired actress had the Margarita cocktail named after her as her real name was Margarita Cansino? A: Rita Hayworth
Q: Who wrote the lyrics for the song form Notting Hill sung by Elvis Costello? A: Herbert Kretzmer
Q: In what year does Demolition Man take place? A: 2032
Q: Who played a character based on Bob Fosse in a 1979 Oscar winning film? A: Roy Scheider
Q: Where in Europe was much of Evita filmed? A: Hungary
Q: What was the name of the butler in The Rocky Horror Picture Show? A: Riff Raff
Q: What was the real first name of the silent Marx Brother? A: Adolph
Q: What was Steve Martin's first film? A: The Jerk
Q: Which film tells of the exploits of singer Deco Duffe? A: The Commitments
Q: In which category was Mrs. Doubtfire Oscar-nominated? A: Best Makeup
Q: Which musical was Victor Fleming making the same time as he was making Gone With the Wind? A: The Wizard of Oz
Q: Which Club featured in cabaret? A: Kit Kat
Q: """The corn is as high as an elephant's eye is in which musical?" A: Oklahoma
Q: What was the name of the orphanage where The Blues Brothers were brought up? A: Saint Helen of the Blessed Shroud
Q: On which film was Three Men and a Baby based? A: Trois Hommes et un Couffin
Q: What was Xanadu in the title of the film? A: Roller disco
Q: Whose poems returned to the bestsellers list after Four Weddings and a Funeral? A: W. H. Auden
Q: Who was the voice of O'Malley in The Aristocats? A: Phil Harris
Q: What was the name of Bob Fosse's character in All That Jazz? A: Joe Gideon
Q: How old was Macaulay Culkin when he was cast for his role in Home Alone? A: Nine
Q: In which 70s musical did Paul Michael Glaser star? A: Fiddler on the Roof
Q: "In Private ""Benjamin, what is the name of ""Benjamin's captain?" A: Lewis
Q: How many different hats does Madonna wear in Evita? A: 39
Q: A Little Night Music was based on which non-musical film? A: Smiles of a Summer Night
Q: What was the name of the high school in Porky's? A: Angel Beach
Q: Who was Louise Lasser's husband when she stared with him in What's Up Tiger Lily? A: Woody Allen
Q: What was Tootsie's name before he turned into Tootsie? A: Michael Dorsey
Q: What was the first sequel to The Pink Panther called? A: A Shot in the Dark
Q: Who played the title role in the film version of Jesus Christ Superstar? A: Ted Neely
Q: What was the name of the sax player in New York New York who fell for Francine? A: Jimmy
Q: Who was the leader of the band that appeared in The Brady Bunch Movie? A: Davy Jones
Q: "In which film was chorus girl Peggy Sawyer told to ""come back a star?""" A: 42nd Street
Q: What are the last lines of My Fair Lady? A: Where the devil are my slippers?
Q: In The Muppet Movie what was the name of the restaurant Doc Hopper wanted to open? A: Frogs' Legs
Q: Who directed The Cable Guy? A: Ben Stiller
Q: What type of drug is Sherman Klump trying to perfect in The Nutty Professor? A: Weight loss
Q: Which First Lady had to give evidence over the Whitewater scandal? A: Hillary Clinton
Q: "About which British politician did Francois Mitterrand say, ""She has the mouth of Marilyn Monroe and the eyes of Caligula?""" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Nigel Short was the youngest champion in which game in 1984? A: Chess
Q: What did Woody Allen call his son as a tribute to Louis 'Satchmo' Armstrong? A: Satchel
Q: Which princess took out an injunction against a photographer after he tried to take photographs of her? A: Princess Diana
Q: In which decade did Berry Gordy set up Tamla Motown? A: 1950s
Q: In 1984 how was the baby who received the heart of a baboon known? A: Baby Fae
Q: What was the name of NATO spokesman in the 1999 Kosovo crisis? A: Jamie Shea
Q: Which daughter of the last Tsar of Russia was said to have escaped to America? A: Anastasia
Q: Which soul singer is Whitney Houston's god mother? A: Aretha Franklin
Q: Which Russian-born American wrote I, Robot? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: In which state were Bonnie & Clyde killed? A: Louisiana
Q: Which Biblical name does Boris Becker's older son have? A: Noah
Q: President Kennedy was shot on 22nd November; what day was Lee Harvey Oswald shot? A: 24th November
Q: Who founded General Motors in 1908? A: William C. Durant
Q: Nicoletta Mantovani hit the headlines through her relationship with which big figure in the entertainment world? A: Luciano Pavarotti
Q: What was Clive Sinclair's personal transport vehicle called? A: C5
Q: "Who designed Posh ""Spice Victoria Adam's wedding dress?" A: Vera Wang
Q: Who is Julian Lennon's step-mother? A: Yoko Ono
Q: Which American contralto was the first black singe to appear at the Metropolitan Opera? A: Marian Anderson
Q: Which American was the first ever person to retain an Olympic springboard diving title? A: Greg Louganis
Q: Which university did Tony Blair and Bill Clinton both attend in their younger days? A: Oxford
Q: What is the name of Paul and Linda McCartney's only son? A: James
Q: Who won the first men's US Tennis Open, in 1968? A: Arthur Ash
Q: Timothy McVeigh was convicted for which bombing? A: Oklahoma
Q: Who was Oliver North's secretary during the Irangate scandal? A: Fawn Hall
Q: Which singer married director Blake Edwards? A: Julie Andrews
Q: "What relation was ""Waldorf Astor, who became a British member of Parliament, to US millionaire John Jacob Astor?" A: Great-grandson
Q: For which movie did Meryl Streep win her first Oscar? A: Kramer v Kramer
Q: In the 1990s Babrak Karmal and Sultan Ali Keshtmond have been Prime Minister in which country? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which 60s pop band made an unsuccessful movie called Head? A: The Monkees
Q: Who was Anne Sullivan's most famous pupil? A: Helen Keller
Q: Which actress was voted Miss Burbank 1948? A: Debbie Reynolds
Q: Which state did Amelia Earhart land in on her first solo Pacific flight? A: California
Q: What is Billy Ocean's real name? A: Leslie Charles
Q: How was writer William Sydney Porter better known? A: O Henry
Q: What was The Zaire River called before 27th October 1971. A: Congo
Q: What was the profession of Thomas Eakins? A: Photographer
Q: Who is credited with the discovery of galaxies outside of our own? A: Edwin Hubble
Q: Who was the defending champion when Andre Agassi first won Wimbledon singles? A: Michael Stich
Q: Boukhalef International airport is in which country? A: Morocco
Q: What was the 70s No 1 hit for Hamilton, Joe Frank, & Reynolds? A: Fallin' In Love
Q: In what year was the Kellogg Company set up to manufacture cornflakes? A: 1906
Q: Which wartime classic was the title of a 1980 film with Hanna Schygulla & Mel Ferrer? A: Lili Marlene
Q: Who was the voice of Matt Dillon for 11 years on radio's Gunsmoke? A: William Conrad
Q: Which country does the airline Ladeco come from? A: Chile
Q: Where was the UN Atomic Energy Agency based when it was set up in 1957? A: Vienna
Q: Oran international airport is in which country? A: Algeria
Q: Where did Johnny Ace die in 1954? A: Houston, Texas
Q: Who was the first chemist to be Britain's Prime Minister? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: In which Olympics was taekwondo a demonstration sport? A: Seoul 1988
Q: What was Jimi Hendrix's middle name? A: Marshall
Q: Who was buried in Milan under the name of Maria Maggi to discourage grave robbers? A: Eva Peron
Q: In which month of the year did Bing Crosby record White Christmas? A: May
Q: Which country does the airline Transkei Airways come from? A: South Africa
Q: What was the last name of Judy in radio's A Date With Judy series? A: Foster
Q: Which hit starting with the word Rock took over NO 1 from Rock The Boat? A: Rock Your Baby
Q: In the 1940s, the University of North Carolina was founded at Charlotte and where else? A: Wilmington
Q: Which country was the first to make catalytic converters compulsory? A: Switzerland
Q: Christa McAuliffe died in an accident in what type of vehicle in 1986? A: Space Shuttle
Q: Who was Benazir Bhutto's Father who was executed in 1988? A: Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto
Q: Which form of death penalty was abolished by Francois Mitterrand? A: Guillotine
Q: Which capital city was the scene of a major summit between Reagan and Gorbachev in 1986? A: Reykjavik
Q: Which drink did the Coca Cola Company launch in 1982? A: Diet Coke
Q: Which telescope was launched into space on board a space shuttle in 1990? A: Hubble
Q: Jonas Salk developed the Salk vaccine against which disease? A: Polio
Q: Which of London's four airports is the only one to be connected to the city Underground system? A: Heathrow
Q: Who constructed the world's first laser? A: Theodore Maiman
Q: Which Wisconsin salesman developed a safety razor in 1901? A: King Camp Gillette
Q: In which country were Daewoo cars originally produced? A: Korea
Q: Which toy company did Ruth and Elliot Handler found? A: Mattel
Q: Which country was the first in the world to introduce a driving test? A: France
Q: Who launched the short-lived Skytrain air service? A: Freddie Laker
Q: What did Guinness adopt as its trademark in the 60s? A: Harp
Q: Which city was the HQ of the European Space program? A: Paris
Q: Which Andre built the first factory to mass-produce rubber tires? A: Michelin
Q: Which film actor became mayor of Carmel, California in 1986? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Which pop artist died in New York in1987? A: Andy Warhol
Q: How did James F Fixx, promoter of jogging for good health, die in 1984? A: Heart attack while jogging
Q: How was Jean Claude Duvalier known before he ws exiled in 1986? A: Baby Doc
Q: Where did teenager Matthias Rust land his plane in 1987 much to the surprise of the country's authorities? A: Red Square
Q: From which UK airport did Virgin Atlantic flights first depart for New York-Newark? A: London Gatwick
Q: Great Briton fought which country over the Falkland Islands? A: Argentina
Q: Which oil tanker disastrously ran aground off 'Brittany in 1987? A: Amoco Cadiz
Q: Where did the US side of the Band Aid concert take place? A: Philadelphia
Q: Natan Sharansky was released from prison in the USSR to begin a new life where? A: Israel
Q: Which country celebrated its bicentenary in 1988? A: Australia
Q: The mother of which Monkee invented typewriter correction fluid? A: Mike Nesmith
Q: What type of aircraft is the Hawker Siddley Harrier? A: Jump Jet
Q: What does Volkswagen actually mean? A: People's car
Q: What does the Transalaska Pipeline System transport? A: Oil
Q: What was the name of the world's first nuclear-powered submarine? A: Nautilus
Q: Which American company pioneered electric ignition in motor cars? A: Cadillac
Q: Who invented the world's first photocopier? A: Chester Carlson
Q: Where were the 2002 Winter Olympic Games held? A: Salt Lake City
Q: "Who wrote the line, ""Do not go gentle into that good night?" A: Dylan Thomas
Q: What is Jennifer Jason Leigh's real name? A: Jennifer Morrow
Q: Which musical instrument was found in Bonnie & Clyde's car after they were shot? A: Saxophone
Q: Which album was said to have reflected the end of Bob Dylan's marriage? A: Blood On The Tracks
Q: What was the only Fleetwood Mac track to top the singles charts in the 70s? A: Dreams
Q: Who was the defending champion when Billie Jean King first won Wimbledon singles? A: Margaret Smith
Q: In which country did Argentina first win soccer's World Cup? A: Argentina (1978)
Q: To the nearest million, what was the population of the USA in 1910? A: 92
Q: In Chaplin's The Great Dictator, which country did the dictator rule? A: Tomania
Q: What is Joan Collin's middle name? A: Henrietta
Q: What was the Aristocrat record label renamed? A: Chess
Q: Which President wrote Why England Slept about the rise of Fascism? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: Where was the first H bomb exploded in 1952? A: Eniwetok
Q: Queen Alia international airport is in which country? A: Jordan
Q: "Which hairdresser said, """"The only place where success comes before work is in the dictionary?""" A: Vidal Sassoon
Q: Which space probe sent pictures from Mars in 1965? A: Mariner 4
Q: Which villain was played by Burgess Meredith in the 1960s Batman TV series? A: The Penguin
Q: What was the name of the US army airplane which flew a record 150 hours non-stop in 1929? A: Question Mark
Q: In what year did regular Boeing 707 flights begin across he Atlantic? A: 1958
Q: Who became Queen of the Netherlands in 1980? A: Beatrix
Q: How many Billboard solo NO 1's did ex-Beatle Ringo Starr have? A: Two
Q: In what year did the New York subway open? A: 1903
Q: Which country does the airline Aero Lloyd come from? A: Germany
Q: In which decade was the Benjamin Franklin suspension bridge opened? A: 1920s
Q: How many prisoners were left in Alcatraz just before it closed? A: 27
Q: What was the name of the first weather satellite? A: Tiros
Q: Who directed the movie Trading Places? A: John Landis
Q: Where in Australia was swashbuckling Errol Flynn born? A: Hobart
Q: Vehicles from which country use the international registration letters KWT? A: Kuwait
Q: At what weight did boxer Chris Eubank win the WBO title in 1990? A: Middleweight
Q: Who featured with Bobby Brown on the No 1 She Ain't Worth It? A: Glenn Medeiros
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first album which did not have his name in the title? A: King Creole
Q: Where was golf's 1977 US Open held? A: Tulsa Oklahoma
Q: Who shared world amateur baseball championship with USA in1973? A: Cuba
Q: Who lost the first Super Bowl of the 70s? A: Minnesota Vikings
Q: How many times did the New York Yankees win the World Series in the 1970s? A: Twice
Q: Which team in the 80s won the Super Bowl by the biggest margin? A: Chicago Bears
Q: Where did Maurice Green set his 9.79 seconds for the 100m in 1999? A: Athens
Q: Who won baseball's first World Series of the 50s? A: New York Yankees
Q: Who was Jermaine O'Neal playing against when he made his debut in 1996? A: Denver Nuggets
Q: Who was the second American to win the Indianapolis 500 four times? A: Al Unser Sr
Q: Who was the Super Bowl MVP in 1979 and 1980. A: Terry Bradshaw
Q: In 1978 US Masters, who was leading Gary Player by seven strokes, only to lose by a single stroke? A: Hubert Green
Q: Where were the first World Athletics Championships held? A: Helsinki
Q: Which was the first team to win three Super Bowls? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: Who was the first MVP in a Super Bowl to be on the losing side? A: Chuck Howley
Q: Who won the Princess Cup in 1997 with Monica Seles? A: Anna Kournikova
Q: Which team has not won a World Series since Babe Ruth stopped pitching for them? A: Boston Red Sox
Q: Who skippered Stars & Stripes in the America's Cup in 1987 and 1988? A: Dennis Conner
Q: Who did Martina Navratilova beat to win her ninth Wimbledon title? A: Zina Garrison
Q: Who captained the US Ryder Cup team in 1991? A: Dave Stockton
Q: Which team in the 70s won the Super Bowl by the biggest margin? A: Oakland Raiders
Q: Who was the winner of the last Open at Carnoustie before Paul Lawrie? A: Tom Watson
Q: In what years did John Henry win the Arlington Million? A: 1981 & 1984
Q: Who was the first president of the National Football League? A: Jim Thorpe
Q: Who rode Affirmed for each race when he won the Triple Crown? A: Steve Cauthen
Q: Which team lost the most Super Bowls in the 1970s? A: Minnesota Vikings
Q: Who won the first all American French Open Men's Singles final for almost 40 years in the 90s? A: Jim Courier
Q: What was the first British-trained horse to run in the Kentucky Derby? A: Bold Arrangement
Q: In which sport did Eric Navet of France become a 1990 world champion? A: Show Jumping
Q: Who won baseball's first World Series of the 70s? A: Baltimore Orioles
Q: What was the original name of the Kansas City Chiefs? A: Dallas Texans
Q: Who was Super Bowl MVP the year after Joe Namath won it? A: Len Dawson
Q: In 1952 who was the then oldest boxer to become world champoion? A: Jersey Joe Walcott
Q: In 1988 who won the tennis Grand Slam and Olympic gold? A: Steffi Graf
Q: How was Walker Smith Robinson better known? A: Sugar Ray Robinson
Q: What is the nickname of record-breaking sprinter Maurice Greene? A: Kansas Cannonball
Q: Who was the first boxer to twice regain the world heavyweight title? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: Peter Nichol became the first Brit in 25 years to win the British open in which sport? A: Squash
Q: Which Robin was the first yachtsman to sail non-stop around the world? A: Knox-Johnson
Q: Warren Beatty was offered full college scholarships in which sport? A: Football
Q: Billy Crystal had a full college scholarship in which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Who beat Jim Brown's rushing yards total of 12,312 yards in the 1980s? A: Walter Payton
Q: Who fought George Foreman in the Rumble In The Jungle? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: What was Hank Aaron's first Major League team? A: Milwaukee Braves
Q: Which country does marathon man Abel Anton come form? A: Spain
Q: Which was Hideo Nomo's first US baseball team? A: Los Angeles Dodgers
Q: With which track and field even was Geoff Capes particularly associated? A: Shot
Q: Which country does tennis player Marcelo Rios come from? A: Chile
Q: Where was the Rumble in the Ali v Foreman fight in Zaire in 1974? A: Jungle
Q: How many people are there in an official tug of war team? A: Eight
Q: In which month is horse racing's Melbourne Cup held? A: November
Q: The Curragh is in which country? A: Ireland
Q: Which country hosts the Belmont and Preakness Stakes? A: United States
Q: In which decade did Joe Montana retire from football? A: 1990s
Q: Which African country does Nick Price come from? A: Zimbabwe
Q: What position did football great Jim Brown play? A: Fullback
Q: What is Magic Johnson's real first name? A: Earvin
Q: In baseball, when a team is pitching how many players do they have on the field? A: Nine
Q: Which golf tournament presents its winner with a green jacket? A: The Masters
Q: In which jumping event did Carl Lewis win Olympic gold's? A: Long Jump
Q: In football, what position is WR? A: Wide receiver
Q: The Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to winners of what? A: Super Bowl
Q: What was the nationality of the athletes killed at the 1972 Munich Olympics? A: Israeli
Q: The Prix du Jockey-Club is held at which race course? A: Chantilly
Q: In which decade did the Super Bowl begin? A: 1960s
Q: In which country is Flemington park race course? A: Melbourne, Australia
Q: Who won golf's US Amateur Championship for the first time i n1994? A: Tiger Woods
Q: In which sport was Richard Upton found positive in a drugs test in 1998? A: Swimming
Q: Which European won tennis's 1989 Men's Singles at the US Open? A: Boris Becker
Q: In which sport's globalization plan includes the ' Dream Team,' playing in the McDonald's Classic and the Three-on-Three Challenge? A: Basket ball
Q: Which country does boxer Vitali Klitschko come from? A: Ukraine
Q: In which state did Michael Jordan play college basketball? A: North Carolina
Q: With which university did Magic Johnson win the 1979 NCAA title? A: Michigan State
Q: Who won golf's US Open in 1994 and 1997? A: Ernie Els
Q: What has been won by Australia II and America 3? A: America's Cup
Q: Which university did Cheryl Miller attend? A: University of Southern California
Q: At which sport did Keanu Reeves excel while at high school? A: Hockey
Q: In Hockey, who did Maurice Rocket Richard play for? A: Montreal Canadians
Q: Golf star Vijay Singh comes form where? A: Fiji
Q: Kirk Douglas supplemented his acting earnings in his early years as what type of professional sportsman? A: Wrestler
Q: """The early days of which sport featured the Renshaw twins, the Baddeley twins and the Doherty brothers?" A: Tennis
Q: Who was known as the Manassa Mauler? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: Arturo Marino Benitez international airport is in which country? A: Chile
Q: What was Jane Russell's real first name? A: Ernestine
Q: The Fabulous Cullinan diamond was cut into how many separate gems? A: 105
Q: Which singer-songwriter was born on the same day as actor Billy Dee Williams? A: Merle Haggard
Q: John and Mary Evans of Alaska grew the world's biggest what? A: Broccoli
Q: Where is the University of New Hampshire located? A: Durham
Q: What is the biggest studio in Hollywood called? A: Universal City
Q: Who was the first person to win the Indianapolis 500 six times? A: Al Unser
Q: Gunn-toting Wyatt Earp survived to what age? A: 80
Q: Which sporting world championship has been held at the Kuusinski and Kitka Rivers in Finland? A: Fly Fishing
Q: Which country does the airline Tower Air come from? A: USA
Q: In which country is the Bendorf bridge? A: Germany
Q: Which pop singer blamed his cocaine addiction of the break0-up of his relationship with Victoria principal? A: Andy Gibb
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with The Night Chicago Died? A: Paper Lace
Q: What was Bob Hoskins' profession when he worked in the circus? A: Fire-eater
Q: Which state was Peggy Lee born in? A: North Dakota
Q: Who was the last man to win Wimbledon and the French open singles in the same year? A: Bjorn Borg
Q: Who directed the movie The Blues Brothers? A: John Landis
Q: In which country did the first Mickey Mouse comic appear? A: Italy
Q: What was the name of the island off Iceland which appeared in 1963 as a result of an underwater volcano? A: Surtsey
Q: Which band has featured Gregg Rolie, David Brown and Autlan de Bavarro? A: Santana
Q: Which US soap actress's real name is Patsy Mclenny? A: Morgan Fairchild
Q: In which state is the Creighton University? A: Nebraska
Q: In England, who was Princess Diana referring to when she said her marriage was ' a bit crowded?' A: Camilla Parker Bowles
Q: What is Brad Pitt's real first name? A: William
Q: Which label was responsible for John Lennon's final album made in his lifetime? A: Geffen
Q: What was Elton John's first album to enter the US charts at No 1? A: Captain Fantastic And The Brown Dirt Cowboy
Q: In which state was Quincy Jones born? A: Illinois
Q: Which country does the airline Norontair come form? A: Canada
Q: Which incident escalated US involvement in Vietnam? A: Tonkin Gulf incident
Q: What was Michael Jackson's last UK No 1 of the 80s? A: I Just Can't Stop Loving You
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Tanzania? A: EAT
Q: The world's biggest what was made in Seymour, Wisconsin in August 1989? A: Hamburger
Q: Who designed the New York pink skyscraper with the Chippendale-style cabinet top? A: Philip Johnson
Q: Who was the original host of The Price Is Right? A: Bill Cullen
Q: Which member of the Maverick clan was played by a future 007? A: Beau (Roger Moore)
Q: What did the Inspector have on his car sticker in Sledge Hammer? A: I Love Violence
Q: Who hosted the early series of The Pink Panther cartoons? A: Lenny Schulz
Q: Pee Wee Herman made his TV debut on which show? A: The Gong Show
Q: In Makin' It, who was the John Travolta-type character? A: Billy Manucci
Q: Which Hollywood star starred in the 50s show My Three Sons? A: Fred MacMurray
Q: The actor who played Jack Geller in Friends was married once to which superstar? A: Elliott Gould married Barbra Streisand
Q: Who guested in Happy Days where his daughter was playing Jenny Piccalo? A: Phil Silvers
Q: The Flying Nun was based on which book? A: The Fifteenth Pelican
Q: The older Smothers Brother played what musical instrument? A: Guitar
Q: In the TV sitcom Adam's Rib, who played the Spencer Tracy Film role? A: Ken Howard
Q: What was the first sitcom where Mickey Rooney was not called Mickey? A: One of The Boys
Q: Which character did Tom Hanks play in early episodes of Family Ties? A: Ned Keaton
Q: "Before it was made famous by Pigmeat of Rowan and Martin's Laugh In fame, who first said, ""Here comes the judge""?" A: Sammy Davis Jr
Q: Which member of The A Team played Clubber Lang in Rocky III? A: Mr. T
Q: Peter Faulk received his first Emmy for a performance on which show? A: The Dick Powell Show
Q: In Top Cat, who was the voice of Choo Choo? A: Marvin Kaplan
Q: Who played Leroy Johnson in the movie Fame and on TV? A: Gene Anthony Ray
Q: "Who did Mrs. Thatcher describe as ""a man we can do business with?""" A: Gorbachev
Q: How is Tenzin Gyatso better known? A: The Dali Lama
Q: How was Nguyen that Tan better known? A: Ho Chi Minh
Q: Who did the Americans recognize as ruler of Vietnam in 1950 when the Soviets acknowledged Ho Chi Min? A: Bao Dai
Q: Who was the defeated Presidential candidate in the 1900 US election? A: William Jennings Bryan
Q: Who was the first leader of the Belgian Congo? A: Lumumba
Q: Who was Greece's first socialist Prime Minister? A: Papandreou
Q: Who was Pope during World War II? A: Pius XII
Q: Who was the youngest US Vice President of the 20th century? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who was mayor of New York during the race riots of 1996? A: John Lindsay
Q: Who formulated his Sinatra Doctrine - Foreign policy to be constructed on a My Way basis? A: Eduard Shevardnadze
Q: Vaclav Havel and British King George VI both lost what part of their bodies? A: Lung
Q: Who was Oliver North's immediate boss who admitted authori8zing funding the Contra rebels in Nicaragua? A: John Poindexter
Q: Which ex-president died shortly after he death of Harry S. Truman? A: Lyndon B. Johnson
Q: Who was the first Democrat President of the 20th century? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Who was North Vietnam's chief negotiator at the '73 Paris peace talks? A: Le Duc Tho
Q: Who was the first president to be elected for a third four-year term? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: Which Secretary of State under Truman helped formulate the Marshall Plan? A: Dean Acheson
Q: Senator Joe McCarthly representred which state? A: Wisconsin
Q: Who did Roosevelt defeat when he won the 1932 election? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: Which President gave the go-ahead to build an H Bomb? A: Truman
Q: Who was the oldest US President before Ronal Reagan? A: Dwight D. Eisenhower
Q: Dan Quayle was Senator form which state when he was chosen as George Bush's Vice President? A: Indiana
Q: Where did Reagan and Gorbachev have their Star Wars summit in October 19865? A: Iceland
Q: Who was Walter Mondale's running mate in the 1984 election? A: Geraldine Ferraro
Q: What was Ronald Reagan's last movie? A: The Killers
Q: Who was Ronald Regan's first Secretary of State? A: Alexander Haig
Q: How many 'points for peace' did President Wilson announce in 1918? A: 14
Q: In which US state were the last summer Olympics of the century held? A: Georgia
Q: Who inflicted Nigel Benn's first defeat as a professional? A: Chris Eubank
Q: Which movie star was an Austrian Junior Olympic Weightlifting Champion? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: Who was non-playing captain of the US Davis Cup team in '81 and '82? A: Arthur Ash
Q: In which sport did Andy Thomson become a world champion? A: Bowls
Q: Which legendary American golfer played his last British Open in 1995? A: Arnold Palmer
Q: In which decade did Martina Navratilova take US citizenship? A: 1980s
Q: "How was Mildred ""Didrikson better known?" A: Babe Zaharias
Q: Who beat Carl Lewis's best time of 9.86 seconds for the 100 meters? A: Leroy Burrell
Q: Who won a record ninth Wimbledon singles title in 1990? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: On which course does the Kentucky Derby take place? A: Churchill Downs
Q: Which American was the youngest male Olympic gold medalist when he won in 1948? A: Bob Mathias
Q: In women's field hockey, which country has won the most World Cups? A: Netherlands
Q: Name France's last Wimbledon men's singles winner of this century. A: Yvon Petra
Q: Who was the oldest US Open golf champion of the 20th century? A: Hale Irwin
Q: Who did Hubert Green beat to win the US PGA Championship in 1985? A: Lee Trevino
Q: Who devised the Breeder's Cup? A: John Gaines
Q: Which team lost the first Super Bowl of the 1980s? A: Los Angeles Rams
Q: Which was the last horse before Nijinsky to win the English Triple Crown of 2000 Guineas, Epsom Derby and St. Leger? A: Bahram
Q: Which team won baseball's first World Series of the 60s? A: Pittsburg Pirates
Q: Who was the first woman tennis player born in the US to win the US Open after Chris Evert's 1984 triumph? A: Lindsay Davenport
Q: Which Bond movie used Stoke Poges golf club for some location shots? A: Goldfinger
Q: How many races did Ed Moses win in succession between '77 and '87? A: 122
Q: What distance is the Breeders' Cup Sprint? A: Six furlongs
Q: Which team won the most Super Bowls in the 1980s? A: San Francisco 49ers
Q: Anton Geesink was the first non-Japanese judoka to win a judo world championship, but which country did he come from? A: Netherlands
Q: Who was the defending champion when Chris Evert first won Wimbledon singles? A: Billie Jean King
Q: Who was Super Bowl MVP in successive years in 1967 and 1968? A: Bart Star
Q: Who won the most men's US Open tennis titles in the 20th century? A: Bill Tilden
Q: Pong was an early console type of game based on which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: In which decade of this century were airmail letters first carried? A: 2nd decade
Q: How many bits are there in a byte? A: Eight
Q: Alta Vista is a type of what? A: Search Engine
Q: Barclay Square was an early Internet site offering what? A: Shopping
Q: What is a message sent to a newsgroup in the Internet called?| A: Article
Q: A bitmap is a collection of what? A: Dots
Q: If edu appears at the end of an address, what is the host computer? A: College or University
Q: What was the name of the first satellite to relay live TV pictures between the USA and Europe? A: Telstar
Q: If you surf the Internet, what do you do? A: Look around
Q: Which page of a Web site is called a Home Page? A: First
Q: In addition to the computer, what else must a modem be plugged into? A: Phone
Q: What does Q mean in FAQ? A: Question
Q: What letter appears on the computer screen when you are using Microsoft Internet Explorer? A: E
Q: Which name of something used by avid readers is the Netscape Navigator name for Favorites? A: Bookmarks
Q: A small a in a circle is pronounced how? A: At
Q: Where does a bounced email return to? A: Sender
Q: What name is given to the software program needed to access the Web? A: Browser
Q: What goes after Netscape in the name of a popular Internet browser? A: Navigator
Q: If you have an active Internet connection, you are said to be on what? A: On line
Q: A newbie is a new what? A: Internet user
Q: In an e mail address, how is a symbol like a period said out loud? A: Dot
Q: What name is given to a program designed to cause damage by attaching itself to other programs? A: Virus
Q: Which cartoons are associated with Kim Casalli? A: Love Is
Q: Where was William Kellogg working when he decided to sell cornflakes? A: Hospital
Q: What is Dionne Warwick's real first name? A: Marie
Q: What's the first word of Richard Marx's Right Here Waiting For You? A: Oceans
Q: "Who described a Hollywood studio set as, ""The biggest train set a boy ever had?""" A: Orson Wells
Q: On which special day did Charlie Chaplin die in 1977? A: Christmas Day
Q: In Mork and Mindy, what was the Orkan phrase for 'Goodbye'? A: Nanu Nanu
Q: Amilcar Cabral international airport is in which country? A: Cape Verde
Q: In 1993, Michael Jackson give his first TV interview in 14 years with which talk show presenter? A: Oprah Winfrey
Q: What was the last top ten hit for Connie Francis? A: Vacation
Q: Where is the University of Delaware located? A: Newark
Q: Which composer was born on exactly the same day as TV evangelist Pat Robertson? A: Stephen Sondheim
Q: Who was the last undisputed boxing world heavyweight champion before Mike Tyson? A: Leon Spinks
Q: Which country's invasion of Ethiopia in 1935 forced Haile Selassie to flee? A: Italy
Q: Who directed the 1951 classic movie The Day The Earth Stood Still? A: Robert Wise
Q: Who wrote the novel The Left Hand Of Darkness? A: Ursula Le Guin
Q: What is Neil Simon's real first name? A: Marvin
Q: Augusto C Sandino international airport is in which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: What was the second Oscar Hammerstein show to win the Pulitzer Prize? A: South Pacific
Q: Lionel Hampton played on which band until forming his own in1941? A: Benny Goodman
Q: In what year was indoor handball introduced as an Olympic event for men? A: 1972
Q: Which country does the airline Air Littoral come from? A: France
Q: In which country was Emilio Estevez born? A: USA
Q: Which brand had to apologize for a logo said to be like the Arabic for Allah? A: Nike
Q: What was the Blue Swede's only No 1 hit? A: Hooked On A Feeling
Q: New York-born Sir Jacob Epstein worked in which branch of the arts? A: Sculpture
Q: What year was the centenary of Colorado joining the Union? A: 1976
Q: How old was Dodi Fayed at the time of his death in 1997? A: 42
Q: In which country is the Angostura bridge? A: Venezuela
Q: What is Elle Macpherson's real name? A: Eleanor Gow
Q: Which instrument is associated with Lester 'Prez' Young? A: Saxophone
Q: Which criminal was set up by the Lady In Red? A: John Dillinger
Q: Who penned Kenny Rogers' No 1 hit Lady? A: Lionel Richie
Q: Who had a 50s No 1 with Heartaches By The Number? A: Guy Mitchell
Q: In which country was power seized in the 70s by the Gang of Four? A: China
Q: At which sport did Jonah Barrington win international success? A: Squash
Q: What was the nationality of composer Aaron Copland? A: American
Q: What was the occupation of Edith Cavell who was shot by the Germans in WWI? A: Nurse
Q: How did Satyajit Ray achieve fame? A: Film Director
Q: Who had a 1980s No 1 hit with Don't You (Forget About Me)? A: Simple Minds
Q: Which Japanese company bought CBS records in 1988? A: Sony
Q: How many of Mark Spitz's Olympic golds were for solo events? A: Four
Q: Who made the album Honky Tonk Angels with Dolly Parton and Tammy Wynette? A: Loretta Lynn
Q: How many Nobel prizes did Marie curie win? A: Two
Q: In which country is the deepwater port of Belem? A: Brazil
Q: In which country was Danny De Vito born? A: USA
Q: The Chinook blows down which mountains? A: Rocky Mountains
Q: In which country was Michael J. Fox born? A: Canada
Q: To the nearest million, how mjch did Heavan's Gate lose for United Artists? A: 30
Q: From which show does Love Changes Everything come from? A: Aspects of Love
Q: Under which name did Leonard Slye ride across the silver screen? A: Roy Rogers
Q: Who directed The Deer Hunter? A: Michael Cimino
Q: What color is Laa Laa of the Teletulbbies? A: Yellow
Q: Who was the most recent Democrat before Clinton to be reelected for a second term as US President? A: Roosevelt
Q: For what did Georgie O'Keefe become famous? A: Painting
Q: A-Ha sang the title song for which Bond film? A: The Living Daylights
Q: Which Russian writer wrote Cancer Ward? A: Alexander Solzhenitsyn
Q: Which summer month is the title of an album by Eric Clapton? A: August
Q: In the Simpsons, which Hollywood superstar provided Maggie's first word? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: Which writer came up with Catch 22 in the 60s? A: Joseph Heller
Q: Bourgas international airport is in which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: Who did Pope John Paul II succeed as Pope? A: John Paul I
Q: "Who described his paintings as ""hand-painted dream photographs?""" A: Salvador Dali
Q: What was the full first name of the President who gave his name to Teddy Bears? A: Theodore
Q: Donald Woods escaped from where in 1979, later the subject of the film Cry Freedom? A: South Africa
Q: Which Austrian wrote The Psychopathology of Everyday Life? A: Freud
Q: Which Chinese leader's widow was arrested for trying to overthrow the government in the 19780s? A: Mao Tse Tung
Q: "Who said, ""Some women get excited about nothing-- and then they marry him?" A: Cher
Q: Who is the famous mother of Elijah Blue? A: Cher
Q: What was the occupation of Roger Moore's father? A: Policeman
Q: Picasso moved to Paris in 1901 but where was he born? A: Spain
Q: Which US President went to the same London university as Mick Jagger? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: Who published the General Theory of Relativity in 1915? A: Albert Einstein
Q: In 1968 the Oscars were postponed for 48 hours because of whose death? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Who replaced Mary Robinson as president of Ireland in 1997? A: Mary McAleese
Q: What breed of dog was Barry Manilow's Bagel? A: Beagle
Q: How old was Douglas Fairbanks when he married 23-year-old Joan Crawford? A: 19
Q: "Who said, ""The only placed a man wants depth in a woman is in her decolletage?""" A: Zsa Zsa Gabor
Q: Which future President made the famous Checkers Speech in 1952? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who succeeded Lal Bahadur Shasrtri as Prime Minister of India? A: Indira Gandhi
Q: Which Russian imposed a reign of terror during the 30s and 40s? A: Stalin
Q: In the 60s Queen Elizabeth II dedicated an acre of ground in memory of which American? A: President Kennedy
Q: Who led India to overthrow British rule by non-violent means? A: Gandhi
Q: In which Sydney cathedral sis Michael Hutchence's funeral take place? A: St. Andrew's
Q: Who's best-known stage role was as Regina in The Little Foxes? A: Tallulah Bankhead
Q: Who became chief designer at Givenchy in 1996? A: Alexander McQueen
Q: By 1999 how may times had Jane Fonda been Oscar nominated? A: Seven
Q: Which former central American dictator was born on exactly the same day as singer Gene Vincent? A: Manuel Noriega
Q: Which kidnap victim was involved in a bank raid, brandishing a gun? A: Patty Hearst
Q: Who was the only 20th century President to get stuck in the White House bath tub as he was so big? A: William Howard Taft
Q: Who led a government in Italy in the 20s and later became its dictator?> A: Mussolini
Q: Who was Axle Rose's famous singer father-in-law? A: Don Everly
Q: Richard Gere won a scholarship to the University of Massachusetts in which sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: "Which 70s US President said, ""I know I'm getting better at golf because I'm hitting fewer spectators?" A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which golfer announced he was leaving his wife and three children for Brenna Cepalak in 1996? A: Nick Faldo
Q: Madeleine Gurdon is the third wife of which millionaire? A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: Who led Argentina through most of the 1990s? A: Carlos Menem
Q: What relation was Henry Ford II to Henry Ford? A: Grandson
Q: Which world leader married Graca Machel in 1998? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: What is the first name of Charles' brother of Saatchi & Saatchi? A: Maurice
Q: Salvador Allende was elected president of which country in 1970? A: Chile
Q: Fitness trainer Carlos Leon was the father of which singer/actress's child? A: Madonna
Q: What was the profession of President Jean Bertrand Aristide of Haiti? A: Priest
Q: What was the name of Frank Sinatra's last wife? A: Barbara
Q: Who did Idi Amin depose in 1971? A: Milton Obote
Q: Hafez al Assad was the first democratically elected President of which country? A: Syria
Q: Which Russian leader was buried in 1998 in his family's vault? A: Tsar Nicholas II
Q: Who was Britain's last Prime Minister of the 20th century? A: Tony Blair
Q: In which North African country was Yves St. Laurent born as Henri Donat Mathieu? A: Algeria
Q: Which Yuri was president of the USSR for two years after heading the KGB for 15 years? A: Andropov
Q: What is Madonna's daughter called? A: Lourdes Maria
Q: Who replaced King Hussein as King of Jordan? A: Abdullah
Q: Which child of Princess Grace of Monaco competed in the 1988 Olympics? A: Prince Albert
Q: Which British Prime Minister signed the Anglo-Irish Agreement in 1985? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Who presented the first Oscars? A: Douglas Fairbanks
Q: "Michel Aoun led which then unsettled Middle ""Eastern country form 1988-1990?" A: Lebanon
Q: On whose show did Elvis Presley appear when 82% of the TV audience tuned in? A: Ed Sullivan
Q: "Who with Arafat and ""Rabin received the Nobel Peace prize in 1994?" A: Peres
Q: Which movie was Clark Gable making when he died? A: The Misfits
Q: Which French Prime Minister's funeral was attended by his wife and his mistress in 1996? A: Francois Mitterrand
Q: Which multi-million-dollar sport is Bernie Ecclestone associated with? A: Motor racing
Q: "Who succeeded ""Anwar Sadat as President of Egypt?" A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: Which movie star married jockey Robyn Smith in 1980? A: Fred Astaire
Q: How old was Orson Welles when he made Citizen Kane? A: 25
Q: In 1996 who did The Spice Girls say was their Girl Power role model? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Which South African President repealed key parts of apartheid law in 1991? A: FW De Klerk
Q: I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair came from which show? A: South Pacific
Q: Who wrote the words for My Fair Lady and Camelot? A: Alan Jay Lerner
Q: Which musical was a reworking of Puccini's Madame Butterfly? A: Miss Saigon
Q: Which sweet musical had the show-stopper Rhythm of Life? A: Sweet Charity
Q: In which country was Frederick Loewe born? A: Austria
Q: The King in the King and I is ruler of where? A: Siam
Q: Which show about Danny and Sandy was made into a film with John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John. A: Grease
Q: In which country was A Little Night Music set? A: Sweden
Q: Which show was based on the autobiography of Gypsy Rose Lee? A: Gypsy
Q: Aspects of what was a success by Andrew Lloyd Webber? A: Love
Q: Which show tells the tale of Dolly Gallagher Levi? A: Hello Dolly
Q: What type of shop was the Little Shop of Horrors? A: Florist's
Q: Which show was based on Miguel de Cervantes' Don Quixote? A: Man of La Mancha
Q: Which musical was based on the life of Annie Oakley? A: Annie Get Your Gun
Q: What was the name of the first hippie musical? A: Hair
Q: Which show does I Don't Know How To Love Him come from? A: Jesus Christ Superstar
Q: Which show, starring Robert Preston and Barbara Cook on Broadway? A: The Music Man
Q: Which show, which opened in the 40s, takes it's name from a fairground attraction? A: Carousel
Q: What was Jesus Christ according to the Rice / Lloyd Webber show? A: Superstar
Q: Which Line was the longest running musical in Broadway history? A: A Chorus Line
Q: Which American city saw the premiere of Sunset Boulevard? A: Los Angeles
Q: Which ground-breaking American musical was based on the book Green Grow The Lilacs? A: Oklahoma
Q: Which Lloyd Webber musical was billed as 'Now and forever'? A: Cats
Q: What did the Little Shop hold in the movie which premiered in 1982? A: Horrors
Q: Which star Fred starred in vaudeville with his sister Adele? A: Astaire
Q: On whose fable was Guys and Dolls based? A: Damon Runyan
Q: Which show featured Hernando's Hideaway and Hey There? A: The Pajama Game
Q: Where was the Best Little Whorehouse according to the musical title? A: Texas
Q: Which musical featured the songs A Secretary is Not A Toy, and The Company Way? A: How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying
Q: Which Fanny was the subject of Funny Girl? A: Brice
Q: Who was the first American actress to have a principal role with the Royal Shakespeare Company, in Les Miserable's? A: Patti LuPone
Q: Which musical was Lerner and Loewe's last major success, in 1960? A: Camelot
Q: Which 90s revival hit shares its name with a gangster city? A: Chicago
Q: Which musical about King Arthur became a byword for the JFK years? A: Camelot
Q: Annie Warbucks was the sequel to which one-word-titled musical? A: Annie
Q: In which city is the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery and Museum? A: Swansea
Q: What is the second largest of the Ionian Islands? A: Corfu
Q: "What color did Air France repaint some ""Concorde jets to advertize Pepsi?" A: Blue
Q: In 1998 a new breed of mosquito was discovered on which underground system? A: London
Q: "Which city did Truman Capote describe as ""eating an entire box of chocolate liqueurs in one go?""" A: Venice
Q: How is the Eurotunnel also known? A: Channel tunnel
Q: Which British monarch popularized the Homgburg which came from the German town of the same name? A: Edward VII
Q: Where is the French terminus for the Hoverspeed service? A: Boulogne
Q: In which country was the Angel of the North erected in 1998? A: England
Q: What is Switzerland's largest City? A: Zurich
Q: Which city was the cultural capital of Europe in 1990? A: Glasgow
Q: In which European country did Spice Girl Victoria Adams marry? A: Ireland
Q: What name is given to the popular holiday area between Marseille and La Spezia? A: Riviera
Q: What is the oldest university in Northern Ireland called -- founded in 1908? A: Queen's University
Q: Which British architect was responsible with Renzo Piano for the Famous Pompidou Centre in Paris? A: Richard Rogers
Q: In Which European city would you go to the Bardini Museum and the Bargello Museum? A: Florence
Q: Inishmor is part of which island group? A: Aran
Q: What is the name of the lake which remained when the Zuider Zee was closed and reclaimed in 1932? A: Ijsselmeer
Q: Syracuse is part of New York, but where does it exist in Europe? A: Sicily
Q: Sullom Voe is famous for exporting which commodity? A: Oil
Q: In which European city is the Atomium? A: Brussels
Q: How are Belgian World Airlines also known? A: SABENA
Q: Which tourist islands include the lesser known Majorca and Minorca? A: Balearics
Q: Which country lies to the north of Austria and to the south of Poland? A: Czech Republic
Q: Which European cou8ntry was first this century to give women the vote? A: Finland
Q: Where is the Optimisticeskaja Cave, the second longest in the world? A: Ukraine
Q: What is Europe's second largest city in terms of population? A: London
Q: How many independent 'Baltic states' are there? A: Three
Q: Which winter sports venue, home of the Cresta Run, has hosted two Olympic Games in the 20th century? A: St. Moritz
Q: What is farther north Hungary, or Bulgaria? A: Hungary
Q: What is Ireland's longest river and greatest source of electric power? A: Shannon
Q: "How many countries does the river ""Danube pass through?" A: Seven
Q: Where would you spend stotinki? A: Bulgaria
Q: Which European country saw one of the major avalanches of the 20th century in December 1916? A: Italy
Q: When did Euro Disney, now Disneyland Paris, open? A: 1992
Q: The Simpleton Tunnel links Italy with which country? A: Switzerland
Q: On which sea does Croatia stand? A: Adriatic
Q: What is the longest river in Portugal, and the fifth longest in Europe? A: Tagus
Q: Which French phrase described an innovative movement in the cinema? A: Nouvelle vague
Q: Which actress is ex-beauty queen Miss Orange County 1976? A: Michelle Pfeiffer
Q: Which actor became playwright Arthur Miller's son-in-law in 1997? A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: Which actress perished in the shower in the remake of Psycho? A: Anne Heche
Q: Who first coined the term cybernetics? A: Norbert Wiener
Q: Who played Tarzan in the first two Tarzan films? A: Elmo Lincoln
Q: Which film director was Anthony Quinn's father-in-law? A: Cecil B de Mille
Q: "Who said, ""I squint because I can't take too much light?""" A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who wrote the screenplay for The Crying Game? A: Neil Jordan
Q: Who was the senior US diplomat held in the US Embassy in Tehran? A: Bruce Laingen
Q: Who was the first freely elected Marxist president in Latin America? A: Allende
Q: Who was the first American to win the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: Sinclair Lewis
Q: Who was the first black student at the University of Alabama? A: Autherine Lucy
Q: Who invented the liquid fuel powered rocket? A: Robert H. Goddard
Q: Who was Geena Davis's husband when they made the loss-maker Cutthroat Island? A: Renny Harlin
Q: Which novelist appeared in the film Day For Night? A: Graham Greene
Q: In 1993 who tried to buy the rights of his first movie Sizzle Beach USA? A: Kevin Costner
Q: What is Barbra Streisand's middle name? A: Joan
Q: Who was William Taft's Vice President between 1909 and 1912? A: James S. Sherman
Q: "Who said, ""How can you rule a country which produces 246 different kinds of cheese?" A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Who invented the Polaroid camera? A: Edwin Herbert Land
Q: How many films had Christopher Reeve made before Superman in 1978? A: One
Q: Who owned the LA nightclub The Viper Room at the time of River Phoenix's death there in 1993? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Who starred in Roger Vadim's remake of And God Crated Woman? A: Rebecca de Mornay
Q: "Who was described by co star Nick Nolte as, ""...a ball buster. Protect me from her?""" A: Barbra Streisand
Q: Who were the first two men to drive on the Moon? A: David Scott and James Irwin
Q: Who in 1996 made the longest spaceflight by a woman? A: Shannon Lucid
Q: Who won the first of his Nobel prizes in 1956 for research which led to the invention of the transistor? A: John Bardeen
Q: Which electrical engineer invented the triode valve in 1907? A: Lee De Forest
Q: Who performed the first artificial heart transplant? A: William DeVries
Q: In which movie did Bogart have his first gangster part? A: The Petrified Forest
Q: Which film maker's first film was Pather Panchali? A: Satyajit Ray
Q: Which actress was Roger Moor's first Bond girl? A: Jane Seymour
Q: Who designed the Geodesic Dome in the US Pavilion at the 1967 Montral's World's Fair exhibition? A: Buckminster Fuller
Q: Who was the top star at the US box office in 1935? A: Shirley Temple
Q: How is Paul Reubens also known in the film and TV world? A: Pee Wee Herman
Q: Who founded the magazine Camera Work? A: Alfred Stieglitz
Q: How long is Indianapolis's most famous motor race? A: 500 miles
Q: Who was the first female to have three consectu8ive US No 1 albums? A: Donna Summer
Q: Which detective lived on a boat called St Vitus Dance? A: Crockett
Q: On which river was the Grand Coulee built? A: Columbia
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Brad Pitt born? A: 1960s
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Like A Prayer? A: Madonna
Q: In which decade was Ewan McGregor born? A: 1970s
Q: Who produced the first jumbo jet in 1975? A: Boeing
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Let's Hear It For The Boy? A: Deniece Williams
Q: Where in America is the Rockefeller University? A: New York
Q: In professional football, which state do the Cardinals call home? A: Arizona
Q: Which musical instrument did Stan Getz play? A: Tenor saxophone
Q: Which musical featured the song Tonight? A: West Side Story
Q: What kind of orchard did Chekhov write a play about? A: Cherry
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 hit with Jack & Diane? A: John Cougar
Q: Truman Capote wrote about Breakfast at which place? A: Tiffany's
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter on the same line is immediately right of the O? A: P
Q: Abyssinia has become known as what? A: Ethiopia
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Anne Archer born? A: 1940s
Q: Cass Gilbert was the major developer of what type of building? A: Skyscraper
Q: In which state was Madonna born? A: Michigan
Q: In comic books, who featured with Sugar? A: Spike
Q: Who became speaker of the house of representatives in 1995? A: Newt Gingrich
Q: John Glenn became Senator for which state? A: Ohio
Q: The Battle Of New Orleans was a big No 1 for which singer? A: Johnny Horton
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Mexico? A: MEX
Q: In which cop series did Phil Collins appear as Phil the Shill? A: Miami Vice
Q: "Which US singer said, ""You're not drunk if you can lie on the floor without holding on?""" A: Dean Martin
Q: What is the name of the main space exploration center in Florida? A: Cape Canaveral
Q: The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face was featured in which Clint Eastwood film? A: Play Misty For Me
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Michael Keaton born? A: 1950s
Q: Who performed He's A Tramp in the Disney movie Lady And The Tramp? A: Peggy Lee
Q: In which Center is he Metropolitan Opera House? A: Lincoln Center
Q: Jersey Joe Walcott was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Where in Lybia did Australian troops take a seaport occupied by the Italians in 1941? A: Tobruk
Q: What was the last No1 hit for the Everly Brothers? A: Cathy's Clown
Q: Where is the Great White Way? A: New York (Broadway)
Q: Which mountains stretch from West Virginia to Georgia? A: Blue Ridge Mountains
Q: Under which name did Alfonso D' Abruzzo find fame as an actor? A: Alan Alda
Q: According to the inventor Thomas Edison genius is made up how many percent of inspiration? A: One
Q: Who produced the first Chinook helicopter in 1961? A: Boeing
Q: Which actor founded the American Ocean's campaign in 1987? A: Ted Danson
Q: In which decade did Bonnie & Clyde operate? A: 1930s
Q: Which C S wrote The African Queen? A: Forester
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 with Everyday People? A: Sly & The Family Stone
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Lady? A: Kenny Rogers
Q: Igor Sikorsky developed which means of transport? A: Helicopter
Q: Which widow of a rock star appeared in Dallas? A: Priscilla Presley
Q: Who wrote the novel The Power and The Glory? A: Graham Greene
Q: The German terrorist group The Red Army Faction were more usually known as which Gang? A: Baader-Meinhof Gang
Q: What was the first name of the fictional sleuth Baretta? A: Tony
Q: How many people traditionally sing barbershop? A: Four
Q: What was Diana Ross's first solo No 1? A: Ain't No Mountain High Enough
Q: Which Argentinean became conductor of the New York Philharmonic in 1970? A: Daniel Barenboim
Q: Which Bond girl was Honor Blackman? A: Pussy Galore
Q: Which Latvian was principal dancer with the American Ballet Theater in the 70s returning later as director? A: Mikhail Baryshnikov
Q: Hard-rock group Motley Crue come from which city? A: Los Angeles
Q: Cindy Birdsong was a member of which singing group? A: Supremes
Q: Which movie won Marlon Brando his second Oscar? A: The Godfather
Q: On a Monopoly board, what are B & O, Reading, Short Line and Pennsylvania? A: Stations
Q: The Harry Lime theme was used in which film? A: The Third Man
Q: Which city hosts the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival? A: New York
Q: What was the profession of Burt Reynolds' father? A: Police Officer
Q: Which Scottish border town was the scene of a jumbo jet disaster? A: Lockerbie
Q: Solidarity was the mass movement of the people in which country? A: Poland
Q: Which golfer Sandy triumphed at the US Masters? A: Lyle
Q: Who became the world's youngest ever boxing heavyweight champion? A: Mike Tyson
Q: What was the world's first reusable spacecraft called? A: Space Shuttle
Q: What was Patricia Highsmith's first novel? A: Strangers On A Train
Q: In which war was cowboy star Tom MIx shot in the mouth? A: Spanish American War
Q: How many years did the Holocaust last? A: 12
Q: "Which soap had people asking. ""Who shot JR?""" A: Dallas
Q: Which tennis ace completed his fifth successive Wimbledon singles triumph? A: Bjorn Borg
Q: Who replaced Erich Honecker as GDR head of state? A: Egon Krenz
Q: Off which pitcher did Babe Ruth smash his 714th and final Major League home run? A: Guy Bush
Q: Which US President was linked with the 'Star Wars' policy? A: Reagan
Q: Where in the Ukraine was there a nuclear explosion in 1986? A: Chernobyl
Q: Anwar Sadat was President of which country when he died in 1981? A: Egypt
Q: Who released an album called Thriller in 1982? A: Michael Jackson
Q: Which 80s leader had a wife called Raisa? A: Mikhail Gorbachev
Q: In what month in 1990 did Iraq invade Kuwait? A: August
Q: Who won the ladies singles most times at Wimbledon in the 80s? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: Which island was the home of Bob Marley, who died in 1981? A: Jamaica
Q: Which John portrayed The Elephant Man on film? A: Hurt
Q: Which city was devastated by an earthquake in 1985 and then hosted the World Cup in 1986? A: Mexico
Q: Hahnium was so named by US scientists in honor of Otto Hahn; what was its original name? A: Unnilpentium
Q: Which movement was thought to be responsible for the kidnapping of Western hostages in Lebanon in the 890s? A: Hezbollah
Q: Who was Franklin ?D Roosevelt's secretary of state from 1933 to 1944? A: Cordell Hull
Q: The increasing scarcity of elephants and rhinos led ot a 1989 ban on which substance? A: Ivory
Q: Sarah Ferguson became Duchess of where? A: York
Q: Tiananmen Square was a scene of conflict in which country? A: China
Q: Which hospital was Princess Diana taken to after her tragic car accident? A: La Pitie-Salpetriere
Q: Elected in 1913, how long was Pedro Mascurain president of Mexico? A: One hour
Q: Who was NATO commander between 1974 and 1979? A: Alexander Haig
Q: Which disks replaced cassettes and ordinary records? A: Compact disks
Q: Groucho Marx resigned from where as he didn't care to belong to any club that would have him as a member? A: Friars Club
Q: In which natural valley is San Jose? A: Santa Clara
Q: In which Chicago theater did over 500 people die in a fire in 1903? A: Iroquois Theater
Q: How long did it take to construct a Model T Ford in 1914? A: 95 minutes
Q: Which couple were implicated in the Whitewater affair? A: The Clintons
Q: Who did James Earl Ray shoot in Memphis in April 1968? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Who was the first black American to win the Nobel peace prize? A: Ralph Bunche
Q: Where was the first nuclear reactor built, by Enrico Fermi? A: Chicago
Q: Which state on the Gulf of Mexico has the longest name? A: Mississippi
Q: The Rotary Club was founded in 1905 in which American City? A: Chicago
Q: Where is the HQ of Chrysler and General Motors? A: Detroit
Q: In All In The Family, what was Archie's son-in-law's full name? A: Mike Stivic
Q: What is the architectural style of the Radio City Music Hall in New York? A: Art Deco
Q: What was the debut movie of the actress born Shirley Beaty? A: The Trouble With Harry
Q: On which river is the USA's highest concrete dam? A: Colorado
Q: In square miles, how big is lake Superior? A: 31,700
Q: Near which town were there reports of a space ship landing on the 4th July 1947? A: Roswell, New Mexico
Q: Where was the World Fair held in 1903? A: St. Louis
Q: Which singer had the first names Harry Lillis? A: Bing Crosby
Q: What was the San Francisco Ballet formerly called? A: San Francisco Opera Ballet
Q: Parker and Barrow were more usually known as what? A: Bonnie and Clyde
Q: Al Capone was finally nailed for what crime? A: Tax evasion
Q: Alcatraz was in which Bay? A: San Francisco
Q: Which 20s gangland boss was nicknamed Scarface? A: Al Capone
Q: Where is the Valley of the Kings, the scene of a terrorist attack in 1997? A: Egypt
Q: Who was Butch Cassidy's partner? A: The Sundance Kid
Q: Irish Olympic champion Michelle smith was suspended in 1999 over drug allegations in which sport? A: Swimming
Q: Colombian underworld boss Pablo Escobar dealt in what commodity? A: Drugs
Q: Which actress Sharon was murdered by Charles Manson? A: Tate
Q: In which state was the 1999 massacre at Columbine High? A: Colorado
Q: Which saint's day saw a massacre in Chicago in 1929? A: St. Valentine's Day
Q: What was supposedly the profession of Sweeney Todd in London? A: Barber
Q: In 1990, Idaho and which other state celebrated the centenary of joining the Union? A: Wyoming
Q: What is the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands? A: Maui
Q: Who founded the New York City ballet in 1928? A: Balanchine
Q: Whose Complete Guide To Running is credited with beginning the craze for jogging? A: James F Fixx
Q: In which theater did The Wizard of Oz have its New York debut? A: Majestic
Q: What was CNN Headline News previously known as? A: CNN 2
Q: Who followed Calvin Coolidge as US President? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: What did Carlton Magee devise in the US for motorists? A: Parking Meter
Q: Who ordered the Boulder Dam to be renamed the Hoover Dam? A: Harry S. Truman
Q: In what year was the first woman elected to the US Senate? A: 1922
Q: What was the first US warship sunk by a U-boat in the Atlantic in 1941? A: USS Reuben James
Q: What nickname was given to the group of performers which included Sammy Davis Jr. and Frank Sinatra? A: The Rat Pack
Q: In which state was Bruce Springsteen born? A: New Jersey
Q: In which decade was the National University, San Diego, California founded? A: 1970s
Q: "Which show made critic Robert Helpmann say, ""The trouble with nude dancing is that not everything stops when the music does?""" A: Oh Calcutta
Q: "Who said, ""The hardest thing to understand in the world is income tax?""" A: Albert Einstein
Q: In the first ever Bugs Bunny cartoon, which character tried to kill him? A: Elmer Fudd
Q: Which star of the Back To The Future movies appeared in Caroline In the City? A: Lea Thompson
Q: The Mackenzie River flows form which lake to the ocean? A: Great Slave Lake
Q: Which Mexican port was seized by US marines in 1914 to prevent the import of German arms for rebel groups? A: Veracruz
Q: Who was Vice President during WWI? A: Thomas R Marshall
Q: In which language did The Singing Nun sing when she topped the singles charts? A: French
Q: Who recorded the albums Blue and Court And Spark? A: Joni Mitchell
Q: Where was the world's largest telescope until 1948? A: Mount Wilson
Q: How many Madison Square Gardens have there been before the existing one? A: Three
Q: Which road bisects the Balboa Park in San Diego? A: El Prado
Q: In which city was the pinball machine invented? A: Chicago
Q: What was the name of the first Hollywood movie released by D W Griffith in 1910? A: In Old California
Q: In Chaplin's The Great Dictator, what was the dictator's name? A: Adenoid Hynkel
Q: To which conductor did Vaughan Williams dedicate his 8th Symphony? A: Barbirolli
Q: "What did critic John Mason Brown describe as ""chewing gum for the eyes?""" A: TV
Q: Who wrote the book on which the musical Whistle Down the Wind was based? A: Mary Hayley Bell
Q: In what country was British choreographer Sir Frederick Ashton born? A: Ecuador
Q: Which director's autobiography was called The Name Above the Title? A: Frank Capra
Q: Where was blues singer Leadbelly when he was 'discovered' musically? A: Prison
Q: Most of the Three Tenors come from which country? A: Spain
Q: Who is taller, Holly Hunter or Madonna? A: Madonna
Q: What is Ryan O'Neal's real first name? A: Patrick
Q: Who wrote the song Mad Dogs And Englishmen? A: Noel Coward
Q: Who wrote the children's classic The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe? A: C. S. Lewis
Q: The first Miss World came from which country? A: Sweden
Q: For which movie did Spielberg win his first Oscar? A: Schindler's List
Q: Which part did Michael Jackson play in The Wiz? A: The Scarecrow
Q: What was advertised by Rod Stewart and Tina Turner's version of It Takes Two? A: Pepsi
Q: Which brothers bought Shepperton movie studios in 1994? A: Scott
Q: Which studios did the Rank Organization open in 1936? A: Pinewood
Q: Who made the film Renaldo and Clara with Bob Dylan? A: Joan Baez
Q: Which British composer wrote the theme music for the film Murder on the Orient Express? A: Richard Rodney Bennett
Q: The expression Great White Hope was used to describe which black boxer's opponents? A: Jack Johnson
Q: Which Dallas actress was born on exactly the same day as singer / songwriter Stephen Stills? A: Victoria Principal
Q: Who was the German soldier in Rowan and Martin's Laugh In? A: Artie Johnson
Q: Who had a 1980s No 1 hit with Shakedown? A: Bob Seger
Q: On whose life was the short-lived musical Winnie based? A: Winston Churchill
Q: How many Gilbert & Sullivan operas are there? A: 13
Q: "Who said, ""Middle age is when your age starts to show around your middle?""" A: Bob Hope
Q: "About whom did Kenneth Tynan say, ""What one sees in other women drunk, one sees in... sober?""" A: Greta Garbo
Q: Michael Jackson's Will You Be There came from which movie? A: Free Willy
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with The Theme From a Summer Place? A: Percy Faith
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar for Platoon? A: Oliver Stone
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Jessica Lange born? A: 1940s
Q: "Which film poster included the line ""I told you... you know nothing about wickedness?""" A: The Lady From Shanghai
Q: Who wrote the very last episode of Seinfeld? A: Larry David
Q: In 1997 which airline replaced the flag on its tail fin with ethnic designs from around the world? A: British Airways
Q: Where did Anne Frank die? A: Belsen
Q: "According to the British Bishop Mervyn Stockwood, who would ""go to the Follies Bergere and look at the audience?" A: A psychiatrist
Q: In which city was the peace treaty ending the Vietnam war signed? A: Paris
Q: What was Scotland's answer to California's Silicon Valley called? A: Silicon Glen
Q: What was St. Petersburg called for most of the 20th century? A: Leningrad
Q: What is London's biggest airport called? A: Heathrow
Q: Which country is locked within Belgium, Germany and France? A: Luxembourg
Q: In which category did Marie Curie win her second Nobel Prize? A: Chemistry
Q: What is the largest inland port in Europe? A: Hamburg, Germany
Q: Which company manufactured the first car to run on diesel? A: Mercedes Benz
Q: "In 1939 who described the actions of Russia as ""a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma?""" A: Winston Churchill
Q: In Nazi Germany, what was Endloslung? A: The Final Solution
Q: Who was Hitler's Prime Minister in Prussia? A: Goering
Q: Vehicles from which country use the international registration letter L? A: Luxembourg
Q: Where in England is the location of the Glastonbury Festival? A: Pilton
Q: The Channel Islands are in which Channel? A: English Channel
Q: The French region of Grasse is famous for making what? A: Perfume
Q: Which was the last country in mainland Europe to switch from driving on the left? A: Sweden
Q: By the end of the 80s, what percentage of British households had two cars? A: 20%
Q: In which year did Britain's lease on Hong Kong officially expire? A: 1997
Q: Which Norwegian explorer did Robert Feary beat to the North Pole? A: Roald Amundsen
Q: """A bridge too far"" referred to airborne landings in which country?" A: Netherlands
Q: Who founded the Cubism movement with Picasso? A: Braque
Q: "What is the name shared by the currency units of ""Algeria and Tunisia?" A: Dinar
Q: Mount Toubkai is the highest peak of which range of mountains? A: Atlas Mountains
Q: Which South African politician won the Nobel peace Prize in 1960? A: Albert Luthuli
Q: "In which township were 69 demonstrators killed by South ""African police in March 1960?" A: Sharpeville
Q: What is the former name of the People's Republic of Benin? A: Dohomey
Q: Which country is the home of the Ashanti? A: Ghana
Q: Where did Idi Amin rule from 1971 -1979? A: Uganda
Q: In which country are the ruins of ancient Carthage? A: Tunisia
Q: In which country does the White Nile leave Lake Victoria? A: Uganda
Q: Which African explorer translated the Arabian Nights? A: Richard Burton
Q: After which American President is the capital of Liberia named? A: James Monroe
Q: In which country were the Mau-0Mau a secret guerrilla movement? A: Kenya
Q: Who was the Danish author of Out of Africa? A: Karen Blixen
Q: Which new city in Nigeria has been shaped like a crescent, and has replaced Lagos as capital? A: Abuja
Q: Is the Great Wall of China 650, 1,450 or 2,050 miles long? A: 1,450
Q: Where did the Gang of Four try to size power in 1976? A: China
Q: Which Asian city hosted the 1988 Olympic Games? A: Seoul
Q: Who was emperor of Japan during world War II? A: Hirohito
Q: What is the capital of Saudi Arabia? A: Riyadh
Q: Of which country is Vientiane the capital? A: Laos
Q: Who was the Mongol ruler who conquered Persia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Georgia in the 14th Century? A: Tamerlane
Q: Which two Middle-Eastern countries fought a war from 1980 to 1988? A: Iran and Iraq
Q: Which sea lies between china and Korea? A: Yellow Sea
Q: In which modern country are the ports of Sidon and Tyer? A: Lebanon
Q: The West Bank of which river has been occupied by Israel since 1967? A: Jordan
Q: Which 15th-century navigator discovered the sea route from Europe to India by the Cape of Good Hope? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: What did Burma change its name to in 1989? A: Myanmar
Q: A 25 km causeway, the longest in the world, links Saudi Arabia with which other country? A: Bahrain
Q: Beside which river are the Indian cities of Delhi and Agra? A: Jumna
Q: On which inland sea do the ports of Astrakhan and Baku lie? A: Caspian Sea
Q: Which country was suspended from the Arab League for ten years from 1979? A: Egypt
Q: With what is the Japanese art of bonsai concerned? A: Miniature Trees
Q: By what name was Thailand known until 1939? A: Siam
Q: What kind of wild cattle with shaggy coats and upturned horns live in the mountains of Tibet? A: Yak
Q: Which 13th-century Mongol warlord controlled probably a larger area than anyone in history, from the Yellow Sea to the Black Sea? A: Genghis Khan
Q: Which is the largest city in India? A: Calcutta
Q: Which is the principal island of Japan? A: Honshu
Q: What is the dominant classical language of the Indian subcontinent? A: Sanskrit
Q: In which 1954 battle did the Vietminh defeat the French and end their influence in Indochina? A: Dien Bien Phu
Q: What nationality are the Gurkhas, who have fought for the British and Indian armies since 1815? A: Nepalese
Q: Which major export of Bangladesh is used to make sacking? A: Jute
Q: What was the former name of Iran? A: Persia
Q: Which river runs 1,560 miles to the Bay of Bengal? A: Ganges
Q: Which sheikhdom is the capital of the United Arab Emirates? A: Abu Dhabi
Q: Which native East Asian plant is the richest natural vegetable food? A: Soya
Q: What is the capital of Hong Kong? A: Victoria
Q: "Who founded the modern republic of Turkey and, in 1934, took a name meaning ""Father of the Turks""?" A: Kemal Ataturk
Q: What is the Japanese product kakiemon? A: Porcelain
Q: Which river with a vast delta to the South china Sea rises as the Za Qu in Tibet? A: Mekong
Q: Isfahan is a major city in which country? A: Iran
Q: Who was supposed to have told the Arabian Nights tales? A: Scheherazade
Q: Which is the highest mountain in the Alps? A: Mont Blanc
Q: Which country is divided into cantons? A: Switzerland
Q: In which Italian city would you find Leonardo's Last Supper? A: Milan
Q: Which is Italy's longest river? A: Po
Q: On which river does Verona stand? A: Adige
Q: Which poet died while helping the Greeks fight for their independence? A: Byron
Q: From which country did Iceland become independent in 1944? A: Denmark
Q: In which capital city is the Tivoli amusement park? A: Copenhagen
Q: On which river does Prague stand? A: Vltava
Q: Which European country restored its monarchy in 1975? A: Spain
Q: In which autonomous region of Spain are the cities of Cadiz and Cordoba? A: Andalusia
Q: Which European country colonized Brazil? A: Portugal
Q: Which country was defeated by the USSR in the Winter War of 1939? A: Finland
Q: What is the name of the bay between northern Spain and western France, known for its rough seas? A: Bay of Biscay
Q: Which city linked by canal with Rotterdam and Amsterdam, is the seat of the Netherlands government? A: The Hague
Q: Which is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea? A: Sicily
Q: Which city was the capital of West Germany from 1949 to 1990? A: Bonn
Q: "In which Cypriot town will you find the ""Tombs of the Rings""?" A: Paphos
Q: In which country did Grand Duke Jean become head of state in 1964? A: Luxembourg
Q: In which country was Pope John Paul II a cardinal before his election? A: Poland
Q: Which two countries have a border with Liechtenstein? A: Switzerland and Austria
Q: Which country has as its joint heads of state a Spaniard and a Frenchman? A: Andorra
Q: In which country was Adolf Hitler born? A: Austria
Q: Which two colors appear on the flag of Greece? A: Blue and white
Q: Which is further north, Corsica or Sardinia? A: Corsica
Q: Which European country left the Commonwealth and declared itself a republic in 1949? A: Eire
Q: The shamrock is the national badge of which country? A: Ireland
Q: In which capital city were the treaties signed that established the European Economic Community? A: Rome
Q: Which country was ruled for 40 years by the dictator Antonio Salazar? A: Portugal
Q: What nationality was the 16th-century poet and soldier Camoens? A: Portuguese
Q: Which group had most seats in the European Parliament after the 1989 election - the left, the centre or the right? A: The Left
Q: Of which island is Valletta the capital? A: Malta
Q: In Norway, what are Hardanger and Sogne? A: Fjords
Q: In which Polish city was the Solidarity union formed in 1989? A: Gdansk
Q: Which French river flows into the sea at St. Nazaire and is famous for its chateaux? A: Loire
Q: In which city does the Council of Europe sit? A: Strasbourg
Q: In which year were East and West Germany unified? A: 1990
Q: On which of the Greek islands did Bacchus find Ariadne, according to legend? A: Naxos
Q: Which country's parliament is called the Storting? A: Norway
Q: "Which German city is known as ""Aix-la-Chapelle in French?" A: Aachen
Q: What emblem appears on the flag of Albania? A: Eagle
Q: Where did Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin meet in 1945 to plan the final defeat of Germany? A: Yalta
Q: Which country first tried unsuccessfully to build the Panama Canal? A: France
Q: Which family ruled Florence for three centuries from 1434? A: Medici
Q: Who were the Celtic-speaking peoples living in France and Belgium during Roman times? A: Gauls
Q: Which king of England had a mother and a son who were both beheaded? A: James I
Q: Which battle of 1746 ended the Jacobite revolution? A: Culloden
Q: "What Soviet ""man of steel"" was educated for the priesthood but was expelled from the seminary?" A: Joseph Stalin
Q: What country sold land including the present-day states of Louisiana, Arkansas, and Oklahoma to the USA in 1803? A: France
Q: Which British monarch married Anne of Denmark? A: James I
Q: Which US president was shot five days after the end of the American Civil War? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: """What was the name of the Austrian-born dictator who succeeded Hindenburg as Germany's head of state?" A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who was the black educationist who was born a slave but became a leader in the search for civil rights in the early 1900s? A: Booker T. Washington
Q: "Which French revolutionary was nicknamed ""the Incorruptible""?" A: Robespierre
Q: Where did Florence Nightingale establish a hospital to treat casualties of the Crimean War? A: Scutari
Q: Which rebellion was effectively ended by the Battle of Culloden? A: Jacobite rebellion
Q: What was the first permanent English settlement in the New World, now in ruins? A: Jamestown
Q: Who was the first president of independent Kenya?| A: Jomo Kenyatta
Q: Which country was ruled by the Romanov dynasty 1613-1917? A: Russia
Q: Which country's liberalization program was halted by the invasion of 600,000 Soviet troops in 1968? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Which Axis Power changed sides during World War II, declaring war on Germany in October 1943? A: Italy
Q: Who was the first democratically elected Marxist head of state? A: Salvador Allende
Q: What was the name of the basalt slab that became the key for deciphering ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics? A: Rosetta Stone
Q: What title did Charlemagne, already king of the Franks, acquire in 800? A: Holy Roman Emperor
Q: What is the name of the British political regime 1649-60 established by Oliver Cromwell? A: The Commonwealth
Q: Who was the prime minister of South Africa who was assassinated in 1966? A: Hendrik Verwoerd
Q: "Which 17th-century king of Sweden was known as the ""Lion of the North""?" A: Gustavus Adolphus
Q: What year saw the nationalization of British Railways? A: 1948
Q: Who are the only two English sovereigns from whom Prince Charles is not descended? A: Charles II and James II
Q: Who succeeded the Roman emperor, Trajan? A: Hadrian
Q: Who was the admiral of the French fleet defeated by Nelson at the Battle of Trafalgar? A: Pierre de Villeneuve
Q: During which war was the Battle of Blenheim? A: War of Spanish Succession
Q: Which royal house consisted of Henry IV, Henry V and Henry VI? A: House of Lancaster
Q: In which Indian city did British troops open fire without warning on a crowd of 10,000 in 1919? A: Amritsar
Q: In which war was the Battle of Ramillies? A: War of Spanish Succession
Q: Which sultan of Egypt, who precipitated the third Crusade, subsequently made peace with Richard I? A: Saladin
Q: In which year did the Japanese attack Pearl Harbor? A: 1941
Q: In which naval battle did Rome decisively defeat the forces of Antony and Cleopatra? A: Battle of Actium
Q: "Which new policy in 1958 was an attempt to achieve ""true communism"" in China?" A: The Great Leap Forward
Q: Who was appointed successor to Hitler in 1939 but expelled from the Nazi party six years later? A: Hermann Goering
Q: What was ceded to Britain in 1713 as part of the settlement of the War of Spanish Succession? A: Gibraltar
Q: Who was the queen of the British king, Charles I? A: Henrietta (Maria)
Q: Where did George Washington's army endure the winter of 1777-78? A: Valley Forge
Q: Whom did Charles V confront at the Diet of Worms in 1521? A: Marin Luther
Q: What was the name of the Libyan king deposed by Colonel Kaddafi in 1969? A: King Idris
Q: Which US president ended his country's participation in the Vietnam War? A: Richard Nixon
Q: What was the first considerable engagement in the American Revolution? A: Bunker Hill
Q: Who succeeded Henry I as king of England in 1135? A: Stephan
Q: In which war was the Battle of Shiloh? A: American Civil War
Q: Which treaty after World War I established the League of Nations? A: Versailles
Q: In which year did the Korean War break out? A: 1950
Q: What is the official residence of the president of France? A: Elysee Palace
Q: Who set out his political ideas in Mein Kampf? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who preceded Ronald Reagan as American president? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: In which year was Ulster incorporated into the UK, under the Home Rule Act? A: 1920
Q: What name is shared by the chairs of the UK House of Commons and the US House of Representatives? A: Speaker
Q: Which is the lower house of the British parliament? A: House of Commons
Q: "Of what electoral system are ""single transferable vote"" and ""party list"" forms?" A: Proportional representation
Q: Who was the USA's vice president in 1990? A: Dan Quayle
Q: Which prime minister took Britain into the European Community in 1973? A: Edward Heath
Q: Which publication was the vehicle for John 'Wilkes's attacks on the Tories for which he was imprisoned in 1768? A: The North Briton
Q: What was enforced by Parliament in 1379 and was the trigger that caused the Peasants' Revolt? A: Poll tax
Q: In which country did Pol Pot lead the feared Khmer Rouge? A: Cambodia
Q: How often are American presidential elections held? A: Every four years
Q: Israel was proclaimed an independent state in 1948. Who was its prime minister from then until 1963? A: Ben-Gurion
Q: Who did Margaret Thatcher succeed as leader of the Conservative Party? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who said 'A week is a long time in politics'? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which Elizabethan politician, philosopher and essayist was fined L40,000 for taking bribes? A: Frances Bacon
Q: Who succeeded Clement Attlee as Labour Party leader in 1955? A: Hugh Gaitskell
Q: Whose book Sexual Politics was a landmark in feminist thinking? A: Kate Millett
Q: Which American economist is the foremost advocate of monetarism? A: Milton Friedman
Q: In what year did the Representation of the People Act give the vote to all women over 21? A: 1928
Q: Who was Italy's Fascist lender from 1925-43? A: Mussolini
Q: Which human-rights organization campaigns for the release of political prisoners worldwide?| A: Amnesty International
Q: Which British company was effectively the ruler of much of India until the India Act of 1858? A: East India Company
Q: What offence was former Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega tried for in the USA? A: Drug Trafficking
Q: Which are the two main political parties in the USA? A: Democrats and Republicans
Q: What do the British call the person other countries might call minister of the interior? A: Home Secretary
Q: Which British prime minister fell from office because of his repeal of the Corn Laws? A: Robert Peel
Q: Which Conservative MP was a middle-distance runner who won two Olympic gold medals and set eleven world records during the 1970s and 1980s? A: Sebastian Coe
Q: What was the racial segregation policy practiced by South Africa's National Party until 1994? A: Apartheid
Q: Which party was led by Adolf Hitler from 1921 to 1945? A: Nazi Party
Q: How old must you be to vote in a British parliamentary election? A: 18
Q: How many readings does an act of Parliament have in the House of Commons before being given royal assent? A: Three
Q: In which city did Karl Marx write Das Kapital? A: London
Q: Which party did F W de Klerk represent as South African president? A: National Party
Q: What is the term used when a sitting MP is removed as the candidate for a forthcoming election? A: Deselection
Q: Who played the part of Piers Fletcher Dervish, personal assistant to MP Alan B'stard, in the television comedy series The New Statesman? A: Michael Troughton
Q: Which MP entered Parliament as a Tory in 1833, but became Liberal prime minister in 1868? A: Gladstone
Q: Who was the last foreign secretary to serve in Margaret Thatcher's cabinet, an MP who also contested the leadership after her resignation? A: Douglas Hurd
Q: Which publication documents all proceedings of the British parliament? A: Hansard
Q: Which British minister of health inaugurated the National Health Service? A: Aneurin Bevan
Q: What is the name for the group of opposition spokesmen who comment on the policies of government ministers? A: Shadow cabinet
Q: "Who was ""Britain's first ever Labour prime minister in 1924?" A: James Ramsey MacDonald
Q: "What became known s ""the F-word"" at the 1991 Maastricht summit, where Britain wanted it removed from the treaty?" A: Federalism
Q: Which British actress won the Hampstead and Highgate seat for Labour in the 1992 General Election? A: Glenda Jackson
Q: Whose book Inside NO 10 described Harold Wilson's Downing Street years? A: Lady Falkender
Q: What is the Swedish name of the official who acts for the private citizen in complaints against the government? A: Ombudsman
Q: Which US president introduced the New Deal in 1933 to counter the depression? A: Franklin Roosevelt
Q: Mario Soares became the first socialist president of which country in 1986? A: Portugal
Q: What is the title of the member of the upper house equivalent to that of the Speaker in the lower house? A: Lord Chancellor
Q: Who was the first president of France's Fifth Republic? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Who was dismissed from office as Australian prime minister in 1975 after refusing to call a general election? A: Gough Whitlam
Q: "Which word, meaning ""I forbid"" in Latin, means the right to prevent a law being enacted or an action being taken?" A: Veto
Q: What collective name is given to the first ten amendments to the US constitution? A: Bill of Rights
Q: What is the collective name of the international agreements signed by all the member states of the European Community? A: Treaties of Rome
Q: In which year did Mikhail Gorbachev resign as Soviet president? A: 1991
Q: Which political commentator has presented both Weekend World and A Week in Politics? A: Peter Jay
Q: How many countries are there in the British Commonwealth? A: 50
Q: What is the Irish house of representatives called? A: Dil ireann
Q: Who was Pope for only 33 days in 1978? A: John Paul I
Q: Who was lead singer with the group Queen? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: Which author had the real name Charles Dodgson? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Who was the Lord Chancellor beheaded for refusing to recognize Henry VIII as head of the church? A: Thomas More
Q: Who led the Free French forces during World War II? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Which battle of 1876 was Custer's last stand? A: Little Bighorn
Q: Which actor, comedian and singer was born David Daniel Kaminski? A: Danny Kaye
Q: What nationality was the spy Mata Hari? A: Dutch
Q: "Who said: ""The customer is always right""?" A: Harry Gordon Selfridge
Q: "What pen name was used by the Spanish orator Dolores Ibarruri, who said ""It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees""?" A: La Pasionaria
Q: For what purpose did Melvil Dewey devise his decimal system in 1876? A: Classifying books
Q: Who was the king of rock and roll? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Who was Sherlock Holmes' assistant? A: Dr. Watson
Q: What are the indigenous people of new Zealand called? A: Maoris
Q: Who was the film star who married Prince Rainier III of Monaco? A: Grace Kelly
Q: What was the first name of the politician Gladstone, the composer Walton, and the reformer Wilberforce? A: William
Q: Of which tribe was Goliath the champion? A: Philistines
Q: What nickname was given to General Thomas Jackson because of his stern defense at the battle of Bull Run? A: Stonewall
Q: Which Christian martyr was first bishop of Rome? A: St. Peter
Q: Who was the most famous of English lexicographers? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: In which of the arts has Richard Avedon distinguished himself? A: Photography
Q: Which religious grou0p migrated westward to the Great Salt Lake, Utah, in 1847? A: Mormons
Q: "Which 18th-century dictionary compiler defined himself as a ""harmless drudge""?" A: Samuel Johnson
Q: Who was president of the USSR from 1985-91? A: Mikhail Gorbachev
Q: What was the name of the Thracian slave who led an ultimately unsuccessful gladiator revolt against Rome in 73 BC? A: Spartacus
Q: Which English king abdicated and became Duke of Windsor? A: Edward VIII
Q: Who was the first man in space in 1961? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: What invention made the fortune of Alfred Noel, founder of the Nobel prize? A: Dynamite
Q: Whose circus did General Tom Thumb join at the age of five in 1843? A: P T Barnum
Q: Of which country was de Valera the prime minister, and later the president? A: Ireland
Q: "Which actress starred opposite Alan Ladd in the film ""The Blue Dahlia""?" A: Veronica Lake
Q: "Which French fashion designer created the ""Little black dress""?" A: Coco Chanel
Q: What is the sticky wax obtained from sheep? A: Lanolin
Q: What is the trade name for the non-stick material used for coating cooking pans? A: Teflon
Q: What name is given to the brittle kind of iron used for making engine blocks and manhole covers? A: Cast Iron
Q: Which scientific unit gives a measure of loudness? A: Decibel
Q: The behavior of sound in rooms and concert halls is a separate science. what is its name? A: Acoustics
Q: What kind of animal is an iguana? A: Reptile
Q: What is the name given to the molten rock beneath the surface of the Earth? A: Magma
Q: Which disease is spread in minute water drops? A: Legionnaire's disease
Q: What is the strong inelastic material found in a human tendon? A: Collagen
Q: What material forms the hard outermost layer of a human tooth? A: Enamel
Q: Snowflakes are symmetrical. How many sides do they have? A: Six
Q: What name is given to an atomic particle carrying a negative charge? A: Electron
Q: DNA is found in which part of the cell? A: Nucleus
Q: By which name is the drug acetylsalicylic acid better known? A: Aspirin
Q: How many legs has an insect? A: Six
Q: Which flower has the same name as a diaphragm in the eye? A: Iris
Q: Which animals are arthropods and have eight legs? A: Arachnids
Q: Which is the modern scientific unit of work and energy? A: Joule
Q: Chlorine, fluorine and bromine belong to which family of elements? A: Halogens
Q: Which was the first antibiotic to be discovered? A: Penicillin
Q: What is the boiling point of water? A: 100 degrees Celsius
Q: Ascorbic acid is which vitamin? A: Vitamin C
Q: What is the generic term for the mechanical, electrical and electronic components of a computer? A: Hardware
Q: Whose research on X-ray diffraction of ?DNA crystals helped Crick and Watson during the race to discover the structure of DNA? A: Rosalind Franklin
Q: Heisenberg is most associated with which branch of physics? A: Quantum Mechanics
Q: What did Heike Kamerlingh-Onnes discover? A: Superconductivity
Q: What science is the study of missiles in motion? A: Ballistics
Q: What kind of elements are found in a pure state in nature? A: Native elements
Q: "What are classified by their measurement in degrees as ""right"", ""reflex"", ""obtuse"", or ""acute""?" A: Angles
Q: What is the name given to the longest side of a right-angled triangle? A: Hypotenuse
Q: Which Swedish scientist had a temperature scale named after him? A: Anders Celsius
Q: How many colors are there in the spectrum when white light is separated? A: Seven
Q: The discovery of which law provoked the surprised cry 'Eureka!'? A: Archimedes Principle
Q: What is the study and use of frequencies above 20 khz? A: Ultrasonic's
Q: What is an unchanging position in which forces cancel each other out? A: Equilibrium
Q: Which physicist's law states that equal volumes of all gases, measured at the same temperature and pressure, contain the same number of molecules? A: Amadeo Avogadro
Q: What is the ability of fluids to offer resistance to flow? A: Viscosity
Q: What is described as an ionized gas with approximately equal numbers of positive and negative charges? A: Plasma
Q: What name is given to the very serious chain of events which can follow the failure of the cooling system in a nuclear reactor? A: Meltdown
Q: Which electronic device magnifies the strength of a signal? A: Amplifier
Q: What was the name of the unit of heat now replaced by the joule? A: Calorie
Q: What does c represent in the equation e = mc*2? A: Speed of light
Q: What is a cylindrical coil of wire in which a magnetic field is created when an electric current is passed though it? A: Solenoid
Q: What describes a substance that exists in more than one form, differing in physical rather than chemical properties? A: Allotropic
Q: Whose 'unified field theory' tried to explain the four fundamental forces in terms of a single, unified force? A: Einstein
Q: What diverges rays of light, if it is concave? A: Lens
Q: What can be expressed as the number of cycles of a vibration occurring per unit of time? A: Frequency
Q: What is the product of the mass of a body and its linear velocity? A: Momentum
Q: Which quantity has direction as well as magnitude? A: Vector quantity
Q: What is the SI unit of magnetic flux density, named after a Croatian electrical engineer? A: Tesla
Q: What is studied in the science of cryogenics? A: Very low temperature
Q: What is the favorite food of the giant panda? A: Bamboo shoots
Q: What kind of an animal is a marmoset? A: An American monkey
Q: Which plant has flowers but no proper leaves? A: Cactus
Q: What name is given to animals that eat both flesh and plant material? A: Omnivores
Q: Which flightless marine birds of the southern hemisphere live in rookeries? A: Penguins
Q: "Which species of decapod has varieties called ""fiddler', 'spider' and 'hermit'?" A: Crab
Q: Which digestive organ is well-developed in grass-eating herbivores, but is only vestigial in humans? A: Appendix
Q: Which are the only birds able to fly backwards? A: Hummingbirds
Q: Photosynthesis is carried out in which part of the cell? A: Chloroplast
Q: What is the name of the protective outer layer of trees? A: Bark
Q: What liquid do plants need for photosynthesis? A: Water
Q: What are the young of bats called? A: Pups
Q: What is the larva of a toad called? A: Tadpole
Q: Which bird, a member of the cuckoo family, is often seen dashing along the highways of the southern USA and Mexico... hence its name? A: Roadrunner
Q: What grow as parasites and saprotrophs, contain no chlorophyll, and reproduce by means of spores? A: Fungi
Q: Why do fish have gills? A: To absorb oxygen
Q: Which animal can move by jet propulsion? A: Octopus
Q: What name is given to the microscopic plants found in great numbers in rivers, lakes, and oceans? A: Algae
Q: What are the nocturnal, herding herbivores of Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea? A: Kangaroos
Q: Where in an animal would you find a mandible? A: Skull
Q: What is a beaver's home called? A: Lodge
Q: Which tissue carries sugary sap around the plant? A: Phloem
Q: Which cells form the middle layer of plant leaves? A: Mesophyll
Q: Which antipodean bird is the largest member of the kingfisher family? A: Kookaburra
Q: Which microscopic organisms form the basis of marine and freshwater food chains? A: Plankton
Q: Which bird feeds with its head upside-down and its beak held horizontally beneath the water? A: Flamingo
Q: What kind of a tongue does the okapi have? A: Prehensile
Q: What do baleen whales eat? A: Krill
Q: Which South American vulture can have a wing span of up to 3 meters and a body weight of up to 13 kilos? A: Condor
Q: Which part of a beetle's body is a skeleton? A: The outside
Q: What is the name of the structures which allow leaves to breathe? A: Stomata
Q: Which sub-division of plants is named after their practice of forming 'naked seeds'? A: Gymnosperms
Q: The maidenhair tree is the sole survivor of which class of plant? A: Ginko
Q: What is the state of inactivity through the dry, summer season, as hibernation is the dormancy of the winter months? A: Aestivation
Q: What kind of a creature is a scorpion? A: Arachnid
Q: Which part of the common valerian is used to make a sedative? A: Root
Q: What is the name of the structures which allow stems to breathe? A: Lenticels
Q: Which acid is contained in rhubarb leaves, making them poisonous to eat? A: Oxalic acid
Q: What kind of an organism causes a 'rust' attack on plants? A: Fungus
Q: Which is the dominant generation in the ferns? A: Sporophyte
Q: What is the name of the lustrous substance that forms pearl and mother-of-pearl? A: Nacre
Q: What is the name of the so-called 'first-bird'? A: Archaeopteryx
Q: What is the Latin word for 'liquid' which we use to mean the fluid produced by the tree Ficus elastica? A: Latex
Q: What is the main use of the tree Citrus bergamia? A: Perfume
Q: Which physician developed a type of remedy involving wild flowers? A: Bach
Q: The best longbows were constructed from which wood? A: Yew
Q: How many species of domestic dog are found today? A: One
Q: What kind of creature is a barnacle? A: A crustacean
Q: Machiavelli used which plant's name as the title of one of his books? A: Mandrake
Q: What is the name of the evolutionary theory suggesting that evolution has an uneven pace? A: Punctuated equilibrium
Q: Which step in photosynthesis is responsible for splitting water molecules? A: Light reaction
Q: Which kind of organisms are likely to show a 'taxis'? A: Protozoa
Q: Which part of the brain regulates physiological stability in the body? A: Hypothalamus
Q: Which organ is responsible for regulating the blood sugar level? A: Pancreas
Q: What is the scientific name for the human ''tail'? A: Coccyx
Q: When might a person show rapid eye movement (REM)? A: During sleep
Q: Which organ removes excess water from the blood? A: Kidney
Q: Which is the most acidic part of the digestive system? A: Stomach
Q: A deficiency of which vitamin can cause scurvy? A: Vitamin C
Q: What are the two main veins in the neck, returning blood from the brain to the heart? A: Jugular veins
Q: What is the term fro a series of uncontrollable intakes of air caused by sudden spasms of the diaphragm? A: Hiccups
Q: Which part of the eye contains about 137 million light-sensitive cells in one square inch? A: Retina
Q: What is the more common name for the tympanic membrane? A: Ear drum
Q: What is the name for a red blood cell? A: Erythrocyte
Q: What is the scientific name for the windpipe? A: Trachea
Q: Where do the Graafian follicles develop? A: Ovaries
Q: Where would you find the pisiform bone? A: Wrist
Q: What is the scientific name for the kneecap? A: Patella
Q: What is protected by the cranium? A: Brain
Q: What is the name of the large muscle just beneath the lungs? A: Diaphragm
Q: Where in the body is the thyroid? A: The neck
Q: Which organ in the body stores excess sugar as glycogen? A: Liver
Q: What name is given to the small bones which form the spinal column? A: Vertebrae
Q: Where in the body are the cerebellum, the medulla and the hypothalamus? A: Brain
Q: What makes up 60-70% of human body weight? A: Water
Q: What are the very narrow blood vessels which form a network between arteries and veins? A: Capillaries
Q: What is the ring of bones at the hip called? A: Pelvic girdle
Q: What tube connects the kidney to the bladder? A: Ureter
Q: What is the name of the structural tissue found in the ear, the nose, and in between the vertebral discs? A: Cartilage
Q: Which artery supplies the kidney with blood? A: Renal artery
Q: How many ventricles are there in the human heart? A: Two
Q: What is the scientific name for the tube connecting the mouth with the stomach? A: Oesophagus
Q: Which parts of the body are formed by the bones of the metatarsals and phalanges? A: Feet
Q: What is the fluid that lubricates and cushions the movable joints between the bones? A: Synovial fluid
Q: What is the oxygen-carrying protein found in the red blood cells of the body? A: Hemoglobin
Q: What are the chemicals produced by the endocrine glands to control body functions? A: Hormones
Q: Where in the human body do you find the alveoli? A: Lung
Q: What name is given to the genetic make-up of an individual? A: Genotype
Q: A bone is joined to a muscle by which structure? A: Tendon
Q: What is the biggest bone in the body? A: Femur
Q: Which of the retina's cells can distinguish between different wavelengths of light? A: Cone cells
Q: Which hormone causes male sexual development? A: Testosterone
Q: Which part of the brain controls the heart rate? A: Medulla oblongata
Q: What is an overgrowth of fibrous tissue, usually produced at the site of a scar? A: Keloid
Q: Which is the only vein in the body to carry oxygenated blood? A: Pulmonary vein
Q: Which human body organ weighs about 2 kilos? A: Liver
Q: Which name is given to the heart chamber which receives blood? A: Atrium
Q: What kind of joint is the hip? A: Ball-and-socket
Q: Where is the sinoatrial node? A: Heart
Q: What is the substance that the body over-produces in an allergic reaction to pollen? A: Histamine
Q: Which organ of the body secretes insulin? A: Pancreas
Q: Which part of the gut absorbs water from thje food? A: Colon
Q: Where would you find the islets of Langerhans? A: Pancreas
Q: What is the colored muscle that responds involuntarily to light? A: Iris
Q: What is the name of the enzyme produced in the mouth? A: Salivary amylase
Q: The pituitary controls many hormones, but what controls the pituitary? A: Hypothalamus
Q: What is the pigment that colors skin? A: Melanin
Q: Which tissue secretes progesterone during the second half of the menstrual cycle? A: Corpus luteum
Q: Which gland secretes the corticosteroids? A: Adrenal
Q: What are the natural pain-killing substances produced in the brain and pituitary gland? A: Endorphins
Q: What hormone was discovered by John Jacob Abel? A: Adrenaline
Q: What is the substance produced by hard exercise and oxygen debt, causing stiffness in the muscles? A: Lactic acid
Q: Where would you find the carotid arteries? A: Neck
Q: Which protein forms hair and nails? A: Keratin
Q: Which gas released by car exhausts, stops the blood hemoglobin from working correctly? A: Carbon Monoxide
Q: What device is added to a car's exhaust system to reduce pollution? A: Catalytic converter
Q: Which Australian mammal lays eggs? A: Duck-billed platypus
Q: What is the term for something that will break down naturally? A: Biodegradable
Q: Which is the most common gas in the atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: Which fuel is formed by the fossilization of plants? A: Coal
Q: Oxygen forms approximately what proportion of the atmosphere? A: 20%
Q: What kind of tide appears at full Moon? A: Spring tide
Q: What is the term given to the study of the weather? A: Meteorology
Q: What is the name given to the outermost layer of the Earth? A: Crust
Q: Which country produces the world's largest quantity of municipal waste per person per year? A: USA
Q: Which sea is so highly polluted that the Barcelona Convention was set up in 976 to try and clean it up? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: What is the scientific scale for measuring the hardness of rocks? A: Mohs' scale
Q: What is the world's smallest continent? A: Australia
Q: Which gas forms approximately 1% of the atmosphere? A: Argon
Q: What is the term for the energy obtained from hot, underground rocks? A: Geothermal
Q: What name is given to the rocks swallowed by dinosaurs to assist their digestion? A: Gastroliths
Q: Which animal has been hunted almost to extinction because of its horn? A: Rhinoceros
Q: Which chemical, commonly used to increase crop yield, sometimes contaminates drinking water? A: Nitrate
Q: When you recycle a drink can, which metal is it you are recovering? A: Aluminum
Q: What is the name of the liquid rock which pours from a volcano? A: Lava
Q: What is the term applied to the process of gathering together weather forecasts from various recording stations? A: Synoptic forecasting
Q: What kind of natural phenomenon 'meanders'? A: A river
Q: What is the collective name for rain hail, snow, and sleet? A: Precipitation
Q: What is the hardest natural substance known? A: Diamond
Q: What is the collective noun for crows? A: Murder
Q: What is the maximum speed of a garden snail: 0.03 mph, 0.3 mph, or 3 mph? A: 0.03 mph
Q: What common mineral is formed by the fossilization of vegetation? A: Coal
Q: In which part of the atmosphere is the ozone layer? A: Stratosphere
Q: Which Indian state is at the eastern end of the Himalayas? A: Assam
Q: What is the name of the atmospheric gas which screens out the sun's harmful ultraviolet radiation? A: Ozone
Q: What is the world's deepest ocean? A: Pacific
Q: Which is the largest animal ever to have inhabited the Earth? A: Blue Whale
Q: What once covered 14% of the Earth's land area, but by 1991 over half had been destroyed? A: Rainforest
Q: Which inland sea between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan is fast disappearing because the rivers that feed it have been diverted and dammed? A: Aral Sea
Q: The damaged Chernobyl nuclear power station is situated in which country? A: Ukraine
Q: What type of rock is granite? A: Igneous
Q: What type of rock is basalt? A: Igneous
Q: What is the main constituent of natural gas? A: Methane
Q: Which of the Earth's atmospheric layers reflects radio waves? A: Ionosphere
Q: Which gas forms 80% of Earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: In which mountain chain would you find Mount Everest? A: Himalayas
Q: What is the collective term for substances such as coal, oil and natural gas, the burning of which produces carbon dioxide? A: Fossil fuel
Q: What contributes to the greenhouse effect at lower atmospheric levels, but in the upper atmosphere protects life on Earth? A: Ozone
Q: What is the name of the process by which substances are washed out of the soil? A: Leaching
Q: Who was director of the environmental pressure group Friends of the Earth 1984 - 90? A: Jonathon Porritt
Q: Which European country is committed to decommissioning all of its nuclear reactors? A: Sweden
Q: Which Canadian city gave its name to the 1987world agreement on protection of the ozone layer? A: Montreal
Q: The dodo was a native bird of which island? A: Mauritius
Q: What is the name given to the study of earthquakes? A: Seismology
Q: Marble is formed by the metamorphosis of which rock? A: Limestone
Q: Which common water pollutant is believed to be harmful to newborn babies? A: Nitrate
Q: What natural feature covers approximately 6% of the Earth's land surface, and harbors 40% of the Earth's species? A: Tropical rainforest
Q: What name is given to the huge growths of algae sometimes seen in polluted lakes and rivers? A: A bloom
Q: What was the name of the dioxin-containing defoliant used during the Vietnam war by the USA army? A: Agent Orange
Q: CITES is an international agreement on which environmental problem? A: The trade in endangered species
Q: What prevents the earth's atmosphere from floating out into space? A: Gravity
Q: Which of the emissions from cars are acidic? A: Nitrogen oxides
Q: Which quarry in the Italian region of Tuscany is renowned for the quality of its marble? A: Carrara
Q: What is the name given to the geological time period of 363-290 million years ago during which coal measures were formed? A: Carboniferous
Q: Which is further north, the tropic of cancer or the tropic of Capricorn? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: What name is given to your angular distance on the Earth's surface relative to the equator? A: Latitude
Q: Which landlocked Asian country is described as the world's 'highest rubbish dump' because of all the refuse left behind by expeditions? A: Nepal
Q: What name is given to the layer of the atmosphere closest to the surface of the Earth? A: Troposphere
Q: What name is given to the Earth's single continent, which existed 250 million years ago? A: Pangaea
Q: What component of CFCs causes destruction of ozone? A: Chlorine
Q: What does a barometer measure? A: Atmospheric pressure
Q: What is the basic chemical composition of malachite? A: Copper carbonate
Q: What is the term for a fold of the Earth's crust in which the layers of rock dip inwards? A: Syncline
Q: Which clouds only occur above 10,000 meters? A: Cirrus
Q: What kind of a person might study a podzol? A: A soil scientist
Q: Which gas in the atmosphere can be turned into fertilizer by some microbes? A: Nitrogen
Q: Which layer of the Earth is believed to be formed of molten iron and nickel? A: Outer core
Q: What is the collective noun for rhinoceri? A: Crash
Q: What type of rock is formed by the rapid cooling of molten lava? A: Obsidian
Q: What name is given to the rock formations used as a source of water? A: Aquifers
Q: How long does it take for the Earth to spin once on its axis? A: One day
Q: What is a very hard, naturally-occurring mineral, of which ruby and sapphire are gem quality varieties? A: Corundum
Q: Corundum is a mineral oxide of which metal? A: Aluminum
Q: What is the name of the force which keeps the planets in orbit around the sun? A: Gravity
Q: Which planet is named after the Roman god of war? A: Mars
Q: Which planet is closest to the sun? A: Mercury
Q: Which two planets take less time than Earth to orbit the sun? A: Mercury and Venus
Q: Which planet has a day which lasts eight months? A: Venus
Q: What is the term for a natural satellite? A: Moon
Q: Who was the first man in space? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: Which was the first space probe to leave the solar system? A: Pioneer 10
Q: What is almost halfway through its 10-billion-year life, will expand to become a red giant and then shrink to become a white dwarf? A: The sun
Q: Which planet orbits the Sun four times in the time it takes the Earth to go round once? A: Mercury
Q: Which is the largest moon in the solar system? A: Ganymede
Q: Where, theoretically, might one find objects squeezed to an infinite density? A: Black Hole
Q: Which is the largest moon of Saturn? A: Titan
Q: Which is the largest planet in the solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the smallest planet in the solar system? A: Pluto
Q: Which is the brightest comet in the solar system? A: Halley's comet
Q: What would you find if you travelled to the centre of the solar system? A: The Sun
Q: How many planets are there in the solar system? A: Nine
Q: Which planet is named after the Roman goddess of love? A: Venus
Q: What kind of extraterrestrial objet has been named after the 17th-century astronomer Edmond Halley? A: A Comet
Q: What was the first artificial satellite? A: Sputnik 1
Q: What is the name of the space shuttle destroyed in midair 28 Jan 1986? A: Challenger
Q: What, ultimately, will the sun become? A: A white dwarf
Q: Which planet takes almost 30 Earth years to orbit the sun? A: Saturn
Q: What is the most distant object visible to the naked eye? A: Andromeda galaxy
Q: Which planet is the densest? A: Earth
Q: What is the name given to the super dense stars that sometimes result form a supernova? A: Neutron Stars
Q: What shape is the Milky Way? A: Spiral
Q: When was the first Pioneer space probe launched? A: 1958
Q: Which planet id named after the sky-god who was father of the Titans? A: Uranus
Q: Visible sunspots vary in number according to a cycle of how many years? A: Eleven
Q: Which planet is usually the furthest form the Sun, but sometimes is not? A: Pluto
Q: What was the name of the American mission to land a man on the Moon? A: Apollo project
Q: What was the name of the American space station? A: Skylab
Q: Which country built the Saturn V rocket? A: USA
Q: Which objects in space emit energy in pulses? A: Pulsars
Q: What travels around the Sun at an average speed of 185 miles per second. A: The earth
Q: Which is the second lightest element in the universe? A: Helium
Q: What is the name of the thousands of small bodies which orbit the Sun? A: Asteroids
Q: What can contract to give birth to a star? A: A nebula
Q: What is the name for the study of the structure of the universe? A: Cosmology
Q: What units are used for measuring distances in the universe? A: Light years
Q: What is another name for a shooting or falling star? A: Meteor
Q: What is the Latin name for the North Star? A: Polaris
Q: Scientists study the red shift to investigate which aspect of cosmology? A: The expansion of the universe
Q: Which planet possesses the Galilean satellites? A: Jupiter
Q: What is brighter than a hundred million suns? A: A supernova
Q: Who developed the 'aperture synthesis' method of radio astronomy? A: Martin Ryle
Q: Saturn's ring has how many sections? A: Three
Q: What was the name of two space probes launched in 1977 which sent back remarkable pictures of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune? A: voyager 1 and voyager 2
Q: Which planet has one moon called Charon? A: Pluto
Q: What are the clouds of interstellar dust, said to be the birthplace of stars? A: Nebulae
Q: What is the astronomical unit equal to 32,616 light years? A: Parsec
Q: Which is the second largest planet in the solar system? A: Saturn
Q: Which planet has been the focus of investigations for signs of life? A: Mars
Q: In the general theory of relativity what causes space-time to be modified? A: Mass
Q: Which space probes failed to find life on Mars? A: Viking probes
Q: Which type of celestial object emits bursts of energy at regular intervals? A: Pulsar
Q: What is the defining feature of a neutron star? A: Great density
Q: Which country has the airline KLM? A: The Netherlands
Q: What two letters are worth the most in a game of Scrabble? A: Q and Z
Q: After how many years of marriage would you celebrate your ruby anniversary? A: 40
Q: Where would a troglodyte live? In a cave, up a tree or underwater? A: In a cave
Q: How many counters does each player have at the start of a game of backgammon? A: 15
Q: How many centimetres make up a hand, the measurement used on horses? A: 10
Q: In what year did the weather forecast appear in The Times newspaper for the first time? A: 1860
Q: What is the largest of the West Indian islands? A: Cuba
Q: St Johnstown was once the capital city of Scotland. By what name is St Johnstown now known? A: Perth
Q: What is the largest city in Switzerland? A: Zurich
Q: The Ural Mountains form a natural border between which two continents? A: Asia and Europe
Q: What is the capital of Iraq? A: Baghdad
Q: In which English County can you find 4 towns with the suffix Regis? A: Dorset
Q: In which ocean is the island group the Maldives? A: The Indian Ocean
Q: Which river runs through the Grand Canyon? A: The Colorado
Q: What country had the Roman name Hibernia? A: Ireland
Q: Which superhero has a butler named Alfred? A: Batman
Q: What is Hypnophobia the fear of? A: Sleep
Q: What famous person has the real name of Eldrick Woods? A: Tiger Woods
Q: What is Fred Flintstone's wife called? A: Wilma
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of monkeys? A: A troop
Q: Which film about Vietnam won the best picture at the 1978 Oscars? A: The Deer Hunter
Q: What became the tallest building in the world when it opened in 1931? A: The Empire State Building
Q: In what year did Percy L. Spencer invent the microwave? A: 1947
Q: Which famous character was created by Michael Bond in a series of books for children? A: Paddington Bear
Q: Which of the Bronte sisters wrote Wuthering Heights? A: Emily
Q: Becky Sharp is the name of a character in which famous novel, which is also the title of a famous magazine? A: Vanity Fair
Q: In George Orwell's Animal Farm what type of animal was Napoleon? A: A pig
Q: What rock did Graham Greene write about? A: Brighton Rock
Q: All children, except one, grow up is the opening line from which famous story? A: Peter Pan
Q: Who wrote the novel The 39 Steps? A: John Buchan
Q: Which famous book, published in 1816, is sub-titled The Modern Prometheus? A: Frankenstein
Q: When was the nobel prize for literature first awarded? A: 1901
Q: What major war began on 10 October, 1899? A: The Boer War
Q: The words Czar and Kaiser are both derived from which famous person in history? A: Julius Caesar
Q: Which British monarch was on the throne at the beginning of the 20th Century? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which American President ordered the dropping of the first atomic bomb? A: Harry S Truman
Q: Florence Nightingale was a nurse during which war? A: The Crimean War
Q: What were the surnames of Bonnie and Clyde? A: Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow
Q: Which brothers invented the airplane in 1903? A: Wilbur and Orville Wright
Q: How many funnels did the Titanic have? A: Four
Q: In what year was highwayman Dick Turpin hanged? A: 1739
Q: Maximus Decimus Meridius was the main character in which film? A: Gladiator
Q: In which 1955 film does Frank Sinatra play Nathan Detroit? A: Guys And Dolls
Q: What is the full title to the sequel to the film Home Alone? A: Home Alone 2: Lost In New York
Q: On the set of what film did Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman fall in love and then got married later in the same year? A: Days Of Thunder
Q: For which newspaper does Clark Kent work in Superman? A: The Daily Planet
Q: Chemically pure gold contains how many carats? A: 24
Q: What is the boiling point of water in degrees Fahrenheit? A: 212
Q: Who wrote the book A Brief History Of Time? A: Stephen Hawking
Q: What did Nicholas Copernicus argue was at the centre of our universe, and what was the common belief before then? A: The Sun - before then people believed it was the Earth
Q: How is the gas Nitrous Oxide better known? A: Laughing gas
Q: In what year was Albert Einstein born? A: 1879
Q: How many housing property squares are there on a Monopoly board? A: 22
Q: Is the bottom stripe on the USA flag red or white? A: Red
Q: How many times does the letter p occur in the first line of the tongue twister about Peter Piper? A: 9
Q: Which line on the London Underground is represented by the colour yellow? A: The Circle Line
Q: If a month has a Friday the thirteenth then on what day of the week would that month begin? A: Sunday
Q: Out of all the animals which make up the Chinese horoscope, which comes first alphabetically? A: Dog
Q: What type of dogs are commonly kept by Eskimos? A: Huskies
Q: If the cheetah is the fastest thing on four legs, what is the fastest on two legs? A: The ostrich
Q: What is the national bird of New Zealand? A: The kiwi
Q: The body of the Egyptian Sphinx was based on which animal? A: A lion
Q: What colour are the spots on a common ladybird? A: Black
Q: The Chihauhau dog derives it's name from a town in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Out of all the animals in the Chinese horoscope, which comes last alphabetically? A: Tiger
Q: Which famous footballer left Tottenham in 1992 to join Japanese side Grampus Eight? A: Gary Lineker
Q: On a football pitch, how many yards should the penalty spot be from the goal line? A: 12
Q: In what year was the first World Cup held? A: 1930
Q: What was the number on the back of the jersey that both Maradona and Pele said was lucky? A: 10
Q: Who managed the first English side to win the European Cup? A: Matt Busby
Q: Which English football team are nicknamed the Hornets? A: Watford
Q: Which is the only country to have played in every World Cup since it started in 1930? A: Brazil
Q: The book Macca Can was about which ex-Liverpool footballer? A: Steve McMahon
Q: Which European football club is nicknamed La Vicchia Signora, which translates as the old lady? A: Juventus
Q: In what year was the first penalty scored in an FA Cup final? A: 1910
Q: Which male singer sang the opening line of the original Band Aid single Do They Know It's Christmas? A: Paul Young's
Q: By what name is Graham McPherson better known as in the music world? A: Suggs
Q: Which 90s song includes the line What a wicked thing to do, to make me dream of you? A: Wicked Game
Q: What was Blondie's first UK number one single? A: Heart Of Glass
Q: What single by Wet Wet Wet spent 15 weeks at number one in the UK charts in 1994? A: Love Is All Around
Q: Which comedy duo had a number one hit in the UK with The Stonk in 1991? A: Hale And Pace
Q: The Beatles' last live performance was at Candlestick Park in San Francisco. In what year was this? A: 1966
Q: What song was the Christmas number one in the UK in both 1975 and 1991? A: Bohemian Rhapsody
Q: What organisation is also known as La Cosa Nostra? A: The Mafia
Q: Which American president gave the order to withdraw from the Vietnam War? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who wrote The old man of Lochnagar? A: Prince Charles
Q: In the stock exchange what animal is used as a nickname to describe someone who sells shares thinking that the price will fall? A: Bear
Q: If you were born on Christmas day, what would your star sign be? A: Capricorn
Q: What type of headgear was named after a battle in the Crimean War? A: Balaclava
Q: What nationality was Christopher Columbus? A: Italian
Q: When women first got the vote in Britain in 1918, how old did they have to be? A: 30
Q: Who in 1961 made the first space flight? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: What was the Roman name for Scotland? A: Caledonia
Q: What was the first country to issue postage stamps? A: Great Britain
Q: What famous building did John Nash rebuild in 1825? A: Buckingham Palace
Q: Who was the first American President to resign from office? A: Richard Nixon
Q: For how many years did Louis XIV of France reign? A: 72
Q: In what country was the game of golf invented? A: Scotland
Q: How many players in total get down in a normal rugby union scrum? A: 16
Q: How many players make up a netball team? A: 7
Q: What is the maximum no of match points that can be held at one time in a tennis match at Wimbledon? A: 6
Q: In what year was the first World Snooker Championship held? A: 1927
Q: In the novel 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea what was the name of the captain of the submarine Nautilus? A: Captain Nemo
Q: In the series of children's Noddy books, what is the name of the policeman? A: Mr. Plod
Q: To what animal was Robert Burns referring in his poem with the lines Wee, sleekit, cow'rin, tim'rous beastie? A: A mouse
Q: Which French artist, born in 1834 was best known for his paintings of ballet dancers? A: Edgar Degas
Q: What novel by Ray Bradbury was named for the temperature at which book paper catches fire and burns? A: Fahrenheit 451
Q: Who wrote The Ugly Duckling and The Emperor's New Clothes? A: Hans Christian Anderson
Q: What are the first names of the four children who enter Narnia through a wardrobe in The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe? A: Susan, Peter, Edmund and Lucy
Q: In what year did Agatha Christie die? A: 1976
Q: What is the only venomous snake in Britain? A: The Adder
Q: Built in 1869, which famous British ship was named after a Scottish undergarment? A: The Cutty Sark
Q: In which British city would you find Arthur's Seat? A: Edinburgh
Q: The popular British pub name The Royal Oak is named after which King? A: Charles II
Q: What is the oldest University in Britain? A: Oxford
Q: In which British city was Guy Fawkes born and Dick Turpin killed? A: York
Q: In which year was British Prime Minister Spencer Perceval assasinated? A: 1812
Q: What is the tallest and thickest type of grass? A: Bamboo
Q: In nature, what does a dendrologist study? A: Trees
Q: What is the largest mammal in the world and can reach a length of 100 foot? A: The Blue Whale
Q: What is the only known substance that naturally exists on Earth in all three chemical states? A: Water
Q: What is the only animal to have four knees? A: Elephant
Q: In what year did Sir Frederick Banting and J. J. R. MacLeod discover insulin? A: 1922
Q: What is the hottest, driest, and lowest place in North America called? A: Death Valley
Q: What is the second most common letter used in the English language? A: T
Q: In which hand does the Statue Of Liberty hold a torch? Left or Right? A: Right
Q: How many yards are in a furlong? A: 220
Q: What is the only gemstone to be composed of one single element? A: Diamond
Q: How many stars appear on the flag of New Zealand? A: 4
Q: Which popular sport features in the NATO phonetic alphabet? A: Golf
Q: Who first argued that the world was not flat? A: Aristotle
Q: Which metal is the best conductor of electricity? A: Silver
Q: The binary system of numbers uses which two numerical digits? A: 1 and 0
Q: Which scientist was born in Germany in 1879, became a Swiss citizen in 1901 and later became a US citizen in 1940? A: Albert Einstein
Q: What is the sum of the internal angles in a hexagon? A: 720 degrees
Q: What is the most common blood type in humans? A: O
Q: What is the atomic number of the element Californium? A: 98
Q: Which 1974 sequel won six Oscars? A: The Godfather: Part 2
Q: Which 1986 film had the tag-line Be afraid. Be very afraid.? A: The Fly
Q: Who provided the voice of the genie in the 1992 animated film Aladdin? A: Robin Williams
Q: What 1968 film features the characters Caractacus Potts and Truly Scrumptious? A: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang
Q: What was the first film that Alfred Hitchcock made in Hollywood and the only one that won a Best Picture Oscar? A: Rebecca
Q: Which actor provides the voice for Rocky in the film Chicken Run? A: Mel Gibson
Q: When Walt Disney's seven dwarfs went off to work in the mines, what were they looking for? A: Diamonds
Q: In which year was the film studio Paramount opened? A: 1912
Q: James Earl Ray was responsible for who's death in 1968? A: Martin Luther King's
Q: Who created havoc in 1938, when his radio broadcast of The War Of The Worlds was believed to be true? A: Orson Welles
Q: Which major British newspaper closed down for almost a year in 1978? A: The Times
Q: Who was the biggest selling female artist in America in the 1990s? A: Mariah Carey
Q: Which American President saw active service in both the first and second World Wars? A: Eisenhower
Q: What nationality was painter Salvador Dali? A: Spanish
Q: The name Wendy was first made up in which famous book? A: Peter Pan
Q: What 1948 novel was originally going to be called The Last Man in Europe? A: 1984
Q: Which famous novel was based on the real-life exploits of Alexander Selkirk? A: Robinson Crusoe
Q: Which of Shakespeare's plays has a title which is also a proverb? A: All's Well That Ends Well
Q: What were the christian names of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde? A: Henry (Jekyll) and Edward (Hyde)
Q: What were the christian names of the three Bronte sisters? A: Anne, Charlotte and Emily
Q: Who had a hit in 1987 with the single Tonight, Tonight, Tonight? A: Genesis
Q: Fun Lovin' Criminals' hit Love Unlimited is a tribute to which singer? A: Barry White
Q: Richard Starkey is the real name of which famous musician? A: Ringo Starr
Q: What famous heavy metal band is named after a medieval torture device? A: Iron Maiden
Q: John Travolta and Olivia Newton John had UK number one hit singles in 1978 with which two songs? A: You're The One That I Want and Summer Nights
Q: Who was the lead singer of the 1960s Irish group, Them? A: Van Morrison
Q: What famous song from the film Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid won an Oscar for best song? A: Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head
Q: How many black keys are there on the a standard piano? A: 36
Q: Which band member is missing from the line-up of Ray Manzarek, Robby Krieger and John Densmore? A: Jim Morrison
Q: In the song The Twelve Days Of Christmas, what did my true love give to me on the 12th day? A: 12 Drummers Drumming
Q: Who wrote the Christmas story, The Snowman? A: Raymond Briggs
Q: What colour is Santa Claus' belt? A: Black
Q: In the TV show The Simpsons, who or what is Santa's Little Helper? A: The pet dog
Q: In Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol, how many different ghosts visited Scrooge? A: 4
Q: Which country traditionally provides Britain with a Christmas tree for Trafalgar Square in London? A: Norway
Q: Who were Balthazar, Melchior and Caspar? A: The Three Wise Men
Q: From the Christmas Carol Good King Wenceslas, where was Good King Wenceslas the King of? A: Bohemia
Q: In which famous Christmas Song is a snowman pretended to be Parsons Brown? A: Winter Wonderland
Q: In what year was the first Christmas card produced? A: 1843
Q: In which city in England is the National Railway Museum? A: York
Q: In folklore, who is the king of the elves and fairies? A: Oberon
Q: What is the most common colour that appears in the flags of the world? A: Red
Q: How many stars make up Orion's belt? A: 3
Q: What was left in Pandora's box after she released misery and evil? A: Hope
Q: How many pieces does each player have in backgammon? A: 15
Q: What cocktail consists of Tia Maria, Vodka and Coke? A: A black Russian
Q: What colour are the seats in the House of Lords? Red, Blue or Green? A: Red
Q: Which Roman God is one of the symbols of St Valentine's Day? A: Cupid
Q: What sign of the zodiac would you be if you were born on St. Valentine's Day? A: Aquarius
Q: When Marilyn Monroe died, who asked for a fresh rose to be placed on her grave, every week, forever? A: Joe Dimaggio
Q: In the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, what were the hitmen dressed as? A: Policemen
Q: Which Shakespearian character said Good morrow. 'Tis St. Valentine's Day? A: Ophelia
Q: Born in Italy in 1895, who was known as cinema's first great lover? A: Rudolph Valentino
Q: Containing the lines You're asking me will my love grow, I don't know, I don't know, which Beatles' song did Frank Sinatra describe as the greatest love song ever written? A: Something
Q: What was the challanging method of catching a fly asked of Daniel in the film The Karate Kid? A: Using chopsticks to do it
Q: Who, in 1984, won the BBC Sports Personality Of The Year Award, the only time it has been awarded to two people? A: Torvill and Dean
Q: How many babies did Janet Walton give birth to in November, 1983? A: 6
Q: Who played Lord Melchett in the TV comedy series Blackadder II? A: Stephen Fry
Q: Which band had a hit in the 1980s with the single Broken Wings? A: Mr. Mister
Q: Which actress starred in the 1980s films The Breakfast Club and Pretty In Pink and later turned down the Julia Roberts role in Pretty Woman? A: Molly Ringwald
Q: Actor Richard Kiel is best known for playing the same character in two different films. What is the name of this character? A: Jaws
Q: Which American author created the character Rip Van Winkle? A: Washington Irving
Q: Pebbles and Bam Bam was a spin-off of which TV series? A: The Flintstones
Q: In which Formula One team did Damon Hill replace Nigel Mansell? A: Williams
Q: In what year did the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbour? A: 1941
Q: What was the name of the character played by Harrison Ford in the films Clear And Present Danger and Patriot Games? A: Jack Ryan
Q: In which American state is there a town called Santa Claus, which receives over half a million letters and requests at Christmas time? A: Indiana
Q: In space it is impossible to cry? A: True
Q: Copyrightable is the longest word in the English language that can be written without repeating a letter? A: False
Q: Over 80,000 photographs are taken around the world every second? A: False
Q: What was the most recent film to win a best picture Oscar which was predominantly black and white? A: Schindler's List
Q: Which film was adapted from a Michael Ondaajte novel and went on to win 9 Oscars? A: The English Patient
Q: Which person was nominated for Oscars for acting, directing and writing for the 1981 film Reds? A: Warren Beatty
Q: Which 80 year old said well, good for me, after being told she was the oldest person to win an Oscar for acting? A: Jessica Tandy
Q: The 1971 TV movie Duel was one of the first pieces of work by which Oscar winning film director? A: Steven Spielberg
Q: What is currently the only sequel to have won a best picture Oscar? A: The Godfather : Part II
Q: What was the name of the 1998 Italian film which was nominated for a best picture Oscar? A: Life Is Beautiful
Q: What was the first animated film to be nominated for a best picture Oscar? A: Beauty and the Beast
Q: How many times has Bob Hope hosted the Oscars ceremony? A: 18
Q: After which famous person in history was the teddy bear named? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: What type of sweet did Mars and Murrie develop in 1941? A: M & Ms
Q: Which geographical location was the first word spoken on the moon? A: Houston
Q: In 1785, Blanchard and Jeffries became the first to cross the English channel using which method of transport? A: Balloon
Q: What historic event does the nursery rhyme Ring-a-ring of roses commemorate? A: The Great Plague
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister at the outbreak of the Second World War? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: In America, what became the 49th state to enter the union in 1959? A: Alaska
Q: In what year was the first English translation of the Bible completed? A: 1388
Q: What is Britain's largest lake? A: Loch Lomond
Q: In which city is Marco Polo airport? A: Venice
Q: What is the only American state with a name which has just one syllable? A: Maine
Q: What is the only county in England to have two separate coasts? A: Devon
Q: Behind Russia, what is the second largest country in Europe? A: Ukraine
Q: Which of the four main Balearic Islands is closest to Spain? A: Ibiza
Q: In which American state is Cape Canaveral, a launching site for space travel? A: Florida
Q: What is the largest country in Africa? A: Sudan
Q: If Alaska is the biggest state in America, what is second biggest? A: Texas
Q: I am so fragile that when you say my name you break me. What am I? A: Silence
Q: I can run, but I can't walk. I've got a mouth, but I can't talk. I have a head, but I never weep. I have a bed, but I never sleep. What am I? A: A river
Q: Mary's father has got four daughters. The first is called Ann, the second is called Anna and the third is called Annie. What is the name of the other daughter? A: Mary.
Q: A woman was pushing her car. When she stopped at a hotel, she realised she was bankrupt. Why? A: She was playing Monopoly
Q: I have keys, but no locks. I have space, but no room. You can enter, but you can't come in. What am I? A: A keyboard
Q: An aeroplane carrying 40 people crashed over the Atlantic Ocean, with every single person being killed. Yet two passengers survived. How is this possible? A: They were married.
Q: What is the fastest animal on 2 legs, which can reach a speed of around 40 miles per hour? A: Ostrich
Q: Who is better known as Topolino in Italy? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which stand-up comedian has the real name of Royston Vasey? A: Roy Chubby Brown
Q: In which series of action films does the character of John McClane appear? A: Die Hard
Q: According to the Bible on what day did God create the beasts of the Earth? A: 5th
Q: What cartoon characters are described as being three apples high? A: The Smurfs
Q: Which 1973 number one by Slade was later covered by Oasis? A: Cum On Feel The Noize
Q: Which band released the 1999 comeback single Maria? A: Blondie
Q: What was Cher's first UK solo number one hit single? A: The Shoop Shoop Song
Q: Which successful British pop group got their name from part of the title of a children's TV show and part of the title of a song by Roxy Music? A: Bananarama
Q: Which US three piece band is made up of Taylor, Isaac and Zac? A: Hanson
Q: How many UK top 40 hits did Prince have in the 1980s? A: 20
Q: What is the most popular sport to feature in films? A: Boxing
Q: Which famous video game character was originally called Jumpman? A: Mario
Q: What is the only ten letter word that can be typed on only the top row of a keyboard or typewriter? A: Typewriter
Q: According to the traditional rhyme, a child born on which day is said to be full of grace? A: Tuesday
Q: What were the stripes on the old-fashioned barber shop poles meant to represent? A: Blood
Q: In what year did Bugs Bunny make his debut? A: 1937
Q: The 1991 novel Scarlett by Alexandra Ripley was a sequel to which other novel? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: Which famous book by Herman Melville opens with the line Call Me Ishmael? A: Moby Dick
Q: By what name was Percy Blakeney better known in a novel by Baroness Orczy? A: The Scarlet Pimpernel
Q: What is the name given to the system for categorising library books? A: Dewey Decimal System
Q: Behind Shakespeare, who is the second most published author of all time? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Which Thomas Harris novel was the top selling adult fiction novel of the year 2000 in the UK? A: Hannibal
Q: Which company is responsible for Mates condoms? A: Virgin
Q: What name was given to Columbian goalkeeper Rene Higuita's spectacular clearance against England, when he dived under the ball and back-heeled it while airborne? A: The Scorpion
Q: Which pop group were formed in Sheffield in 1977 and took there name from a pair of detectives in the Adventures of Tin Tin? A: The Thompson Twins
Q: Fierce Creatures was the follow up to which successful comedy film? A: A Fish Called Wanda
Q: In Greek mythology, what creature had a mans head, trunk and arms, and a horse's body and legs? A: Centaur
Q: Hermit, spider and blue are all types of which creature? A: Crab
Q: In which film did Robert De Niro play boxer Jake La Motta? A: Raging Bull
Q: Who won the PFA Players Player of the Year award after his first Premiership season in 2001/02? A: Ruud Van Nistelroy
Q: Brian Deane scored the first ever Premiership goal for which team? A: Sheffield United
Q: Who was the top scorer in the first English Premiership in 1992/93, playing for both Nottingham Forest and Tottenham Hotspur? A: Teddy Sheringham
Q: After the 1994/95 Premiership season, which Tottenham Hotspur player became the first foreigner to win the footballer of the year award? A: Jurgen Klinsmann
Q: Which team won the first English Premiership in 1992/93? A: Manchester United
Q: Playing for Leeds United in August 1992, who became the first player to score a hat-trick in the Premiership? A: Eric Cantona
Q: Who were the first team to field an all foreign starting line up in the English Premiership? A: Chelsea
Q: As at the start of the 2002/03 season, who is the Premiership's all-time top scorer? A: Alan Shearer
Q: How many own goals were scored in the 2001/02 Premiership season? A: 24
Q: What is Homer's local bar called? A: Moe's Tavern
Q: What was Maggie Simpson's first word? A: Daddy
Q: Lisa's jazz-playing mentor was Bleeding Gums ...who? A: Murphy
Q: Who ran a store selling items for left-handed people called 'The Leftorium'? A: Ned Flanders
Q: What is the name of the shop run by Apu? A: Kwik E Mart
Q: What are the names of the twins in Bart's class at school? A: Sherri and Terri
Q: Who did Lisa have her first kiss with? A: Nelson
Q: Which character in The Simpsons is also known as Rainer Wolfcastle? A: McBain
Q: Michael Bond wrote about which famous bear in a series of books for children? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What was the name of author A. A. Milne's real-life son, who he used in his Winnie the Pooh books? A: Christopher Robin
Q: In the Harry Potter novels, what species of owl is Hedwig? A: Snowy Owl
Q: Roger Hargreaves created which characters in a series of books in the 1970s? A: The Mr. Men
Q: What is Charlie's surname in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory? A: Bucket
Q: Which children's book features Tweedledum and Tweedledee? A: Alice In Wonderland
Q: In what year was Mary Poppins written? A: 1934
Q: Which fruit has the scientific name of malus pumulia? A: The apple
Q: Which drink is sometimes referred to as Adam's ale? A: Water
Q: What is the most widely eaten meat in the world? A: Pork
Q: What type of sweets was American President Ronald Reagan known for having on his desk? A: Jelly-beans
Q: Which country would you associate with the dish Couscous? A: Tunisia
Q: In which country was ice cream invented? A: China
Q: You are running a race and overtake the person who is in third place. In which position are you now? A: Third.
Q: What is the first name of Hammerstein from the famous songwriting duo Rogers and Hammerstein? A: Oscar
Q: Which country's national symbol is a Lotus flower? A: India
Q: In which month is St Andrew's Day? A: November
Q: What was the name of the character played by Richard Wilson in One Foot In The Grave? A: Victor Meldrew
Q: What sport would you be playing if competing for the Harry Vardon trophy? A: Golf
Q: What name is given to a bet with four selections and comprising six doubles, four trebles and one four-fold? A: Yankee
Q: What is the capital of Peru? A: Lima
Q: What type of ball did Nolan Ryan once throw at a record speed of 100.9 miles per hour? A: Baseball
Q: How many hurdles must a runner jump over in the 110m men's hurdles race? A: 10
Q: In which sport is the position of goal attack found? A: Netball
Q: Which famous sportsman lit the torch at the opening ceremony of the 1996 Olympic Games? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: Which famous race takes place annually between Putney and Mortlake? A: The Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
Q: How is the sport of tauromachy better known? A: Bull Fighting
Q: How many kilometres long is the walk - the longest race in men's athletics? A: 50
Q: Which three footballers won the BBC Sports Personality Of The Year Award in the 20th century? A: Bobby Moore, Paul Gasgoine and Michael Owen
Q: What is Sir Donald Bradman's test cricket batting average? A: 99.94
Q: As at the start of 2003, what is the make and model of the bestselling car of all time? A: Toyota Corolla
Q: The prancing horse is the symbol of which racing car? A: Ferrari
Q: Who designed the first modern petrol-driven internal combustion engine for the car? A: Gottlieb Daimler
Q: What make of car featured in the film Back To The Future? A: De Lorean
Q: In which country was the first Audi made? A: Germany
Q: Behind U.S.A. which country has the second longest road network in the world? A: India
Q: According to the Highway Code, passengers of what age and above are responsible for themselves wearing a seatbelt? A: 14
Q: What was the name of the Volkswagen Beetle which made it's first appearance in The Love Bug? A: Herbie
Q: In which year did Czechoslovakia become the first country to make seat belts compulsory? A: 1969
Q: Which African country has the highest population? A: Nigeria
Q: As in the famous song Girl From Ipanema, in which country is Ipanema? A: Brazil
Q: What is name of the strait that divides New Zealand into Northern and Southern parts? A: Cook Strait
Q: In which Indian city would you find the Taj Mahal? A: Agra
Q: Which country has the longest coastline in the world? A: Canada
Q: In which year did California become one of the United States of America? A: 1850
Q: What were the first names of the three Bronte sisters? A: Anne, Charlotte and Emily
Q: Ti Amo means I Love You in which language? A: Italian
Q: Which Elvis Presley film has the word love in the title and is the only one in which his character dies? A: Love Me Tender
Q: Who discovered penicillin on Valentine's Day in 1929? A: Sir Alexander Fleming
Q: What was the name of the car in the film The Love Bug? A: Herbie
Q: Which brothers' last film was called Love Happy? A: Marx Brothers
Q: Which film starring Bill Murray includes the line Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm a schizophrenic and so am I? A: What About Bob
Q: In which year did Charles, Duke of Orleans, send the first known Valentine's card? A: 1415
Q: What was Alfred Hitchcock's first colour movie? A: Rope
Q: What colour is the cross on the flag of Switzerland? A: White
Q: In which children's TV show could you have seen the character of Windy Miller? A: Camberwick Green
Q: In which 1996 film does Eddie Murphy play characters including Sherman Klump and Buddy Love? A: The Nutty Professor
Q: Yperite, first used by the German army in September 1917, is better known as what type of gas? A: Mustard Gas
Q: In 2000, who bared all at the Gielgud Theatre replacing Kathleen Turner in the role of Mrs Robinson in the play The Graduate? A: Jerry Hall
Q: What is the most common name for a pub in Britain? A: The Red Lion
Q: In Star Trek, what colour is Mr. Spock's blood? A: Green
Q: How many different ways are there to make change of a dollar? 111, 293 or 487? A: 293
Q: Which 1997 film starring Jack Nicholson is known in China as Mr. Cat Poop? A: As Good As It Gets
Q: As at March 2003, who were the last football team to win the FA Cup final wearing stripes? A: Coventry City
Q: How many teaspoons are there in a cup? A: 48
Q: What are the main four blood groups? A: A, B, AB and O
Q: The average person grows how many inches of hair each year? 6, 10 or 15? A: 6 inches
Q: In degrees centigrade, what is the normal body temperature? A: 37
Q: The condition of seasonal allergic rhinitis is better known by what name? A: Hayfever
Q: By what name is the trachea more commonly known? A: Wind-pipe
Q: What are the names given to the pits in the skin from which hairs grow out of? A: Follicles
Q: Where in the body would you find the cochlea and the stirrup? A: Ear
Q: How many bones are there in a normal human hand? A: 27
Q: Which 1959 film won 11 Oscars? A: Ben Hur
Q: Which actor won the 1995 Best Supporting Actor Oscar and the 1999 Best Actor Oscar, currently the only two times he has been nominated? A: Kevin Spacey
Q: Who won a Best Supporting Actress Award in 1998 for a performance of less than 8 minutes of screen time? A: Judi Dench
Q: As at 2003, how many women have won a Best Director Oscar? A: None
Q: In what year was the best foreign film category introduced to the Academy Awards? A: 1948
Q: What was the name of author A. A. Milne's son, the name of whom he used in his Winnie The Pooh books? A: Christopher Robin
Q: What is the profession of a leprechaun? A: Cobbler
Q: Lanzarote and Tenerife are part of which group of islands? A: Canary Islands
Q: What colour is Sonic the Hedgehog? A: Blue
Q: Walter Fredrick Morrison sold the rights to his Pluto Platter in 1955, but under what name did this toy become popular? A: Frisbee
Q: In the game of Cluedo, which of the rooms would come last alphabetically? A: Study
Q: What item of food inspired the idea for the computer game pac man? A: Pizza
Q: What is Barbie's boyfriend's first name? A: Ken
Q: How many points would the word Scrabble score in the game of Scrabble? A: 14
Q: Which company who make toy cars and other models won the first toy of the year award in 1965 for a model Aston Martin from the first James Bond film? A: Corgi
Q: What was the name of the Japanese virtual pets that became very popular throughout the world in 1997? A: Tamagotchi
Q: Nicknamed the Black Panther, who was the top scorer in the 1966 World Cup finals? A: Eusebio
Q: Which Dutch footballer scored 90 goals in 135 games for A. C. Milan in the late 1980s and early 1990s? A: Marco Van Basten
Q: Who scored the last ever goal in an FA Cup semi-final replay? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: Who won the 1974 World Cup as a player and the 1990 World Cup as a coach? A: Franz Beckenbauer
Q: In all of the English and Scottish leagues, which team's name would come first alphabetically? A: Aberdeen
Q: In which year were red and yellow cards first used in the English leagues? A: 1976
Q: Which Oscar winning actress is an anagram of Bringing Dream? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: Who was the first person pictured on a British postage stamp? A: Queen Victoria
Q: In 1980, who became the first British solo female artist to have a UK number one album? A: Kate Bush
Q: Who was Britain's first million pound footballer? A: Trevor Francis
Q: In Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, what was the name of the little people who worked for Willy Wonka and loved to sing? A: Oompa Loompas
Q: What is the only bird that can swim but not fly? A: Penguin
Q: In which year was actor Sean Connery born? A: 1930
Q: Who has appeared in more Alfred Hitchock films than any one else? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: Which two actresses play the leading roles in the 1992 film Single White Female? A: Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh
Q: Loves Rental Styles is an anagram of which famous actor? A: Sylvester Stallone
Q: In 1999, in the British Film Industry's list of best British films ever, what was the only film in the top ten to be made in the 1990s? A: Trainspotting
Q: According to the title of a 1983 film directed by Brian De Palma, by what name was Antonio Montana better known? A: Scarface
Q: In which city did gangster Al Capone operate? A: Chicago
Q: Who had a number one hit in 1974 called Billy Don't Be A Hero? A: Paper Lace
Q: In 2003, the American Film Institute compiled a list of the top 50 movie villains - which character from a 1991 film was voted number one? A: Hannibal Lecter
Q: Which fictional hero, created by Baroness Orczy, takes his name from the small red flower with which he signs his messages? A: The Scarlet Pimpernel
Q: Who played the villain Hans Gruber in the film Die Hard? A: Alan Rickman
Q: Which superhero takes pictures of himself in action and sells them to the Daily Bugle? A: Spiderman
Q: By what name was the serial killer Albert DeSalvo, who killed 13 women between 1962 and 1964, better known? A: The Boston Strangler
Q: In American Film Institute's list of the top 50 movie heroes, the number one hero, Atticus Finch, was from which film? A: To Kill A Mockingbird
Q: Which group had a top ten hit in 2000 called Cartoon Heroes? A: Aqua
Q: In which year did Superman appear in comics for the first time? A: 1938
Q: Which West Midlands comedian was born Chris Collins in 1957 and sang on a number one hit single in 1996? A: Frank Skinner
Q: Which British playwright wrote Educating Rita, Blood Brothers and Shirley Valentine? A: Willy Russell
Q: Who featured on Melanie C's number one single Never Be The Same Again in 2000, and died in a car accident in 2002? A: Lisa Left Eye Lopes
Q: Who had a top ten hit in 1974 with Streets Of London? A: Ralph McTell
Q: Which author wrote Patriot Games, Clear And Present Danger and The Hunt For Red October? A: Tom Clancy
Q: Which song includes the lyrics I laughed at all of your jokes, my love you didn't need to coax? A: Maggie May by Rod Stewart
Q: What is the name of the Dutch speaking northern region of Belgium containing approximately half of the country's population? A: Flanders
Q: What is the only country which is crossed by both the equator and the tropic of capricorn? A: Brazil
Q: Which British city has an underground railway system which is nicknamed The Clockwork Orange? A: Glasgow
Q: In which country would you find the original Legoland? A: Denmark
Q: What is the only American state which starts with the letter A but doesn't end with the letter A? A: Arkansas
Q: As at the start of the 2003/04 season, how many winners of the English Premiership have there been? A: 3
Q: In which county is Lord's cricket ground? A: Middlesex
Q: In the English and Scottish football leagues, which team has the longest name? A: Inverness Caledonian Thistle
Q: What was the first Australian city to host the Olympic games? A: Melbourne
Q: On a darts board, which number is directly opposite 1? A: 19
Q: In cricket, how many runs is a double nelson? A: 222
Q: In centimetres, how high is a table tennis table? A: 76
Q: By what name was scultpor and painter Domenikos Theotocopoulos better known? A: El Greco
Q: The book The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie caused controversy after it was claimed it was blasphemous against which religion? A: Islam
Q: Which painter, along with Georges Braque, founded the style cubism in the early 20th century? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What relation is author Kingsley Amis to author Martin Amis? A: Father
Q: What was Michelangelo's first name? A: Michelangelo
Q: Which author, who is most remembered for writing another series of books, wrote the children's story Chitty Chitty Bang Bang? A: Ian Fleming
Q: In which year was Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte first published? A: 1847
Q: On arriving in New York, which writer famously said... I have nothing to declare but my genius? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which astonaut said the famous line... One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind? A: Neil Armstrong
Q: Which actor/director said in 1989... I don't go around saying: Hello, did you know I'm the new Olivier? A: Kenneth Branagh
Q: Which politician first said... A week is a long time in politics? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which Shakespearian character said... A horse, a horse. My kingdom for a horse? A: Richard III
Q: Which actress said... When I'm good I'm very good, but when I'm bad I'm better? A: Mae West
Q: Which animated TV character once said... I'm not normally a religious man, but if you're up there, save me, Superman? A: Homer Simpson
Q: With which comic would you associate Beryl the Peril and Korky the Cat? A: The Dandy
Q: How many seconds delay are there between each of Big Ben's strikes? 1, 3 or 5? A: 5
Q: In a standard pack of playing cards what do the queens hold in their hands? A: Flowers
Q: What was Muhammed Ali's name before he changed it? A: Cassius Clay
Q: What was the title of the Beatles' first single? A: Love Me Do
Q: Which football team won the F. A. Cup in 1988 as Dave Beasant became the first goalkeeper to save an F. A. Cup final penalty? A: Wimbledon
Q: Which song gave Windsor Davies and Don Estelle a number one hit in 1975? A: Whispering Grass
Q: Which two-letter word can go after tan and con to produce two new words? A: Go
Q: The Italian word for scratched drawings is used commonly in English. What is it? A: Graffiti
Q: Which four letter word can go before beat or fall or after come or melt to produce four new words? A: Down
Q: What are the first three words in the Bible? A: In The Beginning
Q: How many points would you get for the word Scrabble in a game of Scrabble? A: 14
Q: What is the second most common word in written English behind the? A: Of
Q: Which town had a clock which always told the time never too quickly, never too slowly? A: Trumpton
Q: What is the largest state in America? A: Alaska
Q: What part of the body is also the name of a punctuation mark? A: Colon
Q: In the world of politics, what was broadcast live on British television for the first time on 20th March 1990? A: The Budget
Q: In 1796 Edward Jenner discovered a vacination for what? A: Smallpox
Q: What is graphology the study of? A: Handwriting
Q: Who provided the voice of the princess in the film 'Shrek'? A: Cameron Diaz
Q: Which sea has shores in Europe, Asia and Africa? A: Mediterranean
Q: In which year did Karl Marx publish the first volume of Das Kapital? A: 1867
Q: What is the Latin name for the constellation that is commonly known as the Great Bear? A: Ursa Major
Q: What is the world's most southerly capital? A: Wellington
Q: Which actor did Jennifer Anniston marry in July 2000? A: Brad Pitt
Q: Which English Cathedral has the highest spire? A: Salisbury
Q: Which 1999 film featured a trio of main characters called Heather, Josh and Michael? A: The Blair Witch Project
Q: Created by Tim Smit in Cornwall, what is the name of the ecological botanical gardens sometimes dubbed the eighth wonder of the world? A: The Eden Project
Q: Who is the only artist to have a top 40 hit with 'Mustang Sally' in the UK when it reached number 28 in 1966? A: Wilson Pickett
Q: What was Manchester United football club's original name? A: Newton Heath
Q: Who played the title role in the television series 'Dr. Kildare'? A: Richard Chamberlain
Q: Which company manufactured Love Hearts - packets of small round sweets each of which had a short message on? A: Swizzel
Q: Approximately what percentage of Valentine's cards are bought by women? 50%, 70% or 85%? A: 85%
Q: In which TV sitcom is one of the characters said to have proposed to another on Valentine's Day by putting the message Lee love Dawn, marriage? in their local paper? A: The Office
Q: The word love as used in the scoring of tennis is thought to have originated from the French word for what type of food? A: Egg
Q: In 'Friends', which character left home at an early age after her mother committed suicide? A: Phoebe
Q: Who was the first female presenter of 'Grandstand'? A: Helen Rollason
Q: Which children's TV show featured a rag doll called Madeleine, a toad called Gabriel, a group of mice and a woodpecker called Professor Yaffle? A: Bagpuss
Q: Who played Hutch in the TV series 'Starsky and Hutch'? A: David Soul
Q: What is the colour of the cross on the flag of Greece? A: White
Q: Originally made in a drugstore in Waco, Texas and still enjoyed today, what is America's oldest soft drink? A: Dr. Pepper
Q: Which word can go after 'mid', 'fort' and 'over' to produce three new words? A: Night
Q: In the 1990 film 'The Hunt For Red October', who or what is Red October? A: Submarine
Q: Which murder weapon in the game of Cluedo starts and ends with the same letter? A: Revolver
Q: Where in London would you find the Grave of the Unknown Warrior? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: What is the full title of the first Austin Powers film? A: Austin Powers: International Man Of Mystery
Q: At what game was a former world champion famously defeated by a computer called Deep Blue in 1997? A: Chess
Q: In 1987, which golfer became the first British winner of the US Masters? A: Sandy Lyle
Q: What was the first name of the first person to be voted out of the first series of Big Brother in the UK? A: Sada
Q: As at March 2004, who is the only actor to win an Oscar for best actor in a leading role for a performance in a foreign language film? A: Roberto Benigni
Q: Which football team lost the F.A. Cup final in both 1998 and 1999? A: Newcastle United
Q: Which TV actor had a number one hit single in 1986 with 'Every Loser Wins'? A: Nick Berry
Q: In April 2003, who became the oldest man to be rated number one in the World Tennis Association rankings at the age of 33? A: Andre Agassi
Q: In what year did the first Rugby World Cup take place? A: 1987
Q: What sport was the subject of the film 'National Velvet'? A: Horse Racing
Q: At which distance did Sally Gunnell win her gold medal for hurdling at the 1992 Olympics? A: 400 metres
Q: Which sport was author Bill Bryson talking about when said It is the only sport in which spectators burn as many calories as players -- more if they are moderately restless? A: Cricket
Q: What is the name given to a shot in snooker where the cue ball hits a red ball which hits another red ball to make it go into a pocket? A: Plant
Q: What was the attendance at the 2002 World Cup Final? A: 69,029
Q: Who played the title roles in the 1986 film The Three Amigos? A: Chevy Chase, Steve Martin, Martin Short
Q: Which soap opera is set in the fictional county of Borsetshire? A: The Archers
Q: Which pop star played Beth in Neighbours between 1991 and 1993? A: Natalie Imbruglia
Q: As at 2004, which actor is the only member of the original Coronation Street cast who is still in the show? A: William Roache
Q: What is the name of the fictional tube station in Eastenders? A: Walford East
Q: In Brookside, which character murdered her father and buried him under the patio and was also involved in the first lesbian kiss in a UK soap opera? A: Beth Jordache
Q: First shown on the station's launch night, what is Channel 5's first original soap opera called? A: Family Affairs
Q: In which year did Emmerdale Farm become Emmerdale? 1989, 1992 or 1995? A: 1989
Q: At the first British Soap Awards in 1999, which Eastenders actress won the sexiest female award? A: Tamzin Outhwaite
Q: Which actress played Arwen in the trilogy of films? A: Liv Tyler
Q: At which English university was J. R. R. Tolkein a professor when he wrote The Lord Of The Rings? A: Oxford
Q: How many Black Riders are there? 3, 7, 5 or 9? A: 9
Q: What was the name of Gollum before he committed murder to obtain the ring? A: Smeagol
Q: What is Frodo's second name? A: Baggins
Q: Who played Saruman in Peter Jackson's Lord Of The Rings films? A: Christopher Lee
Q: In which year did J. R. R. Tolkein die? A: 1973
Q: Which of The Simpsons can play the saxophone? A: Lisa
Q: Which famous singer and actress would you associate with the perfume Glow? A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: In which American city was John Lennon shot? A: New York City
Q: Who did Bill Clinton famously admit to having an affair with during his time as President of the USA? A: Monica Lewinsky
Q: In what year were the first modern Olympic Games held? A: 1896
Q: In what year did Steve Redgrave win his first gold medal at the Olympics? A: 1984
Q: In which American state were the 1996 Olympic Games held? A: Georgia
Q: How long is an Olympic sized swimming pool? A: 50 metres
Q: If you had a beard you would not be allowed to compete in the Olympics at what sport? A: Boxing
Q: In which city would you find the two English league grounds which are closest to each other? A: Nottingham
Q: Which English football team are nicknamed the Tractor Boys? A: Ipswich Town
Q: Which European football team play there home matches at the Delle Alpi? A: Juventus
Q: In which year was the Charity Shield first contested? A: 1909
Q: Which gift is traditionally given on a 15th wedding anniversary? China, Crystal or Tin? A: Crystal
Q: In which 1980s American TV show are the two main characters called Christine and Mary Beth? A: Cagney And Lacey
Q: Cable-stayed, Pontoon and Suspension are all types of what? A: Bridges
Q: As at September 2004, which footballer is the all time top scorer in the English Premiership who doesn't normally play as a striker? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: What is the capital of Tenerife and is also the name of a city in California? A: Santa Cruz
Q: Which band released the album Second Coming in 1994, five years after their debut album? A: The Stone Roses
Q: Which TV personality announced he was gay in 1995 and split from his wife Cheryl? A: Michael Barrymore
Q: Which animal's name means river horse? A: Hippopotamous
Q: In The Simpsons, what type of animal is Santa's Little Helper? A: Dog
Q: Other than humans, what are the only animals that have sex for pleasure? A: Dolphins
Q: Which animal is the national emblem of India? The Tiger, The Elephant or The Snake? A: The Tiger
Q: How many humps does a Bactrian camel have? A: 2
Q: Who presented the childrens TV show Animal Magic from 1962 to 1983? A: Johnny Morris
Q: What type of animal is Shere Khan in The Jungle Book? A: Tiger
Q: Considered as the oldest zoo in the world, in what year did the Vienna Zoo first open to visitors? A: 1752
Q: Which alcoholic drink would you need to make the cocktail Tom Collins? Vodka, Whiskey or Gin? A: Gin
Q: From which country does the dish paella originate? A: Spain
Q: Which company makes the chocolate sweets Smarties? A: Nestle
Q: What is the most popular fruit in the world? A: The tomato
Q: What type of food is John Montagu credited with inventing in 1765, who said that he liked this food because be could continue to gamble at the same time as eating it? A: Sandwich
Q: How is the chemical compound Polyvinyl Chloride better known? A: PVC
Q: Which three elements make up carbohydrates? A: Carbon, Hydrogen and Oxygen
Q: Which famous scientist was born in Germany in 1879, became a Swiss citizen in 1901 and later became a US citizen in 1940? A: Albert Einstein
Q: Who discovered the law of gravity? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: In which year was the microscope invented? A: 1931
Q: What are the next four words in the first line of the popular rhyme which starts Remember, remember the fifth of November? A: Gunpowder, Treason and Plot
Q: Who had a hit single in 1989 with We Didn't Start The Fire? A: Billy Joel
Q: How many barrels of gunpowder were discovered in the cellars of Westminster Hall as part of Guy Fawkes' gunpowder plot? 36, 96 or 266? A: 36
Q: Which TV series featured Brett Butler playing the main character called Grace Kelly? A: Grace Under Fire
Q: In what year did the Gunpowder Plot take place? A: 1605
Q: What was Guy Fawkes real first name? Guido, Gundry or John? A: Guido
Q: In 2002, which position was Guy Fawkes voted into in BBC's 100 Greatest Britons poll? A: 30th
Q: What was the name of the 1995 film starring Sandra Bullock as a computer expert whose identity is erased? A: The Net
Q: Where in the body would you find the metacarpus? A: The Hand
Q: Gary Lightbody from Northern Ireland is the lead singer with which band? A: Snow Patrol
Q: What does the name of the terrorist group Al-Qaida translate as in English? The Base, The Book or The Beads? A: The Base
Q: Who was the leader of the Labour party from 1980 to 1983? A: Michael Foot
Q: Who played Harry in When Harry Met Sally? A: Billy Crystal
Q: As in the dish Chilli Con Carne, what is the translation of the word Carne? Sauce, Rice or Meat? A: Meat
Q: What was Kenny Rogers first solo number one single in the UK? A: Lucille
Q: In The Twelve Days Of Christmas, how many ladies dancing were there? A: 9
Q: Who had a minor hit in 1986 with the song Santa Claus Is On The Dole? A: Spitting Image
Q: Which one of the following singles was not a Christmas number one? Lonely This Christmas by Mud, Last Christmas by Wham or Merry Christmas Everyone by Shakin Stevens? A: Last Christmas by Wham
Q: Who famously sang Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas in the film Meet Me In St Louis? A: Judy Garland
Q: When you first took my hand on a cold christmas eve you promised me Broadway was waiting for me is a lyric from which Christmas song? A: Fairytale Of New York
Q: For which 1990 invention was Tim Berners-Lee awarded the first Millenium Technology Prize in April 2004? A: The World Wide Web
Q: Which controversial documentary film won the Palme D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2004? A: Fahrenheit 9/11
Q: In March 2004, Piers Morgan resigned as the editor of which newspaper after publishing fake photographs of Iraqi prisoners being abused? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Who are the famous mother and father of Apple Blythe Alison Martin who was born in May 2004? A: Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of England? A: St George
Q: Which group had a number one hit in 2003 called Where Is The Love? A: Black Eyed Peas
Q: Melbourne is the capital of which Australian state? A: Victoria
Q: In which 1999 film do George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg and Ice Cube star as U.S. soldiers in Iraq at the end of the Gulf War? A: Three Kings
Q: Bill Clinton admitted he had a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky after a stain was found on what type of clothing that belonged to her? A: Dress
Q: Which English King declared first declared Valentine's Day an official holiday in 1537? A: Henry VIII
Q: Who played Shakespeare in the Oscar winning film Shakespeare In Love? A: Joseph Fiennes
Q: On what day of the week was Valentines Day in the year 2000? A: Monday
Q: With which sport would you associate Davis Love III? A: Golf
Q: Who had a hit with the song Paper Roses in 1973? A: Marie Osmond
Q: Which famous explorer was murdered by natives of Hawaii on Valentine's Day in 1779? A: James Cook
Q: Which 1997 film was a character called Rose played by two different actresses, both of whom received Oscar nominations for their parts? A: Titanic
Q: What is the name of the hit show based on the songs of Abba? A: Mama Mia
Q: Which G is the name of the Italian astronomer who improved the telescope so much as to discover that there were craters on the moon? A: Galileo
Q: For which series of films were the actors Kenneth Williams and Sid James best known? A: Carry On ...
Q: Which alternative word for the Devil is a Hebrew word with translates as Lord Of The Flies? A: Beelzebub
Q: On which TV island might you have found actor Ricardo Montalban? A: Fantasy
Q: Mozart's opera, which was a continuation of The Barber Of Seville, was called The Marriage Of ... who? A: Figaro
Q: What is the nearest planet to the Sun? A: Mercury
Q: What is the name of the dopey road sweeper player by Roger Lloyd-Pack in Only Fools And Horses? A: Trigger
Q: In which sport do the rules specify that the ball used must not weigh less than 45.93 grams and must have a diameter of at least 42.67 millimetres? A: Golf
Q: Which came first - Rugby League or Rugby Union? A: Rugby Union
Q: Which is the heaviest? An Ice Hockey Puck or a Baseball? A: An Ice Hockey Puck
Q: What oriental game comprises 144 tiles? A: Mah-jong
Q: What comes next in the following sequence... Red, Blue, White, Black, Orange, __? A: Black and White
Q: In which year was the penalty kick first introduced into the game of football? A: 1891
Q: Who did Sue Barker replace as host of the BBC quiz show A Question Of Sport? A: David Coleman
Q: In 1999, what film became Tom Hanks first sequel? A: Toy Story 2
Q: What was the name of the robot dog that became a regular companion for Doctor Who? A: K-9
Q: Which former Blue Peter presenter was involved in the first National Lottery TV draw in November 1994? A: Anthea Turner
Q: Who played The Joker in the 1989 film Batman? A: Jack Nicholson
Q: Who were the three stars of the TV show The Goodies? A: Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie
Q: Who were the original presenters on Channel 4's Big Breakfast? A: Chris Evans and Gaby Roslin
Q: In which Bond film does Britt Ekland play the character of Mary Goodnight? A: The Man With The Golden Gun
Q: Which actress divorced Dennis Quaid in 2001 after she had an affair with Russell Crowe? A: Meg Ryan
Q: In Channel 4's 1999 poll to find the 100 Greatest Movie Stars, in what position was Michael Caine? A: 44
Q: True or False: St. Patrick was born in Ireland? A: False
Q: Which Irish writer is the only person to have won both a nobel prize and an academy award? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Which Irishman has won the Eurovision song contest twice as a singer and once as a composer? A: Johnny Logan
Q: What is the English translation of Ireland's national anthem Amhrn na bhFiann? A: A Soldier's Song
Q: Which Irish born explorer is best remembered for his Anatarctic expedition from 1914 to 1916 in the ship Endurance? A: Ernest Shackleton
Q: Who became the first Irish woman to set a world record in a track event when she recorded a record time in the 5,000 metres in 1991? A: Sonia O'Sullivan
Q: How many calories are in a pint of Guinness? A: 198
Q: Who resides at Clarence House? A: Prince Charles
Q: Which British monarch reigned for longer than any other? A: Queen Victoria
Q: In which year was Prince William born? A: 1982
Q: As at April 2004, how many different Prime Ministers has the Queen given audience to? A: 10
Q: What is the official title of Camilla now that she has married Prince Charles? A: Duchess of Cornwall
Q: Who was King during World War I? A: George V
Q: What is the Queens official residence in Scotland? A: The Palace Of Holyrood House
Q: At the time of her golden jubilee, how many ships had the Queen launched? A: 17
Q: On what date does St George's Day fall? A: April 23rd
Q: Which George directed the 2002 film Confessions Of A Dangerous Mind? A: George Clooney
Q: In 2002, who was the highest placed 'George' in the BBC poll of 100 Greatest Britons? A: Boy George
Q: Which George is the author with the real name of Eric Arthur Blair? A: George Orwell
Q: What was George's surname in George And Mildred? A: Roper
Q: What type of animal was George in the children's TV show Rainbow? A: Hippo
Q: Which George had top ten hits in the 1980s with Give Me The Night and In Your Eyes? A: George Benson
Q: Who played the title role in 1997 film George Of The Jungle? A: Brendan Fraser
Q: Which King created the George Cross medal? George III, George V or George VI? A: George VI
Q: What is a more common name for the Aurora Borealis? A: The Northern Lights
Q: In September 2003, Fathers 4 Justice campaigner Jason Hatch caused an embarrassing security breach at Buckingham Palace dressed as who? A: Batman
Q: Which English city stands on the river Nene? A: Peterborough
Q: What were the christian names of the Blues Brothers? A: Jake and Elwood
Q: What is the official residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury? A: Lambeth Palace
Q: Who painted The Laughing Cavalier? A: Frans Hals
Q: What is the name of Derek Trotter's local? A: The Nag's Head
Q: What are Dominican Monks also known as? Blackfriars, Greyfriars or Whitefriars? A: Blackfriars
Q: Which motorcycle company makes the Road King FLHR? A: Harley-Davidson
Q: What colour are the vertical stripes of the Italian Flag? A: Green, White and Red
Q: In which year did Wimpey open the first burger res'Come out to play'? A: Archers
Q: According his famous poem, what had John Milton lost? A: Paradise
Q: Which Disney annimation saw a young King Arthur enjoying his encounter with Merlin? A: Sword In The Stone
Q: What sign did God give to Noah to show that the Earth would not be flooded again? A: A Rainbow
Q: What is the name of the statue by Antony Gormley that stands near the A1 motorway in Gateshead? A: The Angel Of The North
Q: Which of Batman's villains did Burgess Meridith play in the sixties TV series? A: The Penguin
Q: Which singer was born in London with the name Steven Georgiou and is now called Yusuf Islam? A: Cat Stevens
Q: Who is the last British player to win the women's singles title at Wimbledon? A: Virginia Wade
Q: Which British player reached the fourth round of the mens singles in 1992 and 1994? A: Jeremy Bates
Q: What are the two traditional colours of Wimbledon? A: Green and Purple
Q: Who won the men's singles title at Wimbledon in 2001, 11 years after he first competed in the tournament? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: What is the number of the court at Wimbledon which is nicknamed The Graveyard Of Champions due to a large number or seeded players being beaten on it by lower ranked players? A: Number 2
Q: How many times did Boris Becker win the Men's Singles title at Wimbledon? A: Three
Q: In what year was the Mixed Doubles first contested in Wimbledon? A: 1913
Q: What mythical creature has the head and wings of an eagle and the body of a lion? A: Griffin
Q: In cricket when a ball is hit for four, what is the line the ball crosses over called? A: Boundary
Q: Which famous song, sung at the Last Night of the Proms begins with the line When Britain first at Heav'n's command? A: Rule Britannia
Q: What UK bank holiday is celebrated 2 days after Good Friday? A: Easter Sunday
Q: What's the collective name for a group of lions? A: Pride
Q: From what London building in 1936 were the first BBC TV broadcasts made? A: Alexandra Palace
Q: Which four American Presidents have their faces scultped on Mount Rushmore? A: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln
Q: In four colour process printing, which is also known as CMYK, which are the only four colours that are used? A: Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black
Q: What are the first four books of the Bible? A: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers
Q: Which four American states begin with the letter I? A: Idaho, Illinois, Indiana and Iowa
Q: In which film did Rex Harrison appear alongside a two-headed llama? A: Doctor Doolittle
Q: Which character has been played on TV by Phil Silvers and on film by Steve Martin? A: Sergeant Bilko
Q: Mary Nichols and Anne Chapman were two of the six victims of who? A: Jack The Ripper
Q: Who played the chef Gareth Blackstock in the sitcom "Chef"? A: Lenny Henry
Q: Who painted the Flatford Mill? A: John Constable
Q: Which toy was originally called the Pluto Platter when it was first sold in 1955? A: Frisbee
Q: Which of the Teletubbies has a triangular antenna on their head? A: Tinky Winky
Q: On a standard keyboard, which is the largest key? A: Space Bar
Q: In which English county would you find a town called Westard Ho!, the only English town to contain an exclamation mark in its name? A: Devon
Q: In 1968, the first inter-racial kiss on American TV took place in which long running series? A: Star Trek
Q: What are the two colours of Dennis The Menace's jumper? A: Red and Black
Q: In The Wizard Of Oz, what was the Tin Man looking for? A: A Heart
Q: Which African American civil rights activist was assassinated in 1968 by escaped convict James Earl Ray? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Which George Orwell novel features a character called Napoleon? A: Animal Farm
Q: Which 1997 British film had the working title of Eggs, Beans and Chippendales? A: The Full Monty
Q: Lord David Sutch, who committed suicide in 1999, was famous for founding what in 1983? A: The Monster Raving Loony Party
Q: Which colour features in the title of number one hits by Tom Jones and Shakin Stevens? A: Green
Q: In a greyhound race, what colour does the greyhound in trap 3 wear? A: White
Q: In which capital city did the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand trigger World War I? A: Sarajevo
Q: Nairobi is the capital of which African country? A: Kenya
Q: Which capital city has a name meaning "I see the mountain" and which country is it the capital of? A: Montevideo, Uruguay
Q: What is the capital of Vietnam? Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City or Phnom Penh? A: Hanoi
Q: What is the capital city of Canada? A: Ottawa
Q: Bon Scott was the lead singer for which famous rock band? A: AC/DC
Q: Who was the first Beatle to get married? A: John Lennon
Q: Which word appears in the title of a Police hit in 1981, a Queen hit in 1986 and a Take That hit in 1992? A: Magic
Q: What was Madonna's first UK number one single? A: Into The Groove
Q: How many sisters are in the group Sister Sledge? A: 4
Q: Which footballer won the Golden Boot for scoring the most goals at 1986 World Cup Finals? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Which snooker player is nicknamed the Rocket? A: Ronnie O Sullivan
Q: The field of play for which sport is often called a grid-iron? A: American Football
Q: At which event has Steve Backley won Olympic Bronze and Silver medals? A: Javelin
Q: The Solheim cup is the women's equivalent of which famous sporting cup? A: The Ryder Cup
Q: Who did Alex Ferguson succeed as manager of Manchester united? A: Ron Atkinson
Q: What was the attendance at the 2003 Rugby World Cup final when England beat Australia? A: 82,957
Q: Which University in the UK has the largest number of students? A: The Open University
Q: Which childrens novel by Raymond Briggs has a main character whose job it is to scare people? A: Fungus The Bogeyman
Q: What is the colour of the flag of Libya, which is the only national flag consisting of only one colour? A: Green
Q: Which patron saint's day is observed on November 30th? A: St Andrew's
Q: What is Fleetwood Mac's only UK number one single? A: Albatross
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Fe? A: Iron
Q: The actor Johnny Depp had a tattoo on his arm surgically altered after the break up of his relationship with which actress? A: Winona Ryder
Q: What is the capital city of China? A: Beijing
Q: Which famous tourist attraction can be viewed from the 'Maid Of The Mist'? A: Niagra Falls
Q: Which London railway station has the most platforms? A: Waterloo
Q: What colour is the leftmost stripe on the French flag? A: Blue
Q: In which district of London would you find Harrods department store? A: Knightsbridge
Q: In kilometres, how long is the coastline of Brazil? A: 7,491 km
Q: In the song The Twelve Days Of Christmas, how many ladies dancing are given as gifts in total? A: 36
Q: Who was the first monarch in Britain to make a Christmas Day broadcast? A: King George V
Q: On what date does Saint Nicholas' Day fall? December 6th, December 16th or December 26th? A: December 6th
Q: Which Christmas number one includes the line All I wish that everyday was christmas, what a nice way to spend the year? A: Merry Christmas Everyone
Q: What 'D' is the name of Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer's dad? A: Donner
Q: Which 2004 film sees Tom Hanks take a boy on a trip to the North Pole to visit Santa Claus? A: The Polar Express
Q: Which Generation Game presenter was famous for his catchphrase Shut That Door? A: Larry Grayson
Q: During which TV game show were the contestants invited to go wild in the aisles? A: Supermarket Sweep
Q: Who hosted the BBC gameshow Going For Gold which featured contestants from various European countries? A: Henry Kelly
Q: Of all the gameshows that were revived for a series of one-off specials in Ant And Dec's Gameshow Marathon which was the oldest? A: Take Your Pick
Q: Who was the special guest who took part in the 200th edition of A Question Of Sport to help give it its highest ever viewing figures of over 19 million? A: Princess Anne
Q: Who presented Ask The Family when it was revived in 2005? A: Dick and Dom
Q: What were the names of the four original zones in The Crystal Maze? A: Aztec, Futuristic, Medieval and Industrial
Q: Who commanded the Scottish army at the Battle Of Bannockburn? A: Robert The Bruce
Q: With which re-released song did The Bluebells have a number one hit in 1993? A: Young At Heart
Q: At which athletics event did American Mike Powell break the world record in 1991, a record which had stood for almost 33 years? A: Long Jump
Q: International Nursing Day was chosen as May 12th as it is the anniversary of the birth of which famous person from history? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: In music, which group named themselves after the main character in the 1984 film Paris, Texas? A: Travis
Q: Who were the last football team other than Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea to win the top league in England? A: Blackburn Rovers
Q: From which country does the drink Stella Artois originate? A: Belgium
Q: What did Earl John Montagu allegedly invent so that he could eat with one hand while playing cards with the other? A: The Sandwich
Q: Who founded Kentucky Fried Chicken? A: Colonel Sanders
Q: Which fruit was originally known as the love apple? A: Tomato
Q: Which drink is advertised with the slogan made in Scotland from girders? A: Irn-Bru
Q: Founded in Switzerland in 1866 by a German pharmacist, what is the world's largest food company? A: Nestle
Q: What was the first line of the Italian song O Sole Mio altered to in a long series of TV adverts for a food brand? A: Just One Cornetto
Q: What is the main alcoholic spirit used to make a Daiquiri cocktail? A: Rum
Q: Which type of food is named after the French for twice cooked? A: Biscuit
Q: Alicante, Cardinal, Cassidy, Niagara and Palamino are all varieties of which fruit? A: Grape
Q: In what year was the Big Mac introduced into McDonalds? A: 1968
Q: Which three films are tied for winning the most Academy Awards, with 11 Oscars each? A: Ben-Hur, Titanic and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
Q: As at 2006, Which actress has had 13 Oscar nominations, more than any other actress? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Which 1981 film is the only Best Picture Oscar winner to contain all of the letters of Oscar in its title? A: Chariots Of Fire
Q: As it 2006, who is the most nominated male actor in Oscar history? A: Jack Nicholson
Q: What is the most common street name in Britain? A: High Street
Q: Which British city has more miles of canal than Venice? A: Birmingham
Q: The first single to sell over two million copies in Great Britain was written as a tribute to where in Great Britain? A: Mull Of Kintyre
Q: Which lake in Great Britain has the largest volume of water? A: Loch Ness
Q: In the TV show Little Britain what is the name of the only gay in the village? A: Daffyd Thomas
Q: True or False: Great Britain is one of the top ten largest islands in the world? A: True
Q: Who lived in the top left-hand corner of Wales? A: Ivor The Engine
Q: What is the longest motorway in Great Britain? A: M6
Q: In Britain, which University has more students than any other? A: The Open University
Q: On which BBC TV show did the plasticine character Morph first appear? A: Take Hart
Q: Which shop did Anita Roddick open in Brighton in 1976, leading to a highly successful chain of stores now trading in over 40 countries worldwide? A: The Body Shop
Q: Zola Budd was blamed for the fall of which fellow athlete as they ran together in the 3000 metres final at the 1984 Olympic Games? A: Mary Decker
Q: Before he left The Beatles, which instrument did Stuart Sutcliffe play in the band? A: Bass
Q: What was the title of Mariah Carey's debut single, which was a top ten hit in the UK and a number one in the USA? A: Vision Of Love
Q: Which character did Hugo Weaving play in the film The Matrix? A: Agent Smith
Q: With which group did Tony Christie have a top ten hit with in 1999 with the song Walk Like A Panther? A: All Seeing I
Q: What is the most common gas in the air we breathe? A: Nitrogen
Q: Who is known in history as the father of computing? A: Charles Babbage
Q: What nationality was Robert Bunsen, of whom the Bunsen burner was named after? A: German
Q: What is the scientific name for the hip bone? A: Pelvis
Q: Which annual prizes were established by the legacy of a Swedish chemist? A: The Nobel prizes
Q: How many kilobytes are there in a megabyte? A: 1,024
Q: In what branch of science would a unit of distance called a Parsec be used? A: Astronomy
Q: How many minutes does it take the Hubble Space Telescope to complete one orbit around the earth? A: 97
Q: In the 1994 film The Flintstones, which legendary actress played Fred Flintstone's mother-in-law? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: In The Lion King, what relation is Scar to Simba? A: Uncle
Q: What colour is the wig that Julia Roberts wears when she first meets Richard Gere in the film Pretty Woman? A: Blonde
Q: Which Robert Louis Stevenson story became Disney's first non animated film in 1950? A: Treasure Island
Q: In 2005, which 8 word sentence was voted by the American Film Institute as the greatest movie quote of all time? A: Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn
Q: Who played Clarice Starling in the film Hannibal? A: Julianne Moore
Q: Which T. S. was the name of Dick Van Dyke's girlfriend in the film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang? A: Truly Scrumptious
Q: The film The Madness Of King George tells the story of which King of the United Kingdom? A: George III
Q: Which nation has won the Eurovision Song Contest more than any other? A: Ireland
Q: In 1978, which country became the first to receive nul points overall, with their entry Mil Etter Mil? A: Norway
Q: With which country did Celine Dion win the Eurovision Song Contest in 1988 singing Ne Partez Pas Sans Moi? A: Switzerland
Q: Who represented Russia in the 2003 Eurovision Song Contest after having a number one hit the previous year in the UK? A: t.A.T.u.
Q: Which comedian created and played Tony Ferrino, a Portuguese singer who had won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1980 with the song Papa Bendi? A: Steve Coogan
Q: What was the name of the act comprising of Gemma Abbey and Chris Cromby who became the first UK act to receive no points overall? A: Jemini
Q: After the 2005 Eurovision Song Contest, how many times had the United Kingdom finished second? A: 15
Q: In the BBC's poll of 2002 to find the 100 Greatest Britons, which four people in the top ten were alive during the 20th century? A: Winston Churchill, Princess Diana, The Queen and John Lennon
Q: Which four letters are worth 3 points each in the game of scrabble? A: B, C, M and P
Q: What are the first names of the four children who enter Narnia in The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe? A: Lucy, Peter, Susan and Edmund
Q: Which England international footballer started his footballing career at Canadian club Calgary Foothills FC? A: Owen Hargreaves
Q: How are twin sisters Monica and Gabriela Irimia better known in the music world? A: The Cheeky Girls
Q: Which famous song includes the line my shavin' razor's cold and it stings? A: Daydream Believer
Q: Who is the chubbiest out of all of Snow White's seven dwarfs? A: Happy
Q: Which Liverpool player is currently the record FA Cup final goalscorer, with 5 goals to his name? A: Ian Rush
Q: Which two word rhyming name is the common name for the plant called the Impatiens Walleriana? A: Busy Lizzie
Q: Which former Big Brother contestant who was famous for quotes such as what is the opposite of opposite? and do fish get thirsty? and later went on to present Braniac: Science Abuse on Sky television? A: Jon Tickle
Q: Which song gave Vic Reeves and The Wonder Stuff a number one hit in 1991? A: Dizzy
Q: Which 1999 Oscar winning film was directed by Mike Leigh and starred Jim Broadbent as Gilbert of Gilbert and Sullivan fame? A: Topsy-Turvy
Q: Which phrase was first used in a novel by William Burroughs in 1962 and is now commonly used to describe a type of music? A: Heavy Metal
Q: Who first coined the words madcap, hobnob and swagger? A: William Shakespeare
Q: What two word phrase is Sweeney Todd Cockney rhyming slang for? A: Flying Squad
Q: Which word in the NATO Phonetic Alphabet would score the most points in a game of Scrabble? A: Whiskey
Q: Beelzebub is Hebrew for what phrase, which is also the title of a famous novel? A: Lord Of The Flies
Q: What three letter word was removed from decimal coins in 1982? A: New
Q: In which year was the word homosexual first used? A: 1869
Q: As at 2006, who are the only team to have played in every World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: In which year were 3 points for a win first introduced to the group stages of the World Cup finals? A: 1994
Q: What was the name of the dog who found the World Cup in 1966 after it had been stolen? A: Pickles
Q: In which city did every match from the 1930 World Cup take place? A: Montevideo
Q: What type of animal was World Cup Willie, the mascot for the 1966 World Cup? A: Lion
Q: Which 40 year old captained the 1982 World Cup winners? A: Dino Zoff
Q: Who played Alex Forrest, the editor of a publishing company, in the 1987 film Fatal Attraction? A: Glenn Close
Q: In which Sheffield stadium do the events take place in the Channel 4 TV show The Games? A: The Don Valley Stadium
Q: Who played Fusilier Dave Tucker in Soldier Soldier? A: Robson Green
Q: Which darts player is known as The Power? A: Phil Taylor
Q: Who played Fagin in the original West End production of Oliver and in the 1968 film of the same name? A: Ron Moody
Q: Which mobile phone company was established in 2001 when a Japanese company merged with a Swedish company? A: Sony Ericsson
Q: The worlds largest spider is named after which biblical character? A: Goliath
Q: How many pairs of ribs does a human have? 8, 10 or 12? A: 12
Q: Which is the only fish able to hold objects in its tail? A: Seahorse
Q: What is the plural of mongoose? A: Mongooses
Q: Which animal has the Latin name of Lupus? A: Wolf
Q: No Mean City by Maggie Bell is the theme tune to which long running TV detective show? A: Taggart
Q: Which TV comedian has played characters including Stavros, Tim Nice But Dim and Wayne Slob? A: Harry Enfield
Q: In a 2004 poll run by the BBC, which TV show won the title of Best British Sitcom? A: Only Fools And Horses
Q: What was the nickname of Jimmy Nail's character in Auf Wiedersehen, Pet? A: Oz
Q: Who was the original presenter of Juke Box Jury? A: David Jacobs
Q: What is the name of the fictional borough in which Eastenders is set? A: Walford
Q: What was the name of the bar in which the TV show Cheers was set? A: Cheers
Q: In a game of snooker, what colour ball is worth 3 points? A: Green
Q: Which 21 year old model did Rod Stewart marry in 1990? A: Rachel Hunter
Q: Which actress famously stripped off her bikini top in slow motion in the 1982 film Fast Times At Ridgemont High? A: Phoebe Cates
Q: Which female tennis player won the French Open and U.S. Open in both 1991 and 1992, but didn't compete in either of these events in 1993 or 1994? A: Monica Seles
Q: What C is a name given to someone who makes or sells candles? A: Chandler
Q: How many golden stars appear in the circle on the blue background of the flag of the European Union? A: 12
Q: From which island nation does the lager Red Stripe originate? A: Jamaica
Q: How many points does a Star of David have? A: 6
Q: Who became the first women to win an Oscar for Best Original Song when she did so in 1976 with the film A Star Is Born? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: How many white stripes are there on the flag of the USA? A: 6
Q: The White Stripes 2003 hit single I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself was originally a hit in 1964 for which female singer? A: Dusty Springfield
Q: In which city is the hotel Burj al-Arab, which markets itself as the world's first seven-star hotel? A: Dubai
Q: What two colours were the stripes of Newcastle United's original football kit, before they changed it in 1904 to avoid confusion with another nearby football club? A: Red and White
Q: How many times has the flag known as the stars and stripes been changed since it was first adopted by 13 American states? A: 26
Q: Born in 1908, which author is best remembered for his series of novels on James Bond? A: Ian Fleming
Q: In which capital city is the largest museum in the world? A: Paris
Q: What is the name of the dog in Peter Pan? A: Nana
Q: In Brad Anderson's comic strip Marmaduke, what type of dog is Marmaduke? A: Great Dane
Q: Which artist caused controversy with their installation called My Bed in the 1999 Turner Prize exhibition? A: Tracy Emin
Q: Which author created the character of Miss Marple? A: Agatha Christie
Q: What colour is Art and Literature in the standard edition of Trivial Pursuit? A: Brown
Q: Who painted Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I which reportedly sold for a record 135 million dollars in June 2006? A: Gustav Klimt
Q: Reroute Novelist snobs is an anagram of which author? A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: In horseracing, if all the racecourses in Britain were listed alphabetically, which would come first? A: Aintree
Q: In football, who was Liverpool's captain when they first won the European cup final in 1977? A: Emlyn Hughes
Q: In golf, the U.S. Masters is played at Augusta, but in which state is Augusta? A: Georgia
Q: On a darts board, what number is diagonally opposite 19? A: 1
Q: Which sport was the subject of the 1963 film This Sporting Life? A: Rugby
Q: Which sport, of Celtic origin, uses a ball called a sliotar? A: Hurling
Q: With which sport would you associate Greg Le Mond? A: Cycling
Q: Ignoring the words football and club, which is the only team in the 2006/07 Premiership whose name contains all of the letters from the phrase red card? A: Manchester United
Q: Steve Davis reached every final of the Snooker World Championship between 1983 and 1989, but who were the two players who beat him? A: Dennis Taylor and Joe Johnson
Q: The first set of rules for the sport of Boxing, the London Prize Ring rules, were introduced in which year? A: 1743
Q: In Greek legend, what is the name given to the creature that is half man and half bull? A: Minotaur
Q: Based on characters from Greek mythology, the 1963 film Jason And The Argonauts is centred around a quest to find what? A: The Golden Fleece
Q: According to legend, who rid Ireland of snakes? A: St. Patrick
Q: According to Roman mythology, which twins founded Rome? A: Romulus and Remus
Q: In Greek mythology, what name is given to the monsters with sharp fangs and hair of living snakes? A: Gorgons
Q: According to legend, who rode through the streets of Coventry naked and was seen by someone called Tom, leading to the phrase Peeping Tom? A: Lady Godiva
Q: In Greek mythology who died when he flew too close to the sun and the wax holding together his artificial wings melted? A: Icarus
Q: What was the name of the 1963 Disney film that featured the legendary characters of Merlin and King Arthur? A: The Sword In The Stone
Q: Sharing her name with a brand of margarine, who was the Roman goddess of flowers and the season of spring? A: Flora
Q: Who was the chief God in Norse mythology? A: Odin
Q: Who wrote the lyrics to the songs in The Sound Of Music? Rogers or Hammerstein? A: Hammerstein
Q: Who wrote the musical We Will Rock You in collaboration with Queen members Brian May and Roger Taylor? A: Ben Elton
Q: George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion was adapted to become which musical? A: My Fair Lady
Q: Premiering in New York in 1967, which musical became famous for the amount of nudity involved? A: Hair
Q: Who wrote the book on which the musical Les Miserables is based? A: Victor Hugo
Q: Which song from Joseph And The Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat gave Jason Donovan a number one hit single in 1991? A: Any Dream Will Do
Q: Who played Fanny Brice in the movie version of the musical Funny Girl? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: First performed in 1948, which musical is based on Shakespeare's The Taming Of The Shrew? A: Kiss Me, Kate
Q: Miss Saigon premiered in Drury Lane, London in 1989, but how many performances were put on there before it closed? A: 4,264
Q: What is the most frequently sung song in the language of English? A: Happy Birthday To You
Q: Which reality TV show was won by MC Harvey, Azra Akin and Terri Dwyer in 2003, and by Jarrod Batchelor, Shane Lynch and Lady Isabella Hervey in 2004? A: The Games
Q: Which political party changed it's name from the Ecology Party in 1985? A: The Green Party
Q: Which film features Tom Cruise dancing in his underwear to Old Time Rock 'n' Roll by Bob Seger? A: Risky Business
Q: Which four letter word can go before match and drive and after screen and personality to form four well known phrases? A: Test
Q: What colour is the cross on the Swedish flag? A: Yellow
Q: Who had top ten hits in 1970 with Give Me Just A Little More Time and You've Got Me Dangling On A String? A: Chairmen Of The Board
Q: According to the song Frosty The Snowman, what were Frosty's eyes made out of? A: Coal
Q: Which Christmas song won an Oscar for Best Song at the 1942 Academy Awards? A: White Christmas
Q: The first line of the song Do They Know It's Christmas? by Band Aid was originally intended for which singer, who finally got to sing it during Live Aid? A: David Bowie
Q: In 1965, which Christmas song became the first song to be broadcast from space? A: Jingle Bells
Q: In 1987, the Pogues featuring Kirsty MacColl were denied a Christmas Number One with the song Fairytale Of New York. Which song kept them at number 2 with Pogues singer Shane McGowan saying we were beaten by two queens and a drum machine? A: Always On My Mind
Q: From which animated short film does the song Walking In The Air come? A: The Snowman
Q: In the song Twelve Days Of Christmas, what are there 11 of? A: Pipers Piping
Q: In 1986, whose song was Christmas number one in the UK, 2 years after he had died? A: Jackie Wilson's
Q: What was the Titanic's first port of call after it left Southampton? A: Cherbourg
Q: Father Ted Crilly and Father Dougal McGuire lived on Craggy Island with which other priest? A: Father Jack Hackett
Q: Which is the only X rated film to win an Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.  According to Exodus what comes next? A: Hand for hand, foot for foot
Q: In which full-length cartoon are the main characters called Pongo and Perdita? A: 101 Dalmatians
Q: What is the capital city of Belarus? A: Minsk
Q: Ganymede is the largest moon in the solar system, around which planet does it orbit? A: Jupiter
Q: Who played bass guitar in the Beatles? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Which pop group named themselves after a fictional band from the novel A Clockwork Orange? A: Heaven 17
Q: What is the singer Prince's real first name? A: Prince
Q: How many quavers are there in a minim? 2, 4 or 8? A: 4
Q: Which female vocalist sang on Eminem's hit song Stan? A: Dido
Q: By what name was singer Charles Weedon Westover better known, who committed suicide in 1990 by shooting himself? A: Del Shannon
Q: Which part did Deforest Kelley play in the TV series Star Trek? A: Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy
Q: Who wrote the novel The War Of The Worlds? A: H.G. Wells
Q: Directed by Joss Whedon, which 2005 science fiction movie was based on a short-lived TV show that was cancelled after only eleven of its episodes were broadcast? A: Serenity
Q: What was the name of the computer in the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey? A: HAL 9000
Q: Who played the third incarnation of the Doctor in the TV series Doctor Who? A: Jon Pertwee
Q: What is the surname of the identical twin brothers who compiled the Guiness Book of Records together between 1955 and 1975? A: McWhirter
Q: What is the name of Austin Powers' twin brother? A: Dougie Powers
Q: Who wrote the 1872 novel in which Tweedledum and Tweedledee first appear? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the twin sister of Apollo? A: Artemis
Q: What are the names of Marge's twin sisters in The Simpsons? A: Patty and Selma
Q: Which former heavyweight boxing champion has an identical twin brother called George? A: Henry Cooper
Q: What is the surname of the Australian cricketing twins Mark and Steve? A: Waugh
Q: Who is Pauline Fowler's twin in Eastenders? A: Pete Beale
Q: Who is the twin sister of the cartoon hero He-Man? A: She-Ra
Q: What is the name of Postman Pat's black and white cat? A: Jess
Q: What was the name of the lioness raised by George and Joy Adamson in the book Born Free? A: Elsa
Q: What is the name of the lion in C.S. Lewis' The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe? A: Aslan
Q: What is the name of the black panther in The Jungle Book? A: Bagheera
Q: Which American writer and cartoonist was responsible for The Cat In The Hat series? A: Dr Seuss
Q: Who wrote Old Possum's Book Of Practical Cats? A: T.S. Eliot
Q: Who played the title role in the 2004 movie Catwoman? A: Halle Berry
Q: Who had a number one hit with Puppy Love in 1972? A: Donny Osmond
Q: Born on Valentine's Day in 1951, who is the only English footballer to have named European Footballer of the Year twice? A: Kevin Keegan
Q: Which former Bond girl played Paige Prescott in the 2001 horror film Valentine? A: Denise Richards
Q: Which Valentine had number one hits in the UK called Finger Of Suspicion and Christmas Alphabet? A: Dickie Valentine
Q: Which TV soap opera features a police officer called Calvin Valentine? A: Hollyoaks
Q: Mars has two moons. Phobos is one, but what is the other one called? A: Deimos
Q: In the 1966 movie The Good, The Bad And The Ugly, Clint Eastwood played the Good" and Lee van Cleef played "the Bad", but who played "the Ugly"? A: Eli Wallach
Q: The Mauretania, launched in 1906, was the largest and fastest ship in the world at that time. What was the name of her sister ship that was launched in the same year, but sunk by a German U-boat in 1915? A: Lusitania
Q: The Ballearics are made up of three major islands. Majorca and Minorca are two, but what is the other one? A: Ibiza
Q: Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked on the moon in 1969, but who was the third astronaut on Apollo 11, who remained in the orbitter? A: Micheal Collins
Q: Which video game series is sometimes referred to as GTA? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: The Exiles is the nickname of which football club? A: Chester
Q: What large animal has a gestation period of 22 months, the longest of any land animal? A: Elephant
Q: What is made of minerals and tiny pieces of rock that have come from the erosion and weathering of rocks? A: Sand
Q: Developed by Nintendo in the 1980s, what is currently the biggest selling video game of all time? A: Super Mario Bros.
Q: Arachnophobia is a fear of what? A: Spiders
Q: Gary Lightbody is the lead singer in which group? A: Snow Patrol
Q: Actor who played the lead role in a 1952 smash western directed by Fred Zinnemann? A: Gary Cooper
Q: Glassed-eyed member of the 'Rat Pack'? A: Sammy Davis Junior
Q: The younger co-writer of the 1848 Communist Manifesto? A: Friedrich Engels
Q: An English filmstar who played a character pitied by the gypsy girl Esmeralda? A: Charles Laughton
Q: First lady of Argentina from 1946 - 1952? A: Eva Peron
Q: Born 1931 in Swindon she became a 'blonde bombshell'? A: Diana Dors
Q: What was the title of Jean-Paul Sartre's first play? A: The Flies
Q: What was Bedloe's Island officially renamed to in 1956? A: Liberty Island
Q: Of which famous building was Ictinos the architect? A: The Parthenon
Q: In what field did Albert Namatjira achieve success and fame? A: Aboriginal Art
Q: Who married Catharine von Bora, a former nun? A: Martin Luther
Q: Who wrote the novel Love In The Time Of Cholera? A: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
Q: How did Tollund Man die? A: Strangulation
Q: The death of which Swedish king inspired an opera by Verdi? A: Gustavus III
Q: By what stage name did William Claude Dukenfield achieve fame? A: W. C. Fields
Q: Who received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song from the film Live and Let Die? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Who starred in the title role in the 1968 Film The Boston Strangler? A: Tony Curtis
Q: Who received $3.7 million for two weeks work for his part in the 1978 film Superman? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Who, having been an Olympic swimming champion achieved fame in a second career and was famous for his ululating yell? A: Johnny Weissmuller
Q: Whose scandalous affair with Lord Alfred Douglas eventually led to imprisonment? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Pirate Edward Teach was better known by what nickname? A: Blackbeard
Q: What nickname was given to the 7th Armoured Division in 1940? A: The Desert Rats
Q: US outlaw Henry McCarty was better known by what nickname? A: Billy the Kid
Q: Which US State is known as "Mount Rushmore State". A: South Dakota
Q: Which Chelsea footballer of the 60s and 70s was given the nickname Chopper? A: Ron Harris
Q: What nickname has been given to Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh? A: The Turbanator
Q: Which British Prime Minister was nicknamed The Grocer in Private Eye? A: Edward Heath
Q: Which American golfer is affectionately called The Walrus for his portly build and his ample moustache? A: Craig Stadler
Q: Linseed Oil is generated from which plant? A: Flax
Q: The transportation of what is performed with an Archimedes Screw? A: Water
Q: What was the maiden name of Jane Austen's heroine Emma? A: Woodhouse
Q: Elkie Brooks and Robert Palmer sang together in which band? A: Vinegar Joe
Q: What nationality were The Mixtures? A: Australian
Q: A hendecagon has how many sides? A: Eleven
Q: Which fruit is distilled to make Calvados? A: Apples
Q: Which fruit has a Latin name that translates as Armenian Plum? A: Apricot
Q: Which large fleshy fruit of the far east has been banned from some public areas because of it's distinctive odour? A: Durian
Q: Which fruit shares a name with a 1969 short film by Eric Sykes, and an animated television show for children? A: Rhubarb
Q: What is the name of Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter? A: Apple
Q: A cantaloupe belongs to which family of fruits? A: Melon
Q: Which football league club are known as the Cherries? A: Bournemouth
Q: Native to India, what is the largest treeborne fruit in the world? A: Jackfruit
Q: Which member of Take That shares his name with a fruit? A: Jason Orange
Q: What motorcycle has three crossed tuning forks as its emblem? A: Yamaha
Q: Famous for its V-twins, what American motorcycle manufacturer started producing machines in 1903? A: Harley-Davidson
Q: The Bonneville' is made by whom? A: Triumph
Q: What famous marque of motorcycle was Lawrence of Arabia riding when he was tragically killed in Dorset in 1936? A: Brough Superior
Q: The Black Shadow and Black Prince are two motorcycle models made in the 1950's, by whom? A: Vincent
Q: What motorcycle has a stylised' propeller as its tank badge? A: B.M.W.
Q: How many gears do the motorcycles used in speedway have? A: One
Q: The Pogues lead singer Shane MacGowan was born on Christmas Day in 1957.  Which female singer featured on their 1987 Christmas single? A: Kirsty MacColl
Q: On Christmas Day 1977, Menachem Begin of Israel met with Anwar Sadat of Egypt to start peace talks.  Which one of them was celebrating their birthday that day? A: Anwar Sadat
Q: Humphrey Bogart, who was born on Christmas Day 1899, said the line "Here's looking at you kid." In which film? A: Casablanca
Q: Charlie Chaplin who died on Christmas Day in 1977, co founded which film studio along with Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks? A: United Artists
Q: Born on Christmas Day in 1944, by what stage name was the broadcaster Maurice Cole better known? A: Kenny Everett
Q: What is the more common name for the plant viscum album? A: Mistletoe
Q: Comedian Jerry Lewis formed a double act with which actor who died on Christmas Day in 1995? A: Dean Martin
Q: Former communist dictator Nicolae Ceauescu, was executed on Christmas Day in 1989.  Which country did he once control? A: Romania
Q: The American comedian and actor William Claude Dukenfield, died on Christmas Day in 1946.  How was he better known? A: W C Fields
Q: If Tony Blackburn won in 2002, Phil Tuffnell won in 2003, and Kerry Katona won in 2004, who won in 2007? A: Christopher Biggins. (I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here. Joe Pasquale 04, Carol Thatcher 05, Matt Willis 06, and Joe Swash 08).
Q: If David Lloyd George is 1, Andrew Bonal Law is 2, and Stanley Baldwin is 3, who is 4? A: Ramsay MacDonald. (Prime Ministers post WW1).
Q: If China is 1, India is 2, and USA is 3, who is 4? A: Indonesia.
Q: B.O.A.C. are the initials of which airline? A: British Overseas Airways Corporation
Q: Concerned about the impact of uncontrolled development and industrialisation, what National Charity was founded in 1895 by three Victorian philanthropists, Miss Octavia Hill, Sir Robert Hunter and Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley? A: The National Trust
Q: What famous make of motorcycle was Lawrence of Arabia riding when he was tragically killed in Dorset in 1936? A: Brough Superior
Q: What colour of flag should a ship fly to show it is in quarantine? A: Yellow
Q: Purple Brittlegill, Velvet Shank and Orange Milkcap are three types of what? A: Fungi
Q: Who were Tom and Barbara's neighbours in The Good Life? A: Margo and Jerry Leadbetter
Q: In Cockney Rhyming slang what are your `Daisy Roots`? A: Boots
Q: What is the river Ganga called in Bangladesh? A: Padma
Q: Chaetophobia is the fear of what? A: Hair
Q: Winston Churchill married Clementine in 1908, but what was her maiden name? A: Hozier
Q: Who wrote Twenty Years Before The Mast? A: Charles Erskine
Q: Who said `I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an exception`? A: Groucho Marx
Q: How many pints does a ten gallon hat hold? A: 6
Q: Who was murdered by Fitzurse, de Tracy, de Morville and Le Breton ? A: Thomas Becket
Q: What procedure removes the threat of brucellosis from milk? A: Pasteurisation
Q: Michael Barratt was the presenter of which BBC current affairs programme in the 1970s? A: Nationwide
Q: Who presented a series in 2008 where he visited each of the US states in 6 episodes? A: Stephen Fry
Q: Who has presented Give Us A Clue, Child's Play, and Crackerjack? A: Michael Aspel
Q: Which sitcom actor presents Scrapheap Challenge? A: Robert Llewellyn
Q: Who has presented City Hospital, Departure Lounge and Last Choir Standing? A: Nick Knowles
Q: Who presents Location, Location, Location with Phil Spencer? A: Kirstie Allsopp
Q: Myleen Klass now presents 10 Years Younger on Channel 4, but what was the name of the pop band that gave her success in 2001? A: Hear'Say
Q: Who presented Ask The Family in the 1970s? A: Robert Robinson
Q: Who took over as presenter of Countdown from Des O`Connor in 2009? A: Jeff Stelling
Q: Which Radio 4 comedy panel game has run since 1972, but did not air in 2008 following the death of it`s presenter? A: I`m sorry, I haven`t a clue
Q: What answer did Major Charles Ingram give to his 1m question? A: Googol
Q: Who joined the Eggheads team in 2008, having won Are You An Egghead? A: Barry Simmons
Q: What was the name of the first cloned mammal? A: Dolly
Q: In which country was the first FIFA World Cup held? A: Uruguay
Q: Who is the present FIFA president? A: Sepp Blatter
Q: Which part of the ear is commonly known as the anvil? A: Incus
Q: A chinese astronaut is known as what? A: Taikonaut
Q: What was the name of the 1927 film that was directed by Fritz Lang and featured a robot called Maria that inspired George Lucas to create the character C-3PO? A: Metropolis
Q: What is the name of the home planet of the Transformers? A: Cybertron
Q: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Robert Patrick and Kristanna Loken have all played terminators in movies, but which one played the T-1000 in Terminator 2: Judgement Day? A: Robert Patrick
Q: Which sci-fi author wrote the three laws of robotics? A: Issac Asimov
Q: Johnny 5 was the central character in which film? A: Short Circuit
Q: Droids was a animated TV series that was a spin off of which movie franchise? A: Star Wars
Q: Who played the gunslinging cowboy robot 406 in the 1973 movie Westworld? A: Yul Brynner
Q: Brent Spiner played which character in Star Trek: The Next Generation? A: Lieutenant Commander Data
Q: What was the name of the robot in Forbidden Planet? A: Robbie the robot
Q: Who was the first man to swim the English Channel? A: Captain Matthew Webb
Q: What city, famous for its 'black hole' is the Capital of West Bengal, and the third largest in India? A: Calcutta
Q: The second closest planet to the sun is what? A: Venus
Q: Who was the first professional footballer to be knighted? A: Stanley Matthews
Q: Au is the chemical symbol for what? A: Gold
Q: A dry red wine produced in the Bordeaux region of France is frequently known as a what? A: Claret
Q: Leonard Rossiter and Joan Collins advertised what drink in the 1970s? A: Cinzano Bianco
Q: What car manufacturer produces the Shogun? A: Mitsubishi
Q: This British tree is used to make hockey sticks, oars, paddles, rudders, billiard cues, cricket stumps, polo sticks and policemen's truncheons? A: The Ash
Q: What was E.T.'s favorite candy? A: Reese's Pieces
Q: What was the name of the spaceship in Alien? A: Nostromo
Q: What was the Joker's real name in Batman? A: Jack Napier
Q: How old is the prostitute, played by Jodie Foster in Taxi Driver, supposed to be? A: 12
Q: Brandon Lee died during the making of which film? A: The Crow
Q: Which type of car featured in The Italian Job? A: Mini
Q: What was the first film to win a Best Actor Oscar for Jack Nicholson? A: One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest
Q: The sequel to the movie Mad Max was called Mad Max 2, but what was the third in the series called? A: Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome
Q: Noah had 3 sons, Ham and Shem were 2, who was the other? A: Japheth
Q: Who recorded 3 albums in the 1970s, which became known as the Berlin Trilogy? A: David Bowie
Q: In mythology, what was the name of the 3-headed dog that guarded the gates to Hades? A: Cerberus
Q: The Ironman event consists of 3 elements - a marathon, swimming, and which other? A: Cycling
Q: What is the name for the pinkish corner of the eye? A: The caruncula
Q: What is the name for the white half moon shape on your fingers? A: a lunula
Q: What is the crease between your lips and your nose called? A: The philtrum
Q: What is the name for the revolving spikey wheel on the end of a cowboy's spurs called? A: A rowel
Q: If a quaver is an 8th note in music, what is a 64th note called? A: A hemidemisemiquaver
Q: What is the dot called above an 'i' or 'j' called? A: A tittle
Q: Change the first letter in the surname of a famous jockey to get the surname of a famous New Zealand cricketer. Whats the name of the jockey and the cricketer. A: Frankie Dettori and Daniel Vettori
Q: Which two words, allegedly heard for the first time in the song Born to be Wild by Steppenwolf, describe a style of rock music? A: Heavy Metal
Q: What Olympic sport is derived from the Greek word for naked? A: Gymnastics
Q: If you are a Greek man and wear a fustenella what kind of garment would you be wearing? A: Skirt
Q: In which ocean is the former penal settlement of Devil's Island? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: The Ligurian Sea is an arm of which body of water? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Which expanse of sea in the Orkney Islands was the main base of the British Grand Fleet in World War I? A: Scapa Flow
Q: Who is the Greek God of the Sea? A: Poseidon
Q: Standing on the Arabian Sea what is the principal seaport of Pakistan? A: Karachi
Q: The Gulf of Venice is the northern part of which sea? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: Which river flows into the Dead Sea? A: River Jordan
Q: In which ocean are the Kara, Beaufort and Lincoln Seas situated? A: Arctic Ocean
Q: Delia Smith is associated with which football league club? A: Norwich City
Q: Author Wilbur Smith was born and lived most of his life in which country? A: Rhodesia
Q: Dr Smith was the cowardly troublemaker in "Lost in Space". What was his first name? A: Zachary
Q: On what piece of equipment would you perform a "Smith Grind"? A: A Skateboard
Q: Smith & Wesson manufacture what? A: Firearms
Q: What was Will Smith's character's name in "Men in Black"? A: Agent J
Q: James Todd Smith, born 1968, is an American award winning rapper and actor. What is he better known as? A: LL Cool J
Q: Manchester United signed Patrice Evra from which other football team? A: Monaco
Q: Which English football team play thair home games at Spotland? A: rochdale
Q: Which French side knocked Bolton Wanderers out of the 2006 UEFA cup? A: Olympic Marseille
Q: Benfica and F.C. Porto compete in which country? A: Portugal
Q: Which country did Oliver Kahn play for? A: Germany
Q: Who were the first ever English team to win away against Real Madrid? A: Arsenal
Q: Who had a hit single in 1991 with The One And Only? A: Chesney Hawkes
Q: BBC 2 started its programming on 20 April, in which year? 1954, 1959 or 1964? A: 1964
Q: Who wrote The Three Musketeers? A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: In what year was the first Six Nations Championship played? A: 2000
Q: Who directed the 1960 film The Magnificent Seven? A: John Sturges
Q: What was given by my true love on the eighth day of Christmas? A: Eight maids-a-milking
Q: Traditionally, which player in a rugby league team wore the number nine shirt? A: Hooker
Q: The novel written by Agatha Christie that was renamed for political correctness in 1940 as Ten Little Indians has again been renamed.  How is this story now titled? A: And Then There Were None
Q: Which architect's works include Jameos del Agua, Mirador del Rio and Jardin de Cactus? A: Cesar Manrique
Q: What is the capital of Jersey? A: St Helier
Q: Which winner of the X Factor (UK) reached number 1 in the UK singles chart with their single 'Hallelujah'? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Which philosopher was born in 551 BC in China? A: Confucius
Q: The Birds, a film by Alfred Hitchcock, was inspired by the short novel of the same name by which author? A: Daphne Du Maurier
Q: Who is the only person to be named number one box office star in the world for a five years in a row, when he acheived this every year from 1978 to 1982? A: Burt Reynolds
Q: What was Bon Jovi's first UK top ten hit single? A: Livin' On a Prayer
Q: Which famous movie charcter has had movies named after him in the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s and the 2000s? A: Rocky Balboa
Q: How many number one singles did Queen have while Freddie Mercury was alive? A: Three
Q: In which TV show would you find the characters T-Bag and Linc The Sink? A: Prison Break
Q: In Star Wars what creatures did the sand people ride? A: Banthas
Q: What was Kylie Minogue's first UK number one single? A: I Should Be So Lucky
Q: Which famous person from the world of movies died on Christmas Day 1977? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: In which occupation would you use a plonker? A: Tailoring
Q: Which sport or pastime would you be playing if you tried to sell a dummy to a hooker? A: Rugby
Q: In which sport or pastime do players tap and guard their balls? A: Bowls
Q: In which sport or pastime might you see six chinamen in a maiden or a nightwatchman out with a duck? A: Cricket
Q: Which sport or pastime would you be playing if you flicked your wink with your squidger into a tiddle? A: Tiddleywinks
Q: What English name is ususally given to The Palazzo Ducale in Venice ? A: The Doge's Palace
Q: On which famous river would you find the Cat and Mouse castles ? A: The River Rhine
Q: Which is the most southerly of The Channel Islands ? A: Jersey
Q: What is the highest peak in Exmoor National Park ? A: Dunkery Beacon
Q: What is the name of the Cumbrian town on the river Eden which has an annual horse fair ? A: Appleby
Q: Which city stands on the rivers Spree and Havel ? A: Berlin
Q: What is the largest lake in Italy ? A: Lake Garda
Q: What is the second largest of the Balearic Islands ? A: Menorca
Q: What is the longest river in Scandinavia ? A: The River Glomma
Q: The Northwest of which country is called Thrace ? A: Greece
Q: Which German football club has won the most league titles? A: FC Bayern Munich
Q: What was the name of the cat that survived the sinking of the Bismarck, HMS Cossack and the HMS Ark Royal in WW II ? A: Unsinkable Sam
Q: Which US state did Sir Walter Raleigh name? A: Virginia
Q: Which book begins with the line The American handed Leamus another cup of coffee.... ? A: The Spy Who Came In From The Cold
Q: Which two men are waiting for Godot? A: Vladimir and Estragon
Q: What is a bird AND a fruit? A: Kiwi
Q: Which Thomas was executed alongside Guy Fawkes in November 1605? A: Winter
Q: In which book would one find the trog like human species named Morlocks? A: The Time Machine
Q: Gossima was the original name for which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: Which actor was a Prefab Sprout album? A: Steve McQueen
Q: Which English Monarch succeeded William III of Orange? A: Anne
Q: Which planet's day is longer than its year? A: Venus
Q: What is the name of the closest star to Earth? A: The Sun
Q: Who, in 1960, became the first woman Prime Minister in the world? A: Sirimavo Bandaranaike
Q: Which ancient thinker is said to have had a golden thigh? A: Pythagorus
Q: Which English cricket county did W. G. Grace represent? A: Gloucestershire
Q: In Japanese what word means they who serve? A: Samurai
Q: Which singing and dancing actor was born Frederick Austerlitz in 1899? A: Fred Astaire
Q: Who wrote the play Under Milk Wood? A: Dylan Thomas
Q: Which actress, who died in 1962, starred in the films Some Like It Hot and Bus Stop? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Which author's works include The History Of Mr Polly, The Time Machine and The War Of The Worlds? A: H.G. Wells
Q: Who wrote the poem The Hunting Of The Snark? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Who played Vito Corleone in The Godfather? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Who wrote The Communist Manifesto? A: Karl Marx
Q: Which famous singer songwriter was the inspiration for the 2007 movie I'm Not There? A: Bob Dylan
Q: What is the name of Ron Weasley's pet rat in the Harry Potter movies? A: Scabbers
Q: Of Mice And Men is a novel by which American novelist? A: John Steinbeck
Q: There's a moose loose aboot this hoose is a line from the 1958 no1 hit single Hoots Mon by which band? A: Lord Rockingham's XI
Q: Glenis the Guinea Pig is which rodent superstar's girlfriend? A: Roland Rat's
Q: Spike the bulldog from the Tom And Jerry cartoons has a son called what? A: Tyke
Q: In the 1997 comedy movie MouseHunt which two comic actors play the parts of the Smuntz brothers Ernie and Lars? A: Nathan Lane and Lee Evans
Q: What is the first name of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple? A: Jane
Q: What was the name of the number one hit single by Spitting Image in 1986? A: The Chicken Song
Q: Who rode Kris Kin to success in the Epsom Derby in 2003? A: Kieran Fallon
Q: Who wrote the classic thriller novel The Thirty-Nine Steps? A: John Buchan
Q: Who was the last of the seven Roman kings? A: Lucius Tarquinius Superbus
Q: What colour was Barbara Windsor's bikini in Carry On Camping? A: Green
Q: Who did Rocky fight for the title in the original film? A: Apollo Creed
Q: What was the rank Steve McQueen's character in The Great Escape? A: Captain Hilts
Q: In which two James Bond films did Jaws appear? A: The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker
Q: What was Major Roy Franklin's nickname in The Guns of Navarone? A: Lucky
Q: What was the angel's name in It's a Wonderful Life? A: Clarence
Q: What were the names of the gay couple in Four Weddings and a funeral? A: Gareth and Matthew
Q: Which 1964 movie saw Peter Sellars utter the words "You can't fight in here Gentlemen this is a War Room"? A: Dr Strangelove.
Q: Two different doctors appear in Diagnosis Murder, and Grey's Anatomy, but have the same name. What is it? A: Dr Mark Sloan.
Q: What was Dr No's first name? A: Julius
Q: What was the name of the doctor played by Harrison Ford in the movie The Fugitive? A: Dr Richard Kimble
Q: What was the nickname of Dr Leonard McCoy in the original Star Trek series? A: Bones.
Q: Who played the lead part of Dr Malcolm Crowe in the movie Sixth Sense? A: Bruce Willis
Q: What is the first name of Dr House, played by Hugh Lawrie? A: Gregory.
Q: What was the name of the monkey in The Lion King? A: Rafiki
Q: In which country is The Aristocats set? A: France
Q: What is the name of the main ant from A Bug's Life? A: Flik
Q: What was the first full length animated feature to be produced by Walt Disney? A: Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs
Q: Which famous Welsh singer sings the title song in The Emperor's New Groove? A: Tom Jones
Q: What name does Woody have carved on the bottom of his foot in Toy Story? A: Andy
Q: Lotus made an open top sports car called the Seven, but who makes it now? A: Caterham Cars
Q: Who was the only non-American to star as one of the Magnificent Seven? A: Horst Buchholz
Q: One of the Seven Wonders of the World was at Alexandria. What type of structure was it? A: A lighthouse
Q: New Zealand has won every IRB Sevens tournament since 1999 except one. Who won in 2005-2006? A: Fiji
Q: What was the name of the dog in Enid Blighton's Secret Seven books? A: Scamper
Q: Who wrote the Seven Dials Mystery? A: Agatha Christie
Q: Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt starred in Seven, but who played the killer? A: Kevin Spacey
Q: What was the name of the computer in Blake's Seven? A: Zen
Q: In what year did the first Red Nose Day take place? A: 1988
Q: Before Red Nose Day there were two comic relief records. What was the first one called and who was it by? A: Living Doll by Cliff Richard and The Young Ones
Q: The Stonk was the Red Nose Day single of 1991. Which comedy duo performed it? A: Hale and Pace
Q: Which Beatles song did Bananarama featuring La Na Nee Nee Noo Noo cover for Red Nose Day in 1989? A: Help
Q: Who played Harry Potter in a sketch for Red Nose Day in 2003? A: Dawn French
Q: In a Little Britain sketch for Red Nose Day in 2007, who played Vicky Pollard's sister? A: Kate Moss
Q: What was the title of the 1995 Red Nose Day single featuring Eric Clapton? A: Love Can Build A Bridge
Q: What was the name of Roy Rogers' horse? A: Trigger
Q: What was the name of Tex Ritter's horse? A: White Flash
Q: What ws the name of Tonto's horse? A: Scout
Q: What was the name of Hopalong Cassidy's horse? A: Topper
Q: What was the name of The Cisco Kid's horse? A: Diablo
Q: What was yhe name of Ken Maynard's horse? A: Tarzan
Q: What was the name of Tom Mix's horse? A: Tony
Q: What was the name of Dale Evans' horse? A: Buttermilk
Q: What are the five first names of the members of the pop group Girls Aloud? A: Cheryl (Cole), Nadine (Coyle), Sarah (Harding), Nicola (Roberts) and Kimberley (Walsh)
Q: In the Bible, what are the five books that make up the Pentateuch? A: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy
Q: What are the names of the four houses at Hogwarts in the Harry Potter novels? A: Gryffindor, Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, and Slytherin
Q: Which TV show is centred around Al Bundy, his wife Peggy, and their children Kelly and Bud? A: Married With Children
Q: On which 1990s TV show would you find Captain Nathan Bridger? A: SeaQuest DSV
Q: On the TV show Blue Thunder, what type of vehicle was Blue Thunder? A: A helicopter
Q: What breed was Columbo's dog? A: Basset hound
Q: Which famous American actor played Rowdy Yates in the TV series Rawhide? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who was the first winner of ITV's Dancing On Ice? A: Gaynor Faye
Q: On the third series of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here, in what position did Jordan finish? A: Fifth
Q: Who has starred in both Star Trek and Heroes? A: George Takei
Q: As of 2009, who holds the record for winning more major golf championships than anyone else? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: As of 2009, who is the only Scottish footballer to have been named European Footballer of the Year? A: Denis Law
Q: How many of Muhammad Ali's 61 professional boxing fights did he win? 50, 56 or 60? A: 56
Q: What was the nationality of former Olympic downhill skier Franz Klammer? A: Austrian
Q: On 6 May 1954 Roger Bannister was the first person to run a mile in under four minutes.  Who took the record from him 46 days later? A: John Landy
Q: How many gold medals did Mark Spitz win in the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City? A: Two
Q: As on 2009, which American Football team has won the most Superbowls? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: In which royal residence did both George V and George VI die? A: Sandringham House
Q: Which scientific instrument was invented by father and son Hans and Zacharias Jansen in the late 16th Century? A: Microscope
Q: Who was the commander-in-chief of the Greeks in the Trojan Wars and was murdered by his wife Clytemnestra? A: Agamemnon
Q: Which Australian group started their career in 1977 as The Ferris Brothers? A: INXS
Q: Who is the mother of actress Vanessa Redgrave? A: Rachel Kempson
Q: In which country did David Beckham marry Victoria Adams? A: Ireland
Q: Which of the disciples of Jesus was the brother of Andrew? A: Saint Peter
Q: What is Dr Doom's first name? A: Victor
Q: Ben Grimm is better known by what name? A: The Thing
Q: Who plays Colonel Nick Fury in the film Iron Man? A: Samuel L. Jackson
Q: What is the name of the newspaper that Peter Parker works for? A: The Daily Bugle
Q: Who is Kal-El better known as? A: Superman
Q: Who played Nick Fury in the made for TV movie of the same name? A: David Hasselhoff
Q: What is the name of the doctor of which the Incredible Hulk is the alter-ego? A: Bruce Banner
Q: What were the full names of Bonnie and Clyde? A: Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow
Q: Who played Irish-American cop Jim Malone in the 1987 film The Untouchables? A: Sean Connery
Q: Brother owner Anna Sage is best known in history for giving information to the FBI on which bank robber? A: John Dillinger
Q: Martin Riggs is a police officer in which series of films? A: Lethal Weapon
Q: The film Reservoir Dogs involved a botched job to steal what type of items? A: Jewellery
Q: Which movie, starring Steve McQueen and Ali MacGraw, was remade with Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger in the leading roles? A: The Getaway
Q: Real life police officers Buddy Russo and Jimmy Popeye Doyle are depicted in the movie The French Connection by which two actors? A: Gene Hackman and Roy Scheider
Q: Officer Alex J. Murphy became better known by what name in the title of a 1987 film? A: RoboCop
Q: Who played The Outlaw Josie Wales in the movie of the same name? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who was the dentist, gambler and gunfighter of the American Old West, who is usually remembered for his friendship with Wyatt Earp? A: John Henry Doc Holliday
Q: Who wrote and performed the Oscar Nominated track Blaze Of Glory for the movie Young Guns 2? A: Jon Bon Jovi
Q: In response to his young radio listeners aspiring to be just like him, who created the Cowboy Code, or Cowboy Commandments? A: Gene Autry
Q: What was John Wayne's last movie? A: The Shootist
Q: Together For The First Time - James Stewart - John Wayne - in the masterpiece of four-time Academy Award winner John Ford was the tag-line to what movie? A: The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance
Q: In 2006 there were approximately how many pubs in the UK? 47,500, 57,500 or 67,500? A: 57,500
Q: What is the second most common pub name in the UK behind the Red Lion? A: The Royal Oak
Q: Amos Brierly and Mr Wilks ran which pub on TV? A: The Woolpack
Q: With only one letter in its name. What is the name of the pub with the shortest name? A: Q
Q: The Bottle Inn at Marshwood in Dorset has what annual eye watering and tongue numbing item on the menu? A: Nettles
Q: Which movie sees Jack Lemmon and Tont Curtis dressed as women in an all girl band? A: Some Like It Hot
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays does the character Viola pose as a boy, Cesario? A: Twelfth Night
Q: Barry Humphries plays Dame Edna Everage, but which character does he plays as the Australian Cultural Attache? A: Sir Les Patterson
Q: Who plays the killer in the 1960 film Psycho where he dresses in his mother's clothes? A: Anthony Perkins
Q: Which character in the TV series MASH dresses as a woman in an attempt to be dismissed from the army? A: Klinger
Q: Which 1970 hit for the Kinks was about a young man's experience with a transvestite in a bar? A: Lola
Q: Which male actor played a female soap star in the film Tootsie? A: Dustin Hoffman.
Q: Which British comedian describes himself as an executive transvestite? A: Eddie Izzard
Q: The film Mrs Doubtfire, starring Robin Williams in the title role, was set in a Victorian property known as one of the painted ladies. In which city is this tourist attraction? A: San Francisco
Q: Who is the Celtic sun-god? A: Lugh
Q: What was renamed as BBC Radio 4 in 1967? A: BBC Home Service
Q: How many symphonies did Mozart compose? A: 41
Q: Who wrote Principia Mathematica, published in 1687? A: Isaac Newton
Q: What are the dry constituents of dry Martini? A: Gin and Vermouth
Q: In music, the B-52s were formed in which year? 1976, 1980 or 1984? A: 1976
Q: Who is the only player to have scored a hat-trick in the top four flights of the English leagues, in the FA Cup and League Cup, and at international level? A: Rob Earnshaw
Q: Who was the first player to be sent off in an FA Cup final at Wembley? A: Kevin Moran
Q: Which team hold the record for the highest aggregate win in the Champions League, beating Sporting Lisbon 12-1? A: Bayern Munich
Q: Who was the first goalkeepers to score a goal in the Premier League? A: Peter Schmeichel
Q: The Declaration of Arbroath was signed in which century? A: 14th
Q: Where in Scotland was the famous Irish manuscript The Book Of Kells illuminated? A: Iona
Q: Who was the last British monarch to have been born in Scotland? A: Charles I
Q: During which century was Sir Walter Scott born? A: 18th
Q: James IV was killed during which battle? A: Flodden Field
Q: Architect of the Battle Of Britain victory, Air Chief Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding was born in what borders town? A: Moffat
Q: In New York in 1890, William Kemmler became the first person to be executed by what method? A: Electric chair
Q: In 1960, which country became the first in the world to have a female Prime Minister? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What was the name of the first dog to orbit the earth? A: Laika
Q: French woman Isabelle Dinoire was the first person to receive a transplant of which body part in 2005? A: Face
Q: What was the world's first jet-driven airliner to enter commercial service? A: The Comet
Q: Situated on the north coast of Scotland, the UK's first fast-breeder nuclear reactor is situated where? A: Dounreay
Q: In 1983, Colin Pirchfork became the first criminal to be convicted for murder by the use of what evidence? A: DNA fingerprinting
Q: Born in 1978, what is the name of the UK's first "test tube baby"? A: Louise Brown
Q: Which Dutch airline merged with Air France in 2004? A: KLM
Q: If your suitcase had an airline luggage tag with the letters LAX, to which town or city would you be travelling? A: Los Angeles
Q: Before breaking up, how was the Union of Soviet Socialist Rebublics abbreviated in Russian, using the Russian Cyrillic alphabet? A: CCCP
Q: In which country does OPEC maintain its headquarters? A: Austria
Q: Who is the Minister of Magic in Harry Potter And The Philosopher's stone? A: Cornelius Fudge
Q: I AM LORD VOLDEMORT is an anagram of which character's name? A: Tom Marvolo Riddle
Q: Name the character played by Anthony Perkins in Hitchcock's 1960 movie, Psycho. A: Norman Bates
Q: Ming the Merciless is the arch-enemy of which comic book hero? A: Flash Gordon
Q: In which 1987 movie thriller did Glenn Close boil a bunny? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who is the arch-enemy of Inspector Gadget? A: Dr. Claw
Q: What name was given to the serial killer sought by Clarice Starling in Silence of the Lambs? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Uma Thurman plays which enemy of Batman in the 1997 movie Batman And Robin? A: Poison Ivy
Q: Which villainous soap character is played by John Altman? A: Nasty Nick Cotton
Q: Rene Belloq is the arch-enemy of which movie hero? A: Indiana Jones
Q: Which iconic movie villain was played by a wrestler with the professional name of Tosh Togo? A: Oddjob
Q: Which group take their name from the promoter (Bill Goode), and the DJ that first played their records (Bill Gates)? A: Bee Gees
Q: Which famous UK band took their name from an unemployment benefit form? A: UB40
Q: Which American band had hits with Bad Moon Rising and Proud Mary? A: Creedence Clearwater Revival
Q: Which band shares it's name with a type of foam used in horticulture? A: Oasis
Q: Which group had members with the christian names Jay, Merrill, Alan and Wayne? A: The Osmonds
Q: Which Australian rock band did not perform for a year after the death of their lead singer in 1997 by asphyxiation? A: INXS
Q: Which Jackson has starred in Star Wars, Pulp Fiction, and Snakes On A Plane? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: Thomas Jonathan Jackson was a confederate general during the American Civil War. By what name was he better known? A: Stonewall
Q: Who had a UK hit in 1979 with Is She Really Going Out With Him? A: Joe Jackson
Q: Which Jackson was an influential American abstract artist who died in 1956? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: Colin Jackson once held the world record in which athletics event? A: 110m hurdles
Q: What was the name of the character played by Kate Jackson in Charlie's Angels? A: Sabrina
Q: By what name is the day preceding the Christian fasting period of Lent commonly referred? A: Shrove Tuesday
Q: In which month is the Vernal Equinox in the northern hemisphere? A: March
Q: All Saints Day is celebrated on the first day of which month? A: November
Q: In France, which flower is given on May Day as a good luck charm? A: Lily of the valley
Q: What is the date of St George's Day? A: 23rd April
Q: Guy Fawkes Night on November 5th celebrates the discovery of the plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament?  In what year did this take place? A: 1605
Q: How is the date of the summer bank holiday determined in England and Wales? A: The last Monday in August
Q: Which classic of English literature sees the heroine marry a farm worker called Angel Clare? A: Tess Of The d'Urbervilles.
Q: The 1990s American TV series Angel was a spin-off from which other TV series? A: Buffy The Vampire Slayer
Q: The Angel tube station in London holds the European record for which piece of engineering? A: Longest escalator
Q: The 1980s BBC drama series Angels was set in what type of establishment? A: A hospital
Q: What nationality is golfer Angel Cabrera, winner of the U.S. Masters in 2009? A: Argentinian
Q: Who lives at 4 Paget Drive, Little Whinging? A: Harry Potter
Q: Which author created a fictional world that included Little Delving, Hardbottle and The Marrish? A: J. R. R. Tolkien
Q: Which family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which TV programme is set in Glenbogle, an estate in the Scottish highlands? A: Monarch Of The Glen
Q: Which TV comedy series featured a fictional property, with a sign featuring letters that had been re-arranged into anagrams such as Fatty Owls and Farty Towels? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: Pemberley is the country estate owned by Fitzwilliam Darcy in which Jane Austin novel? A: Pride and Prejudice
Q: Which novel first introduced Room 101? A: Nineteen Eighty Four
Q: By what name did Annie Mae Bullock become better known in the music world? A: Tina Turner
Q: How many blank tiles are there in a game of Scrabble? A: 2
Q: Who was head chef on the first series of ITV's Hell's Kitchen? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: In which city is the film Don't Look Now set? A: Venice
Q: Where do locusts lay their eggs? A: In sand
Q: What name is given to the nesting site of penguins? A: Rookery
Q: Manzanilla is a variety of what type of alcoholic drink? A: Sherry
Q: The geographic region of Patagonia is situated between which two South American countries ? A: Argentina and Chile
Q: Which South American country will host the 2014 football World Cup ? A: Brazil
Q: Who reached No.1 in the UK charts in 1977 with 'Don't cry for me, Argentina ' ? A: Julie Covington
Q: Bolivia gained independance in 1825 - from which European country ? A: Spain
Q: Which fictional character from children's literature came from Darkest Peru ? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What is the capital of Venezuela ? A: Caracas
Q: Which ocean seperates the East coast of South America from the West coast of Africa ? A: Atlantic
Q: Who was the President of Argentina at the time of the Falklands invasion in 1982 ? A: General Galtieri
Q: What is the name of the woman Hugh Grant was caught performing a lewd act with on Sunset Boulevard in 1995? A: Divine Brown
Q: Who was vilified by the press for dangling his youngest son over the edge of a balcony? A: Michael Jackson
Q: From which shop on Fifth Avenue did Winona Ryder get caught shoplifting in 2002? A: Saks
Q: What is the name of the adopted daughter of Mia Farrow who married her mother's former long-term lover? A: Soon-Yi
Q: Which Oscar winner once pled guilty to charges of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor and, after a 42 day psychiatric evaluation, fled to France? A: Roman Polanski
Q: Nicknamed the sweater girl, which famous actress's daughter, Cheryl, killed her mother's mob-linked boyfriend Johnny Stompanato? A: Lana Turner's
Q: Which Oscar winning actress was denounced by Senator Edwin C. Johnson as a powerful influence for evil after she had an affair with and left her husband for Roberto Rossellini? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: Which actor, who has worked for Governor Schwarzenegger, was at the centre of a sex tape scandal involving a 16-year-old back in 1988? A: Rob Lowe
Q: In the painting called Self Portrait With Bandaged Ear by Van Gogh, is Van Gogh's left ear or right ear bandaged? A: Left
Q: Where in the human body would you find the scaphoid bone? A: In the wrist
Q: Which organ of the human body does hepatitis affect? A: Liver
Q: How many muscles are there in total in an average human's set of fingers? A: None
Q: How many pairs of chromosomes are there in the human body? A: 23
Q: What common name is given to those who suffer from kyphosis? A: Hunchback
Q: What name is given to the only muscle in the human body that is only attached at one end? A: The tongue
Q: Where does Homer Simpson work? A: Springfield Nuclear Power Plant
Q: What is the name of the bulldog who featured in the Tom and Jerry cartoons? A: Spike
Q: What is the name of the police officer whose beat includes the alley where Top Cat and his gang live? A: Officer Dibble
Q: Mortimer was the original name for which famous cartoon mouse? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: What is the name of the smart suited man who regularly visits a magic costume shop for adventure? A: Mr Benn
Q: Which cartoon characters were known as heroes in a half shell? A: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Q: Which killer lived at 186 Fleet Street and gave the bodies of his victims to Mrs Lovett for her to make meat pies with? A: Sweeney Todd
Q: Patrick Bateman is a serial killer and businessman in which novel by Brett Easton Ellis? A: American Psycho
Q: Who killed at least 17 men and boys before being arrested in Milwaukee in 1991? A: Jeffery Dahmer
Q: Which killer was executed by electric chair in January 1989 after confessing to the murder of around 30 young women during the 1970s, mostly by bludgeoning and strangling? A: Ted Bundy
Q: What nickname was given to the serial killer who killed and dismembered women in the Whitechapel area of London during the 1880s? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: In the film Silence Of The Lambs what is the nickname given to the killer Jame Gumb who Agent Starling is persuing with the help of Hannibal Lecter? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Which serial killer lived at 10 Rillington Place? A: John Christie
Q: What is the real name of the Yorkshire Ripper, convicted in 1981 of the murder of 13 people? A: Peter Sutcliffe
Q: Two is the only even prime number? A: True
Q: The African Rhinoceros has two horns on its head? A: True
Q: Elvis Presley was a black belt in Karate? A: True
Q: A rat can survive longer without water than a camel? A: True
Q: Charlie Chaplin once won first prize in a Charlie Chaplin look-a-like contest? A: False
Q: Rubies and Sapphires are exactly alike except in colour? A: True
Q: Donald Duck's middle name is Fauntelroy? A: True
Q: Which actor starred in the movie School Of Rock? A: Jack Black
Q: In what decade rom was the school leaving age raised from 15 to 16? A: 1970s
Q: Beauty School Drop Out is a song from which movie? A: Grease
Q: What was the name of the school at which Ken Barlow was a teacher in the TV soap opera Coronation Street? A: Weatherfield Comprehensive
Q: Teacher Gordon Sumner went on to become the lead singer of a top band and then have a successful solo recording artist under what name? A: Sting
Q: Which politician was nicknamed the milk snatcher after stopping free milk in schools? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: The book Tom Brown's School Days is set in which school? A: Rugby
Q: Who won a gold medal in the 100 metres breaststroke at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow? A: Duncan Goodhew
Q: Linford Christie won a gold medal representing Great Britain in the 100 metres at the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, but what country was he born in? A: Jamaica
Q: Who won the gold medal in the heptathlon in the 2000 Olympics? A: Denise Lewis
Q: What colour medal did Amir Khan win in the lightweight boxing tournament at the 2004 Olympics? A: Silver
Q: Who won a silver medal in the men's javelin event at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta? A: Steve Backley
Q: Sean Kerly, Imran Sherwani and Ian Taylor were all members of Great Britain's gold-medal winning team in the 1988 Olympics in Seoul. In what sport? A: Hockey
Q: If Freddie Mercury was on vocals, Brian May was on lead guitar, and Roger Taylor was on drums, who was on bass guitar? A: John Deacon
Q: If the US states that border Canada from west to east are Washington, Idaho, Montana, and North Dakota, what comes next? A: Minnesota
Q: If 11 is 3, 100 is 4, 101 is 5, what is 1001? A: 9
Q: If Winston Churchill was the first post war Prime Minister, Clement Atlee was second, Churchill third, and Anthony Eden fourth, who was 5th? A: Harold McMillan
Q: If Dr. No was first, From Russia With Love was second, and Goldfinger was third, what was fourth? A: Thunderball
Q: If Elton John has had 7, ABBA have had 9, and Cliff Richard has had 14, who has had the most with 21? A: Elvis Presley
Q: If Finland won in 2006, Serbia in 2007, and Russia in 2008, who won in May 2009? A: Norway
Q: If the equator crosses Africa's West coast in the country of Gabon, in which country does it cross the East coast? A: Somalia
Q: If this character was played by Michael Keaton in 1989, Val Kilmer in 1995, and George Clooney in 1997, who played him in 2008? A: Christian Bale
Q: The band T'Pau took their name from a character in which TV series? A: Star Trek.
Q: What name is given to abdominal thrusts performed on a choking victim, which is named after the American physician to whom it is credited? A: Heimlich manoeuvre.
Q: The band Kaiser Chiefs took their name from a football club in which country? A: South Africa.
Q: Which British band named themselves after the villain from the sci-fi movie Barbarella? A: Duran Duran.
Q: The author of Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy had an asteroid named after him after he died in 2001. What was his name? A: Douglas Adams.
Q: What country is home to Kenai Fjords National Park? A: USA
Q: What fruit is nicknamed the Alligator Pear? A: Avocado
Q: What is the name of the clockwork device used by pianists to measure time? A: Metronome
Q: When Elisha Graves Otis invented it, he called it the safety hoist. What do we call it now? A: The elevator
Q: Lanolin comes from what animal? A: Sheep
Q: Written by Ernest Hemingway, what is the subject of the 1932 non-fiction book Death In The Afternoon? A: Bull-fighting
Q: The Thirty Years' War was finally ended in 1648 with what peace treaty? A: Peace of Westphalia
Q: What nationality is Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot? A: Belgian
Q: Which country was the only original member of OPEC outside of the Middle East? A: Venezuela
Q: Name any year that Leonardo Da Vinci was alive. A: 1452 - 1519
Q: How were Fleegle, Bingo, Drooper and Snork better known collectively on TV? A: The banana splits
Q: What is the nickname of Bournemouth F.C.? A: The Cherries
Q: What is the longest river in South Africa? A: The Orange River
Q: Tom Joad was the main character in which John Steinbeck novel? A: The Grapes Of Wrath
Q: What famous song is Huckleberry Hound best known for singing? A: My Darling Clementine
Q: What does a silkworm feed on? A: Mulberries
Q: The Smurfs are described as being how tall? A: Three apples high
Q: What is the name of Liverpool's main railway station? A: Lime Street
Q: What is the name of the John Lennon memorial garden in Central Park, New York? A: Strawberry Fields
Q: Who is the oldest of Prince Andrew's daughters? A: Princess Beatrice
Q: Who was the last monarch of England only? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Commissioned by Queen Victoria in memory of her husband, in which Royal park would you find the Albert Memorial? A: Kensington Gardens
Q: Which royal establishment was moved from London to Llantrisant in South Wales in 1968? A: The Royal Mint
Q: What event takes place on the official birthday of the sovereign? A: Trooping the Colour
Q: What is the name of the Scottish home of the British Royal Family? A: Balmoral Castle
Q: What temperature is the same in Celsius as it is in Fahrenheit? A: -40 degrees
Q: Which subterranean animal shares its name with a measurement of substance? A: Mole
Q: What is the name of the pigment that makes leaves green? A: Chlorophyll
Q: How many dwarf planets are there in our solar system? A: Five
Q: Absolute zero is a temperature defined as 0 on what scale? A: The Kelvin scale
Q: Oology is the study of what? A: Eggs
Q: Nephrology is the study of which organs? A: Kidneys
Q: Which famous building has the address of 1600 Pennysylvania Avenue? A: The White House
Q: Which public service is located near Victoria Station in London at 10 Broadway? A: New Scotland Yard
Q: Which international charity is registered at John Smith Drive, Cowley, Oxford? A: OXFAM
Q: Which public service moved from Bracknell in Berkshire, to Exeter in Devon in 2003? A: The met office
Q: Which historic event would you associate with Pudding Lane in London? A: The Great Fire of London
Q: Which English Victorian author was born in 1812 in Old Commercial Rd, Landport, Portsmouth? A: Charles Dickens
Q: The postal address of which famous building is simply, PO Box 995, Kentucky, USA? A: Fort Knox
Q: Albany and Camp Hill are two of the three prisons outside Newport on the Isle of Wight. What is the third? A: Parkhurst
Q: Who killed John F Kennedy? A: Lee Harvey Oswald
Q: Who killed Martin Luther King? A: James Earl Ray
Q: Name the follow up to the Clint Eastwood film 'Every Which Way But Loose'. A: Any Which Way You Can
Q: In whch Robert Di Nero film would you hear the line You Talking To Me? A: Taxi Driver
Q: Which seaside resort is the setting for the Only Fools And Horses 'Jolly Boys Outing'? A: Margate
Q: Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callaghan attempted to clean up the streets of which US City? A: San Francisco
Q: Dr Egon Spengler appears in which film? A: Ghostbusters
Q: Richard Harris plays which charcter in the Harry Potter films? A: Professor Dumbledore
Q: In which year was the film Casablanca premiered? A: 1942
Q: Comedian Steve Coogan provided the voice for which animal in the 1996 film Wind In The Willows? A: Mole
Q: How many ounces are there in a pound? A: 16
Q: How many pints are there in a gallon? A: 8
Q: How many yards are there in a mile? A: 1,760
Q: How many feet are there in a fathom? A: 6
Q: How many yards are there in a chain? A: 22
Q: How many gallons are there in a firkin? A: 9
Q: How many sheets of paper are there in a quire? A: 24
Q: How many noggings are there in a pint? A: 4
Q: Who won a Silver medal in the 1988 Olympic Games for 110m hurdles? A: Colin Jackson
Q: The Neverland Ranch is in which US state? A: California
Q: Which Jackson has starred in Star Wars and Pulp Fiction? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: Which song written by Michael Jackson & Lionel Ritchie was recorded by a group of 45 singers? A: We are the World
Q: Which of Michael Jackson's singles spent the longest at number one in the UK? A: Earth Song
Q: Name the Jackson who is a judge on American Idol? A: Randy
Q: In 1986 Jackson signed a $15 million deal with which company - it was the largest ever endorsement for product promotion? A: Pepsi
Q: Prince & Prince Michael II are two of Jackson's children, name the third? A: Paris
Q: Which artist was known as Jack the Dripper' because of his technique of dripping & pouring paint onto a canvas? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: Whose 'wings are like a shield of steel'? A: Batfink's
Q: Phil Collins won an Oscar for Best Original Song for which Disney film? A: Tarzan
Q: In the Disney cartoon what was the name of The Little Mermaid? A: Ariel
Q: In the Lion King, what was the name of Simba's father? A: Mufasa
Q: The childrens TV character Prince Adam of Eternia is better known by what name? A: He-Man
Q: What is Paddington Bear's favourite snack? A: Marmalade Sandwiches
Q: Who was described as an old, saggy cloth cat, baggy, and a bit loose at the seams? A: Bagpuss
Q: Which 1980s cartoon was based on a classic story written by Alexandre Dumas? A: Dogtanian And The Three Muskehounds
Q: Who had Wings like a shield of steel? A: Batfink
Q: Who were the two voice artists of the cartoon characters Dangermouse and his sidekick Penfold? A: David Jason and Terry Scott
Q: What was the name of SuperTed's sidekick? A: Spotty
Q: Which country produces the wine Vinho Verdi? A: Portugal
Q: What are the two main ingredients of Hollandaise sauce? A: Egg yolks and butter
Q: Skets, mtrios, and glyks are three different types of Greek what? A: Coffee
Q: Half the world's pistachio nuts are grown in which country? A: Iran
Q: What is the name of the Irish whiskey illicitly made from barley? A: Poteen
Q: In which European country did red onions originate? A: Italy
Q: Apart from Del Boy, Rodney and Grandad, which other regular character appeared in the first ever episode? Boycie, Mickey Pearce or Trigger? A: Trigger
Q: What was the name of the episode in which Rodney first met Cassandra? A: Yuppy Love
Q: What was the nickname of Rodney's real dad? A: Freddie The Frog
Q: In which episode did Del Boy first meet Raquel? A: Dates
Q: Who played Aunt Renee in The Frogs Legacy? A: Joan Sims
Q: Before the most recent Christmas specials, how may episodes were there in which neither Uncle Albert or Grandad appeared? None, two or nine? A: Two
Q: Which famous actor played Roy Slater? A: Jim Broadbent
Q: At which stadium do Scotland play their home football matches? A: Hampden Park
Q: Which English county town stands on the river Lune? A: Lancaster
Q: Which cowboy showman's real name was Willaim Cody? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Howard Brown fronted which bank's tv adverts until 2008? A: Halifax
Q: Which sci-fi series was the basis of the film Serenity and created by Buffy creator Joss Wheadon? A: Firefly
Q: Which fruit grows on palm trees? A: Dates
Q: What is the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii? A: Honolulu
Q: Saint Lucia is an island holiday destination in which sea? A: The Caribbean Sea
Q: Which Prince featured in the title of the Chronicles Of Narnia film released in the summer of 2008? A: Prince Caspian
Q: On a beach, what colours are the flags denoting a lifeguard area? A: Red and Yellow
Q: The use of what garden equipment is sometimes banned during particularily hot summers? A: Hosepipe
Q: Complete the name of this popular ice cream flavour: Rum and _____? A: Raisin
Q: Which actress played Summer in the TV show The OC? A: Rachel Bilson
Q: In which month does midsummer's day occur? A: June
Q: How many players compete in a professional beach volleyball game? A: Two
Q: Soleil means sun in which language? A: French
Q: The Costa del Sol is a region of which country? A: Spain
Q: Who had a summer hit in 2008 with Sweet About Me? A: Gabriella Cilmi
Q: In a hit film from the summer of 2008, Robert Downey Jr. played a man made of what? A: Iron
Q: What type of summer clothing is an espadrille? A: A Shoe
Q: Which London football team earned the nickname the crazy gang? A: Wimbeldon
Q: Which player was involved in Britain's first million pound transfer? A: Trevor Francis
Q: Who did Alan Shearer play for before he joined Blackburn Rovers? A: Southampton
Q: Who joined Liverpool from Nottingham Forest for over 8 million in 1995? A: Stan Collymore
Q: Which team used to play their home matches at Filbert Street? A: Leicester City
Q: Which football team are nicknamed the tractor boys? A: Ipswich Town
Q: Who was the manager of Portsmouth before Paul Hart took over? A: Tony Adams
Q: In which African country was Michael Essien born? A: Ghana
Q: Who provided the voices for the animals in Animal Magic? A: Johnny Morris
Q: Which children's TV show started with the words Here is a box, a musical box, wound up and ready to play? A: Camberwick Green
Q: Which character was dressed as a jester in Rentaghost? A: Timothy Claypole
Q: When Burgess Meredith was the special guest villain in Batman, which character did he play? A: The Penguin
Q: Gerry Anderson's Stingray told about the adventures of Troy Tempest. Which organisation did Troy Tempest work for? A: WASP
Q: If Dill was a dog, what type of animal was Parsley? A: A lion
Q: Who was the artist on the TV series Vision On? A: Tony Hart
Q: Who was the companion of Crystal Tipps? A: Alistair
Q: Brinsley Forde who went on to become the lead singer of Aswad starred in which children's TV series of the 1970s? A: Here Come The Double Deckers
Q: What is the unofficial national anthem of Australia? A: Waltzing Matilda
Q: Which leader was painted warts and all? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: Which royal house succeeded the Tudors? A: Stuart
Q: Name the space shuttle that exploded in 1986 A: Challenger
Q: What was William Blake's most famous poem? A: The Tiger
Q: Ross Kemp plays which Eastenders character? A: Grant Mitchell
Q: In the Jungle Book, what animal was Bagheera? A: Black Panther
Q: Which British statesman's ancestral home was Blenheim Palace? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Phil Collins played drums with which band? A: Genesis
Q: Who was the last woman executed in the UK? A: Ruth Ellis
Q: What links Cheryl Cole, Dannii Minogue, and Sharon Osbourne? A: X-Factor judges
Q: Epiphany is known by what other name in some countries? A: Three Kings Day
Q: Who founded ChildLine and presented That's Life? A: Esther Rantzen
Q: Which three characters have advertised Kellogs Rice Krispies since 1903? A: Snap, Crackle and Pop
Q: Which month gets its name from the Latin word for eight? A: October
Q: What type of snake is a sidewinder? A: Rattlesnake
Q: What was the name of Britney Spears` first hit single? A: Baby One More Time
Q: What is the name of the BBC science and philosophy documentary series that has produced more than 1000 episodes since it began in 1964? A: Horizon
Q: What was Hephaestus the Greek God of? A: Fire
Q: What is the first book of the Bible attributed to a prophet? A: Joshua
Q: Prior to his death in 1976 what was John Wayne's last film? A: The Shootist
Q: Which famous Indian became known as Rebecca Rolfe and died in Gravesend in Kent? A: Pocahontas
Q: What was the name of the Cartwright's ranch in Bonanza? A: Ponderosa
Q: Which Indian tribe did Sitting Bull belong to? A: Sioux
Q: What started at Fort Sumter in April 1861? A: American Civil War
Q: In which territory, now US state, was the Battle of Little Bighorn fought? A: Montana
Q: Known as "The Singing Cowboy" who had his biggest hit record with the original recording of "Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer"? A: Gene Autry
Q: In James Fenimore Cooper's classic story, how is the character Uncas referred to in the novel's title? A: The Last of the Mohicans
Q: Who succeeded General Joseph Johnston as the Commander of the Army of Northern Virginia? A: Robert E Lee
Q: The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral took place in which city? A: Tombstone
Q: Which country is situated on the west coast of Africa between Ghana and Liberia? A: IVORY coast
Q: What was the title of the Janis Joplin album released in 1971, four months after her death? A: PEARL
Q: What is the most populated country in the world? A: CHINA
Q: What song has provided hit singles for the Rolling Stones, Melanie and Rod Stewart? A: RUBY Tuesday
Q: Which alloy is created using copper and tin? A: BRONZE
Q: Which 1989 film starred Julia Roberts and was mainly set in a beauty salon run by a character played by Dolly Parton? A: STEEL Magnolias
Q: The great fish moved silently through the night water, propelled by short sweeps of its crescent tail. A: Jaws
Q: Marley was dead to begin with A: A Christmas Carol
Q: Last night I dreamed I went to Mandalay again. A: Rebecca
Q: It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. A: A Tale of Two Cities
Q: If you want to find Cherry Tree Lane, all you have to do is ask the policeman at the cross roads A: Mary Poppins
Q: Mr and Mrs Dursley of number four, privet Drive, were proud to say they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. A: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Q: When shall we three meet again, in thunder, lightning or in rain A: Macbeth
Q: What is the name of the snake killing mongoose in the stories by Rudyard Kipling? A: Riki Tiki Tavi
Q: How many sheets of paper are there in one ream? A: 500
Q: How many metres are there in a mile? 1609, 1659 or 1709? A: 1609
Q: According to the Bible, who was 969 years old when he died? A: Methuselah
Q: What is the largest planet in our universe? A: Jupiter
Q: By what name is Reginald Dwight better known? A: Elton John
Q: Which golfer is nicknamed The Great White Shark'? A: Greg Norman
Q: The Sharks are a British Basketball team currently playing in the British Basketball League. In which city are they based? A: Sheffield
Q: In the 2004 CGI film Shark Tale, which actor provides the voice for the main character, Oscar? A: Will Smith
Q: What is measured with a Snodgrass grathodynamometer? A: The strength of shark bites
Q: What are the two gangs in the musical West Side Story? A: The Sharks and the Jets
Q: What sport do the Orlando Sharks play? A: (Indoor) Soccer
Q: The 1993 movie Free Willy was centred around what type of animal? A: Killer Whale (Orca).
Q: Steamboat Willie was a 1928 Walt Disney cartoon with Mickey Mouse, but the title was a parody of Steamboat Bill Jr, a full length silent comedy of the same year which starred which famous deadpan comedy great? A: Buster Keaton
Q: In the 1971 movie Charlie And The Chocolate Factory, Willy Wonka is played by Gene Wilder. Who plays him in the 2005 film Charlie And The Chocolate Factory? A: Johnny Depp
Q: In which TV series would you find the character Groundskeeper Willy? A: The Simpsons
Q: What sort of animal was World Cup Willie, the mascot for the 1966 World Cup? A: A lion
Q: What is the surname of the jockey with the first name Willy who won the Kentucky Derby four times? A: Shoemaker
Q: Which Willy wrote the plays Educating Rita and Shirley Valentine? A: Willy Russell
Q: Willie John McBride is a name associated with which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: Which chemical element has the lowest boiling point? A: Helium
Q: Which element is associated with old lace? A: Arsenic
Q: Which element is most common in the human body? A: Oxygen 65%
Q: Which element, formed when seawater comes into contact with electricity, was responsible for the death of many Submariners during the Second World War? A: Chlorine
Q: Which element is the best conductor of electricity? A: Silver
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol S? A: Sulpher
Q: How is DiHydrogen Oxide better known? A: Water
Q: Which two elements would you find at the centre of the Earth? A: Iron and Nickel
Q: Which element was known as the King of Metals? A: Gold
Q: Mary Phelps Jacob designed which item of clothing in 1914? A: The Bra
Q: Born in Gibraltar, which designer was named British Designer of the Year in 1987, 1994 and 1995? A: John Galliano
Q: What is the name of Vivienne Westwood's clothes shop at 430 King's Road where she sells her Anglomania label? A: World's End
Q: Which pop singer has had perfumes called Curious, Fantasy, Midnight Fantasy, Hidden Fantasy  and Circus Fantasy? A: Britney Spears
Q: Which Canadian model dated french goalkeeper Fabien Barthez and has appeared in the music videos for George Michael's songs Freedom '90 and Too Funky? A: Linda Evangelista
Q: In which country was designer Oscar de la Renta born? A: The Dominican Republic
Q: In which TV series might Lieutenant Green say Spectrum is green? A: Captain Scarlet
Q: The Green Bay Packers play which sport? A: American football
Q: Eva Green played Bond girl Vesper Lynd in which film? A: Casino Royale
Q: Green Green Grass Of Home was a UK number one hit single for which singer? A: Tom Jones
Q: Greenland is an autonomous constituant country within which European kingdom? A: Denmark
Q: In Monopoly, the green coloured properties are Regent Street, Oxford Street and what else? A: Bond Street
Q: Which Shakespeare refers to jealousy as the green eyed monster? A: Othello
Q: What was the title of Doctor And The Medics only number one hit single? A: Spirit In The Sky
Q: Who wrote Dr Finlay's Casebook? A: AJ Cronin
Q: Which part of your body would a dermatologist be interested in? A: Skin
Q: In 1967, Louis Washkansky became the first person to receive what? A: A human heart transplant
Q: Which famous Italian sportsman is nicknamed the doctor? A: Valentino Rossi
Q: On which Beatles album does the song Dr Robert appear? A: Revolver
Q: The Bicycle manufacturers Trek, Giant and Specialized come from which country ? A: U.S.A.
Q: Which throwing event does not feature in the Decathlon ? A: Hammer
Q: Which car manufacturer did Colin McRae win his first WRC title ? A: Subaru
Q: Which county did WG grace play cricket for ? A: Gloucester
Q: Which golfer has won the most PGA tour titles ? A: Sam Snead
Q: Which presenter was sacked in 1999 following media reports that he had taken cocaine? A: Richard Bacon
Q: Who wrote and performed the signature tune from 1979 to 1989. A: Mike Oldfield.
Q: In 2007, contoversy surrounded the naming of a new pet, when "Cookie" was the most popular vote, but staff chose "Socks" instead. What was the animal? A: A kitten.
Q: Anthea Turner presented Blue Peter in 1992. She is currently married to Grant Bovey, but she was first married to a Radio 1 DJ from 1990-98. Who was he? A: Peter Powell
Q: Which artist originally designed the logo and badge, and appeared on numerous other children's TV programmes until 2001. A: Tony Hart.
Q: What word can be a noun meaning an employer or supervisor, an adjective meaning first-rate or top notch and the name of a guitar effects pedal manufacturer? A: Boss
Q: Which golfer, born in Worksop, Nottinghamshire, finished 3rd at the US Open in 2008? A: Lee Westwood
Q: Which singer rose to fame as a member of the boy band Dream Street before voicing Theodore in the Chimpunks movies? A: Jesse McCartney
Q: What was the primary tank used by the United States in World War 2? A: M4 Sherman
Q: In Harry Enfield's Kevin the teenager sketches, what is the name of Kevin's best friend, played by Kathy Burke? A: Perry
Q: Who played guitar for Genesis from 1970 to 1977, before going on to form Supergroup GTR with Steve Howe from Yes? A: Steve Hackett
Q: What is the name given to the fur of a polecat? A: Fitch
Q: Chelsea won the 2009 FA Cup final 2-1.  Who were the beaten finalists? A: Everton
Q: Who win Celebrity Big Brother in 2009? A: Ulrika Jonsson
Q: Where was the first Ashes test of 2009 played? A: Cardiff
Q: In which round of Wimbledon in 2009 was Andy Murray knocked out? A: Semi Final
Q: Who was elected as the Speaker of the House of Commons following the resignation of Michael Martin in June 2009? A: John Bercow
Q: Barack Obama was sworn in as Us President on 20 January 2009.  Who was sworn in as Vice President? A: Joe Biden
Q: In which month of 2009 did Michael Jackson die? A: June
Q: What is couscous made from? A: Semolina
Q: Claret wine is produced in the region surrounding which French city? A: Bordeaux
Q: What type of food is focaccia? A: (Italian) bread
Q: What is the predominant flavour of fennel? A: Aniseed
Q: Which spirit is used in a Daiquiri cocktail? A: Dark rum
Q: In the kitchen, what would a mandolin be used for? A: Slicing
Q: What is the dish of stuffed vine leaves called? A: Dolmas
Q: What type of meat is used in moussaka? A: Lamb
Q: Which weekday TV programme is hosted by Adrian Chiles and Christine Bleakely? A: The One Show
Q: Which group sung the 1997 Eurovision Song Contest winning Love Shine A Light? A: Katrina and the Waves
Q: Located in Yorkshire, what are Drax and Eggborough? A: Power Stations
Q: What was the profession of Blackbeard, who operated in the Caribbean Sea in the 18th Century? A: Pirate
Q: Which country is bordered by France, Belgium and Germany? A: Luxembourg
Q: How many times has Italy won the soccer World Cup? A: Four
Q: In the first series of the Esure Insurance TV adverts, Michael Winner's famous quote was Calm down dear, it's only a what? A: Commercial
Q: Who had a hit in 1967 with The Last Waltz? A: Engelbert Humperdinck
Q: In 1958, King Faisal ll was murdered at 23 years old. He was the last King of which country? A: Iraq
Q: In May 2009, Millvina Dean died aged 97. She was the last survivor of which historic event? A: The sinking of the Titanic
Q: Who starred as Hawkeye in the 1992 film Last Of The Mohicans? A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: Who was the last surviving member of the Rat Pack, who died October 2007? A: Joey Bishop
Q: December 1991 saw the last commercial flight of which international airline? A: Pan Am
Q: Who writes Last Of The Summer Wine? A: Roy Clarke
Q: The last British Governor of Hong Kong, Chris Patten, stepped down in 1997, but which country stood down in the neighbouring island of Macau 2 years later? A: Portugal
Q: Who starred as the Last Action Hero? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: What was his name of the last surviving British veteran of World War I, who died in July 2009 at the age of 111? A: Harry Patch
Q: In what year was the winter Olympics held for the first time so as not to coincide with the summer Olympics? A: 1994
Q: Which way do long track speed skaters skate round the rink, clockwise or anti clockwise? A: Anti clockwise
Q: What was the title of the music used by Torvill & Dean for their free dance at the 1994 Lillehammer games? A: Lets face the music and dance
Q: What size is an Olympic sized ice rink used for figure skating and ice hockey? Is it 25x50 metres, 27.5x50 metres, or 30x60 metres? A: 30x60 metres
Q: Which country will host the 2014 winter Olympics? A: Russia
Q: Who said Either this guy's dead or my watch has stopped? A: Groucho Marx
Q: Which metal do you get from Hematite? A: Iron
Q: Augusta is the state capital of which US state? A: Maine
Q: In the oringinal Star Trek what was Captain James Kirk's middle name? A: Tiberius
Q: Who was Captain of the Titanic on her maiden voyage? A: Edward J. Smith
Q: Name the two female characters in Scooby Doo? A: Daphne and Velma
Q: Margarita Cansino is the real name of which actress, born in 1918? A: Rita Hayworth
Q: In the film `Who Framed Roger Rabbit`, what is the first name of Roger`s wife? A: Jessica
Q: Who sung the theme tune for the film `Goldeneye`? A: Tina Turner
Q: Who is the current Chancellor of Germany? A: Angela Merkel
Q: Bill Clinton was in trouble for "not having sexual relations with that woman" - who was that woman? A: Monica Lewinsky
Q: Which actress starred in Speed? A: Sandra Bullock
Q: What is the title of the UK hit song originally by The Tokens & later by Tight Fit? A: The Lion Sleeps Tonight
Q: Which American golfer wore a red shirt during the final round of tournaments, a link to his college days at Stanford and a colour he believes symbolizes aggression and assertiveness? A: Tiger Woods
Q: What bird is the national symbol of the USA? A: Bald Eagle
Q: What species of wasp can reach up to 55 mm (2.2 in) in length? A: Hornet
Q: Which singer/songwriter was married to record producer & songwriter Tony Hatch? A: Jackie Trent
Q: Which football club became the first in the 20th century to achieve the League and FA Cup Double, winning both competitions in the 196061 season? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: On TV, who played the long suffering wife of Alf Garnett in Till Death Us Do Part? A: Dandy Nichols
Q: Which popular puppet show of the 80s and 90s specialised in political satire? A: Spitting Image.
Q: Which hand puppet would you associate with Shari Lewis? A: Lamb chop.
Q: Who was Dr Bunsen Honeydew's Muppet assistant, who seemed to get the worst of their experiments? A: Beaker.
Q: Wayland Flowers was an American puppeteer, who had an outragious satirical old woman puppet, aimed at an adult audience, who would be dressed in evening attire and diamonds. Name her. A: Madame.
Q: Who originally devised and presented Sooty on TV in the 1950s? A: Harry Corbett.
Q: According to the nursery rhyme Jack And Jill, Jack bound his head with which two items? A: Vinegar and brown paper
Q: Which bands albums include The Works, The Miracle and Made In Heaven? A: Queen
Q: What is the name of the base that the puppets of International Rescue use? A: Tracy Island
Q: What make of gun did Clint Eastwood use in the Dirty Harry films? A: Magnum
Q: By what name is Stanley Burrell better known in the music world? A: MC Hammer
Q: Who presented the National Lottery quiz show Jet Set? A: Eamonn Holmes
Q: Which two brothers had hits with Cathy's Clown and Wake Up Little Susie? A: The Everley Brothers
Q: What are the first names of the two Wild West outlaws who were in the James-Younger gang? A: Jesse and Frank James
Q: Who are the brothers credited with building the world's first successful airplane? A: The Wright Brothers
Q: Which two brothers appeared together in the 1996 FA Cup playing for Manchester United? A: Gary and Phil Neville
Q: German Brothers Wilhelm and Jacob wrote which book in 1812? A: Grimms Fairy Tales
Q: What is surname of the singing brothers - Alan, Wayne, Merrill, Jay, Donny and Jimmy? A: Osmond
Q: Which two Lincolnshire brothers are attributed with the Methodist movement? A: John and Charles Wesley
Q: What is the name of the author of the Sherlock Holmes books? A: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: What is Sherlock Holmes' exact address? A: 221b Baker Street
Q: In which magazine were the Sherlock Holmes mysteries first published? A: The Strand
Q: What is the name of Sherlock Holmes' most notorious arch enemy? A: Professor James Moriarty
Q: What is the name of Sherlock Holmes' brother? A: Mycroft
Q: What phrase, commonly associated with Holmes, does not actually appear in any of the books? A: Elementary, my dear Watson
Q: The Danube flows into which Sea? A: Black Sea
Q: The Amazon flows through how many countries? A: Seven
Q: The Indus predominately flows through which country? A: Pakistan
Q: Which major river empties into the Gulf of Guinea? A: Niger
Q: The Volga flows into which sea? A: Caspian Sea
Q: Which river originates in China and empties in the South China Sea? A: The Mekong
Q: Which river originates in British Columbia, Canada, and empties into the Bering Sea A: The Yukon
Q: In which Arnold Schwarzenegger movie does he fight an invisible alien creature? A: Predator.
Q: In which 2004 animated Pixar movie does Violet have powers of invisibility? A: The Incredibles.
Q: In which James Bond film does he drive an invisible car? A: Die Another Day.
Q: Which race had a cloaking device in Star Trek? A: Romulans.
Q: Alec Baldwin played which invisible superhero in a 1994 movie? A: The Shadow.
Q: Superhero Susan Storm had powers of invisibility. Of which group was she a member? A: Fantastic Four.
Q: The 1975 TV series The Invisible Man starred which actor, who also appeared in Colditz in the same year? A: David McCallum.
Q: In which 2000 science fiction film did Kevin Bacon become invisible? A: Hollow Man.
Q: Rodney Skinner was an invisible thief in which 2003 superhero movie? A: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.
Q: What is the name of Charlie Brown's dog? A: Snoopy.
Q: What is the name of the dog in The Simpsons? A: Santas Little Helper.
Q: What was the name of the 1963 Disney live action movie, where 3 animals ventured to get themselves home? A: The Incredible Journey.
Q: What was the name of Robbie Jackson's dog in Eastenders? A: Wellard.
Q: What was the name of the dog in Enid Blighton's Famous Five books? A: Timmy.
Q: In 1992 Neil Kinnock lost the general election and was replaced as leader of the Labour party by whom? A: John Smith
Q: Having returned from a four nation summit in Guadeloupe during the winter of January 1979, who was responsible for the Sun headline 'Crisis, what crisis?'? A: James Callaghan
Q: Churchill went to the country in the summer of 1945 but was defeated by which Labour leader? A: Clement Atlee
Q: Satchi and Satchi were responsible for the 1979 Conservative advertising campaign. The most famous poster being of a line of people queing at the job centre, with what famous strap line? A: Labour isn't Working
Q: Before going on to win the 1964 election, who made the 'white heat of technology' speech to their party conference? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which olympic cyclist was nicknamed The Flying Scotsman A: Graeme Obree
Q: Which former World Darts Champion was given the nickname 'The Bronze Adonis'? A: Steve Beaton
Q: Which Golfer is known as 'Mrs Doubtfire'? A: Colin Montgomerie
Q: Which Boxer was known as 'The Brockton Blockbuster' A: Rocky Marciano
Q: Which olympic swimmer was known as 'Eric the Eel'? A: Eric Moussambani
Q: Which footballer was given the name 'El Pibe de Oro' (The Golden Boy)? A: Diego Maradona
Q: Willie John McBride is associated with which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: What type of animal was World Cup Willie, the 1966 Football World Cup mascot? A: Lion
Q: In which TV show would you find the character Groundskeeper Willie? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which band had a UK number four hit in June 1972 with Little Willy? A: The Sweet
Q: Which Willie, satirist and co-founder of Private Eye, died on 11th December 1996? A: Willie Rushton
Q: In the 1971 film Willy Wonka was played by Gene Wilder, but who played him in the 2005 re-make Charlie And The Chocolate Facory? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Which Guns n Roses song from the album Appetite For Destruction begins: Your daddy works in porno now that mommy's not around. She used to love her heroin but now she's underground? A: My Michelle
Q: Which 1986 Alan Clarke film is about 2 teenage babysiters from Bradford who have an affair with a married man? A: Rita Sue and Bob Too
Q: Which singer was backed by The Vandellas? A: Martha Reeves
Q: Which ex-comic is married to Billy Connolly? A: Pamela Stephenson
Q: In the tv show Charmed, what was the name of the eldest sister (played by Shannen Doherty) who was killed off at the end of Season 3? A: Prue Halliwell
Q: Who was married to Spandau Ballet's Gary Kemp and later to Jude Law? A: Sadie Frost
Q: What name is given to any work of religious art which depicts the baby Jesus with his mother? A: Madonna and Child
Q: How many episodes of Only Fools and Horses were there? a. 65 b. 85 c. 105 d. 125 A: a. 65
Q: Fawlty Towers was supposedly set in which seaside town? A: Torquay
Q: What name was given to the spin-off off the comedy series Porridge? A: Going Straight
Q: Who played the part of Compo in Last Of The Summer Wine? A: Bill Owen
Q: Bill Pertwee played which character in Dads Army? A: Warden Hodges
Q: What do Australians call a dry stream bed that fills with water when it rains? A: Billabong
Q: On which river does Balmoral Castle stand? A: River Dee
Q: Where would you be stood if you were at zero degrees latitude and zero degrees longitude? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: n which country would you find both the rivers Oder and Vistula, which flow into the Baltic Sea? A: Poland
Q: What is the only US state which borders one other state only? A: Maine
Q: Winston Churchill's mother came from which country? A: USA
Q: Where was Napoleon Bonaparte born? A: Corsica
Q: In which country was the composer Chopin born? A: Poland
Q: In which country was Joseph Stalin born? A: Georgia
Q: Who was disparagingly known as that Austrian corporal? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: The Bee Gees are popularly credited as being from Australia, but on which island were they actually born? A: Isle of Man
Q: In which country was JRR Tolkien born? A: South Africa
Q: Mother Theresa was born in which country? A: Macedonia
Q: The 1918 pandemic was given what name? A: Spanish Flu
Q: What is the name of the dog that appears on His Masters Voice lables? A: Nipper
Q: Who owned the black labrador that was killed on the evening of the Dam Busters raid? A: Guy Gibson
Q: Blondi was a German Shepherd that belonged to whom? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: What is the name of the cat in the Homeward Bound movies? A: Sassy
Q: What is the name of the only book written by Anna Sewell? A: Black Beauty
Q: What is the name of Susan Boyle's cat? A: Pebbles
Q: What is the name of Tintin's wire haired terrier? A: Snowy
Q: What is the name of the lion in the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer logo? A: Leo
Q: What is the name of the baboon/witch doctor from The Lion King? A: Rafiki
Q: Who was often heard to say "Stupid boy" in the series Dads Army? A: Captain Mainwaring
Q: What was the name of the character often used in the pictures in Roy Walker's programme "Catchphrase"? A: Mr Chips
Q: Which television character is well known for his catchphrase "D'oh"? A: Homer Simpson
Q: Which TV character was often heard to say "I pity the fool"? A: B A Baracus
Q: "You get nothing for a pair" was a Bruce Forsyth catchphrase in which programme? A: Play Your Cards Right
Q: Who was known for the catchphrase Bernie, ... the bolt? A: Bob Monkhouse
Q: What you talkin' about Willis was a catchphrase for the late Gary Coleman in which TV series? A: Diff'rent Strokes
Q: "He's fallen in the water," was a catchphrase from which radio show? A: The Goon Show
Q: Which wild-card won Wimbledon in 2001? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: What is the maximum number of ball girls or boys allowed on court at any one time? A: 6
Q: What is the total number of grass courts at Wimbledon? A: 19
Q: What nationality is Tomas Berdych, who defeated Roger Federer on his way to the final of the Men's Singles at Wimbledon in 2010? A: Czech
Q: Who partnered Jamie Murray when he won the mixed doubles title at Wimbledon in 2007? A: Jelena Jankovic
Q: Which player famously cried on the Duchess of Kent's shoulder after losing the final of the Ladies Singles at Wimbledon in 1993? A: Jana Novotna
Q: What was the name of Adam and the ants first album called? A: Dirk Wears White Sox
Q: Who sang the song Maniac from the movie Flashdance? A: Michael Sembello
Q: Ginger Baker was the drummer from which band? A: Cream
Q: What singers real name is Michael Barratt? A: Shakin Stevens
Q: Graham Nash from Crosby Stills and Nash was originally a member of which U.K. group? A: The Hollies
Q: What band consists of Gerard Way, Mikey Way, Ray Toro, Frank Iero and Bob Briar? A: My Chemical Romance
Q: By what name did Priscilla White find fame in the world of music? A: Cilla Black
Q: By what other name is Jonas Altberg better known? A: Basshunter
Q: Doctor Who's companion Leela went on to star in which soap? A: Eastenders
Q: What is the name of the Daleks home planet? A: Skaro
Q: Name the Doctor's robotic companion from the episode The Kings Demons? A: Kamelion
Q: Who played the first Doctor? A: William Hartnell
Q: Which singer/comedien appeared in a Doctor Who film? A: Bernard Cribbens
Q: The Lord of the Rings was written as a sequel to which book? A: The Hobbit
Q: At the start of The Fellowship of the Ring, which birthday is Bilbo Baggins celebrating? A: 111th
Q: Gollum killed his brother for the One ring. What was his brother's name? A: Deagol
Q: Who changes colour during The Two Towers, from Grey to White? A: Gandalf
Q: Name the Ent who befriends Merry and Pippin in Fanghorn forest. A: Treebeard
Q: Who was the last woman to be executed for murder in the UK? A: Ruth Ellis
Q: Murderer Donald Neilson was otherwise known by what name? A: Black Panther
Q: Which notorious American serial killer defended himself in court in 1979? A: Ted Bundy
Q: Which nurse was called the Angel of Death after murdering 4 children in 1991? A: Beverley Allitt
Q: Which British serial killer was played by Richard Attenborough in a 1971 movie? A: John Christie
Q: What alias was used by Robert LeRoy Parker? A: Butch Cassidy
Q: Betty Driver played which role in Coronation Street? A: Betty Williams
Q: Which fictional character drove a white Volvo P1800? A: The Saint
Q: Minnie Driver was nominated for an Academy Award for her role in Good Will Hunting in 1997, but who played the title role? A: Matt Damon
Q: What is the surname of the only Russian F1 driver in the 2010 season? A: (Vitaly) Petrov
Q: In the movie Taxi Driver, who played child prostitute Iris? A: Jodie Foster
Q: Thomas Watkins was a fictitious driver who appeared in which popular period drama of the mid 1970s. A: Upstairs Downstairs
Q: Who drove the `Cannonball Express` in a 1958 TV children's programme? A: Casey Jones
Q: The mandible and maxilla make up which part of the body? A: Jaw
Q: Which standard unit of energy can be defined as the work required to continuously produce one watt of power for one second? A: Joule
Q: Which romantic film directed by David Lean is set in World War 2 and based in and around Milford railway station? A: Brief Encounter
Q: In which year was the German battleship The Bismarck sunk by the Royal Navy? A: 1941
Q: Springfield is the home of the Simpsons, and is also the real-life capital of which US State? A: Illinois
Q: Which World Champion darts player has the nickname Darth Maple A: John Part
Q: When the musical Chicago won the Best Picture Oscar in 2002 it was the 1st musical to do so since which 1968 film? A: Oliver!
Q: Which Canadian province consists of an island and a length of coastline, both of which have a breed of dog named after them? A: Newfoundland
Q: Which Mexican dish which translates as little donkey is based around folded soft tortillas and is now a favourite breakfast dish in the USA? A: Burrito
Q: David Day and Thereze Bazar had hits in the 1980s under what name? A: Dollar
Q: Which word was introduced on coins in 1971 before being dropped in 1982? A: New
Q: In the world of 80's soap operas which street had the postcode L43 6TZ? A: Brookside Close
Q: What nationality was the inventor of the Rubik's Cube? A: Hungarian
Q: Which General became the 18th US President after leading the Union Army to victory in the Civil War? A: Ulysses S Grant
Q: The 1927 movie The General starred which actor? A: Buster Keaton
Q: Which US General, nicknamed "Stormin'" was commander of the coalition forces in the Gulf War of 1991? A: Gen Norman Schwarzkopf.
Q: Which British submarine sunk the General Belgrano during the Falklands War in 1982? A: HMS Conqueror.
Q: Who was General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers' Union from 1992 to 2003, and the first black leader of a British trade union? A: Bill Morris.
Q: The General Synod is the legislative body of the Church of England, instituted in 1970. By what name was this body known prior to 1970? A: The Church Assembly.
Q: In Worzel Gummidge, who played the character of Aunty Sally? A: Una Stubbs
Q: What cartoon series featured a character called Little My? A: The Moomins
Q: Who created and wrote the TV series Maid Marian And Her Merry Men? A: Tony Robinson
Q: The cartoon series Dogtanian And The Three Muskehounds was based on a book by which author? A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: In the TV show The Flumps, how many Flumps where there? A: 6
Q: What sport did Jossie's Giants play? A: Football
Q: What is the most popular cheese to be produced and consumed in Greece? A: Feta
Q: Which country produces Leerdammer cheese? A: Netherlands.
Q: "Caravane" is the brand name of a cheese produced in Mauritania. From which animal is the milk taken? A: Camel.
Q: Which writer and comedian had a family name Cheese, but his father changed it in 1915? A: John Cleese.
Q: Peter was the first Pope but who was the second? A: Pope Linus
Q: What is Benedict XVI 's real name? A: Joseph Ratzinger.
Q: In which area of Germany was he born and raised? A: Bavaria
Q: True or False. Pope Adrian the 2nd was the last married Pope? A: True
Q: When looking at a list of Popes, you will sometimes see the letters O.S.B. following a name. What does this mean? A: Order of Saint Benedict.
Q: How many lions guard Nelson's Column? A: Four
Q: Which is the busiest London Underground Station? A: Victoria
Q: Fenchurch Street, Liverpool Street, Kings Cross,... what completes this set? A: Marylebone
Q: Which author gave the copyright of the Peter Pan works to Great Ormond Street Hospital? A: J M Barrie
Q: Who did Michael Fagan famously wake up in London in July 1982? A: The Queen
Q: Name the actors who played Batman and Robin in the 60s. A: Adam West and Burt Ward
Q: In which TV show would you find a group of freedom fighters in their spaceship called the Liberator? A: Blakes 7
Q: What was the number given to Patrick McGoohan in the TV series The Prisoner? A: Number 6
Q: In Star Trek, by what nickname is Dr Leonard McCoy better known? A: Bones
Q: In Buffy The Vampire Slayer, what is Buffy's surname? A: Summers
Q: What was the name of the Bionic Man? A: Steve Austin
Q: In The X-files, what is the name of Mulder and Skully's assistant director? A: Walter Skinner
Q: In The Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy, what was the name of the best drink in existence? A: The pan-galactic gargle blaster
Q: "One" is a popular song in which stage musical and movie of the same name. A: Chorus Line.
Q: In the 1986 comedy movie The Three Amigos, who starred alongside Steve Martin and Chevy Chase in the title roles. A: Martin Short.
Q: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are described in the Book of Revelations as representing Death, War, Famine, and Conquest, but Conquest has been changed in modern times. By what name is it more commonly known? A: Pestilence.
Q: In which year was the Six Day War fought between Israel, Egypt, Syria and Jordan. A: 1967
Q: In the 1995 movie thriller Seven, who played the serial killer. A: Kevin Spacey
Q: In the lyrics of the Twelve Days of Christmas, what are there nine of? A: Ladies Dancing
Q: The 1956 movie the Ten Commandments starred Charlton Heston as Moses, but which Hollywood star played his adopted brother Rameses II. A: Yul Brynner
Q: Which James Bond film was the first to be given a non PG rating by the British Board of Film Classification? A: License to Kill
Q: Which Actor to play James Bond is the only one mentioned in text by Ian Flemming? A: David Niven
Q: Which James Bond Theme was the first to be nominated for an academy award for best original song? A: Live and let die
Q: How many James Bond Themes did Dame Shirley Bassey Perform? A: Three
Q: With the Exception of the reccuring featured cast who has appeared in the most James Bond films? A: Shane Rimmer
Q: How many Bond Films did Joe Don Baker appear in? A: 3
Q: How many actors in the James Bond Films have played both a good guy and a Bad Guy? A: Three
Q: Name the BBC sequel to Till Death Us Do Part. A: In Sickness and in Health
Q: How many episodes of Fawlty Towers were made?. A: 12
Q: Which legndary  sports commentator presented ITV's The Big Match?. A: Brian Moore
Q: what was the name of the cow in The Magic Roundabout?. A: Ermintrude
Q: Windsor Davies played which character in It Ain't Half Hot Mum?. A: Sergeant Major Shut Up Williams
Q: the Naked Civil Servant starred which character?. A: Quentin Crisp
Q: Which comedian was born Charles Edward Springall? A: Charlie Drake
Q: In cricket, if you are out without scoring, what is it called? A: Duck
Q: Who was prime minister of Britain from 1970 to 1974? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who became the Chief Executive of the Professional Footballers' Association in 1981, and is reputed to be the highest paid union official in the world? A: Gordon Taylor
Q: Which singer songwriter's new album is called Some Kind Of Trouble'. He made his name with his debut album Back to Bedlam' in 2005? A: James Blunt
Q: . Bill Waddington played which Coronation Street character? A: Percy Sugden
Q: Which ex Gaiety Girl was managing director of Aintree from 1958 to 1973? A: Mirabel Topham
Q: Which award-winning English actor has appeared in over 60 films since his debut in 1962. His major roles include butterfly collector Freddie Clegg in The Collector A: Terence Stamp
Q: What is another name for a Scottish church? A: A Kirk
Q: What 2002 novel by Alice Sebold, is the story of a teenage girl who, after being murdered, watches from heaven as her family and friends struggle to move on with their lives while she comes to terms with her own death. A: The Lovely Bones
Q: The Aberdeen Terrier is better known as what type of dog? A: Scotty dog
Q: What was the name of the Russian short-story writer, playwright and physician, considered to be one of the greatest short-story writers in the history of world literature? A: Anton Chekhov
Q: What was the name of the American pediatrician whose book Baby and Child Care, was published in 1946? A: Benjamin Spock
Q: Which village in Essex  which sits on the River Colne, is famous for its Victorian viaduct that crosses the Colne valley A: Chappel
Q: Who was the Roman god of fire? A: Vulcan
Q: What was the nickname of the H4 Hercules flying boat, that never went into production after it's maiden flight due to post war cutbacks in 1947. A: The Spruce Goose
Q: Flying Down to Rio is a 1933 movie that saw the first screen pairing of which partnership. A: Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers.
Q: Which group had a hit with Flying Without Wings in 1999 A: Westlife
Q: In which town was the Flying Scotsman locomotove manufactured in 1956. A: Doncaster
Q: Which member of Monty Python's Flying Circus was largely responsible for the animation, including the giant foot in the show's opening sequence. A: Terry Gilliam
Q: What is the correct name for the "Flying Lady" ornament on a Rolls Royce radiator. A: The Spirit of Ecstasy.
Q: The Flying Wallendas were a circus act and daredevil stunt performers with Barnum & Bailey for 40 years, and Karl Wallenda was known for high wire performances. From which country did they originate. A: Germany
Q: What is the name of the victim in 'Cluedo'? A: Dr Black
Q: What is the only UK monopoly property which contains all of the letters in the word 'monopoly' in its name? A: Electric Company
Q: How many white squares are there on a chess board? A: 32
Q: Which game, introduced in the 1980's and still available today involved guiding a metal ball around an obstacle course? A: Screwball Scramble
Q: How many rooms are there in 'Cluedo'? A: 9
Q: Who were the last act to win the Eurovision Song Contest for the UK? A: Katrina And The Waves
Q: What is the musical term for one or more vocalists performing without an accompaniment? A: A Cappella
Q: What is the smallest woodwind instrument in an orchestra? A: Piccolo
Q: Which phrase links the title of an Oasis album and a British coin? A: Standing On The Shoulders Of Giants
Q: In which year did The Beatles officially split? A: 1970
Q: Who was the biggest-selling female solo artist of the 1990's in the USA? A: Mariah Carey
Q: In 1976, which song was knocked off the number one spot by another song, the title of which is mentioned in its own lyrics? A: Bohemian Rhapsody
Q: A 'smack' is the collective noun for a group of which marine creatures? A: Jellyfish
Q: Which organ of the human body is affected by Hepatitis? A: Liver
Q: How many muscles are there in a human finger? A: None
Q: What is the third largest planet in the Solar System? A: Uranus
Q: Where in the human body would you find the thinnest skin? A: Eyelids
Q: A 'troubling' is the collective noun for a group of which household pets? A: Goldfish
Q: Which part of the male does a female mantis usually bite off during mating? A: Head
Q: What is the more common name of the medical condition 'Diplopia'? A: Double-vision
Q: Which P.M was voted pipe smoker of the year? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Who was the first P.M? A: Robert Walpole
Q: Who was P.M at the time of the profumo affair? A: Harold MacMillan
Q: Who is the only P.M to have been assassinated? A: Spencer Percival
Q: Which British actor starred in the 1975 movie Paper Tiger A: David Niven
Q: How many pieces of paper make up a Quire. A: 25
Q: How many Quires make up a Ream A: 20
Q: On which horse did Tony McCoy win the 2010 Grand National on his 15th attempt? A: Don't Push It
Q: Which team won the  Aviva Premiership (rugby union) in 2009/10? A: Leicester Tigers
Q: Who won the 2010 French Open Women's Singles final in June? A: Francesca Schiavone
Q: Which team won Super Bowl XLIV in February 2010? A: New Orleans Saints
Q: Which Red Bull driver was Formula One 2010 World Champion? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: Who was the 2010 MotoGP champion? A: Jorge Lorenzo
Q: Who replaced David Tennant as Doctor Who in January? A: Matt Smith
Q: In April, the BBC announced that who would be replacing Adrian Chiles on the One Show for Fridays, which ultimately led to him quitting the BBC for a four-year deal with ITV? A: Chris Evans
Q: Which singer was given an eight-week sentence for crashing his car into a branch of photographic store Snappy Snaps while under the influence of cannabis in July. A: George Michael
Q: On which Australian TV show in September, was the wrong winner accidentally announced during its live final? A: Australia's Next Top Model
Q: In November, which film (full title) broke UK box office records; Biggest 3-day opening, biggest single day in ticket sales and biggest Friday, Saturday & Sunday openings? A: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Q: Haggis is a national delicacy of which country? A: Scotland
Q: Madeira Wine is a product of which country? A: Portugal
Q: In which country did chop suey originate? A: U.S.A
Q: Red Stripe beer comes from which country? A: Jamaica
Q: From which country does Stella Artois come? A: Belgium
Q: Who was the first woman in the Bible? A: Eve
Q: Athlete Florence Griffith Joyner was commonly known by what nickname? A: Flo Jo
Q: Who was the first female governor of Alaska? A: Sarah Palin
Q: The Edward and Mrs Simpson affair rocked the world in 1936. What was the first name of Mrs Simpson? A: Wallis
Q: What is the name of the Peter Griffin's wife in Family Guy? A: Lois
Q: Which actress has won more Best Actress Oscars than anyone else? A: Katherine Hepburn
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the mother of Oedipus? A: Jocasta
Q: Who was lead singer of The Bangles? A: Susanna Hoffs
Q: Which US President was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who was assassinated on the Ides of March? A: Julius Caesar
Q: According to William Shakespeare, who killed Duncan? A: Macbeth
Q: Which ex-Prime Minister of Pakistan was assassinated in December 2007? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: Which war hero and escapee from Colditz was assassinated in 1979? A: Airey Neave
Q: Who shot and killed Lee Harvey Oswald? A: Jack Ruby
Q: The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria caused what cataclysmic world event? A: The First World War
Q: Andrey Lugovoy is wanted by British police on suspicion of the murder of whom? A: Alexander Litvinenko
Q: Which famous person did Mark Chapman kill in December 1980? A: John Lennon
Q: Which famous TV cowboy was played by Clayton Moore? A: The Lone Ranger
Q: What was the name of Butch Cassidy's gang? A: The Hole In The Wall Gang
Q: Who played the Ringo Kid in the film Stagecoach? A: John Wayne
Q: Which real life law enforcer did Henry Fonda play in the film My Darling Clementine? A: Wyatt Earp
Q: In which American State did the Gunfight at the OK Corral take place? A: Arizona
Q: Known as Wild Bill, what were J. B. Hickok's real first names? A: James Butler
Q: Who played English Bob in the film Unforgiven? A: Richard Harris
Q: Which tribe did Crazy Horse lead? A: Sioux
Q: Which singer starred in 1970 film 'Gunfight'? A: Johnny Cash
Q: Alec Guinness played Sid Stratton in The Man in the White Suit' in a film made as part of which famous studio's comedy classics. A: Ealing
Q: What is the first bridge that the boats pass under in the Oxford - Cambridge boat race? A: Hammersmith
Q: What is the capital of Jamaica? A: Kingston
Q: New York is made up of five boroughs - Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn, The Bronx and which other? A: Queens
Q: Of which regal title is Princess Anne the seventh holder? A: Princess Royal
Q: How many is there in a bakers dozen? A: 13
Q: No.617 RAF Sqaudron is better known as what? A: The Dambusters
Q: Who scored the first ever Golden Goal in the 1998 World Cup? A: Laurent Blanc
Q: What is the Capital City of Latvia? A: Riga
Q: Who was British Primeminister between 1880 - 1885? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: Gordon Sumner is better known as whom? A: Sting
Q: Who won the 2002 FA Cup? A: Arsenal
Q: What is the english translation of Carpe Diem? A: Seize the Day
Q: New York is made up of five districts, Manhattan, Richmond, Brooklyn, Bronx and which other? A: Queens
Q: Which European city has the highest mileage of canals in the world? A: Birmingham
Q: Which river forms much of the border between England and Scotland? A: Tweed
Q: In which European country is the city of Strasbourg? A: France
Q: What is the largest of the Greek islands? A: Crete
Q: In which country is Transylvania? A: Romania
Q: Which country do the Faroe Islands belong to? A: Denmark
Q: The name of which European capital city is derived from the names of two towns on either bank of its main river? A: Budapest
Q: What spirit is used to make Daquari? A: Rum
Q: Which country has the largest Malt Whisky distillery in the world? A: Japan
Q: What is the flavour of `Ouzo`? A: Aniseed
Q: Which evergreen tree's berries are used to flavour gin? A: Juniper
Q: From what fruit is the French cordial syrup of Grenadine made? A: Pomegranate
Q: What is added to tomato juice to make a Bloody Maria? A: Tequila
Q: Which Hollywood actor starred in 142 of his 153 films, having had more leading roles than any other actor. A: John Wayne
Q: Tom Cruise plays a naval lawyer in which 1992 film? A: A Few Good Men
Q: Who was the British actor who won an Oscar for his part in 'The Bridge over the River Kwai'? A: Sir Alec Guinness
Q: With which actor did John Travolta exchange faces in the movie Face Off? A: Nicholas Cage
Q: Who played Popeye in the movie of the same name? A: Robin Williams
Q: Dustin Hoffman played a character suffering from Autism in which Film? A: Rain Man
Q: Which film star has a statue in Leicester Square? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: Which actress was in both the 60s and 90s versions of The Thomas Crown Affair? A: Faye Dunaway
Q: Who played the part of Annie Porter in the 2 Speed films? A: Sandra Bullock
Q: Which singer / actress played the character 'mayday' in the James bond film 'A view to a kill' A: Grace Jones
Q: Who played the title role in the film Shirley Valentine? A: pauline Collins
Q: Who was the first black woman to win a best actress Oscar? A: Halle Berry
Q: Who plays Lara Croft in the Tomb Raider movies? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: Who is Warren Beatty's famous sister? A: Shirley Maclaine
Q: Who won an Oscar for Best Actress for the film Sophie's Choice? A: Meryl Streep
Q: From which film does the saying ''Hasta la vista, baby" come? A: Terminator
Q: Which actress said: 'When I'm good I'm very good, but when I'm bad I'm better'? A: Mae West
Q: From which film comes the line 'Mrs. Robinson, you're trying to seduce me... aren't you?' A: The Graduate
Q: In which film would you hear the famous line That's not a knife - this is a knife? A: Crocodile Dundee
Q: Credits on all Bond films finish with which same four words? A: James Bond Will Return
Q: Which actress, upon splitting with her partner said, At least I can wear high heels now"? A: Nicole Kidman
Q: Which actor said My Mama always said, 'Life was like a box of chocolates; you never know what you're gonna get." A: Tom Hanks
Q: What is the anniversary gemstone for the 9th year of marriage? A: Tigers Eye.
Q: Currently based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, which major German multinational company  produces high-end athletic shoes? A: Puma.
Q: What material  is made primarily from the shell of the Hawksbill turtle? A: Tortoise Shell
Q: In the 70s series the Return of the Saint, what type of car did the title character drive? A: Jaguar XJS.
Q: Instrumental composition by Henry Mancini written as the theme for this 1963 film? A: The Pink Panther.
Q: Conjoined twins are also known as what? A: Siamese Twins
Q: What is the fourth book of the old testament? A: Numbers
Q: In 1982, who became the first poet to win a Pulitzer Prize posthumously? A: Sylvia Plath
Q: In which year did a terrorist group kill eleven hostages at the Olympic Games? A: 1972
Q: Which 1946 film was an adaptation of Raymond Chandler's crime novel of the same name? A: The Big Sleep
Q: Which influential German philosopher wrote 'Being and Time'? A: Martin Heidegger
Q: Which American society magazine merged into Vogue in 1936? A: Vanity Fair
Q: Who composed the opera 'Hnsel und Gretel'? A: Engelbert Humperdinck
Q: Which country is the largest producer of saffron? A: Iran
Q: In which American state is Area 51 located? A: Nevada
Q: What now stands on the site of the place of execution at Tyburn? A: Marble Arch
Q: What now stands on the site of the notorious Newgate prison? A: The Old Bailey
Q: Which London river, now flowing underground, rises at Finsbury Circus, flows through the City of London and enters the Thames by Cannon Street railway station? A: River Walbrook
Q: What was the name of the first prefabricated building that was erected on the medieval London Bridge in 1577? A: Nonsuch House
Q: What was the second bridge to be built over the Thames in London in 1750? A: Westminster Bridge
Q: The Crystal Palace was re-erected on which hill in South London after the Great Exhibition of 1851? A: Sydenham Hill
Q: Outside of which building in Whitehall was King Charles I executed? A: The Banqueting House
Q: The Panzer MK V in WWII was better known as? A: Panther tank
Q: During the English Civil War the Parliamentarians held London. In which city did the Royalists establish their rival capital? A: Oxford
Q: Which ancient, fierce warrior nation, upon attacking ancient Israel, . came down like a wolf on the fold'? A: The Assyrians
Q: At which naval battle in WWII did the Americans decisively defeat the Japanese Carrier Task Force? A: Battle of Midway
Q: In 1944 what was the name of the operation to take key bridges over major rivers in Holland by airborne and land force assaults? A: Market-Garden
Q: After which battle did the British Life Guards first obtain their breast-plates? A: Waterloo - from Napoleon's defeated Cuirassier's breast-plates
Q: The bombardment of which fort was the act which started the American Civil War? A: Fort Sumpter
Q: Which WWI battle occurred on a peninsular south of Istanbul in Turkey? A: Gallipoli
Q: What is the highest mountain in England? A: Scafell Pike
Q: Which city is known as the Granite City'? A: Aberdeen
Q: Aquae Sulis is the Roman name for which modern city? A: Bath
Q: Which range of hills in the west country has Cheddar Gorge and it's caves as well as Wookey Hole caves? A: The Mendip Hills
Q: What is the name of the extensive area of marshland on the south-east coast of Kent? A: Romney Marshes
Q: What is the name of the World Heritage Site on the coastline of Dorset and East Devon? A: The Jurassic Coast
Q: Which word, common in the South of England, describes a steep-sided river valley where the water flows through coastal cliffs to the sea? A: A chine
Q: What was the UK's earliest National Park? A: The Peak District
Q: Who played the title role in the movie Billy Elliot. A: Jamie Bell
Q: Which actress danced the twist with John Travolta in Pulp Fiction A: Uma Thurman
Q: Babs Lord (the tall blonde one in Pan's People) has been married to which English actor since 1975. A: Robert Powell
Q: Dame Marie Rambert founded her own dancing school in the 1920s, In which country was she born. A: Poland.
Q: James Arness played Marshall Matt Dillon in Gunsmoke. Who was his actor brother. A: Peter Graves
Q: What is the surname of the Chuckle brothers? A: Elliot.
Q: Who is the TV personality brother of radio presenter Janice Long? A: Keith Chegwin.
Q: Which of the Marx brothers never spoke on screen after his first appearance in 1925? A: Harpo.
Q: Cricketing brothers Ian & Greg Chappell have both captained Australia. A third Chappell brother has also played for his country, what is his name. A: Trevor
Q: In which city did IOC president Jacques Rogge announce London as the host of the 2012 Olympic Games? A: Singapore
Q: Which is the only position on a netball field designated with a single letter on the bib worn by each player? A: Centre
Q: On a cricket field which principal position is between Mid-on and Square leg? A: Mid-wicket
Q: If you box in a left handed stance is described as southpaw.  How is the stance of a right handed boxer usually described? A: Orthodox
Q: Which US city is host to teams called the Penguins in Ice Hockey and the Pirates in Baseball? A: Pittsburgh
Q: In which sport do you score 6 points for a goal and 1 point for a behind? A: Australian Rules Football
Q: Which town or city has a rugby league team called the Rams? A: Dewsbury
Q: Apart from Newcastle United, which other English Football League team plays their home matches at a ground called St James' Park? A: Exeter City
Q: Which 60s fashion icon gave it all up to run a hotel in Cornwall? A: Jean Shrimpton
Q: Who kept her face in a jar by the door? A: Eleanor Rigby
Q: Who was the first artistic director of the National Theatre, started at the Old Vic in 1963? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: Which long-running television programme started on the day after President Kennedy's assasination? A: Doctor Who
Q: The Beatles had an unbroken run of number one British singles from 1963 until, in March 1967, they were pushed into second place. By which singer? A: Engelbert Humperdinck
Q: Which British film from 1963 won four Oscars and was based on a novel first published in 1749? A: Tom Jones
Q: The Profumo affair is frequently blamed for bringing down the Conservative government in 1964. Who created the scandal by introducing John Profumo to Christine Keeler? A: Stephen Ward
Q: Which famous piece of music was commissioned for the reconsecration of Coventry Cathedral in 1962? A: The War Requiem
Q: The Biba boutiques were at the heart of swinging London and at one time had the highest turnover of any British retail company. Who founded and ran Biba? A: Barbara Hulanicki
Q: What is caused by the gravitational pull of the Moon and Sun on Earth? A: The tides
Q: In geology what is the term used for the layer between the Earth's crust and the core? A: The Mantle
Q: Which gas forms about 78% of the Earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: The lowest part of the Earth's atmosphere, where we live, is called what? A: The Troposphere
Q: What is the name of the effect that deflects winds and currents as a result of the Earth's rotation? A: The Coriolus Effect
Q: In the distant past what was the name given to the Super-Continent that made up the majority land mass of Earth? A: Pangaea
Q: What is the name for the study of Continental Drift? A: Plate Tectonics
Q: Cullen Skink is a hearty soup made with potatoes, onion and which fish? A: Smoked Haddock
Q: Which common kitchen herb is used in a Mojito? A: Mint
Q: Which fruit goes into the liqueur Kirsch? A: Cherry
Q: What is the main ingredient of Guacamole? A: Avocado
Q: Rigatoni is what type of Italian food? A: Pasta
Q: What is the name of the special Indian clay oven? A: A Tandoor
Q: The Harvey Wall Banger cocktail contain Vodka, orange juice and what else? A: Galliano
Q: Which chef presents 'Saturday Morning Kitchen' on TV? A: James Martin
Q: Which food dish is named after one of Napoleons famous victories? A: Chicken Marengo
Q: What alcoholic drink is made from molasses? A: Rum
Q: In Greek cuisine a vine or cabbage leaf with a savoury stuffing is called what? A: A Dolma
Q: What was the name of the cavalry regiment raised and trained by Oliver Cromwell in the English Civil War? A: The Ironsides
Q: William Howard Russell became famous as what during the Crimean War? A: War Correspondent
Q: The Bourbon dynasty began to rule which country from 1700 and still do? A: Spain
Q: What was abolished in Russia in 1861? A: Serfdom
Q: Near which city in Russia did the greatest tank battle of World War II take place in July 1943? A: Kursk
Q: At the battle of Ashdown, in A.D 871, the Danes were defeated by forces under which famous king? A: King Alfred
Q: What did Prince Albert, consort of Queen Victoria, die of? A: Typhoid
Q: Who was the first monarch of the House of Tudor? A: Henry VII
Q: Who crowned Napoleon as Emperor? A: He crowned himself
Q: Which World War II General was nicknamed The Desert Fox? A: General Erwin Rommel
Q: Which military battle saw eleven Victoria Crosses awarded, the most for any single action? A: Battle of Rorke's Drift
Q: Who was the English King at the Battle of Agincourt? A: Henry V
Q: Who were allied with the French Naval forces during The Battle of Trafalgar? A: Spain
Q: Who was the Supreme Allied Commander during the D Day landings of 1944? A: General Dwight D Eisenhower
Q: What RAF squardron number was nicknamed The Dambusters? A: 617
Q: The Seiges of Ladysmith and Mafeking were military actions during which war? A: Second Boer War
Q: What is the first name of the American professional tennis player with the surname Fish. A: Mardy
Q: In which rock band was Fish the lead singer A: Marillion
Q: In which country is Fishoek, a wine producing coastal area. A: South Africa - Western Cape.
Q: In Finding Nemo, what was the name of Nemo's father. A: Marlin
Q: Which progressive rock band had a track called The Fish on their 1971 album Fragile, their 4th album, but the first to feature Rick Wakeman. A: Yes
Q: Who starred in the 1991 movie The Fisher King A: Robin Williams
Q: What is the currency name in Bulgaria? A: Lev
Q: Which comedian, writer & actor had the character Loadsamoney' which he played on his TV shows? A: Harry Enfield
Q: Which actress played Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond films fourteen times, from Dr. No (1962) until her final performance of the character in A View to a Kill (1985). A: Lois Maxwell
Q: The lyric I was born in the wagon of a travellin show, my mama used to dance for the money they'd throw' is from which song? A: Gypsies Tramps & Thieves
Q: True Cashmere is a product of which kind of animal? A: Cashmere Goat
Q: Which 1964 film, starring Stanley Baker and Jack Hawkins depicted the 1879 Battle of Rorke's Drift? A: Zulu
Q: These were "star-cross'd lovers" whose deaths ultimately unite their feuding families.  What were their names? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: What is the name of the only Canadian province to have French as its sole official language? A: Quebec
Q: Which Christian name links Brown, Champagne and Aunt? A: Charlie
Q: According to Greek Mythology, what was the name of the mountain nymph who falls in love with Narcissus? A: Echo
Q: A discovery by Professor Wilhelm Roentgen in the 1890s led to which amazing medical invention? A: X-Ray
Q: Claude Monet, King Hussein of Jordan and Prince Charles all share the same birthday - the 14th .... of  which month? A: November
Q: This word has seven letters, it came before god, is greater than god, more evil than the devil, poor people have it, rich people want it, if you eat it you would die. What is it? A: Nothing
Q: What can you catch but you can't throw? A: A cold
Q: What gets whiter the dirtier it gets? A: A chalkboard
Q: What can go up a chimney down, but not down a chimney up? A: An umbrella
Q: What is so frasgile that even saying its name would break it? A: Silence
Q: What is the name of Fluer Delacor's little sister? A: Gabrielle
Q: What is Mad-Eye Moody's first name? A: Alastor
Q: How many horcruxes are there? A: 8
Q: What is the fulkl name of the Headmaster of Hogwarts who is killed in book 6? A: Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore
Q: Who is the poltergeist at Hogwarts? A: Peeves
Q: What is the animal Professor McGonall turns into? A: Cat
Q: Which British Blue Peter presenter is attempting, in January 2012, to get to the South Pole on a variety modes of transport - including a bike and kite ski? A: Helen Skelton
Q: Who is most commonly attributed as finding America, when he was hoping to find a route to India? A: Christopher Colombus
Q: Which British explorer was the  first ship's captain to stop the disease scurvy (now known to be caused by a lack of vitamin C) among sailors by providing them with fresh fruits? A: Captain James Cook
Q: Which Portuguese explorer discovered an ocean route from Portugal to the East - thought to be impossible at the time - in 1497?? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: In the Old English saga Beowulf, what is the name of the monster? A: Grendel
Q: A village in North Wales is named for the grave of a legendary dog. What is it's name? A: Beddgelert
Q: Doncaster airport takes its name from which figure in folklore? A: Robin Hood
Q: In Arthurian legend, who fought the Green Night? A: Gawain
Q: What is the name given to the collection of Welsh legends? A: The Mabinogion
Q: Which famous author hoped to create a mythology for England? A: J. R. R. Tolkien
Q: St George is the patron saint of England, but in which country would you find his tomb? A: Israel
Q: What country is Pecarino cheese from. A: Italy
Q: What country is Sukhindol wine from. A: Bulgaria
Q: What is a crate of twelve bottles of wine called. A: Case
Q: Which cheese is known as the King of English cheeses. A: Stilton
Q: What is the German label term indicating a high quality wine. A: Kabinett
Q: Which well known cheese is transported in cyclindrical wood-chip boxes. A: Camembert
Q: How many normal size wine bottles in a Methuselah. A: Eight
Q: Which group had a Top Ten hit in 1986 with 'Hunting High And Low'. A: A-Ha
Q: Who starred as Will Kane in the 1952 film 'High Noon'. A: Gary Cooper
Q: What is the highest mountain in Germany. A: Zugspitze
Q: Where is the lowest point in Africa. A: Lake Assai
Q: In which year was The Highway Code first published. A: 1931
Q: What is the name of Frank and Betty Spencer's daughter in Some Mothers Do Have Em? A: Jessica
Q: Who played Queen Elizabeth I in Blackadder II? A: Miranda Richardson
Q: Which sitcom starred Leonard Rossiter in the role of a supermarket manager? A: Tripper's Day
Q: In Rising Damp what was the christian name of Miss Jones? A: Ruth
Q: What is the name of the church in The Vicar of Dibley? A: St Barnabus
Q: In The Young Ones who shared the house with Rick, Vivian and Neil? A: Mike
Q: The Kipper and the Corpse was an episode from which classic comedy series? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: What was the name of the character played by Alyson Hannigan in the TV series Buffy the Vampire Slayer? A: Willow (Rosenburg).
Q: Which company makes the iPod and the iPhone? A: Apple
Q: The three commonest horse coats are: bay, grey and which other colour? A: Chestnut
Q: On what part of the body would you find the Mount of Venus? A: Palm of the hand
Q: Who starred in the films: The Gold Rush, City Lights & Modern Times? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: Whose debut album released in 1998 was entitled The Voice of an Angel? A: Charlotte Church
Q: Which author who died in 1998 was the most borrowed author from British libraries for over twenty years? A: Catherine Cookson
Q: In the USA, the second Monday in October is a celebration in recognition of which historical figure? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: Which actor, possibly best known for his portrayal of Clark Griswald, hosted the American Acadamy Awards Ceremony in both 1987 and 1988? A: Chevy Chase
Q: Who in the early 1960's became known as the King of The Twist? A: Chubby Checker
Q: Which actress played Monica Geller in the TV series Friends? A: Courteney Cox
Q: Which fashion designer was chiefly responsible for the popularization of  the Little Black Dress? A: Coco Chanel
Q: Who was Home Secretary during the Foreign Prisoners Scandal of 2006? A: Charles Clarke
Q: Which supermodel was married to Richard Gere between 1991 and 1995? A: Cindy Crawford
Q: Who had a hit in the 1980s with White Wedding A: Billy Idol
Q: Which alcohol forms the primary ingredient of a White Lady cocktail A: Gin
Q: Which football club played at White City stadium in the 62-63 season as an experiment, deciding against a permanent move. A: Queens Park Rangers
Q: Who had a hit in 2003 with White Flag A: Dido
Q: Which popular knighted actor was born David White in 1940 A: David Jason
Q: Who was the first monarch to live in Buckingham Palace? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Who manned the first plane flight? A: The Wright Brothers
Q: Ursula Andress was the first Bond Girl, but what was her character name? A: Honey Rider
Q: Who was the first foreign player to score a hat trick in the Premiership? A: Eric Cantona
Q: Bill Sykes dog in Oliver Twist A: Bullseye
Q: Largest member of the cat family A: Tiger
Q: TV programme in which entrepreneurs pitch their ideas to a panel of millionaires A: Dragons Den
Q: 1981 film set in Russia, produced, directed and starring Warren Beatty. Also starring Dianne Keaton A: Reds
Q: 1978 song , sung by Warren Zevon. A: Werewolves of London
Q: Of the athletic events being contested in 2012, which event has the longest standing Olympic record? A: Long Jump
Q: What is the venue for the 2012 Olympic Badminton ? A: Wembley Arena
Q: In which Olympic track cycling event is a derny used? A: Keirin
Q: In which event did Boris Onischenko compete before being disqualified for cheating at the 1976 Montreal Games? A: Modern Pentathlon
Q: Which is the only country to have hosted the winter and summer Olympics in the same year? A: Germany 1936
Q: Mark Spitz famously won seven gold medals in the 1972 Munich Olympics.  How many gold medals did he win the the 1968 Mexico City games? A: 2
Q: Which was the first country to host the Olympic games for a second time? A: France
Q: Which country were appearing at their first finals during Euro 2012 ? A: Ukraine
Q: Which player was fined and given a one match ban for revealing his sponsored underpants after scoring? A: Nicklas Bendtner
Q: Who was the only player to make the UEFA team of the tournament whose team was knocked out in the group stages? A: Zlatan Ibrahimovic
Q: What was the nationality of Pedro Proenca who refereed the final? A: Portuguese
Q: What was the nickname of Captain Pierce in the TV series MASH A: Hawkeye
Q: Where did Captain James Cook die A: Hawaii
Q: Name the Captain of the Titanic when she sunk in 1912 A: Edward Smith
Q: Who played Captain Blood in the 1935 movie. A: Errol Flynn
Q: Who made the album Captain Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy A: Elton John
Q: What was the first name of Captain Mainwaring in Dad's Army. A: George
Q: What is the name of Captain Pugwash's ship A: The Black Pig
Q: Which German statesman was known as the Iron Chancellor? A: Otto von BISMARCK
Q: Which U.S. artist was famous for his unique drip painting? A: JACKSON Pollack
Q: Who was the field marshal who commanded the 8th army during the Battle of El Alamein? A: Bernard MONTGOMERY
Q: Which celebrity chef who has appeared in Hell`s Kitchen and Kitchen Wars was born in Leeds? A: Marco PIERRE White
Q: Which English explorer popularised tobacco in England and ia credited with planting the first potatoes in ireland/ A: Sir Walter RALEIGH
Q: Which English actress, married to Tim Burton starred in A Room With a View and Fight Club? A: HELENA Bonham Carter
Q: Which cat spends most of his time chasing Tweety Pie? A: Sylvester.
Q: Who has friends Chris Rabbit and Mosey Mouse and enemies Farmer Giles and Rum Baa Baa? A: Henry's Cat.
Q: Lasagna and pizza are the favourite foods of which cat? A: Garfield.
Q: What is the name of the cat on the show regularly watched by Bart and Lisa Simpson? A: Scratchy.
Q: Which cat featured in the Dandy comic? A: Korky the Cat.
Q: Sea, Black, Bald, Phillipine and Crested are all types of what? A: Eagle
Q: In which 2006 film does Mark Wahlberg try out for a University American Football team? A: Invincible
Q: Which UK manufacturer produced models such as Trident, Spitfire, Bonneville, Daytona and Dolomite? A: Triumph
Q: In nautical terms, what is the name of the extension of a ship's side above the level of the weather deck? A: Bulwark
Q: What name links a chic handbag, a Greek god and a parcel delivery company? A: Hermes
Q: Which one word connects Elton John, Steptoe & Son and a Disney animated film? A: Hercules
Q: Which river flows through the Grand Canyon A: The Colorado River
Q: Valentia Island is off the coast of which European country? A: Ireland
Q: How many points of the compass are there? A: 32
Q: In which group of British Islands would you find the port of Sullom Voe? A: The Shetlands
Q: Which is the largest country through which the equator passes? A: Brazil
Q: What is the capital city of the USA state Florida? A: Tallahassee
Q: Vaduz is the capital of which doubly land locked central European principality? A: Liechtenstein
Q: What is the capital city of Morocco? A: Rabat
Q: The International border of China and one other country runs across the precise summit of Mount Everest. What is the capital city of the other country? A: Kathmandu
Q: Field Marshal Arthur Wellesley, shares his better known title with which Southern Hemisphere capital city? A: Wellington
Q: What is the current capital city of Turkey? A: Ankara
Q: Amsterdam is the capital city of the Netherlands, but where is the Dutch Seat of Government based? A: The Hague
Q: In which country does the beer Singha originate? A: Thailand
Q: Hallertau, Tettnanger, Spalt, and Saaz all all varieties of what plant? A: Hops
Q: In Canada, the Molson family owns which NHL Team? A: The Montreal Canadiens
Q: What is the first name of Mr. Guinness, of stout beer fame? A: Arthur
Q: Hite, Max and Cass are all brewed in which country? A: South Korea
Q: Who is quoted as saying Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Name the late 1970's cult TV programme, which was based on the 16th century Chinese novel, journey to the west? A: Monkey.
Q: Who is first in line to the British Throne? A: Charles, Prince of Wales.
Q: Which Peter Benchley novel was made into a film in 1975 by Steven Spielberg? A: Jaws.
Q: Which song title connects Huey Lewis and the news, Jennifer Rush and Frankie goes to Hollywood? A: The power of love.
Q: What was the name of the nuclear reactor that caused worldwide concern after the earthquake in Japan, 2011? A: Fukushima Daiichi
Q: In April 2010, a drilling rig run by BP suffered an explosion in the Gulf of Mexico.  Name that rig. A: Deepwater Horizon
Q: On 13 January 2012, what ship hit a rock off Isola del Giglio? A: Costa Concordia
Q: The famous Chilean miners saved in 2010 were originally mining for what  two substances? A: Copper and Gold
Q: The Titanic had three anchors.  What was their combined weight (in tons)? A: 31 tons
Q: Which bomb was dropped on Nagasaki on 9 August, 1945 A: Fat Man
Q: Which musical group had the single New York Mining Disaster, 1941 A: The Bee Gees
Q: This former BBC royal reporter proved popular with the public, finishing as runner-up in the third series of the reality TV show I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! in 2004. A: Jenny Bond
Q: Samantha Bond starred as Miss Moneypenny in four James Bond films between 1995 and 2002. She also plays the recurring character of Auntie Angela in which BBC semi-improvised comedy series? A: Outnumbered
Q: Flemish, English Cross and Garden Wall are all bonds used in what? A: Bricklaying
Q: What colour is Bond Street on a standard Monopoly board? A: Green
Q: OK, a James Bond question: how many actors have played James Bond in the official' movies? A: Seven
Q: Since 1923 the phrase My Name is My Bond' (dictum meum pactum in Latin) has been the motto of which City institution, where deals are made with no written pledges and no exchange of documents? A: London Stock Exchange
Q: What ship was the subject of the mutiny led by Fletcher Christian against Capt. William Bligh. A: HMS Bounty
Q: what was Sir Francis Drake'sship during his global circumnavigation between 1577 & 1580. A: Golden Hind
Q: Which ship gained notoriety when it spilt oil all over Prince William Sound in Alaska in 1989. A: Exxon Valdez
Q: What was the worlds first nuclear powered aircraft carrier, still in commission with the US Navy A: USS Enterprise
Q: Name of one of the most famous warships of WWII named after a German Chancellor - ordered to be sunk by Churchill. A: Bismarck
Q: Worlds first nuclear powered sub & first to complete a submerged transit across North Pole. A: USS Nautilus
Q: Raft used by Norwegian explorer Thor Heyerdahl named after Inca Sun God. A: Kon Tiki
Q: Launched in 1906 & became a generic term for modern battleships and the name of a class of battleships in the Royal Navy. A: HMS Dreadnought
Q: The satirical comedy Airplane! was released in what year? A: 1980
Q: MiniBus, NintendoJet, ScareBus, Chainsaw, Deathjet are all nicknames for which model of aircraft? A: Airbus A320
Q: In August 2009, the band Train released what hit, that made it to #3 on the American Billboard charts? A: Hey Soul Sister
Q: What make of car was used as the platform for the time machine in the Back to the Future franchise? A: Delorean
Q: The high speed network of bullet trains in Japan is known as what? A: Shinkansen
Q: The first coin-operated parking meter in the US was installed in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In what year was it installed? A: 1935
Q: Which city has the greatest number of Rolls Royce automobiles per capita? A: Hong Kong
Q: Of the two Wright brothers, who was born first? A: Wilbur
Q: Which legendary creature has the body,back legs and tail of a lion and the head and wings of an eagle? A: Griffin
Q: Who became the first British Formula 1 champion in 1958? A: Mike Hawthorn
Q: Which Which Jane Austin novel was initially titled First Impressions? A: Pride and Prejudice
Q: Which is the most senior United Kingdom Royal Palace? A: St James Palace
Q: What was the name of country music`s first superstar who died at the age of 29 from drink and drug abuse? A: Hank Williams
Q: What brand of beer does Homer Simpson drink? A: Duff
Q: What popular drink was originally called `Brad`s Drink`? A: Pepsi
Q: Who painted 'Absinthe Drinker' in 1901? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What drink is made from molasses? A: Rum
Q: Which famous author once said `Work is the curse of the drinking class`? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: RAF College Cranwell is located in which county A: Lincolnshire
Q: What would you be training for if you attended White Lodge, Richmond Park A: Classical Ballet
Q: Which town is the administrative centre for the Open University A: Milton Keynes
Q: Who did John Wilkes Booth assassinate in April 1865? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: The Teddy bear is named after whom? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: What bird was first released by Noah? A: Raven
Q: Who or what might suffer from wind-sucking and crib-biting? A: Horse
Q: I'm playing all the right notes but not necessarily in the right order. (Bonus point for to whom) A: Eric Morecambe
Q: Familiarity breeds contempt - and children. A: Mark Twain
Q: Out, damned spot! Out, I say! A: Lady Macbeth
Q: Chamberlain seemed such a nice old gentleman that I thought I would give him my autograph. A: Adolf Hitler
Q: It's not true that I had nothing on. I had the radio on! A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: On board ship, what is housed in a binnacle? A: Compass
Q: What is the proper name for the flag flown by the Merchant Navy sometimes known as a Red Duster? A: Red Ensign
Q: What is the meaning of the nautical term avast? A: Stop
Q: What was a loblolly boy? A: Surgeon's assistant
Q: What was the name of the ship commanded by Captain Pugwash? A: The Black Pig
Q: After the mutiny on the Bounty, where did Christan Fletcher and his mutineers settle? A: Pitcairn Island
Q: Lucy Honeychurch is the heroine of which EM Forster novel later made into a film? A: A Room with a View
Q: Which famoust picture by Constable shows a wagon in the river near Flatford? A: The Haywain
Q: Who is the author of the Game of Thrones series of novels? A: George R R Martin
Q: Who wrote the novella A Clockwork Orange? A: Anthony Burgess
Q: Which artist is renowned  for his paintings using the splatter and drip action method? A: Jackson Pollack
Q: What is the title of the play by Arthur Miller set around the Salem Witch trials of 1692? A: The Crucible
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 1981 for Midnight's Children? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: How many pints are in a Firkin? A: 72
Q: Om which country does Singha beer originate? A: Thailand
Q: What are Pioneer, Challenger and Pilgrim varieties of? A: Varieties of Hop
Q: What year did prohibition start in the USA? A: 1920
Q: Which country (according to 2010 statistics) is the country with the highest annual capita consumption of beer? A: Czech Republic
Q: Which beer was advertised in the 1980s using scenes from the film Ice Cold in Alex? A: Carlsberg
Q: What is used to flavour the Kriek beer from Belgium? A: Cherries
Q: What beer brand encouraged you to Follow the Bear in the 1980s? A: Hofmeister
Q: What is the title of the first James Bond novel published in 1953? A: Casino Royal
Q: The Chief Electrician responsible for lighting on a film or TV set is known as what? A: Gaffer
Q: Which farm animal appears on the flag of the Falklands Islands? A: Sheep
Q: In Norse mythology, what is the name of the dwelling place of the gods? A: Asgard
Q: The Taj Mahal is in which Indian city? A: Agra
Q: In geometry, what is the name given to a triangle with two equal sides and angles? A: Isosceles
Q: The Kama Sutra was originally written in which ancient language? A: Sanskrit
Q: Under what surname did the Bronte sisters originally publish their work? A: Bell
Q: Who is the Greek god of shepherds and flocks? A: Pan
Q: Who wrote the novel Moby Dick? A: Herman Melville
Q: In the cartoon Roobarb and Custard, what colour is Custard? A: Pink
Q: Who was the 16th President of the United States of America? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: What is the correct term for a baby mackerel? A: Joey
Q: Which country does the football club Benfica come from? A: Portugal
Q: Who invented Dynamite in 1867? A: Alfred Nobel
Q: If you travel due East from New York which country would you made landfall at first? A: Portugal
Q: Who wrote the poem The Owl and the Pussycat? A: Edward Lear
Q: How many rounds are there in an Olympic boxing match? A: 4
Q: How many emirates make up the United Arab Emirates? A: 7
Q: What was the name of the experimental raft built by Thor Heyerdahl and named after an Inca Sun God? A: Kon Tiki
Q: My Name is My Bond is the motto of which London institution? A: London Stock Exchange
Q: What was the name of the bomb dropped on Nagasaki in August 1945? A: Fat Man
Q: What part of the body is affected by Uveitis? A: Eyes
Q: Who wrote the Hornblower novels? A: C S Forester
Q: Who or what may suffer from wind-sucking or crib-biting? A: Horse
Q: What is the name of the helicopter used to transport the President of the USA? A: Marine One
Q: What was the name of Francis Drake's ship in which he circumnavigated the world? A: Golden Hind
Q: Which capital city is closest to the Equator? A: Quito, Ecuador
Q: What is the highest mountain in the USA? A: Mount McKinley
Q: What is the longest river in Australia? A: River Murray
Q: How many avenues radiate from the Arc De Triomphe in Paris? A: 12
Q: Which remote island in the Outer Hebrides was evacuated in 1930 and is no longer inhabited? A: St Kilda
Q: Who was the first British Prime Minister? A: Robert Walpole
Q: Who did John Francis attempt to assassinated in 1842? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Who was the first person to cross the English Channel by aeroplane? A: Louis Bleriot
Q: At Dettingen in 1743 who was the last British monarch to lead his troops into battle? A: George II
Q: At the 1908 Olympic Games, City of London Police defeated Liverpool Polce to win gold - at what event? A: Tug of War
Q: Who took Bonnie Prince Charlie disguised as a woman from Benbecula to Skye A: Flora McDonald
Q: King Henry I reportededly died from eating a surfeit of .... what? A: Lampreys
Q: Desiree is a variety of what vegetable? A: Potato
Q: Noble Rot is a fungus affecting which fruit? A: Grapes
Q: Which animal was unknown in the west until 1869 when furs were obtained by a missionary? A: Giant Panda
Q: Which organ in the body is affected by hepatitis? A: Liver
Q: What is a mouflon a type of? A: Sheep
Q: What is the largest of the three paired muscles in the buttocks? A: Gluteus Maximus
Q: What colour does litmus paper turn in acid solutions A: Red
Q: Which planet orbits the sun at a n average distance of approximately 150 million kilometers? A: Earth
Q: Which is Britain's smallest bird of prey? A: Merlin
Q: Graham Nash left which group in 1968 to join David Crosby and Stephen Stills? A: The Hollies
Q: Who was nominated for a Best Actress Oscar for her role as Mrs Robinson in The Graduate? A: Anne Bancroft
Q: On which instrument was the theme for The Third Man performed? A: Zither
Q: What film of 1968 set in the 41st Century starred Jane Fonda and Milo O'Shea? A: Barbarella
Q: What French term is used in ballet for dancing on the tip of the toe? A: En Pointe
Q: Who sang  with Queen on their 1981 UK Number One Under Pressure? A: David Bowie
Q: Whose assassination on 28 June 1914 sparked the war? A: Archduke Franz Ferdinand
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister at the outbreak of war? A: Herbert Henry Asquith
Q: Who wrote the music for the song Keep the Home Fires Burning? A: Ivor Novello
Q: How many British troops were killed on the first day of the Battle of the Somme on 1 July 1916? A: 20,000
Q: In which country is Vimy Ridge, site of a battle in April 1917? A: Fracne
Q: Which battle does Anzac Day specifically commemorate? A: Gallipoli
Q: Who wrote You smug-faced crowds with kindling eye, who cheer when soldier lads march by.  Sneak hom and pray you'll never know, the hell where youth and laughter go? A: Siegfried Sassoon
Q: Which president was shot whilst reviewing a military parade in October 1981? A: Anwar Sadat
Q: Lee Harvey Oswald shot John F Kennedy, but who shot him? A: Jack Ruby
Q: In which year was John Lennon assassinated? A: 1980
Q: Who stabbed Jean-Paul Marat in his bath in 1793, an act which has later been seen as patriotic? A: Charlotte Corday
Q: Which is the only British Prime Minister to have been assassinated? A: Spencer Perceval
Q: Politician Airey Neave was assassinated in Westminster in 1979 - how was the killing carried out? A: Car Bomb
Q: Which British jounalist was shot outside her home in Fulham 1999? A: Jill Dando
Q: Which Gerry Anderson TV character is modelled upon James Garner? A: Troy Tempest
Q: In which fictional county would you find DCI Tom Barnaby? A: Midsomer
Q: Which board game is also known as Reversi? A: Othello
Q: Which David Essex hit was co-written by Mike Batt & Tim Rice? A: Winter's Tale
Q: Pound, cup and foot are all types of what? A: Measure
Q: A UK Number 1 for Diana Ross in March 1986 written by the Bee Gees? A: Chain Reaction
Q: Who won an Academy Award for best supporting actor forThe Fighter? A: Christian Bale
Q: An idiom meaning a no win situation came from which novel by Joseph Heller? A: Catch 22
Q: Tufted, Ruddy and Mandarin are types of which bird species? A: Duck
Q: Lapsong souchong is a type of what? A: Tea
Q: Who created the character of Brigit Jones? A: Helen Fielding
Q: Which 1949 British film featured the character of Harry Lime? A: The Third Man
Q: Who is known in Scotland as 'Duke of Rothesay' and has the middle names of Philip Arthur George? A: Prince Charles
Q: Which actor has played Guy Perron in The Jewel in the Crown (1984), Dr. Jonathan Clemens in Alien 3 (1992), Sardo Numspa in The Golden Child (1986) and Benedict in Last Action Hero (1993)? A: Charles Dance
Q: Carlos Irwin Estvez is better known by what stage name? A: Charlie Sheen
Q: What are the first names of the Saatchi brothers? (Both required for 1 point) A: Maurice and Charles
Q: Which actor has been cast opposite Dakota Johnson to play Christian Grey in the film of Fifty Shades of Grey? A: Charlie Hunnam
Q: Which hard-man American actor was married to Jill Ireland from 1968 until her death in 1990? A: Charles Bronson
Q: What is the IATA airport code for the largest airport of France? A: CDG
Q: Who sang the title song of the 1981 Bond film, becoming  the first title song artist to appear on screen in a Bond film? A: Sheena Easton
Q: For your eyes only was the 12th Bond film, and the 5th to star which actor in the lead role? A: Roger Moore
Q: Which band sang the 1982 theme tune to Rocky III, 'Eye of the Tiger'? A: Survivor
Q: What was the final film directed, produced and co-written by Stanley Kubrick, starring Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman in the lead roles? A: Eyes Wide Shut
Q: What is the more common name of the Peafowl, a species of flying birdbest known for the male's extravagant eye-spotted tail covert feathers? A: Peacock
Q: Erected in 1889, this object has become one of the most recognizable structures & the most-visited paid monument in the world? A: The Eiffel Tower
Q: Robert L May created which popular Christmas character in 1939? A: Rudolph
Q: On Christmas day in 2000, which country officially established a new National Anthem? A: Russia.
Q: Who wrote the poem Twas the night before Christmas also called "A Visit from St. Nicholas in 1822? A: Clement Clarke Moore
Q: Which saint's day is also known as Boxing Day? A: St Stephen.
Q: True or False? The German's made the first artificial Christmas tree out of Goose feathers? A: True
Q: True or False? The word mistletoe comes from the gaelic words for kissing girl plant? A: False
Q: Which comedy star plays the title character in the film Elf? A: Will Ferrel
Q: Which ancient relic was stolen by Scottish Activists from Westminster Abbey and returned to Scotland on Christmas day in 1950? A: Stone of Scone
Q: Who wrote the poem 'If'? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: At the end of the novel 'The Day Of The Triffids', on what island do the two sighted protagonists Bill Masen and Josella Payton eventually find refuge? A: Isle of Wight
Q: Which region in the Pacific ocean is also the name of a character in the Dr. Doolittle' stories? A: Polynesia
Q: Which artist is famous for his statue The Thinker'? A: Auguste Rodin
Q: Franz Hals painted his most famous work in 1624; what was it called? A: The Laughing Cavalier
Q: Who was the pilot hero of Captain W.E. Johns stories? A: Biggles
Q: Which Scottish golfer (aka Mrs Doubtfire) has won a record eight European Tour Order of Merit titles, including a streak of seven consecutively from 1993 to 1999? A: Colin Montgomerie
Q: In which town is the cartoon series 'The Simpsons' based around? A: Springfield
Q: Since 1934, the annual Golf Masters tournament is the only major played each year at the same course. Name the course? A: Augusta National Golf Club
Q: What is the often used name of the political protest of throwing a beverage into a harbour in December 1773? A: The Boston Tea Party
Q: Which American actor, who sadly passed on October 31st 1993 at the age of 23, was the older brother of Rain, Joaquin, Summer & Liberty? A: River Phoenix
Q: What was the name of the German Chancellor, the primary force behind the unification of Germany 1871, who also had a famous battleship named after him? A: Otto von Bismarck
Q: A Stephen King 1975 horror fiction novel which involves a writer (named Ben Mears) who returns to the town where he lived as a boy, to discover that the residents are all becoming vampires? A: Salem's Lot
Q: In what year was George Washington inaugurated as the first president of the United States? A: 1789
Q: How many presidents have been assassinated? A: Four
Q: Which president's First Lady opened a clinic for drug and alcohol abusers? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which president served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: Who became president following the assination of John F Kennedy in 1963? A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: Which president was married to the actress Jane Wyman? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: Who was the only president to resign from office? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who was president for the duration of the First World War? A: Thomas Woodrow Wilson
Q: What do the 1st, 3rd, 16th and 26th presidents have in common? A: Mount Rushmore
Q: Which book features the characters Passepartout, Mr Fix and Aouda? A: Around The World In Eighty Days
Q: Who wrote the classic thriller The Thirty-Nine Steps? A: John Buchan
Q: Who wrote the novel Chitty Chitty Bang Bang : The Magical Car? A: Ian Fleming
Q: Who wrote the novel Black Beauty, first published in 1877? A: Anna Sewell
Q: Which author wrote the Foundation series of science fiction novels? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: What is the first part of JRR Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings trilogy called? A: The Fellowship of the Ring
Q: Who wrote East of Eden, Of Mice and Men and The Grapes of Wrath? A: John Steinbeck
Q: Who wrote Jurassic Park, which the Spielberg film was based on? A: Michael Crichton
Q: Who wrote Three Men In A Boat? A: Jerome K Jerome
Q: Which broadsheet newspaper founded in 1821 as 'The New Observer' became the first to produce a colour supplement? A: The Sunday Times
Q: What was the title of The Beatles' first film released in 1964? A: A Hard Day's Night
Q: Which member of the Royal family divorced on April 23rd 1992 and married again 8 months later? A: Princess Anne
Q: What did 15 men led by Bruce Reynolds do on August 8th, 1963 in Ledburn, Buckinghamshire? A: The Great Train Robbery
Q: 'Live Aid' pop concerts are staged on July 13th 1985 in London and which other US city? A: Philadelphia
Q: At the 84th Academy Awards in 2012, which silent French film received ten nominations, winning five awards, including Best Picture? A: The Artist
Q: What was the name of Apollo 11's Lunar Module that landed Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin on the surface of the moon in 1969? A: Eagle
Q: In which country would you find budgerigars in their natural habitat? A: Australia
Q: What name is given to a cow that has not had a calf? A: Heifer
Q: How many walking legs does a lobster have? A: Ten
Q: From which animal do we get cashmere? A: Goats
Q: Which element is represented by the symbol 'P' in the periodic table? A: Phosphorus
Q: What is a Kerry Blue? A: A breed of dog
Q: By what name is the plant 'Atropa bella-donna' more commonly known? A: Deadly Nightshade
Q: What is the common game given to the spectacular light show the Aurora Borealis? A: The NORTHERN Lights.
Q: What was the name of the coffee house in Friends? A: CENTRAL Perk.
Q: Which London museum houses the world's largest collection of decorative and design? A: The VICTORIA and Albert Museum.
Q: In the U.S., who represents the government in the prosecution of criminal offences? A: The DISTRICT Attorney.
Q: What was the name of Stanley Kubriks landmark 1968 sci-fi blockbuster? A: 2001: A Space Odyssey
Q: Who directed Alien and Blade Runner? A: Ridley Scott
Q: Who wrote 'The War of the Worlds' which has been adapted to film on four occassions? A: H. G. Wells
Q: What was the name of the superhuman cyborg law enforcer played by Peter Weller in 1987? A: Robocop
Q: Who supplied the voice for Darth Vader in the original Star Wars trilogy between 1977 and 1983? A: James Earl Jones
Q: What was the name of the robot in 1986 smash 'Short Circuit'? A: Johnny 5
Q: Who plays Sarah Connor in the first of the Terminator movies? A: Linda Hamilton
Q: Who co-wrote,produced,directed and starred in the 1981 film Reds? A: Warren Beatty.
Q: Who was the lead singer of Simply Red? A: Mick Hucknall.
Q: The Red River is a tributary of which U.S.river? A: Mississippi.
Q: In which branch of the British Army would a Redcap serve? A: Royal Military Police.
Q: What name is given to red Bordeaux wine? A: Claret.
Q: Which toy manufacturer produces the Connect 4 game? A: Hasbro.
Q: What is the name of the high speed train service that connects London to Paris and Brussels? A: Eurostar.
Q: The film The French Connection is set in New York and which French city? A: Marseilles.
Q: Who is the host of BBC4's Only Connect? A: Victoria Coren Mitchell.
Q: What is the anatomical name given to the tube that connects the pharynx and larynx to the lungs? A: The trachea.
Q: What is the name of the strait that connects San Francisco Bay to the Pacific Ocean? A: Golden Gate.
Q: What is the name of the device that connects a computer to the internet? A: A router.
Q: The Briish Airways subsidiary BA Connect was sold to which other airline? A: Flybe.
Q: The human body has 5 basic types of taste: Sweet, Sour, Salty, Bitter and Umami. From what language do we borrow the word Umami from? A: Japanese
Q: What is the name of Heston Blumenthal's 3 Michelin starred restaurant in the UK? A: The Fat Duck
Q: Keith Floyd used the song Peaches as a theme tune for many of his cookery programmes. Which group performed this song? A: The Stranglers
Q: True or False: Apples belong to the rose family? A: TRUE
Q: One of the most hydrating foods to eat is the cucumber, which contains what percentage of water? 76%, 86% or 96%? A: 96%
Q: Which actor has played the policeman Nick Rowan in the UK TV retro soap Heartbeat'? A: Nick Berry
Q: On 1st May 2014, renowned Michelin star chef Jason Atherton opened City Social' restaurant situated on level 24 of Tower 42 in London. Who was the previous highly rated chef to run a restaurant at this location? A: Gary Rhodes
Q: In which city was the world's biggest McDonalds fast food restaurant opened in 2012? A: London
Q: Which of Shakespeare's plays begins with the words `If music be the food of love, play on`? A: Twelfth Night
Q: The Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio was set up on October 16 1923 by Walt Disney and his brother, what was his brothers' first name? A: Roy
Q: The company trademark incorporates the character Mickey Mouse, but was Mickey's original screen name? A: Mortimer
Q: Which 1940 film was the first commercial film to be shown in stereophonic sound? A: Fantasia
Q: In which year (+/- 2 years) was the original Disneyland resort to open to the general public? A: 1955
Q: Which is the only one of the 7(seven) Dwarfs not to have a beard? A: Dopey
Q: How old was Walt Disney when he died on December 15 1966? (+/- 5 years) A: 65 years old
Q: Which actor originally voiced the 1995 Toy Story character 'Woody'? A: Tom Hanks
Q: Walt Disney holds the record for most Oscar nominations at 59. How many of these were converted into Oscar awards? (+/- two) A: 22 awards
Q: What is the name of the Griffin's family dog in Seth MacFarlane's cartoon series 'Family Guy'? A: Brian
Q: What name is given to unsolicited or undesired electronic messages? A: Spam
Q: In Arthurian legend for what was 'The Fisher King' responsible? A: Holy Grail
Q: Which theory of behavioural science states that 'Positive reinforcement and indirect suggestion to achieve non-forced compliance can be more effective than direct legislation'? A: Nudge
Q: Who was the only English winner of the World Snooker championships in the 1990's? A: John Parrott
Q: Which iconic symbol of American independence is found in Philadelphia? A: Liberty Bell
Q: The Malvern Hills are located in which three English counties? A: WORCESTERSHIRE, Herefordshire and Gloucestershire.
Q: What was the name of the British figure skater who was 1976 Olympic and World Champion? A: John CURRY.
Q: Which rock band had a hit with  (Don't fear) The reaper? A: Blue OYSTER Cult.
Q: What is the name of G.K. Chesterton's detective priest? A: Father BROWN.
Q: The creation of the county of Cumbria saw the disappearance of which two former counties? A: CUMBERLAND and Westmorland.
Q: In the Christian Eucharist, which two items represent the body and blood of Jesus Christ? A: BREAD and wine.
Q: Which Nobel prize winner was offered the presidency of Israel? A: ALBERT Einstein
Q: Which gunfight resulted in the deaths is Tom and Frank McLaury and Billy Clanton? A: The Gunfight at the O.K Corral.
Q: The Ishihara test is used to test for which condition? A: Colour blindness.
Q: Trinity was the code name for the first testing of what? A: Atom bomb.
Q: In chemistry, what test is used to determine the acidity or alkalinity of a solution? A: Litmus test.
Q: Soul Limbo is used as the theme tune for which radio programme? A: Test match special.
Q: In the 1976 Olympics, who was the only competitor not to have a sex test? A: Princess Anne.
Q: What is the name of the test given to newborn babies to determine their condition? A: Apgar test.
Q: And currently, at what age are taxis required to have an MOT certificate? A: One year.
Q: Which singer nicknamed The Boss' had a cameo in the 2000 film HighFidelity' A: Bruce Springsteen
Q: Who plays Captain Jack Sparrow's father Edward Teague in the Pirates of the Caribbean films? A: Keith Richards
Q: Which Country and western singer played the character Whistler' in the Blade Films A: Kris Kristofferson
Q: Who appears as God in the 1999 film Dogma'? A: Alanis Morrisette
Q: True or false, Bobby Brown has a cameo in the film Ghostbusters 2'? A: TRUE
Q: Which member of the group All Saints appeared in Bend it like Beckham'? Shaznay Lewis or Nicole Appleton?7 A: Shaznay Lewis
Q: Which Brit-pop singer made his acting debut in the 1997 film Face'? A: Damon Albarn
Q: Dwayne Johnson is better known by which nickname A: The Rock
Q: Name the voice actor most famous for Winnie the Pooh, Kaa in Jungle Book, & Mr Stork in Dumbo. A: Stirling Holloway
Q: Which caves are a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), near Wells in Somerset A: Wookie Hole
Q: In woodwork, what are butt, dovetail & mitre A: Joints
Q: Which car manufacturer has produced the Taunus, Laser & Thunderbird models A: Ford
Q: Name the third light blue property on a Monopoly board, that joins The Angel Islington & Euston Road. A: Pentonville Road
Q: What is the commonest bird in Britain? A: The wren.
Q: On which island was the now extinct Elephant bird found? A: Madagascar.
Q: A pandemonium is the collective noun for which order of birds? A: Parrots.
Q: Which bird has the Latin name Puffinus puffinus? A: Manx shearwater.
Q: In the video game who are the antagonists of the Angry Birds? A: Pigs.
Q: Who famously said I spent a lot of money on booze,birds and fast cars, the rest I just squandered? A: George Best.
Q: In which film can you the Sulaco spacship A: Aliens
Q: In which TV series would you find the Liberator A: Blakes 7
Q: In which film will you find the Rodger Young A: Starship Troopers
Q: In which film will you find the space craft called Churchill A: Lifeforce
Q: In which film will you find the Jupiter 2 spaceship A: Lost In Space
Q: In which film can you find the Oberon spaceship A: Planet of the Apes
Q: What was the surly debut single from Magic A: Rude
Q: Released in September 2014 which Labrinth song sounds like it should be in your Beatles Collection A: Let It Be
Q: Which cheery Pharell Williams song was used on Despicable Me 2 soundtrack A: Happy
Q: Which John Legend song knocked Pharell Willams completely off the No.1 spot on the US Billboard A: All Of Me
Q: Which accusing Calvin Harris song reached No1 on the UK Singles Chart on 14th Sept 2014 A: Blame
Q: Name the scarey debut Single from Ella Henderson released in June 2014 A: Ghost
Q: Released in August 2014, which noisy song from Jessie J features Ariana Grande and Nicki Minaj A: Bang Bang
Q: Released in July 2014, which deadly song is from Iggy Azalea and features Rita Ora A: Black Widow
Q: Which battle is commonly referred to as Custer's Last Stand? A: Little Big Horn.
Q: What is the last book of the Old Testament? A: Malachi.
Q: Who wrote the book Last of the Mohicans? A: James Fenimore Cooper.
Q: Which football team were the last to win the English football league Division One? A: Leeds United.
Q: What mission number was the last Apollo lunar landing? A: 17.
Q: Which band's debut single was Last Train to Clarksville? A: The Monkees.
Q: Who created the television series Last of the Summer Wine? A: Roy Clarke.
Q: In which month does The Last Night of the Proms take place? A: September.
Q: What is the first name of cricket umpire Dickie Bird A: Harold
Q: Which US President's wife was known as Bird A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: Who starred alongside Rod Taylor in Hitchcock's movie The Birds A: Tippi Hedren
Q: The Birds were a 60s R&B; group, but name their guitarist who went on to bigger things, and still tours in 2014 A: Ronnie Wood
Q: The birdeating spider (the largest spider in the world is found in what part of the world A: South America
Q: Who is credited with organising the first package holidays? A: Thomas COOK.
Q: Strawberry tongue is a characteristic of which (colourful) disease? A: SCARLET fever.
Q: Which U.S. band had hits with Sylvia's mother and  A little bit more? A: Dr. HOOK.
Q: What is the name of the film director whose films include Bladerunner and Gladiator? A: Ridley SCOTT.
Q: In Arthurian legend, what is the name of the enchantress who is Arthur's half sister? A: MORGAN le Fey.
Q: Which Disney film includes the characters Bubbles,Crush and Mr Ray? A: Finding NEMO.
Q: Which U.S. actor played the title role in  Spartacus ? A: KIRK Douglas.
Q: Who starred as Gracie Hart in the 2000 film Miss Congeniality? A: Sandra Bullock.
Q: In which Dickens novel does Miss Havisham appear? A: Great Expectations.
Q: In the 1989 film, who was Driving Miss Daisy? A: Morgan Freeman.
Q: Where does Agatha Christie's Miss Marple live? A: St.Mary Mead.
Q: The musical Miss Saigon is based on which Puccini opera? A: Madame Butterfly.
Q: Miss Phillipines, Mary Jean Lastimosa currently holds which title? A: Miss Universe.
Q: What is the sunsme of The Muppets Miss Piggy? A: Lee
Q: Which Greek hero set off on a quest to find the golden fleece? A: Jason
Q: Which God did the ancient Egyptians believe protected the souls of the dead? A: Anubis
Q: Who was the Roman God of doorways, gates and passageways? A: Janus
Q: In Norse myth, what was the name of Odin's eight- legged horse? A: Sleipnir
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the mother (and later wife) of King Oedipus? A: Queen Jocasta of Thebes
Q: In Norse mythology who was the shield maiden cursed to sleep within a circle of fire? A: Brunhilde
Q: Which Greek warrior and hero killedthe monster called the Chimera? A: Bellerophon
Q: In Roman legend, which animals are said to have saved Rome from a surprise attack by raising an alarm? A: Geese
Q: Picture This, Blondies 1978 single was taken from which number one album? A: Parallel Lines.
Q: Who wrote the novel Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man? A: James Joyce.
Q: Who wrote the story collection Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog? A: Dylan Thomas.
Q: In which U.S. state is the Painted Desert ? A: Arizona.
Q: Who wrote the novel  The Picture of Dorian Grey? A: Oscar Wilde.
Q: What type of creature is a Painted Lady? A: Butterfly.
Q: By what other name is the Flying Fox known? A: The FRUIT Bat.
Q: From what material is the Taj Mahal constructed? A: White MARBLE.
Q: Which Scottish football club is nicknamed The Arabs? A: DUNDEE United.
Q: which region of the earth's stratosphere traps most of the sun's UV radiation? A: The Ozone LAYER.
Q: What is the name of the trophy awarded to the NHL Play-off winners? A: Stanley CUP.
Q: What name is given to the Northumberland dish consisting of layered potato,onion and cheese? A: PAN Haggerty.
Q: Who played the female lead in the 1933 movie King Kong? A: Fay Wray
Q: Which song, released by Elton John as a single in 1975, was a tribute to tennis player Billie Jean King? A: Philadelphia Freedom
Q: In the US cartoon series King of the Hill, what is Hank Hill's profession? A: Propane salesman
Q: Who succeeded Mervyn King, Governor of the Bank of England until 2013? A: Mark Carney
Q: Who played television character Jason King in the early 1970s? A: Peter Wyngarde
Q: Martin Luther King was assassinated in 1968 while standing on the balcony of which type of building? A: A motel
Q: The Last King of Scotland was a 2006 movie, that featured which African leader in the storyline? A: Idi Amin
Q: Who was the singer and voice artist behind King Louis in the cartoon version of Jungle Book? A: Louis Prima
Q: Name the Ancient Greek Muse of Dance? A: Terpsichore
Q: Who was the oldest man in the Old Testament? A: Methusala
Q: What is the chemical symbol for Gold? A: Au
Q: What is the speed of light (in miles per second)? A: 186,000
Q: In science fiction, who formulated the Three Laws of Robotics? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: What is the name of the highest mountain in Great Britain? A: Ben Nevis
Q: What is the chemical symbol for Silver? A: Ag
Q: Which U.S. Serial Killer was nicknamed The Killer Clown? A: John Wayne Gacy
Q: From which plant do we derive the drug Digitalis? A: Foxglove
Q: How many centimetres are there in a 'Hand', the measurement used on horses? A: 10
Q: What were the names of the 3 Bronte sisters? A: Anne, Charlotte and Emily
Q: What is a traditional Welsh stew usually made using lamb, leeks, potato, swede and carrot A: Cawl
Q: Which Irish dish is made by combining mashed potatoes, chopped spring onions, butter and milk A: Champ
Q: Which traditional Irish loaf is made using flour, bicarbonate of soda and buttermilk A: Soda Bread
Q: Which traditional dessert is made from strawberries, broken meringue and cream A: Eton Mess
Q: Which Scottish soup is made from smoked haddock, potatoes and onions A: Cullen Skink
Q: What do we call, particular to one county, an elongated suet crust with a savoury filling at one end and a sweet filling at the other A: Bedfordshire Clanger
Q: From what type of wood was Pinocchio carved? A: Pine.
Q: In the kid's TV series Rainbow - what kind of animal was George meant to be? A: Hippo.
Q: Which ventriloquist was Lord Charles' sidekick? A: Ray Allen.
Q: In which TV series did the Muppets first appear? A: Sesame Street.
Q: What is the name of the dog in Punch and Judy? A: Toby.
Q: In which Gerry Anderson TV series did Mike Mercury appear? A: Supercar.
Q: In Thunderbirds what was the unnamed villain known as? A: The Hood.
Q: In the Sooty show what kind of animal was Ramsbottom? A: Snake.
Q: Who wrote and performed as Captain Kremmen A: Kenny Everett
Q: Who captained the whaling ship Pequod A: Captain Ahab
Q: Captain Cook is a geographical area which grows coffee on which island A: Hawaii
Q: Which Belgian cartoonist created Captain Haddock A: Herge
Q: What is the name of Captain Mainwaring's wife A: Elizabeth
Q: Captain John Francis McIntyre is a fictional TV character, better known by what name A: Trapper
Q: Who played the title character in the film Hook A: Dustin Hoffman
Q: Who was captain of HMS Bounty at the time of the famous mutiny A: Captain Bligh
Q: How long does it take from light from the Sun to travel to Earth? A: 8 minutes and 20 seconds
Q: On average who's hearts beat faster; men or women? A: Women
Q: The Rovers Return is now a free house but is still supplied by which brewery? A: Newton & Ridley
Q: What is the name of the inn where Jim Hawkins lives at the start of Trwasure Island? A: The Admiral Benbow
Q: What was the name of the local in Only Fools And Horses? A: Nag's head
Q: This Cornish pub is the name of a Daphne du Maurier novel and Alfred Hitchcock film. A: Jamaica Inn
Q: What is the name of the Edinburgh pub favoured by Ian Rankin's Inspector Rebus? A: The Oxford Bar
Q: Shaun of the Dead and Minder featured watering holes with what name common to both? A: The Winchester
Q: What is the second book of the bible? A: Exodus
Q: What is the second book in the Harry Potter series? A: The Chamber of Secrets
Q: Who was the second president of the USA? A: John Adams
Q: What is the second planet from the sun? A: Venus
Q: What is the second letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Beta
Q: What is the second element in the periodic table? A: Helium
Q: What is the second film in the Indiana Jones franchise? A: Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
Q: Who wrote the novel Dracula, published in 1897? A: Abraham Bram Stoker
Q: In legend, vampires are unable to cross a threshold without being invited.  What other natural barrier are they unable to cross? A: Running water
Q: Which British film company produced many vampire movies in the 1960's and 70's? A: Hammer
Q: Which famous horror movie star was buried in his Dracula costume? A: Bela Lugosi
Q: Which Hungarian Countess is reputed to have killed over 600 women in order to bathe in their blood? A: Countess Elizabeth Bathory
Q: On average, who has the faster/sharpest reflexes? A: Women
Q: What was the first name of Bond Villan Mr Scaramanga from 'The Man With The Golden Gun'? A: Francisco
Q: Grace Jones played May Day in which film? A: A View to a Kill
Q: Who sang the theme song in the film 'From Russia with Love'? A: Matt Monro
Q: George Lazenby's only Bond film was 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service'. Who played  Blofeld in that film? A: Telly Savalas
Q: Which character has been played among others by Jack Lord, Cec Linder, David Hedison and Jeffrey Wright? A: Felix Leiter
Q: Which singer had a cameo as a fencing instructor in 'Die Another Day'? A: Madonna
Q: Which was the last film in which Desmond Llewelyn played Q? A: The World Is Not Enough
Q: Which Olympic silver medallist played Oddjob in Goldfinger? A: Harold Sakata
Q: Which was the first James Bond film directed by Sam Mendes? A: Skyfall
Q: Sean Connery returned as 007 in 'Never Say Never Again' but on which of Ian Fleming's books was the film based? A: Thunderball
Q: What is the capital city of the Kingdom of the Netherlands? A: Amsterdam
Q: Which river traditionally forms the border between England and Scotland ? A: The River Tweed
Q: Which actress played Samantha in the comedy series Bewitched A: Elizabeth Montgomery
Q: Which 1965 movie, remade in 2004, involved the survival of passengers after their plane crashed in the desert. A: Flight of the Phoenix
Q: Which sports stadium has the highest seating capacity in the world (at 247,000) A: Indianapolis Speedway
Q: Which car manufacturer's current range includes the Navigator, MKX & MKC models A: Lincoln
Q: Which singer died in a crash of his own experimental aircraft A: John Denver
Q: What was the character name of Commander Shore's daughter in the 60's series Stingray (voiced by Lois Maxwell) A: Atlanta
Q: Who had hits with Wishin' and Hopin and You don't have to say you love me A: Dusty Springfield
Q: Which X-Men character has the real name of Ororo Munroe? A: STORM
Q: Which English alternate rock band released the album called "Tilt" in 1999? A: The LIGHTNING Seeds
Q: What is the official Presidential Anthem of the United States? A: HAIL to the Chief
Q: Which children's cartoon series featured characters called Lion-O, Cheetara, Panthro and Tygra? A: THUNDERcats
Q: To complain or find fault in a petty or disagreeable way; a peevish complaint? A: Carp
Q: Who was the first woman in Space? A: Valentina Tereshkova
Q: Who was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize? A: Marie Curie
Q: Who was the first woman to win a Best Director 'Oscar'? A: Kathryn Bigelow
Q: Which country was the first to grant all adult women the right to vote for it's Parliament? A: New Zealand in 1893
Q: Which shark-infested movie was the first to take $100 million at the box office? A: Jaws
Q: In Toy story, which of Woddys' boots has Andy's name written on it? A: The right one
Q: Bruce Willis is best known for his role of John McCain in which film series? A: Die Hard
Q: In what film would you find bookstore owner William Thacker and Hollywood superstar Anna Scott? A: Notting Hill
Q: What 1997 film was the highest grossing film of the 90's decade? A: Titanic
Q: What was Roger Moore's first film as James Bond? A: Live and Let Die
Q: What Disney film features the best belling song of 2014 Let It Go'? A: Frozen
Q: Monica and Ross Geller were brother and sister in which long running American television series? A: F.R.I.E.N.D.S
Q: Phil Redmond created with UK Television Soap Opera 18 years ago? A: Hollyoaks
Q: In what Soap would you expect to find Miffield Hall later renamed to Home Farm Manor? A: Emmerdale
Q: What Netflix exclusive programme chronicles the life of Piper Chapman and her experiences in an American State Prison? A: Orange is the New Black
Q: Neighbours is set Melbourne in the fictional suburb of Erinsborough but what is the name of the road in which it is set? A: Ramsey Street
Q: In which reality show would you expect to find siblings Kim, Khloe, Kortney, Kendell, Kylie and Rob? A: Keeping up with the Kardashians
Q: Faulty Towers ran for a total of four years, but how many episodes were produced and released? A: 12
Q: What is a soldier or airman assigned to a commissioned officer as a personal servant called? A: Batman
Q: According to the poet Dante, for whom were the tortures of the sixth Circle of Hell reserved? A: Heretics
Q: What is the sixth letter of the Greek alphabet? A: zeta
Q: What is the sixth planet in our Solar System? A: Saturn
Q: What is the name of the visit attraction in Bodelva, Cornwall, where biodomes house plants from around the world? A: The Eden Project
Q: What was the name for the Zimbabwean Capital 'Harare' before 1982? A: Salisbury
Q: What was the surname of the lead character in the 'Dirty Harry' series of movies? A: Harry Callahan
Q: What is the name of the home ground of Queen of the South Football Club in Dumfries, Scotland? A: Palmerston Park
Q: What is the name of the clerical detective created by G.K. Chesterton? A: Father Brown
Q: What is the real name of Actor/Comedian Robbie Coltrane? A: Anthony McMillan
Q: What was the real name of author George Orwell? A: Eric Arthur Blair
Q: What links Gerry Rafferty to Sherlock Holmes? A: Baker Street
Q: Whose grave in Winchelsea bears the epitaph "I told you I was ill"? A: Spike Milligan
Q: Where is there a barber showing photographs of every head he's had the pleasure to know? A: Penny Lane
Q: What fictional character lives at 32 Windsor Gardens? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What is the only London station to span the Thames, with entrances on both sides of the river? A: Blackfriars
Q: Which city connects the headquarters of OPEC, the burial place of Beethoven, and Rigsby's cat in Rising Damp? A: Vienna
Q: Which skier spectacularly summersaulted through 2 barriers, landing on his head, in the downhill race at the winter Olympics in Nagano. Then went on to win 2 gold medals a few days later? A: Hermann Maier
Q: What is the significant total reached when all the numbers on a roulette wheel are added together? A: 666
Q: Who is the only player to have played in both a football and cricket world cup? A: Sir Viv Richards
Q: Which sport features the terms cow corner, a featherbed, dibbly dobbly and a sticky dog? A: Cricket
Q: What will be the first city to host the summer and winter Olympics, after being chosen to stage the 2022 Winter Games? A: Beijing
Q: Who was the first unseeded player to win the Men's Wimbledon Singles Title? A: Boris Becker
Q: Who played Gary's flatmate in the first series of Men Behaving Badly? A: Harry Enfield.
Q: Which sitcom actor and comedian fell off a treadmill in Peter Kay's version of Amarillo for Comic Relief? A: Ronnie Corbett
Q: In which sitcom did Nicolas Lindhurst first gain national recognition? A: Butterflies
Q: Which company was founded in a draper's shop in Glasgow in 1849? A: House of Fraser
Q: What is the alcoholic beverage similar to cider which is made from fermented pears? A: Perry
Q: What former monetary unit was equal to a quarter of an old penny? A: Farthing
Q: What is the name of the pig in Animal Farm? A: Napoleon
Q: What was David Bowie's real name? A: David Jones
Q: Which sports commentator wrote the autobiography Unless I'm Very Much Mistaken? A: Murray Walker
Q: Who replaced Anneka Rice in the TV programme Treasure Hunt? A: Annabel Croft
Q: Which is England's highest mountain? A: Scafell Pike
Q: During the 1980s, which drink was promoted with the advertising slogan, 'the totally tropical taste'? A: Lilt
Q: Which 70s band that has recently been reformed by lead singer Les McKeown? A: Bay City Rollers
Q: What creature is carved into the handle of Mary Poppins' umbrella? A: A parrot
Q: There have been 12 prime ministers during the queen's reign. How many of them were Conservative? A: 8
Q: What links a village in Oxfordshire, a game show that was presented by Jasper Carrott, and David Beckham? A: Golden Balls
Q: When asked where should one wear perfume, who replied "Wherever one wants to be kissed" A: Coco Chanel
Q: Which sit com actor went on to play the original Phantom in the West End and Broadway? A: Michael Crawford
Q: Which 80s pop act had their Grammy revoked for not singing the vocals on their album? A: Milli Vanilli
Q: Which book published in 1988 and winner of the Whitbread Award, was the centre of a major international controversy? A: The Satanic Verses
Q: Where did the Ossis and the Wessis meet for the first time in 28 years, in 1989? A: The Berlin Wall
Q: Sue Johnston and Ricky Tomlinson play Jim and Barbara Royle in the Royle Family, but which other well known married couple did they play in the 80's? A: Bobby and Sheila Grant
Q: Which 1981 song contains the lyrics " And I've lost my light. For I toss and turn, I can't sleep at night"? A: Tainted Love
Q: Charlotte, Desiree and Rooster are varieties of which type of vegetable? A: Potato
Q: What rebellious event was organised in 1773 by the Sons of Liberty as a protest against taxation without representation? A: Boston Tea Party
Q: What is the spirit that is used in the cocktails Mai Tai and Daiquiri? A: Rum
Q: Which biennial sporting fixture was cancelled due to 9/11? A: Ryder Cup
Q: The rights to which children's book were bequeathed to the Great Ormond Street Hospital in 1929? A: Peter Pan
Q: Kopi Luwak, produced mainly in Indonesia, and a waste product of the civet, is the most expensive variety of what? A: Coffee
Q: Who had a hit song in the late 60s with Hazy Shade Of Winter? A: Simon & Garfunkel
Q: Winterfell is the house of what family in Game of Thrones? A: Stark
Q: What cocktail's original recipe contains the spirits tequila, vodka, light rum, triple sec, and gin, and has an alcohol content of 22%? A: Long Island Ice Tea
Q: How many flakes of snow have to fall in the 24 hours of the 25th December anywhere in the UK to be classified as a White christmas? A: One
Q: Which book was made into a 26 minute animated TV special in 1982, and had David Bowie as the narrator in the US version? A: The Snowman
Q: What sweet was first advertised 30 years ago featuring a polar bear? A: Fox's Glacier Mints
Q: Which 1983 film starring Glen Close, Jeff Goldbloom, Kevin Kline and Tom Berenger was nominated for 3 Oscars, including Best Picture? A: The Big Chill
Q: A character in the sitcom Friends, or a provisioner of candles and soaps? A: Chandler
Q: A famous guitarist, or an young attendant upon a person of rank? A: Page
Q: A TV series starring Bill Maynard in the early 80's, or the electrician in charge of a film set? A: Gaffer
Q: The actress who played Mindy in Mork and Mindy, or an artisan builder of clay walls using straw? A: Dawber
Q: Ronnie Barker in Open All Hours, or a craftsman who produced wooden chests? A: Arkwright
Q: This character lived at 11 Coronation Street, and is also the name of a leather maker? A: Tanner
Q: Which British mathematician created a basic computer in 1835? A: Charles Babbage
Q: Of what is Selenology the study? A: The moon
Q: Which is the oldest theatre in current use in London? A: The Theatre Royal, Drury Lane.
Q: What is produced in a ginnery? A: Cotton
Q: Which English Queen had 17 children and outlived all of them? A: Queen Anne
Q: Which Carry-On actor starred in Bless This House? A: Sid James
Q: What was the occupation of Casanova? A: Librarian
Q: What is the name for small round pieces of lamb, or chocolates with hazelnuts? A: Noisettes
Q: Who narrated the Mr Men series? A: Arthur Lowe
Q: Mick Robertson and Jenny Handley presented which Children's TV Programme? A: Magpie
Q: In Sex in the City, what was Carrie's last name? A: Bradshaw
Q: Who hosted Call My Bluff? A: Robin Ray
Q: What was Coronation Street originally to be called? A: Florizel Street
Q: Who starred alongside Polly James in the first series of The Liver Birds? A: Pauline Collins
Q: What was the name of the character played by Frances de la Tour in Rising Damp? A: Miss Jones
Q: 1313 Webfoot Walk, Duckburg, Calisota A: Donald Duck
Q: Apt 56B, Whitehaven Mansions, Sandhurst Sq, London A: Hercule Poirot
Q: 52 Festive Road, Putney, London A: Mr Benn
Q: 1313 Mockingbird Lane, Mockingbird Heights, USA. A: The Munsters
Q: What name was given to privateers, authorized to conduct raids on shipping of a nation at war with France, on behalf of the French crown? A: Corsairs
Q: In 2002, who filed for divorce from his wife Lisa Marie Presley after being married for just three months? A: Nicolas Cage
Q: What was the original name of Wembley Stadium? A: Empire Stadium
Q: Charles-douard Jeanneret-Gris  was better known as who? A: Le Corbusier
Q: Which British aircraft manufacturer produced the Spitfire? A: Supermarine
Q: Who said When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: What was Marble Arch in London originally designed to be? A: The entrance to Buckingham Palace.
Q: Winner in a poll of Classic FM's most popular piece of music in 2016, which composer also wrote A London Symphony A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: Who resides in Mansion House? A: The Lord Mayor of London
Q: Canary Wharf is in what London borough? A: Tower Hamlets
Q: Which battle of 1066 is also the name of a football ground? A: Stamford Bridge
Q: Statues of which political leader stand in Tavistock Square and Parliament Square? A: Gandhi
Q: What is the name of London's largest underground river? A: Fleet
Q: Which area of London is believed to derive its name from a former hunting cry? A: Soho
Q: Which sea has no coast? A: The Sargasso Sea
Q: Which Royal dynasty followed the Normans? A: Plantagenet
Q: Hans Riegel of Bonn, Germany, formed which confectionary company in 1920? A: Haribo
Q: In the Harry Potter books, what type of mythical creature is 'Fawkes'? A: Phoenix
Q: The songs 'Tell Me It's Not True' and 'Marilyn Monroe' come from which stage musical? A: Blood Brothers
Q: What name is given to a folded pizza? A: Calzone
Q: Which poet was buried standing upright in Westminster Abbey? A: Ben Johnson
Q: Pierre Basile fired the crossbow that caused the death of which English king? A: Richard I
Q: Which Beatles song was commissioned by the BBC to represent the United Kingdom in the first global satellite television link? A: All you need is love
Q: Who played lead guitar on While My Guitar Gently Weeps, on The White Album? A: Eric Clapton
Q: What was the name of the US stadium where the Beatles played their last ever live concert? A: Candlestick Park
Q: Which Album cover features 5 Beatles? A: Abbey Road
Q: For whom did Paul McCartney write Hey Jude? A: Julian Lennon
Q: What are the two States that are rectangular? A: Colorado and Wyoming
Q: What is the longest river in the USA ? A: Missouri
Q: What State was purchased from Russia in 1867 for 7.2 million dollars? A: Alaska
Q: Which Oscar nominated film of 2014 chronicles Martin Luther King's campaign to secure equal voting rights via an epic march? A: Selma
Q: Who was the last British King to rule over the US colonies? A: King George III
Q: What drink was invented by pharmacist Caleb Bradham in North Carolina in 1893, and marketed under the heading Delicious and Healthful? A: Pepsi-Cola
Q: The Path Of The Righteous Man quote from the film Pulp Fiction comes from which Book of the Bible? A: Ezekiel
Q: Which 2004 movie mapped the journey across South America by a young Che Guevara? A: The Motorcycle Diaries
Q: Which film contains the line I'm going to cut your heart out with a spoon! A: Robin Hood:Prince of Thieves
Q: Which country singer's story was filmed as The Coalminers Daughter in 1980? A: Loretta Lynn
Q: What was the name of the Yorkshire pub featured in the 1981 movie An American Werewolf in London? A: The Slaughtered Lamb
Q: In 1919, Chaplin formed United Artists with 3 other Hollywood greats. Name one. A: Douglas Fairbanks , Mary Pickford and D W Griffith
Q: How many roles did Alec Guinness play in Kind Hearts And Coronets? A: 8
Q: The Life of Brian was produced by Handmade Films. Who owned Handmade Films? A: George Harrison
Q: Which film still hold the record for using the highest number of extras? A: Gandhi
Q: What character has been played by Robert Donat in 1935, Kenneth More in 1959 and Robert Powell in 1978? A: Richard Hannay
Q: A novel by Irvine Welsh set in Edinburgh was made into which 1996 film? A: Trainspotting
Q: The multi Oscar winning Chariots of Fire was based on the lives of which 2 athletes? A: Eric Liddell and Harold Abrahams
Q: Which 1985 romantic comedy starring Alexandra Pigg and Margi Clarke was set in Liverpool? A: Letter To Brezhnev
Q: Peter Howitt is probably best known for playing the part of Joey Boswell in Bread, but what film did he write the screenplay for, and direct in 1998? A: Sliding Doors
Q: Which 80s Top 10 hit begins with the line I was happy in the haze of a drunken hour? A: Heaven Knows Im Miserable Now
Q: Which comedian was the host of the short lived Channel 4 programme, TV Heaven Telly Hell? A: Sean Lock
Q: The band Heaven 17 took their name from which Stanley Kubrick film? A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: According to the famous line, hell hath no fury like what? A: A woman scorned
Q: What was the subtitle of the 3rd film in the Hellraiser series of films? A: Hell On Earth
Q: What was the title of Maria McKees only UK number 1, due to its use in the film Days Of Thunder? A: Show Me Heaven
Q: What was the catchphrase of the Hanna-Barbera character Snagglepuss? A: Heavens to Murgatroyd
Q: Ron Perlman plays which comic book superhero in 2 films of the Noughties? A: Hellboy
Q: Brother Bones' whistled version of which song is the Harlem Globetrotter's signature? A: Sweet Georgia Brown.
Q: Which Dan Brown novel  is the first to feature Robert Langdon? A: Angels and Demons.
Q: In which US state is the Ivy League Brown University? A: Providence Rhode Island
Q: Who actress played Sister Sarah Brown in the1955 musical film Guys and Dolls? A: Jean Simmons.
Q: Who was the lead singer of the band whose only UK chart topper was  So you win again A: Errol Brown.
Q: Italian gynaecologist Doctor Giorgio Fischer invented which surgical procedure in 1974? A: Liposuction
Q: Vatsyayana completed which erotic piece of work in 400 AD? A: Kama Sutra
Q: A stogie is a cheap, thin what? A: Cigar
Q: What is the name of Inspector Gadgets dog in the childrens tv cartoon series Inspector Gadget? A: Brain
Q: What is the chemical compound Calcium Oxide commonly known as? A: Quicklime (or burnt lime)
Q: In the human body, the hallux is more commonly known by what name? A: Big toe
Q: The wool of a Shahtoosh shawl comes from which endangered animal? A: Tibetan antelope (or Chiru)
Q: The boxer Sonny Liston appears on the cover of which Beatles album? A: Sgt Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band
Q: Which French sculptor died in November 1917? A: Auguste Rodin
Q: Air & Style and X-Trail Jam are events in which sport? A: Snowboarding
Q: Lester B. Pearson became Prime Minister of which country in April 1963? A: Canada
Q: The conflict between rival political factions the Girondins and the Jacobins, during the French Revolution, was known as The Reign of what? A: Terror
Q: The liqueur Maraschino is flavoured with which fruit? A: Cherries
Q: Piemont and Lombardy are regions in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Fakt is the biggest-selling daily newspaper in which European country? A: Poland
Q: The headquarters of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) are in which European city? A: Paris
Q: Who was the first black footballer to play for England? A: Viv Anderson
Q: In which year was singer Elvis Presley born? A: 1935
Q: Bert Handy, Penny Panting and Lily Duveen are all characters in which Carry On film? A: Carry On Regardless
Q: The 2004 Chuetsu Earthquakes occurred in which country? A: Japan
Q: David McConnell was the founder of which cosmetics company in 1886? A: Avon
Q: The poisonous fungus Amanita Phalloides is better known by what name? A: The Death Cap
Q: Which Polish-born astronomer proposed that the planets orbit the sun, and was later proved right? A: Copernicus
Q: What is the US state capital of Connecticut? A: Hartford
Q: The Gruesome Twosome are characters in which childrens tv cartoon series? A: Wacky Races
Q: The Black Paintings is the name given to a group of paintings by which Spanish artist? A: Francisco Goya
Q: Who was the last British monarch to sack a British Prime Minister? A: William IV
Q: Caen is the capital of which French Department? A: Calvados
Q: Relating to weather, cirrus is a type of what? A: Cloud
Q: In the British tv series Rising Damp, what is Rigsbys first name? A: Rupert
Q: What does the Latin phrase Ad vitam translate to in English? A: For life
Q: The first Eurovision Song Contest was held in which European country in 1956? A: Switzerland
Q: Mount Waas is in which US State? A: Utah
Q: Mrs Chippy was the name of the ships cat aboard which vessel used by Ernest Shackleton for his Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition? A: Endurance
Q: Best of Both Worlds by Miley Cyrus is the theme song to which US tv show? A: Hannah Montana
Q: A moderate breeze is which number on The Beaufort Scale? A: 4
Q: The sixpenny coin ceased to be legal tender in Britain during which year? A: 1980
Q: How many wings does a honeybee have? A: Four
Q: In the novel by Daniel Defoe, for how many years was Robinson Crusoe shipwrecked? A: 28
Q: Uranium deposit Rum Jungle is in which Australian state? A: Northern Territory
Q: Albino, Grimshaw and Plachutta are terms used in which game? A: Chess
Q: The resort town of Sliema is on which Mediterranean island? A: Malta
Q: In the Bible, what is the Decalogue more commonly known as? A: The Ten Commandments
Q: Now what I want is, Facts is the opening line of which Charles Dickens novel? A: Hard Times
Q: In British currency, how many pre-decimal pennies were in a pound? A: 240
Q: The Kirin is a supernatural spirit in the mythology of which country? A: Japan
Q: Hoss, Little Joe and Ben are characters in which US tv series? A: Bonanza
Q: Harold and Louise were the parents of which member of The Beatles? A: George Harrison
Q: In the book by Miguel de Cervantes, who was Don Quixotes squire? A: Sancho Panza
Q: American Buff, Pilgrim and Cotton Patch are breeds of which bird? A: Goose
Q: Mercredi is French for which day of the week? A: Wednesday
Q: 22 What Avenue is the title of a song by Iron Maiden? A: Acacia
Q: Which A is a bright blue colour, often associated with a clear, unclouded sky? A: Azure
Q: Axilla is the scientific term for which part of the body? A: Armpit
Q: Which A is a liqueur originally distilled from wine and wormwood? A: Absinthe
Q: Which A is an account of the life of a person, written by that person? A: Autobiography
Q: Which Greek god was the twin brother of Artemis? A: Apollo
Q: In the religious calendar which A is the first day of Lent? A: Ash Wednesday
Q: Which sign of the Zodiac is represented by the ram? A: Aries
Q: According to the Bible, which A was the last battle between good and evil before the Day of Judgement? A: Armageddon
Q: In humans, which A is another term for memory loss? A: Amnesia
Q: Which A is the white of an egg? A: Albumen
Q: What is the title of the 1984 film about the life of composer Mozart? A: Amadeus
Q: Which A is another name for an enemy or opponent? A: Adversary
Q: Globe, Omaha Fiesole and Chianti are all varieties of which vegetable? A: Artichoke
Q: British sportswoman Charlotte Cooper, born in 1870, was famous in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Nicholas Breakspear, born in the 12th Century, was the first English what? A: Pope
Q: Haneda Airport is in which Asian country? A: Japan
Q: Bob Pettit is associated with which sport? A: Basketball
Q: Who plays Susan Delfino in the US tv series Desperate Housewives? A: Teri Hatcher
Q: What was the name of the boat in which English car and speedboat racer Donald Campbell was killed in 1967? A: Bluebird K7
Q: What type of foodstuff is a cascabel? A: Chilli pepper
Q: The Winter War from 1939  1940 was a military conflict between Russia (Soviet Union) and which other country? A: Finland
Q: Who became President of Germany in June 2010? A: Christian Wulff
Q: A curassow is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Which of Henry Vllls wives was known as the Flanders Mare? A: Anne of Cleves
Q: What colour are the stars on the national flag of China? A: Yellow
Q: What was the name of the camp which was set up in Chile when 30 miners where trapped underground? A: Camp Hope
Q: The litas is the basic monetary unit of which country? A: Lithuania
Q: Jah, Afrocentrism, Ital, Zion and Cannabis use are the main doctrines of which religious movement? A: Rastafari
Q: During World War 2, what did the Local Defence Volunteers later became known as? A: The Home Guard
Q: In 1991, a spoof Nobel Prize, called The Ig Nobel Prize, for achievements that cannot or should not be repeated was  instigated by which US university? A: Harvard
Q: Which US state is known as the Beef State? A: Nebraska
Q: Anime is film animation originating in which country? A: Japan
Q: How many times zones does Russia have? A: Nine
Q: Which country has the internet domain .ch? A: Switzerland
Q: Astronomer William Herschel announced the discovery of which planet in our solar system in March 1781? A: Uranus
Q: What is the name of the ship in the novel Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson? A: Hispaniola
Q: Joseph Lyons became Prime Minister of which country in 1932? A: Australia
Q: The singer Mary OBrien was better known by what name? A: Dusty Springfield
Q: How long is a dog watch at sea? A: Two hours
Q: Which English town had the Roman name Dubris? A: Dover, Kent
Q: What does the diameter of a golf hole measure in inches? A: 4.25
Q: The city of Hollywood, Broward County, is in which US state? A: Florida
Q: How many finger holes does a penny whistle have? A: Six
Q: What is the collective name for a group of toads? A: Knot
Q: What is the only English word, and its derivatives, to end in mt? A: Dreamt
Q: In the UK, in which year was the voting age lowered from 30 to 21 for women? A: 1928
Q: What is the most times a piece of paper can be folded in half? A: Seven
Q: How many goals did footballer Gary Lineker score for England? A: 48
Q: What was the middle name of actor Laurence Olivier? A: Kerr
Q: The ship Cutty Sark was built in which Scottish dockyard town? A: Dumbarton
Q: What are the Secret Service names for Barack and Michelle Obama? A: Renegade and Renaissance
Q: Lotus Air airlines is based in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: Texas Hold Em is a variation of which card game? A: Poker
Q: With which athletics field event is Jan Zelezny associated? A: Javelin
Q: In the human body, which cavity at the upper end of the trachea contains the vocal cords? A: Larynx
Q: The Greek island of Lemnos lies in which sea? A: Agean Sea
Q: Who was the father of British monarch King Edward VI? A: Henry VIII
Q: Tatiana Day is celebrated in January in which country? A: Russia
Q: Which British comedian created the character Dennis Pennis? A: Paul Kaye
Q: Which famous race horse, and British Grand National winner, died on 18th October 1995? A: Red Rum
Q: Shakespeare was said to have coined the phrase One fell swoop in which of his plays? A: Macbeth
Q: Radial, Crossply, and Run-flat are all types of what? A: Tyres
Q: What is the parasitic insect with the Latin name Pediculus humanus capitas better known as? A: Head louse
Q: Who designed the Banqueting House in Londons Whitehall? A: Inigo Jones
Q: Who was elected President of the Italian Republic in May 2006? A: Giorgio Napolitano
Q: Which playing card is known as the Snowman? A: Eight
Q: What colour is the flag awarded for clean beaches in New Zealand and Canada? A: Blue
Q: John Wayne Airport is in which US state? A: California
Q: Tynwald Day is celebrated on which island in July? A: Isle of Man
Q: When a young squire was knighted for his deeds of valour in battle, he was said to have won his what? A: Spurs
Q: Which US state is known as the Old Line State? A: Maryland
Q: Which legendary folk singer played his first concert in Vietnam, in April 2011? A: Bob Dylan
Q: Durango, Veracruz and Campeche are all states in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Who wrote the novel Doctor Zhivago? A: Boris Pasternak
Q: In zoology, which order of mammals include apes, monkeys, prosimians and man? A: Primates
Q: In 1965, who became the first British driver to win the Indianapolis 500? A: Jim Clark
Q: What was US President Gerald Fords middle name? A: Rudolph
Q: In humans, Graves disease is the result of an overactive what? A: Thyroid gland
Q: In Southern Australia, a strong, hot, dry dusty wind is known by what name? A: Brickfielder
Q: What price did an adult British passport rise to in 2009? A: 77.50
Q: What is the first name of the butler in the US tv series The Fresh Prince of Bel Air, starring Will Smith? A: Geoffrey
Q: Which British Prime Minister said A week is a long time in politics? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which UK television chef caused controversy by cooking a human placenta on his show? A: Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall
Q: What is the profession of Nick Bottom in Shakespeares A Midsummer Nights Dream? A: Weaver
Q: Josip Broz was the original name of which Yugoslav statesman? A: Marshall Tito
Q: German footballer, Oliver Khan, played in which position? A: Goalkeeper
Q: A Percheron is what type of animal? A: Horse
Q: Ophidiophobia is the fear of what type of creature? A: Snake
Q: Which of his books did British author Jeffrey Archer re-write in 2009, 30 years after its first publication? A: Kane and Abel
Q: The Oakland Bay Bridge is in which US city? A: San Francisco
Q: Sir Guy of Gisbourne was which legendary characters henchman? A: The Sheriff of Nottingham
Q: What colour are post (mail) boxes in Spain? A: Yellow
Q: Which word can be used for a birthmark, a piece of drilling machinery and a secret agent? A: Mole
Q: Which fruit is used in making Melba sauce? A: Raspberries
Q: Which historical figure called the English A nation of shopkeepers? A: Napoleon I
Q: Which planet in our solar system takes the shortest time to orbit the sun? A: Mercury
Q: The coastal resorts of Sopot and Leba are in which European country? A: Poland
Q: Who is the star of US tv series Adrenaline Junkie? A: Jack Osbourne
Q: In anatomy, osteomalacia is the softening of what? A: The bones
Q: The Bundesliga is a professional association football league in which country? A: Germany
Q: Sudan, Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia and Kenya border which landlocked African country? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Elite One Championship in France is for which sport? A: Rugby League
Q: At which London landmark does the Ceremony of the Keys take place? A: Tower of London
Q: Barolo, Barbaresco and Moscato are wines from which European country? A: Italy
Q: Which Scottish hero was made Guardian of Scotland in 1297? A: William Wallace
Q: In mathematics, what is an angle called which measures more than 90 degrees but less than 180 degrees? A: Obtuse angle
Q: Which horse came second in the 1973 Grand National at Aintree? A: Crisp
Q: In which British tv sitcom did Tony Britten and Nigel Havers play father and son doctors Toby and Tom Latimer? A: Dont Wait Up
Q: What is the Indian term for cauliflower or cabbage? A: Gobi
Q: In the fairy tale The Princess and the Pea, how many mattresses did the princess sleep on and still feel the pea through? A: Twenty
Q: At which university did British spies Burgess, Blunt, Maclean and Philby meet? A: Cambridge
Q: The Kyat is the national currency of which Asian country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: How many spikes are on the crown of The Statue of Liberty in New York USA? A: Seven
Q: What type of animal is Beatrix Potters Mr Tod? A: Fox
Q: Which US outlaw married his cousin, Zerelda Zee Mimms, in 1874? A: Jesse James
Q: From which country do Blue Mountain coffee beans come? A: Jamaica
Q: How many Gold Medals did Canada win in the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: Fourteen
Q: Which 1975 film features the character Frank N Furter? A: The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: What is the nickname of English football club Sheffield Wednesday? A: The Owls
Q: What is a straight line passing from side to side through the centre of a circle called? A: Diameter
Q: Which word represents the letter K in the NATO Phonetic Alphabet? A: Kilo
Q: Which group of islands were claimed by the British in 1833? A: The Falkland Islands
Q: Which saint was the first British Christian martyr? A: Saint Alban
Q: The plant Amaranthus Caudatus is better known as Love-Lies-what? A: Bleeding
Q: Which English poets works include Birthday Letters? A: Ted Hughes
Q: In zoology, what is an animal called which feeds on decomposing organic matter? A: Detritivore
Q: BS is the international car registration of which country? A: Bahamas
Q: Which golfer won the 1997 US Masters? A: Tiger Woods
Q: How many points is the J tile worth in the game of Scrabble? A: Eight
Q: Which film directors epitaph reads Im in on a plot? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: Vincent Crummles appears in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: Nicholas Nickleby
Q: A quincentenary is an anniversary of how many years? A: 500
Q: Which cartoon character is depicted on the welcome sign in Crystal City, Texas, the spinach capital of the world? A: Popeye
Q: A muskellunge is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Misogamy is the hatred of what? A: Marriage
Q: Aotearoa is the local name for which country? A: New Zealand
Q: British companies, Wagtail, Kelham Island and Revolution are all what types of which industry? A: Breweries
Q: Hong Kong, in China, lies at the mouth of which river? A: Pearl River
Q: Which country has the internet domain .mt? A: Malta
Q: Japan lies in which body of water? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: Who married Prince Ranier III of Monaco in 1956? A: Grace Kelly
Q: Who was known as The Butcher of Lyon during World War II? A: Klaus Barbie
Q: Which planet in our solar system has a year which lasts around 84 Earth years? A: Uranus
Q: Artist Salvador Dali made a sofa inspired by the lips of which Hollywood actress? A: Mae West
Q: The village of Cheddar is in which English county? A: Somerset
Q: Fashion company Benetton is based in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Roentgen Rays, named after Nobel Prize winner Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen, are better known by what name? A: X-Rays
Q: What is the name of the convenience store in the tv cartoon show The Simpsons? A: Kwik-E-Mart
Q: In which year was the first London to Brighton veteran car run in the UK? A: 1896
Q: Which US actor has children named Rumer, Scout and Tallulah? A: Bruce Willis
Q: How many drivers are awarded points at the end of a Formula One Grand Prix race? A: 10
Q: What type of foodstuff is gelato? A: Ice cream
Q: A Cockle is English slang for what amount of money? A: 10
Q: Who was elected President of the European Parliament in July 2009? A: Jerzy Buzek
Q: In the UK tv series Rising Damp, what was the first name of Rigsbys estranged wife? A: Veronica
Q: One of the principal rules taught in medical school, Primum non nocere, translates to what in English? A: First do no harm
Q: The Gardiner Dam is in which country? A: Canada
Q: The Cagayan River is the largest river in which country? A: Philippines
Q: Michelle LaVaughn Robinson married which future world leader in 1992? A: Barack Obama
Q: During World War II, which spiritual leader addressed letters to Adolph Hitler as My Friend, requesting him to stop the war which Germany had started? A: Mahatma Gandhi
Q: Who was Britains Prime Minister before Winston Churchills first term in office? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: In the 1988 film Who Framed Roger Rabbit, what is the name of the town in which Roger Rabbit lives? A: Toontown
Q: Who played waitress Maggie Fitzgerald in the 2004 film Million Dollar Baby? A: Hilary Swank
Q: In which year was the Henry Wood Promenade Concerts, otherwise known as The Proms, founded? A: 1895
Q: The Saudi Arabian port of Jeddah stands on the shore of which sea? A: Red Sea
Q: Fitch fur comes from which animal? A: Polecat
Q: Which former US airline, founded in 1927, ceased to operate in 1991? A: Pan American
Q: Which cricketer won Pipe Smoker of the Year Award in 1986? A: Ian Botham
Q: In humans, plumbism is chronic poisoning due to the absorption of what into the body? A: Lead
Q: Which Roman Emperor was named Little Boots? A: Caligula
Q: The Franklin River is in which Australian state? A: Tasmania
Q: John Lennon and Yoko Ono recorded Give Peace a Chance at the Hotel La Reine in which city in Canada in 1969? A: Montreal
Q: Pneumoconiosis is a disease of which part of the human body? A: Lungs
Q: Mount Parnassus is in which European country? A: Greece
Q: What is the name of retired gunslinger, played by Clint Eastwood, in the 1992 film Unforgiven? A: William Munny
Q: Which actress played nightclub singer Dorothy in the 1986 film Blue Velvet? A: Isabella Rossellini
Q: Russia was defeated by which country in the Battle of Tannenberg in 1914? A: Germany
Q: What is the capital of Sudan? A: Khartoum
Q: An oribi is what type of animal? A: Antelope
Q: The Aqua Tower, the first tallest building in the world designed by a team led by a woman, Jeanne Gang, is in which US city? A: Chicago
Q: What is Lake Kinnernet in Israel known as in the Bible? A: The Sea of Galilee
Q: Who played Martha Jones in the UK tv series Doctor Who? A: Freema Agyeman
Q: Thanksgiving Day is celebrated in Canada during which month of the year? A: October
Q: Charles Merivale of Cambridge University and Charles Wordsworth of Oxford University started which annual tradition in 1829? A: Oxford-Cambridge Boat Race
Q: The Vichy Regime described the government of which European country during World War II? A: France
Q: Pato, a game played on horseback, is the national sport of which South American country? A: Argentina
Q: Which US President died in 1841, on his 32nd day in office? A: William Henry Harrison
Q: The Ferrorie dello Stato is the main railway operator in which European country? A: Italy
Q: French artist, Fernande Olivier, was known primarily for being the model of which painter/artist, who painted over 60 portraits of her? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: The Chicago Bears defeated which team 73-0 in the 1940 NFL Championship game? A: Washington Redskins
Q: Which of the Great Lakes is the only one located entirely in the United States of America? A: Lake Michigan
Q: Which district in London is famous for its Royal Hospital for old soldiers? A: Chelsea
Q: The Vistula Lagoon is a freshwater lagoon on which sea? A: Baltic Sea
Q: If a person is micturating, what are they doing? A: Urinating
Q: The Uffizi Gallery is a museum in which European city? A: Florence
Q: Which BBC radio programme introduces a castaway every week? A: Desert Island Discs
Q: Lewis Hamilton was disqualified from which 2009 Formula One Grand Prix? A: Australian
Q: Who played Dudley Moores butler in the 1981 film Arthur? A: John Gielgud
Q: In the animal world, nidification is the building of what? A: Nests
Q: Fashion brand Miu Miu is a subsidiary of which famous Italian fashion house? A: Prada
Q: The gemstone ruby is the birthstone of people born in which month of the year? A: July
Q: The novels The Shipmaster, The Iron Ships and The Trade Winds by Cyril Abraham, are based on which 1970s British tv series? A: The Onedin Line
Q: The Anatolian Peninsula comprises most of which modern day country? A: Turkey
Q: Which US soap opera, which started on radio and moved to tv in 1952, ran for 72 years before ending in 2009? A: Guiding Light
Q: Which country hosted the second modern Olympic Games in 1900? A: France
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the father of Achilles? A: Peleus
Q: Sugar Loaf Mountain is in which country of the UK? A: Wales
Q: In which US city are the Academy Awards held? A: Los Angeles
Q: Which British model was named The Face of 66 by the Daily Express newspaper? A: Twiggy
Q: Bobby Cox was manager of which US professional baseball team before his retirement in 2010? A: Atlanta Braves
Q: Ian Stewart was known as the sixth member of which British rock group? A: Rolling Stones
Q: In the game of bridge, what is the term for bidding and winning a contract of thirteen tricks? A: Grand Slam
Q: What colours are on the national flag of Belgium? A: Black, yellow and red
Q: Felipe de Jesus Calderon Hinojosa became President of which country in December 2006? A: Mexico
Q: One minute of longitude at the equator is equal to how many nautical miles? A: One
Q: Cuevo de las Manos (Cave of the Hands), famous for the paintings of hands made around 9,000 years ago, is in which Spanish-speaking country? A: Argentina
Q: What were the first names of writer C.S.Lewis? A: Clive Staples
Q: In the film Casablanca, how many times does Rick Blaine, played by Humphrey Bogart, say the words Heres looking at you kid? A: Four times
Q: What was the name of Isambard Kingdom Brunels steamship, launched in 1858? A: The Great Eastern
Q: Which evergreen flowering climbing plant is said to be associated with Jesus Christ? A: Passion Flower
Q: On a standard violin, to which notes are the four strings normally tuned? A: G D A E
Q: How many imperial gallons of oil are in a barrel? A: 35
Q: Rocinante is the name of which fictional characters horse? A: Don Quixote
Q: In humans, enteritis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Small intestine
Q: Who became Archbishop of Canterbury in February 2003? A: Rowan Williams
Q: In the Bible, what was the name of Jacobs only daughter? A: Dinah
Q: Felsic, Mafic and Intermediate are all types of which natural substance? A: Lava
Q: What is the name of the scarlet and gold banner of St Denis, which was given to early French kings on setting out for war? A: Oriflamme
Q: In which year was the death penalty for treason formally abolished on the mainland UK? A: 1998
Q: In 1776, the United States Declaration of Independence decreed that how many American colonies, which were at war with Britain, were no longer part of the British Empire? A: Thirteen
Q: Which nations football team won the FIFA World Cup in 2006? A: Italy
Q: What is the flattened circular organ in the uterus of pregnant women which nourishes the foetus through the umbilical cord? A: Placenta
Q: What type of plant is an opuntia? A: Cactus
Q: What was the final battle of the Napoleonic Wars? A: Waterloo
Q: What is the rank of officer in the US Army above Colonel and below Major General? A: Brigadier General
Q: Which British singer had a lily named after her in 2010, which is officially registered as Popstar? A: Lily Allen
Q: The Cuillin Hills are on which Scottish island? A: Skye
Q: What is the name of the soft fatty tissue in which blood cells are produced, found in the cavities of bones? A: Marrow
Q: In which English county is Dunster Castle? A: Somerset
Q: Which prime number is between 11 and 17? A: 13
Q: Frederico Fellini was famous for his work in which of the arts? A: Film making
Q: What name is given to atoms with the same atomic number but different numbers of neutrons in their nuclei? A: Isotopes
Q: Seppuku, part of the code of Samurai warriors, is better known by what name? A: Hari-Kari
Q: Henrietta Maria was the wife of which British monarch? A: King Charles I
Q: What is the name of Willy Lomans son in the play Death of a Salesman by Arthur Miller? A: Biff
Q: The radio adaptation of which H G Wells novel, narrated by Orson Welles caused panic in parts of the USA in October 1938? A: The War of the Worlds
Q: What was the native language of Jesus Christ? A: Aramaic
Q: Which British actress appeared as a teenager in a 1950s Gas Board commercial? A: Joan Collins
Q: Which US Presidents name can be found on the Apollo 11 moon plaque? A: Richard Nixon
Q: What is the name of Captain Hooks boat in the childrens novel Peter Pan? A: Jolly Roger
Q: In humans, nephrosis is the degeneration of which organ? A: Kidney
Q: In a 2009 article in The Economist, which late artist was described as the bellwether of the art market, referring to a painting of his which was sold in 1963 for $100 million? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Achille Maramotti founded which Italian fashion house in 1951? A: Max Mara
Q: Who is the only driver in Formula One history to win the championship in a car which he built himself? A: Jack Brabham
Q: In which British city is the University of Strathclyde? A: Glasgow
Q: Which comedian played Kevin Turvey in the British tv sketch series A Kick Up the Eighties? A: Rik Mayall
Q: What is the name of the small light ball of woven flax swung rhythmically at the end of a string in Maori songs and dances? A: Poi
Q: Titania, Miranda and Bianca are all moons of which planet in our solar system? A: Uranus
Q: The resort of Costa Smeralda is on which Mediterranean island? A: Sardinia
Q: What is the fold of loose skin called hanging from the throat or neck of an animal or bird? A: Dewlap
Q: Which Greek goddess is the muse of erotic poetry? A: Erato
Q: A lucky clover is supposed to have how many leaves? A: Four
Q: The Copihue is the national flower of which South American country? A: Chile
Q: Which US disc jockey is credited with coining the phrase Rock and Roll during the 1950s? A: Alan Freed
Q: The Java Trench is part of which ocean? A: Indian Ocean
Q: Who became the youngest man, at age 35, to win the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Which planet in our solar system is known is The Morning Star when it appears in the eastern sky before sunrise? A: Venus
Q: In British politics, who succeeded Jeremy Thorpe as acting leader of the Liberal Party in 1976? A: Jo Grimond
Q: On which part of the body would a ghillie normally be worn? A: Foot
Q: In science, a pascal is a measure of what? A: Pressure
Q: Who played Father Noel Furlong in the British tv series Father Ted? A: Graham Norton
Q: Which Biblical figure destroyed the Temple of the Philistines? A: Samson
Q: Domingo Liotta MD, of Argentina, designed and developed the first artificial what, which was successfully implanted in a human in 1969? A: Heart
Q: In which 2000 film starring Jude Law does former boxer Ricky Grover make a cameo appearance? A: Love, Honour and Obey
Q: The First Lord of the Treasury is inscribed on the letterbox of which address in London? A: 10, Downing Street
Q: How many goals were scored in the 2006 FIFA World Cup? A: 147
Q: In which European country is the Briksdal Glacier? A: Norway
Q: In the childrens Mr Men books, what shape is Mr Rush? A: Triangular
Q: What is the title of the 1983 film in which teenager Tom Cruise turns his parents home into a brothel? A: Risky Business
Q: What was the name of the ship in which Captain Robert Scott set sail for the Antarctic in 1901? A: The Discovery
Q: In which year was the Battle of Bannockburn, between Scotland and England? A: 1314
Q: Which Canadian island lies to the east of the Gulf of St Lawrence? A: Newfoundland
Q: What is the capital of Switzerland? A: Bern or Berne
Q: Mycroft is the older brother of which fictional detective? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What is the name of the short red cape, or piece of cloth, suspended from a hollow staff and brandished by a matador during a bullfight? A: Muleta
Q: In which year were women allowed to compete in athletics events for the first time in the Olympic Games? A: 1928
Q: How many wives did Coronation Streets  Mike Baldwin have? A: Four
Q: What nationality is tennis player Goran Ivanisevic? A: Croatian
Q: Who did Franklin D. Roosevelt defeat in the 1944 US Presidential elections? A: Thomas E. Dewey
Q: Which English football club became temporary ground-sharing tenants with Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park in 1991? A: Wimbledon FC
