Q: What hard candy, with a hole in the middle, comes in a foil roll and features the 5 standard flavors of cherry, pineapple, raspberry, watermelon, and orange? A: Life Savers
Q: Waylon Smithers is the personal assistant to what well known fictional character? A: C. Montgomery Burns
Q: Which Latin phrase, which translates as 'this for that', is taken to mean a more-or-less equal exchange or substitution of goods or services? A: Quid pro quo
Q: Won by Ray Harroun at the amazing speed of 74.602mph, the first Indianapolis 500 race was held in what year? A: 1911
Q: What is the halo around an eclipse called? A: Corona
Q: What is written on the side of the van driven by the gang on Scooby Doo? A: The Mystery Machine
Q: Now permanently moored in Long Beach, CA, and serves as a hotel and restaurants, what famed Cunard liner first sailed on May 27, 1937 and was retired in 1967? A: RMS Queen Mary
Q: Designed to prevent sewer gas from passing back into your house, what is the name for the U-shaped pipe that connects below sink drains? A: Trap
Q: In which park do Yogi Bear and his little buddy Boo Boo live? A: Jellystone
Q: What cocktail, consisting of rum, curacao, and lime juice, did bar owner Victor Jules Bergeron, Jr., better known as Trader Vic, claim to invent? A: Mai Tai
Q: Oncology is the study of what? A: Cancer
Q: The site of a mid-19th century conflict, in which modern day country is the Crimean peninsula? A: Ukraine
Q: How many dice are used in the games of Yahtzee? A: 5
Q: Bass, Tom-tom, and Snare are all types of what? A: Drums
Q: A hinny is the product of a male horse and a female donkey. What is the name for the offspring of a male donkey and a female horse? A: Mule
Q: What can be a film director, producer, and actor, a move in chess, or a fortified residence? A: Castle
Q: The June 3, 1888 edition of the San Francisco Examiner included a baseball poem by Ernest Thayer, which featured the exploits of what member of the Mudville Nine? A: The Mighty Casey
Q: The June 1974 edition of Emergency Medicine included an article entitled "Pop Goes the Cafe Coronary", which described what common procedure? A: Heimlich Maneuver
Q: What was the awesome nickname of depression era bank robber Charles Arthur Floyd? A: Pretty Boy
Q: Drawing an estimated 235,000 visitors, what is the name of the annual festival of ethnic, folk, and traditional art, crafts, and music that took place at Seattle Center this last weekend? A: Northwest Folklife
Q: Known as The Prairie State, what was the 21st state to join the Union on Dec 3. 1818? A: Illinois
Q: Chum, pink, and Chinook are all types of what? A: Salmon
Q: Based upon a 1987 historical fantasy novel by Tim Powers, what is the name and inspiration for the fourth installment of the Pirates of the Caribbean film series? A: On Stranger Tides
Q: The Indianapolis 500 race, held over the Memorial Day weekend, takes how many laps to complete the full 500 miles? A: 200
Q: What is the alter ego of everyone's favorite hero, Underdog? A: Shoeshine Boy
Q: In the United States, if liquor is defined as 80 proof, what is the percentage of alcohol by volume? A: 40%
Q: What is the name of the astromech droid companion of Anakin Skywalker, Luke Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Star Wars franchise? A: R2-D2
Q: With a June, 1938 cover date, Action Comics #1 introduced what iconic character created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster? A: Superman
Q: Last week saw the end of the line for the Oprah Winfrey Show, after how many years on the air? A: 25
Q: On June 2, 1997, major asshat Timothy McVeigh is convicted on 15 counts of murder and conspiracy for his part in what heinous act? A: Bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City
Q: “Sugar… spice… and everything nice” plus a healthy dose of a mysterious substance called “Chemical X” is responsible for creating what cartoon crime fighters? A: The Powerpuff Girls
Q: Opening this week, the movie Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is the latest installment of the Prince of Persia franchise, which was originally created as a what: A: Video Game
Q: The advertising slogan for what company was "When it absolutely, positively, has to be there overnight"? A: Federal Express
Q: A group of street urchins, the Baker Street Irregulars are employed by whom? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: In internet parlance, what does GTFO mean? A: Get the fuck out
Q: A deficiency in what mineral causes anemia? A: Iron
Q: What comic strip, created by Dik Browne and now drawn by his son Chris, contains, among others, the wife Helga, a brilliant son named Hamlet, a bimbo-like daughter Helga, a duck Kvack, and a dog Snert? A: Hagar the Horrible
Q: Won by a Scotsman this year, how many laps does it take to complete the Indianapolis 500? A: 200
Q: "Pop Goes the Cafe Coronary", an article published in the June, 1974 issue of Emergency Medicine, describes what potentially life saving maneuver, also known as abdominal thrusts? A: Heimlich Maneuver
Q: Who's missing: A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones, Revenge of the Sith? A: Return of the Jedi
Q: In the world of blood donations, O- types are considered to be universal donors (blood compatible with all types). What blood type is considered to be a universal recipient (can accept any blood type)? A: AB+
Q: What does the DSM-IV define as:     A. A pervasive pattern of detachment from social relationships and a restricted range of expression of emotions in interpersonal settings, beginning by early adulthood and present in a variety of contexts, as indicated b four (or more) of the following: (1) neither desires nor enjoys close relationships, including being part of a family (2) almost always chooses solitary activities (3) has little, if any, interest in having sexual experiences with another person (4) takes pleasure in few, if any, activities (5) lacks close friends or confidants other than first-degree relatives (6) appears indifferent to the praise or criticism of others (7) shows emotional coldness, detachment, or flattened affectivity B. Does not occur exclusively during the course of Schizophrenia, a Mood Disorder With Psychotic Features, another Psychotic Disorder, or a Pervasive Developmental Disorder and is not due to the direct physiological effects of a general medical condition. A: Schizoid Personality Disorder
Q: June 2, 1886 saw which US President, the 22nd (and 24th), marry Frances Folsom in the White House, the only president who actually got married at the White House? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: According to circus owner P. T. Barnum, whose first show began touring 176 years ago today, there's a what born every minute? A: A sucker
Q: In addition to stinging like a bee, Muhammed Ali described his fighting style as floating like a what? A: butterfly
Q: Coined during Winston Churchill's Sinews of Peace speech, what was the name given to the boundary between the Warsaw Pact and NATO during the cold war? A: Iron Curtain
Q: June 5, 1968 saw which US presidential candidate shot at the Ambassador Hotel (since razed), by radical Palestinian Sirhan Sirhan? A: Robert F. Kennedy
Q: In honor of the 30th anniversary of it's creation, Google changed their logo last week to a playable version of what classic game? A: Pac-Man
Q: What federal holiday, first enacted to honor the Union soldiers of the Civil War, was formerly called Decoration Day? A: Memorial Day
Q: What name is given to the process where machines are used to artificially simulate the function of the kidneys? A: Dialysis
Q: Hosni Mubarak, who spent 20 years as the leader of what country, received a life sentence last week on charges of killing protesters during last year's revolution? A: Egypt
Q: What early Seattle grunge band, which shared a name with a CCR song, had former members who formed the nucleus of bands you might have heard of: Pearl Jam and Mudhoney? A: Green River
Q: What name is given to the dessert consisting of ice cream on sponge cake covered with meringue and browned quickly in a hot oven? A: Baked Alaska
Q: Hellfire, Stinger, and Tomahawk are all types of what? A: Missiles
Q: Which famed Viennese composer, who died on June 3, 1899, was known as the Waltz King? A: Johann Strauss II
Q: In an apiary or hive, feeding a bee larvae royal jelly will result in it developing into what? A: Queen Bee
Q: DC Comics recently announced that what long running comic character, introduced in 1940, is gay? A: The Green Lantern
Q: July 4, 1919 saw Congress pass the 19th amendment (although it wasn't officially ratified until Aug 20, 1920), which gave the vote to which previously disenfranchised group? A: Women
Q: Who’s missing: Ray Combs, Louie Anderson, Richard Karn, John O’Hurley, Steve Harvey A: Richard Dawson
Q: Published today in 1949, which George Orwell novel features Winston Smith and Big Brother? A: 1984
Q: In an event that won't be repeated until 2117, appropriately protected eyes were greeted with the transit of what celestial body across the face of the sun today? A: Venus
Q: In the classic L. Frank Baum story The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, which of Dorothy's traveling companion was searching for a heart? A: Tin Woodman
Q: What is stored in a scabbard? A: Sword
Q: What popular sandwich consists of a hamburger patty, sautĂŠed onions, and Swiss cheese on rye bread, which is then grilled? A: Patty Melt
Q: Sailing aboard a converted WWII minesweeper, built right here in Ballard, WA in 1942, which noted French explorer is credited with inventing the aqualung, making modern scuba diving possible? A: Jacques Cousteau
Q: On June 5, 1968, noted asshat Sirhan Sirhan killed what presidential candidate in the kitchen of The Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles? A: Robert F Kennedy
Q: Nicknamed Dr. Death, what famed American assisted suicide activist, who passed on this last week, spent 8 years in prison on a second degree murder charge? A: Jack Kevorkian
Q: Formerly known as Sky Dome, Rogers Centre is home to what American League baseball team, the only MLB team located outside the United States? A: Toronto Blue Jays
Q: Voiced by Julie Kavner, who are the older twin sisters of Marge Simpson? A: Patty and Selma Bouvier
Q: Known as the Yellowhammer State, what was the 22nd state to join the Union on December 14, 1819? A: Alabama
Q: What type of animal is cartoon character Pepe Le Pew? A: Skunk
Q: June 4, 1723 saw the birth, in Kirkcaldy, Scotland, of what social philosopher and pioneer of economics, who wrote such weighty tomes as The Theory of Moral Sentiments and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations? A: Adam Smith
Q: What is added to copper to make bronze? A: Tin
Q: Joe Chill is a petty mugger who, one nights, murders Thomas and Martha Wayne during an attempted robbery, leaving behind an orphan who grows up to be whom? A: Batman
Q: Bridget Bishop was hanged on June 10, 1692 at Gallows Hill near what Massachusetts city for certaine Detestable Arts called Witchcraft & Sorceries? A: Salem
Q: What sailor suit wearing, short tempered cartoon character made his first appearance on June 9, 1934 in the Silly Symphonies cartoon The Wise Little Hen? A: Donald Duck
Q: June 8, 1949 saw London publishers Secker and Warburg which book which features a perpetual war between Oceania, Eurasia, and Eastasia? A: Nineteen Eighty-Four
Q: June 7, 1866 saw the death of Chief Seattle, after whom some city somewhere is probably named. What tribe was he the chief of? A: Duwamish
Q: Which newspaper heiress was kidnapped by a left-wing urban guerilla group, called the SLA, and spent a year and a half enmeshed in the group? A: Patty Hearst
Q: June 8, 1867 saw the birth of what American architect and interior designer, and leader of the Prairie school movement, whose most famous design is Fallingwater in Pittsburg? A: Frank Lloyd Wright
Q: In what 1959 Peter Sellers movie does the Duchy of Grand Fenwick invade the US in an attempt to start a war so that the US will rebuild their nation following its victory? A: The Mouse that Roared
Q: If I prank call a store asking if they have Prince Albert in a can, what type of product am I looking for? A: Tobacco
Q: What is the name for the region of mostly calm weather found at the center of a strong hurricane? A: Eye
Q: What rock band had a notorious clause in their standard concert contract that specified that all brown M&Ms needed to be removed the bowl provided to the rockers? A: Van Halen
Q: Serial killer Albert de Salvo was better known as whom? A: The Boston Strangler
Q: Finished up earlier this week, what is the only of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments currently played on clay? A: French Open
Q: What product was advertised by the slogan "It takes a licking and keeps on ticking" A: Timex
Q: Born Annelies Marie on June 12, 1929, who received a diary for her 13th birthday? A: Anne Frank
Q: By the power of Greyskull, who, alongside Teela and Man-At-Arms, battled Skeletor to defend Eternia? A: HeMan
Q: Inked by Dean Young, the travails of the Bumstead family are depicted in what comic strip created in 1930? A: Blondie
Q: How many teams compete in the World Cup? A: 32
Q: Now that Pluto's been demoted, what's the smallest planet of the solar system, with a radius only 0.3892 that of Earth? A: Mercury
Q: Run last Saturday, what race is the 3rd, and final, leg of Thoroughbred Horse Racing's Triple Crown? A: Belmont Stakes
Q: What day of the week is named for the Norse god of single combat, victory, and heroic glory? A: Tuesday
Q: In the Peanuts comic strip, what titan of classical music, who spent his last years deaf, was idolized by the piano playing character Schroeder? A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: June 8, 1955 saw the birth of Sir Timothy Berners-Lee, British engineer and computer scientist best known for inventing what modern convenience that nobody could get by without anymore? A: World Wide Web
Q: Winner of 5, what is the only nation who has sent a team to every World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: What's missing: Gold, Sword, Juno, Utah? A: Omaha
Q: Considered the father of the US Navy, what Revolutionary War hero is famous for his "I have not yet begun to fight!" quote? A: John Paul Jones
Q: Named for it's proximity to the local NBA team, what is the name of the WNBA team in Phoenix? A: Mercury
Q: Born June 11, 1880, Jeanette Rankin, the first woman elected to Congress, represented which Northwestern state? A: Montana
Q: For a point each, name the state(s) bordering Maine A: New Hampshire
Q: May 10, 1975 saw Sony release what, which later lost in the first modern format war against its rival from JVC? A: Betamax
Q: Which instrument can separate two liquids by spinning them at high speed? A: Centrifuge
Q: What former U.S. president, and Nobel Peace Prize winner, is known for his staunch support of Habitat for Humanity? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: Which actor provided the voice for Darth Vader and "This is CNN"? A: James Earl Jones
Q: An analgesic drug is used as what? A: Painkiller
Q: In English, what is the name for the dot that appears over the lower case letters i and j? A: Tittle
Q: Outside of what New Mexico town was a supposed crashed UFO discovered on June 14, 1947, which the Gov't swears was a weather balloon? A: Roswell
Q: The terms curds and whey are associated with making what? A: Cheese
Q: Name the 2012 movie from the IMDB plot summary: 'Transplanted to Mars, a Civil War vet discovers a lush planet inhabited by 12-foot tall barbarians. Finding himself a prisoner of these creatures, he escapes, only to encounter a princess who is in desperate need of a savior.' A: John Carter
Q: Dammit Jim, I’m a doctor, not a trivia question! DeForrest Kelly (He’s dead, Jim, on Jun 11, 1999) played what character on ST:TOS? A: Dr. Leonard McCoy
Q: What local beverage company, which moved its' headquarters here in 2000, manufactures an energy drink called WhoopAss? A: Jones Soda Company
Q: Saturday is also known as Bloomsday, so called because it's the day in which what author set the events of his novel Ulysses? A: James Joyce
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as “from the latter”, is taken to mean “based upon actual observation or upon experimental data”? A: a posteriori
Q: Not that OJ did it, but who was murdered along side Nicole Brown Simpson on June 12, 1994? A: Ronald Goldman
Q: Which musical term means to gradually get louder? A: Crescendo
Q: Ruby, C, and Fortran are all examples of what? A: Computer programming languages
Q: What is the name of the cheetah that serves as the spokesperson for Cheetos snacks? A: Chester
Q: Which airline's in-flight magazine is called Sky? A: Delta
Q: In the Japanese martial art of Kendo, what is the sword made of? A: Bamboo
Q: The trial on campaign finance violations of what former Presidential candidate and North Carolina senator ended in a mistrial last week? A: John Edwards
Q: Convection, conduction, and radiation are three of the ways what type of energy can be transferred? A: Heat
Q: Running from June 15 to Oct 1859, what 2 countries faced off in the Pig War, in which a pig on San Juan island was the only casualty? A: US and Britain
Q: What is the name of the chief muscle used in breathing, which separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity? A: Diaphragm
Q: How many lines are there in a limerick? A: 5
Q: A current member of the staff at Stanford, who became the first American woman in space on June 18, 1983? A: Sally Ride
Q: Esther Lederer spent 47 years writing a newspaper advice column under what pseudonym, competing with her twin sister Abigail Van Buren? A: Ann Landers
Q: Those tabbed for King County jury duty either report to the King County Courthouse on 3rd Ave or the Maleng Regional Justice center in what Seattle suburb? A: Kent
Q: The 1859 Pig War, which lasted until 1872, describes a conflict between the United States and Great Britain over what group of islands? A: San Juan
Q: Known as The Pine Tree State, what was the 23rd state to join the Union on March 15, 1820? A: Maine
Q: Often used by sailors to pass the time, the art of carving on bones and ivory is known as what? A: Scrimshaw
Q: At what Belgian municipality did Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte finally get his ass handed to him on June 18, 1815? A: Waterloo
Q: According to a long-running ad campaign, what brand of cookie is baked inside a hollow tree? A: Keebler
Q: Voiced by Harry Shearer, what Simpsons character was modeled after Ted Koppel? A: Kent Brockman
Q: In a bit of nationalistic pride, what is the name of the NHL hockey team based in Toronto, CA? A: Maple Leafs
Q: The original Monopoly game was based upon the street names of what US city? A: Atlantic City, NJ
Q: Butters Stoch, Pip Pirrip, Token Black, and Wendy Testaburger are school characters in what long running animated TV series? A: South Park
Q: The policy of what total bad ass, and US President, was to speak softly and carry a big stick? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Mt. St. Helens, the stratovolcano responsible for the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States, is located in which mountain range? A: Cascade
Q: What Big East university, located in Washington, D.C., is nicknamed The Hoyas, from the Latin Hoya Saxa? A: Georgetown
Q: Sunday saw a class that included Julio Cesar Chavez, Joe Cortez, and Sylvester Stallone inducted into what Hall of Fame? A: Boxing
Q: What real estate developer, casino owner, reality TV star, and potential 2012 presidential candidate celebrated his birthday on Tuesday? A: Donald Trump
Q: June 17, 1994 saw a low speed chase up Interstate 405 as OJ Simpson was pursued by some of Los Angeles finest for a good 6 hours. What former teammate of OJs was driving his white Ford Bronco? A: Al Cowlings
Q: On June 15, 1844, Charles Goodyear was granted a patent for the vulcanization of rubber, a process by which what element, represented by the symbol S, is added to rubber? A: Sulfur
Q: "The truth is out there" was the tagline for what TV series? A: The X-Files
Q: Born Annelies Marie on June 12, 1929, who famously received a diary for her 13th birthday? A: Anne Frank
Q: June 16 is a day to celebrate the life of Irish writer James Joyce and to relieve the events in which of his novels? A: Ulysses
Q: In the NATO phonetic alphabet, what word represents the letter M (the 13th letter, that falls between Lima and November)? A: Mike
Q: What arrived in New York Harbor on the French freighter Isere on June 17, 1885, having been packed in 214 crates, except for the right arm, which had been in country for 9 years? A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: Who famously opined that "In the future, everyone will be world-famous for 15 minutes"? A: Andy Warhol
Q: What is the name of the brand of tools sold by Sears? A: Craftsmen
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, what merry old soul called for his pipe and he called for his bowl And he called for his fiddlers three? A: Old King Cole
Q: Used primarily for stability, where on a fish, whale, dolphin, or porpoise, do you find the dorsal fin? A: Back
Q: What comic strip, created by George Gately in 1973, features a wisecracking cat known for annoying the manager of the fish store, tipping over garbage cans, annoying the milkman, and pursuing female cats? A: Heathcliff
Q: “Give me a break, give me a break; break me off a piece of that” what? A: Kit Kat
Q: Which master magician and all around skeptic created the The One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge, which offers a prize of $1,000,000 to anyone who can demonstrate evidence of any paranormal, supernatural or occult power or event, under test conditions agreed to by both parties? A: James Randi
Q: Born on this day in 1971, what rapper, who was killed in a drive by shooting in Las Vegas in 1996, is recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the highest-selling rap artist, with over 75 million albums sold worldwide, including 4 posthumous albums that have gone platinum or better? A: Tupac Shakur
Q: What is the name of the cola that is favored by the characters on The Simpsons? A: Buzz
Q: What porcine inspired name is given to amateur radio operators? A: Ham
Q: Who is the current mayor of Seattle? A: Mike McGinn
Q: Used primarly to measure the distance between stars, what unit of length is defined as 9,460,730,472,580.8 km? A: Lightyear
Q: Popular among California surfers, what is the name of the style of station wagon in which the rear portion of the car's bodywork is made of wood? A: Woodie
Q: What boxer was, who holds the record as the youngest to win the WBC, WBA, and IFB world heavyweight titles, was banned from boxing for a year for biting off a portion of Evander Holyfield's ear? A: Mike Tyson
Q: What is the more common name for the dog known as the Alsatian? A: German Shepherd
Q: It has long been thought that the Reverend Elijah Craig, of Georgetown, Ky, produce the first batch of what, on June 14, 1789? A: Bourbon
Q: Founded on June 13, 1942, Wild Bill Donovan headed what wartime intelligence agency that eventually became the CIA? A: O(ffice) of S(trategic) S(ervices)
Q: Pullet describes the young (less than 1 year of age) of what species of domesticated animal? A: Chicken
Q: Following a much televised low-speed chase down Interstate 405, OJ Simpson was arrested on June 17, 1994, in connection with the murder of what two people? A: Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman
Q: Which type of plant did Gregor Mendel use in his famous genetic experiments? A: Peas
Q: The northern most of the five major circles of latitude, what is the name for the line at 66º 33′ 44″ N? A: Artic Circle
Q: June 18, 1812 saw the start of the War of 1812 when the US Congress declared war on who? A: Great Britain
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the multi-headed monster slain by Heracles as his second labor? A: Hydra
Q: Grammy award-winning musician Yo-Yo Ma is famous for his virtuosity on what instrument? A: Cello
Q: According to the moral of the Aesop fable The Milkmaid and The Pail, what should you never count before they're hatched? A: Chickens
Q: In drafting (and elementary school math), you would use a compass to draw what geometric shape? A: A circle
Q: Also known as mother's ruin, which alcoholic drink is distilled from juniper berries? A: Gin
Q: What is the name of the cooking technique where vegetables are cut into narrow fine sticks? A: Julienne
Q: “Don’t one of you fire until you see the whites of their eyes!” was the order General Prescott gave to his men at the beginning of what moderately famous Revolutionary War battle? A: Battle of Bunker Hill
Q: Who is the spokescat for 9 Lives cat food? A: Morris
Q: Name the 1984 movie, rated 8.0 out of 11 stars on IMDB, from its’ plot summary: “blank, the world’s loudest band, is chronicled by hack documentarian Marti DeBergi on what proves to be a fateful tour.” A: This is Spinal Tap
Q: Leghorn, Buff Orpington and Plymouth Rock are all breeds of what? A: Chickens
Q: First introduced commercially by Wham-O in 1957, what toy, which consistently makes the list of top toys ever, consists of a plastic ring 28 inches or 40 inches in diameter? A: Hula hoop
Q: One of the few states where the capital is also its largest city, what is the seat of government for West Virginia? A: Charleston
Q: June 23, 1941 saw the German army launch Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of what state? A: The Soviet Union
Q: A member of the horseradish family, wasabi is made from which part of the wasabi plant? Roots, Leaves, or Stems? A: Roots
Q: According to legend, Cleopatra committed suicide by holding what to her breast? A: An Asp
Q: Hernando de Soto was the first European documented to have crossed what U.S. river? A: Mississippi
Q: What can be a color (pinkish-orange), a marine animal, and a type of snake? A: Coral
Q: Known as The Show-Me State, what was the 24th state to join the union on August 10, 1821? A: Missouri
Q: What is the current name for the stadium formerly known as Qwest Field, home of the Sounders and the Seahawks? A: CenturyLink Field
Q: The face of the Great Seal of the United States, adopted on June 20, 1782, features an eagle clutching 13 arrows in one talon, and what in the other? A: Olive branch
Q: What revolutionary war general, whose name is now synonymous with being a traitor, offered to surrender West Point to the British in 1780? A: Benedict Arnold
Q: The Gregorian calendar, which was adopted by papal bull in 1582, replaced which other western calendar? A: Julian calendar
Q: June 21, 1877 saw the hanging of ten Irish immigrants, believed members of what gang supposedly responsible for crimes and kidnappings throughout the Pennsylvania coal fields? A: Molly Maguires
Q: The world's largest single structure made by a living organism, Australia's Great Barrier Reef is located in which sea? A: Coral Sea
Q: June 21, 1973, saw the US Supreme Court establish the Miller Test, which determines whether something is, or isnt, what? A: Obscene
Q: On June 25, 1991, Slovenia and Croatia declared their independence from what country? A: Yugoslavia
Q: Had an eponymous show on MTV in 1999-2000; Had a short lived marriage to Drew Barrymore A: Tom Green
Q: Longtime host of The Best Damn Sports Show Period; Comedian married to Rosanne Barr from 1990-1994 A: Tom Arnold
Q: Yaris, Avalon, and Sienna are all types of what? A: Toyota vehicles
Q: Appearing on the big screen in July, what cartoon characters are the creation of Belgian cartoonist Peyo (Pieer Culliford), born on June 25, 1928? A: The Smurfs
Q: Born on June 20, 1924, what fifth grade dropout went on to become the most decorated American soldier of WWII, before launching a successful movie career? A: Audie Murphy
Q: The liqueur Frangelico and the spread Nutella get their distinctive flavor from what? A: Hazelnut
Q: On June 25, 1953, "photo-journalist" Jacqueline Bouvier announced her engagement to whom? A: John F Kennedy
Q: June 25, 1876 saw George Custer meet his Waterloo at the Battle of Little Big Horn, which happened in what present state? A: Montana
Q: Who's missing: Mario Batali, Cat Cora, Jose Garces, Masaharu Morimoto, Michael Symon? A: Bobby Flay
Q: What does the DSM-IV define as: A. The predominant complaint is difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep, or nonrestorative sleep. B. The sleep disturbance causes clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning.     C. The sleep disturbance does not occur exclusively during the course of Narcolepsy, Breathing-Related Sleep Disorder, Circadian Rhythm Sleep Disorder, or a Parasomnia. D. The disturbance does not occur exclusively during the course of another mental disorder. E. The disturbance is not due to the direct physiological effects of a substance or a general medical condition. A: Insomnia Disorder
Q: Which food of the Gods is said to bestow immortality? A: Ambrosia
Q: The 1947 novel "I, the Jury", which was the first to feature detective Mike Hammer, was written by what New York author? A: Mickey Spillane
Q: Including the sacred law of the pack, cub scouting borrows many of it's themes from what Rudyard Kipling novel? A: The Jungle Book
Q: What product advertises itself as “The Quicker Picker-Upper”? A: Bounty paper towels
Q: What is the name of the largest gem quality diamond in the world, at 3,106.75 carats (rough), discovered on June 26, 1905? A: Cullinan Diamond
Q: Whom did Sitting Bull defeat at the battle of Little Bighorn on June 26, 1876, along with his brothers Thomas and Boston? A: George Armstrong Custer
Q: Which old Russian word meaning 'fast' is the other name for the Russian Wolfhound? A: Borzoi
Q: Appearing in Parade magazine since 1980, what is the name of the single panel comic strip, inked by Bunny Hoest and John Reiner, that features pleasant, likable Saint Bernard, who by his very size, gets in the way of the family he lives with? A: Howard Huge
Q: Named for a famous Chicago bartender, what is the common name for a drink that has been spiked with a drug, usually chloral hydrate, given to someone in order to incapacitate them? A: Mickey Finn
Q: Born Eric Arthur Blair in India, on June 25, 1903, what British author penned such books as Burmese Days, Down and Out in Paris and Washington, and Homage to Catalonia? A: George Orwell
Q: Featuring distinctive blue handles, what is the brand of tools sold exclusive by Lowes? A: Kobalt
Q: Given the large number of deposits located within, the name of what South American country is based on the Latin for silver? A: Argentina
Q: If verso is the left side page of a book, what name is given to the right? A: Recto
Q: What type of animal is the video game character Sonic, introduced by Sega on June 23, 1991? A: Hedgehog
Q: Grover Cleveland was the only US president to serve non-consecutive terms. Which president, the 23rd, served in between his two terms? A: Benjamin Harrison
Q: First founded 182 years ago today, which organization requires a belief in the Great (or Grand) Architect of the Universe? A: Freemasons
Q: True or False: Chewing gum can take up to seven years to pass through the human digestive system? A: False
Q: Nero Wolfe, that famous detective created by Rex Stout, rarely leaves his house. What is the name of his able bodied assistant, who does all of Nero's legwork? A: Archie Goodwin
Q: The 11th amendment to the US constitution addresses the ability of citizens and foreigners to sue whom? A: States
Q: What sort of animal is a Rhodesian ridgeback? A: A dog
Q: June 7 saw the 63rd annual ceremony for what award given to recognize achievement in live American theatre? A: Tony Award
Q: How many teaspoons make a tablespoon? A: 3
Q: What skateboarder has launched a 10 years series of video games that have dominated the genre? A: Tony Hawk
Q: Which Knight of the Round Table found the Holy Grail? A: Sir Galahad
Q: How is the score of a forfeited baseball game reported? A: 9-0
Q: If you wanted to let more light into a camera lens, would you choose a lower or a higher aperture number (f-stop)? A: Lower
Q: What is the name of the recording label founded by the Beatles? A: Apple
Q: The largest portion of Yellowstone National Park is located in which state? A: Wyoming
Q: The first 10 amendments to the US Constitution are collectively known as what? A: The Bill of Rights
Q: With what unfortunate name did Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin dub their first born daughter? A: Apple
Q: After how many years does Halley's comet appear? A: 76
Q: What is the oldest soft drink in America? A: Dr. Pepper
Q: What is the name of the medieval art that has a goal of turning base metals into gold? A: Alchemy
Q: The density, or richness, of which substance is measured by a lactometer? A: Milk
Q: Who is the spokesperson for Kellogs Frosted Flakes? A: Tony the Tiger
Q: Traditionally, what does a cooper make? A: Barrels
Q: How many troy ounces are in a troy pound? A: 12
Q: The United States launched Operation Desert Shield in 1990 to prevent Iraq from invading what country? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: The majority of the Mohave Desert is located in which state? A: California
Q: Who gnawed a chunk from Evander Holyfield's ear on June 28, 1997? A: Mike Tyson
Q: Blanket, cross, and buttonhole are all types of what? A: Stitches
Q: In response to a Soviet blockade, June 26th, 1948, saw the Western Allies begin an airlift to what city? A: Berlin
Q: Who was is the only two term US President to be counted twice in the numbering of the presidents? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: Which space probe, launched in 1977, is set to reach the edge of the known solar system and be the first man made object to experience interstellar space? A: Voyager 1
Q: What 19th century author wrote the pentalogy of Leatherstocking Tales novels featuring the protagonist Natty Bumppo? A: James Fenimore Cooper
Q: What can be an invertebrate animal, a screw-like gear, or a piece of malicious software? A: Worm
Q: Which US President served between Grover Cleveland's two terms? A: Benjamin Harrison
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as 'by deed', is taken to mean common in practice, but not established by law? A: De facto
Q: What children’s playground game ends with the chant “we all fall down”? A: Ring Around the Rosie
Q: June 25, 1876 saw which Lakota Sioux holy man defeat Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer and the 7th Cavalry at the Battle of Little Big Horn? A: Sitting Bull
Q: June 28, 1914 saw which Austrian Archduke assassinated, setting in motion a chain of events which started WWI just a month later? A: Franz Ferdinand
Q: What famous fictional detective, created by Erle Stanley Gardner, had a famous secretary named Della Street? A: Perry Mason
Q: What moderately famous celebrity, who died on June 25, 2009, called the 2,800 acre Neverland ranch his home until 2006? A: Michael Jackson
Q: With an atomic number of 80, what element takes its symbol from the Latin hydrargyrum, and was previously used in thermometers? A: Mercury
Q: What future politician starred alongside a chimp named Bonzo in the 1951 movie Bedtime for Bonzo? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What currency was used in the Netherlands until 2002 and in Suriname until 2004? A: Guilder
Q: Mountainous Sherpas and bad-assed Ghurkas are native to which country? A: Nepal
Q: Which team bats first in a baseball game? The home team, or the visitors? A: The visitors
Q: "Colonel Mustard in the Library with the Pipe" might be an example of winning what Parker Brothers game? A: Clue
Q: What city serves as the Prime Meridian, 0 degrees for longitude calculations? A: Greenwich, England
Q: The world's largest public corporation by revenue, what company had its first location opened in Rogers, Arkansas on July 2, 1962? A: Walmart
Q: What can be a power source, an organized group of artillery pieces, and contact with another in a manner likely to cause bodily harm? A: Battery
Q: Lead by total bad-ass Teddy Roosevelt, the Rough Rider charge up Kettle and San Juan hills happened on July 1, 1898 in what country? A: Cuba
Q: Native mostly to Mexico, what is the name of the blue cactus used to make Tequila? A: Agave
Q: Thursday marks the demise of the PAC-10 athletic conference and the birth of the PAC-12 when what two universities join the conference? A: Utah and Colorado
Q: What fast food restaurant chain, rocked when 4 children died following an e. coli outbreak in 1990, frequently used antenna balls in their TV commercials? A: Jack in the Box
Q: Hall-of-fame boxer Mike Tyson was disqualified from his June 27, 1997 fight against what World Heavyweight Champion, when Tyson bit off a portion of his ear? A: Evander Holyfield
Q: What liquor, the primary ingredient in the original Martini and the Singapore Sling, gets its flavor from the juniper berry? A: Gin
Q: Double Dutch is a variation of what children's game? A: Jump Ropes
Q: July 2, 1961 saw Nobel Prize winner Ernest Hemingway commit suicide at his farm in Ketchum in what state? A: Idaho
Q: Ambrosia, Pippin, Gravenstein, and McIntosh are all types of what? A: Apples
Q: Sarajevo is the capital of what modern country? A: Bosnia and Herzegovina
Q: 28th June, 1914, saw the assassination of Austrian Archduke, Franz Ferdinand, the triggering event of World War 1. In which European city were the Archduke and his wife, did the assassination take place? A: Sarajevo
Q: What product advertised itself as “The Freshmaker”? A: Mentos
Q: “You’re traveling through another dimension, a dimension not only of sight and sound but of mind; a journey into a wondrous land whose boundaries are that of imagination. That’s the signpost up ahead your next stop” ? A: The Twilight Zone
Q: What university summoned the National Guard after protesters set the ROTC building on fire on May 2, 1970? A: Kent State
Q: What conference, which is now held in Europe, Asia, as well as the US, hosts a series of talks of 18 minute maximum length, devoted to "ideas worth spreading"? A: TED talks
Q: Because we can never get enough vampires or werewolves, the 3rd installment of the Twilight saga is hit the big screen today. What is the name of the book on which it is based? A: Eclipse
Q: Surrounded by the usual group of asshat protestors, the G20 economic summit concluded earlier this week after 2 days of meeting in what city? A: Toronto
Q: The last contact coming from navigator Fred Noonan on July 2, 1937, who famously disappeared somewhere over the Central Pacific but was not declared dead until Jan 5, 1939? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: What daily comic strip, introduced by Brian Basset in 2001, tells a story about a young boy, who's actual name is Russell, and his dog? A: Red and Rover
Q: What legendary guitarist, rock star (having released 31 albums over his career), radio and TV host is known as The Motor City Madman A: Ted Nugent
Q: Who's missing: Lois Lane, Perry White, Jimmy Olsenm, Steve Lombard? A: Clark Kent
Q: Ann Rules book The Stranger Beside Me, is about what serial killer, assumed to have murdered 35 people, before hitting the electric chair in Starke, Florida on January 24, 1989? A: Ted Bundy
Q: What popular mouthwash, introduced in 1879, was first marketed as a floor cleaner and a cure for gonorrhea? A: Listerine
Q: In which nursery ryhme did the title character get his head mended with vinegar and brown paper, following a trip up and down a hill? A: Jack and Jill
Q: A martini is generally perfected by a four to one ration of gin to vermouth, topped with an olive. What is common name for the same drink that employs a pickled onion instead of the olive? A: Gibson
Q: Born on June 27, 1880, who was the deaf and blind author, who wrote such works as The Story of my Life, The World I Live In, and the Socialist tract Out of the Dark? A: Helen Keller
Q: What Seattle suburb, the second largest in the county as of tomorrow, is home to REI and Oberto and a frequent stop for those tabbed for King County jury duty? A: Kent
Q: The Sprint Cup is the top-level series in what sport? A: NASCAR
Q: June 27, 1963 saw the introduction of what no ubiquitous piece of technology, outside a Barclays Bank in Enfield, North London? A: ATM
Q: Born on July 28, 1866 in London, what author is behind books such as The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin, The Tale of Jemima Puddle-Duck, and The Tale of Peter Rabbit? A: Beatrix Potter
Q: Often called one of the best known sentences in the English language, complete the second sentence of the Declaration of Independence: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with" what? A: Certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
Q: On July 5, 1996, scientists from the Roslin Institute near Edinburgh, Scotland, created Dolly, the first cloned mammal. What type of animal was she? A: Sheep
Q: What can be a cherry, a crooner, and a search engine? A: Bing
Q: In photography, what term is used to express the diameter of the entrance pupil in terms of the focal length of the lens? A: f-stop
Q: A misanthrope is characterized by the hatred of what? A: the human species
Q: An acute angle is one that is less than 90 degrees, while an obtuse angle is between 90 and 180 degrees. What is the name of an angle that is exactly 90 degrees? A: Right
Q: Today marks the birthday of Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso, born Lhamo Dondrub, the 14th Spiritual leader of Tibet who fled to India in 1959, better known as whom? A: The Dali Lama
Q: In baseball scoring, the pitcher is 1, the catcher is 2. What position is represented by the number 6? A: short stop
Q: What unit of area, named for the Old English word for "Open Field", was originally defined as the area that could be plowed by one man behind one ox in one day? A: Acre
Q: Dame Jane Goodall spent 45 years in Gombe Stream National Park, Tanzania studying what animals? A: Chimpanzees
Q: Beluga, Ossetra, Sterlet, and Sevruga are all types of what? A: Caviar
Q: Nicknamed The Great Lakes State, what was the 26th state to join the union on January 26, 1837? A: Michigan
Q: Lasting 9 seasons, from July 1989 to May 1998, what NBC show described itself as “a show about nothing”? A: Seinfeld
Q: In flagrante delicto is a legal term meaning someone has been what? A: caught in the act
Q: By congressional resolution, Sam Wilson, of Troy, New York, a meat supplier for the Army during the War of 1812, is recognized as the progenitor of what famous American symbol? A: Uncle Sam
Q: Which US Mint, which stamps its' coins with the letter S, was created on July 3, 1854 by an act of Congress? A: San Francisco
Q: July 5, 1937 saw what Austin, Mn company introduce everyone's favorite chopped pork shoulder based meat product, Spam? A: Hormel
Q: Although it has been around since 1901, which baseball league is known as the Junior Circuit? A: American League
Q: According to the proverb, the road to hell is what? A: Paved with good intentions
Q: What car company was forced to recall over 2.3 million vehicles earlier this year over reports of stuck accelerator pedals in 9 different models? A: Toyota
Q: July 8, 1958 was the birth of what American actor, who, due to his prolific career, can supposedly be linked to another actor in as little as 6 steps? A: Kevin Bacon
Q: The highest ranking hand in straight poker, what name is commonly given to a run of 5 cards, all of the same suit, that rank from Ace to 10? A: Royal Flush
Q: What single panel comic strip, running daily from 1980 to 1995, featured the surreal humor of WSU alum Gary Larson? A: The Far Side
Q: The 2010 Tour de France kicked off on Saturday in what European city, with an 8.9 km prologue, followed by a 223.5 km sprint the following day? A: Rotterdam, The Netherlands
Q: "You got peanut butter in my chocolate! You got chocolate in my peanut butter! Two great tastes that taste great together." was the advertising slogan for what product? A: Reeses Peanut Butter Cups
Q: As President of Congress, whose signature dominates the Declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: Forcing you to pay $75 to the bank, what is pictured on the Luxury Tax space on a standard Monopoly board? A: Diamond ring
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who had a farm, ee-i-ee-i-o? A: Old MacDonald
Q: Who’s missing: David St. Hubbins, Derek Smalls, “Caucasian” Jeffery Vanston, Gregg Bissonette, and plus 18 other people, who all disappeared under mysterious circumstances, including a bizarre gardening accident, choking on vomit of unkown origin, and A: Nigel Tufnel
Q: Two people who signed the Declaration of Independence went on to be president. For a point each, name them. A: Thomas Jefferson, John Adams
Q: The Hershey's confection known as Mr. Goodbar is a mixture of chocolate and what other ingredient? A: Peanuts
Q: What is the common name for the upper incisors of the elephant? A: Tusk
Q: If you ordered a dish containing saag in an Indian restaurant, what must it contain? A: Spinach
Q: Sunday saw the conclusion of which of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments, the oldest such tournament in the world? A: The Championships, Wimbledon
Q: Deriving its name from an old Icelandic word meaning erupt, what name is given to a natural hot spring that intermittently ejects steam and water into the air? A: Geyser
Q: When a jeweler refers to a diamond’s “cut,” he is describing what aspect of the gem? A: Shape
Q: Who went up the hill to fetch a pail of water? A: Jack and Jill
Q: A falling object which ceases to accelerate due to the forces of drag and gravity being equal reaches what rate of descent (speed)? A: Terminal Velocity
Q: The young of what animal are known as fawns? A: Deer
Q: On what type of surface is the Wimbledon tournament held? A: Grass
Q: When applied to (sparkling) wine, what does brut mean? A: Dry
Q: July 12th marks the anniversary of the first ever concert of the moderately famous band known as The Rolling Stones. In what year did this concert take place? A: 1962
Q: What was the name of the character who owned Mayberry's only barber shop on The Andy Griffith Show? A: Floyd
Q: What can be a Greek god, a fashion house, and a fictional bureaucrat? A: Hermes
Q: What was the name of the Greenpeace ship, the former fishing trawler Sir William Hardy, that was sunk in Auckland harbor by French Secret Service agents to prevent it interfering with planned nuclear tests? A: Rainbow Warrior
Q: July 12, 1862 saw the creation of what decoration, the highest military medal able to be awarded? A: Medal of Honor
Q: Negev, Atacama, and Namib are all types off what? A: Deserts
Q: Known as The Sunshine State, what was the 27th state to join the union on March 3, 1845? A: Florida
Q: What does the giant ape use as weapons against Jumpman in the original, 1981 Donkey Kong game? A: Barrels
Q: The 14th of July marks what major holiday for the French? A: Bastille Day
Q: Three musicians make a trio, while 4 comprise a quartet. How many musicians are there in a nonet? A: 9
Q: What can be a medical condition caused by inadequate oxygen consumption, a suspension component, and a WNBA team? A: Shock
Q: July 12, 1976 saw the debut of what long running TV series, originally hosted by Richard Dawkins, before John O'Hurley and now Steve Harvey took over the job? A: Family Feud
Q: July 16, 1917 saw the death of what leader, Emperor of Russia, Grand Prince of Finland, and titular King of Poland, and his children Olga, Tatiana, Maria, Anastasia, and Alexei? A: Tsar Nicholas II
Q: The Pacific Aero Products Co company, which had its founding on July 15, 1915 on the banks of the Duwamish, is better known today as what? A: Boeing
Q: The nuclear age was born on July 16, 1945 when the first atomic bomb was tested at White Sands Proving Grounds outside Socorro in what Southwestern state? A: New Mexico
Q: Including such tasks as slaying the Nemean lion, cleaning the Augean stables in a single day, and obtaining the Girdle of the Amazon Queen, how many labors was Hercules supposed to perform? A: 12
Q: STS-135, the last planned mission for NASA's space shuttle fleet, launched which shuttle on a 13 day trip to international space station? A: Atlantis
Q: Does the boiling point of water increase or decrease as you gain elevation? A: Decrease
Q: According to the myth, how many lives does a cat have? A: 9
Q: Which metal is extracted from the ore bauxite? A: Aluminium
Q: To prevent interference in an atomic test on the island of Moruroa, the French intelligence directorate sunk the ship Rainbow Warrior, operated by which non-governmental environmental organization, in Aukland harbor? A: Greenpeace
Q: In the game of craps, if one rolls snake eyes, what numbers appear on the dice? A: Ones
Q: Making possible the understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs, what was discovered outside an Egyptian village by a French soldier on July 15, 1799? A: The Rosetta Stone
Q: According to Mr. Owl, it takes 3 licks to get to the center of what? A: Tootsie Pop
Q: The oldest of the grand slam tennis tournaments, what is the only one still played on grass? A: Wimbledon
Q: Choctaw, Lummi, and Otoe are all types of what? A: Native American tribes
Q: For a point each, name the 4 countries surrounding Rwanda A: Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Q: Which US President, born Leslie Lynch King on July 14, 1913, was the longest lived US President at 93 years, 165 days? A: Gerald Ford
Q: With an atomic number of 11, what element gets its' from the Latin natrium? A: Sodium
Q: What famed Italian based fashion house has been struggling ever since major asshat Andrew Cunanan gunned down the founder and creative genius outside his Miami Beach mansion on July 15, 1997? A: Versace
Q: Which stock market trend is associated with increased investor confidence? Bull? Or Bear? A: Bull
Q: July 17, 1890 marked the death of what Scottish moral philosopher, considered the father of modern economics, who wrote such classics as An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations and The Theory of Moral Sentiments? A: Adam Smith
Q: In what country did the Sandinista National Liberation Front overthrow the Somoza regime in 1979? A: Nicaragua
Q: In craps, if one rolls boxcars, what numbers appear on the dice? A: Sixes
Q: July 15, 1951 marked the birth of what famed professional wrestler, known as The Body, who also spent 4 years as the governor of Minnesota? A: Jesse Ventura
Q: Commercial tuna fishing no longer uses nets, but mostly switched to using lines, due to public outcry over the accidental netting and subsequent killing of what marine animals? A: Dolphins
Q: What comic strip, introduced by Chester Gould in 1931, features the adventures of a hard hitting, fast-shooting, and intelligent police detective? A: Dick Tracy
Q: What famed fashion designer was gunned down outside his Miami home by certified asshat Andrew Cunanan on July 15, 1997? A: Gianni Versace
Q: In what traditional nursery rhyme do we see 4 and 20 blackbirds baked in a pie? A: Sing a Song of Sixpence
Q: According to the fictional sea shanty, were do we find 15 men, yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum? A: a Dead Man's Chest
Q: The Trinity test site, outside of Alamogordo, NM, saw the first test of the atomic bomb on July 16, 1945. Headed by J. Robert Oppenheimer, what was the name of the project that developed the bomb? A: Manhattan project
Q: "Ladies and gentlemen: the story you are about to hear is true. Only the names have been changed to protect the innocent." A: Dragnet
Q: “Following in his father’s footsteps as a naval aviator, Lieutenant Commander Harmon Rabb, Jr. suffered a crash while landing his Tomcat on a storm tossed carrier at sea. Diagnosed with night-blindness, Harm transferred to the Navy’s Judge Advocate General Corps which investigates, defends and prosecutes the law of the sea. There, with fellow JAG lawyer Major Sarah McKenzie, he now fights in and out of the courtroom with the same daring and tenacity that made him a Top Gun in the air.” A: JAG
Q: "In the criminal justice system, the people are represented by two separate yet equally important groups: the police, who investigate crime, and the district attorneys, who prosecute the offenders. These are their stories." A: Law and Order
Q: You got big dreams? You want fame? Well, fame costs. And right here is where you start paying–in sweat.” A: Fame
Q: Here’s how it is: Earth got used up, so we terraformed a whole new galaxy of Earths, some rich and flush with the new technologies, some, not so much. Central Planets, them as formed The Alliance, waged war to bring everyone under their rule. A few idiots tried to fight it, among them, myself. I’m Malcolm Reynolds, Captain of Serenity. Got a good crew: fighters, pilot, mechanic. We even picked up a preacher and a bona fide companion. There’s a doctor, too. Took his genius sister outta some Alliance camp, so they’re keeping a low profile. You got a job, we can do it, don’t much care what it is. A: Firefly
Q: What you are about to witness is real. The participants are not actors. They are the actual people who have already either filed suit or been served a summons to appear in a California municipal court. Both parties in the suit have agreed to dismiss their court cases and have their disputes settled here, in our forum: The People's Court. A: The People's Court
Q: Housed in a distinctive red case, July 12, 1960 saw the introduction of what popular toy, manufactered by The Ohio Art Company, which was originally called "The Magic Screen"? A: Etch A Sketch
Q: The Nobel Prize in Literature 1954 was awarded to Ernest Hemingway for "his mastery of the art of narrative, most recently demonstrated in what novella, featuring as a main character a tired gentleman named Santiago, and for the influence that he has exerted on contemporary style". A: The Old Man and the Sea
Q: Former Governor-General of the Phillipines, who is the only person ever to hold the positions of both US President and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? A: William Howard Taft
Q: What city is missing from the following group: Phoenix, Houston, Chicago, Los Angeles? A: New York City
Q: Known as the Barefoot Bandit, what is the name of the Camano Island "folk hero"/asshat who was recently apprehended in Eleuthera, Bahamas, after stealing five small aircraft, a boat and two cars, and in the burglaries of at least 100 homes? A: Colton Harris-Moore
Q: According to the 1973 motion picture, what was “Soylent Green”? A: People
Q: Burgess Meredith and Danny Devito have both played which Batman character? A: The Penguin
Q: Cesar Romero and Jack Nicholson have both played which Batman character? A: The Joker
Q: If a team at contract bridge wins a grand slam, how many tricks have they won? A: 13
Q: While filming the documentary Super Size Me, Morgan Spurlock ate at what fast food restaurant exclusively for 30 days? A: McDonald's
Q: How many cups are in a gallon? A: 16
Q: Which stock market trend is associated with decreased investor confidence? Bull? Or Bear? A: Bear
Q: On July 16, 1945, the nuclear age was ushered in with the explosion of a test bomb at the Trinity test site in what US state? A: New Mexico
Q: What kind of pet did Lord Byron supposedly keep in his rooms at Cambridge University because the rules clearly stated that dogs weren't permitted? A: A bear
Q: The March of Dimes was originally started to raise money to combat what disease? A: Polio
Q: Much to the dismay of Paul Simon, what Kodak product was recently retired after a 74 year run? A: Kodachrome
Q: At what address did fictional detective Sherlock Holmes live/work with Dr. Watson? A: 221B Baker Street
Q: In the English language version of Scrabble, what is the point value of the vowels? A: 1
Q: What, according to legend, did Davey Crocket name his rifle? A: Betsy
Q: In the stupid celebrity kids name category, what superhero inspired name did Nicholas Cage bestow upon his son? A: Kal-El
Q: To what type of animal does ursine relate? A: Bear
Q: What makeup slathered asshat, along with her husband Jim, bilked millions from unsuspecting believers, as head of the daily religious TV show, the PTL club? A: Tammy Faye Bakker
Q: Lake Ontario is the smallest of the Great Lakes by area. What is the smallest by volume? A: Erie
Q: Founded in 1892, Ezra Fitch hooked up with whom in order to open their first sporting good store, before ultimately settling on fashion? A: Abercrombie
Q: Where do the 12 Greek gods call home? A: Olympus
Q: George Washington was the first US president. Who was the second? A: John Adams
Q: What is the largest member of the cat family that purrs? A: Cougar
Q: What famed Welsh pirate lends his name to a brand of rum? A: Admiral Sir Henry Morgan
Q: Michael Jackson’s number one hit “Ben” was an ode to what type of animal? A: Rat
Q: Seven years older, Mycroft is the more corpulent, more intelligent brother of whom? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: According to the fairy tale Goldilocks, whose bed was too hard? A: Papa bear
Q: Before being supposedly discovered at the counter of Schwab's Drug store, Marilyn Monroe was known as who? A: Norma Jean Baker
Q: What "melts in your mouth, not in your hands?" A: M&Ms
Q: The detonation of the first atomic bomb, Trinity, ushered in the Atomic Age, when the bomb was tested outside of Alamogordo in what US state on July 16, 1945? A: New Mexico
Q: What does one have a pocketful of in the nursery rhyme “Sing a Song of Sixpence”? A: Rye
Q: Which author of books such as The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, First Things First, Principle-Centered Leadership, and The Seven Habits of Highly Effective Families, died on Monday due to complications from a bicycle accident? A: Stephen R. Covey
Q: Signed on July 16, 1790, the Residence Act established what as the US Capitol? A: Washington DC
Q: What is the more common name for a lexicon, of which Dr. Johnson's is an early example? A: Dictionary
Q: Which Mesoamerican culture worshipped the feathered serpent known as Quetzalcoatl? A: Aztecs
Q: In theater terminology, which part of a stage is closest to the audience: upstage or downstage? A: Downstage
Q: Although it was headquartered at Oak Ridge, TN, and the University of Chicago, what was the name of the WWII project that created the atomic bomb? A: The Manhattan project
Q: If you are eating salted, unfertilized sturgeon roe, what are you eating? A: Caviar
Q: Obtained from the ore cinnabar, vermilion is a shade of what color? A: Red
Q: Monday marked the 61st anniversary of the publication of noted recluse J. D. Salinger's only novel, which was what? A: The Catcher in the Rye
Q: What 1980s-era video game was set in a maze of mushrooms? A: Centipede
Q: Whose Wild West show, which ran from 1883 until 1908, featured such performers as Annie Oakley, Sitting Bull, and Frank Butler, among many others? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: The Oscar winning song "A Whole New World" accompanies Aladdin and Jasmine when they explore the world atop of what? A: Magic Carpet
Q: First settled in 1565, what is the oldest, continually occupied European-established city in the continental US? A: St. Augustine, FL
Q: Durum, Spelt, and Einkorn are all types of what? A: Wheat
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries that share a border with the Republic of Ecuador. A: Colombia, Peru
Q: What is ursus arctos horribilis commonly known as? A: Grizzly bear
Q: Gonzo journalism, a style in which reporters involve themselves in the action to such a degree that they become the central figures of their stories, was created by whom? A: Hunter S. Thompson
Q: Born Lee Jun-fan in San Francisco, what famed martial artist, who died on Jul 20, 1973, founded the martial art known as Jeet Kune Do? A: Bruce Lee
Q: Doing something that must surely have earned him an asswhuppin, for what did Jack of Jack and the Beanstalk fame, trade the cow he was supposed to sell at the market? A: Magic Beans
Q: What sport features a scrum, in which three rows of opposing players lock together and compete for a ball placed on the ground? A: Rugby
Q: What word, which, when said loud enough, always makes you sound precocious, is defined as what you say when you don't know what to say? A: Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
Q: Which part of the human body does impetigo affect? A: The skin
Q: What famous outlaw committed the Wild West's first train robbery on July 21, 1873 in Adair, Iowa? A: Jesse James
Q: What jazz legend was commonly known as Satchmo, short for satchelmouth, and has the New Orleans airport named for him? A: Louis Armstrong
Q: According to Greek mythology, both blessed and cursed by the god Apollo, which daughter of King Priam was given the gift of prophecy with the rub that nobody would believe her? A: Cassandra
Q: What can be a South American capital, a pepper, or a Porsche? A: Cayenne
Q: July 18, 1925 saw the publication of the first volume of the book whose title translates as My Struggle or My Battle, written by what 20th century total asshat? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Produced by the The Herman Goelitz Candy Company, Jelly Bellys, a favorite of Ronald Reagan, are what type of candy? A: Jelly Beans
Q: What was the number of the mobile hospital unit on TVs M*A*S*H? A: 4077th
Q: On July 17, 1938 Douglas "Wrong Way" Corrigan filed a flight plan that indicated he was flying from New York to Low Angeles. True to his name, where did he end up? A: Ireland
Q: July 20, 1919, was the birth of what New Zealand mountaineer, explorer and philanthropist, who made sherpa Tenzing Norgay an international celebrity? A: Sir Edmund Hillary
Q: July 18, 1969 saw the death of campaign worker Mary Jo Kopechne, when a car driven by what famed politician went off a bridge on Chappaquiddick Island, MA, an accident from which he was the only survivor? A: Ted Kennedy
Q: Named for the founder, what is the name given to the upscale luxury hotels and resorts operated by the Hilton hotel chain? A: Conrad.
Q: “To infinity… and beyond!” is the catchphrase of what Toy Story character? A: Buzz Lightyear.
Q: Who won the 1937 Pulitzer Prize for her only novel, Gone with the Wind, which was subsequent made into a somewhat popular movie? A: Margaret Mitchell.
Q: The Crocodile Hunter was a nickname given to what Australian naturalist, who was killed by a slightly irritated sting ray in 2006? A: Steve Irwin.
Q: What amusement park, the second most visited park in the world in 2010, was first opened on July 17, 1955? A: Disneyland
Q: The legend of the Pied Piper of Hamelin, who lured all but three of the children of Hamelin to their death, was originally hired by the townspeople to rid the town of what? A: Rats
Q: July 19, 1860 saw the birth of what infamous New England spinster who, When she saw what she had done gave her father forty-one? A: Lizzie Borden
Q: What neighboring city is the chief rival of The Simpson's home town of Springfield? A: Shelbyville
Q: As depicted in the 2009 film Public Enemies, which “Public Enemy No 1” was gunned down outside Chicago’s Biograph Theatre on July 22, 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: Named after its founder, Leon Leonwood, what Freeport, ME based retailer of clothing and outdoor gear is well known for their Hudson's Bay Point Blanket? A: L.L. Bean
Q: The 18th of July, 1976 saw what Romanian athlete score the first ever perfect 10 in Olympic gymnastics? A: Nadia Comaneci
Q: In the Tour de France, the overall leader wears the yellow jersey, the king of the mountain wears the red and white polka dot. What color does the sprint leader wear? A: Green
Q: What blues rocker is backed by The Destroyers? A: George Thorogood
Q: On July 21, 1873, Jesse James and the James-Younger gang pulled off the first successful what of the American West, in Adair Iowa? A: Train robbery
Q: “When your here, you’re family” is the advertising slogan for what national restaurant chain? A: Olive Garden
Q: What comic strip, introduced by Aaron McGruder in 1999, features the characters Huey Freeman, a angry, cynical 10 year old boy, and his younger brother Riley, who is a fan of the thug life? A: The Boondocks
Q: What famed martial artist, who died on July 20, 1970, is buried in Lakeview Cemetery up on Capitol Hill, next to his son, also a martial artist? A: Bruce Lee
Q: July 20, 1969 saw the landing of what NASA mission, the first to land men on the moon? A: Apollo 11
Q: What World War II figure was known as Old Blood and Guts? A: George Patton
Q: A case that riveted the nation, the case of The State of Tennessee v. John Thomas Scopes concluded on July 21, 1925, with the jury finding Mr. Scopes guilty of teaching what? A: Evolution
Q: What color are the 0 (and potentially 00) spots on a roulette wheel? A: Green
Q: According to the proverb, a what in your hand is worth two in your bush? A: bird
Q: Claiming to be the largest independent new and used bookstore in the world, what downtown Portland institution occupies over 68,000 sq feet of retail floor space? A: Powell
Q: A parent company of on of the worlds largest consumer products brands Unilever, What product did Lever Brothers manufacture when they first opened shop in 1885? A: Soap
Q: Note quite the Canyonero (or suburban, for that matter), what full sized SUV from Chevrolet is the companion to the GMC Yukon? A: Tahoe
Q: Which U.S. president introduced an economic recovery plan popularly known as The New Deal? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: The logo for Amazon.com features a smile that connects what 2 letters in the name Amazon? A: A and Z
Q: What futuristic cartoon character had a daughter Judy and a boy named Elroy? A: George Jetson
Q: Poetess Emma Lazarus was born on July 22, 1849 in New York City, and is best known for her poem The New Colossus, which is prominently displayed where? A: The base of the Statue of Liberty
Q: Which book by Dr. Seuss features a character who calls himself “Sam I Am”? A: Green Eggs and Ham
Q: In a sad day for all of us, July 23, 1984 saw beauty queen Vanessa Williams resign her Miss America crown after nude pictures of her were published in what magazine? A: Penthouse
Q: What southern state, home of the 17th President of the United States, and site of many Union victories, was the first to be readmitted to the Union on July 24, 1866? A: Tennessee
Q: Michele Obama is the current First Lady of the United States.  If John McCain had won, what would the first lady’s name be? A: Cindy
Q: As portrayed by Carl Weathers, and known as “The Master of Disaster”, “The King of Sting”, “The Dancing Destroyer”, or “The Count of Monte Fisto”, what was the name of the opponent Rocky faced for the Word Championship title in the first Rocky movie? A: Apollo Creed
Q: What is the large pack of bike riders in a race such as the Tour de France called? A: Peloton
Q: In the stupid celebrity names category, what Las Vegas based entertainer named his daughter Moxie CrimeFighter and his son Zolten? A: Penn Jillette
Q: Which golf club would be used to hit the ball the farthest? The 1 wood or the 5 wood? A: 1 wood
Q: What part of the body does meningitis affect? A: The brain
Q: The Scopes Monkey trial was completed on July 21, 1925 and John Scopes found guilty. How much was he fined? A: $100
Q: A longtime resident of Jellystone National Park, what is the name of Yogi Bears long suffering girlfriend? A: Cindy
Q: “And that’s the way it is” closed the broadcasts of what legendary anchorman, who passed away this week at age 92? A: Walter Cronkite
Q: How many different husbands has Elizabeth Taylor had? A: 7
Q: What was the name of the paranoid android in The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy? A: Marvin
Q: What is the name of the British comedian behind the characters Bruno and Borat? A: Sasha Baron Cohen
Q: What movie franchise included such installments as Back in Training, Citizens on Patrol, and City Under Siege? A: Police Academy
Q: What word, when said loud enough always makes you sound precocious, is defined as “what you say when you don’t know what to say”? A: Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
Q: "Where do you want to go today?" was the advertising slogan for what company in the 1990s? A: Microsoft
Q: John Diaz serves what role in His Asshat Greg Nickles government? A: Chief of Police
Q: Irene Adler, known simply as "the woman", is the only woman ever to have bested who, in a battle of wits? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What animal is also known as the ship of the desert? A: The camel
Q: Second only to Zeus, who is the Greek god of light and the sun; truth and prophecy; archery; medicine and healing; music, poetry, and the arts; and more? A: Apollo
Q: What is the longest exposed mountain range in the world? A: The Andes
Q: Johnny Cash sang, “I hear the train a comin’. It’s rolling round the bend. And I ain’t seen the sunshine since I don’t know when.” What was he singing about? A: Folsom Prison
Q: Because they can donate to anyone, people with what blood type are known as universal donors? A: O-
Q: What lake was formed by the construction of Hoover Dam? A: Lake Mead
Q: According to the traditional naval system, what time does the middle watch start? A: Midnight
Q: Which Rocky Top state was the first Southern state to be readmitted to the Union following the end of the civil war? A: Tennessee
Q: Benjamin Bunny, Mr. Jeremy Fisher, Jemima Puddle-Duck and Squirrel Nutkin were all characters created by what famed children's writer, born July 28, 1866? A: Beatrix Potter
Q: The movies Magnum Force, The Enforcer, Sudden Impact, and The Dead Pool, (plus an eponymous film), feature the exploits of what San Francisco police detective, played by none other than Clint Eastwood? A: Dirty Harry Callahan
Q: What does a mahout keep or ride? A: An elephant
Q: Who became the first Miss America to have to resign her crown on July 23, 1984, when nude photos of her were published in Penthouse? A: Vanessa Williams
Q: Name the 1978 movie from the plot summary: "At a 1962 College, Dean Vernon Wormer is determined to expel the entire Delta Tau Chi Fraternity, but those troublemakers have other plans for him." A: Animal House
Q: Sheet, ribbon, forked, and ball are all types of what? A: Lightning
Q: What part of an insect's body joins its head to its abdomen? A: Thorax
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries surrounding the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. A: Argentina, Brazil
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates into English as “my fault”, is taken to mean “my fault”? A: Mea Culpa
Q: What did Stevie Wonder just call to say in 1984? A: I love you
Q: In a 1794 poem by William Blake, which animal is described as burning bright? A: The Tyger
Q: Melvin Purvis and Samuel P. Cowley led the FBI team that confronted, and ultimately killed, what noted gangster outside the Biograph Theater in Chicago on July 22, 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: A Rhodes Scholarship allows a student to do postgraduate work at which school? A: University of Oxford
Q: Often with obscene or risque intent, what poetry uses a strict AABBA rhyme scheme? A: Limerick
Q: From the Latin plumbum, what element has an atomic weight of 82 and uses the symbol pb? A: Lead
Q: What national park, the first in the world, is home to the Roosevelt Arch, whose cornerstone was laid by the totally badassed president himself in 1903? A: Yellowstone
Q: What word derives from the Persian phrase, "Shah Mat" meaning the king is helpless? A: Checkmate
Q: Known as The Hawkeye State, what was the 29th state to join the Union on December 28, 1848? A: Iowa
Q: According to the popular WWII propaganda poster, when you ride alone, you what? A: ride with Hitler
Q: The father of the modern assembly line, what American industrialist, born on July 30, 1863, was a prolific inventor with 161 patents to his name? A: Henry Ford
Q: Hypnos and Somnus were, respectively, the Greek and Roman gods of what? A: Sleep
Q: Said to be "nigh uncatchable", what ship, originally called the Wicked Wench, is captained by Jack Sparrow every chance he gets? A: The Black Pearl
Q: Appearing on coins since 1864, and bills since its' official adoption, what became the official motto of the United States on July 30, 1956? A: In God We Trust
Q: With a motto of "For the Benefit of All", what executive branch agency had is founding on July 29, 1958, and has been responsible for programs as diverse as Mariner and New Horizon? A: NASA
Q: 1970 - Steven Tyler, Tom Hamilton, Joey Kramer, Joe Perry, Brad Whitford A: Aerosmith
Q: What war was ended by the Treaty of Panmunjom on July 27, 1953? A: The Korean War
Q: A widely debated topic in the halls of government these days, what is the current debt US ceiling, to the closest trillion dollars? A: 14
Q: What basic knitting stitch, the reverse of the knit, is formed by pulling a loop of the working yarn back through an existing stitch and then slipping that stitch off the needle? A: Purl
Q: In what country would you find the 4,700 square-mile Negev Desert? A: Israel
Q: What daily comic strip, created by Jim Toomey in 1991, features an overweight, lazy shark, his wife Megan, a sea turtle named Fillmore, and crab named Hawthorne, among others? A: Sherman's Lagoon
Q: Generally acknowledged as the father of role-playing games, Gary Gygax, along with Dave Arneson, was the mastermind behind what major game? A: Dungeons & Dragons
Q: In honey bees, the Queen and workers are all female. What name is given to the males? A: Drones
Q: What influential show, which paved the way for the future of cooking shows on TV, was hosted by Julia Child? A: The French Chef
Q: Named for a field piece, what is the name of the cocktail consisting of gin, champagne, lemon juice, and sugar? A: French 75
Q: What three titans of classical music are collectively known as the Three Bs? A: Bach, Beethoven, and Brahms
Q: What is the name of the company from which Wile E. Coyote gets all of his supplies in his vain attempts to capture the Road Runner? A: Acme
Q: What former first lady, following a family intervention for her alcohol consumption problem, founded an addiction clinic in Rancho Mirage, Ca in 1982? A: Betty Ford
Q: What unit of measure was once defined as the length of three grains of barley laid end to end? A: The inch
Q: What opium addicted English poet, who died on July 25, 1834, wrote such works as The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Christabel, and Kubla Kahn? A: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Q: What's missing: Australian Open, US Open, Wimbledon A: French Open
Q: Sara Jane Moore spent 32 years in prison for attempting to assassinate which president a mere 17 days after Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme tried? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which 1950's legends backing band was known as The Comets (or His Comets)? A: Bill Haley
Q: By what title is the vice president's wife commonly known? A: Second Lady of the United States
Q: Ricardo Montalban extolled the "soft Corinthian leather" in what model of car, produced from 1975 to 1983? A: Chrysler Cordoba
Q: July 27, 1789 saw George Washington sign the bill that created the first ever Federal Agency under the US constitution, the Department of Foreign Affairs. By what name is the department currently known? A: Department of State
Q: Anchored by the star Altair, what animal does the constellation Aquia represent? A: The Eagle
Q: What was the first country to get foreign aid from the United States, in 1812, following a devastating earthquake? A: Venezuela
Q: What hormone are Type I diabetics deficient in? A: Insulin
Q: Lepidopterists specialize in the study of what? A: Butterflies
Q: True or False - Between 1937 and 1945 Heinz produced a version of Alphabet Spaghetti especially for the German market that consisted solely of little pasta swastikas? A: False
Q: What are you if you are hirsute? A: Hairy
Q: In standard poker, what is the best of the following hands? A: Royal Flush
Q: Who is captain of the Black Pearl in Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean franchise? A: Captain Jack Sparrow
Q: The phrase “If red touches yellow, you’re a dead fellow; if red touches black, you’re alright, Jack” is used to distinguish between different types of what? A: Snakes
Q: In bowling, what bird's name is given to three successive strikes? A: Turkey
Q: Although never actually used in the books, the phrase "Elementary, my dear Watson." is commonly attributed to whom? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What is the name of the dog in the primer books Dick and Jane? A: Spot
Q: What car company, with a 10 year lifespan, was created from the purchase of American Motors by Chrysler in 1988? A: Eagle
Q: What avian inspired name is given to the act of quitting a habit or addition all at once? A: Cold Turkey
Q: What was the name give to the lunar module piloted by Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong that was the first to land on the moon? A: Eagle
Q: Which cartoon character was introduced on July 27, 1940 in the short "A Wild Hare"? A: Bugs Bunny
Q: What unit of measurement is equal to 3.26 light years? A: Parsec
Q: Which Lewis Carroll character was known for its enormous grin? A: Cheshire Cat
Q: Sounding more like an FAA employee, what did Jason Lee and Beth Reifsgraf name their son? A: Pilot Inspektor
Q: July 30, 1956 saw the adoption of what phrase as the official motto of the United States? A: In God We Trust
Q: Complete the film title of the 1959 Disney movie “Darby O’Gill and” who? A: The Little People
Q: When it absolutely, positively has to be there overnight? A: FedEx
Q: Serial killer David Berkowitz, who terrorized New York City from 1975 to 1976, was known in the press by what name? A: Son of Sam
Q: Founded 1250 years ago yesterday, the Iraqi city of Baghdad lies along which river? A: Tigris
Q: What tough band of dense, white, fibrous tissues connects a muscle with another body part? A: Tendon
Q: In what Hasbro game do teams of players try and guess specific words from one of 5 categories, based upon their partners drawing ability? A: Pictionary
Q: What is the name for the conical textile tube hung from a pole at airports used to indicate wind direction and relative speed? A: Windsock
Q: Skinny Jeans Tug-O-War, Vinyl Record Spinning, Cloth Tote Sack Race, and Make Your Own Ironic Mustache were all events held at what Olympics that took place in Berlin this last weekend? A: Hipster
Q: Who was the pirate leader in the novel Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson? A: Long John Silver
Q: On Aug 2, 1943, what PT boat was run down by the Japanese destroyer Amagiri, resulting in a 5 day evasion scenario for future president John F. Kennedy and his remaining crew? A: PT-109
Q: In the 1967 Disney movie The Jungle Book, who taught Mowgli The Bare Necessities? A: Baloo the bear
Q: What is the name of the membership only warehouse club owned and operated by Wal-Mart that ranks second to Costco in sales volume? A: Sam's Club
Q: Which character in the film Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory turned into a giant blueberry? A: Violet Beauregarde
Q: In what sport (also in the Olympics) do the participants use a foil or a sabre? A: Fencing
Q: In woodworking joints, what do you insert into your mortise? A: Tenon
Q: What famed and Nobel prize winning economist, born on July 31, 1912, wrote books such as Money Mischief: Episodes in Monetary History and The Tyranny of the Status Quo, and a series of Newsweek articles entitled “There’s No Such Thing as a Free Lunch”? A: Milton Friedman
Q: On Aug 3, 1492, who set sail from Palos de la Frontera, Spain, in a carrack and two caravels, on his way to Asia? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: Who has been the “head” elf in the Keebler Cookie Tree since 1970? A: Ernie
Q: Malt, wine, rice, and distilled are all types of what? A: Vinegar
Q: What can be a bandage company, a Doctor Who companion (the 7th Dr), and a hardware company? A: Ace
Q: "Video Killed the Radio Star" by the Buggles, was the first video aired on what cable channel on Aug 1, 1981? A: MTV
Q: From the Latin for "to become pale", what element with an atomic number of 4, uses the symbol Be? A: Beryllium
Q: The poker hand known as dead man's hand, as it was supposedly the cards held by Wild West legend Wild Bill Hickok, consists of 2 pairs of what cards? A: aces and eights
Q: According to the World Health Organization, what is the leading mosquito-borne disease in the world? A: Malaria
Q: August 6, 1945 saw the US bomber Enola Gay drop the first atomic bomb on what Japanese city? A: Hiroshima
Q: What is the name of the NFL team that calls Philadelphia home? A: Eagles
Q: Bing, King, and Rainier are all types of what? A: Cherries
Q: What SNL cast member is the host of this years Shark Week? A: Andy Samberg
Q: Begining the end of July, what war was known as The War to End All Wars? A: World War I
Q: Known as The Badger State or America's Dairyland, what was the 30th state to join the Union on May 29, 1848? A: Wisconsin
Q: On August 5, 1981, Ronald Reagan fired 11,359 striking members of what profession over their refusal to return to work? A: Air traffic controllers
Q: The FBI has recently announced that a "credible lead" has surfaced in the investigation of what famed hijacker, who commandeered a Northwest Orient flight in 1971? A: D. B. Cooper
Q: Multi-billionaire industrialist Tony Stark is the secret identity behind what Marvel super hero? A: Iron Man
Q: Anchored by the star Regulus, what animal does the constellation Leo represent? A: Lion
Q: What is the highest rank a boy scout can obtain, after earning a minimum of 21 badges and demonstrating Scout Spirit, service, and leadership? A: Eagle Scout
Q: What was it that Prometheus stole from Zeus and gave to mankind, angering the king of the gods to such a degree that he chained Prometheus to a rock, wherein an eagle would eat his liver each day, only to have it grow back at night? A: Fire
Q: According to the WWII propaganda poster, what might loose lips do? A: Sink ships
Q: What is the smallest denomination of bill available form our neighbors to the north, Canada? A: $5
Q: Tomorrow marks the birthday of our Commander in Chief, Barack Obama. How old will he be? A: 50
Q: In terms of sales, Lowe's is the world's second-largest hardware store chain, behind which retailer? A: The Home Depot
Q: What city does Spiderman spend his spare time protecting? A: New York City
Q: What type of internal combustion engine uses the heat of compression to initiate fuel ignition as opposed to requiring an external spark source? A: Diesel
Q: The Seattle Seahawks opened training camp on Saturday, starting a new season. In what year did they play their first ever game (a 27-20 preseason loss to San Francisco)? A: 1976
Q: A female cat is known as a molly or queen. What name is given to an intact male cat? A: Tom
Q: Today is the birthday of our Dear Leader, Barak Obama. How old is he? A: 49
Q: There is a move afoot by the governor of the great state of New Mexico to issue a pardon to old west legend William H. Bonney. By what name is he more commonly known? A: Billy the Kid
Q: Now displayed at the National Air and Space Museum, what was the name of the B-29, piloted by Colonel Paul Tibbets, that dropped the first atomic bomb? A: Enola Gay
Q: Born August 2, 1950, what Los Angeles County Superior Court judge, achieved fame by presiding over the trial of Charles H. Keating, and may have been noticed as the judge in charge of the OJ Simpson trial? A: Lance Ito
Q: Margaretha Geertruida Zelle MacLeod, born on August 7, 1876, was executed by a French firing squad for passing secrets to the Germans while performing as an exotic dancer under what stage name? A: Mata Hari
Q: What singer/songwriter's backup band is known as the Heartbreakers? A: Tom Petty
Q: On August 2 and 4, 1964, the US destroyers USS Maddox and USS Turner Joy (currently on display in Bremerton), reported coming under attack in teh Gulf of Tonkin, sparking America's entry into what? A: The War in Vietnam
Q: Hosted by The Late Late Shows Craig Ferguson, what week is it? A: Shark week
Q: Operation Desert Storm was the name given to the U.N. authorized attempt to oust Iraq from what country they illegally occupied? A: Kuwait
Q: ‘Half a league, half a league, Half a league onward, All in the valley of Death Rode the six hundred. ‘Forward, the Light Brigade! Charge for the guns’ he said: Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred.’ wrote what famed English poet, who was born on August 6, 1809? A: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Q: In what nursery rhyme does the monkey chase the weasel? A: Pop goes the weasel
Q: What company advertises "We bring good things to life."? A: General Electric
Q: What syndicated TV tabloid show, hosted by the former mayor of Cincinnati, focuses on troubled or dysfunctional families, and has been voted “the Worst TV Show Ever Made” by TV Guide? A: The Jerry Springer Show
Q: Which vehicle, according to the Insurance Institute of Highway Safety, is most likely to be stolen, a position of honor it's held for 6 of the last 7 years? A: Cadillac Escalade
Q: What cocktail, named for a Scottish folk hero, consists of Scotch, Sweet vermouth, with a dash of Angostura bitters? A: Rob Roy
Q: According to English folklore, and William Shakespeare in A Midsummer Night's Dream, what is the elf called Robin Goodfellow better known as? A: Puck
Q: Public Law 62-5, which was passed on August 8, 1911 set the membership of the House of Representatives to what number? A: 435
Q: In which U.S. state is Grand Teton National Park located? A: Wyoming
Q: What is the name of the evil puppeteer in the 1940s Disney movie Pinocchio A: Stromboli
Q: Of the three types of rock, lava is falls under which type? A: Igneous
Q: What American actress became Princess of Monaco following her 1956 wedding to Prince Rainier? A: Grace Kelly
Q: Currently on display at the Smithsonian's National Air and Space museum, what type of US bomber is the Enola Gay, the plane that dropped the first atomic bomb? A: Boeing B-29
Q: What product is made at a gristmill? A: Flour
Q: A follow up consequence of being banned from federal service for life, on August 5, 1981, President Ronald Reagan fired 11,345 members of what federal group were fired for illegally calling for a strike? A: Air Traffic Controllers
Q: What was the name of the NASA rover that touched down on the surface of Mars Sunday night? A: Curiosity
Q: Which property management group, the largest real estate investment group in the US, owns and operates the Northgate Mall? A: Simon Property Group
Q: What former basketball player and shoe salesman lends his signature to every pair of Converse All-Star sneakers? A: Chuck Taylor
Q: And how much of your hard earned money is protected by the FDIC? A: $250,000
Q: In geology, what is the process by which organic material is turned to stone by naturally impregnating it with silica or iron and sulfur? A: Petrification
Q: August 9th is the anniversary of the resignation of one Richard Milhous Nixon from the office of the President of the United States of America. In what year did this happen? A: 1974
Q: On August 9, 1944, The United States Forest Service and the Wartime Advertising Council release posters featuring what iconic hat wearing, shovel carrying character for the first time? A: Smokey the Bear
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries that share a physical border with the Republic of El Salvador. A: Guatemala and Honduras
Q: What can be a brand of shoe polish, a fruit, or a bird? A: Kiwi
Q: Air Jordan, first introduced in 1985, are a brand of shoes made by what shoe company? A: Nike
Q: Who was the mythical Greek king of Thebes who killed his father so he could marry his mother? A: Oedipus
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as "by the fact itself", is taken to mean that a certain phenomenon is a direct consequence, a resultant effect, of the action in question? A: Ipso facto
Q: “From the Halls of Montezuma, To the shores of Tripoli; We fight our country’s battles” promises which branch of the US military? A: Marines
Q: What serial killer, who buried the remains of 26 of his victims in his Chicago crawl space, was known as the "Killer Clown"? A: John Wayne Gacy
Q: Bengal, Sumatran, and Siberian are all types of what? A: Tigers
Q: In the Peanuts comic strip, which of Snoopy's brothers wears a fedora and lives in the California desert? A: Spike
Q: Construction began on 13 Aug 1961 on an 87 mile long barrier dividing what city? A: Berlin
Q: On August 12, 1908, the first of over 15 million of what landmark automobile rolled off the assembly line? A: Model T Ford
Q: Known as the Golden State, what was the 31st state to join the Union on Sept. 9, 1850? A: California
Q: What is the DVD region code for the US? A: 1
Q: You dial 911 for emergency services and 411 for information (now taken over by 555-1212). What is the FCC mandated call before you dig number? A: 811
Q: Which of the seven is the smallest (in area) continent? A: Australia
Q: Box-end, monkey, and crescent are all types of what? A: Wrenches
Q: Steinway & Sons has been manufacturing what type of musical instrument for over 150 years? A: Pianos
Q: August 11, 1988 is generally accepted as the creation date of what terrorist organization, whose name translates as "the base"? A: Al Qaeda
Q: What revolutionary war hero, leader of the Green Mountain Boys, lends his name to a furniture company? A: Ethan Allen
Q: Which US government department oversees the US Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as Food Stamps? A: USDA
Q: Who’s resignation speech included the lines “Sometimes I have succeeded and sometimes I have failed, but always I have taken heart from what Theodore Roosevelt once said about the man in the arena, “whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs and comes short again and again because there is not effort without error and shortcoming, but who does actually strive to do the deed, who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumphs of high achievements and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly.”” A: Richard Nixon
Q: What is the name of the fault line that runs for about 800 miles in California? A: San Andreas Fault
Q: What can be a rock band, a card game, and an organ? A: Heart
Q: The B-29 Bockscar dropped the second atomic bomb on what Japanese city on August 9, 1945? A: Nagasaki
Q: In which sport did teams first compete for the America's Cup today in August, 1851? A: Yachting
Q: August 12, 1925 saw the birth of twins Norris and Ross McWhirter, who together compiled was famous set of books, originally conceived to help settle a bar bet? A: Guinness World Records
Q: August 8, 1908 saw which Wright brother, the one who didn't get to pilot the flyer the previous December at Kitty Hawk, make his first public flight in Le Mans, France? A: Wilbur
Q: August 14, 2000 saw the introduction of what kids animated character, known for a monkey named Boots, a fox named Swiper, and her frequent use of Spanish? A: Dora the Explorer
Q: What famed nurse, dubbed "The Lady with the Lamp", revolutionized nursing from the lessons she learned tending wounded soldiers during the Crimean War? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: November 11, 1889 saw the great state of Washington formed from what territory? A: Washington Territory
Q: What company exhorts “don’t leave home without it”? A: American Express
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who lost her sheep and couldn't find them? A: Little Bo Peep
Q: Paraskevidekatriaphobia or friggatriskaidekaphobia is the fear of what? A: Friday the 13th
Q: How many musicians make up a nonet? A: 9
Q: Which celebrity was killed when their vehicle was involved in a collision when a car driven by Donald Turnupseed turned in front of their vehicle, totaling their Porsche? A: James Dean
Q: On August 9, 1944, The United States Forest Service and the Wartime Advertising Council release posters featuring what iconic character for the first time? A: Smokey the Bear
Q: August 9th marks the anniversary of the resignation of Richard M. Nixon as US President. In what year did it happen? A: 1974
Q: August 12, 1925 saw the birth of twins Ross and Norris McWhirter, who created what book, which people will go to extreme lengths to get into? A: Guinness Book of World Records
Q: Sharing a name with the first successful model designed by Robert Fulton in 1800, what was the name of the submarine captained by Prince Armitage Ranjit Dakkar, or Captain Nemo, in Jules Verne's books 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and The Mysterious Island? A: Nautilus
Q: What legendary porn star was arrest, tried and acquitted as an accomplice in the so-called Wonderland Murders, immortalized in the 2003 Val Kilmer vehicle Wonderland? A: John Holmes
Q: Who's missing: Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis, Jr., Peter Lawford and Joey Bishop A: Dean Martin
Q: Which now defunct company operated the luxury liner Titanic? A: White Star
Q: Named for the developer of the steel plow, what Moline, Il. company is the world's largest producer of agricultural machinery in the world? A: John Deere
Q: After a Compromise, what state was admitted to the union as the 24th, on August 10, 1821? A: Missouri
Q: How many days in a fortnight? A: 14
Q: Epitomized by Vernon Wormer, what name is given to individuals that run universities or colleges? A: Dean
Q: Name the book and the author:' These two very old people are the father and mother of Mr. Bucket. Their names are Grandpa Joe and Grandma Josephine.' A: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory by Roald Dahl
Q: Hiroshima was the first city to feel the effects of an atomic bomb. What Japanese city was next to be visited on Aug 9, 1945? A: Nagasaki
Q: If Lady is a pedigree American Cocker Spaniel, what is the name of the mongrel? A: Tramp
Q: August 16, 1977 saw the passing of what singing legend, found on the floor of his bathroom? A: Elvis Presley
Q: What is the name of the seismic fault line that runs for about 800 miles in California? A: San Andreas Fault
Q: What airline, the world’s largest, uses Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson Airport as its’ US hub? A: Delta
Q: What is the subject of the latest PBS documentary by Ken Burns, which will premiere on public television later this month? A: The National Parks
Q: Suzette Charles of New Jersey became Miss America 1984 because of the resignation of the actual winner. Whom did she replace? A: Vanessa Williams
Q: What now American tourist attraction that received its first visitor on August 11, 1934, was originally named by its’ Spanish discoverer as ‘The Island of the Pelicans’? A: Alcatraz
Q: What was the pseudonym of the Far Eastern despot Saloth Sar? A: Pol Pot
Q: What official NFL injury report term means that a player has a 50% chance of playing? A: Questionable
Q: August 10th, 1846, saw the chartering of which major and most popular US museum? A: Smithsonian Institute
Q: May 10, 1869 Promontory Summit, Utah, saw the driving of what historic object, still celebrated on the back of the Utah state quarter? A: Golden Spike
Q: Colonel Tom Parker, the Colonel being an honorary title only, made his mark managing what entertainer? A: Elvis Presley
Q: August 15th, 1969 saw the opening of 3 day music festival on Max Yasgurs farm that became known as Woodstock. In what state did the festival take place? A: New York
Q: For a point each, name the vaudeville and movie stars known as the Marx brothers A: Chico, Harpo, Groucho, Gummo, and Zeppo
Q: On August 10, 1821, this state, known as the Show Me State, was admitted to the Union as #24? A: Missouri
Q: Ratified on January 29, 1919, the 18th amendment to the US Constitution regulates the sale of what? A: Alcohol
Q: In 1876, Brigadier General Henry Martyn Robert, he of San Juan Island fortifications during the Pig War fame, published what classic tome, still published today? A: Roberts Rules of Order
Q: What name is given to the person authorized to vote on behalf of someone else? A: Proxy
Q: According to the Aesop fable, what food could the fox not reach, which he then declared to be unpalatable? A: Grapes
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as "in good faith", is taken to mean sincere, honest intention or belief, or authentic and true? A: Bona fide
Q: Tuesday marked the 48th birthday of what noted former Mariner, who has been an All-Star, a Gold Glove award winner, and a member of the Mariners Hall of Fame, and is nicknamed Bone? A: Jay Buhner
Q: What subatomic particle has no mass, no electric charge, and a spin of 1? A: Photon
Q: The highest scoring tiles, what two letters are worth 10 points each in a game of Scrabble? A: Q and Z
Q: Winning 5 Emmys and one Edward R. Murrow award, long time local news anchor Kathi Goertzen, who died this week of brain tumors, worked for what TV station? A: Komo
Q: What cereal mascot’s motto is “They’re grrrreat!”? A: Tony the Tiger
Q: What 80’s New Wave band thought “We Had the Beat” before then went on “Vacation”, although “Our Lips are Sealed”, so you may not know about being “Head Over Heals”? A: The Go-Gos
Q: The town of Bethel, NY was treated to the start of “An Aquarian Exposition: 3 Days of Peace & Music”, when what started on August 15, 1969? A: Woodstock
Q: What is the main food ingredient of a frittata? A: Eggs
Q: With a history stretching back thousands of years, the age old art of trimming bushes and shrubs into ornamental shapes is called what? A: Topiary
Q: What is the name for the active meteor shower that takes place each year between late July and late August? A: Perseid
Q: What does the child take, according to the nursery rhyme The Farmer in the Dell? A: A Nurse
Q: What is the more common name for the US Navy's aerial demonstration team? A: The Blue Angels
Q: What can be a tree, a fictional TV character, and a defective car? A: Lemon
Q: According to the tv and radio ads, "Uh oh, better get" who? A: Maaco
Q: From the French for Little Shoulder, what is the name for the ornamental shoulder piece or decoration used as insignia of rank by armed forces and other organizations? A: Epaulette
Q: According to the proverb, it's no use crying over what? A: Spilt Milk
Q: The sports teams from Auburn University, LSU, Princeton University, and University of Missouri all use the same name. Is it: A: Tigers
Q: Name the 1980 movie from the plot summary: “An emotionally self-destructive boxer’s journey through life, as the violence and temper that leads him to the top in the ring, destroys his life outside it.” A: Raging Bull
Q: Roy Horn, of Siegfried and Roy fame, had his career cut short in 2003 when he was attacked by what? A: Tiger
Q: The professional wrestling organization formerly known as the WWF is now known by what set of initials? A: WWE
Q: What is the SI unit of measurement for capacitance (defined as the ability of a body to store an electrical charge)? A: Farad
Q: Spike, Dig, Set, and Block are found in which Olympic sport? A: Volleyball
Q: Although actually born in what was then the semi-autonomous region known as The State of Franklin, whom did Fess Parker claim was born on a mountaintop in Tennessee? A: Davy Crockett
Q: The US led all countries in the top two medal categories at this years Olympics. How many gold medals did they earn? A: 46
Q: What is the general legal term for “unlawful taking and carrying away of another’s property”? A: Larceny
Q: The Recording Industry Association of America awards what certification for an album that sells 500,000 copies? A: Gold
Q: Known as North Star State, among several others, what was the 32nd state to join the Union on May 11, 1858? A: Minnesota
Q: August 14, 1951 saw the death of what newspaper magnate, whose life was the basis for the movie Citizen Kane? A: William Randolph Hearst
Q: Characterized by dark, often reflective lenses having an area two or three times the area of the eye socket, and metal frames with bayonet earpieces, aviator sunglasses are sold by what company? A: Ray-Ban
Q: If a medical condition is pulmonary, what part of the body does it affect? A: Lungs
Q: Consisting of rotors, a lampboard, a keyboard, and a plugboard, what is the name of the electro-mechanical cipher machine deployed by the Germans during WWII? A: Enigma
Q: What American folk hero was “Born on a mountain top in Tennessee, Greenest state in the land of the free. Raised in the woods so’s he knew every tree, Killed him a bear when he was only three.” A: Davy Crockett
Q: As part of a purification ritual, what do sumo wrestlers traditionally throw into the ring prior to a bout? A: Salt
Q: What noted comic book writer and former head of Marvel Comics, co-created such institutions as Spider-Man, the Fantastic Four, the X-Men, and even had an appearance on The Simpsons? A: Stan Lee
Q: What famed science fiction writer, who celebrates an august birthday, is perhaps best known for his dystopian novel Fahrenheit 451 and The Martian Chronicles? A: Ray Bradbury
Q: Which herb is usually used as the main ingredient in traditional pesto? A: Basil
Q: Introduced in the episode The Cage, who was the original captain of the USS Enterprise in the Star Trek world? A: Christopher Pike
Q: What hair style, often ridiculed as lowbrow and unappealing, was famously described as "business in the front party in the back"? A: Mullet
Q: An average shoe consists of the upper, tongue, heel, and what other part that gets walked on? A: Sole
Q: In math, what is defined as a portion of a line which starts at a point and goes off in a particular direction to infinity? A: Ray
Q: Founded in 1777, what is paired with half a pint of Guinness to make a traditional black and tan? A: Bass Ale
Q: With an atomic number of 79, what elements symbol Au comes from the Latin aurum? A: Gold
Q: Invented by General Foods in 1957, what powdered fruit-flavored breakfast drink was included in the Mercury and Gemini space flights, forever linking it with the space program? A: Tang
Q: What misanthropic hoarder Sesame Street character calls a garbage can home? A: Oscar the Grouch
Q: In the Brothers Grimm fairy tale Rumpelstiltskin, what did the title creature promise to do for the miller's daughter, in exchange for her first born? A: Spin straw into gold
Q: Anchored by the star Aldebaran, the constellation Taurus represents what animal? A: The Bull
Q: What are persons who lack any sort of magical ability and are not born into the magical world called in the Harry Potter universe? A: Muggles
Q: What can be a soft drink, a food portion, or backspin? A: Slice
Q: A butte is a type of what geologic feature? A: Hill
Q: What name is given to the original land mass from which the modern continents have developed? A: Pangaea
Q: What serial killer dubbed himself the “Son of Sam”? A: David Berkowitz
Q: Sauerkraut, translated from the German as "sour herb", is made from what vegetable? A: Cabbage
Q: Born in Weehawken, N.J. on August 19, 1947, who is the current music director of the Seattle Symphony? A: Gerard Schwarz
Q: What part of a kola tree is used to flavor soft drinks? A: Nut
Q: August 19, 1942 saw the birth of the 42nd President of the US. Who is it? A: Bill Clinton
Q: Who's missing: Dorothy, Tin Woodman, Scarecrow and the Cowardly Lion? A: Toto
Q: What branch of the US Armed Forces, founded in 1790, trains its officers at its academy in New London, Ct? A: U.S. Coast Guard
Q: Who is the only American Idol judge that has been with the series since its 2002 inception? A: Randy Jackson
Q: What singer was found unresponsive on his bathroom floor on August 16, 1977, before being declared dead at 3:30 that afternoon? A: Elvis Presley
Q: With a 2008 Census population estimate of 173,000 residents, what is the capital of Mississippi? A: Jackson
Q: What was the last name of “movie star” Ginger on TV’s Gilligan’s Island? A: Grant
Q: Based in Huntington, WV, what university, which lost a large portion of its football team in a 1970 airplane crash, calls its sports team the "Thundering Herd"? A: Marshall
Q: Also known as the Genius Award, what is the name of the fellowship awarded annually to 20 to 40 US citizens, of any age and working in any field, who "show exceptional merit and promise for continued and enhanced creative work"? A: MacArthur Fellows Program
Q: What type of fence, often painted white, is characterized as short with a tapered or pointed top on evenly spaced vertical boards? A: Picket
Q: August 21, 1959 saw which state join the Union as the 50th? A: Hawaii
Q: Held at Max Yasgur’s 600 acre diary farm, what event, which opened on Aug 15, 1969, was billed as “An Aquarian Exposition: 3 Days of Peace & Music”? A: Woodstock
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who “agreed to have a battle” because someone “spoiled his nice new rattle”? A: Tweedledum and Tweedledee
Q: August 21, 1911, saw the theft of the painting known as La Gioconda from the Louvre. By what name is the painting more commonly known? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Demographics is the study of what? A: Human population
Q: The Mothers of Invention backed up eccentric singer? A: Frank Zappa
Q: In physics, what unit of force is defined as the amount of force required to accelerate a mass of one kilogram at a rate of one meter per second per second? A: Newton
Q: During what war did Francis Scott Key write "The Star-Spangled Banner," which became the national anthem? A: 1812
Q: NASA launched the Viking 1 probe on August 20, 1975. To what planet was the spacecraft headed? A: Mars
Q: August 17 saw the opening of what Seattle institution, and major tourist attraction, in continuous operation since 1903? A: Pike Place Market
Q: Pioneer of party-plan marketing, Earl Tupper invented what during his stay at DuPont? A: Tupperware
Q: Name the book and the author: 'It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.' A: Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen
Q: 'So easy a caveman could do it' was an advertising slogan for what company? A: Geico
Q: Standing for Time and Relative Dimensions in Space, who travels the universe in a spaceship disguised as a police box known as The Tardis? A: Doctor Who
Q: What was the name of the PDA produced by Apple, most famous for its handwriting recognition software turning Random House into Condom Nose during a major presentation? A: Newton
Q: The title character of what TV series regularly ran a newspaper ad that read: "Got a problem, need help, odds against you?" A: The Equalizer
Q: What are the small indentations on a golf ball called? A: Dimples
Q: During World War II, U.S. soldiers used the first commercial aerosol cans to hold what? A: Insecticide
Q: The Earth is approximately how many miles away from the Sun? A: 93 million
Q: Which insect shorted out an early supercomputer and inspired the term "computer bug"? A: Moth
Q: In the children's book series, where is Paddington Bear originally from? A: Peru
Q: What letter must appear at the beginning of the registration number of all non-military aircraft in the U.S.? A: N
Q: Who did artist Grant Wood use as the model for the farmer in his classic painting American Gothic? A: His dentist
Q: Name the year: NAFTA is ratified, Nancy Kerrigan gets clubbed, Kurt Cobain eats his shotgun, OJ Simpson offs his ex wife and her friend. A: 1994
Q: What “church” has made millions selling its members “electro psychometer” like detectors? A: Scientologists
Q: With a metropolotian population of almost 19 million people, what is the most populous city in South America? A: Sao Paulo, Brazil
Q: Talc is the softest mineral listed on the Mohs scale of hardness. It is given a value of 1. Diamond is the hardest. What number is it given? A: 10
Q: What do you call a ring-shaped coral island surrounding a central lagoon? A: Atoll
Q: Ratified on the 18th of August, 1920, the 19th amendment to the US constitution states: The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of what? A: Sex
Q: At what city did Bugs Bunny always belatedly realize, I knew I shoulda taken that left turn at? A: Albuquerque
Q: What does the internet acronym FTFY mean? A: Fixed that for you
Q: Commander of the Coalition forces during the First Gulf War, which general had the nickname Stormin' Norman? A: H. Norman Schwarzkopf
Q: Jimmy Choo, Manolo Blahnik, and Christian Louboutin are all makers of what? A: Women's shoes
Q: Connect Four, Battleship, Twister, Yahtzee, Hungry Hungry Hippos, and The Game of Life are all games produced by what US game company? A: Milton Bradley
Q: True or false: an adult centipede has exactly 100 legs? A: False
Q: Shamu, caught in 1965, was what type of animal? A: Orca
Q: Those poor “Three Blind Mice” of nursery rhyme fame had their tails cut off by the farmer’s wife using what sharp instrument? A: A carving knife
Q: August 21st was the anniversary of Hawaii joining the union, the last state to do so, in what year? A: 1959
Q: 5W-20, 10W-30, and 20W-20 are common weights of what commodity? A: Motor Oil
Q: Jiminy Jillickers! Ultimately played by Milhouse, what is the name of Radioactive Man's sidekick? A: Fallout Boy
Q: On Aug 23, 1939, Germany signed a non-aggression pact with what other country, paving the way for the Nazi invasion of Poland? A: USSR
Q: During WWI, manufacturers of what product relabeled themselves as Liberty Cabbage to avoid anti-German sentiments? A: Sauerkraut
Q: On August 21, 1911, Italian patriot Vincenzo Peruggia stolen what "moderately famous" painting from the Louvre, which was not recovered for 2 years? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Having overcome her own addiction to alcohol and prescription medicine, what former first lady opened a treatment center for chemical dependency in Rancho Mirage, CA? A: Betty Ford
Q: Killing thousands, the cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum were buried on Aug 24, 79AD when what volcano erupted? A: Vesuvius
Q: What salad dressing (containing mayonnaise, anchovies, chives and sour cream) was named after a 1921 play? A: Green Goddess
Q: What can be a musical instrument, a type of brake, and a type of cylindrical container? A: Drum
Q: Known for his love of Ludwig van, what is the name of the piano playing character in the Peanuts comic strip? A: Schroeder
Q: Name the 1995 movie from the IMDB plot summary: "A boat has been destroyed, criminals are dead, and the key to this mystery lies with the only survivor and his twisted, convoluted story beginning with five career crooks in a seemingly random police lineup."? A: The Usual Suspects
Q: If I'm on vehicles named Ganges Gertie, Irrawaddy Irma, Orinoco Ida, or Zambesi Zelda, what Disney World Magic Kingdom attraction am I on? A: Jungle Cruise
Q: After the invasion of Poland, which was the next country to be invaded by the Germans in World War II? A: Denmark
Q: True or False: A duck’s quack doesn’t echo? A: False
Q: What can be a defunct Ford model, an NBA player, and a TV western? A: Maverick
Q: The birth, at Baekdu Mountain, of what Asian despot was foretold by a swallow, and heralded by the appearance of a double rainbow over the mountain and a new star in the heavens? A: Kim Jong-Il
Q: What are the names of Popeye's nephews? A: Pipeye, Pupeye, Poopeye, Peepeye
Q: Appaloosa, Tennessee Walking, and Arabian are all types of what? A: Horses
Q: What country has the U.S. had a trade embargo on since 1962? A: Cuba
Q: On TV, “Ace” Duff Goldman and “Boss” Buddy Valastro both work in what medium? A: Cake
Q: Which is the only planet in the solar system named after a Greek god? A: Uranus
Q: What does a xenophobe fear? A: Foreigners
Q: August 29, 1958 saw the birth of what "moderately famous" pop star, who married Lisa Marie Presley in 1994, Deborah Jeanne Rowe in 1996, and had a child with a yet unnamed surrogate mother in 2002? A: Michael Jackson
Q: What category 3 hurricane devastated the east coast last week, resulting in at least 54 deaths? A: Irene
Q: Which state grows more oranges and grapefruits than any other state in the U.S.? A: Florida
Q: Known as the Beaver State, what was the 33rd state to join the Union on Feb 14, 1859? A: Oregon
Q: August 28, 1898 saw the introduction of what popular soft drink, originally called Brad's Drink, named after it's inventor, New Bern, NC pharmacist Caleb Bradham? A: Pepsi-Cola
Q: The PayDay candy bar is composed of peanuts and what other confection? A: Caramel
Q: Who was the last vice president to be elected president? A: George H. W. Bush
Q: In the Transformer Universe, who is the leader of the Decipticons? A: Megatron
Q: Which side makes the first move in a game of chess? A: White
Q: In the early 1990s, Nike ran a series of Bo Knows TV commercial featuring what athlete, the first in the modern era to play both professional football and baseball in the same year, trying his hand at various sports, including basketball (with Michael Jordan) and Tennis (with John McEnroe)? A: Bo Jackson
Q: Who was Captain Hooks first mate in Peter Pan? A: Mr. Smee
Q: Anchored by the star Sirius, what animal does the constellation Canis Major represent? A: A dog
Q: The first of the "cardio-boxing" fitness programs to gain commercial success, what was the name of the aeroboic exercise routine created by Billy Blanks? A: Tae Bo
Q: Born on Sept 1, 1950, what is the surname of TV's Doctor Phil, who originally made his fame by appearing on the Oprah Winfrey Show? A: McGraw
Q: Sept 4, 1950 saw the introduction of the comic strip Beetle Bailey. On what fictional military installation does the comic strip take place? A: Camp Swampy
Q: Standing for “the Memphis Group”, the M.G.’s back up what R&B singing legend? A: Booker T. Jones
Q: Available in small quantities in tonic water, quinine, which comes from the bark of the cinchona [sin-koh-nuh] tree, was first used to treat what tropical disease? A: Malaria
Q: In what outdoor sport, sanctioned by the NHPA, scores 3 points for a ringer, 2 for a leaner, and the closet scores a point? A: Horseshoes
Q: Are Zebras black with white stripes? Or white with black stripes? A: Black with white stripes
Q: Born on August 31, 12 AD, Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, emperor of Rome from 37 AD to 41AD and later to be played Malcolm McDowell, was commonly known as whom? A: Caligula
Q: Officially known as the Ryan NYP, with what name did Charles Lindberg bestow the aircraft that he soloed across the Atlantic? A: Spirit of St. Louis
Q: Once known as book rate, what USPS service is reserved for printed materials, cds, and video tapes? A: Media Mail
Q: The longest floating bridge in the world, the Evergreen Point Floating Bridge is officially named after what former Washington governor? A: Albert D. Rosellini
Q: September 1, 1914 saw the last example of what species, which existed in enormous migratory flocks, sometimes containing more than two billion birds that could stretch one mile wide and 300 miles long, when Martha died at the Cincinnati Zoo? A: Passenger Pigeon
Q: September 1, 1939 saw the start of World War II when Germany invaded what country? A: Poland
Q: According to the proverb, two heads are what? A: better than one
Q: What's missing: Denial, Anger, Depression, Acceptance A: Bargaining
Q: During the 1960, what Emeryville, California Hula-hoop company introduced the slip 'n slide, the super ball, and a do-it-yourself bomb shelter? A: Wham-O
Q: On Sept 2, 1945, the Instrument of Surrender was signed by the Japanese Foreign Minister Mamoru Shigemitsu, officially ending World War II, aboard what US battleship moored in Tokyo Bay? A: USS Missouri
Q: In the horrible names that celebrities saddle their kids with category, after naming his daughters Sonnet, True, and Autumn, with what wet name did Forrest Whitaker tab his only son? A: Ocean
Q: Tuesday saw the 70th anniversary of the start of WWII when Germany invaded what country? A: Poland
Q: In literature, who is John Clayton III, son of Lord and Lady Greystroke? A: Tarzan
Q: Ottawa is the national capitol of Canada. In what province is Ottawa located? A: Ontario
Q: What product was advertised with the slogan “Does she…or doesn’t she?” A: Clairol
Q: Ben and Jerry's recently announced that they were changing the name of their Chubby Hubby ice cream to what new name for the month of September? A: Hubby Hubby
Q: On Sept 4, 1998, Google is founded by fellow students Sergey Brin and Larry Page. At what university were they classmates? A: Stanford
Q: Who lives in a pineapple under the sea? A: Spongebob Squarepants
Q: According to the fairy tale Cinderella, what vegetable gets turned into the carriage? A: A pumpkin
Q: In September 1893, which country became the first in the world to give women the right to vote? A: New Zealand
Q: The 21st amendment to the US constitution, a happy occasion if ever there was one, officially repeals what previous constitutional amendment? A: The 18th
Q: Of Beavis and Butt-head, which one wore the AC/DC t-shirt? A: Butt-head
Q: Name the book and the author: 'We were somewhere around Barstow on the edge of the desert when the drugs began to take hold.' A: Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas by Hunter S. Thompson
Q: What is the name of the owl who told us “Give a hoot – don’t pollute” in a series of Public Service Announcements? A: Woodsy
Q: What relationship was shared by actors Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenegger in their 1988 film, directed by Ivan Reitman? A: Twins
Q: Prized by collectors, the “Inverted Jenny” is a famous what? A: Postage Stamp
Q: The Sleeper, Around the World, and Walking the Dog are tricks performed with what? A: A Yo-yo
Q: What is the name of Snoopy's bird friend in the Peanuts comic strip? A: Woodstock
Q: Characterized by a numbness at the back of the neck and arms, Chinese restaurant syndrome is commonly attributed to what food additive? A: MSG
Q: Castillo Del Morro is the recreated Spanish fort that stands over top of what Disney World ride? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: Genoa, Jib, and Spinnaker are all types of what? A: Sails
Q: Although he's still holed up at an embassy in London, Wikileaks founder Julian Assange was recently granted asylum in what country? A: Ecuador
Q: Located in Venezuela, what is the highest, uninterrupted waterfall in the world? A: Angel Falls
Q: How many horizontal lines are used in a musical stave (or staff)? A: 5
Q: Dewey Decimal Classification, Universal Decimal Classification and Library of Congress Classification are three methods of coding and organizing what? A: Library materials
Q: The 2012 Democratic National Convention kicked off this week in what US city? A: Charlotte, NC
Q: What Portuguese explorer is credited as being the first to circumnavigate the world, when his expedition returned to Spain on Sept. 6, 1522 (although he died a year and a half earlier)? A: Ferdinand Magellan
Q: Known as an experiment in community, art, radical self-expression, and radical self-reliance, the Burning Man festival was held this year in the Black Rock Desert-High Rock Canyon Emigrant Trails National Conservation Area in what US state? A: Nevada
Q: What do you usually find in a golf courses' bunker? A: Sand
Q: What can be a young mammal, a human muscle, and a chunk of sea ice? A: Calf
Q: Name the 1995 movie from the plot summary: "Two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his modus operandi." A: Seven
Q: What type of animal is a skink? A: Lizard
Q: Love him or not, Paul Ryan has been officially nominated as the Republican Vice Presidential candidate. What state is he a Representative for? A: Wisconsin
Q: What “magician”, born Christopher Nicholas Sarantakos, is the “genius” behind the Mindfreak tv show and the Believe Las Vegas show? A: Criss Angel
Q: What are the two signs of the Zodiac that cover the month of September? A: Virgo and Libra
Q: Before being surpassed by Michael Phelps, which American swimmer held the records for most gold medals won during a single Olympics when he won 7 (all world records) in 1972? A: Mark Spitz
Q: According to Greek mythology, what was the only virtue that remained in Pandora's Box after she opened it? A: Hope
Q: Sept 4, 1950 saw the introduction of what daily comic strip featuring a goldbricking US Army private, stationed at Campy Swampy, who is always at odds with Sgt Snorkel? A: Beetle Bailey
Q: The piece of cartilage which divides the nose into two separate chambers is called what? A: Septum
Q: On September 8, 1974, Gerald Ford issued Proclamation 4311 granting a pardon, for crimes that may have been committed, to whom? A: Richard M. Nixon
Q: Letter, Legal, ledger, and Tabloid are all types of what? A: Paper sizes
Q: What comedy duo made their feature film debut in 1978's Up in Smoke? A: Cheech & Chong
Q: What two dogs are cross bred to produce the Schnoodle? A: Schnauzer and a poodle
Q: Known as The Sunflower State, what was the 34th state to join the Union on January 29, 1861? A: Kansas
Q: Sept 5, 1774 saw the first sitting of what important body, which met in Philadelphia's Carpenter's Hall? A: First Continental Congress
Q: What SNL self-help parody, portrayed by Al Franken, is known for phrases such as “I’m good enough, I’m smart enough, and doggone it, people like me.” and “I learned what love is from my parents. Which is that you find that one-special person who was placed on the planet just for you, and then you put them through forty years of living hell.”? A: Stuart Smalley
Q: Anchored by the star Antares, the constellation Scorpius represents what animal? A: Scorpion
Q: For a point each, name the countries that share a physical border with the Kingdom of Lesotho A: South Africa
Q: Introduced by the Raytheon Corporation in 1947, what ubiquitous modern day convenience was originally sold under the name Radarange, based on its use of the magnetron, a major component of radar systems? A: Microwave Oven
Q: In boxing, there are 4 primary punches. For a point each, name them. A: jab, cross, hook, and uppercut
Q: Sept 7, 1963 saw the opening of what professional Hall of Fame, when 17 individuals, including “Slinging” Sammy Baugh, Harold “Red” Grange, George Halas, Don Hutson, Earl “Curly” Lambeau, and Bronco Nagurski were inaugurated? A: Pro Football
Q: With an atomic number of 86, what element, the heaviest of the noble gasses, uses the symbol Rn? A: Radon
Q: This year was the first in its 45 year history that Jerry Lewis did not host the annual labor day telethon, which raises money for which charity (2.45 billion to date)? A: Muscular Dystrophy Association
Q: What's missing: Magnum Force, The Enforcer, Sudden Impact, and The Dead Pool? A: Dirty Harry
Q: In golf, what is the opposite of a slice (a shot that curves toward the side of the swing)? A: A hook
Q: Two letters in American Sign Language require movement. Name either one. A: J and Z
Q: Especially devastating in Seattle, what fast food chain was at the center of an E. Coli outbreak in 1993? A: Jack in the Box
Q: The Pro Football Hall of Fame opened its doors on Sept 7, 1963, in what Midwestern city? A: Canton, OH
Q: “There’s a sucker born every minute” is a phrase erroneously attributed to what famous showman? A: PT Barnum
Q: On September 7, 1927, what American inventor demonstrated the world's first working television system with electronic scanning of both the pickup and display devices? A: Philo T. Farnsworth
Q: Sept 10, 1963 saw the birth of what former Mariner, and Geico pitch man, known as The Big Unit? A: Randy Johnson
Q: 44 years ago today, nerds everywhere found a new calling in life when what TV series debuted with the episode named “”The Man Trap””? A: Star Trek
Q: A poor workman always blames his what? A: tools
Q: What fictional detective is featured in the novel/movie "The Hound of the Baskervilles"? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: Whose labors include such tasks as slaying the Nemean lion, cleaning the Augean stables in a single day, and obtaining the Girdle of the Amazon Queen? A: Hercules
Q: With 18 major championships, what golfer is nicknamed “The Golden Bear”? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: Making but a single flight, what was the real name given to Howard Hughes' birch plywood plane, the Spruce Goose? A: Hercules
Q: Sailor Jack and Bingo are the mascots for what prize awarding snack food, now produced by Frito Lay? A: Cracker Jack
Q: From what animal does the delicious meat mutton come from? A: Sheep
Q: The world is a poorer place with the passing last week of what TV legend, who hosted the Star Hustler/Star Gazer series, which had been in production since September 1976? A: Jack Horkheimer
Q: There are some things money can't buy. For everything else, there's what? A: Mastercard
Q: In drinks, what ingredient is the difference between a White Russian and a Black Russian? A: Milk
Q: The best selling comedy recording artist of all time, which comedian is best known for his "You might be a redneck" one liners? A: Jeff Foxworthy
Q: Who was Captain America's sidekick during World War II? A: Bucky
Q: Have raised over $1.46 billion to date, Jerry Lewis' annual Labor Day telethon raises money for what group? A: Muscular Dystrophy Association
Q: What popular science fiction character, later to be the subject of a 1980s television series starring Gil Gerrard, was first introduced in the August, 1928 issue of Amazing Stories, which tells the tale of how he was put into a coma until the 25th century, when he awakens to rid the world of evil warlords and "Mongol" hordes? A: Buck Rogers
Q: What television staple, developed by Beavis and Butt-head creator Mike Judge, is having its final episodes air this Sunday, following a 13 year run? A: King of the Hill
Q: What company used the advertising slogan “because I’m worth it”? A: L'Oreal
Q: What entertainment mega-corp recently announced they were acquiring Marvel Entertainment, home of Spiderman and the Incredible Hulk, among others, to the tune of $4 billion? A: The Walt Disney Company
Q: In poker, what is the name of a behavioral tick that gives away a players hand? A: A tell
Q: At what Cuban battlefield did Teddy Roosevelt and his Rough Riders attain fame, fortune, and glory during the Spanish American War? A: Battle of San Juan Hill
Q: In what two-player Milton Bradley board game, introduced in 1961, do players try to capture the other player's flag on a 10Ă10 board? A: Stratego
Q: If a female deer is known as a doe, what is the male known as? A: Buck
Q: What financial “whiz” is known as “The Oracle of Omaha”? A: Warren Buffett
Q: In the crappy celebrity kids names category, what Irish rocker, fomer head of the Boomtown Rats, named his kids Fifi Trixibelle, Peaches Honeyblossom, and Little Pixie? A: Bob Geldof
Q: What Brandeis University professor attained instant fame by accusing Judge Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment during his 1991 confirmation hearings? A: Anita Hill
Q: What singer was backed by band known as Crazy Horse? A: Neil Young
Q: To boldly go where no television series had gone before, what classic tv series had it's debut on NBC on Sept 8, 1966? A: Star Trek
Q: In the Barry Manilow song “Copacabana”, who was the show girl? A: Lola
Q: The Marquis of Queensberry rules govern what sport? A: Boxing
Q: High tech companies Apple Inc, Microsoft, eBay, Expedia, and Google are traded on what stock exchange, the second largest in the world? A: NASDAQ
Q: Translating as Fox from the Spanish, what is the more common name for the fictional character known as Don Diego del la Vega? A: Zorro
Q: Recently voiced by Danny DeVito, which Dr. Seuss character claims to speak for the trees? A: The Lorax
Q: Including such improvements as the falling shuttle and a presser foot, what household item did Isaac Singer improve in 1851? A: Sewing Machine
Q: What is the name for the raised portions on the neck of a stringed instrument, such as the guitar or banjo, which divide the neck into fixed segments? A: Fret
Q: "Oh where oh where has my Underdog gone," whines what anthropomorphic dog reporter, the love interest of Underdog, whenever she gets in trouble? A: Sweet Polly Purebred
Q: According to Greek mythology, which group of men accompanied Jason on his quest for the golden fleece? A: The Argonauts
Q: Name the 1989 Oscar winning movie from the IMDB plot summary: "An old Jewish woman and her African-American chauffeur in the American South have a relationship that grows and improves over the years." A: Driving Miss Daisy
Q: With over 6 million sold, the Roomba is an autonomous what? A: Vacuum cleaner
Q: Complete the following quote from Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet: “What’s in a name? that which we call a rose/ By any other name would”? A: Smell as sweet
Q: What designer founded the fashion house DKNY? A: Donna Karan
Q: “When You Wish Upon a Star” was recorded for what classic Disney film? A: Pinocchio
Q: What synthetic material, developed by DuPont in 1965, is a high strength material used in bike tires and as the basis for modern bullet proof vests? A: Kevlar
Q: An Eskimo roll is a maneuver to right what type of craft? A: Kayak
Q: One of the largest book publisher, what company took it's name from the founders desire to publish a few arbitrary books on the side? A: Random House
Q: What musical instrument is often crafted with two parallel pipes, one known as a chanter and the other known as a drone? A: Bagpipe
Q: William Shatner is the spokesperson for what online discount travel sight? A: Priceline.com
Q: In the world of pari-mutuel betting, what is it called when the bettor must pick the 3 horses that finish first, second, and third in the exact order? A: Trifecta
Q: Which jewelry house created a series of jeweled eggs that made popular gifts for the Russian nobility from 1885 to 1917? A: Faberge
Q: What famous house, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, is perched over a river in Stewart Township, Pennsylvania? A: Fallingwater
Q: What soft drink advertised itself as the Uncola? A: 7Up
Q: What was Little Miss Muffet eating when the spider came along? A: Curds and Whey
Q: Worn by the likes of Slash, Abraham Lincoln, and The Mad Hatter, what is the name for tall, flat-crowned, broad-brimmed headwear popular from the 19th century through today? A: Top Hat
Q: A week ago, Canadian officials announced that thieves had somehow made off with a quarter of Quebec's strategic reserve of what, valued at over $30 million? A: Maple Syrup
Q: Hook and ladder, flea flicker, and fumblerooski are trick plays used in what sport? A: Football
Q: What brand of rum, named for a privateer, advertises itself with the slogan "To Life, Love, and Loot"? A: Captain Morgan
Q: A Newfoundland dog named Nana was a nurse in what children's story? A: Peter Pan
Q: Jacqueline Lee Bouvier got married on Sept 11, 1963 married what then US Representative in Newport, RI? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: What can be an official stamp of quality on a precious metal, a greeting card company, and a cable TV channel? A: Hallmark
Q: What do you wrap in bacon to make that yummy dish known as Angels on horseback? A: Oysters
Q: Micky Dolenz, Michael Nesmith, Peter Tork, and Davy Jones were the members of which band? A: The Monkees
Q: Name the 1986 movie from the IMDB plot summary: "The macho students of an elite US Flying school for advanced fighter pilots compete to be best in the class, and one romances the teacher." A: Top Gun
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as "unknown land", is used in cartography to denote regions that have not been mapped or documented? A: Terra Incognita
Q: Now the largest back in the US (by assets), what investment bank merged with Chase Manhattan in 2000? A: JP Morgan
Q: What singer, born Richard Hall on Sept 11, 1965, took his stage name for supposedly having Herman Melville as his great-great-great-granduncle? A: Moby
Q: What US government agency monitors investor fraud, insider trading scenarios, and other investment irregularities? A: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Q: In ‘The Wizard of Oz’ books, what is the name of the Good Witch? A: Glinda the Good Witch of the South
Q: The Shoguns were warlords that ruled in what country? A: Japan
Q: What is the name for the large canvas, or more recently plastic, tent under which a circus performs? A: Big Top
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries that share a physical border with Costa Rica. A: Nicaragua and Panama
Q: Something described as 'tactile' relates to which of the five senses? A: Touch
Q: According to the western calendar, what is the birthstone for those born in the month of September? A: Sapphire
Q: Exxon, Mobil, Chevron, and Amoco were created from what company, broken up by the Sherman Antitrust act in 1911? A: Standard Oil
Q: The Mushroom Kingdom is the setting for what Nintendo video game series, first introduced on Sept 13, 1985 A: Super Mario Brothers
Q: According to Greek mythology, what son of Daedalus donned wings of feathers and wax, and promptly flew too close to the son, causing the wax to melt and his ultimate drowning, having fallen from the sky into the sea? A: Icarus
Q: Sept 14, 1901 saw the death of the 25th President of the United States, William McKinley. Which total badass was sworn in as his successor? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: What noted magician, escapologist, stunt performer, actor, film producer and noted skeptic, died of peritonitis, secondary to a ruptured appendix, in 1926? A: Harry Houdini
Q: The morning of September 14, 1814 saw what Baltimore lawyer pen a poem he title “The Defence of Fort McHenry”? A: Francis Scott Key
Q: If you were afflicted with hypotension, what are you suffering from? A: Low blood pressure
Q: Featuring the exploits of the cybernetically enhanced supersoldier known as Master Chief Petty Officer John-117, the final installment of what wildly popular video game series launched yesterday morning? A: Halo
Q: Famous for their little blue boxes, what NY based jewelry and silverware company first opened their doors on Sept 17, 1837? A: Tiffany
Q: Novels in which genre are eligible for the Hugo award, with Robert J Sawyer's Wake having won this years award? A: Science Fiction
Q: Sept 17, 1976 saw the unveiling of which NASA space shuttle, which while it was not destined to boldly go where no man had gone before, was a valuable test bed? A: Enterprise
Q: The only US Vice President in US history to have to resign because of criminal charges, the void created by what former governor of Maryland started Gerald Ford down the path to the presidency? A: Spiro T Agnew
Q: According to Arthurian legend what did the lady of the lake give to Arthur? A: Excalibur
Q: The world's largest hot desert, what is the name of the barren expanse that covers most of North Africa? A: Sahara
Q: Originally a separate town before being annexed by Seattle in 1891, what neighborhood refers to itself as "The Center of the Universe"? A: Fremont
Q: What's missing: Exosphere, Thermosphere, Mesosphere, Troposphere? A: Stratosphere
Q: What folk tale character is a young Chinese lad who is tricked into trying to retrieve a magic lamp from a booby trapped cave? A: Aladdin
Q: Often thought of as a desert phenomenon, what optical illusion happens when light rays are bent to produce a displaced image of a distant object? A: Mirage
Q: From the French for "some more", what name is given to the additional pieces played at the end of a concert to satisfy audience demand? A: Encore
Q: Notable for frequently standing on one leg, what bird, usually born grey, obtains its distinctive pink hue from the beta carotene in their food supply? A: Flamingo
Q: The Sabin vaccine, developed by Albert Sabin, was created to combat what viral infectious disease? A: Poliomyelitis
Q: Which crooner, a favorite of Judge Harry Stone on Night Court, was known as The Velvet Fog? A: Mel Torme
Q: Which U.S. president had a sign on his desk that stated "The buck stops here"? A: Harry S Truman
Q: Which rap star, who died on Sept 13, 1996 in a hail of gunfire on a Las Vegas street, was named for a Peruvian warrior king who fought against the Spanish? A: Tupac Shakur
Q: Which English children's author, who would have celebrated his 94th birthday on Monday, wrote such classics as The BFG, The Twits, James and the Giant Peach, and Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator, among dozens of others? A: Roald Dahl
Q: On Sept 17, 1916, WWI's highest scoring German ace, Manfred von Richthofen, scored his first aerial kill. By what name is he better known? A: Red Baron
Q: Asshat rapper Kanye West interrupted the VMA acceptance speech of which Best Female Video award winner? A: Taylor Swift
Q: According to Kermit the Frog, it's not easy what? A: Bein' Green
Q: The 23rd Amendment to the US Constitution allows Washington DC to appoint what? A: Presidential Electors
Q: What battleship was sunk in harbor of Havana, Cuba to start the Spanish-American War in 1898? A: The U.S.S. Maine
Q: Gertrude Baines, the world's oldest person, died earlier this week. How old was she? A: 115 years
Q: November 23, 1963 saw the BBC debut what classic series, which is still being shown today? A: Doctor Who
Q: With a population of a little over 110,000, what is the capital city and largest city of South Carolina? A: Columbia
Q: How many pints in a quart? A: 2
Q: According to Andy Warhol, in the future, how long will everyone be famous for? A: 15 minutes
Q: What is a seismometer used to measure? A: Earthquakes
Q: Napoleon was defeated at Waterloo. In which country is Waterloo? A: Belgium
Q: On Sept 14, 1901, the youngest president is sworn in following the assassination of William McKinley. Who is it? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: What is the name of the resident jailbird and all around lawbreaker on The Simpsons? A: Snake
Q: What state is known as the Magnolia State? A: Mississippi
Q: What is the common, 3 letter name given to a mafia crime boss? A: Don
Q: What legendary tribe of fierce female warriors reportedly amputated a breast in order to better wield a bow? A: Amazon
Q: What color consists of the longest wavelengths of lights visible by the human eye? A: Red
Q: Which space shuttle disintegrated over Texas on Feb 1, 2003, resulting in the loss of all 7 crew members? A: Columbia
Q: What was the eastern starting point of the Oregon Trail? A: Missouri
Q: What flavor is the 80 proof liqueur Grand Marnier, used in such drinks at a B-52? A: Orange
Q: On Sept 14, 1814, during the war of 1812, the poem The Defence of Fort McHenry, later to be the lyrics of the Star Spangled Banner, was written by whom? A: Francis Scott Key
Q: What is the tallest building in downtown Seattle? A: Columbia Tower
Q: Which celebrity has been named as the replacement for Paula Abduhl on American Idol? A: Ellen DeGeneris
Q: It is generally accepted that the game of golf originated in what country? A: Scotland
Q: Name the book and the author of this 1895 classic: 'The cold passed reluctantly from the earth, and the retiring fogs revealed an army stretched out on the hills, resting' A: The Red Badge of Courage by Stephen Crane
Q: September 17, 1859, saw Joshua Norton declare himself Norton 1st, Emperor of what? A: United States
Q: Each star on the US flag has how many points? A: 5
Q: A gosling is the young of what animal? A: Goose
Q: Newspaper editor Horace Greeley famously advised young men to do what "and grow up with the country" in an 1865 editorial? A: Go West
Q: White dwarfs, red giants, and blue stragglers are all types of what? A: Stars
Q: Which nautical term is used to describe the width of a vessel at its widest point? A: Beam
Q: What moderately famous ship, a Dutch cargo fluyt, set sail from Plymouth, England on Sep 16, 1620, with 102 passengers and 40 crew? A: Mayflower
Q: Someone described as mendacious has a habit of what? A: Lying
Q: The act of prestidigitation is also known as what? A: Sleight of hand
Q: In what card game does a player ask his opponent for one of his or her cards of a particular rank, drawing a card from the pool if the opponent has none? A: Go Fish
Q: Covering about 46% of the earth's surface, what is the largest of the oceans? A: Pacific
Q: Name the 2009 animated movie from the IMDB plot summary: “The most delicious event since macaroni met cheese. Inspired by the beloved children’s book, the film focuses on a town where food falls from the sky like rain.” A: Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs
Q: Sometimes called a competitive balance tax, what is the name for the financial penalty that large market baseball/basketball teams such as the Yankees or the Knicks must pay for spending more than a particular threshold? A: Luxury Tax
Q: What is the name for electronic toll collection system implemented by the WADOT for the Tacoma Narrows Bridge, SR-167, and the 520 floating bridge? A: Good To Go!
Q: The 16th Amendment to the US constitution, ratified in 1913, authorizes the US Congress to levy what? A: Income Tax
Q: The countries of Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, and Sweden all share a border with what large body of water? A: Baltic Sea
Q: According to The Drifter’s 1964 hit, where will we be “out of the sun, having fun, people walking above, We’ll be making love”? A: Under the Boardwalk
Q: In flight training, what is it called when the student pilot lands on a runway and takes off again without coming to a full stop, and repeats this circuit multiple times to allow for many landing practices? A: Touch and go
Q: September 17 of what year saw the Constitutional Convention adopt the US Constitution? A: 1787
Q: What is the active ingredient in smelling salts? A: Ammonia
Q: September 22, 1961 saw the passage of Public Law 87-293, which declares "To promote world peace and friendship through a [blank], which shall make available to interested countries and areas men and women of the United States qualified for service abroad and willing to serve, under conditions of hardship if necessary, to help the peoples of such countries and areas in meeting their needs for trained manpower." A: Peace Corps
Q: If you are DOA, medically speaking, what are you? A: Dead on Arrival
Q: What civil war battle, the bloodiest single-day battle in American history, took place near Sharpsburg, MD on Sept 17, 1862? A: Battle of Antietam
Q: Osiris was the god of the underworld in the mythology of which ancient civilization? A: Egypt
Q: From the Greek for pale green, what element with an atomic number 17, uses the symbol CL? A: Chlorine
Q: Who spent the last 19 years turning letters on the nightly TV show Wheel of Fortune? A: Vanna White
Q: What brand of semi-sweet chocolate morsels traditionally includes a recipe for Toll House cookies on the package? A: Nestle
Q: In the Sherlock Holmes stories, what is the name of the gang of street urchins employed by Sherlock Holmes to help solve crimes? A: The Baker Street Irregulars
Q: Which comedy team was famous for its “Who’s On First?” baseball routine? A: Abbott & Costello
Q: If you were a parrothead, of what musician would you be a fan of? A: Jimmy Buffet
Q: The tallest man-made monument in the US, the Gateway Arch is the centerpiece of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial in what US city, which recognizes the cities importance in the westward expansion? A: St. Louis, MO
Q: The plot by what traitorous Revolutionary War General asshat to turn West Point over to the British was uncovered this week in 1780? A: Benedict Arnold
Q: How many squares are there on a US bingo card? A: 25
Q: What Nestle candy bar consists of a flaky, orange-colored center with a peanut butter taste, coated in chocolate? A: Butterfinger
Q: On Sept. 24, 1906, total bad-ass President Theodore Roosevelt named what Wyoming landmark the nations first National Monument? A: Devils Tower
Q: What color are packets of Sweet 'N Low artificial sweetener? A: Pink
Q: What guitarist and Experience frontman, considered the greatest guitarist of all time, died on September 18, 1970 at a London flat of a suspected drug overdose? A: Jimi Hendrix
Q: What marine organisms are responsible for creating the reefs that are such an important part of tropical islands? A: Coral
Q: Played by George Takei, who was the helmsman on the USS Enterprise for the duration of the series? A: Hikaru Sulu
Q: Who rules Narnia following the reign of High King Peter in the Chronicles of Narnia series by C.S. Lewis? A: Prince Caspian
Q: Different from the flags used by the officials, what color flag is used by NFL football coaches to challenge the ruling on the field? A: Red
Q: What perennially happy artist spent 12 years hosting the PBS staple The Joy of Painting, before his untimely death in 1985? A: Bob Ross
Q: What color was the 1993 Ford Bronco that Al Cowlings used to take O.J. Simpson on a low-speed chase up and down the LA freeway system? A: White
Q: Born with the first name of George, what English author, who is one of the claimed Fathers of Science Fiction, wrote The Time Machine, and The Invisible Man, among many other works? A: HG Wells
Q: Freestyle, Greco-Roman, and Thumb are all types of what? A: Wrestling
Q: What is the common name for the part of the chicken egg known as the albumen? A: Egg white
Q: What corporation owns the Seattle Marines? A: Nintendo of America
Q: What is the medical name for your shoulder blade? A: Scapula
Q: Jared Fogle became a spokesperson for what fast food chain, following his dramatic weight loss by eating their products? A: Subway
Q: What TV series, which debuted in 1951, featured the weekly travails of, “Just the facts, ma’am”, Sgt Joe Friday? A: Dragnet
Q: There are 4 gas giants in our solar system. For a point each, name them. A: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune
Q: First introduced in 1939, what “law” states “in a hierarchy every employee tends to rise to their level of incompetence”, with the corollaries that “in time, every post tends to be occupied by an employee who is incompetent to carry out their duties” A: Peter Principle
Q: September 24, 1906 saw that Great American, Teddy Roosevelt, declare what Wyoming landmark the first ever National Monument? A: Devils' Tower
Q: A mere 17 days after a previous attempt, Sara Jane Moore took a shot at which US president outside San Francisco's St. Francis Hotel on Sep 22? A: Gerald Ford
Q: "Kid tested. Mother approved." is the advertising slogan for what cereal? A: Kix
Q: What entertainment business magnate and talk show host created the TV staples Jeopardy! and Wheel of Fortune? A: Merv Griffin
Q: On Sept 22, 1827, who supposedly met an angel called Moroni who directed him to a long-buried book, inscribed on golden plates, which inspired him to write The Book of Mormon? A: Joseph Smith, Jr
Q: When The Simpsons kicks off it's new season this Sunday, it will mark the start of what season? A: 22nd
Q: September 20, 1973, saw the famous Battle of the Sexes tennis match when former world #1 tennis player Bobby Riggs dropped his match against what female tennis star? A: Billie Jean King
Q: What English author, known as the Father of Science Fiction, was born on September 21, 1866, and wrote such stories as The Land Ironclads, The Invisible Man, and The Island of Doctor Moreau? A: HG Wells
Q: Sept 21, 1937 saw the publishing of what classic J.R.R. Tolkien novel, subtitled “There and Back Again”? A: The Hobbit
Q: What nursery rhyme character kept his wife in a pumpkin shell? A: Peter, Peter pumpkin eater
Q: Known for guarding treasure and priceless possessions, what legendary creatures has the body of a lion and the head and wings of an eagle? A: Griffin
Q: Who's missing: Chico, Groucho, Gummo, Zeppo? A: Harpo
Q: Who was the president for all but the last 6 months of the Korean war? A: Harry S Truman
Q: Whose record did the Simpsons surpass for the longest-running animated series? A: The Flintstones
Q: Last week saw the demise of what CBS soap opera, having been the longest running soap opera ever? A: Guiding Light
Q: Which Italian fashion designer was shot and killed outside his Miami home by Andrew Cunanan in 1997? A: Gianni Versace
Q: What is the most populous city in China? A: Shanghai
Q: Which eighties band was comprised of George Michael & Andrew Ridgley? A: Wham!
Q: Yesterday marked the first day of fall. Was it a solstice? Or an equinox? A: Equinox
Q: Of Oscar Madison and Felix Unger, which one was the slob? A: Oscar Madison
Q: What magazine, with its iconic yellow border, was first published on Sept 22, 1888? A: National Geographic
Q: The Beaverton, Or sporting goods company Nike takes their name from a Greek Goddess. What was Nike the Goddess of? A: Victory
Q: In which country did the Contras battle the Sandinistas throughout most of the 1980s? A: Nicaragua
Q: September 19th is International what Day? A: Talk Like a Pirate Day
Q: On Sept 22, 1827, Joseph Smith, Jr supposedly met an angel called Moroni who directed Smith to a long-buried book, inscribed on golden plates, which inspired him to write what? A: The Book of Mormon
Q: The Emmy awards, as hosted by Neil Patrick Harris, aired on Sunday. In what year was the award first given? A: 1949
Q: The 24th Amendment to the US constitution makes what illegal? A: Poll taxes
Q: Mount Ranier is the highest mountain in the state of Washington. What is the second hightest? A: Mount Adams
Q: Sept 20, 1973 saw the Battle of the Sexes, the tennis match that had which two players facing off against each other? A: Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs
Q: “From the halls of Montezuma…” is the opening lyric to the official hymn of what branch of the U.S. armed forces? A: Marine Corps
Q: What is the name of the asshat, English judge on American Idol, notorious for his blunt and often controversial criticisms, insults and wisecracks about contestants and their abilities? A: Simon Cowell
Q: Located in Wyoming, what was the first National Monument, as declared by Teddy Roosevelt on Sept 24, 1906? A: Devils Tower
Q: Which TV comedy is set in the Scranton, Pennsylvania branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company? A: The Office
Q: In which state would you find the gold depository at Fort Knox? A: Kentucky
Q: A Hoosier is a native of which state? A: Indiana
Q: Jermajesty was the son of which member of The Jackson 5? A: Jermaine
Q: What Revolutionary War hero, who regretted that he had but one life to give his country, was hung by the British on Sept 22, 1776? A: Nathan Hale
Q: Called the Queen of the Skies, the first of what widebody airliner rolled out of the Everett assembly plant on September 30, 1968? A: 747
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as "let the buyer beware", is taken to mean that the purchaser of an item is responsible for checking whether the goods suit his need? A: Caveat emptor
Q: What type of geographical feature is the Little Bighorn, site of a famous 1876 battle? A: River
Q: Riverside, Iowa proclaims itself to be the "official future birthplace" of what fictional captain? A: James T. Kirk
Q: Born John Chapman on Sept 27, 1774, what pioneer nurseryman spent most of his life wandering through the Midwest, planting fruit orchards? A: Johnny Appleseed
Q: What famed American architect was the leader of the Prairie School movement? A: Frank Lloyd Wright
Q: Dying of kidney failure on Sept 28, 1914, which business magnate partnered with Alvah Roebuck to found a still existing department store? A: Richard Sears
Q: Winning all 13 tricks in a hand of Contract Bridge is known as what? A: Grand Slam
Q: What poet lamented "Water, water, everywhere, Nor any a drop to drink" in a 1789 poem? A: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Q: What bird breed was used by coal miners to detect the presence of toxic gases in the mines? A: Canary
Q: What can be a condiment, a gas, or a Colonel? A: Mustard
Q: Graphite is a form of which chemical element? A: Carbon
Q: It is generally believed that what Philadelphia widow created the first Stars and Stripes in 1776? A: Betsy Ross
Q: Mohair is a silk-like fabric made from the hair of what domesticated animal? A: Angora goat
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries that share a physical border with Belize. A: Guatemala and Mexico
Q: Sperm, pilot, and beluga are all types of what? A: Whales
Q: What part of the human body is affected by meningitis? A: Brain
Q: Established on September 25, 1890, Sequoia National Park is in what state? A: California
Q: Last week, the Department of Justice released a detailed report on Operation Fast and Furious, which allowed what to be smuggled across the Mexican border? A: Guns
Q: Now a National Historic Site, at what Washington DC location (10th St NW) did the first presidential assassination take place? A: Ford's Theater
Q: Fanilows are fans of what singer/songwriter/performer? A: Barry Manilow
Q: Former Seahawks all pro receiver Steve Largent is formerly a US representative from what state? A: Oklahoma
Q: Known as The Silver State, what was the 36th state to join the Union on Oct 31, 1864? A: Nevada
Q: The first of the 59 ordered Boeing 787s was delivered Monday to All Nippon Airways. By what name is the aircraft known? A: Dreamliner
Q: From the Greek for new one, what element, with an atomic number of 10, uses the symbol Ne? A: Neon
Q: New York Yankees legend Lou Gehrig was known by what nickname? A: The Iron Horse
Q: What Washington D.C. landmark is depicted on the reverse of the US $5 bill? A: Lincoln Memorial
Q: Anchored by the star Hamal, the constellation Aries represents what animal? A: The Ram
Q: Which came first? Dunkin' Donuts? Or Starbucks? A: Dunkin' Donuts
Q: What Southern staple, a savory bread product often served as a side dish in seafood restaurants, is made from cornbread batter that is deep fried in small ball shapes? A: Hushpuppy
Q: September 27, 1964 saw the publishing of the Warren Commission's report that looked into the assassination of whom? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: What university was Mark Zuckerberg attending when he co-founded Facebook with three fellow classmates? A: Harvard
Q: For a point each, name both of the countries that share a border with The Republic of Sierra Leone. A: Guinea and Liberia
Q: Folk, Rain, and Lap are all types of what? A: Dance
Q: “Wocka Wocka Wocka” was the catchphrase of the Muppet Fozzie, who was what kind of animal? A: A bear
Q: Sept 25, 1981 saw which Arizona judge appointed the first female member of the US Supreme Court? A: Sandra Day O'Connor
Q: Which president survived two assassination attempts, both by women, in a 17 day period? A: Gerald Ford
Q: How many points are awarded for a safety in a football game? A: 2
Q: A hero to the Swiss, William Tell shot what from the head of his son in a feat of crossbow marksmanship? A: An apple
Q: Robert's Rules of Order is considered to be the ultimate authority on what? A: Parliamentary procedure
Q: What cookies are commonly used in making banana pudding? A: Nilla Wafers
Q: September 29, 1966 saw the introduction of what Chevrolet muscle car, still in production today, whose name supposedly means "a small, vicious animal that eats Mustangs."? A: Camaro
Q: In what Olympic weightlifting event does the lifter explosively pulling the weight from the floor to a racked position and then, through a series of quick motions, pushes the bar above his head? A: Clean and Jerk
Q: What type of fruit is typically part of a Waldorf salad? A: Apple
Q: September 1943 saw the formal surrender of what Tripartite Pact nation, ending their participation in WWII? A: Italy
Q: September 27, 1821 saw Mexico gain its independence from what European country? A: Spain
Q: October 2, 1950 saw the debut of what comic strip which ran until creator Charles M. Schulz's death on Feb 12, 2000? A: Peanuts
Q: In chess, white moves first. What color moves first in a game of checkers? A: black
Q: What river does the Grand Coulee dam block? A: Columbia
Q: Fly the friendly skies is the advertising slogan for what company? A: United
Q: Which was domesticated first? The dog? Or the Cat? A: The dog
Q: Monday marked the anniversary internet giant Google, started in 1998, while its founders were attending what PAC-10 school? A: Stanford
Q: 94 years ago today, what New York born oil baron became the worlds first billionaire? A: John D. Rockefeller
Q: Honeycrisp, Ambrosia, Pippin, Gravenstein, and McIntosh are varieties of what? A: Apple
Q: Oct 1, 1924 was the birth of what former US President, winner of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: The FBI operates under what federal department? A: Department of Justice
Q: A feature of the thyroid cartilage, what is the common name of the laryngeal prominence? A: Adams Apple
Q: President George Washington sent the proposed first ten amendments to the US Constitution to the senate for ratification on October 2, 1789. By what name are these amendments commonly known? A: Bill of Rights
Q: Lady Gaga raised the ire of PETA earlier this month when she wore what tot he VMAs? A: A meat dress
Q: What long running ABC sports program promised viewers 'the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat'? A: The Wide World of Sports
Q: On Sept 30, 1955, which iconic film actor died when his Porosche 550 Spyder collided with a Ford coupe driven by Donald Turnupseed? A: James Dean
Q: What self-governed U.S. territory has the motto: “Where America’s day begins”? A: Guam
Q: According to the old proverb, practice makes what? A: Perfect
Q: Cursed, tormented and damned ghostly sailors aboard the Flying Dutchmen are forever forced to sail the waters around what South African headland, still a major navigation point (and commonly thought to be the southern most point in Africa)? A: Cape of Good Hope
Q: The first production Model T rolled off the assembly line on Sept 27, the first of over 15 million to be produced. In what year was it? A: 1908
Q: In what state was Mayberry located on the Andy Griffith Show? A: North Carolina
Q: Which president’s son founded the political magazine ‘George’, started in 1995, before his untimely death in a 1999 plane crash? A: JFK Jr
Q: Sometimes referred to as a Western, what name is commonly given to the omelet filled with diced ham, onions, and green bell peppers? A: Denver Omelet
Q: According to Greek legend, what was the only thing left in the box after Pandora released all the evils of mankind? A: Hope
Q: Sept 30, 1966 saw the public unveiling of which popular model of Boeing aircraft? A: 747
Q: The Pepsi Center is home to a professional basketball and hockey teams, as well as the National Lacrosse League team, the Mammoths, and also hosted the 2008 Democratic National Convention. In what major US city is it located? A: Denver, CO
Q: Which US National Park is spread across the most states? A: Yellowstone
Q: What ocean is surrounded on 3 sides by Australia, Asia, and Africa? A: Indian Ocean
Q: With the ability to regenerate when death looms, which sci fi character has been played by 9 different actors in the 30 years the show has been on TV? A: Doctor Who
Q: Which red-headed orphan was adopted by Daddy Warbucks? A: Annie
Q: By what name is deer meat more commonly known? A: Venison
Q: Producing her first painting while in her seventies, Anna Mary Moses is better known by what name? A: Grandma Moses
Q: Which pain relieving drug was first discovered in the bark of the willow tree? A: Aspirin
Q: Which country has more coastline than any other? A: Canada
Q: Name the 1960 movie from its’ IMDB plot summary: “A young woman steals $40,000 from her employer’s client, and subsequently encounters a young motel proprietor too long under the domination of his mother.” A: Psycho
Q: What famed daredevil, who failed in a 1974 motorcycle jump, is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the survivor of "most bones broken in a lifetime"? A: Evel Knievel
Q: On Oct 1, 1975 the world saw Joe Frazier drop a bout to who in a battle that came to be known as the Thrilla in Manilla? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: Oct 4, 1927 saw sculptor Gutzon Borglum begin work on what major national memorial? A: Mount Rushmore
Q: Founded in New York in 1853, Steinway & Sons manufactures what type of musical instrument? A: Pianos
Q: Stress, compound, and greenstick are all types of what? A: Bone fractures
Q: "We all fall down" is the last line of what nursery rhyme or playground singing game? A: Ring Around the Rosie
Q: What does a chronometer measure? A: Time
Q: Oct 4, 1957 saw the launch of the first artificial satellite to orbit the earth. By what name do we commonly know this satellite as? A: Sputnik 1
Q: At the start of a game of checkers, each player starts with how many pieces? A: 12
Q: Immortalized in 2001 movie Black Hawk Down, the battle in what Somali city cost the list of 18 soldiers in an attempt to capture officials of warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid? A: Mogadishu
Q: What can be a political concept, a bell, and a ship? A: Liberty
Q: Oct 6, 1969 saw the introduction of what BBC show, featuring the talents of Graham Chapman, Terry Jones, and Terry Gillam, among others? A: Monty Pythons Flying Circus
Q: October 2, 1950 saw the introduction of the "moderately famous" comic strip known as Peanuts. Who was the creative genius behind the long running strip? A: Charles M. Shultz
Q: In music, what name is given to a note that is neither sharp nor flat? A: Natural
Q: Finish this line from a popular kids song: There was a farmer had a dog, and ____ was his name-o! A: Bingo
Q: What long running PBS series features Norm Abram as Master Carpenter, Roger Cook as the Landscape contractor, Tom Silva as the General ContraCtor and Richard Trethewey as the Plumbing and Heating contractor? A: This Old House
Q: Olfactory refers to which of the senses? A: Smell
Q: Which nursery rhyme character is supposed to come blow his horn, since the sheep's in the meadow and the cows in the corn? A: Little Boy Blue
Q: What long running TV variety show, broadcast from 1948 to 1971, was responsible for introducing acts such as Jerry Lee Lewis, Elvis Presley, The Beatles, The Supremes, The Beach Boys, The Jackson 5, The Rolling Stones, The Lovin' Spoonful and The Doors to the US? A: The Ed Sullivan Show
Q: Oct 6, 1969 saw the introduction of what BBC show, generally regarded as one of the funniest tv series ever? A: Monty Python's Flying Circus
Q: Anchored by the star Altair, what does the constellation Aquila represent? A: An eagle
Q: What can be a work that is accepted as official in a fictional literary universe, a religious law, or a camera? A: Canon
Q: What American Romantic writer, poet, editor and literary critic, known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, was found wandering the streets of Baltimore, incoherent and wearing clothes that were not his own, on Oct 3, 1849? A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: How many players does each team have on the field in a Canadian Football League game? A: 12
Q: From the Greek for color, what element, with an atomic number of 24, uses the symbol Cr? A: Chromium
Q: According to Norse mythology, who is the wife of Odin? A: Frigg
Q: What form of communication is an epistle? A: a letter
Q: Known as Operation Enduring Freedom, what war began on Oct 7th, 2001? A: Afghanistan war
Q: Dig 'Em Frog is the mascot for what brand of cereal? A: Honey Smacks
Q: October 2, 1959 saw the introduction of the long running CBS TV series The Twilight Zone. Who hosted and created the series? A: Rod Serling
Q: Daisywheel, dot-matrix, and laser are all types of what? A: Printers
Q: Ken Burn's latest documentary debuted last Sunday on PBS. What subject matter does it cover? A: Prohibition
Q: What long running comic strip, introduced on Oct 2, 1950, was drawn by the same cartoonist, Charles M. Schultz, during its' entire run? A: Peanuts
Q: The rare semi-precious gemstone known as lapis lazuli is what color? A: Blue
Q: A human with X and Y sex chromosomes is usually which gender? A: Male
Q: What Russian physiologist and psychologist documented his experiments in the book Conditioned Reflexes: An Investigation of the Physiological Activity of the Cerebral Cortex. in 1927? A: Ivan Pavlov
Q: On Oct 4, 1927, Idahoan Gutzon Borglum began carving on what South Dakota mountain that the Lakota Sioux called Six Grandfathers? A: Mount Rushmore
Q: Pago Pago is the capital of what territory? A: American Samoa
Q: What's missing: Animal Kingdom, Hollywood Studios, Epcot, Typhoon Lagoon, Blizzard Beach A: Magic Kingdom
Q: What company described its products as Finger Lickin' Good? A: Kentucky Fried Chicken
Q: Feta cheese is made primarily from the milk of what animal? A: Sheep
Q: The Family Stone backed up what San Francisco funk and soul singer? A: Sly Stone
Q: Commonly believed to have been started by a frisky bovine owned by Patrick and Catherine O'Leary, what city was devastated by a fire that start on Oct 8, 1871 and lasted for 2 days? A: Chicago
Q: According to Shakespeare, brevity is the soul of what? A: Wit
Q: Oct 9 celebrates what famed explorer, who brought the first Europeans known to have set foot in North America? A: Leif Erikson
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who lost their mittens, thereby obligating their mother to with hold pie? A: Three Little Kittens
Q: Starring Sean Connery, who would later make his fame playing Zed in Zardoz, what was the name of the first James Bond movie, released on October 5, 1962? A: Dr. No
Q: Which family lives at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: What is the name of the diamond stolen in the 1963 film, The Pink Panther? A: The Pink Panther
Q: Finish this line from a popular kids’ song: “There was a farmer had a dog, and ____ was his name-o!” A: Bingo
Q: A human with two X sex chromosomes is usually which gender? A: Female
Q: What TV game show, which ran from 1965 to 2004, featured an array of celebrities seated in a tic-tac-toe board? A: Hollywood Squares
Q: 8 years ago today saw the US begin the invasion of what country? A: Afghanistan
Q: What unit of wave frequency is defined as 1 cycle per second? A: Hertz
Q: The Rainbow Coalition and Operation PUSH were 2 non-profits founded by which activist and Baptist minister? A: Jesse Jackson
Q: What is the minimum age required to become a member of the U.S. House of Representatives? A: 25
Q: The Seattle Mariners managed to win more games than they lost this year. How many games did they actually win? A: 85
Q: What country singer has been known as The Red Headed Stranger since the 1975 album of the same name went multi-platinum? A: Willie Nelson
Q: What is the planet that Superman came from? A: Krypton
Q: If you were going to examine a horse to determine its age, at what body part would you look? A: Teeth
Q: What is the most common eye color in human beings? A: Brown
Q: Oct 7, 2001 saw the start of the war in Afghanistan, which is known as what? A: Operation Enduring Freedom
Q: Lasting anywhere from 1 to 3 minutes, what are the intervals that make up a boxing match called? A: Rounds
Q: What is the name of former Beatle Paul McCartney's fashion designing daughter? A: Stella
Q: Serving since 1993, who is the senior Senator from the great State of Washington? A: Patty Murray
Q: How many yards wide is a professional football field? A: 53.3 yards
Q: What type of food is Nori, which is often seen around sushi? A: Seaweed
Q: Tomorrow marks the 38th anniversary of the start of what long running TV staple, created by Lorne Michaels with the incomparable Don Pardo as the narrator? A: Saturday Night Live
Q: Daimler, Siemens, and chemical company BASF are all based in what country? A: Germany
Q: The Proboscis Monkey is known for its very long what? A: Nose
Q: What is the name of the anti-slavery novel written by American author Harriet Beecher Stowe in 1852? A: Uncle Tom's Cabin
Q: Disc, drum, and air are all types of what? A: Brakes
Q: What is the trademarked name for the distinctive logo used Nike? A: Swoosh
Q: If the TV parental warning includes the letters FV, what are they warning against? A: Fantasy Violence
Q: Made from red clay, what is the name of the talking horse companion of Gumby? A: Pokey
Q: In mathematics, what name is given to the results of a division problem? A: Quotient
Q: Played by Gary Cooper in the 1941 movie, what Tennessee born Medal of Honor winner killed 28 and captured 132 soldiers during the Meuse-Argonne Offensive and was the most decorated US soldier of WWI? A: Alvin York
Q: Played by Denver Pyle during the 6 year run of the show, who was the patriarch of the Duke clan on The Dukes of Hazzard? A: Uncle Jesse Duke
Q: What is the name of the horse ridden by The Lone Ranger? A: Silver
Q: October 12, 1901 saw the old moniker of Executive Mansion replaced with the more familiar White House, when what total badass declared it so? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Name the 1986 cult classic movie from the IMDB plot summary: "An All-American trucker gets dragged into a centuries-old mystical battle in Chinatown." A: Big Trouble in Little China
Q: For a point each, name the 6 countries that share a physical border with the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. A: Pakistan, Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and China
Q: Slaughterhouse-Five, the 1969 novel by Kurt Vonnegut, is set against the backdrop of the Allied bombing of which German city during World War II? A: Dresden
Q: According to Greek mythology, the great weaver Arachne was turned into what by the goddess Athena, as punishment for her hubris? A: Spider
Q: What can be a piniped, a means of royal authentication, and a British soul singer? A: Seal
Q: What Latin word, which means “word for word” is taken to mean a perfect transcription or quotation? A: Verbatim
Q: What insurance company uses an umbrella in its logo? A: Travelers
Q: If bovine describes a cow, canine a dog, and feline a cat, what does vulpine define? A: A fox
Q: Now considered one of the top legal minds on the court, the confirmation hearing for what current associate Supreme Court justice was marred by accusations of sexual harassment from attorney Anita Hill? A: Clarence Thomas
Q: Today marks the 90th anniversary of the birth of Art Clokey, a pioneer in the field of stop motion clay animation, who is best remembered for what green shapeshifter? A: Gumby
Q: What is the name for the helical grooves in the barrel of a gun designed to impart spin on the projectile to improve its aerodynamic stability and accuracy? A: Rifling
Q: Walmart is selling bags of Cheesy Poofs to promote the latest season of what popular TV show? A: South Park
Q: Originally known as the Executive Mansion (until the greatest man ever, Teddy Roosevelt, made its nickname official), the cornerstone of what building was laid on Oct 13, 1792? A: The White House
Q: Cinder Cone, composite, and shield are all types of what? A: Volcanoes
Q: October 11, 1975 saw the debug of SNL with what famed comedian as the host? A: George Carlin
Q: According to the pangram, what jumps over the lazy dog? A: The Quick Brown Fox
Q: Known as The Centennial State, what was the 38th state to join the Union on August 1, 1876? A: Colorado
Q: October 9th, 1967, saw the execution of major asshat Ernesto “Che” Guevara by soldiers from which South American Country? A: Bolivia
Q: What is the name of the race car driven by Speed Racer in the late 1960s series of the same name? A: Mach 5
Q: From the French for bottom of the bag, what is the name for a dead end street, usually circular at the end? A: Cul-de-sac
Q: On Oct 14, 1912, what former president, and all around bad-assed, was shot during a campaign speech, and proceeded to deliver a 90 minute speech? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Kimchi, a fermented dish usually based on cabbage, radishes, green onions, or cucumber, is a staple of what country's food? A: Korea
Q: A block and tackle is an apparatus that utilizes what simple machine? A: Pulley
Q: “We Report. You Decide.”, “The Most Powerful Name in News” , and “Fair & Balanced” are among the slogans used by what cable TV news channel? A: Fox News
Q: Which sport announced a recent hiatus in the beginning of their season due to the inability to adopt on a new collective bargaining agreement? A: NBA
Q: From the Norwegian for Heavy Stone, what element, with an atomic number of 74, uses the symbol W? A: Tungsten
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries surrounding the Kingdom of Swaziland. A: Mozambique and South Africa
Q: October 10, 1973 saw the resignation of which Maryland politician, Nixon's first vice president, following charges of tax evasion? A: Spiro T. Agnew
Q: What was the name of the gypsy girl that Quasimodo fell in love with in Victor Hugo's The Hunchback of Notre Dame? A: Esmeralda
Q: Encouraged to commit suicide for his part in the attempt to assassinate head asshat Adolph Hitler, Field Marshal Erwin Rommel earned what nickname for his prowess on the WWII battlefields of North Africa? A: The Desert Fox
Q: Oct 14, 1926 saw the introduction of what favorite A. A. Milne character, known for his love of hunny? A: Winnie-the-Pooh
Q: What can be garden tools, a card game, or a type of drill bit? A: Spade
Q: The Vitruvian Man, a famous drawing of a nude man in two superimposed positions with arms and legs apart, inscribed in a circle within a square, was drawn by whom? A: Leonardo DaVinci
Q: October 12, 1997 saw the death of what famed singer, born Henry Deutschendorf, when he lost control of his aircraft and crashed into the ocean near Pacific Grove, CA? A: John Denver
Q: Originally starring Jack Lord, and recently remade, what TV show popularized the phrase “Book ’em, Danno”? A: Hawaii Five O
Q: Oct 11, 1975 saw the introduction of what TV staple, hosted by George Carlin, with Andy Kaufman, Janis Ian and Billy Preston as guests? A: Saturday Night Live
Q: Rescued earlier today, in what country were 33 gold/copper miners trapped below surface, since August 5th, setting a world record for the long time trapped in a mine? A: Chile
Q: "You are Now Free to Move About the Country" is the advertising slogan for what transportation company? A: Southwest Airlines
Q: October 14, 1912 saw certified asshat John Schrank take a shot at what former president, and all around bad-ass, who was currently campaigning for another trip to the White House at the head of the Bull Moose party? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: October 11, 1950 saw the birth of what US politician, known as "a mom in tennis shoes", who is currently facing off against Dino Rossi? A: Patty Murray
Q: What semi-aquatic, fish eating mammal, related to the weasel, is prized for its fur and enjoyed for its playful nature? A: Otter
Q: What English comedian, who celebrates a birthday today, is known for characters such as Ali G, Borat, and Bruno, and will be starring as Freddie Mercury in an upcoming Queen movie? A: Sacha Baron Cohen
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who went “wee, wee, wee all the way home”? A: This Little Piggy
Q: What legendary singer, dubbed the Prince of Motown, had his life cut a little short when he was gunned down by his father in 1984 following an argument? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: According to the National Park Service, which National Park is the most visited in the United States, with about 10 million visitors per year? A: Great Smoky Mountains
Q: What artist, along with his wife, is best known for wrapping large structures in cloth, such as wrapping the Reichstag, islands in Biscayne Bay, and a bridge in Paris? A: Christo
Q: With a vote of 52-48, which US Supreme Court justice was confirmed on Oct 14, 1991, in spite of the allegations of sexual harassment by attorney Anita Hill? A: Clarence Thomas
Q: Who was the Secretary of State under both Presidents Lincoln and Johnson, best remembered for negotiating the purchase of Alaska from the Russians in 1867? A: William H Seward
Q: On Oct 12, 1901 which great US president gave the Executive Mansion its current name, The White House? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Cimex lectularius, a small, parasitic insect, is better known as what? A: A bedbug
Q: October 12, 1492 saw Christopher Columbus make landfall in the New World. In what current country did he touch shore? A: The Bahamas
Q: According to the comic strip Peanuts, whom does Linus await each year, only to be disappointed when he never seems to visit the pumpkin patch? A: The Great Pumpkin
Q: Immortalized in the movie Eight Men Out, the 1919 World Series was tainted by 8 members of what team throwing games to the World Series winning Cincinnati Reds? A: Chicago White Sox
Q: What Cuban favorite consists of white rum, sugar (traditionally sugar cane juice), lime, sparkling water and mint? A: Mojito
Q: What's missing: The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, Life, The Universe, and Everything, So Long, And Thanks For All The Fish, and Mostly Harmless? A: The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
Q: Combining equal parts of yellow and blue produce what color? A: Green
Q: What unit of length is defined as the mean distance between the earth and the sun (approximately 149,597,871 km)? A: Astronomical Unit
Q: Wings sang behind what singing legend, which Guinness calls the most successful songwriter in the history of popular music? A: Paul McCartney
Q: What percent of the world's ice does Antarctica contain? A: 90%
Q: If you were a teenager living on Elm Street in 1984, what should you never do? A: Go to sleep
Q: Which actress, who played Julie Horvath on the TV sitcom One Day at a Time, recently revealed she had a 10+ year consensual relationship with her father? A: Mackenzie Phillips
Q: Who is the archenemy of Flash Gordon? A: Ming the Merciless
Q: What former Los Angeles Lakers cheerleader gained stardom as a singer with her debut album Forever Your Girl, and has subsequently managed to milk her 15 minutes for the last 9+ years? A: Paula Abdul
Q: Traditionally, the concertmaster of a symphonic orchestra plays what instrument? A: Violin
Q: What is the name for the New Orleans submarine sandwich usually consisting of fried seafood served on a baguette-like Louisiana French bread? A: Po boy
Q: What type of screw and screwdriver, designed to aid in automated manufacturing lines, features a small cross on the head of the screw? A: Phillips
Q: The Nobel Peace Prize is the only Nobel prize not awarded in Stockholm, Sweden. In what city does the ceremony actually take place? A: Oslo, Norway
Q: What mountain range separates the continents of Europe and Asia? A: Ural Mountains
Q: Oct 14, 1926 saw the introduction of what favorite childhood character, known for his love of hunny? A: Winnie-the-Pooh
Q: In 1998, what name did Frito Lay add to its line of snack products that used the artificial fat substitute Olestra (anal leakage not withstanding)? A: Wow!
Q: A peach / Looks good / With lots of fuzz / But man's no peach / And never wuz and Your shaving brush / Has had its day / So why not / Shave the modern way were roadside signs advertising what product from 1925 to 1963? A: Burma Shave
Q: In what year was the first Nobel Peace Prize actually awarded, ostensibly to someone who earned it? A: 1901
Q: How old must you be to serve on a jury in the city of Seattle? A: 18
Q: Which entertainment icon, with a 20 year career on television, is poised to appear on the cover of Playboy magazine next month? A: Marge Simpson
Q: Located in North Africa, Libya is the only country with a one color flag. What color is it? A: Green
Q: On Oct 17, 1976, the Seattle Seahawks won their first ever game by beating which other expansion team? A: Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Q: That staple of kids daytime tv (and probably really great when you're drunk), the Teletubbies consist of Tinky Winky, LaLa, Dipsy, and who? A: Po
Q: A dry goods shop specializes in selling what product? A: Textiles
Q: Hammering Man, that iconic working stiff in front of the Seattle Arm Museum, is on a break through the end of the year. How many times per minute does he swing that hammer, when he's actually swinging that hammer? A: 4
Q: According to KFC, Colonel Sanders' original recipe contained how many herbs and spices? A: 11
Q: The taxing of what item caused rioting and attacks in Western Pennsylvania in 1794, enough that militia troops were dispatched to squelch it? A: Whiskey
Q: Judged by Nigel Lythgoe and Mary Murphy, what Fox show features a panel of finalists who dance with and against each other for fan votes? A: So You Think You Can Dance
Q: What is the name of the tough fibrous structural protein found in fingernails and toenails? A: Keratin
Q: Which insect, native to central Africa, is notorious for causing the sleeping sickness? A: Tsetse fly
Q: Citizen (of watch fame), JVC, and Olympus are all companies based in what country? A: Japan
Q: Knitting uses needles. What tool does crocheting use? A: Hooks
Q: With a truck body on a car chassis, what Chevrolet product, produced from 1959-60, and 64-87, was a competitor to the Ford Ranchero? A: El Camino
Q: The catchphrase of what Toy Story character was “To Infinity and Beyond”? A: Buzz Lightyear
Q: The application of what rule, which, according to their tweets, even Major League Baseball doesn't understand, played a pivotal role in the 2012 National League Wild Card Playoff game? A: Infield Fly Rule
Q: The Japanese art of growing meticulously groomed miniature trees in indoor containers is known as what? A: Bonsai
Q: What CNN news anchor was the “moderator” of yesterday’s presidential debate at Hofstra University in NY? A: Candy Crowley
Q: Name the 1979 movie from its’ IMDB plot summary: “A Los Angeles Rams quarterback, accidentally taken away from his body by an over-anxious angel before he was supposed to die, comes back to life in the body of a recently-murdered millionaire.”? A: Heaven Can Wait
Q: What lifted the capsule that Felix Baumgartner rode some 24 miles into the stratosphere before his historic jump this week? A: Helium Balloon
Q: Snidely Whiplash was the arch-enemy of Dudley Do-Right, while Simon Bar Sinister faced off against Underdog. Who is the arch-enemy of Mighty Mouse? A: Oil Can Harry
Q: With 6 local locations, what is the name of the clearance store operated by local upscale retailer Nordstroms? A: Nordstrom Rack
Q: What brand of gum, packaged in a red, white, and blue wrapper, includes a small comic featuring a black eye patch, blue hat wearing character with each individually wrapped piece? A: Bazooka bubble gum
Q: “Sometimes you feel like a nut / Sometimes you don’t /Almond Joy’s got nuts,” who don’t? A: Mounds
Q: Consisting of a metal bob, or ring, and a strike plate, what ornamental door furniture is used in place of a door bell? A: Door knocker
Q: What Rocky Mountains range forms part of the border between Idaho and Wyoming, and created the valley known as Jackson Hole? A: Tetons
Q: Futurama chef Elzar is a parody of what celebrity chef, whose catchphrases include “kick it up a notch” and “BAM!”? A: Emeril Lagasse
Q: Formerly used in navigation, and now a tool used in surveying, a theodolite is used to measure what? A: Angles
Q: Which East Coast body of water has given its name to a breed of retriever? A: Chesapeake Bay
Q: Played by Paul Marcarelli, the Verizon test man would end each advertisement by picking up a phone and asking what question? A: Can you hear me now?
Q: Spelunking is the recreational pastime of exploring what? A: Caves
Q: What is the name of the 6 year-old star of the TLC series Here Comes Honey Boo? A: Alana
Q: Prohibition era gangster Al Capone was convicted of what crime on Oct 17, 1931, and subsequent sentenced to 11 years in federal prison? A: Tax evasion
Q: Known as the Peace Garden State or the Roughrider State, what was the 39th state to join the Union on November 2, 1889? A: North Dakota
Q: What is the general classification for trees that lose their leaves every autumn? A: Deciduous
Q: "Om nom nom nom" is one of the favorite phrases of which Sesame Street character, known for his voracious appetite? A: Cookie Monster
Q: A member of the family Characidae, the omnivorous freshwater fish known as the piranha is native to the waters of which continent? A: South America
Q: First introduced by the Peter Paul Company in 1936, what candy bar consists of a coconut center and two almonds enrobed in a layer of milk chocolate? A: Almond Joy
Q: On October 18, 1867, the US took possession of Alaska, following its purchase from what country? A: Russia
Q: October 20, 1944, saw General Douglas MacArthur fulfill his famous "I shall return" promise when he landed where? A: Philippines
Q: What famous brand of shortening gets its name from the phrase crystallized cottonseed oil? A: Crisco
Q: Although he pines for the little red haired girl, which Peanuts character, who has an October birthday, has a crush on Charlie Brown? A: Peppermint Patty
Q: A cultural, retail, manufacturing, health care, and educational hub for the region, what is the most populous city in all of North Dakota? A: Fargo
Q: Although rarely used, what is the internet top-level domain for America? A: .us
Q: What super hero, born Steve Rogers, wields a shield made of vibranium alloy? A: Captain America
Q: "More saving. More doing." is the current advertising slogan for what home improvement behemoth? A: The Home Depot
Q: What is the nickname for the sports teams from Western Washington University, the pride of Bellingham? A: Vikings
Q: What is the name for the common alloy of silver that consists of 92.5% by mass of silver and 7.5% by mass of other metals, usually copper? A: Sterling silver
Q: Describing a verb used as a noun, a gerund must end in what letters? A: ING
Q: Now owned by Kellogg, Wally Amos started the Famous Amos company in 1975 to produce what? A: Chocolate Chip Cookies
Q: Old Ironsides, so called because cannon balls seemed to bounce off her sides, is the nickname for what famous frigate, launched on Oct 21, 1797? A: USS Constitution
Q: October 21, 1833 saw the birth of what Swedish chemist, engineer, and inventor, responsible for creating dynamite? A: Alfred Nobel
Q: The leading agricultural machinery manufacture in the world, which company uses a distinctive shade of bright green paint with yellow trim for its' products? A: John Deere
Q: What is the name of the sugar found in milk? A: Lactose
Q: Oct 21, 1797 saw the launch of what famous frigate, the world's oldest commissioned warship, in Boston Harbor? A: USS Constitution
Q: Although the awards ceremony is not until December, the winners of the Nobel prizes have been announced. The US has had the most number of recipients with 325. Which country ranks second with 115? A: UK
Q: What American boxer, who celebrated his birthday on Monday, is the first in history to win 5 world titles in 5 different weight classes, and was nicknamed The Motor City Cobra or The Hitman? A: Thomas Hearns
Q: What English poet, founder of the Romantic Movement (along with William Wordsworth), wrote such works as Kubla Khan and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner? A: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Q: Knitting uses needles. What does crochet use? A: Hooks
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who's pocket did Kitty Fisher find? A: Lucy Locket
Q: The surveying for the Mason-Dixon line was complete on Oct 18, 1767. Which two states does the line separate? A: Maryland and Pennsylvania
Q: What male singing voice lies between bass and tenor? A: Baritone
Q: How many sides does a rhombus have? A: 4
Q: What's missing: Woods, putters, chippers A: Irons
Q: Crenshaw, crane, musk, horned, and honeydew are all types of what? A: Melons
Q: First introduced by the Peter Paul Company in 1929, what candy bar consists of a coconut center surrounded by luscious chocolate? A: Mounds
Q: "I Like Ike" was the campaign slogan for what eventual US president? A: Eisenhower
Q: Usually made of wood or plastic, what is the name for the tool which billiard players use to organize their balls at the beginning of a game? A: Rack
Q: Officially designated the M9, what was the unofficial name of the shoulder fired rocket deployed by US soldiers during WWII? A: Bazooka
Q: Oct 20, 1977 saw a plane crash that killed Ronnie Van Zant, Steve Gaines, Cassie Gaines, Dean Kilpatrick and the pilot and co-pilot, ripping the heart out of what Southern band? A: Lynyrd Skynyrd
Q: What walks down stairs, alone or in pairs, and makes a slinkity sound? A spring, a spring, a marvelous thing! Everyone knows it's? A: Slinky
Q: Sunday marks the anniversary of the introduction of the game-changing IPod. In what year was it introduced? A: 2001
Q: With a length of up to 10 feet, what name is given to the largest of concert pianos? A: Grand Piano
Q: A viscous byproduct from its manufacture, what is the syrup drained from raw sugar called? A: Molasses
Q: Who, or what, would you typically find inside a Habitrail? A: Mice or hamsters
Q: Richard Francis Burton, who died the 20th of Oct, 1890, first translated Mallanaga Vatsyayana's instructive work in 1884 from its' native Sanskrit. What was the title of this book? A: Kama Sutra
Q: In basketball it's called a tip off, while football has a kick off. What do they call the method to begin play in ice hockey? A: Face off
Q: Oct 24, 1964 saw Northern Rhodesia gained independence from the United Kingdom and promptly changed its' name. By what name do we now know it? A: Zambia
Q: Although debunked as an urban legend, what model of Chevrolet car supposedly would not sell in Spanish speaking countries because the name of the car means “won’t run” in Spanish? A: Nova
Q: After 21 years on the PBS, what wood working show, hosted by master craftsman Norm Abrams, is going off the air? A: The New Yankee Workshop
Q: During WWII, General Douglas MacArthur famously declared “I shall” what, which he did on Oct 20, 1944? A: Return
Q: If a dish is described as ‘Mornay’ what is it served with? A: Cheese Sauce
Q: What star of the NBC sitcom Cheers was later the focus of the Showtime TV series Fat Actress? A: Kirstie Alley
Q: Oct 23 is the anniversary of the release of the first iPod from Apple. What year was it? A: 2001
Q: Which NFL team plays its games in the newest stadium in the NFL, opening just this year? A: The Cowboys
Q: Due to his small stature and looks, 1930s murder and bank robber George Nelson was commonly known by what nickname? A: Baby Face
Q: Citizens of Mexico know it as Rio Bravo del Norte. What do we call the 4th longest river system in the US? A: Rio Grande
Q: Henry Wells and William Fargo, before they got into banking, made their mark on the world operating what service in the west in the 1850s? A: Stagecoach
Q: What was the name of the legendary, and as of yet undiscovered, city of gold which inspired the Spanish conquest of half of the Americas? A: El Dorado
Q: Athos, Porthos, and Aramis are collectively known as whom? A: The Three Musketeers
Q: Everyone's favorite childhood book, Where the Wild Things Are, saw the movie version dominate the box office last weekend. What is the name of the main protagonist in the book? A: Max
Q: What famous TV family got their start with short vignettes on the variety show, The Tracey Ullman Show? A: The Simpsons
Q: With Halifax as its capital, what Canadian provinces' name literally translates as New Scotland? A: Nova Scotia
Q: October 26th, 1881, was the famous shootout at the OK Corral. In what Arizona town was it located? A: Tombstone, Az
Q: Which Peanuts character waits up every Halloween night for a visit from the Great Pumpkin? A: Linus
Q: Who penned the classic mystery novel And Then There Were None? A: Agatha Christie
Q: What is the main alcoholic ingredient in the cocktail known as a zombie? A: Rum
Q: Who wrote the novel It, which sees Derry, Maine terrorized at 28 year intervals by a entity that calls itself "Pennywise the Dancing Clown? A: Stephen King
Q: October 25, 1957 was the birthday of actress and comedian Nancy Cartwright. What TV character is she best know for? A: Bart Simpson
Q: Monster Charles Manson carved an X into his forehead for his trial in 1970. After getting bored with it, what did he transform it into? A: A swastika
Q: What is the name of the scrawny, superstitious schoolmaster who is pursued by the Headless Horseman in the Washington Irving story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"? A: Ichabod Crane
Q: October 30, 1938 saw Orson Wells induce widespread public panic with his radio broadcast of what HG Wells classic? A: War of the Worlds
Q: What Rudyard Kipling story, later made into a movie staring Sean Connery and Michael Caine, tells the story of two British adventurers in India who set off to become the rules of Kafiristan? A: The Man Who Would Be King
Q: Which hands-free children's Halloween party game began as contest to see who would be the first to marry in a new year? A: Bobbing for apples
Q: According to legend, Henry Ford famously stated "Any customer can have a car painted any color that he wants so long as" what? A: It is black
Q: With over 491 billion sold, what is the best selling cookie in America? A: Oreo
Q: What color is the tip on a standard piece of candy corn? A: White
Q: What WWII fighter ace went on to become the first human to travel faster than the speed of sound when he piloted the Bell X-1, nicknamed Glamorous Glennis, past Mach 1? A: Chuck Yeager
Q: What product is advertised with the slogan When it rains, it pours? A: Morton's Salt
Q: The Treehouse of Horror episodes are the Halloween specials of what long-running TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: Shepard Faireys Barack Obama poster, which has been in the news of late because of copyright issues, began life sporting a word other than hope. What was it? A: Progress
Q: We know (and love) Shrek from his many movies. What type of mythical creature is he? A: An ogre
Q: According to the classic poem The Raven, what is the name of the lost love that the unnamed narrator is trying to forget? A: Lenore
Q: October 26, 1972, saw the death of Igor Sikorsky, the man responsible for what mode of transport? A: The helicopter
Q: What religious holiday immediately follows Halloween? A: All Saints day
Q: On Oct 28, 1919, the United States Congress shat upon the American people by passing the Volstead Act, which lead the way to what 14 year period of darkness and despair? A: Prohibition
Q: What is the only venomous lizard native to the United States? A: Gila Monster
Q: Played by Lee Majors, Steve Austin, astronaut, A man barely alive, becomes who? A: The Six Million Dollar Man
Q: In the Star Wars universe, what rank falls between Padawan and Jedi Master? A: Jedi Knight
Q: 21 October, 1833 saw the birth of Swedish scientist Alfred Nobel, who amassed his considerable fortune following his invention of what? A: Dynamite
Q: What band worried that “You Shook Me All Night Long” before offering themselves as “Guns For Hire” which resulted in a “Touch Too Much” but were finally satisfied with “Moneytalks”? A: AC/DC
Q: Used in place of a net, what is the name for the pole with a sharp hook on the end of it used to boat large fish? A: Gaff
Q: As part of a purification ritual, what is it that sumo wrestlers throw in the ring before they engage in combat? A: Salt
Q: What was the name of the Scottish clan featured in the TV show and movies Highlander? A: MacLeod
Q: Oct 26, 1881 saw the famous Gunfight at the O.K. Corral, which pitted the Earps and Doc Holliday against the Clanton and McLaury brothers, in what famous Old West town? A: Tombstone, Arizona Territory
Q: Having originated in Germany, what is the name of the dog breed that competes in the eponymous wiener dog races? A: Dachshund
Q: What large hospitality chain owns and operates the mid-priced Courtyard hotel chain? A: Marriott
Q: Name the 2004 movie from its’ IMDB plot summary: “A hardened trainer/manager works with a determined woman in her attempt to establish herself as a boxer.” A: Million Dollar Baby
Q: The Pips where the backing singers for what “Empress of Soul”? A: Gladys Knight
Q: October 27, 1858 saw the birth of what total badass, who spent time as New York City Police Commissioner, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, 33rd Governor of New York, and 25th Vice President of the US, before going on to a few other impressive jobs? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Valance, fitted and flat are all types of what? A: Sheets
Q: What is the name for money paid out to shareholders of a company out of the corporate profits, based on the number of owned shares? A: Dividend
Q: Book Stieg Larsson – The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo and The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets’ Nest A: The Girl Who Played with Fire
Q: The Maine Coon is a breed of what popular pet? A: Cat
Q: Hyundai, LG, Kia, and Samsung are all companies based in what country? A: South Korea
Q: In the human body, what is the name for the muscle that covers the shoulder? A: Deltoid
Q: What is the name for the affluent district in southwest Seoul, Korea, which boasts the highest land values in the entire country? A: Gangnam
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as "you should have the body" is taken to mean a legal action which requires a person under arrest to be brought before a judge. A: Habeas corpus
Q: The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral pitted the Earps against the Clantons. In what territorial city did the gunfight take place? A: Tombstone, Az
Q: Immortalized in an 1854 poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, the Charge of the Light Brigade, a military disaster for the English, occurred during what 1854 war? A: Crimean War
Q: A mere 2,134 feet shorter than Mt. Rainier, what is the second tallest peak in Washington? A: Mt Adams
Q: A group of producers acting together to fix prices are known as what? A: Cartel
Q: From the Latin for Kalium, what element, with an atomic number of 19, uses the symbol K? A: Potassium
Q: What classic American family featured a disembodied hand, named Thing, a manservant named Lurch, and a large ball of hair known as Cousin Itt? A: The Addams Family
Q: Which legendary royal figure, the son of Uther Pendragon, was ably assisted by the wizard Merlin and rode a horse named Llamrei? A: King Arthur
Q: October 26, 1919 saw the birth of Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the last man to hold what title, as ruler of Iran? A: Shah
Q: Dale Carnegie's best-selling 1936 book is titled How to Win Friends and what People? A: Influence
Q: What can be a powered drink, a fish, and a highly decorated WWII US submarine? A: Tang
Q: On Oct 28, 1886, the rotund one himself, Grover Cleveland, officially dedicated what US Landmark? A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: October 25, 1957 was the birthday of actress and comedian Nancy Cartwright. What TV character is she best known for? A: Bart Simpson
Q: Bullwinkle J. Moose was the sidekick of which cartoon character? A: Rocky the Flying Squirrel
Q: Al, Peggy, Kelly, and Bud Bundy were the main characters in what long running FOX sitcom? A: Married...with children
Q: "Remember, remember the fifth of November" is a British nursery rhyme that commemorates what historical figure? A. Sir Francis Drake B. Guy Fawkes C. Henry VIII D. Oliver Cromwell A: Guy Fawkes
Q: Combining corned beef, sauerkraut, Swiss cheese and Thousand Island dressing and sticking it rye produces what kind of sandwich? A: A Reuben
Q: In what trick taking card game does a player score 1500 (vulnerable) or 1000 (Non-vulnerable) extra points for taking all of the tricks, an act known as a grand slam? A: Contract Bridge
Q: Now, I don't want to get off on a rant here, but which comedian, former SNL cast member, and MNF color man, was born on Nov 3, 1953? Of course, that's just my opinion. I could be wrong. A: Dennis Miller
Q: Nov 2, 1947 saw the first flight of the H4 Hercules, the flying boat with the largest wingspan ever produced, better known by what name? A: The Spruce Goose
Q: An ingredient in tonic water, what was the first drug that was used to successfully treat malaria? A. Nitrogen mustard B. Aspirin C. Licorice root D. Quinine A: Quinine
Q: What famed magician, born Erik Weisz in Budapest, Hungary, died on Oct 31, 1926 of peritonitis, secondary to a ruptured appendix? A: Harry Houdini
Q: Known as The Treasure State, what was the 41st state to join the Union, on Nov 8, 1889? A: Montana
Q: Also known as a fixed partial denture, what is the name for a dental restoration used to replace a missing tooth by permanently joining a missing tooth to adjacent teeth? A: Bridge
Q: In what city was the Motown record label founded? A: Detroit
Q: What animal was once called a camelopard because it was thought to be a cross between a camel and a leopard? A: Giraffe
Q: In one of the greatest upsets in presidential election history, Democratic incumbent Harry S. Truman bested what New York Governor for the 1948 presidential election? A: Thomas E. Dewey
Q: What can be a dental restoration, a Seattle hill, or headgear? A: Crown
Q: Held just outside Bridgeville, DE, Friday marks the start of the world championship in the art of throwing what for distance, using classes such as Air, Centrifugal, Catapult, Trebuchet, and Human Powered? A: Pumpkins
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who had a lamb whose fleece was white as snow? A: Mary
Q: As editor and chief of Metropolis newspaper, The Daily Planet, who was Superman's boss? A: Perry White
Q: November 6, 1861 saw the birth in Almonte, Ontario, of future YMCA director James Naismith, who is responsible for the creation of what popular sport? A: Basketball
Q: According to the proverb, One swallow does not make what? A: A summer
Q: November 3, 1979 saw the invasion of the US embassy in what country, with the result that 53 Americans were taken hostage for 444 days? A: Iran
Q: November is unofficially National Novel Writing Month, when people are encouraged to write a story of at least how many words? A: 50,000
Q: For a point each, name the 7 countries surrounding the Republic of Hungary. A: Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia
Q: A blocking maneuver, what is the fencing move that attempts to deflect or block an incoming attack? A: Parry
Q: November 4, 1861, saw the opening of the Territorial University, now ranked #16 in the world's top universities, according to the Academic Ranking of World Universities, which is now better known as what? A: University of Washington
Q: Google was founded by fellow Stanford students Sergey Brin and whom, who ranked as the 11th richest man in America last year? A: Larry Page
Q: What's missing: The Gathering Storm, The Grand Alliance, The Hinge of Fate, Closing the Ring, Triumph and Tragedy A: Their Finest Hour
Q: What cocktail consists of 5 parts Rye Whiskey, 2 parts Sweet Red Vermouth, a dash of Angostura Bitters, and garnished with a Maraschino Cherry? A: Manhattan
Q: Known as Little Miss Sure Shot, what member of Buffalo Bills Wild West show was an outstanding sharpshooter who continued to set records almost up to her death on November 3, 1926? A: Annie Oakley
Q: Whom did Muhammed Ali best in the famous Rumble in the Jungle, which took place in Kinsasha, Zaire? A: George Forman
Q: October 27, 1858 saw the birth of what totally bad assed US president, the 26th, who spent time as a South Dakota rancher before becoming assistant Secretary of the Navy in 1899? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: With a name that translates as gorilla whale, what mythical creature, who had his debut on Nov 3, 1954, has battled such enemies as King Ghidorah, Gigan, and Motrha? A: Godzilla
Q: What position did Merlin hold in King Arthur's court? A: Wizard
Q: Nov 7, 1940 saw the original Tacoma Narrows bridge take a little dip. What alliterative nickname was it given? A: Galloping Gertie
Q: The tomb of what Egyptian king, which later inspired a Top 20 hit by Steve Martin, was discovered by Howard Carter on Nov 4, 1922, in spite of the supposed curse? A: King Tut
Q: Due to various sulfur compounds, the ingestion of what green vegetable causes urine to take on a very distinctive aroma within 30 minutes of eating it? A: Asparagus
Q: What is the name of the documentary movie of the rehearsals for Michael Jackson's last tour, before his timely death, which is the highest grossing concert movie in history? A: This Is It
Q: What sleepy little Washington town is home to the characters in Twilight, that popular entry in the young-adult vampire-romance novel/movie genre? A: Forks
Q: What is the name for a triangle that has all three sides of equal length? A: Equilateral
Q: That famous American folk hero, Paul Bunyan, traveled around with an ox of exceptional size and strength known as what? A: Babe the Blue Ox
Q: What is the only chess piece that can jump over other pieces? A: Knight
Q: Now that the US Mint has finished with the state quarters program, they are adding a few others in honor of 5 US territories and what/where? A: Washington D.C.
Q: What major US University (ranked the 16th best university in the world), which began life as the Territorial University, first opened it's doors on Nov 4, 1861? A: University of Washington
Q: What is the oldest, continuously published magazine in the United States, with its first issue hitting the stands on August 28, 1845? A: Scientific American
Q: Name the artist and title of this 1969 hit: "I thought I was The Bally table king. But I just handed my pin ball crown to him. Even on my favorite table He can beat my best. His disciples lead him in And he just does the rest." A: Pinball Wizard by The Who
Q: The fifth planet in the solar system, which planet is the largest? A: Jupiter
Q: Name the year: Falkland War begins with the Argentinean invasion; EPCOT opens at Disneyworld, The first Double Stuff Oreo is sold; Honda opens the first Japanese auto plant in the US; Michael Jackson releases Thriller; A: 1982
Q: KITT, standing for Knight Industries Two Thousand, is a Pontiac Trans Am controlled by a computer with artificial intelligence in what mid-1980s TV program? A: Knight Rider
Q: With the album cover being a parody of the Beatles Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, 1998s The Yellow Album is the second album of original songs from what long running TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: Founded on Nov 4, 1984 as PC's Limited, what Round Rock, Tx based PC manufacturer is the #2 computer seller in the US? A: Dell Computer
Q: What color are the stars on an official United States flag? A: White
Q: The artifacts from what famous tomb, discovered on Nov 4, 1922 by one Howard Carter, are currently on display at the Pacific Science Center? A: King Tut
Q: In the Marvel universe, what is the name of the physicist who becomes the Incredible Hulk? A: Dr. Bruce Banner
Q: What American photographer and environmentalist is best remembered for his black and white photos of the West, especially Yosemite National Park in the early half of the 20th century? A: Ansel Adams
Q: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a US federal agency, is headquartered in what U.S. city? A: Atlanta
Q: What can be a dressing, a language, and a condiment company? A: French
Q: Although current evidence suggests that he was a maltster, not a brewer, what Founding Father lends his name to a brand of beer? A: Samuel Adams
Q: November 6, 1860 saw the election of the first ever Republican president when who won the right to lead our great nation? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: The DynaTac 8000x, the first mobile produced, was created by what company? A: Motorola
Q: According to the common saying, what is nine-tenths of the law? A: Possession
Q: Which automobile company, which recently announced it was discontinuing the sale of cars in the US, makes a model called the Sidekick or Grand Vitara? A: Suzuki
Q: Beefsteak, plum, cherry, and grape are all types of what? A: Tomatoes
Q: As measured by a sphygmomanometer, what are the two components that make up a blood pressure measurement? A: Systolic and diastolic
Q: According to Charlie Daniels, what was the devil looking for when he went down to Georgia? A: A soul to steal
Q: The 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month saw the signing of the armistice that put an end to the violence of WWI in what year? A: 1918
Q: From the Latin for flints, what element, with the atomic number 14, uses the symbol SI? A: Silicon
Q: Ishmael is the only survivor of the Pequod, following a fateful encounter with whom? A: Moby Dick
Q: Junior Achievement was founded in 1919 with the goal of preparing high school students for a future in what? A: Business
Q: Now making a career as a pop singer and actress, who was the first African-American woman to win the Miss America crown, which she held for 10 months, before being forced to resign over the imminent publication of nude photos? A: Vanessa Williams
Q: Whole, Universal, and Term are all types of what? A: Life Insurance
Q: Chow Mein is a dish typically served over what? A: Fried noodles
Q: What country and western singer recently lost his lucrative gig singing the theme to Monday Night Football based on an ill-considered Hitler reference? A: Hank Williams, Jr.
Q: What famed boxer, nicknamed Smokin' Joe, was the beat Muhammed Ali in the famous Fight of the Century, but lost a battle against liver cancer earlier this week? A: Joe Frazier
Q: In anatomy, what is the flap of elastic cartilage that prevents food from going down the wrong tube? A: Epiglottis
Q: What is the only marsupial native to North America? A: Opossum
Q: Born in November, 1431, Vlad III, Prince of Wallachia had a more common nickname, translating as Son of the Dragon, which inspired what Bram Stroker character? A: Dracula
Q: What long running comic strip character, created by Chester Gould, is described as a hard-hitting, fast-shooting and intelligent police detective with a love of trench coats and fedoras? A: Dick Tracy
Q: What famed playwright, who seemed to have earned his most famous nickname due to his thick, southern drawl, won 2 Pulitzer prizes for A Streetcar Named Desire and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof? A: Tenessee Williams
Q: Tun Tavern, Philadelphia is considered the official birthplace of which US armed forces branch, when they held their first recruitment drive there in 1775 following a Continental Congress mandate? A: United States Marine Corp
Q: With examples such as Panama and Suez, what is the name for a narrow strip of land connecting two larger land areas with water on each side? A: Isthmus
Q: Friday is Veterans Day, first proclaimed as a way to honor those US citizens who participated in what war? A: World War I
Q: The bestselling novels The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, The Girl Who Played with Fire, The Girl Who Kicked the Hornets' Nest, by the late Steig Larsson, are popularly known by what name, taken from the place of employment of the main protagonist? A: Millennium series
Q: Introduced in 1823, which president lent his name to a doctrine declaring that Europe would no longer be allowed to interfere with the affairs of the Americas? A: James Monroe
Q: Orange Pekoe is a variety of what beverage? A: Tea
Q: What was the name for the tax protest that ran from 1791-1794 staged by western Pennsylvanian farmers protesting a federal tax on liquor and distilled beverages? A: Whiskey Rebellion
Q: What is it called in basketball when the player with the ball illegally moves one or both feet, usually by moving his pivot foot or taking too many steps without dribbling? A: Traveling
Q: What former representative from the state of Wyoming, White House Chief of Staff, and Secretary of Defense, seemed to attain the maximum amount of controversy as his role as Vice President? A: Dick Cheney
Q: According to the Jim Croce song, who was the baddest man in the whole damn town? A: Bad, Bad Leroy Brown
Q: What company was (more or less) responsible for the creation of the first silicon transistor, first integrated circuit, the first microprocessor, and a host of other firsts? A: Texas Instruments
Q: Much maligned for his handling of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which Tony was the CEO for BP until October 1, 2010? A: Hayward
Q: What long running children's TV series, produced by The Children's Television Workshop, was first aired on Nov 10, 1969 and has broadcast 4212 shows to date? A: Sesame Street
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, Monday's child is full of grace. Which child is loving and giving? A: Fridays
Q: For what reason did Old West legend John Henry "Doc" Holliday, friends with Wyatt and Virgil Earp, get his nickname? A: He was a dentist
Q: The classic Muffuletta sandwich, filled with capicola, salami, provolone cheese and olive salad, originated in what southern U.S. city? A: New Orleans
Q: Robert Ludlum authored a series of best selling books featuring what retrograde amnesia stricken assassin? A: Jason Bourne
Q: November 7, 1970 saw the birth of Morgan Spurlock, director of the "documentary" Super Size Me, a film about his 30 day diet of food from what fast food restaurant? A: McDonalds
Q: Born on November 10, 1919, Mikhail Kalashnikov saw his most famous creation, the AK-47, introduced into service in what year? A: 1947
Q: Which cult/religion was formed by science-fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard? A: Scientology
Q: A professional mining engineer, who was the President of the US at the start of the Great Depression? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: In the Parker Brothers game Pit, what type of items are featured on the cards that are traded during play? A: Commodities
Q: The time when supernatural creatures, such as witches, demons and ghosts are thought to be at their most powerful, what hour is known as the witching hour? A: Midnight
Q: Played by Jack Webb for the 14 year run of the series, who wore badge #714 on the TV show Dragnet? A: Sgt Joe Friday
Q: November 9, 1967 saw the debut of what iconic magazine, founded by Jann Wenner, which famously provided a roach clip with every paid subscription? A: Rolling Stone
Q: What animated film character said “I’m not bad, I’m just drawn that way”? A: Jessica Rabbit
Q: What boxer, nicknamed Boom Boom, faced off against Duk Koo Kim in 1982, earning the TKO in the 14th round, and it ended with Kim lapsing into a coma before dying 4 days later? A: Ray Mancini
Q: I Can't Believe I Ate the Whole Thing was the advertising slogan for what company? A: Alka-Seltzer
Q: Useful while pondering the intricacies of a case, what musical instrument is Sherlock Holmes known to play? A: Violin
Q: Dogs have sweat glands in their nose and where else? A: Paws
Q: Today is Veterans Day. It was originally begun to honor veterans of which war? A: W.W. I
Q: What is the horse race betting term for picking the first and second place finishers in a race in the correct order? A: Exacta
Q: Known mostly for his invention of the mobile, what American artist, born in 1898, has an exhibit at the Seattle Art Museum through April, 2010? A: Alexander Calder
Q: What 1985 album, by the British rock group Dire Straits, was the first to sell a million copies in CD format? A: Brothers in Arms
Q: Name the year: Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi of Iran is booted; the Hood Canal bridge sinks; Jimmy Carter is attacked by the infamous Swamp Rabbit; The Sonics won their only championship; Iran takes 53 members of the US Embassy hostage for 444 days; Star Trek: The Motion Picture is released A: 1979
Q: Voiced by Phil Hartman, before his untimely death, Lionel Hutz is the hapless lawyer on what TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: What has been on the air longer? Jeopardy? Or Wheel of Fortune? A: Jeopardy
Q: What is the middle name of Austin Powers, International Man of Mystery? A: Danger
Q: D.C. sniper John Allen Muhammad was executed last night for his role in terrorizing the nation's capital in October 2002. In what state was he executed? A: Virginia
Q: The logo for Mack Trucks features what animal? A: Bulldog
Q: Which studio owns the rights to Bugs Bunny? A: Warner Bros
Q: Which two elements make up brass? A: Copper and Zinc
Q: Nov 11, 1889 saw which state admitted to the union as the 42nd state? A: Washington
Q: What is tracked by the Web site Where's George? A: Money
Q: Who is the current vice president of the United States? A: Joe Biden
Q: Niagara Falls, one of the more popular tourist destinations in North America, consists of Horseshoe Falls and what? A: American Falls
Q: In what reality TV show, recently won by Jordan Lloyd, features group of people live together in a large house, isolated from the outside world but continuously watched by television cameras? A: Big Brother
Q: Opening in 1995, the Rock and Roll hall of fame is located in what major U.S. city? A: Cleveland, Ohio
Q: How many herbs and spices make up the Colonels secret recipe? A: 11
Q: According to the proverb, what is said to be the mother of invention? A: Necessity
Q: What is the name of the video game that is home to Ralph in the Disney movie Wreck-it Ralph? A: Fix-It Felix, Jr
Q: Who led the group of pioneers that left Cherry Grove, Il on April 10, 1851 and made land at Alki point on Nov 13, founding the city of Seattle? A: Arthur Denny
Q: Columbus, Ohio resident Dave Thomas opened the first of what restaurant chain on November 15, 1969? A: Wendys
Q: What Latin phrase, which translates as always faithful, is best recognized as the motto of the US Marine Corp? A: Semper fidelis
Q: Which country is home to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay? A: Cuba
Q: A wah-wah pedal is attached to what instrument in order alter the tone to make it mimic a human voice? A: Guitar
Q: Which animal answers the question "How many licks does it take to get to the Tootsie Roll center of a Tootsie Pop?" A: Owl
Q: The famous sign on Harry S Truman’s desk read what on the front, while the back said “I’m from Missouri”? A: The buck stops here
Q: What did noted asshat Charles Manson carve into his forehead when he got bored with the x? A: Swastika
Q: What celebrity TV chef, who currently hosts Iron Chef America, got his start as the genius behind the show Good Eats!, which ran for 14 season? A: Alton Brown
Q: Jacob Black, Edward Cullen, and Bella Swan are characters in what fictional book series? A: Twilight
Q: 1965 saw the debut of Poppin Fresh, who along with his extended family Poppie Fresh, GrandPopper and GranMommer, Biscuit, Flapjack, Popper, Bun-Bun, and Rollie, is the advertising mascot for what company? A: Pillsbury
Q: What is the common name for your coccyx? A: Tailbone
Q: Mountain, touring, and BMX are all types of what? A: Bicycles
Q: Originating in China, a sampan is a type of what? A: Boat
Q: Representing the date of admission to the Union, what is the number on the flag of the great State of Washington? A: 1889
Q: What is the name for sugar containing between 3.5% and 6.5% molasses? A: Brown Sugar
Q: What is the tallest mountain on the African continent? A: Mt Kilimanjaro
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries that share a physical border with the Democratic Republic of Nepal. A: China and India
Q: Today is World Diabetes day, designed to bring awareness of the disease, which is caused by a shortage of what hormone? A: Insulin
Q: In a traditional suit of armor, where on the body was a greave worn? A: Leg
Q: Miso, tofu, and shoyu all come from what legume? A: Soybean
Q: Which part of the body does a reflexologist primarily deal with? A: The Feet
Q: Awake and The Watchtower are two magazines distributed by what religious group in the door-to-door ministries business? A: Jehovah's Witness
Q: Monday marked the birth of what total asshat, the "pastor" behind Topeka, KS based Westboro Baptist Church? A: Fred Phelps, Sr
Q: An ad campaign from PETA features celebrities sans clothing stating “I’d Rather Go Naked than” what? A: Wear Fur
Q: Based on his nickname, what is the name of the next installment of the Superman movie series, staring Henry Cavill, slated to hit the theaters next year? A: Man of Steel
Q: Toasted Marshmallow, Pina Colada, Crushed Pineapple and Buttered Popcorn are among the 50 official flavors of what candy? A: Jelly Belly
Q: What candy company is responsible for M&Ms, Milky Way, Snickers, and Twix bars, among others? A: Mars
Q: Sonic, the mascot for Sega corporation, is what type of animal? A: Hedgehog
Q: From the Persian for "yellow orpiment", what element, with an atomic number of 33, uses the symbol As? A: Arsenic
Q: Which U.S. President was examined in the 2000 TV special Sally Hemings: An American Scandal? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: A hero to the Swiss, William Tell supposedly shot what from the head of his son in a feat of crossbow marksmanship? A: An apple
Q: Known as The Gem State, what was the 43rd state to join the Union on Jul 3, 1890? A: Idaho
Q: Acorn, spaghetti, and butternut are all types of what? A: Squash
Q: The winner of Sundays matches between the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and Winnipeg Blue Bombers and Edmonton Eskimos and BC Lions will meet on Nov 27 in Vancouver to vie for what trophy? A: Grey Cup
Q: Appointed by G. W. Bush in 2005, who is the current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? A: John Roberts
Q: What cocktail, first written about in 1876, consists of gin, lemon juice, sugar, and carbonated water, and is served in a namesake glass? A: Tom Collins
Q: Operated jointly by the Army and Air Force, what is the name for the large military base just south of Tacoma? A: Joint Base Lewis-McChord
Q: Which cereal grain tails only corn and wheat in worldwide production? A: Rice
Q: Hailing from Hannibal, Mo, and portrayed by Harry Morgan, who lead the company of screwball doctors for 7 seasons on the hit TV series M*A*S*H? A: Col. Sherman T. Potter
Q: Which chain of ice-cream parlors, the world's largest, is known for their little pink spoons which are used to offer a taste of any of the available flavors? A: Baskin-Robbins
Q: Which animated Disney classic features a mandrill named Rafiki, a warthog named Pumbaa, and Timon the meerkat? A: The Lion King
Q: What is the name of alloy that consists mostly of iron and has a carbon content between 0.2% and 2.1% by weight? A: Steel
Q: What can be a part of the foot, a dance, or a manufacturer of canning supplies? A: Ball
Q: The name of what popular German rye sandwich bread translates as “devil’s fart”? A: Pumpernickel
Q: Nov 15, 1969 saw founder Dave Thomas open the first of what chain restaurants, now the world's third largest, in Columbus, OH? A: Wendy's
Q: FIFA is an international organization governing what sport? A: Soccer
Q: What boxer, ranked number 8 on The Ring's list of greatest punchers, was nicknamed The Manassa Mauler or Kid Blackie, during his 7 years of holding the World Heavyweight title, starting in 1919? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: What "tastes so good, cats ask for it by name"? A: Meow Mix
Q: What is the name of the street, in the fictional town of Fairview, where TV's Desperate Housewives live? A: Wisteria Lane
Q: Which Hall of Fame is located in Cleveland, OH? A: Rock and Roll
Q: November 18, 1869 saw the opening of what lockless waterway, which connects Port Said to Port Tawfik? A: The Suez Canal
Q: Which wood is traditionally used to make the black keys on a piano? A: Ebony
Q: What is the chosen profession of serial comic hero Tintin? A: Reporter
Q: November 18, 1928 saw the introduction of first fully synchronized sound cartoon, Steamboat Willie, which featured what iconic cartoon character? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which of the 6 simple machines requires the use of a fulcrum? A: Lever
Q: The State Department of Health recently announced the top baby names for the year 2009. Isabella was the top girls name. What named topped the list for boys? A: Alexander
Q: Draining into the Atlantic, what is the largest river in the world BY VOLUME, exceeding the next 8 rivers combined? A: Amazon
Q: With a top wind speed of 380 mph, the Fujita scale is used to measure what? A: Tornados
Q: According to the proverb, in the kingdom of the blind, the one eyed man is what? A: King
Q: Crossing the Rubicon can either be considered passing the point of no return or walking in front of a Jeep. In what country does one find the Rubicon River? A: Italy
Q: Which Wizard of Oz character was searching for brains? A: Scarecrow
Q: What is the more common name for toxicodendron radicans, a poisonous vine known for its production of urushiol (oo-roo-shee-awl), a substance that causes an itching rash in most people who touch it? A: Poison Ivy
Q: What Egyptian pharaoh was immortalized in a 1978 song by Steve Martin and the Toot Uncommons? A: King Tut
Q: What playing card was introduced by US players in the 1860's as the ultimate trump card (the best bower) in the game of Euchre? A: Joker
Q: What video rental store, with over 5000 locations worldwide, recently announced their bankruptcy, after getting slaughtered in the marketplace by Redbox and Netflix? A: Blockbuster
Q: What sadly short lived sci fi show featured crewmembers Wash, Kaylee, and Jayne, among others, aboard the spaceship Serenity? A: Firefly
Q: In what nursery rhyme was the main character born on Monday, Christened on Tues, Married on Wed, Took ill on Thurs, Grew Worse on Fri, Died on Sat, and was buried on Sun? A: Solomon Grundy
Q: What Japanese automaker became the first to open a U.S. plant when they began producing cars in a facility in Marysville, Ohio, in November 1982? A: Honda
Q: The Simpsons is the longest running animated series in TV history. What show that aired on Fox is the second longest? A: King of the Hill
Q: What drink consists of 7 parts tequila, 4 parts cointreau or triple sec, and 3 parts lemon or lime juice? A: Margarita
Q: Springform, tube, and roasting are all types of what? A: Pans
Q: What frozen food item is Mama Celeste associated with? A: Pizza
Q: What St. Louis, MO based cereal company produces Fruity Pebbles, Grape Nuts, Honey Bunches of Oats, and Raisin Bran, among many, many others? A: Post
Q: Nov 20, 1945 saw the start of the trials in what German city in which 24 high ranking Nazis were indicted for participation in a common plan or conspiracy for the accomplishment of a crime against peace, planning, initiating and waging wars of aggression and other crimes against peace , war crimes, and crimes against humanity? A: Nuremberg
Q: Portrayed in a Seinfeld episode and a John Travolta movie, what colloquialism is used to describe a person who must live in a microbiologically sterile environment for medical reasons? A: Bubble Boy
Q: Sunday marked the birthday of what noted French/American mathmetician, who was known as the father of fractal geometry? A: Benoit Mandelbrot
Q: Known as the Equality State, what was the 44th state to join the Union on Jul 10, 1890? A: Wyoming
Q: Nov 22, 1995 saw the theatrical release of one of the top grossing films of that year, the first feature film to be made entirely with CGI? A: Toy Story
Q: The brother of which U.S. president was the commercial spokesman for Billy Beer? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: With examples such as tulip, South Sea company, and .com, what is the name for the economic condition characterized by "trade in high volumes at prices that are considerably at variance with intrinsic values"? A: Bubble
Q: What can be a tool used in gold mining, a Greek god, and a prefix meaning all? A: Pan
Q: Saturday marks the 104 gridiron meeting between UW and WSU, when this years Apple Cup takes place at what stadium? A: CenturyLink Field
Q: What long running TV sci-fi series had it's debut on Nov 23, 1963 and ran until 1989, and then returned in 2006? A: Doctor Who
Q: "Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds" is often, and erronously, thought to be the motto of what US government agency? A: Post Office
Q: Nov 21, 1980 answered the question "Who shot J.R.?", when the season premiere of what long running TV drama was shown? A: Dallas
Q: For a point each, name the country surrounding the Republic of The Gambia. A: Senegal
Q: Named for the Greek word for stone, what element, with an atomic number of 3, uses the symbol Li? A: Lithium
Q: “I yam what I yam, and that’s all what I yam” was the motto of what popular cartoon character? A: Popeye
Q: Which Hangover star did People magazine recently name their Sexiest Man of the Year for 2011? A: Bradley Cooper
Q: What is the name of the product, sold in a pink canister similar to a chewing tobacco tin, was advertised with the slogan “it’s six feet of bubble gum for you, not them”? A: Bubble Tape
Q: What product is advertised with the slogan "Life, liberty, and the Pursuit"? A: Cadillac
Q: What is the longest mountain chain in North America? A: Rockies
Q: Name the artist and the song title: We’re leaving together But still it’s farewell And maybe we’ll come back To earth, who can tell? I guess there is no one to blame We’re leaving ground Will things ever be the same again? A: Europe, The Final Countdown
Q: Who's missing: Dean Martin, Sammy Davis, Jr, Peter Lawford, Joey Bishop A: Frank Sinatra
Q: Nov 24, 1963 saw the death of reputed JFK assassin Lee Harvey Oswald at the hands of which Dallas night club owner? A: Jack Ruby
Q: How old was Michael Jackson when he died? A: 50
Q: What NFL team calls Reliant Stadium home? A: Houston Texans
Q: Nov 24, 1859 saw the first edition of On The Origin of Species, under the authorship of who? A: Charles Darwin
Q: The Caruncle, Snood, and Wattle can all be found where? A: The head of a turkey
Q: Originally started in 1956 by Pauline Phillips, what advice column is now written by her daughter, Jeanne Phillips? A: Dear Abby
Q: Featuring William Hartnell in the title role, Nov 23, 1963 saw the debut of what BBC sci-fi series, the world's longest running series in that genre? A: Doctor Who
Q: What fictional boxer, nicknamed The Italian Stallion, ended with a career record of 57-23-1? A: Rocky Balboa
Q: What cartoonist drew Calvin and Hobbes from 1985 to 1995? A: Bill Watterson
Q: What Disney Channel star, and favorite of everyone here tonight, was born on Nov 23, 1992 with the first names Destiny Hope? A: Miley Cyrus
Q: First awarded on Feb 22, 1932, what military decoration is awarded to those who have been wounded or killed while serving on or after April 5, 1917 with the U.S. military? A: Purple Heart
Q: The 2009 Major League Soccer title game, pitting Real Salt Lake against the Los Angeles Galaxy, was hosted in what US city this year? A: Seattle
Q: Saturday is the annual football game between UW and WSU. For what do they compete? A: The Apple Cup
Q: What movie, a staple of the midnight circuit, is the longest running theatrical release in film history, having first been released on September 26, 1975? A: Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: Name the year: Pixar Animation opens it's doors; Space Shuttle Challenger disintegrates 73 seconds after launch; Geraldo Rivera opens Al Capone's secret vault on TV; The Statue of Liberty is reopened; Fox Broadcasting is born; A: 1986
Q: Nov 25, 1867 saw Alfred Nobel patent what famous invention that led to the immense fortune that allowed him to endow the various prizes that bear his name? A: Dynamite
Q: What part of the turkey is saved, dried, and ceremoniously snapped as part of a good luck custom? A: Wishbone
Q: In Daniel Defoe's novel Robinson Crusoe, what does the title character name the native he befriends? A: Friday
Q: Boris Badenov, Natasha Fatale, and Fearless Leader are routinely thwarted in their various nefarious plots by what famous duo? A: Rocky the Flying Squirrel and Bullwinkle the Moose
Q: November 22, 1955 saw the untimely death of Shemp Howard. With what group is he more famously linked? A: The Three Stooges
Q: Malibu Stacy is the Barbie clone as featured on what TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: Paul Shaffer, Canadian and bandleader, was born on Nov 28, 1949. On which entertainers show does he provide the music? A: The Late Show with David Letterman
Q: Father and son Baby Doc Duvalier and Papa Doc Duvalier spent 30 years as leaders of which country? A: Haiti
Q: What noted statesman once expressed a preference for the turkey instead of the bald eagle as the national bird of the U.S.? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: First published on November 24, 1859, what book had the alternate title the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life? A: On The Origin of Species
Q: Bill Bixby starred as the human Dr. Bruce Banner in the 1970's TV series The Incredible Hulk. Which former Mr. Universe portrayed the Hulk in that very same series? A: Lou Ferrigno
Q: Dan (D. B.) Cooper leapt from a 727 operated by what airline, disappearing into the inky dark with $200,000 cash, the only unsolved U.S. aircraft hijacking? A: Northwest
Q: A tip-off starts a basketball game and a kickoff begins football. What action begins a hockey match? A: Faceoff
Q: November 27, 1701 saw the birth of a Swedish astronomer, who proposed what temperature scale where in which water freezes at 0 degrees and boils at 100 degrees? A: Celsius
Q: Whos missing: Denver Nuggets, Utah Jazz, Portland Trail Blazers, Minnesota Timberwolves? A: Oklahoma City Thunder
Q: Is the sea horse a mammal, fish or mollusk? A: Fish
Q: What drink consists of 5 parts Vodka, 2 parts Coffee liqueur, and 3 parts fresh cream? A: White Russian
Q: In response to the crappy reputation High Fructose Corn Syrup has these days, the Corn Refiners Association has applied for permission to rename it to what? A: Corn Sugar
Q: According to the pangram, the quick what jumps over the lazy dog? A: brown fox
Q: “4 out of 5 dentists surveyed would recommend sugarless gum to their patients who chew gum.” was used to advertise what company’s product? A: Trident
Q: Broadcast on live TV, what Dallas nightclub owner shot and killed total asshat Lee Harvey Oswald? A: Jack Ruby
Q: According to the proverb every man for himself, and the Devil take what? A: the hindmost
Q: On November 22, 1986, which boxer became the youngest WBC Heavyweight champion, at age 20 years, 4 months, when he scored a TKO over Trevor Berbick in the second round? A: Mike Tyson
Q: Released on Nov 22, 1995, what Oscar nominated movie was the first feature-length film created completely using computer-generated imagery? A: Toy Story
Q: Mario Batali, Cat Cora, Bobby Flay, Masaharu Morimoto and Micael Symon compete on what show? A: Iron Chef: America
Q: Nov 27, 1942 saw the birth of what legendary musician, who Rolling Stoned named their top guitarist on their 100 greatest of all time list? A: Jimi Hendrix
Q: What is the name of the pawn shop featured in the hit History Channel show Pawn Stars? A: Gold & Silver Pawn Shop
Q: Known as the Beehive State, what was the 45th state to join the Union on January 4, 1896? A: Utah
Q: Sparking a 1970s TV show, which military branch conducted the Project Blue Book UFO study? A: Air Force
Q: What Washington city, incorporated on Nov 29, 1881, uses the motto Near Nature, Near Perfect? A: Spokane
Q: What bow-tie wearing TV host and comedian, who got his start on Almost Live!, is known as the Science Guy? A: Bill Nye
Q: What was the van that Scooby Doo and friends travelled around in called? A: The mystery Machine
Q: Nov 30, 1835 saw the birth of what famed American humorist and novelist, known for works such as The Prince and the Pauper and A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, along with some other famous works? A: Mark Twain
Q: Arboreal describes a creature which commonly lives in what? A: trees
Q: What brand of rum is advertised with the slogan To Life, Love, and Loot, and features a buccaneer? A: Captain Morgan
Q: Popularized in a speech by Winston Churchill, what was the popular name for the ideological and physical boundary between Western and Eastern Europe during the Cold War? A: Iron Curtain
Q: What school does Harry Potter attend? A: Hogwarts
Q: How many players per team are there in a game of beach volleyball? A: 2
Q: By assets and market capitalization, what is the largest bank in the US? A: JPMorgan Chase & Co
Q: On a traditional statue of the courtroom standard Lady Justice, she holds a set of scales in her left hand and what item in the other? A: Sword
Q: Not counting hybrid clubs, a standard golf club bag includes Woods, wedges, chippers, putters, and what? A: Irons
Q: Used to carry oxygen throughout your body, you create billions of new red blood cells every day. Where in your body are those red blood cells created? A: Bone marrow
Q: From the Latin ferrum, what element, with an atomic number 26, uses the symbol Fe? A: Iron
Q: Consisting of 20 quires of 25 sheets, the ream is a common retail unit of what product? A: Paper
Q: Using the word correctly, if something is 'decimated', by what percentage is it reduced? A: Ten percent
Q: What can be a plot, a projectile propellant, and a type of green tea? A: Gunpowder
Q: In what US city did seamstress Rosa Parks refuse to give up her seat on a bus to a white man, thereby getting arrested and starting a year long bus boycott? A: Montgomery, AL
Q: According to the song, who left Kenny Rogers with four hungry children and crops in the field? A: Lucille
Q: Who's missing: Carrie Bradshaw, Samantha Jones, Charlotte York A: Miranda Hobbes
Q: What is the most populous city in the great state of Alaska? A: Anchorage
Q: What is the name of the whaling ship that is the focus of the classic Moby Dick? A: Pequod
Q: What nursery rhyme concludes with Violets are blue, sugar is sweet, and so are you? A: Roses are red
Q: Taught to children, what are the 3 recommended steps one takes when one spontaneously catches on fire? A: Stop, drop, and roll
Q: The 4th largest fast food chain, and second largest hamburger chain (by store numbers), what company opened its first store in Miami, Fla on December 4, 1954? A: Burger King
Q: In the world of Skeet shooting, also known as Inanimate Bird Shooting, what is the name of the small round disk that serves as the target? A: Clay pigeon
Q: Given its own glass, what drink consists of 4 parts whisky, 1 sugar cube, 2 dashes Angostura bitters, and a splash of soda water? A: An Old Fashioned
Q: Commonly used as a derogatory term, what name is sometimes given to children born in the US to illegal immigrants who, given their citizenship, are thought to be used as a means of obtaining citizenship for the parents? A: Anchor Baby
Q: The International Court of Justice, otherwise known as the World Court, is located in what country? A: The Netherlands
Q: November 30, 2004 saw what Jeopardy! champion, who holds the record for the most consecutive wins on the show, lose to Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance? A: Ken Jennings
Q: On December 1, 1955, who was famously arrested on a bus in Montgomery, Alabama for refusing to obey bus driver James Blake's order to move to the back of the bus, sparking a year long boycott of the bus service? A: Rosa Parks
Q: November 30 is a time to celebrate the birthday of what TV personality, known as The World’s Oldest Teenager, who hosted American Bandstand and still does the New Year’s Rockin’ Eve broadcast every December 31st? A: Dick Clark
Q: Dedicated to raising awareness of the AIDS pandemic, today is World AIDS day. What color ribbon is worn to mark the day? A: Red
Q: By what name, shared by a Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman movie, do the sports teams from The University of Alabama play? A: The Crimson Tide
Q: “Dirty Harry” Callahan is a cop in what city’s police department? A: San Francisco
Q: The first issue of Playboy magazine was on newsstands in December, 1953. Which starlet/model was featured as the first centerfold? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: That totally bad-assed mariner known as Popeye sports tattoos of what on his massive forearms? A: Anchors
Q: Taking her stage name from a Queen song, what singer was born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta in 1986? A: Lady Gaga
Q: Name the year: The Euro becomes official currency; Mandalay Bay opens in Vegas; Columbine; SpongeBob SquarePants debuts; Lance Armstrong wins his first Tour de France; WTO riots paralyze Seattle; A: 1999
Q: Qualcomm stadium is the home to what NFL team? A: San Diego Chargers
Q: What is the shoemakers model of the human foot called? A: A Last
Q: Former Representative from the 5th district, Rahm Emanuel was born on Nov 29, 1959. What government position does he hold? A: White House Chief of Staff
Q: Currently the 3rd most popular search engine, what is the name of Microsoft's competitor to Google? A: Bing
Q: What product was advertised with the slogan: Like a rock? A: Chevrolet
Q: Which famous bodybuilder advertised his ability to transform a "97 pound weakling" into a muscle man? A: Charles Atlas
Q: Who's missing? Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer ,John G. Roberts, Samuel Alito, Sonia Sotomayor. A bonus point if you can tell me why the missing person is missing. A: John Paul Stevens
Q: March 3, 1991 saw George Holliday videotaped what event that eventually lead to a series of riots that resulted in 53 deaths? A: The beating of Rodney King
Q: Doctor Julius Hibbert is the resident General Practitioner on what TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: The role that would eventually become synonymous with Peter Falk, Lt. Columbo, was originally offered to what legendary crooner, who turned it down? A: Bing Crosby
Q: What presidential candidate suspended his campaign on Saturday, following allegations of adultery among his many other woes? A: Herman Cain
Q: What American actor, born on Dec 8, 1936, was equally famous for his role as Caine on TVs Kung Fu and for dying in a Bangkok hotel closet in a case of autoerotic asphyxiation gone awry? A: David Carradine
Q: In the board game Operation, which ailment requires the removal of a small, plastic wrench? A: Wrenched Ankle
Q: What 1984 slasher film featured a fedora wearing main villain wearing a red and green sweater with a metal-clawed brown leather glove on his right hand? A: A Nightmare on Elm Street
Q: Dec 7, 1941 saw the attack on the US Naval facilities at Pearl Harbor, HI. The sinking of what battleship, now the site of a major memorial, accounted for over half the loss of life during the attack when 1,177 sailors died? A: USS Arizona
Q: Born on Dec 9, 1886, which Brooklyn, NY resident invented the process of flash freezing food to prevent damage to the food? A: Clarence Birdseye
Q: According to a once-popular myth, oysters could only be eaten in months containing what letter in their names? A: R
Q: What common Latin phrase literally translates as To the point of disgust A: Ad Nauseam
Q: What long running PBS staple features a purple, anthropomorphic Tyrannosaurus Rex known for his "I love you" song? A: Barney and Friends
Q: After clashing with Zeus and his allies, what race of Greek gods was banished to Tartarus, the pit of torment lying beneath the depths of Hades? A: Titans
Q: Featuring Steven Van Zandt, Nils Lofgren, and Patti Scialfa, what is the name of the group that backs up Bruce Springsteen? A: E Street Band
Q: From the Greek for a district in Thessaly, what element, whit the atomic number of 12, uses the symbol Mg? A: Magnesium
Q: As portrayed in the 1984 movie Amadeus, what classical composer is accused of having had a hand in the death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, on Dec 5, 1791? A: Antonio Salieri
Q: December 7, 1863 saw the birth of what businessman, who along with business partner Alvah C Roebuck, opened their first store in Chicago in 1886? A: Richard Warren Sears
Q: For a point each, name the 2 countries surrounding the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. A: Cameroon, Gabon
Q: Known as the Sooner State, what was the 48th state to join the Union on Nov 16, 1907? A: Oklahoma
Q: Sperm, beluga, and pilot are all types of what? A: Whales
Q: What J. D. Salinger book was Mark David Chapman carrying with him when he shot John Lennon outside the Dakota apartments on Dec 8, 1980? A: The Catcher in the Rye
Q: Who's missing: Jason, Mary Ellen, Erin, Ben, Jim-Bob, Elizabeth A: John-Boy
Q: Fifteen minutes could save you fifteen percent or more on car insurance is used by what insurance company? A: Geico
Q: The continental divide, the point at which watersheds tend to drain to the Pacific, instead of the Atlantic, lies principally along which mountain range? A: The Rocky Mountains
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who is to blow his horn, because the sheeps in the meadow and the cows in the corn? A: Little Boy Blue
Q: What was the name by which we called Thailand before 1939 and between 1945 and 1949? A: Siam
Q: Which company is responsible for "The Gun that Won the West"? A: Winchester Repeating Arms
Q: What New Orleans Jazz Legend was commonly known as Satchmo, short for Satchelmouth? A: Louis Armstrong
Q: There are no member countries of the United Nations that begin with the letter x or what other letter? A: W
Q: According to the modern NFL rules, what is the range of numbers that a quarterback can wear? A: 1-19
Q: On December 10, 1906, which totally badassed US president won the Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating an end to the Russo-Japanese War, the first American ever to win a Nobel Prize? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: The Curious Case of Benjamin Buttons, the story (and movie) about a boy/man who ages in reverse, was written by what great Jazz Age writer? A: F. Scott Fitzgerald
Q: What drink consists of equal parts of stout beer and champagne, usually served in a champagne flute? A: Black Velvet
Q: Which famous Vice Admiral, who died on December 7, 1817, is famous for navigating a life boat 3,618 nautical miles to the island of Timor, having been put overboard by mutineer Fletcher Christian? A: William Bligh
Q: Poseidon, the god of the sea in Greek mythology, was known by what name in Roman mythology? A: Neptune
Q: A bone is joined to a muscle by what tough band of inelastic fibrous tissue? A: Tendon
Q: What youth groups motto is “Be Prepared”? A: Boy Scouts
Q: Dec 6, 1850 saw the invention of the Ophthalmoscope, a device that allows doctors to examine what part of the body? A: The eyes
Q: Who became the first state when they ratified the US Constitution on December 7, 1787? A: Delaware
Q: Which president’s policy was to “speak softly and carry a big stick”? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: What famous Christmas icon was created by Montgomery Ward employee Robert L. May in 1939 for one of their catalogs? A: Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer
Q: Who authored the 1823 immortal poem, "A Visit from St. Nicholas"? A: Clement Moore
Q: The wickedest man in the world, Dr. Simon Bar Sinister is the man antagonist in what TV cartoon? A: Underdog
Q: On December 8th, 1941, FDR delivered his famous "a date that will live in infamy" speech. To what was he referring? A: The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor
Q: Originally titled Your Radio Playhouse, what long running PBS radio series is hosted by Ira Glass? A: This American Life
Q: What famous 1898 volunteer military unit was named after the members of Buffalo Bill's famous Wild West show? A: Roosevelt's Rough Riders
Q: Following a year trial, Seattle resident Amanda Knox had her fate decided at the hands of an Italian jury. How did they find her? A: Guilty
Q: In the numbering system used in baseball scorekeeping (where the pitcher is #1, shortstop #6, etc), what position is #2? A: Catcher
Q: Who is missing: Benjamin Franklin, Ulysses S. Grant, Andrew Jackson, Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln? A: George Washington
Q: President Obama is not the first sitting US president to win a peace prize. Who was the first president to win a Nobel Prize? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: December 11, 1941 saw what 2 countries declare war on the United States? A: Germany, Italy
Q: What company advertises its products with the tag line “Life’s Good”? A: LG
Q: The Green Bay Packers play at what storied stadium? A: Lambeau Field
Q: On December 7, 1787, which US state became the first to ratify the US Constitution, a fact that they display on their license plates? A: Delaware
Q: Barak Obama was 47 at the time of his inauguration. Who was the youngest president, aged 42 at the time of his swearing in? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: What is the largest city in Canada? A: Toronto
Q: December 12, 2003 saw the death of Keiko, an Orca whale, off the coast of Finland. Keiko achieved fame as a star in what movie series? A: Free Willy
Q: Named for the gynecologist that invented them, what exercises for the pelvic muscles were originally developed to combat incontinence? A: Kegel
Q: Whom did Time Magazine tab as their Person of the Year for 2011? A: The Protestor
Q: Los Angeles is the largest city in California? What city holds the honor of being the second largest? A: San Diego
Q: Santa's Little Helper is the family dog on what TV series? A: The Simpsons
Q: If Omnipotence is Latin for all powerful, what is Latin for all knowing? A: Omniscience
Q: The boll weevil, a species of beetle, causes damage to which crop? A: Cotton
Q: A staunch conservationist, which US President is credited with creating the National Forest Service, 5 national parks, 18 national monuments, 51 Bird Reserves, four Game Preserves, and 150 National Forests? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: What had Grandma been drinking too much of in the song 'Grandma got run over by a reindeer'? A: Egg nog
Q: Mug, Hires, and Barq's are all types of what? A: Root beers
Q: Dec 13, 1953 saw the birth of Ben Bernanke, Harvard grad with a PhD from MIT. What position does he hold, and rather poorly at that? A: Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve
Q: On December 14, 1911, Norwegian Roald Amundsen became the first person to visit where? A: The South Pole
Q: What degree does a US law school graduate get? A: JD
Q: On December 14, 1972, Eugene Cernan became the last man to do what, when he followed Harrison Schmitt into the ALM? A: Set foot on the moon
Q: MTV's The Real World is still on the air after 26 seasons. What city hosts the current incarnation, whose season finale is tonight? A: San Diego, CA
Q: Arch enemey of Count Dracula, what is the name of the vampire hunter in Bram Stokers 1897 novel Dracula? A: Professor Abraham Van Helsing
Q: What can be a Greek god, a Paris-based, high-fashion luxury-goods manufacturer, and a Futurama character? A: Hermes
Q: What were the two sides facing off against each other in the 70s video tape format wars? A: Betamax and VHS
Q: December 13, 1636 saw The Massachusetts Bay Colony organizes three militia regiments to defend the colony against the Pequot Indians. This is recognized today as the founding of what branch of the military? A: United States National Guard.
Q: Served in a traditional cocktail glass, what drink consists of equal parts brandy (or cognac), Contreau, and lemon juice? A: A Sidecar
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who “stole a pig and away did run”? A: Tom, Tom, the Piper's Son
Q: The first episode of what TV series, now in a record 22nd year, debuted on December 17, 1989, following 3 years as shorts on The Tracey Ullman Show? A: The Simpsons
Q: With an accepted height of 11,249 feet, what is the tallest mountain in Oregon, and the 4th highest in the Cascades? A: Mount Hood
Q: December 14, 2003, saw the capture of The Ace of Spades, Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein, near what town, his home town? A: Tikrit
Q: What is the name given to the meteorological phenomenon which is characterized by a strong and persistent flow of atmospheric moisture and associated heavy rainfall from the waters adjacent to the Hawaiian Islands, which resulted in record rainfall at Seatac airport this week. A: Pineapple Express
Q: According to the proverb, you should look before you do what? A: Leap
Q: What’s missing: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, Prince Caspian, The Silver Chair, The Horse and His Boy, The Magician’s Nephew, The Last Battle? A: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader
Q: In the motion picture industry, what does a gaffer do? A: Electrician
Q: What chapter from Kenneth Grahame's 1908 book The Wind in the Willows lent its' name to the 1967 debut album from Pink Floyd? A: The Piper at the Gates of Dawn
Q: December 14, 1903 saw the first attempt at what, from Big Kill Devil Hill, North Carolina, which was not successfully accomplished until 3 days later, following necessary repairs from the previous attempt? A: First flight of the Wright Flyer
Q: What 1963 Alfred Hitchcock movie, which introduced the ever so talented Tippi Hedren, took place at the lovely Northern California town of Bodega Bay? A: The Birds
Q: According to the tongue twister, who picked a peck of pickled peppers? A: Peter Piper
Q: Keith Moon, Ginger Baker, Charlie Watts, Buddy Rich, Phil Collins and Karen Carpenter are all what type of musician? A: Drummers
Q: The male is a cob, the female a pen, & the young a cygnet: which bird are we talking about? A: Swans
Q: Who memorialized a battle of the Crimean War in his 1854 poem The Charge of the Light Brigade? A: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Q: What radio station do you find at 950 on your local AM dial? A: KJR
Q: Stop, drop, and roll was drilled in your head in elementary school if you ever caught on fire. What did they expect you to do in the case of a nuclear attack? A: Duck and Cover
Q: Roald Amundsen, along with Olav Bjaaland, Helmer Hanssen, Sverre Hassel, and Oscar Wisting, became the first to reach the South Pole on December 14, 1911. What countries flag did they fly over the pole? A: Norway
Q: According to the classic 12 Days of Christmas song, what group were there 11 of? A: Pipers Piping
Q: Dec 13, 1953 saw the birth of Ben Bernanke, Harvard grad with a PhD from MIT. What governmental position does he hold? A: Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve
Q: Which Gilligans Island character had the unique ability to construct just about anything necessary to survive from coconuts and bamboo (including a way to recharge batteries), but couldn't be arsed to fix a 2 foot hole in a boat? A: The Professor
Q: Holding office from 1901 to 1909, who was the 26th President of the United States? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Christmas Island, a territory of Australia, is located in what ocean? A: Indian
Q: Yesterday saw the maiden flight of the new Boeing Dreamliner. What model number is it given? A: 787
Q: Arch enemy of Count Dracula, what is the name of the vampire hunter in Bram Stokers 1897 novel Dracula? A: Professor Abraham Van Helsing
Q: Ralph Wilson Stadium is home to what NFL team? A: The Buffalo Bills
Q: Who was the first American to win a Nobel prize? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: How the Grinch Stole Christmas was written by who? A: Dr. Seuss
Q: If Misogyny is the hatred of women, what is the hatred of men? A: misandry
Q: Dec 18, 1620 is the official landing date of the Mayflower. At what Massachusetts location did they make land? A: Plymouth
Q: In the Transformer universe, who do the Autobots battle? A: The Decepticons
Q: Name the only US president who has won the medal of honor. A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: Dec 18, 2008 marked the death of Mark Felt. What prominent role in the watergate scandals did he play? A: Deep Throat
Q: What is the name of the Christmas Poo, who emerges from the toilet bowl on Christmas Eve and brings presents to good boys and girls whose diets have been high in fiber, who appears on TVs South Park? A: Mr Hankey
Q: What is the name of the King of Halloween Town who tries to take over Christmas in the Disney movie The Nightmare Before Christmas? A: Jack Skellington
Q: Immortalized in an 1851 painting by Emmanuel Gottlieb Leutze, which river did George Washington cross on Christmas night in 1776 before attacking the Hessian forces during the Battle of Trenton? A: The Delaware
Q: According to Zuzu Bailey, what happens every time a bell rings? A: An angel gets his wings
Q: What product is advertised with the slogan "When you care enough to send the very best?" A: Hallmark
Q: The American ad writer Robert L. May introduced what popular Christmas character when he designed a new coloring book for Montgomery Ward in 1939? A: Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer
Q: In Tchaikovskys ballet The Nutcracker, who is the nutcrackers main enemy? A: The Mouse King
Q: In the O. Henry story “The Gift of the Magi”, what did Della sell to buy a chain for her husband’s prized pocket watch? A: Her hair
Q: The Saint Nicholas who served as the inspiration for Santa Claus, also known as Nicholas of Myra, hailed from what country? A: Greece
Q: December 20, 1860 saw which state secede from the Union, the first of 11? A: South Carolina
Q: What cocktail consists of 1.5 oz Gin, .5oz Applejack, 4 dashes Grenadine, the juice of 1/2 Lemon, and 1 egg white? A: Pink Lady
Q: In the classic 1990 movie Home Alone, where is the McCallister family headed on vacation when 8 year old Kevin is mistakenly left behind? A: Paris
Q: Whose ghost was the first to appear to Ebenezer Scrooge? A: Jacob Marley
Q: What was the name of Scrooge's long suffering clerk in a Christmas Carol? A: Bob Cratchit
Q: What holiday, created by a future Cal State Long Beach professor in 1966, is celebrated the day after Christmas for 7 days? A: Kwanzaa
Q: Olive the Other what is a Christmas book by Vivian Walsh and J Otto Seibold? A: Reindeer
Q: Named for the day of its discovery by Captain William Mynors, Christmas Island, a land mass in the Indian Ocean, is a territory of what nation? A: Australia
Q: Since a misprinted telephone number in 1958, NORAD, the joint US/Canadian organization that provides aerospace intrusion warning, among other actions, has spent no public money tracking what? A: Santa Claus
Q: For a point each, name the 5 countries surrounding the place where Santa Klaus is both rumored to live and is known as Father Frost, Kazakhstan. A: Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan
Q: According to the song The Twelve Days of Christmas, what is given on the seventh day and what are they doing? A: Seven swans a-swimming
Q: March 9, 1959 saw the introduction of what Mattel favorite, an 11.5 inch tall fashion doll which saw controversy when a later talking model exclaimed such phrases as Will we ever have enough clothes?, and Math class is tough!? A: Barbie
Q: On January 16, 2001, President Bill Clinton awarded what former president a posthumous Medal of Honor, the only president to have received one? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: July 27, 1940 saw the introduction of what beloved cartoon character in the 8:15 short A Wild Hare? A: Bugs Bunny
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, who couldnt put humpty back together again? A: All the kings horses and all the kings men
Q: According to the Bart Simpsons TV ad, Nobody better lay a finger on my what?? A: Butterfinger
Q: Where in England was Dame Judi Dench born? A: York
Q: From which country did Angola achieve independence in 1975? A: Portugal
Q: Which city does David Soul come from? A: Chicago
Q: Who won Super Bowl XX? A: Chicago Bears
Q: Which was the first European country to abolish capital punishment? A: Norway
Q: In which country did he widespread use of ISDN begin in 1988? A: Japan
Q: What is Bruce Willis' real first name? A: Walter
Q: Which William wrote the novel Lord Of The Flies? A: Golding
Q: How is Joan Molinsky better known? A: Joan Rivers
Q: In which branch of the arts is Patricia Neary famous? A: Ballet
Q: Which country is Europe's largest silk producer? A: Italy
Q: The VS-300 was a type of what? A: Helicopter
Q: At which university did Joseph Goebbels become a doctor of philosophy? A: Heidelberg
Q: Which prince is Queen Elizabeth II's youngest son? A: Edward
Q: When did the founder of Jehovah's Witnesses say the world would end? A: 1914
Q: Who was the only Spice Girl not to have a middle name? A: Posh Spice
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Algeria? A: DZ
Q: How did Jock die in Dallas? A: Helicopter accident
Q: Who wrote the novel Evening Class? A: Maeve Binchy
Q: Which country does the airline Air Pacific come from? A: Fiji
Q: In which branch of the arts does Allegra Kent work? A: Ballet
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with Billy, Don't Be A Hero? A: Bo Donaldson & The Heywoods
Q: Who directed the movie La Dolce Vita? A: Federico Fellini
Q: Which country does the airline LACSA come from? A: Costa Rica
Q: Who directed 2001: A Space Odyssey? A: Stanley Kubrick
Q: Which is the largest of the Japanese Volcano Islands? A: Iwo Jima
Q: Ezzard Charles was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Who was the first woman to make a solo flight across the Atlantic? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: Which port lies between Puget Sound and Lake Washington? A: Seattle
Q: Who became US Vice President when Spiro Agnew resigned? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which George invented the Kodak roll-film camera? A: Eastman
Q: Which series had the characters Felix Unger and Oscar Madison? A: The Odd Couple
Q: Who along with Philips developed the CD in the late 70s? A: Sony
Q: Where is the multinational Nestle based? A: Switzerland
Q: 19969 was the Chinese year of which creature? A: Rat
Q: In the 90s how many points have been awarded for finishing second in a Grand Prix? A: 6
Q: Stapleton international airport is in which US state? A: Colorado
Q: What was Kevin Kline's first movie? A: Sophie's Choice
Q: What day of the week was the Wall Street Crash? A: Thursday
Q: The US signed a treaty with which country to allow the construction of the Panama Canal? A: Columbia
Q: What was Prince's last No 1 of the 80s? A: Batdance
Q: Man In The Mirror first featured on which Michel Jackson album? A: Bad
Q: Where was the first battle with US involvement in the Korean War? A: Suwon
Q: On which Caribbean island did Princess Diana spend he first Christmas after her divorce was announced? A: Barbuda
Q: In which decade was Arnold Schwarzenegger born? A: 1950s
Q: Which musical featured the song Thank Heaven for Little Girls? A: Gigi
Q: The Queen Elizabeth liner was destroyed by fire in the 70s in which harbour? A: Hong Kong
Q: What breed of dog did Columbo own? A: Basset hound
Q: Phil Collins appeared in which Spielberg film with Robin Williams? A: Hook
Q: 1998 was the Chinese year of which creature? A: Tiger
Q: Which country does musician Alfred Brendel come from? A: Austria
Q: Theodore Francis international airport is in which US state? A: Rhode Island
Q: In which soap did Demi Moore find fame? A: General Hospital
Q: To the nearest million, what is the population of London, England? A: 7 million
Q: What did Clarice Cliff create? A: Pottery
Q: Which James Bond film features a song by Louis Armstrong? A: On Her Majesty's Secret Service
Q: In what year were US ground troops first dispatched to Vietnam? A: 1965
Q: In 1999 Anna Kournikova signed a lucrative contract to model what? A: Bras
Q: Which member of the Monkees came from Washington DC? A: Peter Tork
Q: Who had the noels Spy Hook and Spy Line published in the 80s? A: Len Deighton
Q: In which country was Ursula Andrews born? A: Switzerland
Q: What was CBS TV news broadcaster Walter Cronkite's stock closing phrase? A: And that's the way it is
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with Let Your Love Flow? A: Bellamy Brothers
Q: Which state renewed Mike Tyson's boxing license in 1998? A: Nevada
Q: Neil Armstrong was a pilot in which war? A: Korean
Q: Nickelodeon was founded in 1979 by which company? A: Warner Amex
Q: Which element along with polonium did the Curies discover? A: Radium
Q: In The Banana Splits what sort of animal was Snorky? A: Elephant
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 hit with Can't Fight This Feeling? A: REO Speedwagon
Q: Which parallel was the truce line in the Korean War? A: 38th Parallel
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter is between A and D? A: S
Q: What was Hitchcock's first sound movie? A: Blackmail
Q: Which newspaper did Jackie Kennedy work for just before her marriage? A: Washington Times Herald
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Turkey? A: TR
Q: Who wrote The Turn Of The Screw in the 19th century and The Ambassadors in the 20th? A: Henry James
Q: Which American nuclear submarine was the first to sail across the North Pole under the ice cap? A: Nautilus
Q: What was John Glenn/'s first spacecraft called? A: Friendship 7
Q: Which branch of medicine is concerned with disorders of the blood? A: Haematology
Q: Where was The Iron Triangle? A: Vietnam
Q: What is the correct name of laughing gas? A: Nitrous oxide
Q: What is the distance between bases on a little league baseball field? A: 60 feet
Q: How many home runs did baseball great Ty Cobb hit in the three world series in which he played? A: None
Q: "What breakfast food gets its name from the German word for ""stirrup""?" A: The Bagel
Q: What American city produces most of the egg rolls sold in grocery stores in the United States? A: Houston Texas
Q: Which 100-mile long waterway links the Mediterranean and the Red Sea? A: Suez Canal
Q: In which country is the Aswan Dam? A: Egypt
Q: Where did Idi Amin rule from 1971-1979? A: Uganda
Q: Which country has the rand as its currency? A: South Africa
Q: What is the former name of the People's Republic of Venin? A: Dohomey
Q: In which country are Tangier and Casablanca? A: Morocco
Q: Who was the Egyptian president who was assassinated in 1981? A: Sadat
Q: Which country was called Upper Volta until 1984? A: Burkina Faso
Q: Who was the Egyptian king whose tomb an treasures were discovered in the Valley of the Kings in 1922? A: Tutankhamen
Q: What are the two main arms of the River Nile called? A: Blue Nile and White Nile
Q: In which country did King Hassan II ascend the throne in 1961? A: Morocco
Q: Which British general was killed at Khartoum in 1885? A: Gordon
Q: On the border of which two countries is Victoria Falls? A: Zambia and Zimbabwe
Q: What is the name of the volcanic valley that runs from the Sinai peninsula to central Mozambique? A: Great Rift Valley
Q: Which actor won an Academy Award for his performance in The African Queen? A: Humphrey Bogart
Q: Who wrote the novel Cry, the Beloved Country about South Africa? A: Alan Paton
Q: What is the capital of Kenya? A: Nairobi
Q: From which European country did Angola achieve independence in 1975? A: Portugal
Q: Which country mainly makes up the Horn of Africa? A: Somalia
Q: What is the capital of Sierra Leone? A: Freetown
Q: Which country is the island of Zanzibar part of? A: Tanzania
Q: What is Africa's largest country? A: Sudan
Q: Which African country is bordered by Benin, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Mali? A: Burkino Faso
Q: Who was the woman sentenced to six years in jail after the murder of Stompei Seipi? A: Winnie Mandela
Q: In which country are the towns of Gweru and Kwekwe? A: Zimbabwe
Q: Who was the founder of the Back to Africa movement who largely inspired Rastafarianism? A: Marcus Garvey
Q: Which African country is sandwiched between Ghana and Benin? A: Togo
Q: The Zambesi and which other river define the borders of Matabeleland? A: Limpopo
Q: In which mountains are Camp David? A: Appalachian
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film A View To A Kill? A: Duran Duran
Q: In which country did General Jaruzelski impose marital law in 1981? A: Poland
Q: Who won the Oscar for directing It Happened One Night? A: Frank Capra
Q: Hellenikon international airport is in which country? A: Greece
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 with Lightnin' Strikes? A: Lou Christie
Q: In which year was CNN founded? A: 1980
Q: Which famous brother of Talia Shire does not share her last name? A: Francis Ford Coppola
Q: In basketball where do the Celtics come from? A: Boston
Q: Which Disney film had the theme tune A Whole New World? A: Aladdin
Q: Florence Ballard was a member of which girl group? A: Supremes
Q: Who was born first, Susan Sarandon or Glenn Close? A: Susan Sarandon
Q: Who wrote the novel The Go Between? A: L. P. Hartley
Q: In which musical do the sweeps sing Chim Chim Cheree? A: Mary Poppins
Q: Who had a big 60s No 1 with Tossin' and Turnin'? A: Bobby Lewis
Q: Sam Phillips was owner of which legendary recording studio? A: Sun
Q: Which actor played Maxwell Smart? A: Don Adams
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter on the same line is between C and B? A: V
Q: In which decade did golfer Gary Player last win the British Open? A: 70s
Q: Sarah FitzGerald has been a 90s world champion in which sport? A: Squash
Q: Where was the peace treaty signed that brought World War I to an end? A: Versailles
Q: Which company was responsible for the oil spill in Alaska in 1989? A: Exxon
Q: In which decade of the 20th century was Dan Aykroyd born? A: 50s
Q: Which leader did Hitler meet in the Brenner Pass in WWII? A: Mussolini
Q: Which company first manufactured the electric toothbrush? A: Squibb
Q: Which actor bought the island of Tetiaroa? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Between 1952 and 1954 did the number of TV stations in the USA double, triple or quadruple? A: Triple
Q: What was Wham!'s first No 1? A: Wake Me Up Before You Go Go
Q: Which musical featured the song You'll Never Walk Alone? A: Carousel
Q: In which year was Bloody Sunday in Londonderry? A: 1972
Q: The first untethered space walk took place from which space craft? A: Challenger
Q: Richard Nixon was Vice President to which US state? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: Luxor international airport is in which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which country did Albert Einstein move to as the Nazis rose to power? A: America
Q: In the 90s how many points have been awarded for finishing first in a Grand Prix? A: 10
Q: Which lawyer made Raymond Burr famous? A: Perry Mason
Q: Which broadcasting company did Edward J Noble found? A: ABC
Q: In which decade did the Jackson 5 sign to Motown? A: 1960s
Q: How many vice presidents did Franklin D Roosevelt have? A: Three
Q: In which state is Harrah's Auto Collection situated? A: Nevada
Q: What was the name of Gene Autry's horse? A: Champion
Q: Which city has a sports team of Steelers and team of Pirates? A: Pittsburgh
Q: What did Fort Dearborn, Indian Territory change its name to? A: Chicago, Illinois
Q: Bill Berry retired through ill health as a drummer in which band? A: REM
Q: Leslie Nielsen trained in which of the armed services in WWII? A: Royal Canadian
Q: Which musical featured the song I Feel Pretty? A: West Side Story
Q: Who produced the first Jetliner in 1957? A: Boeing
Q: In which country is the deepwater port of Trondheim? A: Norway
Q: In which state is Camp David? A: Maryland
Q: What was the Statue of Liberty originally called? A: Liberty Enlightening the World
Q: Who sang the Bond theme form From Russia With Love? A: Matt Monro
Q: Which company was responsible for the oil spill in New York harbor in 1990? A: Exxon
Q: In which country was Arnold Schwarzenegger born? A: Austria
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Don't You Want Me? A: Human League
Q: Which star of Hannah And Her Sisters has a child called Free? A: Barbara Hershey
Q: Who had 70s hits with Have You Seen Her and Oh Girl? A: Chi-Lites
Q: "What was the name of the ""girl with kaleidoscope eyes"" in a Beatles song?" A: Lucy
Q: Will Rogers airport was built in which US state? A: Oklahoma
Q: "What couple live next door to Dagwood and Blondie Bumstead in ""Blondie""?" A: Herb and Tootsie Woodley
Q: Who was the Lone Ranger's great grand-nephew? A: The Green Hornet
Q: "Psychologist William Moulton Marston, inventor of the polygraph, or lie detector, also created a famous comic book heroine,. Who was she?""" A: Wonder Woman
Q: """Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again,"" was the first line of what Daphne du Maurier novel?" A: Rebecca
Q: "What is the actual title of Leonardo da Vinci's ""Mona Lisa""?" A: La Gioconda
Q: In Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's famous poem, Hiawatha, what was the name of Hiawatha's wife? A: Minnehaha
Q: How many husbands did the Wife of Bath have, as reported in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales? A: Five
Q: What was the name of the she-ape that rescued the infant Tarzan and raised him to be Lord of the Apes? A: Kala
Q: What was the title of Mac West's 1959 autobiography? A: Goodness Had Nothing to Do With It
Q: What is the native country of Agatha Chrisitie's detective Hercule Poirot? A: Belgium
Q: What was the hometown of Sgt. Snorkel in Beetle Bailey? A: Pork Corners, Kansas
Q: In the Robin Hood stories, what was the real name of Little John? A: John Little
Q: The Last Of The Really Great Whangdoodles and Mandy are children's books written by what well-known Oscar-winning actress? A: Julie Andrews
Q: By what pseudonym is writer Frederick Dannay Manfred Bennington Lee better known? A: Ellery Queen
Q: What was art-world guru Andy Warhol's name at birth? A: Andrew Warhola
Q: What was the maiden name of Blondie Bumstead, the comic-strip wife of hapless Dagwood Bumstead? A: Boopadoop
Q: What famous comic strip character was inspired by the 1936 Henry Fonda film Trail of the Lonesome Pine? A: Al Capp's Li'l Abner
Q: What was the original name of the orphan created in 1924 by cartoonist Harold Gray in the comic strip we know as Little Orphan Annie? A: Otto
Q: What was the name of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's pet golden cocker spaniel ? A: Flush
Q: The title of what poetic drama by Robert Browning was used to name a Kentucky town? A: Pippa Passes
Q: How much time did Jonah spend in the belly of the whale? A: Three days and three nights
Q: How tall was Goliath, the Philistine giant slain by David with a stone hurled from a sling? A: Six cubits and a span,
Q: In what language was the New Testament originally written? A: In Greek
Q: Who were the parents of King Solomon? A: David and Bathsheba
Q: What is the name of Dr. Seuss's egg-hatching elephant? A: Horton
Q: To whom did Herman Melville dedicate his novel, Moby Dick? A: Nathanial Hawthorne
Q: "Under what assumed name did Oscar Wilde live out the last three years of his life, in ""France?" A: Sebastian Melmoth
Q: What was Scarlett O'Hara's real first name? A: Katie
Q: "What one word was intentionally left out of the movie version of Mario Puzo's novel, ""The Godfather"". even though this word was the working title of the book?" A: Mafia
Q: In the comic strips, what was the name of Mandrake the Magician's giant partner? A: Lothar
Q: What was the name of the pig leader in George Orwell's Animal Farm? A: Napoleon
Q: Tess Trueheart is the wife of what comic strip character? A: Dick Tracy
Q: In the Little Orphan Annie comic strip, what was the name of Daddy Warbucks's Giant bodyguard who wore a turban? A: Punjab
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when World War II broke out? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: How was Oflag IVC prison camp better known? A: Colditz
Q: Who succeeded Theodore Roosevelt as President? A: William Howard Taft
Q: To whom did the Bee Gees pay tribute in Tapestry Revisited? A: Carole King
Q: Who was born first, James Caan or Michael Douglas? A: James Caan
Q: In which country is the deepwater ort of Brindisi? A: Italy
Q: The word anchorman was credited by Sig Michelson about which CBS News Legend? A: Walter Cronkite
Q: Who wrote The Picture Of Dorian Gray? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film You Only Live Twice? A: Nancy Sinatra
Q: Who had a big 90s No 1 with This Is How We Do It? A: Montell Jordan
Q: Which national park, famous for aboriginal rock paintings, is near Darwin? A: Kakadu National Park
Q: In TV's All In The Family what was Mike and Gloria's son called? A: Joey
Q: Who sang with Crosby, Stills and Young? A: Graham Nash
Q: In which John Logie Baird invent television? A: 1920s
Q: Who sang the title song for the Bond film License To Kill? A: Gladys Knight
Q: Black or White came from which Michael Jackson album? A: Dangerous
Q: On a computer keyboard, which letter is between G ad J? A: H
Q: In which town or city was General Motors founded? A: Flint, Michigan
Q: In which country was the Russian Revolutionary Leon Trotsky murdered? A: Mexico
Q: Which duo had a 60s No 1 with A World Without Love? A: Peter & Gordon
Q: In which US state was Tennessee Williams born? A: Mississippi
Q: Who was Israeli Prime Minister from 1969 to 1974? A: Golda Meir
Q: Bob Gaudio and Nick Massi sang with which group? A: The Four Seasons
Q: In which country was Angelica Huston born? A: Ireland
Q: What were the first two names of 'Cannonball' Adderley? A: Julian Edwin
Q: Carrasco international airport is in which country? A: Uruguay
Q: What was the profession of New Yorker Garry Winogrand? A: Photographer
Q: Amelia Earhart was born in which state? A: Kansas
Q: Who was Theodore Roosevelt's Vice President between 1901 and 1905? A: No one
Q: What was Phil Collins' last UK No 1 of the 80s? A: Another Day in Paradise
Q: What was Al Pacino's first movie? A: Me Natalie
Q: In which year did Alcock and Brown make their Atlantic crossing? A: 1919
Q: Which singer wrote the musical Someone Like You? A: Petula Clark
Q: With which instrument was Charlie Christian associated? A: Guitar
Q: In which country is the Howrah bridge? A: India
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Brunei? A: BRU
Q: What was Oliver Hardy's real first name? A: Norvell
Q: Benito Juarez international airport is in which country? A: Mexico
Q: How old would Rocky Marciano have been had he lived to the end of the 20th century? A: 76
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with The Night The Lights Went Out In Georgia? A: Vicki Lawrence
Q: Which country does the airline Gronlandsfly come from? A: Greenland
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the goddess of the rainbow? A: Iris
Q: In ancient Athens, what tree was considered sacred -- with all its fruit belonging to the state, and death the penalty for anyone caught cutting one down? A: The olive tree
Q: What legendary fire-breathing female monster had a lion's head, a goat's body and a dragon's tail? A: The Chimera
Q: According to legend, who fired the arrow that hit Achilles in the heel, his only vulnerable spot? A: Paris
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the queen of the underworld and wife of Hades? A: Persephone
Q: "According to hippy guru Dr. Timothy Leary, what did you do before you ""drop out?""" A: Turn on, tune in
Q: What is Nelson Mandela's middle name? A: Rolihlahla
Q: How old would James Dean have been had he lived to the end of the 20th century? A: 68
Q: What was Christopher Reeve's first movie? A: Gray Lady Down
Q: The Porcaro Brothers featured in which group? A: Toto
Q: Which city was called Leninakan until 1990? A: A: Kumayri
Q: What is Iggy Pop's real name? A: James Osterberg
Q: What did Franz Kafka do for a day job? A: Worked in insurance
Q: Dorval International airport is in which country? A: Canada
Q: Who wrote the song Momma Told Me Not To Come? A: Randy Newman
Q: Who founded the Organization of Afro American Unity? A: Malcolm X
Q: Which NASA space probe was launched to Venus in 1989? A: Magellan
Q: Who directed Good Morning Vietnam? A: Barry Levinson
Q: What was Bette Davis's real first name? A: Ruth
Q: In which sport did Hollywood star Sonja Henie win Olympic Gold? A: Ice Skating
Q: Who won Super Bowl XXV? A: New York Giants
Q: Robert Mueller Municipal Airport is in which US state? A: Texas
Q: In what year were women first admitted to Harvard? A: 1969
Q: Who had 70s No 1 hit with Show and Tell? A: Al Wilson
Q: Balice international airport is in which country? A: Poland
Q: Panama proclaimed independence in 1903 from which country? A: Columbia
Q: How old was Ronald Reagan when he became US President? A: 69
Q: Which Iowa-born artist painted American Gothic and Spring Turning? A: Grant Wood
Q: Which country does the airline Garuda come from? A: Indonesia
Q: Sarah Vaughan first joined which band as singer? A: Earl Hines
Q: Which pioneering aviator had a plane called Percival Gull? A: Jean Batten
Q: Henri Becquerel shared a Nobel prize for his work in discovering what? A: Radioactivity
Q: Who was the first white music star to record on Atlantic, through its sister label Atco? A: Bobby Darin
Q: Who took the assumed name Sebastian Melmoth when living in Paris? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Who founded the off-Broadway theater where Hair had its premier? A: Joseph Papp
Q: Established in 1919, which is the world's oldest surviving airline? A: KLM
Q: "Which US First Lady said, ""No one can make you feel interior unless you consent?""" A: Eleanor Roosevelt
Q: Who won super bowl X? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Who brought to an end Jahangir Khan's long unbeaten run of success in squash in the 80s? A: Ross Norman
Q: Jomo Kenyatta was born into which tribe? A: Kikuyu
Q: Bryan Abrams, Sam Walters, Mark Calderon and Kevin Thornton formed which group? A: Color Me Badd
Q: When was the Scrabble World championship first held? A: 1991
Q: Arlanda international airport is in which country? A: Sweden
Q: What year was the centenary of Arkansas joining the Union? A: 1936
Q: Who duetted with Barbra Streisand on Till I Loved You in 1988? A: Don Johnson
Q: What was first published on 21st December 1913 in the New York World? A: A crossword puzzle
Q: What finally knocked One Sweet Day off the No 1 position in the charts in the 90s? A: Because You Loved Me
Q: Which actor paid $93,500 for the baseball which rolled between Bill Buckner's legs in game six of the 1986 World Series? A: Charlie Sheen
Q: Who was Theodore Roosevelt's Vice President between 1905 and 1909? A: Charles W. Fairbanks
Q: Which nation was the first to ratify the United Nations charter in 1945? A: Nicaragua
Q: What is the Alaskan terminus of the Alaskan Highway? A: Fairbanks
Q: What was Buster Keaton's actual first name? A: Joseph
Q: From 1903 to 1958, every Pope--bar one--took which name? A: Pius
Q: What was the title of Kitty Kelley's book about Elizabeth Taylor? A: Elizabeth Taylor: The Last Star
Q: What are the international registration letters for a vehicle form Jordan? A: HKJ
Q: In which country was Julie Christie born? A: India
Q: Which artist created the Katzenjammer Kids? A: Rudolph Dirks
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with Johnny Angel? A: Shelley Fabares
Q: Which country does the airline VIASA come from? A: Venezuela
Q: Who directed Back To The Future? A: Robert Zemeckis
Q: Where was Che Guevara killed? A: Bolivia
Q: Daryl Dragon used which name when he formed a 70s duo? A: Captain
Q: Which has the highest population, Rode island or South Dakota? A: Rhode Island
Q: What was Oliver Reed's real first name? A: Robert
Q: Who wrote the song Harper Valley PTA? A: Tom T. Hall
Q: Who choreographed the first performance of Copland's Rodeo? A: Agnes de Mille
Q: Who wrote Riders of the Purple Sage? A: Zane Gray
Q: Who directed The Big Sleep and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes? A: Howard Hawks
Q: In which year was the talkie The Jazz Singer released? A: 1927
Q: Alborg Roedslet international airport is in which country? A: Denmark
Q: What was Elton John's first US No 1 hit? A: Crocodile Rock
Q: In which decade was the Oral Roberts University founded at Tulsa? A: 1960s
Q: On which label did the Beach boys record most of their 60s hits? A: Capitol
Q: Whose musical works included Composition For Orchestra and Philomel? A: Milton Babbit
Q: What was the first state to join the Union in the 20th century? A: Oklahoma
Q: Where were the 2004 Summer Olympic Games held? A: Athens
Q: When she died how old was Karen Carpenter? A: 32
Q: In which state was Charles Schulz born? A: Minnesota
Q: "Who wrote, ""What is this life if full of care, We have no time to stand and stare?""" A: W H Davies
Q: In what year was Oliver Stone born? A: 1946
Q: What disability did singer Al Hibbler have? A: He was blind
Q: Which country does the airline Ansett come from? A: Australia
Q: Where is New York's Empire State College located? A: Saratoga Springs
Q: Where was Pablo Casals buried before he was finally laid to rest in Spain? A: Puerto Rico
Q: Santander international airport is in which country? A: Spain
Q: In which year was Nigel Mansell Indy Car Champion? A: 1993
Q: Thomas Marshal was Vice President to which US President? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Which year was the first after 1927 that the USA lost the Ryder Cup on home soil? A: 1987
Q: Ellen Church is recognized as being the first female what? A: Air Hostess
Q: Which country does the airline Avensa come from? A: Venezuela
Q: What was the USA's biggest attack of the Vietnam War when it took place in February 1967? A: Operation Junction City
Q: What was Michael Keaton's first movie? A: Night Shift
Q: What is Uma Thurman's middle name? A: Karuna
Q: What was the name of NASA's manned space project whose astronauts were chosen in 1959? A: Project Mercury
Q: In which country was Anjelica Huston born? A: Ireland
Q: Who preceded Hosni Mubarak as President of Egypt? A: Anwar El-Sadat
Q: What instrument is associated with Illinois-born John Lewis? A: Piano
Q: What type of aid was developed my Miller Hutchinson in the early years of the 20th century? A: Hearing Aid
Q: John Singer Sargent worked in which branch of the arts? A: Painting
Q: Cuscatlan international airport is in which country? A: El Salvador
Q: What was Gene Kelly's middle name? A: Curran
Q: What was the profession of William Eugene Smith? A: Photographer
Q: Which country does the airline Pluna come form? A: Uruguay
Q: Who directed A Passage To India? A: David Lean
Q: What is Gregory Peck's real first name? A: Eldred
Q: Golfer Bobby Jones was born in which state? A: Georgia
Q: What was the world's first atomic-powered ship called? A: Lenin
Q: Which architect designed the Seagram Building, New York City? A: Philip Johnson
Q: In what year was the first performance of Copland's ballet Rodeo? A: 1942
Q: Ferihegy international airport is in which country? A: Hungary
Q: Who was the defending champion when Virginia Wade won the Wimbledon singles? A: Chris Evert
Q: How many 'victories' did The Red Baron claim in aerial dogfights? A: 80
Q: Who first coined the term paradigm for all the factors that influence the scientist's research? A: TS Kuhn
Q: In which country was Sam Neill born? A: N. Ireland
Q: What was Dorothy Parker's maiden name? A: Rothschild
Q: In which month in 1997 was The Notorious B.I.G. gunned down? A: March
Q: What was the official occupation of Sir Anthony Blunt who was unmasked as a Soviet spy in 1979? A: Art Historian
Q: Which famous name was accused f the abduction of Stompie Seipei? A: Winnie Mandela
Q: What was the highest rank Charles Lindbergh attained? A: Brigadier General
Q: Who was the second person to make a solo transatlantic flight? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: Who was the third wife of the leader of China's Long March? A: Jiang Qing
Q: In 1985 Terry Waite returned to Beirut after securing the release of four British hostages where? A: Libya
Q: UN Secretary Dag Hammarskjold was killed over which country? A: Congo
Q: What was the autobiography of the first president of non-Apartheid South Africa called? A: Long Walk To Freedom
Q: Which terrorist group murdered Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro? A: Red Brigade
Q: General Boris Gromov was the last Soviet soldier to leave where in 1989? A: Afghanistan
Q: In what year did Saddam Hussein become President of Iraq? A: 1979
Q: Who became leader of the Bosnian Serbs in 1992? A: Radovan Karadzic
Q: Who was deputy commander of the 1983 US invasion of Grenada? A: Norman Schwarzkopf
Q: What was Mother Teresa's real first name? A: Agnes
Q: Who was America's first world chess champion? A: Bobby Fischer
Q: Which Swiss-born Californian first used an amplifier with a guitar? A: Adolph Rickenbacker
Q: Who was chairman of the Watergate hearings? A: Sam Ervin
Q: Who was credited with popularizing the term rock 'n' roll? A: Alan Freed
Q: What were Gary Gilmore's final words before his execution in 1977? A: Let's do it
Q: In which country was Ivana Trump born and brought up? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Who wrote the stage musical Cabaret? A: Bob Fosse
Q: Flamenco dancer Joaquin Cortes hit the headlines in 1996 over his relationship with which supermodel? A: Naomi Campbell
Q: How old was George Gershwin when he died? A: 38
Q: Which golfer became only the fifth in history to win both the British and US Open championships in the same year, in 1982? A: Tom Watson
Q: How many times did tennis legend Jimmy Connors win the US Open in the 1970s? A: Three
Q: Which pop star did model Iman marry in 1992? A: David Bowie
Q: Which actress links Dorothy in The Golden Girls and Maude Findlay in Maude? A: Bea Arthur
Q: What was the name of Jed's nephew in The Beverly Hillbillies? A: Jethro Bodine
Q: What was Green Acres called on radio? A: Granby's Green Acres
Q: Which 90s sitcom character was said to be a symbol of failing values which caused LA riots, according to Dan Quayle? A: Murphy Brown
Q: According to the series when was the Cheers bar founded? A: 1895
Q: Which sitcom with Vickie Lawrence was a spin-off from the Carol Burnett Show? A: Mama's Family
Q: Who was creator and executive producer of Magnum PI? A: Donald P. Bellisario
Q: What was the name of the vet in Daktari? A: Marsh Tracy
Q: Who bought CBS in 1929 and remained on the board until 1983? A: William S. Paley
Q: Which executive producer of Dream On is well known for films such as Trading Places? A: John Landis
Q: "To which interviewer did Richard Nixon say, ""I never cry except in public?" A: David Frost
Q: Who did Dick Van Dyke play in The Dick Van Dyke Show? A: Rob Petrie
Q: Which English actress and star of Primary Colors appeared as a guest in Cheers? A: Emma Thompson
Q: What was the first sitcom to reach No 1 in the Nielsen ratings? A: I Love Lucy
Q: Who in the singing Jackson family appeared in Different Strokes? A: Janet
Q: What was the first spin-off from The Beverly Hillbillies called? A: Petticoat Junction
Q: Which series was a spin off from the Golden Girls spin-off, Empty Nest? A: Nurses
Q: Which character did Burt Reynolds play in Evening Shade? A: Wood Newton
Q: Which comedian starred in the ABC sitcom Chicken Soup? A: Jackie Mason
Q: Who did Debbie play in The Debbie Reynolds Show? A: Debbie Thompson
Q: Dorothy, Rose, Sophia and who else formed the Golden Girls? A: Blanch
Q: Who first funded Sesame Street? A: Children's Television Workshop
Q: In Family Affair what was the butler called? A: French
Q: In the Addams Family, what is Gomez's octopus called? A: Aristotle
Q: Which character did Betty White play in The Betty White Show? A: Joyce Whitman
Q: During the series Roseanne changed her name to Arnold from what? A: Barr
Q: Which hotel sitcom was based on the British series Fawlty Towers? A: Amanda's
Q: In which year did Tanganyika and Zanzibar merge to form Tanzania? A: 1964
Q: In which decade did motor car pioneer Henry Ford die? A: 1940s
Q: Ed Gagliardi, Al Greenwood and Dennis Elliot have all been in which group? A: Foreigner
Q: "Which song starts, ""On a dark desert highway?""" A: Hotel California
Q: What was Rambo's first name? A: John
Q: When did field hockey become an Olympic event for men? A: 1908
Q: Bill Cosby had a professional trial in which sport? A: Football
Q: What was the first film Alfred Hitchcock made in Hollywood? A: Rebecca
Q: Bujumbura international airport is in which country? A: Burundi
Q: The painting The Scream was stolen form which city in 1994? A: Oslo
Q: What was Paul Newman's first movie? A: The Silver Chalice
Q: Which University of Wisconsin has the highest enrolment figure? A: Madison
Q: What is Diane Keaton's real name? A: Diane Hall
Q: Which word used to be in the name of The San Francisco Ballet? A: Opera
Q: What nationality were Mother Teresa's parents? A: Albanian
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with I'm Telling You Now? A: Freddie & The Dreamers
Q: Which philosopher wrote Eros and Civilization and One Dimensional Man? A: Herbert Marcuse
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Sri Lanka? A: CL
Q: Who directed the movie East of Eden? A: Elia Kazan
Q: In which year did Count Basie die? A: 1984
Q: Which bridge is the subject of Hart Crane's The bridge? A: Brooklyn Bridge
Q: Who is credited with inventing the Tarzan yodel? A: Johnny Weissmuller
Q: In which state do most Cree Indians live in the USA? A: Montana
Q: Bob Dole trained for which profession although he didn't qualify? A: Doctor
Q: Out of 11 series of prime time seasons how many times did Happy days make the Nielsen Top Twenty? A: Eight
Q: Who wrote the novel Watership Down? A: Richard Adams
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Australia from 1983 - 1991? A: Bob Hawke
Q: On which river was the Kariba Dam built? A: Zambezi
Q: Detroit born Diana Earle became famous under which name? A: Diana Ross
Q: Who wrote God Bless America? A: Irving Berlin
Q: What was Sean Penn's first movie? A: Taps
Q: Who had and 80s NO 1 with The Tide is High? A: Blondie
Q: In which Bond film did Britt Ekland appear? A: The Man With The Golden Gun
Q: What is Mick Jagger's middle name? A: Philip
Q: Boxer Jack Dempsey hailed from which state? A: Colorado
Q: Which British liner was sunk by a German submarine in 1915? A: Lusitania
Q: Which role as 'the other woman' won Glenn Close her first Oscar nomination? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who wrote the novel The Godfather? A: Mario Puzo
Q: Jack Sharkey was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: What was Marilyn Monroe's last film? A: The Misfits
Q: What was Bix Beiderbecke's principal musical instrument? A: Cornet
Q: US-born Adulyadej Bhumibol became king of which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: In 1971 Leonard Bernstein wrote a Mass in whose memory? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: Who had a big 50s No 1 with A Big Hunk O' Love? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Whose first hit was Maybellene in 1955? A: Chuck Berry
Q: What goes after Love Will Never Do on Janet Jackson's 1990 hit? A: Without you
Q: Which Gloria co-founded Ms magazine? A: Steinem
Q: A Fistfull of Dollars was filmed on location in which country? A: Italy
Q: Which country lies immediately to the south of Estonia? A: Latvia
Q: In which year was the University of Alaska Anchorage founded? A: 1954
Q: What star sign is shared by peter Gabriel and Stevie Wonder? A: Taurus
Q: What was John Huston's last movie? A: The Dead
Q: Who won Super Bowl III? A: New York Jets
Q: What is Marie Osmond's real first name? A: Olive
Q: Calabar international airport is in which country? A: Nigeria
Q: Which country did Thor Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki set sail from on its journey to Eastern Polynesia? A: Peru
Q: Donna Gaines is better known by which name? A: Donna Summer
Q: Which element is named after Pierre and Marie Curie? A: Curium
Q: By the end of the 20th century how many times had Meryl Streep been nominated for an Oscar? A: Nine
Q: Both Richard and Karen Carpenter came fro which state? A: Connecticut
Q: What was Mr. Magoo's first name? A: Quincy
Q: Which rock star featured in Marvel's 50th issue of Marvel Premiere in 1979? A: Alice Cooper
Q: Who was runner-up when Jody Scheckter won motor racing's Formula One Championship? A: Gilles Villeneuve
Q: In what year of the 1990s was baseball's World Series canceled? A: 1994
Q: Who first flew in Friendship 7? A: John Glenn
Q: Who had a 50s No 1 with Stagger Lee? A: Lloyd Price
Q: Who wrote the novel Gentlemen Prefer Blondes? A: Anita Loos
Q: Which country does the airline Gulf Air come from? A: Bahrain
Q: What is Alistair Cooke's real first name? A: Alfred
Q: How is seriously rich Percy Miller better known? A: Master P
Q: How old was Laurel and Hardy producer Hal Roach when he died in 1992? A: 100
Q: Who was West German Chancellor from 1969 to 1974? Willy Brandt. A: Willy Brandt
Q: What sort of Menace was the 1999 Star Wars movie? A: Phantom
Q: What was the name of Drew Barrymore's character in E.T.? A: Gertie
Q: Which ER star played opposite Jenny Seagrove in Don' Go Breaking My Heart? A: Anthony Edwards
Q: Who played Rick Deckard in Blade Runner? A: Harrison Ford
Q: What was the fourth Alien film called? A: Alien Resurrection
Q: What number Star Trek movie was called The Wrath of Khan? A: II
Q: Which King did Leonardo Di Caprio play in The Man in the Iron Mask? A: Louis XIV
Q: Which role did Rupert Everett play in The Madness of King George? A: The Prince of Wales
Q: What was Stanley Kubrick's final movie? A: Eyes Wide Shut
Q: Who tries to save the world from virtual reality in The Matrix? A: Keanu Reeves
Q: Which decade does Michael J Fox go back to in Back to the Future? A: 50s
Q: In which 90s movie did Al Pacino play retired Colonel Frank Slade? A: Scent of a Woman
Q: What is the name of Kate Winslet's character in Titanic? A: Rose
Q: Which spin-off from a 60s sitcom was a 1999 movie with Jeff Daniels and Christopher Lloyd? A: My Favorite Martian
Q: Who played the young Obi-Wan Kenobi in the Star Wars prequel? A: Ewan McGregor
Q: Who played Drew Barrymore's stepmother in Ever After? A: Angelica Houston
Q: In which 1998 film did Bruce Willis lead a team to confront a deadly threat from outer space? A: Armageddon
Q: Which 1968 sci fi classic was based on The Sentinel by Arthur C Clarke? A: 2001: A Space Odyssey
Q: Which tough guy played Mr. Freeze in Batman & Robin? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: What was the subtitle of Terminator 2? A: Judgment Day
Q: Which 1996 film has its climax on 4th of July? A: Independence Day
Q: Which Apollo mission was filmed in 1995 with Tom Hanks? A: 13
Q: In which film did Susan Sarandon play Sister Helen Prejean? A: Dead Man Walking
Q: Which star of Cheers co-starred with ?Whoopi Goldberg in Made in America? A: Ted Danson
Q: What was Pierce Brosnan's first outing as 007? A: Goldeneye
Q: Which The Bridges of Madison County star became a father again aged 65? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Where was the 1990s version of Dickens' Great Expectations set? A: New York
Q: Which important US building has its roof ripped off in Superman II? A: The White House
Q: What is the name of the Darth Vader-to-be in the Star Wars Prequel, Episode 1? A: Anakin Skywalker
Q: What was the first sequel to Star Wars? A: The Empire strikes Back
Q: Who did Jane Fonda play in the 60s movie of the same name where she repeatedly lost her clothes. A: Barbarella
Q: Who won his second Oscar in successive years for Forrest Gump? A: Tom Hanks
Q: Who won his second Oscar for the role of Raymond in Rain Man? A: Dustin Hoffman
Q: In 1997 James Cameron won an Oscar for which blockbuster? A: Titanic
Q: Which Nick won an Oscar for The Wrong Trousers? A: Park
Q: What is Sean Connery's profession in The Name of the Rose? A: Friar
Q: In which film did Jodie Foster play FBI agent Clarice Starling? A: The Silence of the Lambs
Q: Which Julie won an Oscar for Darling in 1965 and was Oscar nominated in 19987 for Afterglow? A: Christie
Q: Who did Ali McGraw marry after they had made The Getaway together? A: Steve McQueen
Q: Whose voice did Marni Nixon dub in the classic My Fair Lady? A: Audrey Hepburn
Q: Which 1997 movie equaled Ben Hur's record 11 Oscars? A: Titanic
Q: Who won an Oscar wearing an eye patch in True Grit? A: John Wayne
Q: In which film did David Niven play James Bond? A: Casino Royale
Q: Which Emma won an Oscar for her screenplay of Sense and Sensibility? A: Thompson
Q: Which film with Ralph Fiennes won Anthony Minghella an Oscar? A: The English Patient
Q: I Could Go on Singing was the last film of which screen legend? A: Judy Garland
Q: Judi Dench won an Oscar as which Queen in Shakespeare in Love? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Who won the Best Actor and Best Director Oscar for Dances With Wolves? A: Kevin Costner
Q: Which Jessica was the then oldest Oscar winner for Driving Miss Daisy? A: Tandy
Q: In the 70s which gangster film won an Oscar as did its sequel? A: The Godfather
Q: For which film about a Scottish hero did Mel Gibson win his first Oscars for Best Picture and Best Director? A: Braveheart
Q: Who got her first big break in Grease 2? A: Michelle Pfeiffer
Q: Who played Charlie Chaplin in Richard Attenborough's 1992 film? A: Robert Downey Jr
Q: Which star of Gypsy and West Side Story married Robert Wagner twice? A: Natalie Wood
Q: Which lyricist who has worked with Elton John and Andrew Lloyd Webber won an award for A Whole New World from Aladdin? A: Tim Rice
Q: Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head was an Oscar winner from which movie with Robert Redford & Paul Newman? A: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
Q: The multi-Oscar winning The Deer Hunter was about steelworkers who went to fight where? A: Vietnam
Q: Who wrote the lyrics for the song form Notting Hill sung by Elvis Costello? A: Herbert Kretzmer
Q: In what year does Demolition Man take place? A: 2032
Q: What was the name of the butler in The Rocky Horror Picture Show? A: Riff Raff
Q: What was the real first name of the silent Marx Brother? A: Adolph
Q: What was Steve Martin's first film? A: The Jerk
Q: Which film tells of the exploits of singer Deco Duffe? A: The Commitments
Q: In which category was Mrs. Doubtfire Oscar-nominated? A: Best Makeup
Q: Which musical was Victor Fleming making the same time as he was making Gone With the Wind? A: The Wizard of Oz
Q: On which film was Three Men and a Baby based? A: Trois Hommes et un Couffin
Q: What was Xanadu in the title of the film? A: Roller disco
Q: Whose poems returned to the bestsellers list after Four Weddings and a Funeral? A: W. H. Auden
Q: Who was the voice of O'Malley in The Aristocats? A: Phil Harris
Q: What was the name of Bob Fosse's character in All That Jazz? A: Joe Gideon
Q: How old was Macaulay Culkin when he was cast for his role in Home Alone? A: Nine
Q: In which 70s musical did Paul Michael Glaser star? A: Fiddler on the Roof
Q: "In Private ""Benjamin, what is the name of ""Benjamin's captain?" A: Lewis
Q: How many different hats does Madonna wear in Evita? A: 39
Q: A Little Night Music was based on which non-musical film? A: Smiles of a Summer Night
Q: What was the name of the high school in Porky's? A: Angel Beach
Q: Who was Louise Lasser's husband when she stared with him in What's Up Tiger Lily? A: Woody Allen
Q: What was Tootsie's name before he turned into Tootsie? A: Michael Dorsey
Q: What was the first sequel to The Pink Panther called? A: A Shot in the Dark
Q: Who played the title role in the film version of Jesus Christ Superstar? A: Ted Neely
Q: Who was the leader of the band that appeared in The Brady Bunch Movie? A: Davy Jones
Q: "In which film was chorus girl Peggy Sawyer told to ""come back a star?""" A: 42nd Street
Q: What are the last lines of My Fair Lady? A: Where the devil are my slippers?
Q: In The Muppet Movie what was the name of the restaurant Doc Hopper wanted to open? A: Frogs' Legs
Q: Who directed The Cable Guy? A: Ben Stiller
Q: What type of drug is Sherman Klump trying to perfect in The Nutty Professor? A: Weight loss
Q: Which First Lady had to give evidence over the Whitewater scandal? A: Hillary Clinton
Q: "About which British politician did Francois Mitterrand say, ""She has the mouth of Marilyn Monroe and the eyes of Caligula?""" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Nigel Short was the youngest champion in which game in 1984? A: Chess
Q: What did Woody Allen call his son as a tribute to Louis 'Satchmo' Armstrong? A: Satchel
Q: In 1984 how was the baby who received the heart of a baboon known? A: Baby Fae
Q: Which daughter of the last Tsar of Russia was said to have escaped to America? A: Anastasia
Q: Which soul singer is Whitney Houston's god mother? A: Aretha Franklin
Q: Which Russian-born American wrote I, Robot? A: Isaac Asimov
Q: In which state were Bonnie & Clyde killed? A: Louisiana
Q: Which Biblical name does Boris Becker's older son have? A: Noah
Q: President Kennedy was shot on 22nd November; what day was Lee Harvey Oswald shot? A: 24th November
Q: Who founded General Motors in 1908? A: William C. Durant
Q: What was Clive Sinclair's personal transport vehicle called? A: C5
Q: Who is Julian Lennon's step-mother? A: Yoko Ono
Q: Which American contralto was the first black singe to appear at the Metropolitan Opera? A: Marian Anderson
Q: Which American was the first ever person to retain an Olympic springboard diving title? A: Greg Louganis
Q: Which university did Tony Blair and Bill Clinton both attend in their younger days? A: Oxford
Q: What is the name of Paul and Linda McCartney's only son? A: James
Q: Who won the first men's US Tennis Open, in 1968? A: Arthur Ash
Q: Timothy McVeigh was convicted for which bombing? A: Oklahoma
Q: Who was Oliver North's secretary during the Irangate scandal? A: Fawn Hall
Q: Which singer married director Blake Edwards? A: Julie Andrews
Q: For which movie did Meryl Streep win her first Oscar? A: Kramer v Kramer
Q: In the 1990s Babrak Karmal and Sultan Ali Keshtmond have been Prime Minister in which country? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which 60s pop band made an unsuccessful movie called Head? A: The Monkees
Q: Who was Anne Sullivan's most famous pupil? A: Helen Keller
Q: Which state did Amelia Earhart land in on her first solo Pacific flight? A: California
Q: What is Billy Ocean's real name? A: Leslie Charles
Q: How was writer William Sydney Porter better known? A: O Henry
Q: What was The Zaire River called before 27th October 1971. A: Congo
Q: What was the profession of Thomas Eakins? A: Photographer
Q: Who was the defending champion when Andre Agassi first won Wimbledon singles? A: Michael Stich
Q: In what year was the Kellogg Company set up to manufacture cornflakes? A: 1906
Q: Which wartime classic was the title of a 1980 film with Hanna Schygulla & Mel Ferrer? A: Lili Marlene
Q: Who was the voice of Matt Dillon for 11 years on radio's Gunsmoke? A: William Conrad
Q: Which country does the airline Ladeco come from? A: Chile
Q: Oran international airport is in which country? A: Algeria
Q: Where did Johnny Ace die in 1954? A: Houston, Texas
Q: Who was the first chemist to be Britain's Prime Minister? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: What was Jimi Hendrix's middle name? A: Marshall
Q: In which month of the year did Bing Crosby record White Christmas? A: May
Q: Which country does the airline Transkei Airways come from? A: South Africa
Q: What was the last name of Judy in radio's A Date With Judy series? A: Foster
Q: Which hit starting with the word Rock took over NO 1 from Rock The Boat? A: Rock Your Baby
Q: In the 1940s, the University of North Carolina was founded at Charlotte and where else? A: Wilmington
Q: Christa McAuliffe died in an accident in what type of vehicle in 1986? A: Space Shuttle
Q: Who was Benazir Bhutto's Father who was executed in 1988? A: Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto
Q: Which form of death penalty was abolished by Francois Mitterrand? A: Guillotine
Q: Which capital city was the scene of a major summit between Reagan and Gorbachev in 1986? A: Reykjavik
Q: Which drink did the Coca Cola Company launch in 1982? A: Diet Coke
Q: Which telescope was launched into space on board a space shuttle in 1990? A: Hubble
Q: Jonas Salk developed the Salk vaccine against which disease? A: Polio
Q: Who constructed the world's first laser? A: Theodore Maiman
Q: Which Wisconsin salesman developed a safety razor in 1901? A: King Camp Gillette
Q: In which country were Daewoo cars originally produced? A: Korea
Q: Which toy company did Ruth and Elliot Handler found? A: Mattel
Q: Which Andre built the first factory to mass-produce rubber tires? A: Michelin
Q: Which film actor became mayor of Carmel, California in 1986? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: How did James F Fixx, promoter of jogging for good health, die in 1984? A: Heart attack while jogging
Q: How was Jean Claude Duvalier known before he ws exiled in 1986? A: Baby Doc
Q: From which UK airport did Virgin Atlantic flights first depart for New York-Newark? A: London Gatwick
Q: Great Briton fought which country over the Falkland Islands? A: Argentina
Q: Which oil tanker disastrously ran aground off 'Brittany in 1987? A: Amoco Cadiz
Q: Where did the US side of the Band Aid concert take place? A: Philadelphia
Q: Natan Sharansky was released from prison in the USSR to begin a new life where? A: Israel
Q: Which country celebrated its bicentenary in 1988? A: Australia
Q: The mother of which Monkee invented typewriter correction fluid? A: Mike Nesmith
Q: What type of aircraft is the Hawker Siddley Harrier? A: Jump Jet
Q: What does Volkswagen actually mean? A: People's car
Q: What does the Transalaska Pipeline System transport? A: Oil
Q: What was the name of the world's first nuclear-powered submarine? A: Nautilus
Q: Which American company pioneered electric ignition in motor cars? A: Cadillac
Q: Who invented the world's first photocopier? A: Chester Carlson
Q: Where were the 2002 Winter Olympic Games held? A: Salt Lake City
Q: "Who wrote the line, ""Do not go gentle into that good night?" A: Dylan Thomas
Q: Which musical instrument was found in Bonnie & Clyde's car after they were shot? A: Saxophone
Q: Which album was said to have reflected the end of Bob Dylan's marriage? A: Blood On The Tracks
Q: What was the only Fleetwood Mac track to top the singles charts in the 70s? A: Dreams
Q: In which country did Argentina first win soccer's World Cup? A: Argentina (1978)
Q: In Chaplin's The Great Dictator, which country did the dictator rule? A: Tomania
Q: What was the Aristocrat record label renamed? A: Chess
Q: Which President wrote Why England Slept about the rise of Fascism? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: Queen Alia international airport is in which country? A: Jordan
Q: Which space probe sent pictures from Mars in 1965? A: Mariner 4
Q: Which villain was played by Burgess Meredith in the 1960s Batman TV series? A: The Penguin
Q: In what year did regular Boeing 707 flights begin across he Atlantic? A: 1958
Q: Who became Queen of the Netherlands in 1980? A: Beatrix
Q: How many Billboard solo NO 1's did ex-Beatle Ringo Starr have? A: Two
Q: In what year did the New York subway open? A: 1903
Q: Which country does the airline Aero Lloyd come from? A: Germany
Q: How many prisoners were left in Alcatraz just before it closed? A: 27
Q: What was the name of the first weather satellite? A: Tiros
Q: Who directed the movie Trading Places? A: John Landis
Q: Where in Australia was swashbuckling Errol Flynn born? A: Hobart
Q: At what weight did boxer Chris Eubank win the WBO title in 1990? A: Middleweight
Q: Who featured with Bobby Brown on the No 1 She Ain't Worth It? A: Glenn Medeiros
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first album which did not have his name in the title? A: King Creole
Q: Where was golf's 1977 US Open held? A: Tulsa Oklahoma
Q: Who shared world amateur baseball championship with USA in1973? A: Cuba
Q: Who lost the first Super Bowl of the 70s? A: Minnesota Vikings
Q: How many times did the New York Yankees win the World Series in the 1970s? A: Twice
Q: Which team in the 80s won the Super Bowl by the biggest margin? A: Chicago Bears
Q: Where did Maurice Green set his 9.79 seconds for the 100m in 1999? A: Athens
Q: Who won baseball's first World Series of the 50s? A: New York Yankees
Q: Who was Jermaine O'Neal playing against when he made his debut in 1996? A: Denver Nuggets
Q: Who was the second American to win the Indianapolis 500 four times? A: Al Unser Sr
Q: Who was the Super Bowl MVP in 1979 and 1980. A: Terry Bradshaw
Q: In 1978 US Masters, who was leading Gary Player by seven strokes, only to lose by a single stroke? A: Hubert Green
Q: Where were the first World Athletics Championships held? A: Helsinki
Q: Which was the first team to win three Super Bowls? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: Who was the first MVP in a Super Bowl to be on the losing side? A: Chuck Howley
Q: Which team has not won a World Series since Babe Ruth stopped pitching for them? A: Boston Red Sox
Q: Who did Martina Navratilova beat to win her ninth Wimbledon title? A: Zina Garrison
Q: Who captained the US Ryder Cup team in 1991? A: Dave Stockton
Q: Which team in the 70s won the Super Bowl by the biggest margin? A: Oakland Raiders
Q: Who was the winner of the last Open at Carnoustie before Paul Lawrie? A: Tom Watson
Q: In what years did John Henry win the Arlington Million? A: 1981 & 1984
Q: Who was the first president of the National Football League? A: Jim Thorpe
Q: Who won the first all American French Open Men's Singles final for almost 40 years in the 90s? A: Jim Courier
Q: What was the first British-trained horse to run in the Kentucky Derby? A: Bold Arrangement
Q: In which sport did Eric Navet of France become a 1990 world champion? A: Show Jumping
Q: Who won baseball's first World Series of the 70s? A: Baltimore Orioles
Q: What was the original name of the Kansas City Chiefs? A: Dallas Texans
Q: In 1988 who won the tennis Grand Slam and Olympic gold? A: Steffi Graf
Q: Who was the first boxer to twice regain the world heavyweight title? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: Which Robin was the first yachtsman to sail non-stop around the world? A: Knox-Johnson
Q: Warren Beatty was offered full college scholarships in which sport? A: Football
Q: Billy Crystal had a full college scholarship in which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Who beat Jim Brown's rushing yards total of 12,312 yards in the 1980s? A: Walter Payton
Q: Who fought George Foreman in the Rumble In The Jungle? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: What was Hank Aaron's first Major League team? A: Milwaukee Braves
Q: Which country does marathon man Abel Anton come form? A: Spain
Q: Which was Hideo Nomo's first US baseball team? A: Los Angeles Dodgers
Q: With which track and field even was Geoff Capes particularly associated? A: Shot
Q: Which country does tennis player Marcelo Rios come from? A: Chile
Q: Where was the Rumble in the Ali v Foreman fight in Zaire in 1974? A: Jungle
Q: In which month is horse racing's Melbourne Cup held? A: November
Q: The Curragh is in which country? A: Ireland
Q: Which country hosts the Belmont and Preakness Stakes? A: United States
Q: In which decade did Joe Montana retire from football? A: 1990s
Q: Which African country does Nick Price come from? A: Zimbabwe
Q: What position did football great Jim Brown play? A: Fullback
Q: What is Magic Johnson's real first name? A: Earvin
Q: In baseball, when a team is pitching how many players do they have on the field? A: Nine
Q: Which golf tournament presents its winner with a green jacket? A: The Masters
Q: In which jumping event did Carl Lewis win Olympic gold's? A: Long Jump
Q: In football, what position is WR? A: Wide receiver
Q: The Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to winners of what? A: Super Bowl
Q: What was the nationality of the athletes killed at the 1972 Munich Olympics? A: Israeli
Q: The Prix du Jockey-Club is held at which race course? A: Chantilly
Q: In which decade did the Super Bowl begin? A: 1960s
Q: Who won golf's US Amateur Championship for the first time i n1994? A: Tiger Woods
Q: Which European won tennis's 1989 Men's Singles at the US Open? A: Boris Becker
Q: In which sport's globalization plan includes the ' Dream Team,' playing in the McDonald's Classic and the Three-on-Three Challenge? A: Basket ball
Q: Which country does boxer Vitali Klitschko come from? A: Ukraine
Q: In which state did Michael Jordan play college basketball? A: North Carolina
Q: With which university did Magic Johnson win the 1979 NCAA title? A: Michigan State
Q: Who won golf's US Open in 1994 and 1997? A: Ernie Els
Q: What has been won by Australia II and America 3? A: America's Cup
Q: Which university did Cheryl Miller attend? A: University of Southern California
Q: At which sport did Keanu Reeves excel while at high school? A: Hockey
Q: In Hockey, who did Maurice Rocket Richard play for? A: Montreal Canadians
Q: Golf star Vijay Singh comes form where? A: Fiji
Q: Kirk Douglas supplemented his acting earnings in his early years as what type of professional sportsman? A: Wrestler
Q: """The early days of which sport featured the Renshaw twins, the Baddeley twins and the Doherty brothers?" A: Tennis
Q: Who was known as the Manassa Mauler? A: Jack Dempsey
Q: What was Jane Russell's real first name? A: Ernestine
Q: Which singer-songwriter was born on the same day as actor Billy Dee Williams? A: Merle Haggard
Q: Where is the University of New Hampshire located? A: Durham
Q: What is the biggest studio in Hollywood called? A: Universal City
Q: Who was the first person to win the Indianapolis 500 six times? A: Al Unser
Q: Gunn-toting Wyatt Earp survived to what age? A: 80
Q: Which country does the airline Tower Air come from? A: USA
Q: In which country is the Bendorf bridge? A: Germany
Q: Which pop singer blamed his cocaine addiction of the break0-up of his relationship with Victoria principal? A: Andy Gibb
Q: Who had a 70s No 1 hit with The Night Chicago Died? A: Paper Lace
Q: What was Bob Hoskins' profession when he worked in the circus? A: Fire-eater
Q: Which state was Peggy Lee born in? A: North Dakota
Q: Who was the last man to win Wimbledon and the French open singles in the same year? A: Bjorn Borg
Q: Who directed the movie The Blues Brothers? A: John Landis
Q: In which country did the first Mickey Mouse comic appear? A: Italy
Q: What was the name of the island off Iceland which appeared in 1963 as a result of an underwater volcano? A: Surtsey
Q: Which band has featured Gregg Rolie, David Brown and Autlan de Bavarro? A: Santana
Q: Which US soap actress's real name is Patsy Mclenny? A: Morgan Fairchild
Q: In which state is the Creighton University? A: Nebraska
Q: In England, who was Princess Diana referring to when she said her marriage was ' a bit crowded?' A: Camilla Parker Bowles
Q: What is Brad Pitt's real first name? A: William
Q: What was Elton John's first album to enter the US charts at No 1? A: Captain Fantastic And The Brown Dirt Cowboy
Q: In which state was Quincy Jones born? A: Illinois
Q: Which country does the airline Norontair come form? A: Canada
Q: Which incident escalated US involvement in Vietnam? A: Tonkin Gulf incident
Q: What was Michael Jackson's last UK No 1 of the 80s? A: I Just Can't Stop Loving You
Q: The world's biggest what was made in Seymour, Wisconsin in August 1989? A: Hamburger
Q: Who was the original host of The Price Is Right? A: Bill Cullen
Q: In Makin' It, who was the John Travolta-type character? A: Billy Manucci
Q: Which Hollywood star starred in the 50s show My Three Sons? A: Fred MacMurray
Q: Who guested in Happy Days where his daughter was playing Jenny Piccalo? A: Phil Silvers
Q: The Flying Nun was based on which book? A: The Fifteenth Pelican
Q: The older Smothers Brother played what musical instrument? A: Guitar
Q: In the TV sitcom Adam's Rib, who played the Spencer Tracy Film role? A: Ken Howard
Q: What was the first sitcom where Mickey Rooney was not called Mickey? A: One of The Boys
Q: Which member of The A Team played Clubber Lang in Rocky III? A: Mr. T
Q: In Top Cat, who was the voice of Choo Choo? A: Marvin Kaplan
Q: Who played Leroy Johnson in the movie Fame and on TV? A: Gene Anthony Ray
Q: "Who did Mrs. Thatcher describe as ""a man we can do business with?""" A: Gorbachev
Q: How is Tenzin Gyatso better known? A: The Dali Lama
Q: Who did the Americans recognize as ruler of Vietnam in 1950 when the Soviets acknowledged Ho Chi Min? A: Bao Dai
Q: Who was the defeated Presidential candidate in the 1900 US election? A: William Jennings Bryan
Q: Who was the first leader of the Belgian Congo? A: Lumumba
Q: Who was Greece's first socialist Prime Minister? A: Papandreou
Q: Who was Pope during World War II? A: Pius XII
Q: Who was the youngest US Vice President of the 20th century? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who formulated his Sinatra Doctrine - Foreign policy to be constructed on a My Way basis? A: Eduard Shevardnadze
Q: Vaclav Havel and British King George VI both lost what part of their bodies? A: Lung
Q: Who was Oliver North's immediate boss who admitted authori8zing funding the Contra rebels in Nicaragua? A: John Poindexter
Q: Which ex-president died shortly after he death of Harry S. Truman? A: Lyndon B. Johnson
Q: Who was the first Democrat President of the 20th century? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Who was North Vietnam's chief negotiator at the '73 Paris peace talks? A: Le Duc Tho
Q: Who was the first president to be elected for a third four-year term? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: Which Secretary of State under Truman helped formulate the Marshall Plan? A: Dean Acheson
Q: Senator Joe McCarthly representred which state? A: Wisconsin
Q: Who did Roosevelt defeat when he won the 1932 election? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: Who was the oldest US President before Ronal Reagan? A: Dwight D. Eisenhower
Q: Dan Quayle was Senator form which state when he was chosen as George Bush's Vice President? A: Indiana
Q: Who was Walter Mondale's running mate in the 1984 election? A: Geraldine Ferraro
Q: What was Ronald Reagan's last movie? A: The Killers
Q: How many 'points for peace' did President Wilson announce in 1918? A: 14
Q: In which US state were the last summer Olympics of the century held? A: Georgia
Q: Who inflicted Nigel Benn's first defeat as a professional? A: Chris Eubank
Q: Who was non-playing captain of the US Davis Cup team in '81 and '82? A: Arthur Ash
Q: In which sport did Andy Thomson become a world champion? A: Bowls
Q: Which legendary American golfer played his last British Open in 1995? A: Arnold Palmer
Q: In which decade did Martina Navratilova take US citizenship? A: 1980s
Q: Who beat Carl Lewis's best time of 9.86 seconds for the 100 meters? A: Leroy Burrell
Q: Who won a record ninth Wimbledon singles title in 1990? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: On which course does the Kentucky Derby take place? A: Churchill Downs
Q: In women's field hockey, which country has won the most World Cups? A: Netherlands
Q: Who was the oldest US Open golf champion of the 20th century? A: Hale Irwin
Q: Who did Hubert Green beat to win the US PGA Championship in 1985? A: Lee Trevino
Q: Which team lost the first Super Bowl of the 1980s? A: Los Angeles Rams
Q: Which was the last horse before Nijinsky to win the English Triple Crown of 2000 Guineas, Epsom Derby and St. Leger? A: Bahram
Q: Which team won baseball's first World Series of the 60s? A: Pittsburg Pirates
Q: Which Bond movie used Stoke Poges golf club for some location shots? A: Goldfinger
Q: How many races did Ed Moses win in succession between '77 and '87? A: 122
Q: Which team won the most Super Bowls in the 1980s? A: San Francisco 49ers
Q: Anton Geesink was the first non-Japanese judoka to win a judo world championship, but which country did he come from? A: Netherlands
Q: Who was the defending champion when Chris Evert first won Wimbledon singles? A: Billie Jean King
Q: Who was Super Bowl MVP in successive years in 1967 and 1968? A: Bart Star
Q: Who won the most men's US Open tennis titles in the 20th century? A: Bill Tilden
Q: Pong was an early console type of game based on which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: How many bits are there in a byte? A: Eight
Q: What is a message sent to a newsgroup in the Internet called?| A: Article
Q: Which page of a Web site is called a Home Page? A: First
Q: In addition to the computer, what else must a modem be plugged into? A: Phone
Q: What letter appears on the computer screen when you are using Microsoft Internet Explorer? A: E
Q: Where does a bounced email return to? A: Sender
Q: What name is given to the software program needed to access the Web? A: Browser
Q: What goes after Netscape in the name of a popular Internet browser? A: Navigator
Q: If you have an active Internet connection, you are said to be on what? A: On line
Q: A newbie is a new what? A: Internet user
Q: In an e mail address, how is a symbol like a period said out loud? A: Dot
Q: Which cartoons are associated with Kim Casalli? A: Love Is
Q: What is Dionne Warwick's real first name? A: Marie
Q: On which special day did Charlie Chaplin die in 1977? A: Christmas Day
Q: Amilcar Cabral international airport is in which country? A: Cape Verde
Q: In 1993, Michael Jackson give his first TV interview in 14 years with which talk show presenter? A: Oprah Winfrey
Q: What was the last top ten hit for Connie Francis? A: Vacation
Q: Where is the University of Delaware located? A: Newark
Q: Which country's invasion of Ethiopia in 1935 forced Haile Selassie to flee? A: Italy
Q: Who directed the 1951 classic movie The Day The Earth Stood Still? A: Robert Wise
Q: Who wrote the novel The Left Hand Of Darkness? A: Ursula Le Guin
Q: What is Neil Simon's real first name? A: Marvin
Q: Augusto C Sandino international airport is in which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: What was the second Oscar Hammerstein show to win the Pulitzer Prize? A: South Pacific
Q: Lionel Hampton played on which band until forming his own in1941? A: Benny Goodman
Q: In what year was indoor handball introduced as an Olympic event for men? A: 1972
Q: Which country does the airline Air Littoral come from? A: France
Q: In which country was Emilio Estevez born? A: USA
Q: What was the Blue Swede's only No 1 hit? A: Hooked On A Feeling
Q: New York-born Sir Jacob Epstein worked in which branch of the arts? A: Sculpture
Q: What year was the centenary of Colorado joining the Union? A: 1976
Q: In which country is the Angostura bridge? A: Venezuela
Q: What is Elle Macpherson's real name? A: Eleanor Gow
Q: Which instrument is associated with Lester 'Prez' Young? A: Saxophone
Q: Who penned Kenny Rogers' No 1 hit Lady? A: Lionel Richie
Q: Who had a 50s No 1 with Heartaches By The Number? A: Guy Mitchell
Q: In which country was power seized in the 70s by the Gang of Four? A: China
Q: At which sport did Jonah Barrington win international success? A: Squash
Q: What was the nationality of composer Aaron Copland? A: American
Q: What was the occupation of Edith Cavell who was shot by the Germans in WWI? A: Nurse
Q: How did Satyajit Ray achieve fame? A: Film Director
Q: Which Japanese company bought CBS records in 1988? A: Sony
Q: How many of Mark Spitz's Olympic golds were for solo events? A: Four
Q: Who made the album Honky Tonk Angels with Dolly Parton and Tammy Wynette? A: Loretta Lynn
Q: How many Nobel prizes did Marie curie win? A: Two
Q: In which country is the deepwater port of Belem? A: Brazil
Q: The Chinook blows down which mountains? A: Rocky Mountains
Q: In which country was Michael J. Fox born? A: Canada
Q: To the nearest million, how mjch did Heavan's Gate lose for United Artists? A: 30
Q: From which show does Love Changes Everything come from? A: Aspects of Love
Q: Under which name did Leonard Slye ride across the silver screen? A: Roy Rogers
Q: Who directed The Deer Hunter? A: Michael Cimino
Q: What color is Laa Laa of the Teletulbbies? A: Yellow
Q: Who was the most recent Democrat before Clinton to be reelected for a second term as US President? A: Roosevelt
Q: A-Ha sang the title song for which Bond film? A: The Living Daylights
Q: Which Russian writer wrote Cancer Ward? A: Alexander Solzhenitsyn
Q: Which summer month is the title of an album by Eric Clapton? A: August
Q: In the Simpsons, which Hollywood superstar provided Maggie's first word? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: Which writer came up with Catch 22 in the 60s? A: Joseph Heller
Q: Bourgas international airport is in which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: Who did Pope John Paul II succeed as Pope? A: John Paul I
Q: What was the full first name of the President who gave his name to Teddy Bears? A: Theodore
Q: Donald Woods escaped from where in 1979, later the subject of the film Cry Freedom? A: South Africa
Q: Which Austrian wrote The Psychopathology of Everyday Life? A: Freud
Q: Which Chinese leader's widow was arrested for trying to overthrow the government in the 19780s? A: Mao Tse Tung
Q: Who is the famous mother of Elijah Blue? A: Cher
Q: What was the occupation of Roger Moore's father? A: Policeman
Q: Picasso moved to Paris in 1901 but where was he born? A: Spain
Q: Who published the General Theory of Relativity in 1915? A: Albert Einstein
Q: In 1968 the Oscars were postponed for 48 hours because of whose death? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Who replaced Mary Robinson as president of Ireland in 1997? A: Mary McAleese
Q: How old was Douglas Fairbanks when he married 23-year-old Joan Crawford? A: 19
Q: Which future President made the famous Checkers Speech in 1952? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who succeeded Lal Bahadur Shasrtri as Prime Minister of India? A: Indira Gandhi
Q: Which Russian imposed a reign of terror during the 30s and 40s? A: Stalin
Q: Who led India to overthrow British rule by non-violent means? A: Gandhi
Q: In which Sydney cathedral sis Michael Hutchence's funeral take place? A: St. Andrew's
Q: Who's best-known stage role was as Regina in The Little Foxes? A: Tallulah Bankhead
Q: Who became chief designer at Givenchy in 1996? A: Alexander McQueen
Q: By 1999 how may times had Jane Fonda been Oscar nominated? A: Seven
Q: Who was the only 20th century President to get stuck in the White House bath tub as he was so big? A: William Howard Taft
Q: Who led a government in Italy in the 20s and later became its dictator?> A: Mussolini
Q: Richard Gere won a scholarship to the University of Massachusetts in which sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: "Which 70s US President said, ""I know I'm getting better at golf because I'm hitting fewer spectators?" A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which golfer announced he was leaving his wife and three children for Brenna Cepalak in 1996? A: Nick Faldo
Q: Madeleine Gurdon is the third wife of which millionaire? A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: What relation was Henry Ford II to Henry Ford? A: Grandson
Q: Which world leader married Graca Machel in 1998? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Salvador Allende was elected president of which country in 1970? A: Chile
Q: What was the profession of President Jean Bertrand Aristide of Haiti? A: Priest
Q: What was the name of Frank Sinatra's last wife? A: Barbara
Q: Who did Idi Amin depose in 1971? A: Milton Obote
Q: Hafez al Assad was the first democratically elected President of which country? A: Syria
Q: Which Russian leader was buried in 1998 in his family's vault? A: Tsar Nicholas II
Q: Who was Britain's last Prime Minister of the 20th century? A: Tony Blair
Q: In which North African country was Yves St. Laurent born as Henri Donat Mathieu? A: Algeria
Q: Which Yuri was president of the USSR for two years after heading the KGB for 15 years? A: Andropov
Q: What is Madonna's daughter called? A: Lourdes Maria
Q: Who replaced King Hussein as King of Jordan? A: Abdullah
Q: Which child of Princess Grace of Monaco competed in the 1988 Olympics? A: Prince Albert
Q: Which British Prime Minister signed the Anglo-Irish Agreement in 1985? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: Who presented the first Oscars? A: Douglas Fairbanks
Q: "Michel Aoun led which then unsettled Middle ""Eastern country form 1988-1990?" A: Lebanon
Q: On whose show did Elvis Presley appear when 82% of the TV audience tuned in? A: Ed Sullivan
Q: "Who with Arafat and ""Rabin received the Nobel Peace prize in 1994?" A: Peres
Q: Which movie was Clark Gable making when he died? A: The Misfits
Q: Which French Prime Minister's funeral was attended by his wife and his mistress in 1996? A: Francois Mitterrand
Q: Which multi-million-dollar sport is Bernie Ecclestone associated with? A: Motor racing
Q: "Who succeeded ""Anwar Sadat as President of Egypt?" A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: Which movie star married jockey Robyn Smith in 1980? A: Fred Astaire
Q: How old was Orson Welles when he made Citizen Kane? A: 25
Q: Which South African President repealed key parts of apartheid law in 1991? A: FW De Klerk
Q: I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair came from which show? A: South Pacific
Q: Who wrote the words for My Fair Lady and Camelot? A: Alan Jay Lerner
Q: Which musical was a reworking of Puccini's Madame Butterfly? A: Miss Saigon
Q: In which country was Frederick Loewe born? A: Austria
Q: The King in the King and I is ruler of where? A: Siam
Q: Which show about Danny and Sandy was made into a film with John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John. A: Grease
Q: Which show was based on the autobiography of Gypsy Rose Lee? A: Gypsy
Q: Aspects of what was a success by Andrew Lloyd Webber? A: Love
Q: What type of shop was the Little Shop of Horrors? A: Florist's
Q: Which show was based on Miguel de Cervantes' Don Quixote? A: Man of La Mancha
Q: Which musical was based on the life of Annie Oakley? A: Annie Get Your Gun
Q: What was the name of the first hippie musical? A: Hair
Q: Which show does I Don't Know How To Love Him come from? A: Jesus Christ Superstar
Q: Which show, starring Robert Preston and Barbara Cook on Broadway? A: The Music Man
Q: What was Jesus Christ according to the Rice / Lloyd Webber show? A: Superstar
Q: Which Line was the longest running musical in Broadway history? A: A Chorus Line
Q: Which American city saw the premiere of Sunset Boulevard? A: Los Angeles
Q: Which ground-breaking American musical was based on the book Green Grow The Lilacs? A: Oklahoma
Q: Which Lloyd Webber musical was billed as 'Now and forever'? A: Cats
Q: What did the Little Shop hold in the movie which premiered in 1982? A: Horrors
Q: Which star Fred starred in vaudeville with his sister Adele? A: Astaire
Q: On whose fable was Guys and Dolls based? A: Damon Runyan
Q: Which show featured Hernando's Hideaway and Hey There? A: The Pajama Game
Q: Which Fanny was the subject of Funny Girl? A: Brice
Q: Which musical was Lerner and Loewe's last major success, in 1960? A: Camelot
Q: Which musical about King Arthur became a byword for the JFK years? A: Camelot
Q: Annie Warbucks was the sequel to which one-word-titled musical? A: Annie
Q: In which city is the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery and Museum? A: Swansea
Q: What is the second largest of the Ionian Islands? A: Corfu
Q: "What color did Air France repaint some ""Concorde jets to advertize Pepsi?" A: Blue
Q: How is the Eurotunnel also known? A: Channel tunnel
Q: Which British monarch popularized the Homgburg which came from the German town of the same name? A: Edward VII
Q: Where is the French terminus for the Hoverspeed service? A: Boulogne
Q: In which country was the Angel of the North erected in 1998? A: England
Q: What is Switzerland's largest City? A: Zurich
Q: In which European country did Spice Girl Victoria Adams marry? A: Ireland
Q: What name is given to the popular holiday area between Marseille and La Spezia? A: Riviera
Q: What is the oldest university in Northern Ireland called -- founded in 1908? A: Queen's University
Q: Which British architect was responsible with Renzo Piano for the Famous Pompidou Centre in Paris? A: Richard Rogers
Q: In Which European city would you go to the Bardini Museum and the Bargello Museum? A: Florence
Q: What is the name of the lake which remained when the Zuider Zee was closed and reclaimed in 1932? A: Ijsselmeer
Q: Syracuse is part of New York, but where does it exist in Europe? A: Sicily
Q: Sullom Voe is famous for exporting which commodity? A: Oil
Q: In which European city is the Atomium? A: Brussels
Q: How are Belgian World Airlines also known? A: SABENA
Q: Which tourist islands include the lesser known Majorca and Minorca? A: Balearics
Q: Which country lies to the north of Austria and to the south of Poland? A: Czech Republic
Q: Where is the Optimisticeskaja Cave, the second longest in the world? A: Ukraine
Q: How many independent 'Baltic states' are there? A: Three
Q: Which winter sports venue, home of the Cresta Run, has hosted two Olympic Games in the 20th century? A: St. Moritz
Q: What is farther north Hungary, or Bulgaria? A: Hungary
Q: What is Ireland's longest river and greatest source of electric power? A: Shannon
Q: "How many countries does the river ""Danube pass through?" A: Seven
Q: Where would you spend stotinki? A: Bulgaria
Q: When did Euro Disney, now Disneyland Paris, open? A: 1992
Q: The Simpleton Tunnel links Italy with which country? A: Switzerland
Q: On which sea does Croatia stand? A: Adriatic
Q: What is the longest river in Portugal, and the fifth longest in Europe? A: Tagus
Q: Which French phrase described an innovative movement in the cinema? A: Nouvelle vague
Q: Which actor became playwright Arthur Miller's son-in-law in 1997? A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: Who first coined the term cybernetics? A: Norbert Wiener
Q: Who played Tarzan in the first two Tarzan films? A: Elmo Lincoln
Q: Which film director was Anthony Quinn's father-in-law? A: Cecil B de Mille
Q: Who wrote the screenplay for The Crying Game? A: Neil Jordan
Q: Who was the first freely elected Marxist president in Latin America? A: Allende
Q: Who was the first black student at the University of Alabama? A: Autherine Lucy
Q: Who invented the liquid fuel powered rocket? A: Robert H. Goddard
Q: Who was Geena Davis's husband when they made the loss-maker Cutthroat Island? A: Renny Harlin
Q: Which novelist appeared in the film Day For Night? A: Graham Greene
Q: In 1993 who tried to buy the rights of his first movie Sizzle Beach USA? A: Kevin Costner
Q: What is Barbra Streisand's middle name? A: Joan
Q: Who was William Taft's Vice President between 1909 and 1912? A: James S. Sherman
Q: Who invented the Polaroid camera? A: Edwin Herbert Land
Q: How many films had Christopher Reeve made before Superman in 1978? A: One
Q: Who owned the LA nightclub The Viper Room at the time of River Phoenix's death there in 1993? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Who won the first of his Nobel prizes in 1956 for research which led to the invention of the transistor? A: John Bardeen
Q: Which electrical engineer invented the triode valve in 1907? A: Lee De Forest
Q: Who performed the first artificial heart transplant? A: William DeVries
Q: In which movie did Bogart have his first gangster part? A: The Petrified Forest
Q: Which film maker's first film was Pather Panchali? A: Satyajit Ray
Q: Who designed the Geodesic Dome in the US Pavilion at the 1967 Montréal's World's Fair exhibition? A: Buckminster Fuller
Q: How is Paul Reubens also known in the film and TV world? A: Pee Wee Herman
Q: Who founded the magazine Camera Work? A: Alfred Stieglitz
Q: How long is Indianapolis's most famous motor race? A: 500 miles
Q: On which river was the Grand Coulee built? A: Columbia
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Like A Prayer? A: Madonna
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Let's Hear It For The Boy? A: Deniece Williams
Q: Where in America is the Rockefeller University? A: New York
Q: Which musical instrument did Stan Getz play? A: Tenor saxophone
Q: Which musical featured the song Tonight? A: West Side Story
Q: What kind of orchard did Chekhov write a play about? A: Cherry
Q: Truman Capote wrote about Breakfast at which place? A: Tiffany's
Q: On a computer keyboard which letter on the same line is immediately right of the O? A: P
Q: Abyssinia has become known as what? A: Ethiopia
Q: Cass Gilbert was the major developer of what type of building? A: Skyscraper
Q: In which state was Madonna born? A: Michigan
Q: Who became speaker of the house of representatives in 1995? A: Newt Gingrich
Q: John Glenn became Senator for which state? A: Ohio
Q: The Battle Of New Orleans was a big No 1 for which singer? A: Johnny Horton
Q: What are the international registration letters of a vehicle from Mexico? A: MEX
Q: In which cop series did Phil Collins appear as Phil the Shill? A: Miami Vice
Q: The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face was featured in which Clint Eastwood film? A: Play Misty For Me
Q: Who performed He's A Tramp in the Disney movie Lady And The Tramp? A: Peggy Lee
Q: In which Center is he Metropolitan Opera House? A: Lincoln Center
Q: Jersey Joe Walcott was a world champion in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Where in Lybia did Australian troops take a seaport occupied by the Italians in 1941? A: Tobruk
Q: What was the last No1 hit for the Everly Brothers? A: Cathy's Clown
Q: Where is the Great White Way? A: New York (Broadway)
Q: Which mountains stretch from West Virginia to Georgia? A: Blue Ridge Mountains
Q: According to the inventor Thomas Edison genius is made up how many percent of inspiration? A: One
Q: Who produced the first Chinook helicopter in 1961? A: Boeing
Q: Which C S wrote The African Queen? A: Forester
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 with Everyday People? A: Sly & The Family Stone
Q: Who had an 80s No 1 with Lady? A: Kenny Rogers
Q: Igor Sikorsky developed which means of transport? A: Helicopter
Q: Which widow of a rock star appeared in Dallas? A: Priscilla Presley
Q: Who wrote the novel The Power and The Glory? A: Graham Greene
Q: The German terrorist group The Red Army Faction were more usually known as which Gang? A: Baader-Meinhof Gang
Q: What was the first name of the fictional sleuth Baretta? A: Tony
Q: What was Diana Ross's first solo No 1? A: Ain't No Mountain High Enough
Q: Which Argentinean became conductor of the New York Philharmonic in 1970? A: Daniel Barenboim
Q: Which Bond girl was Honor Blackman? A: Pussy Galore
Q: Which Latvian was principal dancer with the American Ballet Theater in the 70s returning later as director? A: Mikhail Baryshnikov
Q: Hard-rock group Motley Crue come from which city? A: Los Angeles
Q: Cindy Birdsong was a member of which singing group? A: Supremes
Q: Which movie won Marlon Brando his second Oscar? A: The Godfather
Q: On a Monopoly board, what are B & O, Reading, Short Line and Pennsylvania? A: Stations
Q: The Harry Lime theme was used in which film? A: The Third Man
Q: Which city hosts the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival? A: New York
Q: What was the profession of Burt Reynolds' father? A: Police Officer
Q: Which golfer Sandy triumphed at the US Masters? A: Lyle
Q: Who became the world's youngest ever boxing heavyweight champion? A: Mike Tyson
Q: What was the world's first reusable spacecraft called? A: Space Shuttle
Q: What was Patricia Highsmith's first novel? A: Strangers On A Train
Q: In which war was cowboy star Tom MIx shot in the mouth? A: Spanish American War
Q: How many years did the Holocaust last? A: 12
Q: "Which soap had people asking. ""Who shot JR?""" A: Dallas
Q: Which tennis ace completed his fifth successive Wimbledon singles triumph? A: Bjorn Borg
Q: Who replaced Erich Honecker as GDR head of state? A: Egon Krenz
Q: Off which pitcher did Babe Ruth smash his 714th and final Major League home run? A: Guy Bush
Q: Which US President was linked with the 'Star Wars' policy? A: Reagan
Q: Where in the Ukraine was there a nuclear explosion in 1986? A: Chernobyl
Q: Anwar Sadat was President of which country when he died in 1981? A: Egypt
Q: Who released an album called Thriller in 1982? A: Michael Jackson
Q: In what month in 1990 did Iraq invade Kuwait? A: August
Q: Which island was the home of Bob Marley, who died in 1981? A: Jamaica
Q: Which John portrayed The Elephant Man on film? A: Hurt
Q: Hahnium was so named by US scientists in honor of Otto Hahn; what was its original name? A: Unnilpentium
Q: Which movement was thought to be responsible for the kidnapping of Western hostages in Lebanon in the 890s? A: Hezbollah
Q: Who was Franklin ?D Roosevelt's secretary of state from 1933 to 1944? A: Cordell Hull
Q: Sarah Ferguson became Duchess of where? A: York
Q: Tiananmen Square was a scene of conflict in which country? A: China
Q: Which disks replaced cassettes and ordinary records? A: Compact disks
Q: In which natural valley is San Jose? A: Santa Clara
Q: In which Chicago theater did over 500 people die in a fire in 1903? A: Iroquois Theater
Q: Which couple were implicated in the Whitewater affair? A: The Clintons
Q: Who did James Earl Ray shoot in Memphis in April 1968? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Where was the first nuclear reactor built, by Enrico Fermi? A: Chicago
Q: Which state on the Gulf of Mexico has the longest name? A: Mississippi
Q: The Rotary Club was founded in 1905 in which American City? A: Chicago
Q: Where is the HQ of Chrysler and General Motors? A: Detroit
Q: In All In The Family, what was Archie's son-in-law's full name? A: Mike Stivic
Q: What is the architectural style of the Radio City Music Hall in New York? A: Art Deco
Q: On which river is the USA's highest concrete dam? A: Colorado
Q: Near which town were there reports of a space ship landing on the 4th July 1947? A: Roswell, New Mexico
Q: Where was the World Fair held in 1903? A: St. Louis
Q: Which singer had the first names Harry Lillis? A: Bing Crosby
Q: What was the San Francisco Ballet formerly called? A: San Francisco Opera Ballet
Q: Parker and Barrow were more usually known as what? A: Bonnie and Clyde
Q: Al Capone was finally nailed for what crime? A: Tax evasion
Q: Alcatraz was in which Bay? A: San Francisco
Q: Which 20s gangland boss was nicknamed Scarface? A: Al Capone
Q: Where is the Valley of the Kings, the scene of a terrorist attack in 1997? A: Egypt
Q: Irish Olympic champion Michelle smith was suspended in 1999 over drug allegations in which sport? A: Swimming
Q: Colombian underworld boss Pablo Escobar dealt in what commodity? A: Drugs
Q: Which actress Sharon was murdered by Charles Manson? A: Tate
Q: In which state was the 1999 massacre at Columbine High? A: Colorado
Q: What was supposedly the profession of Sweeney Todd in London? A: Barber
Q: In 1990, Idaho and which other state celebrated the centenary of joining the Union? A: Wyoming
Q: What is the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands? A: Maui
Q: Who founded the New York City ballet in 1928? A: Balanchine
Q: Who followed Calvin Coolidge as US President? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: What nickname was given to the group of performers which included Sammy Davis Jr. and Frank Sinatra? A: The Rat Pack
Q: In which state was Bruce Springsteen born? A: New Jersey
Q: In which decade was the National University, San Diego, California founded? A: 1970s
Q: In the first ever Bugs Bunny cartoon, which character tried to kill him? A: Elmer Fudd
Q: Which star of the Back To The Future movies appeared in Caroline In the City? A: Lea Thompson
Q: The Mackenzie River flows form which lake to the ocean? A: Great Slave Lake
Q: Which Mexican port was seized by US marines in 1914 to prevent the import of German arms for rebel groups? A: Veracruz
Q: In which language did The Singing Nun sing when she topped the singles charts? A: French
Q: Who recorded the albums Blue and Court And Spark? A: Joni Mitchell
Q: How many Madison Square Gardens have there been before the existing one? A: Three
Q: Which road bisects the Balboa Park in San Diego? A: El Prado
Q: In which city was the pinball machine invented? A: Chicago
Q: What was the name of the first Hollywood movie released by D W Griffith in 1910? A: In Old California
Q: In Chaplin's The Great Dictator, what was the dictator's name? A: Adenoid Hynkel
Q: To which conductor did Vaughan Williams dedicate his 8th Symphony? A: Barbirolli
Q: Who wrote the book on which the musical Whistle Down the Wind was based? A: Mary Hayley Bell
Q: In what country was British choreographer Sir Frederick Ashton born? A: Ecuador
Q: Where was blues singer Leadbelly when he was 'discovered' musically? A: Prison
Q: Most of the Three Tenors come from which country? A: Spain
Q: Who is taller, Holly Hunter or Madonna? A: Madonna
Q: What is Ryan O'Neal's real first name? A: Patrick
Q: Who wrote the song Mad Dogs And Englishmen? A: Noel Coward
Q: Who wrote the children's classic The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe? A: C. S. Lewis
Q: The first Miss World came from which country? A: Sweden
Q: For which movie did Spielberg win his first Oscar? A: Schindler's List
Q: Which part did Michael Jackson play in The Wiz? A: The Scarecrow
Q: What was advertised by Rod Stewart and Tina Turner's version of It Takes Two? A: Pepsi
Q: Which brothers bought Shepperton movie studios in 1994? A: Scott
Q: Which studios did the Rank Organization open in 1936? A: Pinewood
Q: Who made the film Renaldo and Clara with Bob Dylan? A: Joan Baez
Q: Which British composer wrote the theme music for the film Murder on the Orient Express? A: Richard Rodney Bennett
Q: The expression Great White Hope was used to describe which black boxer's opponents? A: Jack Johnson
Q: Who was the German soldier in Rowan and Martin's Laugh In? A: Artie Johnson
Q: Who had a 1980s No 1 hit with Shakedown? A: Bob Seger
Q: How many Gilbert & Sullivan operas are there? A: 13
Q: Michael Jackson's Will You Be There came from which movie? A: Free Willy
Q: Who had a 60s No 1 hit with The Theme From a Summer Place? A: Percy Faith
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar for Platoon? A: Oliver Stone
Q: Who wrote the very last episode of Seinfeld? A: Larry David
Q: In 1997 which airline replaced the flag on its tail fin with ethnic designs from around the world? A: British Airways
Q: Where did Anne Frank die? A: Belsen
Q: In which city was the peace treaty ending the Vietnam war signed? A: Paris
Q: What was Scotland's answer to California's Silicon Valley called? A: Silicon Glen
Q: What was St. Petersburg called for most of the 20th century? A: Leningrad
Q: What is London's biggest airport called? A: Heathrow
Q: Which country is locked within Belgium, Germany and France? A: Luxembourg
Q: In which category did Marie Curie win her second Nobel Prize? A: Chemistry
Q: What is the largest inland port in Europe? A: Hamburg, Germany
Q: In Nazi Germany, what was Endloslung? A: The Final Solution
Q: Who was Hitler's Prime Minister in Prussia? A: Goering
Q: Where in England is the location of the Glastonbury Festival? A: Pilton
Q: The Channel Islands are in which Channel? A: English Channel
Q: The French region of Grasse is famous for making what? A: Perfume
Q: Which was the last country in mainland Europe to switch from driving on the left? A: Sweden
Q: In which year did Britain's lease on Hong Kong officially expire? A: 1997
Q: Which Norwegian explorer did Robert Feary beat to the North Pole? A: Roald Amundsen
Q: """A bridge too far"" referred to airborne landings in which country?" A: Netherlands
Q: Who founded the Cubism movement with Picasso? A: Braque
Q: "What is the name shared by the currency units of ""Algeria and Tunisia?" A: Dinar
Q: Mount Toubkai is the highest peak of which range of mountains? A: Atlas Mountains
Q: "In which township were 69 demonstrators killed by South ""African police in March 1960?" A: Sharpeville
Q: What is the former name of the People's Republic of Benin? A: Dohomey
Q: Which country is the home of the Ashanti? A: Ghana
Q: Where did Idi Amin rule from 1971 -1979? A: Uganda
Q: In which country are the ruins of ancient Carthage? A: Tunisia
Q: In which country does the White Nile leave Lake Victoria? A: Uganda
Q: Which African explorer translated the Arabian Nights? A: Richard Burton
Q: After which American President is the capital of Liberia named? A: James Monroe
Q: In which country were the Mau-0Mau a secret guerrilla movement? A: Kenya
Q: Who was the Danish author of Out of Africa? A: Karen Blixen
Q: Which new city in Nigeria has been shaped like a crescent, and has replaced Lagos as capital? A: Abuja
Q: Where did the Gang of Four try to size power in 1976? A: China
Q: Which Asian city hosted the 1988 Olympic Games? A: Seoul
Q: Who was emperor of Japan during world War II? A: Hirohito
Q: What is the capital of Saudi Arabia? A: Riyadh
Q: Of which country is Vientiane the capital? A: Laos
Q: Who was the Mongol ruler who conquered Persia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Georgia in the 14th Century? A: Tamerlane
Q: Which sea lies between china and Korea? A: Yellow Sea
Q: In which modern country are the ports of Sidon and Tyer? A: Lebanon
Q: The West Bank of which river has been occupied by Israel since 1967? A: Jordan
Q: Which 15th-century navigator discovered the sea route from Europe to India by the Cape of Good Hope? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: What did Burma change its name to in 1989? A: Myanmar
Q: A 25 km causeway, the longest in the world, links Saudi Arabia with which other country? A: Bahrain
Q: Beside which river are the Indian cities of Delhi and Agra? A: Jumna
Q: On which inland sea do the ports of Astrakhan and Baku lie? A: Caspian Sea
Q: Which country was suspended from the Arab League for ten years from 1979? A: Egypt
Q: With what is the Japanese art of bonsai concerned? A: Miniature Trees
Q: By what name was Thailand known until 1939? A: Siam
Q: What kind of wild cattle with shaggy coats and upturned horns live in the mountains of Tibet? A: Yak
Q: Which 13th-century Mongol warlord controlled probably a larger area than anyone in history, from the Yellow Sea to the Black Sea? A: Genghis Khan
Q: Which is the largest city in India? A: Calcutta
Q: What is the dominant classical language of the Indian subcontinent? A: Sanskrit
Q: What nationality are the Gurkhas, who have fought for the British and Indian armies since 1815? A: Nepalese
Q: Which major export of Bangladesh is used to make sacking? A: Jute
Q: What was the former name of Iran? A: Persia
Q: Which river runs 1,560 miles to the Bay of Bengal? A: Ganges
Q: Which sheikhdom is the capital of the United Arab Emirates? A: Abu Dhabi
Q: Which native East Asian plant is the richest natural vegetable food? A: Soya
Q: What is the capital of Hong Kong? A: Victoria
Q: "Who founded the modern republic of Turkey and, in 1934, took a name meaning ""Father of the Turks""?" A: Kemal Ataturk
Q: What is the Japanese product kakiemon? A: Porcelain
Q: Which river with a vast delta to the South china Sea rises as the Za Qu in Tibet? A: Mekong
Q: Isfahan is a major city in which country? A: Iran
Q: Who was supposed to have told the Arabian Nights tales? A: Scheherazade
Q: Which is the highest mountain in the Alps? A: Mont Blanc
Q: Which country is divided into cantons? A: Switzerland
Q: In which Italian city would you find Leonardo's Last Supper? A: Milan
Q: Which is Italy's longest river? A: Po
Q: On which river does Verona stand? A: Adige
Q: From which country did Iceland become independent in 1944? A: Denmark
Q: In which capital city is the Tivoli amusement park? A: Copenhagen
Q: On which river does Prague stand? A: Vltava
Q: Which European country restored its monarchy in 1975? A: Spain
Q: In which autonomous region of Spain are the cities of Cadiz and Cordoba? A: Andalusia
Q: Which European country colonized Brazil? A: Portugal
Q: Which country was defeated by the USSR in the Winter War of 1939? A: Finland
Q: What is the name of the bay between northern Spain and western France, known for its rough seas? A: Bay of Biscay
Q: Which city linked by canal with Rotterdam and Amsterdam, is the seat of the Netherlands government? A: The Hague
Q: Which is the largest island in the Mediterranean Sea? A: Sicily
Q: Which city was the capital of West Germany from 1949 to 1990? A: Bonn
Q: In which country did Grand Duke Jean become head of state in 1964? A: Luxembourg
Q: In which country was Pope John Paul II a cardinal before his election? A: Poland
Q: Which country has as its joint heads of state a Spaniard and a Frenchman? A: Andorra
Q: In which country was Adolf Hitler born? A: Austria
Q: Which two colors appear on the flag of Greece? A: Blue and white
Q: Which is further north, Corsica or Sardinia? A: Corsica
Q: Which European country left the Commonwealth and declared itself a republic in 1949? A: Eire
Q: In which capital city were the treaties signed that established the European Economic Community? A: Rome
Q: Which country was ruled for 40 years by the dictator Antonio Salazar? A: Portugal
Q: What nationality was the 16th-century poet and soldier Camoens? A: Portuguese
Q: Which group had most seats in the European Parliament after the 1989 election - the left, the centre or the right? A: The Left
Q: Of which island is Valletta the capital? A: Malta
Q: In Norway, what are Hardanger and Sogne? A: Fjords
Q: In which Polish city was the Solidarity union formed in 1989? A: Gdansk
Q: Which French river flows into the sea at St. Nazaire and is famous for its chateaux? A: Loire
Q: In which city does the Council of Europe sit? A: Strasbourg
Q: In which year were East and West Germany unified? A: 1990
Q: On which of the Greek islands did Bacchus find Ariadne, according to legend? A: Naxos
Q: Which country's parliament is called the Storting? A: Norway
Q: "Which German city is known as ""Aix-la-Chapelle in French?" A: Aachen
Q: What emblem appears on the flag of Albania? A: Eagle
Q: Where did Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin meet in 1945 to plan the final defeat of Germany? A: Yalta
Q: Which country first tried unsuccessfully to build the Panama Canal? A: France
Q: Which family ruled Florence for three centuries from 1434? A: Medici
Q: Who were the Celtic-speaking peoples living in France and Belgium during Roman times? A: Gauls
Q: Which battle of 1746 ended the Jacobite revolution? A: Culloden
Q: "What Soviet ""man of steel"" was educated for the priesthood but was expelled from the seminary?" A: Joseph Stalin
Q: What country sold land including the present-day states of Louisiana, Arkansas, and Oklahoma to the USA in 1803? A: France
Q: Which British monarch married Anne of Denmark? A: James I
Q: Which US president was shot five days after the end of the American Civil War? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: """What was the name of the Austrian-born dictator who succeeded Hindenburg as Germany's head of state?" A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who was the black educationist who was born a slave but became a leader in the search for civil rights in the early 1900s? A: Booker T. Washington
Q: "Which French revolutionary was nicknamed ""the Incorruptible""?" A: Robespierre
Q: Where did Florence Nightingale establish a hospital to treat casualties of the Crimean War? A: Scutari
Q: Which rebellion was effectively ended by the Battle of Culloden? A: Jacobite rebellion
Q: Who was the first president of independent Kenya?| A: Jomo Kenyatta
Q: Which country was ruled by the Romanov dynasty 1613-1917? A: Russia
Q: Which country's liberalization program was halted by the invasion of 600,000 Soviet troops in 1968? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: Which Axis Power changed sides during World War II, declaring war on Germany in October 1943? A: Italy
Q: Who was the first democratically elected Marxist head of state? A: Salvador Allende
Q: What was the name of the basalt slab that became the key for deciphering ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics? A: Rosetta Stone
Q: What title did Charlemagne, already king of the Franks, acquire in 800? A: Holy Roman Emperor
Q: What is the name of the British political regime 1649-60 established by Oliver Cromwell? A: The Commonwealth
Q: "Which 17th-century king of Sweden was known as the ""Lion of the North""?" A: Gustavus Adolphus
Q: What year saw the nationalization of British Railways? A: 1948
Q: Who succeeded the Roman emperor, Trajan? A: Hadrian
Q: Who was the admiral of the French fleet defeated by Nelson at the Battle of Trafalgar? A: Pierre de Villeneuve
Q: During which war was the Battle of Blenheim? A: War of Spanish Succession
Q: Which royal house consisted of Henry IV, Henry V and Henry VI? A: House of Lancaster
Q: In which Indian city did British troops open fire without warning on a crowd of 10,000 in 1919? A: Amritsar
Q: In which war was the Battle of Ramillies? A: War of Spanish Succession
Q: Which sultan of Egypt, who precipitated the third Crusade, subsequently made peace with Richard I? A: Saladin
Q: In which year did the Japanese attack Pearl Harbor? A: 1941
Q: In which naval battle did Rome decisively defeat the forces of Antony and Cleopatra? A: Battle of Actium
Q: "Which new policy in 1958 was an attempt to achieve ""true communism"" in China?" A: The Great Leap Forward
Q: Who was appointed successor to Hitler in 1939 but expelled from the Nazi party six years later? A: Hermann Goering
Q: What was ceded to Britain in 1713 as part of the settlement of the War of Spanish Succession? A: Gibraltar
Q: Who was the queen of the British king, Charles I? A: Henrietta (Maria)
Q: Where did George Washington's army endure the winter of 1777-78? A: Valley Forge
Q: Whom did Charles V confront at the Diet of Worms in 1521? A: Marin Luther
Q: What was the name of the Libyan king deposed by Colonel Kaddafi in 1969? A: King Idris
Q: Which US president ended his country's participation in the Vietnam War? A: Richard Nixon
Q: What was the first considerable engagement in the American Revolution? A: Bunker Hill
Q: Who succeeded Henry I as king of England in 1135? A: Stephan
Q: In which war was the Battle of Shiloh? A: American Civil War
Q: Which treaty after World War I established the League of Nations? A: Versailles
Q: In which year did the Korean War break out? A: 1950
Q: What is the official residence of the president of France? A: Elysee Palace
Q: Who set out his political ideas in Mein Kampf? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who preceded Ronald Reagan as American president? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: In which year was Ulster incorporated into the UK, under the Home Rule Act? A: 1920
Q: What name is shared by the chairs of the UK House of Commons and the US House of Representatives? A: Speaker
Q: Which is the lower house of the British parliament? A: House of Commons
Q: "Of what electoral system are ""single transferable vote"" and ""party list"" forms?" A: Proportional representation
Q: Which prime minister took Britain into the European Community in 1973? A: Edward Heath
Q: Which publication was the vehicle for John 'Wilkes's attacks on the Tories for which he was imprisoned in 1768? A: The North Briton
Q: What was enforced by Parliament in 1379 and was the trigger that caused the Peasants' Revolt? A: Poll tax
Q: In which country did Pol Pot lead the feared Khmer Rouge? A: Cambodia
Q: How often are American presidential elections held? A: Every four years
Q: Israel was proclaimed an independent state in 1948. Who was its prime minister from then until 1963? A: Ben-Gurion
Q: Who did Margaret Thatcher succeed as leader of the Conservative Party? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who said 'A week is a long time in politics'? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which Elizabethan politician, philosopher and essayist was fined L40,000 for taking bribes? A: Frances Bacon
Q: Who succeeded Clement Attlee as Labour Party leader in 1955? A: Hugh Gaitskell
Q: Which American economist is the foremost advocate of monetarism? A: Milton Friedman
Q: In what year did the Representation of the People Act give the vote to all women over 21? A: 1928
Q: Who was Italy's Fascist lender from 1925-43? A: Mussolini
Q: Which human-rights organization campaigns for the release of political prisoners worldwide?| A: Amnesty International
Q: Which British company was effectively the ruler of much of India until the India Act of 1858? A: East India Company
Q: What offence was former Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega tried for in the USA? A: Drug Trafficking
Q: Which British prime minister fell from office because of his repeal of the Corn Laws? A: Robert Peel
Q: Which Conservative MP was a middle-distance runner who won two Olympic gold medals and set eleven world records during the 1970s and 1980s? A: Sebastian Coe
Q: What was the racial segregation policy practiced by South Africa's National Party until 1994? A: Apartheid
Q: Which party was led by Adolf Hitler from 1921 to 1945? A: Nazi Party
Q: How many readings does an act of Parliament have in the House of Commons before being given royal assent? A: Three
Q: In which city did Karl Marx write Das Kapital? A: London
Q: Which party did F W de Klerk represent as South African president? A: National Party
Q: Who played the part of Piers Fletcher Dervish, personal assistant to MP Alan B'stard, in the television comedy series The New Statesman? A: Michael Troughton
Q: Which MP entered Parliament as a Tory in 1833, but became Liberal prime minister in 1868? A: Gladstone
Q: Which publication documents all proceedings of the British parliament? A: Hansard
Q: "Who was ""Britain's first ever Labour prime minister in 1924?" A: James Ramsey MacDonald
Q: Which British actress won the Hampstead and Highgate seat for Labour in the 1992 General Election? A: Glenda Jackson
Q: Which US president introduced the New Deal in 1933 to counter the depression? A: Franklin Roosevelt
Q: Mario Soares became the first socialist president of which country in 1986? A: Portugal
Q: What is the title of the member of the upper house equivalent to that of the Speaker in the lower house? A: Lord Chancellor
Q: Who was the first president of France's Fifth Republic? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Who was dismissed from office as Australian prime minister in 1975 after refusing to call a general election? A: Gough Whitlam
Q: "Which word, meaning ""I forbid"" in Latin, means the right to prevent a law being enacted or an action being taken?" A: Veto
Q: What collective name is given to the first ten amendments to the US constitution? A: Bill of Rights
Q: What is the collective name of the international agreements signed by all the member states of the European Community? A: Treaties of Rome
Q: In which year did Mikhail Gorbachev resign as Soviet president? A: 1991
Q: Which political commentator has presented both Weekend World and A Week in Politics? A: Peter Jay
Q: How many countries are there in the British Commonwealth? A: 50
Q: Who was Pope for only 33 days in 1978? A: John Paul I
Q: Who was lead singer with the group Queen? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: Which author had the real name Charles Dodgson? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Who was the Lord Chancellor beheaded for refusing to recognize Henry VIII as head of the church? A: Thomas More
Q: Who led the Free French forces during World War II? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: Which battle of 1876 was Custer's last stand? A: Little Bighorn
Q: Which actor, comedian and singer was born David Daniel Kaminski? A: Danny Kaye
Q: What nationality was the spy Mata Hari? A: Dutch
Q: "Who said: ""The customer is always right""?" A: Harry Gordon Selfridge
Q: "What pen name was used by the Spanish orator Dolores Ibarruri, who said ""It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees""?" A: La Pasionaria
Q: Who was the king of rock and roll? A: Elvis Presley
Q: Who was Sherlock Holmes' assistant? A: Dr. Watson
Q: Who was the film star who married Prince Rainier III of Monaco? A: Grace Kelly
Q: What was the first name of the politician Gladstone, the composer Walton, and the reformer Wilberforce? A: William
Q: Of which tribe was Goliath the champion? A: Philistines
Q: What nickname was given to General Thomas Jackson because of his stern defense at the battle of Bull Run? A: Stonewall
Q: Which Christian martyr was first bishop of Rome? A: St. Peter
Q: In which of the arts has Richard Avedon distinguished himself? A: Photography
Q: Which religious grou0p migrated westward to the Great Salt Lake, Utah, in 1847? A: Mormons
Q: Who was president of the USSR from 1985-91? A: Mikhail Gorbachev
Q: What was the name of the Thracian slave who led an ultimately unsuccessful gladiator revolt against Rome in 73 BC? A: Spartacus
Q: Which English king abdicated and became Duke of Windsor? A: Edward VIII
Q: Who was the first man in space in 1961? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: What invention made the fortune of Alfred Noel, founder of the Nobel prize? A: Dynamite
Q: Whose circus did General Tom Thumb join at the age of five in 1843? A: P T Barnum
Q: Of which country was de Valera the prime minister, and later the president? A: Ireland
Q: "Which actress starred opposite Alan Ladd in the film ""The Blue Dahlia""?" A: Veronica Lake
Q: "Which French fashion designer created the ""Little black dress""?" A: Coco Chanel
Q: What is the sticky wax obtained from sheep? A: Lanolin
Q: What is the trade name for the non-stick material used for coating cooking pans? A: Teflon
Q: What name is given to the brittle kind of iron used for making engine blocks and manhole covers? A: Cast Iron
Q: Which scientific unit gives a measure of loudness? A: Decibel
Q: What is the name given to the molten rock beneath the surface of the Earth? A: Magma
Q: What is the strong inelastic material found in a human tendon? A: Collagen
Q: What material forms the hard outermost layer of a human tooth? A: Enamel
Q: What name is given to an atomic particle carrying a negative charge? A: Electron
Q: DNA is found in which part of the cell? A: Nucleus
Q: By which name is the drug acetylsalicylic acid better known? A: Aspirin
Q: How many legs has an insect? A: Six
Q: Which flower has the same name as a diaphragm in the eye? A: Iris
Q: Which animals are arthropods and have eight legs? A: Arachnids
Q: Chlorine, fluorine and bromine belong to which family of elements? A: Halogens
Q: Which was the first antibiotic to be discovered? A: Penicillin
Q: Ascorbic acid is which vitamin? A: Vitamin C
Q: What is the generic term for the mechanical, electrical and electronic components of a computer? A: Hardware
Q: Whose research on X-ray diffraction of ?DNA crystals helped Crick and Watson during the race to discover the structure of DNA? A: Rosalind Franklin
Q: Heisenberg is most associated with which branch of physics? A: Quantum Mechanics
Q: What did Heike Kamerlingh-Onnes discover? A: Superconductivity
Q: What kind of elements are found in a pure state in nature? A: Native elements
Q: "What are classified by their measurement in degrees as ""right"", ""reflex"", ""obtuse"", or ""acute""?" A: Angles
Q: What is the name given to the longest side of a right-angled triangle? A: Hypotenuse
Q: Which Swedish scientist had a temperature scale named after him? A: Anders Celsius
Q: How many colors are there in the spectrum when white light is separated? A: Seven
Q: What is the study and use of frequencies above 20 khz? A: Ultrasonic's
Q: Which physicist's law states that equal volumes of all gases, measured at the same temperature and pressure, contain the same number of molecules? A: Amadeo Avogadro
Q: What is the ability of fluids to offer resistance to flow? A: Viscosity
Q: What is described as an ionized gas with approximately equal numbers of positive and negative charges? A: Plasma
Q: What name is given to the very serious chain of events which can follow the failure of the cooling system in a nuclear reactor? A: Meltdown
Q: Which electronic device magnifies the strength of a signal? A: Amplifier
Q: What was the name of the unit of heat now replaced by the joule? A: Calorie
Q: What is a cylindrical coil of wire in which a magnetic field is created when an electric current is passed though it? A: Solenoid
Q: Whose 'unified field theory' tried to explain the four fundamental forces in terms of a single, unified force? A: Einstein
Q: What is the product of the mass of a body and its linear velocity? A: Momentum
Q: What is the SI unit of magnetic flux density, named after a Croatian electrical engineer? A: Tesla
Q: What is studied in the science of cryogenics? A: Very low temperature
Q: What is the favorite food of the giant panda? A: Bamboo shoots
Q: Which flightless marine birds of the southern hemisphere live in rookeries? A: Penguins
Q: "Which species of decapod has varieties called ""fiddler', 'spider' and 'hermit'?" A: Crab
Q: Which digestive organ is well-developed in grass-eating herbivores, but is only vestigial in humans? A: Appendix
Q: Photosynthesis is carried out in which part of the cell? A: Chloroplast
Q: What liquid do plants need for photosynthesis? A: Water
Q: What are the young of bats called? A: Pups
Q: What is the larva of a toad called? A: Tadpole
Q: Which bird, a member of the cuckoo family, is often seen dashing along the highways of the southern USA and Mexico... hence its name? A: Roadrunner
Q: What grow as parasites and saprotrophs, contain no chlorophyll, and reproduce by means of spores? A: Fungi
Q: What are the nocturnal, herding herbivores of Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea? A: Kangaroos
Q: Where in an animal would you find a mandible? A: Skull
Q: What is a beaver's home called? A: Lodge
Q: Which tissue carries sugary sap around the plant? A: Phloem
Q: Which cells form the middle layer of plant leaves? A: Mesophyll
Q: Which antipodean bird is the largest member of the kingfisher family? A: Kookaburra
Q: Which bird feeds with its head upside-down and its beak held horizontally beneath the water? A: Flamingo
Q: Which part of a beetle's body is a skeleton? A: The outside
Q: The maidenhair tree is the sole survivor of which class of plant? A: Ginko
Q: What is the state of inactivity through the dry, summer season, as hibernation is the dormancy of the winter months? A: Aestivation
Q: What kind of a creature is a scorpion? A: Arachnid
Q: Which part of the common valerian is used to make a sedative? A: Root
Q: Which acid is contained in rhubarb leaves, making them poisonous to eat? A: Oxalic acid
Q: What kind of an organism causes a 'rust' attack on plants? A: Fungus
Q: Which is the dominant generation in the ferns? A: Sporophyte
Q: What is the name of the lustrous substance that forms pearl and mother-of-pearl? A: Nacre
Q: What is the Latin word for 'liquid' which we use to mean the fluid produced by the tree Ficus elastica? A: Latex
Q: What is the main use of the tree Citrus bergamia? A: Perfume
Q: How many species of domestic dog are found today? A: One
Q: What kind of creature is a barnacle? A: A crustacean
Q: Machiavelli used which plant's name as the title of one of his books? A: Mandrake
Q: What is the name of the evolutionary theory suggesting that evolution has an uneven pace? A: Punctuated equilibrium
Q: Which step in photosynthesis is responsible for splitting water molecules? A: Light reaction
Q: Which part of the brain regulates physiological stability in the body? A: Hypothalamus
Q: Which organ is responsible for regulating the blood sugar level? A: Pancreas
Q: What is the scientific name for the human ''tail'? A: Coccyx
Q: When might a person show rapid eye movement (REM)? A: During sleep
Q: Which organ removes excess water from the blood? A: Kidney
Q: Which is the most acidic part of the digestive system? A: Stomach
Q: A deficiency of which vitamin can cause scurvy? A: Vitamin C
Q: What are the two main veins in the neck, returning blood from the brain to the heart? A: Jugular veins
Q: What is the more common name for the tympanic membrane? A: Ear drum
Q: What is the name for a red blood cell? A: Erythrocyte
Q: What is the scientific name for the windpipe? A: Trachea
Q: Where do the Graafian follicles develop? A: Ovaries
Q: Where would you find the pisiform bone? A: Wrist
Q: What is protected by the cranium? A: Brain
Q: Where in the body is the thyroid? A: The neck
Q: Which organ in the body stores excess sugar as glycogen? A: Liver
Q: What name is given to the small bones which form the spinal column? A: Vertebrae
Q: Where in the body are the cerebellum, the medulla and the hypothalamus? A: Brain
Q: What are the very narrow blood vessels which form a network between arteries and veins? A: Capillaries
Q: What tube connects the kidney to the bladder? A: Ureter
Q: What is the name of the structural tissue found in the ear, the nose, and in between the vertebral discs? A: Cartilage
Q: Which artery supplies the kidney with blood? A: Renal artery
Q: How many ventricles are there in the human heart? A: Two
Q: What is the scientific name for the tube connecting the mouth with the stomach? A: Oesophagus
Q: Which parts of the body are formed by the bones of the metatarsals and phalanges? A: Feet
Q: What is the fluid that lubricates and cushions the movable joints between the bones? A: Synovial fluid
Q: What is the oxygen-carrying protein found in the red blood cells of the body? A: Hemoglobin
Q: What are the chemicals produced by the endocrine glands to control body functions? A: Hormones
Q: Where in the human body do you find the alveoli? A: Lung
Q: What name is given to the genetic make-up of an individual? A: Genotype
Q: A bone is joined to a muscle by which structure? A: Tendon
Q: What is the biggest bone in the body? A: Femur
Q: Which of the retina's cells can distinguish between different wavelengths of light? A: Cone cells
Q: Which hormone causes male sexual development? A: Testosterone
Q: Which part of the brain controls the heart rate? A: Medulla oblongata
Q: What is an overgrowth of fibrous tissue, usually produced at the site of a scar? A: Keloid
Q: Which is the only vein in the body to carry oxygenated blood? A: Pulmonary vein
Q: Which human body organ weighs about 2 kilos? A: Liver
Q: Which name is given to the heart chamber which receives blood? A: Atrium
Q: What kind of joint is the hip? A: Ball-and-socket
Q: Where is the sinoatrial node? A: Heart
Q: What is the substance that the body over-produces in an allergic reaction to pollen? A: Histamine
Q: Which organ of the body secretes insulin? A: Pancreas
Q: Where would you find the islets of Langerhans? A: Pancreas
Q: The pituitary controls many hormones, but what controls the pituitary? A: Hypothalamus
Q: What is the pigment that colors skin? A: Melanin
Q: Which tissue secretes progesterone during the second half of the menstrual cycle? A: Corpus luteum
Q: Which gland secretes the corticosteroids? A: Adrenal
Q: What hormone was discovered by John Jacob Abel? A: Adrenaline
Q: What is the substance produced by hard exercise and oxygen debt, causing stiffness in the muscles? A: Lactic acid
Q: Which protein forms hair and nails? A: Keratin
Q: Which gas released by car exhausts, stops the blood hemoglobin from working correctly? A: Carbon Monoxide
Q: What device is added to a car's exhaust system to reduce pollution? A: Catalytic converter
Q: Which Australian mammal lays eggs? A: Duck-billed platypus
Q: Which is the most common gas in the atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: Which fuel is formed by the fossilization of plants? A: Coal
Q: Oxygen forms approximately what proportion of the atmosphere? A: 20%
Q: What kind of tide appears at full Moon? A: Spring tide
Q: What is the term given to the study of the weather? A: Meteorology
Q: What is the name given to the outermost layer of the Earth? A: Crust
Q: Which country produces the world's largest quantity of municipal waste per person per year? A: USA
Q: Which sea is so highly polluted that the Barcelona Convention was set up in 976 to try and clean it up? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: What is the scientific scale for measuring the hardness of rocks? A: Mohs' scale
Q: What is the world's smallest continent? A: Australia
Q: Which gas forms approximately 1% of the atmosphere? A: Argon
Q: What is the term for the energy obtained from hot, underground rocks? A: Geothermal
Q: Which animal has been hunted almost to extinction because of its horn? A: Rhinoceros
Q: Which chemical, commonly used to increase crop yield, sometimes contaminates drinking water? A: Nitrate
Q: When you recycle a drink can, which metal is it you are recovering? A: Aluminum
Q: What is the name of the liquid rock which pours from a volcano? A: Lava
Q: What is the collective name for rain hail, snow, and sleet? A: Precipitation
Q: What is the hardest natural substance known? A: Diamond
Q: What common mineral is formed by the fossilization of vegetation? A: Coal
Q: In which part of the atmosphere is the ozone layer? A: Stratosphere
Q: Which Indian state is at the eastern end of the Himalayas? A: Assam
Q: What is the name of the atmospheric gas which screens out the sun's harmful ultraviolet radiation? A: Ozone
Q: What is the world's deepest ocean? A: Pacific
Q: Which inland sea between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan is fast disappearing because the rivers that feed it have been diverted and dammed? A: Aral Sea
Q: The damaged Chernobyl nuclear power station is situated in which country? A: Ukraine
Q: What type of rock is granite? A: Igneous
Q: What type of rock is basalt? A: Igneous
Q: What is the main constituent of natural gas? A: Methane
Q: Which of the Earth's atmospheric layers reflects radio waves? A: Ionosphere
Q: Which gas forms 80% of Earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: In which mountain chain would you find Mount Everest? A: Himalayas
Q: What is the collective term for substances such as coal, oil and natural gas, the burning of which produces carbon dioxide? A: Fossil fuel
Q: What contributes to the greenhouse effect at lower atmospheric levels, but in the upper atmosphere protects life on Earth? A: Ozone
Q: Who was director of the environmental pressure group Friends of the Earth 1984 - 90? A: Jonathon Porritt
Q: Which Canadian city gave its name to the 1987world agreement on protection of the ozone layer? A: Montreal
Q: The dodo was a native bird of which island? A: Mauritius
Q: What is the name given to the study of earthquakes? A: Seismology
Q: Marble is formed by the metamorphosis of which rock? A: Limestone
Q: Which common water pollutant is believed to be harmful to newborn babies? A: Nitrate
Q: What name is given to the huge growths of algae sometimes seen in polluted lakes and rivers? A: A bloom
Q: What was the name of the dioxin-containing defoliant used during the Vietnam war by the USA army? A: Agent Orange
Q: CITES is an international agreement on which environmental problem? A: The trade in endangered species
Q: What prevents the earth's atmosphere from floating out into space? A: Gravity
Q: Which of the emissions from cars are acidic? A: Nitrogen oxides
Q: Which quarry in the Italian region of Tuscany is renowned for the quality of its marble? A: Carrara
Q: What is the name given to the geological time period of 363-290 million years ago during which coal measures were formed? A: Carboniferous
Q: Which is further north, the tropic of cancer or the tropic of Capricorn? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: What name is given to your angular distance on the Earth's surface relative to the equator? A: Latitude
Q: Which landlocked Asian country is described as the world's 'highest rubbish dump' because of all the refuse left behind by expeditions? A: Nepal
Q: What name is given to the layer of the atmosphere closest to the surface of the Earth? A: Troposphere
Q: What name is given to the Earth's single continent, which existed 250 million years ago? A: Pangaea
Q: What component of CFCs causes destruction of ozone? A: Chlorine
Q: What does a barometer measure? A: Atmospheric pressure
Q: What is the basic chemical composition of malachite? A: Copper carbonate
Q: What is the term for a fold of the Earth's crust in which the layers of rock dip inwards? A: Syncline
Q: Which clouds only occur above 10,000 meters? A: Cirrus
Q: What kind of a person might study a podzol? A: A soil scientist
Q: Which gas in the atmosphere can be turned into fertilizer by some microbes? A: Nitrogen
Q: Which layer of the Earth is believed to be formed of molten iron and nickel? A: Outer core
Q: What is the collective noun for rhinoceri? A: Crash
Q: What is a very hard, naturally-occurring mineral, of which ruby and sapphire are gem quality varieties? A: Corundum
Q: Corundum is a mineral oxide of which metal? A: Aluminum
Q: What is the name of the force which keeps the planets in orbit around the sun? A: Gravity
Q: Which planet is named after the Roman god of war? A: Mars
Q: Which planet is closest to the sun? A: Mercury
Q: Which two planets take less time than Earth to orbit the sun? A: Mercury and Venus
Q: Which planet has a day which lasts eight months? A: Venus
Q: What is the term for a natural satellite? A: Moon
Q: Who was the first man in space? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: Which was the first space probe to leave the solar system? A: Pioneer 10
Q: What is almost halfway through its 10-billion-year life, will expand to become a red giant and then shrink to become a white dwarf? A: The sun
Q: Which is the largest moon in the solar system? A: Ganymede
Q: Where, theoretically, might one find objects squeezed to an infinite density? A: Black Hole
Q: Which is the largest moon of Saturn? A: Titan
Q: Which is the largest planet in the solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the smallest planet in the solar system? A: Pluto
Q: Which is the brightest comet in the solar system? A: Halley's comet
Q: What would you find if you travelled to the centre of the solar system? A: The Sun
Q: How many planets are there in the solar system? A: Nine
Q: Which planet is named after the Roman goddess of love? A: Venus
Q: What kind of extraterrestrial objet has been named after the 17th-century astronomer Edmond Halley? A: A Comet
Q: What was the first artificial satellite? A: Sputnik 1
Q: What is the name of the space shuttle destroyed in midair 28 Jan 1986? A: Challenger
Q: Which planet takes almost 30 Earth years to orbit the sun? A: Saturn
Q: What is the most distant object visible to the naked eye? A: Andromeda galaxy
Q: Which planet is the densest? A: Earth
Q: What is the name given to the super dense stars that sometimes result form a supernova? A: Neutron Stars
Q: What shape is the Milky Way? A: Spiral
Q: When was the first Pioneer space probe launched? A: 1958
Q: Which planet id named after the sky-god who was father of the Titans? A: Uranus
Q: Visible sunspots vary in number according to a cycle of how many years? A: Eleven
Q: Which planet is usually the furthest form the Sun, but sometimes is not? A: Pluto
Q: What was the name of the American space station? A: Skylab
Q: Which country built the Saturn V rocket? A: USA
Q: What travels around the Sun at an average speed of 185 miles per second. A: The earth
Q: Which is the second lightest element in the universe? A: Helium
Q: What is the name of the thousands of small bodies which orbit the Sun? A: Asteroids
Q: What is the name for the study of the structure of the universe? A: Cosmology
Q: What units are used for measuring distances in the universe? A: Light years
Q: What is the Latin name for the North Star? A: Polaris
Q: Scientists study the red shift to investigate which aspect of cosmology? A: The expansion of the universe
Q: Which planet possesses the Galilean satellites? A: Jupiter
Q: Who developed the 'aperture synthesis' method of radio astronomy? A: Martin Ryle
Q: Saturn's ring has how many sections? A: Three
Q: What was the name of two space probes launched in 1977 which sent back remarkable pictures of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune? A: voyager 1 and voyager 2
Q: Which planet has one moon called Charon? A: Pluto
Q: What are the clouds of interstellar dust, said to be the birthplace of stars? A: Nebulae
Q: What is the astronomical unit equal to 32,616 light years? A: Parsec
Q: Which is the second largest planet in the solar system? A: Saturn
Q: Which planet has been the focus of investigations for signs of life? A: Mars
Q: In the general theory of relativity what causes space-time to be modified? A: Mass
Q: Which space probes failed to find life on Mars? A: Viking probes
Q: What is the defining feature of a neutron star? A: Great density
Q: Which country has the airline KLM? A: The Netherlands
Q: What two letters are worth the most in a game of Scrabble? A: Q and Z
Q: How many counters does each player have at the start of a game of backgammon? A: 15
Q: How many centimetres make up a hand, the measurement used on horses? A: 10
Q: What is the largest of the West Indian islands? A: Cuba
Q: St Johnstown was once the capital city of Scotland. By what name is St Johnstown now known? A: Perth
Q: What is the largest city in Switzerland? A: Zurich
Q: What is the capital of Iraq? A: Baghdad
Q: In which English County can you find 4 towns with the suffix Regis? A: Dorset
Q: In which ocean is the island group the Maldives? A: The Indian Ocean
Q: Which river runs through the Grand Canyon? A: The Colorado
Q: What country had the Roman name Hibernia? A: Ireland
Q: Which superhero has a butler named Alfred? A: Batman
Q: What is Hypnophobia the fear of? A: Sleep
Q: What famous person has the real name of Eldrick Woods? A: Tiger Woods
Q: What is Fred Flintstone's wife called? A: Wilma
Q: Which film about Vietnam won the best picture at the 1978 Oscars? A: The Deer Hunter
Q: What became the tallest building in the world when it opened in 1931? A: The Empire State Building
Q: In what year did Percy L. Spencer invent the microwave? A: 1947
Q: Which famous character was created by Michael Bond in a series of books for children? A: Paddington Bear
Q: Which of the Bronte sisters wrote Wuthering Heights? A: Emily
Q: Becky Sharp is the name of a character in which famous novel, which is also the title of a famous magazine? A: Vanity Fair
Q: In George Orwell's Animal Farm what type of animal was Napoleon? A: A pig
Q: What rock did Graham Greene write about? A: Brighton Rock
Q: All children, except one, grow up is the opening line from which famous story? A: Peter Pan
Q: Who wrote the novel The 39 Steps? A: John Buchan
Q: Which famous book, published in 1816, is sub-titled The Modern Prometheus? A: Frankenstein
Q: When was the nobel prize for literature first awarded? A: 1901
Q: Which British monarch was on the throne at the beginning of the 20th Century? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which American President ordered the dropping of the first atomic bomb? A: Harry S Truman
Q: Florence Nightingale was a nurse during which war? A: The Crimean War
Q: What were the surnames of Bonnie and Clyde? A: Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow
Q: How many funnels did the Titanic have? A: Four
Q: In what year was highwayman Dick Turpin hanged? A: 1739
Q: Maximus Decimus Meridius was the main character in which film? A: Gladiator
Q: In which 1955 film does Frank Sinatra play Nathan Detroit? A: Guys And Dolls
Q: What is the full title to the sequel to the film Home Alone? A: Home Alone 2: Lost In New York
Q: On the set of what film did Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman fall in love and then got married later in the same year? A: Days Of Thunder
Q: For which newspaper does Clark Kent work in Superman? A: The Daily Planet
Q: Chemically pure gold contains how many carats? A: 24
Q: What is the boiling point of water in degrees Fahrenheit? A: 212
Q: Who wrote the book A Brief History Of Time? A: Stephen Hawking
Q: How is the gas Nitrous Oxide better known? A: Laughing gas
Q: In what year was Albert Einstein born? A: 1879
Q: How many housing property squares are there on a Monopoly board? A: 22
Q: Is the bottom stripe on the USA flag red or white? A: Red
Q: How many times does the letter p occur in the first line of the tongue twister about Peter Piper? A: 9
Q: Which line on the London Underground is represented by the colour yellow? A: The Circle Line
Q: If a month has a Friday the thirteenth then on what day of the week would that month begin? A: Sunday
Q: If the cheetah is the fastest thing on four legs, what is the fastest on two legs? A: The ostrich
Q: What is the national bird of New Zealand? A: The kiwi
Q: The body of the Egyptian Sphinx was based on which animal? A: A lion
Q: On a football pitch, how many yards should the penalty spot be from the goal line? A: 12
Q: In what year was the first World Cup held? A: 1930
Q: What was the number on the back of the jersey that both Maradona and Pele said was lucky? A: 10
Q: Who managed the first English side to win the European Cup? A: Matt Busby
Q: Which English football team are nicknamed the Hornets? A: Watford
Q: Which is the only country to have played in every World Cup since it started in 1930? A: Brazil
Q: In what year was the first penalty scored in an FA Cup final? A: 1910
Q: Which male singer sang the opening line of the original Band Aid single Do They Know It's Christmas? A: Paul Young's
Q: By what name is Graham McPherson better known as in the music world? A: Suggs
Q: What was Blondie's first UK number one single? A: Heart Of Glass
Q: What single by Wet Wet Wet spent 15 weeks at number one in the UK charts in 1994? A: Love Is All Around
Q: Which comedy duo had a number one hit in the UK with The Stonk in 1991? A: Hale And Pace
Q: The Beatles' last live performance was at Candlestick Park in San Francisco. In what year was this? A: 1966
Q: What song was the Christmas number one in the UK in both 1975 and 1991? A: Bohemian Rhapsody
Q: What organisation is also known as La Cosa Nostra? A: The Mafia
Q: Which American president gave the order to withdraw from the Vietnam War? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who wrote The old man of Lochnagar? A: Prince Charles
Q: What type of headgear was named after a battle in the Crimean War? A: Balaclava
Q: What nationality was Christopher Columbus? A: Italian
Q: When women first got the vote in Britain in 1918, how old did they have to be? A: 30
Q: Who in 1961 made the first space flight? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: What was the Roman name for Scotland? A: Caledonia
Q: What was the first country to issue postage stamps? A: Great Britain
Q: What famous building did John Nash rebuild in 1825? A: Buckingham Palace
Q: Who was the first American President to resign from office? A: Richard Nixon
Q: For how many years did Louis XIV of France reign? A: 72
Q: In what country was the game of golf invented? A: Scotland
Q: How many players in total get down in a normal rugby union scrum? A: 16
Q: How many players make up a netball team? A: 7
Q: What is the maximum no of match points that can be held at one time in a tennis match at Wimbledon? A: 6
Q: In what year was the first World Snooker Championship held? A: 1927
Q: In the novel 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea what was the name of the captain of the submarine Nautilus? A: Captain Nemo
Q: In the series of children's Noddy books, what is the name of the policeman? A: Mr. Plod
Q: To what animal was Robert Burns referring in his poem with the lines Wee, sleekit, cow'rin, tim'rous beastie? A: A mouse
Q: What novel by Ray Bradbury was named for the temperature at which book paper catches fire and burns? A: Fahrenheit 451
Q: Who wrote The Ugly Duckling and The Emperor's New Clothes? A: Hans Christian Anderson
Q: In what year did Agatha Christie die? A: 1976
Q: What is the only venomous snake in Britain? A: The Adder
Q: In which British city would you find Arthur's Seat? A: Edinburgh
Q: The popular British pub name The Royal Oak is named after which King? A: Charles II
Q: What is the oldest University in Britain? A: Oxford
Q: In which British city was Guy Fawkes born and Dick Turpin killed? A: York
Q: In which year was British Prime Minister Spencer Perceval assasinated? A: 1812
Q: What is the tallest and thickest type of grass? A: Bamboo
Q: In nature, what does a dendrologist study? A: Trees
Q: What is the largest mammal in the world and can reach a length of 100 foot? A: The Blue Whale
Q: In what year did Sir Frederick Banting and J. J. R. MacLeod discover insulin? A: 1922
Q: What is the hottest, driest, and lowest place in North America called? A: Death Valley
Q: What is the second most common letter used in the English language? A: T
Q: In which hand does the Statue Of Liberty hold a torch? Left or Right? A: Right
Q: How many yards are in a furlong? A: 220
Q: What is the only gemstone to be composed of one single element? A: Diamond
Q: How many stars appear on the flag of New Zealand? A: 4
Q: Which popular sport features in the NATO phonetic alphabet? A: Golf
Q: Who first argued that the world was not flat? A: Aristotle
Q: Which metal is the best conductor of electricity? A: Silver
Q: The binary system of numbers uses which two numerical digits? A: 1 and 0
Q: Which scientist was born in Germany in 1879, became a Swiss citizen in 1901 and later became a US citizen in 1940? A: Albert Einstein
Q: What is the most common blood type in humans? A: O
Q: What is the atomic number of the element Californium? A: 98
Q: Who provided the voice of the genie in the 1992 animated film Aladdin? A: Robin Williams
Q: What 1968 film features the characters Caractacus Potts and Truly Scrumptious? A: Chitty Chitty Bang Bang
Q: What was the first film that Alfred Hitchcock made in Hollywood and the only one that won a Best Picture Oscar? A: Rebecca
Q: Which actor provides the voice for Rocky in the film Chicken Run? A: Mel Gibson
Q: In which year was the film studio Paramount opened? A: 1912
Q: Who created havoc in 1938, when his radio broadcast of The War Of The Worlds was believed to be true? A: Orson Welles
Q: Which major British newspaper closed down for almost a year in 1978? A: The Times
Q: Which American President saw active service in both the first and second World Wars? A: Eisenhower
Q: What nationality was painter Salvador Dali? A: Spanish
Q: What 1948 novel was originally going to be called The Last Man in Europe? A: 1984
Q: Which famous novel was based on the real-life exploits of Alexander Selkirk? A: Robinson Crusoe
Q: Which of Shakespeare's plays has a title which is also a proverb? A: All's Well That Ends Well
Q: What were the christian names of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde? A: Henry (Jekyll) and Edward (Hyde)
Q: Who had a hit in 1987 with the single Tonight, Tonight, Tonight? A: Genesis
Q: Richard Starkey is the real name of which famous musician? A: Ringo Starr
Q: What famous heavy metal band is named after a medieval torture device? A: Iron Maiden
Q: Who was the lead singer of the 1960s Irish group, Them? A: Van Morrison
Q: What famous song from the film Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid won an Oscar for best song? A: Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head
Q: How many black keys are there on the a standard piano? A: 36
Q: Which band member is missing from the line-up of Ray Manzarek, Robby Krieger and John Densmore? A: Jim Morrison
Q: In the song The Twelve Days Of Christmas, what did my true love give to me on the 12th day? A: 12 Drummers Drumming
Q: Who wrote the Christmas story, The Snowman? A: Raymond Briggs
Q: What colour is Santa Claus' belt? A: Black
Q: In the TV show The Simpsons, who or what is Santa's Little Helper? A: The pet dog
Q: In Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol, how many different ghosts visited Scrooge? A: 4
Q: Which country traditionally provides Britain with a Christmas tree for Trafalgar Square in London? A: Norway
Q: Who were Balthazar, Melchior and Caspar? A: The Three Wise Men
Q: From the Christmas Carol Good King Wenceslas, where was Good King Wenceslas the King of? A: Bohemia
Q: In what year was the first Christmas card produced? A: 1843
Q: In which city in England is the National Railway Museum? A: York
Q: In folklore, who is the king of the elves and fairies? A: Oberon
Q: How many stars make up Orion's belt? A: 3
Q: What was left in Pandora's box after she released misery and evil? A: Hope
Q: How many pieces does each player have in backgammon? A: 15
Q: What colour are the seats in the House of Lords? Red, Blue or Green? A: Red
Q: Which Roman God is one of the symbols of St Valentine's Day? A: Cupid
Q: What sign of the zodiac would you be if you were born on St. Valentine's Day? A: Aquarius
Q: When Marilyn Monroe died, who asked for a fresh rose to be placed on her grave, every week, forever? A: Joe Dimaggio
Q: In the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, what were the hitmen dressed as? A: Policemen
Q: Which Shakespearian character said Good morrow. 'Tis St. Valentine's Day? A: Ophelia
Q: Containing the lines You're asking me will my love grow, I don't know, I don't know, which Beatles' song did Frank Sinatra describe as the greatest love song ever written? A: Something
Q: Who, in 1984, won the BBC Sports Personality Of The Year Award, the only time it has been awarded to two people? A: Torvill and Dean
Q: How many babies did Janet Walton give birth to in November, 1983? A: 6
Q: Who played Lord Melchett in the TV comedy series Blackadder II? A: Stephen Fry
Q: Which band had a hit in the 1980s with the single Broken Wings? A: Mr. Mister
Q: Which actress starred in the 1980s films The Breakfast Club and Pretty In Pink and later turned down the Julia Roberts role in Pretty Woman? A: Molly Ringwald
Q: Actor Richard Kiel is best known for playing the same character in two different films. What is the name of this character? A: Jaws
Q: Which American author created the character Rip Van Winkle? A: Washington Irving
Q: Pebbles and Bam Bam was a spin-off of which TV series? A: The Flintstones
Q: In which Formula One team did Damon Hill replace Nigel Mansell? A: Williams
Q: In what year did the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbour? A: 1941
Q: What was the name of the character played by Harrison Ford in the films Clear And Present Danger and Patriot Games? A: Jack Ryan
Q: Copyrightable is the longest word in the English language that can be written without repeating a letter? A: False
Q: What was the most recent film to win a best picture Oscar which was predominantly black and white? A: Schindler's List
Q: The 1971 TV movie Duel was one of the first pieces of work by which Oscar winning film director? A: Steven Spielberg
Q: What is currently the only sequel to have won a best picture Oscar? A: The Godfather : Part II
Q: What was the name of the 1998 Italian film which was nominated for a best picture Oscar? A: Life Is Beautiful
Q: What was the first animated film to be nominated for a best picture Oscar? A: Beauty and the Beast
Q: How many times has Bob Hope hosted the Oscars ceremony? A: 18
Q: After which famous person in history was the teddy bear named? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: In 1785, Blanchard and Jeffries became the first to cross the English channel using which method of transport? A: Balloon
Q: What historic event does the nursery rhyme Ring-a-ring of roses commemorate? A: The Great Plague
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister at the outbreak of the Second World War? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: In America, what became the 49th state to enter the union in 1959? A: Alaska
Q: In which city is Marco Polo airport? A: Venice
Q: Behind Russia, what is the second largest country in Europe? A: Ukraine
Q: Which of the four main Balearic Islands is closest to Spain? A: Ibiza
Q: In which American state is Cape Canaveral, a launching site for space travel? A: Florida
Q: What is the largest country in Africa? A: Sudan
Q: If Alaska is the biggest state in America, what is second biggest? A: Texas
Q: Who is better known as Topolino in Italy? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which stand-up comedian has the real name of Royston Vasey? A: Roy Chubby Brown
Q: In which series of action films does the character of John McClane appear? A: Die Hard
Q: According to the Bible on what day did God create the beasts of the Earth? A: 5th
Q: Which 1973 number one by Slade was later covered by Oasis? A: Cum On Feel The Noize
Q: Which band released the 1999 comeback single Maria? A: Blondie
Q: What was Cher's first UK solo number one hit single? A: The Shoop Shoop Song
Q: How many UK top 40 hits did Prince have in the 1980s? A: 20
Q: Which famous video game character was originally called Jumpman? A: Mario
Q: What is the only ten letter word that can be typed on only the top row of a keyboard or typewriter? A: Typewriter
Q: According to the traditional rhyme, a child born on which day is said to be full of grace? A: Tuesday
Q: What were the stripes on the old-fashioned barber shop poles meant to represent? A: Blood
Q: In what year did Bugs Bunny make his debut? A: 1937
Q: The 1991 novel Scarlett by Alexandra Ripley was a sequel to which other novel? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: Which famous book by Herman Melville opens with the line Call Me Ishmael? A: Moby Dick
Q: By what name was Percy Blakeney better known in a novel by Baroness Orczy? A: The Scarlet Pimpernel
Q: Behind Shakespeare, who is the second most published author of all time? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Which Thomas Harris novel was the top selling adult fiction novel of the year 2000 in the UK? A: Hannibal
Q: What name was given to Columbian goalkeeper Rene Higuita's spectacular clearance against England, when he dived under the ball and back-heeled it while airborne? A: The Scorpion
Q: Fierce Creatures was the follow up to which successful comedy film? A: A Fish Called Wanda
Q: In Greek mythology, what creature had a mans head, trunk and arms, and a horse's body and legs? A: Centaur
Q: Hermit, spider and blue are all types of which creature? A: Crab
Q: In which film did Robert De Niro play boxer Jake La Motta? A: Raging Bull
Q: Brian Deane scored the first ever Premiership goal for which team? A: Sheffield United
Q: Who was the top scorer in the first English Premiership in 1992/93, playing for both Nottingham Forest and Tottenham Hotspur? A: Teddy Sheringham
Q: After the 1994/95 Premiership season, which Tottenham Hotspur player became the first foreigner to win the footballer of the year award? A: Jurgen Klinsmann
Q: Which team won the first English Premiership in 1992/93? A: Manchester United
Q: Who were the first team to field an all foreign starting line up in the English Premiership? A: Chelsea
Q: As at the start of the 2002/03 season, who is the Premiership's all-time top scorer? A: Alan Shearer
Q: How many own goals were scored in the 2001/02 Premiership season? A: 24
Q: What was Maggie Simpson's first word? A: Daddy
Q: Lisa's jazz-playing mentor was Bleeding Gums ...who? A: Murphy
Q: Who ran a store selling items for left-handed people called 'The Leftorium'? A: Ned Flanders
Q: What is the name of the shop run by Apu? A: Kwik E Mart
Q: Michael Bond wrote about which famous bear in a series of books for children? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What was the name of author A. A. Milne's real-life son, who he used in his Winnie the Pooh books? A: Christopher Robin
Q: In the Harry Potter novels, what species of owl is Hedwig? A: Snowy Owl
Q: Roger Hargreaves created which characters in a series of books in the 1970s? A: The Mr. Men
Q: What is Charlie's surname in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory? A: Bucket
Q: Which children's book features Tweedledum and Tweedledee? A: Alice In Wonderland
Q: In what year was Mary Poppins written? A: 1934
Q: Which fruit has the scientific name of malus pumulia? A: The apple
Q: Which drink is sometimes referred to as Adam's ale? A: Water
Q: What is the most widely eaten meat in the world? A: Pork
Q: Which country would you associate with the dish Couscous? A: Tunisia
Q: In which country was ice cream invented? A: China
Q: What is the first name of Hammerstein from the famous songwriting duo Rogers and Hammerstein? A: Oscar
Q: Which country's national symbol is a Lotus flower? A: India
Q: In which month is St Andrew's Day? A: November
Q: What was the name of the character played by Richard Wilson in One Foot In The Grave? A: Victor Meldrew
Q: What sport would you be playing if competing for the Harry Vardon trophy? A: Golf
Q: What is the capital of Peru? A: Lima
Q: What type of ball did Nolan Ryan once throw at a record speed of 100.9 miles per hour? A: Baseball
Q: How many hurdles must a runner jump over in the 110m men's hurdles race? A: 10
Q: Which famous sportsman lit the torch at the opening ceremony of the 1996 Olympic Games? A: Muhammed Ali
Q: Which famous race takes place annually between Putney and Mortlake? A: The Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
Q: How is the sport of tauromachy better known? A: Bull Fighting
Q: What is Sir Donald Bradman's test cricket batting average? A: 99.94
Q: Who designed the first modern petrol-driven internal combustion engine for the car? A: Gottlieb Daimler
Q: What make of car featured in the film Back To The Future? A: De Lorean
Q: In which country was the first Audi made? A: Germany
Q: According to the Highway Code, passengers of what age and above are responsible for themselves wearing a seatbelt? A: 14
Q: What was the name of the Volkswagen Beetle which made it's first appearance in The Love Bug? A: Herbie
Q: In which year did Czechoslovakia become the first country to make seat belts compulsory? A: 1969
Q: As in the famous song Girl From Ipanema, in which country is Ipanema? A: Brazil
Q: What is name of the strait that divides New Zealand into Northern and Southern parts? A: Cook Strait
Q: In which Indian city would you find the Taj Mahal? A: Agra
Q: In which year did California become one of the United States of America? A: 1850
Q: Which Elvis Presley film has the word love in the title and is the only one in which his character dies? A: Love Me Tender
Q: Who discovered penicillin on Valentine's Day in 1929? A: Sir Alexander Fleming
Q: What was the name of the car in the film The Love Bug? A: Herbie
Q: Which brothers' last film was called Love Happy? A: Marx Brothers
Q: Which film starring Bill Murray includes the line Roses are red, violets are blue, I'm a schizophrenic and so am I? A: What About Bob
Q: What was Alfred Hitchcock's first colour movie? A: Rope
Q: What colour is the cross on the flag of Switzerland? A: White
Q: In which children's TV show could you have seen the character of Windy Miller? A: Camberwick Green
Q: In which 1996 film does Eddie Murphy play characters including Sherman Klump and Buddy Love? A: The Nutty Professor
Q: Yperite, first used by the German army in September 1917, is better known as what type of gas? A: Mustard Gas
Q: In 2000, who bared all at the Gielgud Theatre replacing Kathleen Turner in the role of Mrs Robinson in the play The Graduate? A: Jerry Hall
Q: What is the most common name for a pub in Britain? A: The Red Lion
Q: In Star Trek, what colour is Mr. Spock's blood? A: Green
Q: Which 1997 film starring Jack Nicholson is known in China as Mr. Cat Poop? A: As Good As It Gets
Q: As at March 2003, who were the last football team to win the FA Cup final wearing stripes? A: Coventry City
Q: In degrees centigrade, what is the normal body temperature? A: 37
Q: The condition of seasonal allergic rhinitis is better known by what name? A: Hayfever
Q: By what name is the trachea more commonly known? A: Wind-pipe
Q: Where in the body would you find the cochlea and the stirrup? A: Ear
Q: How many bones are there in a normal human hand? A: 27
Q: Which 1959 film won 11 Oscars? A: Ben Hur
Q: What was the name of author A. A. Milne's son, the name of whom he used in his Winnie The Pooh books? A: Christopher Robin
Q: Lanzarote and Tenerife are part of which group of islands? A: Canary Islands
Q: What colour is Sonic the Hedgehog? A: Blue
Q: Walter Fredrick Morrison sold the rights to his Pluto Platter in 1955, but under what name did this toy become popular? A: Frisbee
Q: In the game of Cluedo, which of the rooms would come last alphabetically? A: Study
Q: What item of food inspired the idea for the computer game pac man? A: Pizza
Q: What is Barbie's boyfriend's first name? A: Ken
Q: How many points would the word Scrabble score in the game of Scrabble? A: 14
Q: Nicknamed the Black Panther, who was the top scorer in the 1966 World Cup finals? A: Eusebio
Q: Which Dutch footballer scored 90 goals in 135 games for A. C. Milan in the late 1980s and early 1990s? A: Marco Van Basten
Q: Who won the 1974 World Cup as a player and the 1990 World Cup as a coach? A: Franz Beckenbauer
Q: In all of the English and Scottish leagues, which team's name would come first alphabetically? A: Aberdeen
Q: Who was the first person pictured on a British postage stamp? A: Queen Victoria
Q: In 1980, who became the first British solo female artist to have a UK number one album? A: Kate Bush
Q: Who was Britain's first million pound footballer? A: Trevor Francis
Q: In Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, what was the name of the little people who worked for Willy Wonka and loved to sing? A: Oompa Loompas
Q: What is the only bird that can swim but not fly? A: Penguin
Q: In which year was actor Sean Connery born? A: 1930
Q: Which two actresses play the leading roles in the 1992 film Single White Female? A: Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh
Q: In 1999, in the British Film Industry's list of best British films ever, what was the only film in the top ten to be made in the 1990s? A: Trainspotting
Q: According to the title of a 1983 film directed by Brian De Palma, by what name was Antonio Montana better known? A: Scarface
Q: In which city did gangster Al Capone operate? A: Chicago
Q: Who had a number one hit in 1974 called Billy Don't Be A Hero? A: Paper Lace
Q: Which fictional hero, created by Baroness Orczy, takes his name from the small red flower with which he signs his messages? A: The Scarlet Pimpernel
Q: Who played the villain Hans Gruber in the film Die Hard? A: Alan Rickman
Q: Which superhero takes pictures of himself in action and sells them to the Daily Bugle? A: Spiderman
Q: By what name was the serial killer Albert DeSalvo, who killed 13 women between 1962 and 1964, better known? A: The Boston Strangler
Q: In American Film Institute's list of the top 50 movie heroes, the number one hero, Atticus Finch, was from which film? A: To Kill A Mockingbird
Q: Which group had a top ten hit in 2000 called Cartoon Heroes? A: Aqua
Q: In which year did Superman appear in comics for the first time? A: 1938
Q: Which British playwright wrote Educating Rita, Blood Brothers and Shirley Valentine? A: Willy Russell
Q: Who featured on Melanie C's number one single Never Be The Same Again in 2000, and died in a car accident in 2002? A: Lisa Left Eye Lopes
Q: Which author wrote Patriot Games, Clear And Present Danger and The Hunt For Red October? A: Tom Clancy
Q: What is the name of the Dutch speaking northern region of Belgium containing approximately half of the country's population? A: Flanders
Q: In which country would you find the original Legoland? A: Denmark
Q: As at the start of the 2003/04 season, how many winners of the English Premiership have there been? A: 3
Q: In which county is Lord's cricket ground? A: Middlesex
Q: In the English and Scottish football leagues, which team has the longest name? A: Inverness Caledonian Thistle
Q: What was the first Australian city to host the Olympic games? A: Melbourne
Q: On a darts board, which number is directly opposite 1? A: 19
Q: In centimetres, how high is a table tennis table? A: 76
Q: The book The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie caused controversy after it was claimed it was blasphemous against which religion? A: Islam
Q: Which painter, along with Georges Braque, founded the style cubism in the early 20th century? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What relation is author Kingsley Amis to author Martin Amis? A: Father
Q: What was Michelangelo's first name? A: Michelangelo
Q: Which author, who is most remembered for writing another series of books, wrote the children's story Chitty Chitty Bang Bang? A: Ian Fleming
Q: In which year was Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte first published? A: 1847
Q: On arriving in New York, which writer famously said... I have nothing to declare but my genius? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which Shakespearian character said... A horse, a horse. My kingdom for a horse? A: Richard III
Q: With which comic would you associate Beryl the Peril and Korky the Cat? A: The Dandy
Q: How many seconds delay are there between each of Big Ben's strikes? 1, 3 or 5? A: 5
Q: What was Muhammed Ali's name before he changed it? A: Cassius Clay
Q: What was the title of the Beatles' first single? A: Love Me Do
Q: Which football team won the F. A. Cup in 1988 as Dave Beasant became the first goalkeeper to save an F. A. Cup final penalty? A: Wimbledon
Q: Which song gave Windsor Davies and Don Estelle a number one hit in 1975? A: Whispering Grass
Q: Which four letter word can go before beat or fall or after come or melt to produce four new words? A: Down
Q: How many points would you get for the word Scrabble in a game of Scrabble? A: 14
Q: What part of the body is also the name of a punctuation mark? A: Colon
Q: In 1796 Edward Jenner discovered a vacination for what? A: Smallpox
Q: What is graphology the study of? A: Handwriting
Q: Who provided the voice of the princess in the film 'Shrek'? A: Cameron Diaz
Q: Which sea has shores in Europe, Asia and Africa? A: Mediterranean
Q: In which year did Karl Marx publish the first volume of Das Kapital? A: 1867
Q: What is the Latin name for the constellation that is commonly known as the Great Bear? A: Ursa Major
Q: Which English Cathedral has the highest spire? A: Salisbury
Q: Created by Tim Smit in Cornwall, what is the name of the ecological botanical gardens sometimes dubbed the eighth wonder of the world? A: The Eden Project
Q: Who is the only artist to have a top 40 hit with 'Mustang Sally' in the UK when it reached number 28 in 1966? A: Wilson Pickett
Q: What was Manchester United football club's original name? A: Newton Heath
Q: Who played the title role in the television series 'Dr. Kildare'? A: Richard Chamberlain
Q: Which company manufactured Love Hearts - packets of small round sweets each of which had a short message on? A: Swizzel
Q: In which TV sitcom is one of the characters said to have proposed to another on Valentine's Day by putting the message Lee love Dawn, marriage? in their local paper? A: The Office
Q: Who was the first female presenter of 'Grandstand'? A: Helen Rollason
Q: Which children's TV show featured a rag doll called Madeleine, a toad called Gabriel, a group of mice and a woodpecker called Professor Yaffle? A: Bagpuss
Q: What is the colour of the cross on the flag of Greece? A: White
Q: Originally made in a drugstore in Waco, Texas and still enjoyed today, what is America's oldest soft drink? A: Dr. Pepper
Q: In the 1990 film 'The Hunt For Red October', who or what is Red October? A: Submarine
Q: Which murder weapon in the game of Cluedo starts and ends with the same letter? A: Revolver
Q: Where in London would you find the Grave of the Unknown Warrior? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: What is the full title of the first Austin Powers film? A: Austin Powers: International Man Of Mystery
Q: At what game was a former world champion famously defeated by a computer called Deep Blue in 1997? A: Chess
Q: In 1987, which golfer became the first British winner of the US Masters? A: Sandy Lyle
Q: What was the first name of the first person to be voted out of the first series of Big Brother in the UK? A: Sada
Q: Which football team lost the F.A. Cup final in both 1998 and 1999? A: Newcastle United
Q: Which TV actor had a number one hit single in 1986 with 'Every Loser Wins'? A: Nick Berry
Q: In April 2003, who became the oldest man to be rated number one in the World Tennis Association rankings at the age of 33? A: Andre Agassi
Q: In what year did the first Rugby World Cup take place? A: 1987
Q: At which distance did Sally Gunnell win her gold medal for hurdling at the 1992 Olympics? A: 400 metres
Q: Which soap opera is set in the fictional county of Borsetshire? A: The Archers
Q: Which pop star played Beth in Neighbours between 1991 and 1993? A: Natalie Imbruglia
Q: As at 2004, which actor is the only member of the original Coronation Street cast who is still in the show? A: William Roache
Q: What is the name of the fictional tube station in Eastenders? A: Walford East
Q: In Brookside, which character murdered her father and buried him under the patio and was also involved in the first lesbian kiss in a UK soap opera? A: Beth Jordache
Q: First shown on the station's launch night, what is Channel 5's first original soap opera called? A: Family Affairs
Q: In which year did Emmerdale Farm become Emmerdale? 1989, 1992 or 1995? A: 1989
Q: Which actress played Arwen in the trilogy of films? A: Liv Tyler
Q: At which English university was J. R. R. Tolkein a professor when he wrote The Lord Of The Rings? A: Oxford
Q: What was the name of Gollum before he committed murder to obtain the ring? A: Smeagol
Q: What is Frodo's second name? A: Baggins
Q: Who played Saruman in Peter Jackson's Lord Of The Rings films? A: Christopher Lee
Q: In which year did J. R. R. Tolkein die? A: 1973
Q: Which of The Simpsons can play the saxophone? A: Lisa
Q: In which American city was John Lennon shot? A: New York City
Q: Who did Bill Clinton famously admit to having an affair with during his time as President of the USA? A: Monica Lewinsky
Q: In what year were the first modern Olympic Games held? A: 1896
Q: In what year did Steve Redgrave win his first gold medal at the Olympics? A: 1984
Q: In which American state were the 1996 Olympic Games held? A: Georgia
Q: How long is an Olympic sized swimming pool? A: 50 metres
Q: In which city would you find the two English league grounds which are closest to each other? A: Nottingham
Q: Which English football team are nicknamed the Tractor Boys? A: Ipswich Town
Q: Which gift is traditionally given on a 15th wedding anniversary? China, Crystal or Tin? A: Crystal
Q: Cable-stayed, Pontoon and Suspension are all types of what? A: Bridges
Q: As at September 2004, which footballer is the all time top scorer in the English Premiership who doesn't normally play as a striker? A: Ryan Giggs
Q: What is the capital of Tenerife and is also the name of a city in California? A: Santa Cruz
Q: Which animal's name means river horse? A: Hippopotamous
Q: In The Simpsons, what type of animal is Santa's Little Helper? A: Dog
Q: Other than humans, what are the only animals that have sex for pleasure? A: Dolphins
Q: Which animal is the national emblem of India? The Tiger, The Elephant or The Snake? A: The Tiger
Q: How many humps does a Bactrian camel have? A: 2
Q: Who presented the childrens TV show Animal Magic from 1962 to 1983? A: Johnny Morris
Q: What type of animal is Shere Khan in The Jungle Book? A: Tiger
Q: Considered as the oldest zoo in the world, in what year did the Vienna Zoo first open to visitors? A: 1752
Q: Which alcoholic drink would you need to make the cocktail Tom Collins? Vodka, Whiskey or Gin? A: Gin
Q: From which country does the dish paella originate? A: Spain
Q: Which company makes the chocolate sweets Smarties? A: Nestle
Q: How is the chemical compound Polyvinyl Chloride better known? A: PVC
Q: Which famous scientist was born in Germany in 1879, became a Swiss citizen in 1901 and later became a US citizen in 1940? A: Albert Einstein
Q: Who discovered the law of gravity? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: In which year was the microscope invented? A: 1931
Q: What are the next four words in the first line of the popular rhyme which starts Remember, remember the fifth of November? A: Gunpowder, Treason and Plot
Q: Who had a hit single in 1989 with We Didn't Start The Fire? A: Billy Joel
Q: How many barrels of gunpowder were discovered in the cellars of Westminster Hall as part of Guy Fawkes' gunpowder plot? 36, 96 or 266? A: 36
Q: Which TV series featured Brett Butler playing the main character called Grace Kelly? A: Grace Under Fire
Q: In what year did the Gunpowder Plot take place? A: 1605
Q: What was Guy Fawkes real first name? Guido, Gundry or John? A: Guido
Q: What was the name of the 1995 film starring Sandra Bullock as a computer expert whose identity is erased? A: The Net
Q: Where in the body would you find the metacarpus? A: The Hand
Q: Gary Lightbody from Northern Ireland is the lead singer with which band? A: Snow Patrol
Q: What does the name of the terrorist group Al-Qaida translate as in English? The Base, The Book or The Beads? A: The Base
Q: Who was the leader of the Labour party from 1980 to 1983? A: Michael Foot
Q: Who played Harry in When Harry Met Sally? A: Billy Crystal
Q: As in the dish Chilli Con Carne, what is the translation of the word Carne? Sauce, Rice or Meat? A: Meat
Q: What was Kenny Rogers first solo number one single in the UK? A: Lucille
Q: In The Twelve Days Of Christmas, how many ladies dancing were there? A: 9
Q: Who had a minor hit in 1986 with the song Santa Claus Is On The Dole? A: Spitting Image
Q: Who famously sang Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas in the film Meet Me In St Louis? A: Judy Garland
Q: For which 1990 invention was Tim Berners-Lee awarded the first Millenium Technology Prize in April 2004? A: The World Wide Web
Q: Which controversial documentary film won the Palme D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2004? A: Fahrenheit 9/11
Q: In March 2004, Piers Morgan resigned as the editor of which newspaper after publishing fake photographs of Iraqi prisoners being abused? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of England? A: St George
Q: Which group had a number one hit in 2003 called Where Is The Love? A: Black Eyed Peas
Q: Melbourne is the capital of which Australian state? A: Victoria
Q: In which 1999 film do George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg and Ice Cube star as U.S. soldiers in Iraq at the end of the Gulf War? A: Three Kings
Q: Bill Clinton admitted he had a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky after a stain was found on what type of clothing that belonged to her? A: Dress
Q: Who played Shakespeare in the Oscar winning film Shakespeare In Love? A: Joseph Fiennes
Q: With which sport would you associate Davis Love III? A: Golf
Q: Who had a hit with the song Paper Roses in 1973? A: Marie Osmond
Q: Which 1997 film was a character called Rose played by two different actresses, both of whom received Oscar nominations for their parts? A: Titanic
Q: What is the name of the hit show based on the songs of Abba? A: Mama Mia
Q: Which G is the name of the Italian astronomer who improved the telescope so much as to discover that there were craters on the moon? A: Galileo
Q: For which series of films were the actors Kenneth Williams and Sid James best known? A: Carry On ...
Q: Which alternative word for the Devil is a Hebrew word with translates as Lord Of The Flies? A: Beelzebub
Q: On which TV island might you have found actor Ricardo Montalban? A: Fantasy
Q: Mozart's opera, which was a continuation of The Barber Of Seville, was called The Marriage Of ... who? A: Figaro
Q: What is the nearest planet to the Sun? A: Mercury
Q: What is the name of the dopey road sweeper player by Roger Lloyd-Pack in Only Fools And Horses? A: Trigger
Q: In which sport do the rules specify that the ball used must not weigh less than 45.93 grams and must have a diameter of at least 42.67 millimetres? A: Golf
Q: Which came first - Rugby League or Rugby Union? A: Rugby Union
Q: Which is the heaviest? An Ice Hockey Puck or a Baseball? A: An Ice Hockey Puck
Q: In which year was the penalty kick first introduced into the game of football? A: 1891
Q: Who did Sue Barker replace as host of the BBC quiz show A Question Of Sport? A: David Coleman
Q: In 1999, what film became Tom Hanks first sequel? A: Toy Story 2
Q: What was the name of the robot dog that became a regular companion for Doctor Who? A: K-9
Q: Which former Blue Peter presenter was involved in the first National Lottery TV draw in November 1994? A: Anthea Turner
Q: Who played The Joker in the 1989 film Batman? A: Jack Nicholson
Q: Who were the three stars of the TV show The Goodies? A: Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie
Q: Who were the original presenters on Channel 4's Big Breakfast? A: Chris Evans and Gaby Roslin
Q: In which Bond film does Britt Ekland play the character of Mary Goodnight? A: The Man With The Golden Gun
Q: Which actress divorced Dennis Quaid in 2001 after she had an affair with Russell Crowe? A: Meg Ryan
Q: In Channel 4's 1999 poll to find the 100 Greatest Movie Stars, in what position was Michael Caine? A: 44
Q: Which Irish writer is the only person to have won both a nobel prize and an academy award? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Which Irishman has won the Eurovision song contest twice as a singer and once as a composer? A: Johnny Logan
Q: What is the English translation of Ireland's national anthem Amhrรกn na bhFiann? A: A Soldier's Song
Q: Which Irish born explorer is best remembered for his Anatarctic expedition from 1914 to 1916 in the ship Endurance? A: Ernest Shackleton
Q: Who became the first Irish woman to set a world record in a track event when she recorded a record time in the 5,000 metres in 1991? A: Sonia O'Sullivan
Q: How many calories are in a pint of Guinness? A: 198
Q: Who resides at Clarence House? A: Prince Charles
Q: Which British monarch reigned for longer than any other? A: Queen Victoria
Q: As at April 2004, how many different Prime Ministers has the Queen given audience to? A: 10
Q: What is the official title of Camilla now that she has married Prince Charles? A: Duchess of Cornwall
Q: At the time of her golden jubilee, how many ships had the Queen launched? A: 17
Q: On what date does St George's Day fall? A: April 23rd
Q: Which George directed the 2002 film Confessions Of A Dangerous Mind? A: George Clooney
Q: Which George is the author with the real name of Eric Arthur Blair? A: George Orwell
Q: What was George's surname in George And Mildred? A: Roper
Q: What type of animal was George in the children's TV show Rainbow? A: Hippo
Q: Which George had top ten hits in the 1980s with Give Me The Night and In Your Eyes? A: George Benson
Q: Who played the title role in 1997 film George Of The Jungle? A: Brendan Fraser
Q: Which King created the George Cross medal? George III, George V or George VI? A: George VI
Q: What is a more common name for the Aurora Borealis? A: The Northern Lights
Q: In September 2003, Fathers 4 Justice campaigner Jason Hatch caused an embarrassing security breach at Buckingham Palace dressed as who? A: Batman
Q: Which English city stands on the river Nene? A: Peterborough
Q: What were the christian names of the Blues Brothers? A: Jake and Elwood
Q: What is the official residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury? A: Lambeth Palace
Q: Who painted The Laughing Cavalier? A: Frans Hals
Q: What is the name of Derek Trotter's local? A: The Nag's Head
Q: What are Dominican Monks also known as? Blackfriars, Greyfriars or Whitefriars? A: Blackfriars
Q: Which motorcycle company makes the Road King FLHR? A: Harley-Davidson
Q: What colour are the vertical stripes of the Italian Flag? A: Green, White and Red
Q: According his famous poem, what had John Milton lost? A: Paradise
Q: Which Disney annimation saw a young King Arthur enjoying his encounter with Merlin? A: Sword In The Stone
Q: What sign did God give to Noah to show that the Earth would not be flooded again? A: A Rainbow
Q: What is the name of the statue by Antony Gormley that stands near the A1 motorway in Gateshead? A: The Angel Of The North
Q: Which of Batman's villains did Burgess Meridith play in the sixties TV series? A: The Penguin
Q: Which singer was born in London with the name Steven Georgiou and is now called Yusuf Islam? A: Cat Stevens
Q: Who is the last British player to win the women's singles title at Wimbledon? A: Virginia Wade
Q: Which British player reached the fourth round of the mens singles in 1992 and 1994? A: Jeremy Bates
Q: Who won the men's singles title at Wimbledon in 2001, 11 years after he first competed in the tournament? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: What is the number of the court at Wimbledon which is nicknamed The Graveyard Of Champions due to a large number or seeded players being beaten on it by lower ranked players? A: Number 2
Q: How many times did Boris Becker win the Men's Singles title at Wimbledon? A: Three
Q: In what year was the Mixed Doubles first contested in Wimbledon? A: 1913
Q: What mythical creature has the head and wings of an eagle and the body of a lion? A: Griffin
Q: In cricket when a ball is hit for four, what is the line the ball crosses over called? A: Boundary
Q: Which famous song, sung at the Last Night of the Proms begins with the line When Britain first at Heav'n's command? A: Rule Britannia
Q: What UK bank holiday is celebrated 2 days after Good Friday? A: Easter Sunday
Q: From what London building in 1936 were the first BBC TV broadcasts made? A: Alexandra Palace
Q: Which four American Presidents have their faces scultped on Mount Rushmore? A: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln
Q: In which film did Rex Harrison appear alongside a two-headed llama? A: Doctor Doolittle
Q: Which character has been played on TV by Phil Silvers and on film by Steve Martin? A: Sergeant Bilko
Q: Mary Nichols and Anne Chapman were two of the six victims of who? A: Jack The Ripper
Q: Who played the chef Gareth Blackstock in the sitcom "Chef"? A: Lenny Henry
Q: Who painted the Flatford Mill? A: John Constable
Q: Which of the Teletubbies has a triangular antenna on their head? A: Tinky Winky
Q: What are the two colours of Dennis The Menace's jumper? A: Red and Black
Q: In The Wizard Of Oz, what was the Tin Man looking for? A: A Heart
Q: Which African American civil rights activist was assassinated in 1968 by escaped convict James Earl Ray? A: Martin Luther King
Q: Which George Orwell novel features a character called Napoleon? A: Animal Farm
Q: Which 1997 British film had the working title of Eggs, Beans and Chippendales? A: The Full Monty
Q: Lord David Sutch, who committed suicide in 1999, was famous for founding what in 1983? A: The Monster Raving Loony Party
Q: Which colour features in the title of number one hits by Tom Jones and Shakin Stevens? A: Green
Q: In a greyhound race, what colour does the greyhound in trap 3 wear? A: White
Q: In which capital city did the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand trigger World War I? A: Sarajevo
Q: Nairobi is the capital of which African country? A: Kenya
Q: Which capital city has a name meaning "I see the mountain" and which country is it the capital of? A: Montevideo, Uruguay
Q: What is the capital of Vietnam? Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City or Phnom Penh? A: Hanoi
Q: What is the capital city of Canada? A: Ottawa
Q: Bon Scott was the lead singer for which famous rock band? A: AC/DC
Q: Who was the first Beatle to get married? A: John Lennon
Q: Which word appears in the title of a Police hit in 1981, a Queen hit in 1986 and a Take That hit in 1992? A: Magic
Q: What was Madonna's first UK number one single? A: Into The Groove
Q: How many sisters are in the group Sister Sledge? A: 4
Q: Which footballer won the Golden Boot for scoring the most goals at 1986 World Cup Finals? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Which snooker player is nicknamed the Rocket? A: Ronnie O Sullivan
Q: The field of play for which sport is often called a grid-iron? A: American Football
Q: At which event has Steve Backley won Olympic Bronze and Silver medals? A: Javelin
Q: The Solheim cup is the women's equivalent of which famous sporting cup? A: The Ryder Cup
Q: Who did Alex Ferguson succeed as manager of Manchester united? A: Ron Atkinson
Q: What was the attendance at the 2003 Rugby World Cup final when England beat Australia? A: 82,957
Q: Which childrens novel by Raymond Briggs has a main character whose job it is to scare people? A: Fungus The Bogeyman
Q: What is the colour of the flag of Libya, which is the only national flag consisting of only one colour? A: Green
Q: Which patron saint's day is observed on November 30th? A: St Andrew's
Q: What is Fleetwood Mac's only UK number one single? A: Albatross
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Fe? A: Iron
Q: The actor Johnny Depp had a tattoo on his arm surgically altered after the break up of his relationship with which actress? A: Winona Ryder
Q: What is the capital city of China? A: Beijing
Q: Which famous tourist attraction can be viewed from the 'Maid Of The Mist'? A: Niagra Falls
Q: Which London railway station has the most platforms? A: Waterloo
Q: What colour is the leftmost stripe on the French flag? A: Blue
Q: In which district of London would you find Harrods department store? A: Knightsbridge
Q: Who was the first monarch in Britain to make a Christmas Day broadcast? A: King George V
Q: On what date does Saint Nicholas' Day fall? December 6th, December 16th or December 26th? A: December 6th
Q: What 'D' is the name of Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer's dad? A: Donner
Q: Which 2004 film sees Tom Hanks take a boy on a trip to the North Pole to visit Santa Claus? A: The Polar Express
Q: Which Generation Game presenter was famous for his catchphrase Shut That Door? A: Larry Grayson
Q: During which TV game show were the contestants invited to go wild in the aisles? A: Supermarket Sweep
Q: Who hosted the BBC gameshow Going For Gold which featured contestants from various European countries? A: Henry Kelly
Q: Who was the special guest who took part in the 200th edition of A Question Of Sport to help give it its highest ever viewing figures of over 19 million? A: Princess Anne
Q: Who commanded the Scottish army at the Battle Of Bannockburn? A: Robert The Bruce
Q: With which re-released song did The Bluebells have a number one hit in 1993? A: Young At Heart
Q: At which athletics event did American Mike Powell break the world record in 1991, a record which had stood for almost 33 years? A: Long Jump
Q: International Nursing Day was chosen as May 12th as it is the anniversary of the birth of which famous person from history? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: In music, which group named themselves after the main character in the 1984 film Paris, Texas? A: Travis
Q: Who were the last football team other than Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea to win the top league in England? A: Blackburn Rovers
Q: From which country does the drink Stella Artois originate? A: Belgium
Q: What did Earl John Montagu allegedly invent so that he could eat with one hand while playing cards with the other? A: The Sandwich
Q: Who founded Kentucky Fried Chicken? A: Colonel Sanders
Q: Which fruit was originally known as the love apple? A: Tomato
Q: Which drink is advertised with the slogan made in Scotland from girders? A: Irn-Bru
Q: Founded in Switzerland in 1866 by a German pharmacist, what is the world's largest food company? A: Nestle
Q: What was the first line of the Italian song O Sole Mio altered to in a long series of TV adverts for a food brand? A: Just One Cornetto
Q: What is the main alcoholic spirit used to make a Daiquiri cocktail? A: Rum
Q: In what year was the Big Mac introduced into McDonalds? A: 1968
Q: Which 1981 film is the only Best Picture Oscar winner to contain all of the letters of Oscar in its title? A: Chariots Of Fire
Q: In the TV show Little Britain what is the name of the only gay in the village? A: Daffyd Thomas
Q: Who lived in the top left-hand corner of Wales? A: Ivor The Engine
Q: What is the longest motorway in Great Britain? A: M6
Q: On which BBC TV show did the plasticine character Morph first appear? A: Take Hart
Q: Which shop did Anita Roddick open in Brighton in 1976, leading to a highly successful chain of stores now trading in over 40 countries worldwide? A: The Body Shop
Q: Zola Budd was blamed for the fall of which fellow athlete as they ran together in the 3000 metres final at the 1984 Olympic Games? A: Mary Decker
Q: Before he left The Beatles, which instrument did Stuart Sutcliffe play in the band? A: Bass
Q: What was the title of Mariah Carey's debut single, which was a top ten hit in the UK and a number one in the USA? A: Vision Of Love
Q: Which character did Hugo Weaving play in the film The Matrix? A: Agent Smith
Q: With which group did Tony Christie have a top ten hit with in 1999 with the song Walk Like A Panther? A: All Seeing I
Q: What nationality was Robert Bunsen, of whom the Bunsen burner was named after? A: German
Q: What is the scientific name for the hip bone? A: Pelvis
Q: In what branch of science would a unit of distance called a Parsec be used? A: Astronomy
Q: How many minutes does it take the Hubble Space Telescope to complete one orbit around the earth? A: 97
Q: In the 1994 film The Flintstones, which legendary actress played Fred Flintstone's mother-in-law? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: In The Lion King, what relation is Scar to Simba? A: Uncle
Q: Which Robert Louis Stevenson story became Disney's first non animated film in 1950? A: Treasure Island
Q: Who played Clarice Starling in the film Hannibal? A: Julianne Moore
Q: Which T. S. was the name of Dick Van Dyke's girlfriend in the film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang? A: Truly Scrumptious
Q: The film The Madness Of King George tells the story of which King of the United Kingdom? A: George III
Q: Which nation has won the Eurovision Song Contest more than any other? A: Ireland
Q: In 1978, which country became the first to receive nul points overall, with their entry Mil Etter Mil? A: Norway
Q: With which country did Celine Dion win the Eurovision Song Contest in 1988 singing Ne Partez Pas Sans Moi? A: Switzerland
Q: Who represented Russia in the 2003 Eurovision Song Contest after having a number one hit the previous year in the UK? A: t.A.T.u.
Q: Which comedian created and played Tony Ferrino, a Portuguese singer who had won the Eurovision Song Contest in 1980 with the song Papa Bendi? A: Steve Coogan
Q: What was the name of the act comprising of Gemma Abbey and Chris Cromby who became the first UK act to receive no points overall? A: Jemini
Q: After the 2005 Eurovision Song Contest, how many times had the United Kingdom finished second? A: 15
Q: Which England international footballer started his footballing career at Canadian club Calgary Foothills FC? A: Owen Hargreaves
Q: How are twin sisters Monica and Gabriela Irimia better known in the music world? A: The Cheeky Girls
Q: Which Liverpool player is currently the record FA Cup final goalscorer, with 5 goals to his name? A: Ian Rush
Q: Which two word rhyming name is the common name for the plant called the Impatiens Walleriana? A: Busy Lizzie
Q: Which former Big Brother contestant who was famous for quotes such as what is the opposite of opposite? and do fish get thirsty? and later went on to present Braniac: Science Abuse on Sky television? A: Jon Tickle
Q: Which song gave Vic Reeves and The Wonder Stuff a number one hit in 1991? A: Dizzy
Q: Which 1999 Oscar winning film was directed by Mike Leigh and starred Jim Broadbent as Gilbert of Gilbert and Sullivan fame? A: Topsy-Turvy
Q: What two word phrase is Sweeney Todd Cockney rhyming slang for? A: Flying Squad
Q: Which word in the NATO Phonetic Alphabet would score the most points in a game of Scrabble? A: Whiskey
Q: Beelzebub is Hebrew for what phrase, which is also the title of a famous novel? A: Lord Of The Flies
Q: In which year was the word homosexual first used? A: 1869
Q: As at 2006, who are the only team to have played in every World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: In which year were 3 points for a win first introduced to the group stages of the World Cup finals? A: 1994
Q: In which city did every match from the 1930 World Cup take place? A: Montevideo
Q: What type of animal was World Cup Willie, the mascot for the 1966 World Cup? A: Lion
Q: Which 40 year old captained the 1982 World Cup winners? A: Dino Zoff
Q: Who played Alex Forrest, the editor of a publishing company, in the 1987 film Fatal Attraction? A: Glenn Close
Q: In which Sheffield stadium do the events take place in the Channel 4 TV show The Games? A: The Don Valley Stadium
Q: Who played Fusilier Dave Tucker in Soldier Soldier? A: Robson Green
Q: Which darts player is known as The Power? A: Phil Taylor
Q: Who played Fagin in the original West End production of Oliver and in the 1968 film of the same name? A: Ron Moody
Q: Which mobile phone company was established in 2001 when a Japanese company merged with a Swedish company? A: Sony Ericsson
Q: How many pairs of ribs does a human have? 8, 10 or 12? A: 12
Q: Which is the only fish able to hold objects in its tail? A: Seahorse
Q: What is the plural of mongoose? A: Mongooses
Q: No Mean City by Maggie Bell is the theme tune to which long running TV detective show? A: Taggart
Q: Which TV comedian has played characters including Stavros, Tim Nice But Dim and Wayne Slob? A: Harry Enfield
Q: In a 2004 poll run by the BBC, which TV show won the title of Best British Sitcom? A: Only Fools And Horses
Q: What was the nickname of Jimmy Nail's character in Auf Wiedersehen, Pet? A: Oz
Q: Who was the original presenter of Juke Box Jury? A: David Jacobs
Q: What is the name of the fictional borough in which Eastenders is set? A: Walford
Q: What was the name of the bar in which the TV show Cheers was set? A: Cheers
Q: In a game of snooker, what colour ball is worth 3 points? A: Green
Q: Which actress famously stripped off her bikini top in slow motion in the 1982 film Fast Times At Ridgemont High? A: Phoebe Cates
Q: Which female tennis player won the French Open and U.S. Open in both 1991 and 1992, but didn't compete in either of these events in 1993 or 1994? A: Monica Seles
Q: How many golden stars appear in the circle on the blue background of the flag of the European Union? A: 12
Q: How many points does a Star of David have? A: 6
Q: Who became the first women to win an Oscar for Best Original Song when she did so in 1976 with the film A Star Is Born? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: How many white stripes are there on the flag of the USA? A: 6
Q: The White Stripes 2003 hit single I Just Don't Know What To Do With Myself was originally a hit in 1964 for which female singer? A: Dusty Springfield
Q: What two colours were the stripes of Newcastle United's original football kit, before they changed it in 1904 to avoid confusion with another nearby football club? A: Red and White
Q: How many times has the flag known as the stars and stripes been changed since it was first adopted by 13 American states? A: 26
Q: Born in 1908, which author is best remembered for his series of novels on James Bond? A: Ian Fleming
Q: In Brad Anderson's comic strip Marmaduke, what type of dog is Marmaduke? A: Great Dane
Q: Which artist caused controversy with their installation called My Bed in the 1999 Turner Prize exhibition? A: Tracy Emin
Q: Which author created the character of Miss Marple? A: Agatha Christie
Q: What colour is Art and Literature in the standard edition of Trivial Pursuit? A: Brown
Q: Who painted Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I which reportedly sold for a record 135 million dollars in June 2006? A: Gustav Klimt
Q: In golf, the U.S. Masters is played at Augusta, but in which state is Augusta? A: Georgia
Q: On a darts board, what number is diagonally opposite 19? A: 1
Q: Which sport was the subject of the 1963 film This Sporting Life? A: Rugby
Q: Which sport, of Celtic origin, uses a ball called a sliotar? A: Hurling
Q: The first set of rules for the sport of Boxing, the London Prize Ring rules, were introduced in which year? A: 1743
Q: In Greek legend, what is the name given to the creature that is half man and half bull? A: Minotaur
Q: Based on characters from Greek mythology, the 1963 film Jason And The Argonauts is centred around a quest to find what? A: The Golden Fleece
Q: According to legend, who rid Ireland of snakes? A: St. Patrick
Q: According to Roman mythology, which twins founded Rome? A: Romulus and Remus
Q: According to legend, who rode through the streets of Coventry naked and was seen by someone called Tom, leading to the phrase Peeping Tom? A: Lady Godiva
Q: In Greek mythology who died when he flew too close to the sun and the wax holding together his artificial wings melted? A: Icarus
Q: What was the name of the 1963 Disney film that featured the legendary characters of Merlin and King Arthur? A: The Sword In The Stone
Q: Who was the chief God in Norse mythology? A: Odin
Q: Who wrote the lyrics to the songs in The Sound Of Music? Rogers or Hammerstein? A: Hammerstein
Q: Who wrote the musical We Will Rock You in collaboration with Queen members Brian May and Roger Taylor? A: Ben Elton
Q: George Bernard Shaw's play Pygmalion was adapted to become which musical? A: My Fair Lady
Q: Premiering in New York in 1967, which musical became famous for the amount of nudity involved? A: Hair
Q: Who wrote the book on which the musical Les Miserables is based? A: Victor Hugo
Q: Which song from Joseph And The Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat gave Jason Donovan a number one hit single in 1991? A: Any Dream Will Do
Q: Who played Fanny Brice in the movie version of the musical Funny Girl? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: First performed in 1948, which musical is based on Shakespeare's The Taming Of The Shrew? A: Kiss Me, Kate
Q: Miss Saigon premiered in Drury Lane, London in 1989, but how many performances were put on there before it closed? A: 4,264
Q: Which reality TV show was won by MC Harvey, Azra Akin and Terri Dwyer in 2003, and by Jarrod Batchelor, Shane Lynch and Lady Isabella Hervey in 2004? A: The Games
Q: Which political party changed it's name from the Ecology Party in 1985? A: The Green Party
Q: Which film features Tom Cruise dancing in his underwear to Old Time Rock 'n' Roll by Bob Seger? A: Risky Business
Q: What colour is the cross on the Swedish flag? A: Yellow
Q: Who had top ten hits in 1970 with Give Me Just A Little More Time and You've Got Me Dangling On A String? A: Chairmen Of The Board
Q: Which Christmas song won an Oscar for Best Song at the 1942 Academy Awards? A: White Christmas
Q: The first line of the song Do They Know It's Christmas? by Band Aid was originally intended for which singer, who finally got to sing it during Live Aid? A: David Bowie
Q: In 1987, the Pogues featuring Kirsty MacColl were denied a Christmas Number One with the song Fairytale Of New York. Which song kept them at number 2 with Pogues singer Shane McGowan saying we were beaten by two queens and a drum machine? A: Always On My Mind
Q: From which animated short film does the song Walking In The Air come? A: The Snowman
Q: In the song Twelve Days Of Christmas, what are there 11 of? A: Pipers Piping
Q: In 1986, whose song was Christmas number one in the UK, 2 years after he had died? A: Jackie Wilson's
Q: What was the Titanic's first port of call after it left Southampton? A: Cherbourg
Q: Father Ted Crilly and Father Dougal McGuire lived on Craggy Island with which other priest? A: Father Jack Hackett
Q: Which is the only X rated film to win an Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.  According to Exodus what comes next? A: Hand for hand, foot for foot
Q: What is the capital city of Belarus? A: Minsk
Q: Ganymede is the largest moon in the solar system, around which planet does it orbit? A: Jupiter
Q: Who played bass guitar in the Beatles? A: Paul McCartney
Q: What is the singer Prince's real first name? A: Prince
Q: How many quavers are there in a minim? 2, 4 or 8? A: 4
Q: Which female vocalist sang on Eminem's hit song Stan? A: Dido
Q: By what name was singer Charles Weedon Westover better known, who committed suicide in 1990 by shooting himself? A: Del Shannon
Q: Which part did Deforest Kelley play in the TV series Star Trek? A: Dr. Leonard Bones McCoy
Q: Who wrote the novel The War Of The Worlds? A: H.G. Wells
Q: Directed by Joss Whedon, which 2005 science fiction movie was based on a short-lived TV show that was cancelled after only eleven of its episodes were broadcast? A: Serenity
Q: Who played the third incarnation of the Doctor in the TV series Doctor Who? A: Jon Pertwee
Q: What is the surname of the identical twin brothers who compiled the Guiness Book of Records together between 1955 and 1975? A: McWhirter
Q: What is the name of Austin Powers' twin brother? A: Dougie Powers
Q: Who wrote the 1872 novel in which Tweedledum and Tweedledee first appear? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the twin sister of Apollo? A: Artemis
Q: What are the names of Marge's twin sisters in The Simpsons? A: Patty and Selma
Q: What is the surname of the Australian cricketing twins Mark and Steve? A: Waugh
Q: Who is Pauline Fowler's twin in Eastenders? A: Pete Beale
Q: Who is the twin sister of the cartoon hero He-Man? A: She-Ra
Q: What is the name of Postman Pat's black and white cat? A: Jess
Q: What was the name of the lioness raised by George and Joy Adamson in the book Born Free? A: Elsa
Q: What is the name of the lion in C.S. Lewis' The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe? A: Aslan
Q: What is the name of the black panther in The Jungle Book? A: Bagheera
Q: Which American writer and cartoonist was responsible for The Cat In The Hat series? A: Dr Seuss
Q: Who wrote Old Possum's Book Of Practical Cats? A: T.S. Eliot
Q: Who played the title role in the 2004 movie Catwoman? A: Halle Berry
Q: Who had a number one hit with Puppy Love in 1972? A: Donny Osmond
Q: Which former Bond girl played Paige Prescott in the 2001 horror film Valentine? A: Denise Richards
Q: Which Valentine had number one hits in the UK called Finger Of Suspicion and Christmas Alphabet? A: Dickie Valentine
Q: Which TV soap opera features a police officer called Calvin Valentine? A: Hollyoaks
Q: Mars has two moons. Phobos is one, but what is the other one called? A: Deimos
Q: In the 1966 movie The Good, The Bad And The Ugly, Clint Eastwood played the Good" and Lee van Cleef played "the Bad", but who played "the Ugly"? A: Eli Wallach
Q: The Mauretania, launched in 1906, was the largest and fastest ship in the world at that time. What was the name of her sister ship that was launched in the same year, but sunk by a German U-boat in 1915? A: Lusitania
Q: The Ballearics are made up of three major islands. Majorca and Minorca are two, but what is the other one? A: Ibiza
Q: Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked on the moon in 1969, but who was the third astronaut on Apollo 11, who remained in the orbitter? A: Micheal Collins
Q: Which video game series is sometimes referred to as GTA? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: What large animal has a gestation period of 22 months, the longest of any land animal? A: Elephant
Q: What is made of minerals and tiny pieces of rock that have come from the erosion and weathering of rocks? A: Sand
Q: Developed by Nintendo in the 1980s, what is currently the biggest selling video game of all time? A: Super Mario Bros.
Q: Arachnophobia is a fear of what? A: Spiders
Q: Gary Lightbody is the lead singer in which group? A: Snow Patrol
Q: Actor who played the lead role in a 1952 smash western directed by Fred Zinnemann? A: Gary Cooper
Q: The younger co-writer of the 1848 Communist Manifesto? A: Friedrich Engels
Q: Born 1931 in Swindon she became a 'blonde bombshell'? A: Diana Dors
Q: What was the title of Jean-Paul Sartre's first play? A: The Flies
Q: What was Bedloe's Island officially renamed to in 1956? A: Liberty Island
Q: Of which famous building was Ictinos the architect? A: The Parthenon
Q: In what field did Albert Namatjira achieve success and fame? A: Aboriginal Art
Q: Who married Catharine von Bora, a former nun? A: Martin Luther
Q: Who wrote the novel Love In The Time Of Cholera? A: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
Q: How did Tollund Man die? A: Strangulation
Q: Who received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song from the film Live and Let Die? A: Paul McCartney
Q: Who starred in the title role in the 1968 Film The Boston Strangler? A: Tony Curtis
Q: Who received $3.7 million for two weeks work for his part in the 1978 film Superman? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Whose scandalous affair with Lord Alfred Douglas eventually led to imprisonment? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Pirate Edward Teach was better known by what nickname? A: Blackbeard
Q: What nickname was given to the 7th Armoured Division in 1940? A: The Desert Rats
Q: US outlaw Henry McCarty was better known by what nickname? A: Billy the Kid
Q: Which US State is known as "Mount Rushmore State". A: South Dakota
Q: Which Chelsea footballer of the 60s and 70s was given the nickname Chopper? A: Ron Harris
Q: What nickname has been given to Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh? A: The Turbanator
Q: Which British Prime Minister was nicknamed The Grocer in Private Eye? A: Edward Heath
Q: Linseed Oil is generated from which plant? A: Flax
Q: The transportation of what is performed with an Archimedes Screw? A: Water
Q: What was the maiden name of Jane Austen's heroine Emma? A: Woodhouse
Q: Elkie Brooks and Robert Palmer sang together in which band? A: Vinegar Joe
Q: A hendecagon has how many sides? A: Eleven
Q: Which fruit is distilled to make Calvados? A: Apples
Q: Which fruit has a Latin name that translates as Armenian Plum? A: Apricot
Q: Which large fleshy fruit of the far east has been banned from some public areas because of it's distinctive odour? A: Durian
Q: Which fruit shares a name with a 1969 short film by Eric Sykes, and an animated television show for children? A: Rhubarb
Q: What is the name of Gwyneth Paltrow's daughter? A: Apple
Q: A cantaloupe belongs to which family of fruits? A: Melon
Q: Which football league club are known as the Cherries? A: Bournemouth
Q: Which member of Take That shares his name with a fruit? A: Jason Orange
Q: Famous for its V-twins, what American motorcycle manufacturer started producing machines in 1903? A: Harley-Davidson
Q: The Bonneville' is made by whom? A: Triumph
Q: What famous marque of motorcycle was Lawrence of Arabia riding when he was tragically killed in Dorset in 1936? A: Brough Superior
Q: The Black Shadow and Black Prince are two motorcycle models made in the 1950's, by whom? A: Vincent
Q: What motorcycle has a stylised' propeller as its tank badge? A: B.M.W.
Q: How many gears do the motorcycles used in speedway have? A: One
Q: The Pogues lead singer Shane MacGowan was born on Christmas Day in 1957.  Which female singer featured on their 1987 Christmas single? A: Kirsty MacColl
Q: On Christmas Day 1977, Menachem Begin of Israel met with Anwar Sadat of Egypt to start peace talks.  Which one of them was celebrating their birthday that day? A: Anwar Sadat
Q: Humphrey Bogart, who was born on Christmas Day 1899, said the line "Here's looking at you kid." In which film? A: Casablanca
Q: Charlie Chaplin who died on Christmas Day in 1977, co founded which film studio along with Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks? A: United Artists
Q: Born on Christmas Day in 1944, by what stage name was the broadcaster Maurice Cole better known? A: Kenny Everett
Q: What is the more common name for the plant viscum album? A: Mistletoe
Q: Comedian Jerry Lewis formed a double act with which actor who died on Christmas Day in 1995? A: Dean Martin
Q: Former communist dictator Nicolae Ceauşescu, was executed on Christmas Day in 1989.  Which country did he once control? A: Romania
Q: If China is 1, India is 2, and USA is 3, who is 4? A: Indonesia.
Q: B.O.A.C. are the initials of which airline? A: British Overseas Airways Corporation
Q: Concerned about the impact of uncontrolled development and industrialisation, what National Charity was founded in 1895 by three Victorian philanthropists, Miss Octavia Hill, Sir Robert Hunter and Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley? A: The National Trust
Q: What famous make of motorcycle was Lawrence of Arabia riding when he was tragically killed in Dorset in 1936? A: Brough Superior
Q: What colour of flag should a ship fly to show it is in quarantine? A: Yellow
Q: Purple Brittlegill, Velvet Shank and Orange Milkcap are three types of what? A: Fungi
Q: Who were Tom and Barbara's neighbours in The Good Life? A: Margo and Jerry Leadbetter
Q: What is the river Ganga called in Bangladesh? A: Padma
Q: Chaetophobia is the fear of what? A: Hair
Q: Winston Churchill married Clementine in 1908, but what was her maiden name? A: Hozier
Q: Who was murdered by Fitzurse, de Tracy, de Morville and Le Breton ? A: Thomas Becket
Q: What procedure removes the threat of brucellosis from milk? A: Pasteurisation
Q: Michael Barratt was the presenter of which BBC current affairs programme in the 1970s? A: Nationwide
Q: Who has presented Give Us A Clue, Child's Play, and Crackerjack? A: Michael Aspel
Q: Which sitcom actor presents Scrapheap Challenge? A: Robert Llewellyn
Q: Who has presented City Hospital, Departure Lounge and Last Choir Standing? A: Nick Knowles
Q: Who presents Location, Location, Location with Phil Spencer? A: Kirstie Allsopp
Q: Who presented Ask The Family in the 1970s? A: Robert Robinson
Q: Who took over as presenter of Countdown from Des O`Connor in 2009? A: Jeff Stelling
Q: Which Radio 4 comedy panel game has run since 1972, but did not air in 2008 following the death of it`s presenter? A: I`m sorry, I haven`t a clue
Q: Who joined the Eggheads team in 2008, having won Are You An Egghead? A: Barry Simmons
Q: What was the name of the first cloned mammal? A: Dolly
Q: In which country was the first FIFA World Cup held? A: Uruguay
Q: Who is the present FIFA president? A: Sepp Blatter
Q: Which part of the ear is commonly known as the anvil? A: Incus
Q: A chinese astronaut is known as what? A: Taikonaut
Q: What was the name of the 1927 film that was directed by Fritz Lang and featured a robot called Maria that inspired George Lucas to create the character C-3PO? A: Metropolis
Q: What is the name of the home planet of the Transformers? A: Cybertron
Q: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Robert Patrick and Kristanna Loken have all played terminators in movies, but which one played the T-1000 in Terminator 2: Judgement Day? A: Robert Patrick
Q: Which sci-fi author wrote the three laws of robotics? A: Issac Asimov
Q: Johnny 5 was the central character in which film? A: Short Circuit
Q: Droids was a animated TV series that was a spin off of which movie franchise? A: Star Wars
Q: Who played the gunslinging cowboy robot 406 in the 1973 movie Westworld? A: Yul Brynner
Q: Brent Spiner played which character in Star Trek: The Next Generation? A: Lieutenant Commander Data
Q: What was the name of the robot in Forbidden Planet? A: Robbie the robot
Q: Who was the first man to swim the English Channel? A: Captain Matthew Webb
Q: What city, famous for its 'black hole' is the Capital of West Bengal, and the third largest in India? A: Calcutta
Q: The second closest planet to the sun is what? A: Venus
Q: Au is the chemical symbol for what? A: Gold
Q: A dry red wine produced in the Bordeaux region of France is frequently known as a what? A: Claret
Q: Leonard Rossiter and Joan Collins advertised what drink in the 1970s? A: Cinzano Bianco
Q: This British tree is used to make hockey sticks, oars, paddles, rudders, billiard cues, cricket stumps, polo sticks and policemen's truncheons? A: The Ash
Q: What was E.T.'s favorite candy? A: Reese's Pieces
Q: What was the name of the spaceship in Alien? A: Nostromo
Q: How old is the prostitute, played by Jodie Foster in Taxi Driver, supposed to be? A: 12
Q: Brandon Lee died during the making of which film? A: The Crow
Q: Which type of car featured in The Italian Job? A: Mini
Q: What was the first film to win a Best Actor Oscar for Jack Nicholson? A: One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest
Q: The sequel to the movie Mad Max was called Mad Max 2, but what was the third in the series called? A: Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome
Q: Noah had 3 sons, Ham and Shem were 2, who was the other? A: Japheth
Q: Who recorded 3 albums in the 1970s, which became known as the Berlin Trilogy? A: David Bowie
Q: In mythology, what was the name of the 3-headed dog that guarded the gates to Hades? A: Cerberus
Q: What is the crease between your lips and your nose called? A: The philtrum
Q: What is the name for the revolving spikey wheel on the end of a cowboy's spurs called? A: A rowel
Q: What is the dot called above an 'i' or 'j' called? A: A tittle
Q: Which two words, allegedly heard for the first time in the song Born to be Wild by Steppenwolf, describe a style of rock music? A: Heavy Metal
Q: The Ligurian Sea is an arm of which body of water? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Which expanse of sea in the Orkney Islands was the main base of the British Grand Fleet in World War I? A: Scapa Flow
Q: Who is the Greek God of the Sea? A: Poseidon
Q: Standing on the Arabian Sea what is the principal seaport of Pakistan? A: Karachi
Q: The Gulf of Venice is the northern part of which sea? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: Which river flows into the Dead Sea? A: River Jordan
Q: In which ocean are the Kara, Beaufort and Lincoln Seas situated? A: Arctic Ocean
Q: Delia Smith is associated with which football league club? A: Norwich City
Q: Author Wilbur Smith was born and lived most of his life in which country? A: Rhodesia
Q: Dr Smith was the cowardly troublemaker in "Lost in Space". What was his first name? A: Zachary
Q: On what piece of equipment would you perform a "Smith Grind"? A: A Skateboard
Q: What was Will Smith's character's name in "Men in Black"? A: Agent J
Q: James Todd Smith, born 1968, is an American award winning rapper and actor. What is he better known as? A: LL Cool J
Q: Manchester United signed Patrice Evra from which other football team? A: Monaco
Q: Which English football team play thair home games at Spotland? A: rochdale
Q: Benfica and F.C. Porto compete in which country? A: Portugal
Q: Which country did Oliver Kahn play for? A: Germany
Q: Who were the first ever English team to win away against Real Madrid? A: Arsenal
Q: Who had a hit single in 1991 with The One And Only? A: Chesney Hawkes
Q: BBC 2 started its programming on 20 April, in which year? 1954, 1959 or 1964? A: 1964
Q: Who wrote The Three Musketeers? A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: In what year was the first Six Nations Championship played? A: 2000
Q: Who directed the 1960 film The Magnificent Seven? A: John Sturges
Q: Traditionally, which player in a rugby league team wore the number nine shirt? A: Hooker
Q: The novel written by Agatha Christie that was renamed for political correctness in 1940 as Ten Little Indians has again been renamed.  How is this story now titled? A: And Then There Were None
Q: Which architect's works include Jameos del Agua, Mirador del Rio and Jardin de Cactus? A: Cesar Manrique
Q: What is the capital of Jersey? A: St Helier
Q: Which winner of the X Factor (UK) reached number 1 in the UK singles chart with their single 'Hallelujah'? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Which philosopher was born in 551 BC in China? A: Confucius
Q: The Birds, a film by Alfred Hitchcock, was inspired by the short novel of the same name by which author? A: Daphne Du Maurier
Q: What was Bon Jovi's first UK top ten hit single? A: Livin' On a Prayer
Q: How many number one singles did Queen have while Freddie Mercury was alive? A: Three
Q: In Star Wars what creatures did the sand people ride? A: Banthas
Q: What was Kylie Minogue's first UK number one single? A: I Should Be So Lucky
Q: In which sport or pastime might you see six chinamen in a maiden or a nightwatchman out with a duck? A: Cricket
Q: What English name is ususally given to The Palazzo Ducale in Venice ? A: The Doge's Palace
Q: Which is the most southerly of The Channel Islands ? A: Jersey
Q: What is the highest peak in Exmoor National Park ? A: Dunkery Beacon
Q: What is the name of the Cumbrian town on the river Eden which has an annual horse fair ? A: Appleby
Q: Which city stands on the rivers Spree and Havel ? A: Berlin
Q: What is the largest lake in Italy ? A: Lake Garda
Q: What is the second largest of the Balearic Islands ? A: Menorca
Q: The Northwest of which country is called Thrace ? A: Greece
Q: Which German football club has won the most league titles? A: FC Bayern Munich
Q: What was the name of the cat that survived the sinking of the Bismarck, HMS Cossack and the HMS Ark Royal in WW II ? A: Unsinkable Sam
Q: Which US state did Sir Walter Raleigh name? A: Virginia
Q: Which two men are waiting for Godot? A: Vladimir and Estragon
Q: What is a bird AND a fruit? A: Kiwi
Q: In which book would one find the trog like human species named Morlocks? A: The Time Machine
Q: Gossima was the original name for which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: Which actor was a Prefab Sprout album? A: Steve McQueen
Q: Which English Monarch succeeded William III of Orange? A: Anne
Q: Who, in 1960, became the first woman Prime Minister in the world? A: Sirimavo Bandaranaike
Q: Which ancient thinker is said to have had a golden thigh? A: Pythagorus
Q: Which English cricket county did W. G. Grace represent? A: Gloucestershire
Q: Which singing and dancing actor was born Frederick Austerlitz in 1899? A: Fred Astaire
Q: Who wrote the play Under Milk Wood? A: Dylan Thomas
Q: Which actress, who died in 1962, starred in the films Some Like It Hot and Bus Stop? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Which author's works include The History Of Mr Polly, The Time Machine and The War Of The Worlds? A: H.G. Wells
Q: Who wrote the poem The Hunting Of The Snark? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: Who played Vito Corleone in The Godfather? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Who wrote The Communist Manifesto? A: Karl Marx
Q: Which famous singer songwriter was the inspiration for the 2007 movie I'm Not There? A: Bob Dylan
Q: What is the name of Ron Weasley's pet rat in the Harry Potter movies? A: Scabbers
Q: Of Mice And Men is a novel by which American novelist? A: John Steinbeck
Q: There's a moose loose aboot this hoose is a line from the 1958 no1 hit single Hoots Mon by which band? A: Lord Rockingham's XI
Q: Spike the bulldog from the Tom And Jerry cartoons has a son called what? A: Tyke
Q: In the 1997 comedy movie MouseHunt which two comic actors play the parts of the Smuntz brothers Ernie and Lars? A: Nathan Lane and Lee Evans
Q: What is the first name of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple? A: Jane
Q: What was the name of the number one hit single by Spitting Image in 1986? A: The Chicken Song
Q: Who rode Kris Kin to success in the Epsom Derby in 2003? A: Kieran Fallon
Q: Who wrote the classic thriller novel The Thirty-Nine Steps? A: John Buchan
Q: What colour was Barbara Windsor's bikini in Carry On Camping? A: Green
Q: Who did Rocky fight for the title in the original film? A: Apollo Creed
Q: In which two James Bond films did Jaws appear? A: The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker
Q: What was Major Roy Franklin's nickname in The Guns of Navarone? A: Lucky
Q: What was the angel's name in It's a Wonderful Life? A: Clarence
Q: What were the names of the gay couple in Four Weddings and a funeral? A: Gareth and Matthew
Q: Two different doctors appear in Diagnosis Murder, and Grey's Anatomy, but have the same name. What is it? A: Dr Mark Sloan.
Q: What was Dr No's first name? A: Julius
Q: What was the name of the doctor played by Harrison Ford in the movie The Fugitive? A: Dr Richard Kimble
Q: What was the nickname of Dr Leonard McCoy in the original Star Trek series? A: Bones.
Q: Who played the lead part of Dr Malcolm Crowe in the movie Sixth Sense? A: Bruce Willis
Q: What is the first name of Dr House, played by Hugh Lawrie? A: Gregory.
Q: What was the name of the monkey in The Lion King? A: Rafiki
Q: In which country is The Aristocats set? A: France
Q: What is the name of the main ant from A Bug's Life? A: Flik
Q: What was the first full length animated feature to be produced by Walt Disney? A: Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs
Q: Which famous Welsh singer sings the title song in The Emperor's New Groove? A: Tom Jones
Q: What name does Woody have carved on the bottom of his foot in Toy Story? A: Andy
Q: Lotus made an open top sports car called the Seven, but who makes it now? A: Caterham Cars
Q: Who was the only non-American to star as one of the Magnificent Seven? A: Horst Buchholz
Q: New Zealand has won every IRB Sevens tournament since 1999 except one. Who won in 2005-2006? A: Fiji
Q: What was the name of the dog in Enid Blighton's Secret Seven books? A: Scamper
Q: Who wrote the Seven Dials Mystery? A: Agatha Christie
Q: Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt starred in Seven, but who played the killer? A: Kevin Spacey
Q: What was the name of the computer in Blake's Seven? A: Zen
Q: In what year did the first Red Nose Day take place? A: 1988
Q: Before Red Nose Day there were two comic relief records. What was the first one called and who was it by? A: Living Doll by Cliff Richard and The Young Ones
Q: The Stonk was the Red Nose Day single of 1991. Which comedy duo performed it? A: Hale and Pace
Q: Which Beatles song did Bananarama featuring La Na Nee Nee Noo Noo cover for Red Nose Day in 1989? A: Help
Q: Who played Harry Potter in a sketch for Red Nose Day in 2003? A: Dawn French
Q: In a Little Britain sketch for Red Nose Day in 2007, who played Vicky Pollard's sister? A: Kate Moss
Q: What was the title of the 1995 Red Nose Day single featuring Eric Clapton? A: Love Can Build A Bridge
Q: What was the name of Roy Rogers' horse? A: Trigger
Q: What ws the name of Tonto's horse? A: Scout
Q: What was the name of Hopalong Cassidy's horse? A: Topper
Q: What was yhe name of Ken Maynard's horse? A: Tarzan
Q: What was the name of Tom Mix's horse? A: Tony
Q: What was the name of Dale Evans' horse? A: Buttermilk
Q: What are the five first names of the members of the pop group Girls Aloud? A: Cheryl (Cole), Nadine (Coyle), Sarah (Harding), Nicola (Roberts) and Kimberley (Walsh)
Q: Which TV show is centred around Al Bundy, his wife Peggy, and their children Kelly and Bud? A: Married With Children
Q: On which 1990s TV show would you find Captain Nathan Bridger? A: SeaQuest DSV
Q: On the TV show Blue Thunder, what type of vehicle was Blue Thunder? A: A helicopter
Q: What breed was Columbo's dog? A: Basset hound
Q: Which famous American actor played Rowdy Yates in the TV series Rawhide? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who has starred in both Star Trek and Heroes? A: George Takei
Q: How many of Muhammad Ali's 61 professional boxing fights did he win? 50, 56 or 60? A: 56
Q: What was the nationality of former Olympic downhill skier Franz Klammer? A: Austrian
Q: On 6 May 1954 Roger Bannister was the first person to run a mile in under four minutes.  Who took the record from him 46 days later? A: John Landy
Q: How many gold medals did Mark Spitz win in the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City? A: Two
Q: As on 2009, which American Football team has won the most Superbowls? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: In which royal residence did both George V and George VI die? A: Sandringham House
Q: Which scientific instrument was invented by father and son Hans and Zacharias Jansen in the late 16th Century? A: Microscope
Q: Who was the commander-in-chief of the Greeks in the Trojan Wars and was murdered by his wife Clytemnestra? A: Agamemnon
Q: Who is the mother of actress Vanessa Redgrave? A: Rachel Kempson
Q: In which country did David Beckham marry Victoria Adams? A: Ireland
Q: Which of the disciples of Jesus was the brother of Andrew? A: Saint Peter
Q: What is Dr Doom's first name? A: Victor
Q: Ben Grimm is better known by what name? A: The Thing
Q: Who plays Colonel Nick Fury in the film Iron Man? A: Samuel L. Jackson
Q: What is the name of the newspaper that Peter Parker works for? A: The Daily Bugle
Q: Who is Kal-El better known as? A: Superman
Q: Who played Nick Fury in the made for TV movie of the same name? A: David Hasselhoff
Q: What is the name of the doctor of which the Incredible Hulk is the alter-ego? A: Bruce Banner
Q: What were the full names of Bonnie and Clyde? A: Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow
Q: Who played Irish-American cop Jim Malone in the 1987 film The Untouchables? A: Sean Connery
Q: Brother owner Anna Sage is best known in history for giving information to the FBI on which bank robber? A: John Dillinger
Q: Martin Riggs is a police officer in which series of films? A: Lethal Weapon
Q: Which movie, starring Steve McQueen and Ali MacGraw, was remade with Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger in the leading roles? A: The Getaway
Q: Real life police officers Buddy Russo and Jimmy Popeye Doyle are depicted in the movie The French Connection by which two actors? A: Gene Hackman and Roy Scheider
Q: Officer Alex J. Murphy became better known by what name in the title of a 1987 film? A: RoboCop
Q: Who played The Outlaw Josie Wales in the movie of the same name? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Who was the dentist, gambler and gunfighter of the American Old West, who is usually remembered for his friendship with Wyatt Earp? A: John Henry Doc Holliday
Q: Who wrote and performed the Oscar Nominated track Blaze Of Glory for the movie Young Guns 2? A: Jon Bon Jovi
Q: What was John Wayne's last movie? A: The Shootist
Q: Together For The First Time - James Stewart - John Wayne - in the masterpiece of four-time Academy Award winner John Ford was the tag-line to what movie? A: The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance
Q: What is the second most common pub name in the UK behind the Red Lion? A: The Royal Oak
Q: Amos Brierly and Mr Wilks ran which pub on TV? A: The Woolpack
Q: The Bottle Inn at Marshwood in Dorset has what annual eye watering and tongue numbing item on the menu? A: Nettles
Q: Which movie sees Jack Lemmon and Tont Curtis dressed as women in an all girl band? A: Some Like It Hot
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays does the character Viola pose as a boy, Cesario? A: Twelfth Night
Q: Barry Humphries plays Dame Edna Everage, but which character does he plays as the Australian Cultural Attache? A: Sir Les Patterson
Q: Who plays the killer in the 1960 film Psycho where he dresses in his mother's clothes? A: Anthony Perkins
Q: Which character in the TV series MASH dresses as a woman in an attempt to be dismissed from the army? A: Klinger
Q: Which 1970 hit for the Kinks was about a young man's experience with a transvestite in a bar? A: Lola
Q: Which male actor played a female soap star in the film Tootsie? A: Dustin Hoffman.
Q: The film Mrs Doubtfire, starring Robin Williams in the title role, was set in a Victorian property known as one of the painted ladies. In which city is this tourist attraction? A: San Francisco
Q: Who is the Celtic sun-god? A: Lugh
Q: What was renamed as BBC Radio 4 in 1967? A: BBC Home Service
Q: How many symphonies did Mozart compose? A: 41
Q: Who wrote Principia Mathematica, published in 1687? A: Isaac Newton
Q: In music, the B-52s were formed in which year? 1976, 1980 or 1984? A: 1976
Q: Who was the first player to be sent off in an FA Cup final at Wembley? A: Kevin Moran
Q: Which team hold the record for the highest aggregate win in the Champions League, beating Sporting Lisbon 12-1? A: Bayern Munich
Q: Who was the first goalkeepers to score a goal in the Premier League? A: Peter Schmeichel
Q: Where in Scotland was the famous Irish manuscript The Book Of Kells illuminated? A: Iona
Q: Who was the last British monarch to have been born in Scotland? A: Charles I
Q: James IV was killed during which battle? A: Flodden Field
Q: Architect of the Battle Of Britain victory, Air Chief Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding was born in what borders town? A: Moffat
Q: In New York in 1890, William Kemmler became the first person to be executed by what method? A: Electric chair
Q: In 1960, which country became the first in the world to have a female Prime Minister? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What was the name of the first dog to orbit the earth? A: Laika
Q: French woman Isabelle Dinoire was the first person to receive a transplant of which body part in 2005? A: Face
Q: What was the world's first jet-driven airliner to enter commercial service? A: The Comet
Q: In 1983, Colin Pirchfork became the first criminal to be convicted for murder by the use of what evidence? A: DNA fingerprinting
Q: Born in 1978, what is the name of the UK's first "test tube baby"? A: Louise Brown
Q: Which Dutch airline merged with Air France in 2004? A: KLM
Q: If your suitcase had an airline luggage tag with the letters LAX, to which town or city would you be travelling? A: Los Angeles
Q: Before breaking up, how was the Union of Soviet Socialist Rebublics abbreviated in Russian, using the Russian Cyrillic alphabet? A: CCCP
Q: In which country does OPEC maintain its headquarters? A: Austria
Q: Who is the Minister of Magic in Harry Potter And The Philosopher's stone? A: Cornelius Fudge
Q: I AM LORD VOLDEMORT is an anagram of which character's name? A: Tom Marvolo Riddle
Q: Name the character played by Anthony Perkins in Hitchcock's 1960 movie, Psycho. A: Norman Bates
Q: Ming the Merciless is the arch-enemy of which comic book hero? A: Flash Gordon
Q: In which 1987 movie thriller did Glenn Close boil a bunny? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who is the arch-enemy of Inspector Gadget? A: Dr. Claw
Q: What name was given to the serial killer sought by Clarice Starling in Silence of the Lambs? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Uma Thurman plays which enemy of Batman in the 1997 movie Batman And Robin? A: Poison Ivy
Q: Which villainous soap character is played by John Altman? A: Nasty Nick Cotton
Q: Rene Belloq is the arch-enemy of which movie hero? A: Indiana Jones
Q: Which iconic movie villain was played by a wrestler with the professional name of Tosh Togo? A: Oddjob
Q: Which group take their name from the promoter (Bill Goode), and the DJ that first played their records (Bill Gates)? A: Bee Gees
Q: Which American band had hits with Bad Moon Rising and Proud Mary? A: Creedence Clearwater Revival
Q: Which Australian rock band did not perform for a year after the death of their lead singer in 1997 by asphyxiation? A: INXS
Q: Which Jackson has starred in Star Wars, Pulp Fiction, and Snakes On A Plane? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: Thomas Jonathan Jackson was a confederate general during the American Civil War. By what name was he better known? A: Stonewall
Q: Who had a UK hit in 1979 with Is She Really Going Out With Him? A: Joe Jackson
Q: Which Jackson was an influential American abstract artist who died in 1956? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: Colin Jackson once held the world record in which athletics event? A: 110m hurdles
Q: What was the name of the character played by Kate Jackson in Charlie's Angels? A: Sabrina
Q: By what name is the day preceding the Christian fasting period of Lent commonly referred? A: Shrove Tuesday
Q: In which month is the Vernal Equinox in the northern hemisphere? A: March
Q: All Saints Day is celebrated on the first day of which month? A: November
Q: In France, which flower is given on May Day as a good luck charm? A: Lily of the valley
Q: What is the date of St George's Day? A: 23rd April
Q: Guy Fawkes Night on November 5th celebrates the discovery of the plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament?  In what year did this take place? A: 1605
Q: How is the date of the summer bank holiday determined in England and Wales? A: The last Monday in August
Q: Which classic of English literature sees the heroine marry a farm worker called Angel Clare? A: Tess Of The d'Urbervilles.
Q: The 1990s American TV series Angel was a spin-off from which other TV series? A: Buffy The Vampire Slayer
Q: The Angel tube station in London holds the European record for which piece of engineering? A: Longest escalator
Q: What nationality is golfer Angel Cabrera, winner of the U.S. Masters in 2009? A: Argentinian
Q: Who lives at 4 Paget Drive, Little Whinging? A: Harry Potter
Q: Which author created a fictional world that included Little Delving, Hardbottle and The Marrish? A: J. R. R. Tolkien
Q: Which family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which TV programme is set in Glenbogle, an estate in the Scottish highlands? A: Monarch Of The Glen
Q: Pemberley is the country estate owned by Fitzwilliam Darcy in which Jane Austin novel? A: Pride and Prejudice
Q: Which novel first introduced Room 101? A: Nineteen Eighty Four
Q: How many blank tiles are there in a game of Scrabble? A: 2
Q: Who was head chef on the first series of ITV's Hell's Kitchen? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: In which city is the film Don't Look Now set? A: Venice
Q: The geographic region of Patagonia is situated between which two South American countries ? A: Argentina and Chile
Q: Which South American country will host the 2014 football World Cup ? A: Brazil
Q: Who reached No.1 in the UK charts in 1977 with 'Don't cry for me, Argentina ' ? A: Julie Covington
Q: Bolivia gained independance in 1825 - from which European country ? A: Spain
Q: Which fictional character from children's literature came from Darkest Peru ? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What is the capital of Venezuela ? A: Caracas
Q: Which ocean seperates the East coast of South America from the West coast of Africa ? A: Atlantic
Q: Who was the President of Argentina at the time of the Falklands invasion in 1982 ? A: General Galtieri
Q: What is the name of the woman Hugh Grant was caught performing a lewd act with on Sunset Boulevard in 1995? A: Divine Brown
Q: From which shop on Fifth Avenue did Winona Ryder get caught shoplifting in 2002? A: Saks
Q: What is the name of the adopted daughter of Mia Farrow who married her mother's former long-term lover? A: Soon-Yi
Q: Which Oscar winner once pled guilty to charges of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor and, after a 42 day psychiatric evaluation, fled to France? A: Roman Polanski
Q: Which Oscar winning actress was denounced by Senator Edwin C. Johnson as a powerful influence for evil after she had an affair with and left her husband for Roberto Rossellini? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: Which actor, who has worked for Governor Schwarzenegger, was at the centre of a sex tape scandal involving a 16-year-old back in 1988? A: Rob Lowe
Q: In the painting called Self Portrait With Bandaged Ear by Van Gogh, is Van Gogh's left ear or right ear bandaged? A: Left
Q: Which organ of the human body does hepatitis affect? A: Liver
Q: How many muscles are there in total in an average human's set of fingers? A: None
Q: How many pairs of chromosomes are there in the human body? A: 23
Q: What common name is given to those who suffer from kyphosis? A: Hunchback
Q: Where does Homer Simpson work? A: Springfield Nuclear Power Plant
Q: What is the name of the bulldog who featured in the Tom and Jerry cartoons? A: Spike
Q: What is the name of the police officer whose beat includes the alley where Top Cat and his gang live? A: Officer Dibble
Q: Mortimer was the original name for which famous cartoon mouse? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Which cartoon characters were known as heroes in a half shell? A: The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Q: Which killer lived at 186 Fleet Street and gave the bodies of his victims to Mrs Lovett for her to make meat pies with? A: Sweeney Todd
Q: Patrick Bateman is a serial killer and businessman in which novel by Brett Easton Ellis? A: American Psycho
Q: Who killed at least 17 men and boys before being arrested in Milwaukee in 1991? A: Jeffery Dahmer
Q: Which killer was executed by electric chair in January 1989 after confessing to the murder of around 30 young women during the 1970s, mostly by bludgeoning and strangling? A: Ted Bundy
Q: What nickname was given to the serial killer who killed and dismembered women in the Whitechapel area of London during the 1880s? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: In the film Silence Of The Lambs what is the nickname given to the killer Jame Gumb who Agent Starling is persuing with the help of Hannibal Lecter? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Which serial killer lived at 10 Rillington Place? A: John Christie
Q: What is the real name of the Yorkshire Ripper, convicted in 1981 of the murder of 13 people? A: Peter Sutcliffe
Q: The African Rhinoceros has two horns on its head? A: True
Q: Elvis Presley was a black belt in Karate? A: True
Q: A rat can survive longer without water than a camel? A: True
Q: Charlie Chaplin once won first prize in a Charlie Chaplin look-a-like contest? A: False
Q: Rubies and Sapphires are exactly alike except in colour? A: True
Q: Which actor starred in the movie School Of Rock? A: Jack Black
Q: Teacher Gordon Sumner went on to become the lead singer of a top band and then have a successful solo recording artist under what name? A: Sting
Q: The book Tom Brown's School Days is set in which school? A: Rugby
Q: Who won a gold medal in the 100 metres breaststroke at the 1980 Olympics in Moscow? A: Duncan Goodhew
Q: Linford Christie won a gold medal representing Great Britain in the 100 metres at the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, but what country was he born in? A: Jamaica
Q: Who won the gold medal in the heptathlon in the 2000 Olympics? A: Denise Lewis
Q: What colour medal did Amir Khan win in the lightweight boxing tournament at the 2004 Olympics? A: Silver
Q: Sean Kerly, Imran Sherwani and Ian Taylor were all members of Great Britain's gold-medal winning team in the 1988 Olympics in Seoul. In what sport? A: Hockey
Q: If Freddie Mercury was on vocals, Brian May was on lead guitar, and Roger Taylor was on drums, who was on bass guitar? A: John Deacon
Q: If the US states that border Canada from west to east are Washington, Idaho, Montana, and North Dakota, what comes next? A: Minnesota
Q: If Winston Churchill was the first post war Prime Minister, Clement Atlee was second, Churchill third, and Anthony Eden fourth, who was 5th? A: Harold McMillan
Q: If Dr. No was first, From Russia With Love was second, and Goldfinger was third, what was fourth? A: Thunderball
Q: If Elton John has had 7, ABBA have had 9, and Cliff Richard has had 14, who has had the most with 21? A: Elvis Presley
Q: If Finland won in 2006, Serbia in 2007, and Russia in 2008, who won in May 2009? A: Norway
Q: If the equator crosses Africa's West coast in the country of Gabon, in which country does it cross the East coast? A: Somalia
Q: The band T'Pau took their name from a character in which TV series? A: Star Trek.
Q: What name is given to abdominal thrusts performed on a choking victim, which is named after the American physician to whom it is credited? A: Heimlich manoeuvre.
Q: The band Kaiser Chiefs took their name from a football club in which country? A: South Africa.
Q: Which British band named themselves after the villain from the sci-fi movie Barbarella? A: Duran Duran.
Q: The author of Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy had an asteroid named after him after he died in 2001. What was his name? A: Douglas Adams.
Q: What country is home to Kenai Fjords National Park? A: USA
Q: What fruit is nicknamed the Alligator Pear? A: Avocado
Q: When Elisha Graves Otis invented it, he called it the safety hoist. What do we call it now? A: The elevator
Q: Lanolin comes from what animal? A: Sheep
Q: Written by Ernest Hemingway, what is the subject of the 1932 non-fiction book Death In The Afternoon? A: Bull-fighting
Q: The Thirty Years' War was finally ended in 1648 with what peace treaty? A: Peace of Westphalia
Q: What nationality is Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot? A: Belgian
Q: Which country was the only original member of OPEC outside of the Middle East? A: Venezuela
Q: How were Fleegle, Bingo, Drooper and Snork better known collectively on TV? A: The banana splits
Q: What is the nickname of Bournemouth F.C.? A: The Cherries
Q: What is the longest river in South Africa? A: The Orange River
Q: Tom Joad was the main character in which John Steinbeck novel? A: The Grapes Of Wrath
Q: What famous song is Huckleberry Hound best known for singing? A: My Darling Clementine
Q: The Smurfs are described as being how tall? A: Three apples high
Q: What is the name of Liverpool's main railway station? A: Lime Street
Q: What is the name of the John Lennon memorial garden in Central Park, New York? A: Strawberry Fields
Q: Who is the oldest of Prince Andrew's daughters? A: Princess Beatrice
Q: Who was the last monarch of England only? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Commissioned by Queen Victoria in memory of her husband, in which Royal park would you find the Albert Memorial? A: Kensington Gardens
Q: Which royal establishment was moved from London to Llantrisant in South Wales in 1968? A: The Royal Mint
Q: What event takes place on the official birthday of the sovereign? A: Trooping the Colour
Q: What is the name of the Scottish home of the British Royal Family? A: Balmoral Castle
Q: What temperature is the same in Celsius as it is in Fahrenheit? A: -40 degrees
Q: How many dwarf planets are there in our solar system? A: Five
Q: Absolute zero is a temperature defined as 0 on what scale? A: The Kelvin scale
Q: Oology is the study of what? A: Eggs
Q: Nephrology is the study of which organs? A: Kidneys
Q: Which famous building has the address of 1600 Pennysylvania Avenue? A: The White House
Q: Which international charity is registered at John Smith Drive, Cowley, Oxford? A: OXFAM
Q: Which public service moved from Bracknell in Berkshire, to Exeter in Devon in 2003? A: The met office
Q: Which historic event would you associate with Pudding Lane in London? A: The Great Fire of London
Q: Which English Victorian author was born in 1812 in Old Commercial Rd, Landport, Portsmouth? A: Charles Dickens
Q: The postal address of which famous building is simply, PO Box 995, Kentucky, USA? A: Fort Knox
Q: Albany and Camp Hill are two of the three prisons outside Newport on the Isle of Wight. What is the third? A: Parkhurst
Q: Who killed John F Kennedy? A: Lee Harvey Oswald
Q: Who killed Martin Luther King? A: James Earl Ray
Q: Name the follow up to the Clint Eastwood film 'Every Which Way But Loose'. A: Any Which Way You Can
Q: Which seaside resort is the setting for the Only Fools And Horses 'Jolly Boys Outing'? A: Margate
Q: Inspector 'Dirty' Harry Callaghan attempted to clean up the streets of which US City? A: San Francisco
Q: Dr Egon Spengler appears in which film? A: Ghostbusters
Q: Richard Harris plays which charcter in the Harry Potter films? A: Professor Dumbledore
Q: In which year was the film Casablanca premiered? A: 1942
Q: Comedian Steve Coogan provided the voice for which animal in the 1996 film Wind In The Willows? A: Mole
Q: How many ounces are there in a pound? A: 16
Q: How many pints are there in a gallon? A: 8
Q: How many yards are there in a mile? A: 1,760
Q: How many feet are there in a fathom? A: 6
Q: How many yards are there in a chain? A: 22
Q: How many gallons are there in a firkin? A: 9
Q: How many sheets of paper are there in a quire? A: 24
Q: The Neverland Ranch is in which US state? A: California
Q: Which Jackson has starred in Star Wars and Pulp Fiction? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: Which song written by Michael Jackson & Lionel Ritchie was recorded by a group of 45 singers? A: We are the World
Q: Which of Michael Jackson's singles spent the longest at number one in the UK? A: Earth Song
Q: Name the Jackson who is a judge on American Idol? A: Randy
Q: In 1986 Jackson signed a $15 million deal with which company - it was the largest ever endorsement for product promotion? A: Pepsi
Q: Prince & Prince Michael II are two of Jackson's children, name the third? A: Paris
Q: Which artist was known as Jack the Dripper' because of his technique of dripping & pouring paint onto a canvas? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: Whose 'wings are like a shield of steel'? A: Batfink's
Q: Phil Collins won an Oscar for Best Original Song for which Disney film? A: Tarzan
Q: In the Disney cartoon what was the name of The Little Mermaid? A: Ariel
Q: In the Lion King, what was the name of Simba's father? A: Mufasa
Q: The childrens TV character Prince Adam of Eternia is better known by what name? A: He-Man
Q: Who was described as an old, saggy cloth cat, baggy, and a bit loose at the seams? A: Bagpuss
Q: What was the name of SuperTed's sidekick? A: Spotty
Q: What are the two main ingredients of Hollandaise sauce? A: Egg yolks and butter
Q: Half the world's pistachio nuts are grown in which country? A: Iran
Q: Apart from Del Boy, Rodney and Grandad, which other regular character appeared in the first ever episode? Boycie, Mickey Pearce or Trigger? A: Trigger
Q: What was the name of the episode in which Rodney first met Cassandra? A: Yuppy Love
Q: What was the nickname of Rodney's real dad? A: Freddie The Frog
Q: In which episode did Del Boy first meet Raquel? A: Dates
Q: Who played Aunt Renee in The Frogs Legacy? A: Joan Sims
Q: Before the most recent Christmas specials, how may episodes were there in which neither Uncle Albert or Grandad appeared? None, two or nine? A: Two
Q: Which famous actor played Roy Slater? A: Jim Broadbent
Q: At which stadium do Scotland play their home football matches? A: Hampden Park
Q: Which English county town stands on the river Lune? A: Lancaster
Q: Which cowboy showman's real name was Willaim Cody? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: Which sci-fi series was the basis of the film Serenity and created by Buffy creator Joss Wheadon? A: Firefly
Q: Which fruit grows on palm trees? A: Dates
Q: What is the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii? A: Honolulu
Q: Saint Lucia is an island holiday destination in which sea? A: The Caribbean Sea
Q: Complete the name of this popular ice cream flavour: Rum and _____? A: Raisin
Q: Which actress played Summer in the TV show The OC? A: Rachel Bilson
Q: In which month does midsummer's day occur? A: June
Q: How many players compete in a professional beach volleyball game? A: Two
Q: The Costa del Sol is a region of which country? A: Spain
Q: Who had a summer hit in 2008 with Sweet About Me? A: Gabriella Cilmi
Q: In a hit film from the summer of 2008, Robert Downey Jr. played a man made of what? A: Iron
Q: What type of summer clothing is an espadrille? A: A Shoe
Q: Which London football team earned the nickname the crazy gang? A: Wimbeldon
Q: Which player was involved in Britain's first million pound transfer? A: Trevor Francis
Q: Who did Alan Shearer play for before he joined Blackburn Rovers? A: Southampton
Q: Who joined Liverpool from Nottingham Forest for over £8 million in 1995? A: Stan Collymore
Q: Which team used to play their home matches at Filbert Street? A: Leicester City
Q: Which football team are nicknamed the tractor boys? A: Ipswich Town
Q: Who was the manager of Portsmouth before Paul Hart took over? A: Tony Adams
Q: In which African country was Michael Essien born? A: Ghana
Q: Which children's TV show started with the words Here is a box, a musical box, wound up and ready to play? A: Camberwick Green
Q: Which character was dressed as a jester in Rentaghost? A: Timothy Claypole
Q: When Burgess Meredith was the special guest villain in Batman, which character did he play? A: The Penguin
Q: Gerry Anderson's Stingray told about the adventures of Troy Tempest. Which organisation did Troy Tempest work for? A: WASP
Q: Who was the artist on the TV series Vision On? A: Tony Hart
Q: Brinsley Forde who went on to become the lead singer of Aswad starred in which children's TV series of the 1970s? A: Here Come The Double Deckers
Q: What is the unofficial national anthem of Australia? A: Waltzing Matilda
Q: Which royal house succeeded the Tudors? A: Stuart
Q: Name the space shuttle that exploded in 1986 A: Challenger
Q: Ross Kemp plays which Eastenders character? A: Grant Mitchell
Q: In the Jungle Book, what animal was Bagheera? A: Black Panther
Q: Which British statesman's ancestral home was Blenheim Palace? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Phil Collins played drums with which band? A: Genesis
Q: Who was the last woman executed in the UK? A: Ruth Ellis
Q: What links Cheryl Cole, Dannii Minogue, and Sharon Osbourne? A: X-Factor judges
Q: Epiphany is known by what other name in some countries? A: Three Kings Day
Q: Who founded ChildLine and presented That's Life? A: Esther Rantzen
Q: Which three characters have advertised Kellogs Rice Krispies since 1903? A: Snap, Crackle and Pop
Q: What type of snake is a sidewinder? A: Rattlesnake
Q: What was the name of Britney Spears` first hit single? A: Baby One More Time
Q: What was Hephaestus the Greek God of? A: Fire
Q: What is the first book of the Bible attributed to a prophet? A: Joshua
Q: Prior to his death in 1976 what was John Wayne's last film? A: The Shootist
Q: Which famous Indian became known as Rebecca Rolfe and died in Gravesend in Kent? A: Pocahontas
Q: What was the name of the Cartwright's ranch in Bonanza? A: Ponderosa
Q: Which Indian tribe did Sitting Bull belong to? A: Sioux
Q: What started at Fort Sumter in April 1861? A: American Civil War
Q: In which territory, now US state, was the Battle of Little Bighorn fought? A: Montana
Q: Known as "The Singing Cowboy" who had his biggest hit record with the original recording of "Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer"? A: Gene Autry
Q: In James Fenimore Cooper's classic story, how is the character Uncas referred to in the novel's title? A: The Last of the Mohicans
Q: Who succeeded General Joseph Johnston as the Commander of the Army of Northern Virginia? A: Robert E Lee
Q: The Gunfight at the O.K. Corral took place in which city? A: Tombstone
Q: Which country is situated on the west coast of Africa between Ghana and Liberia? A: IVORY coast
Q: What was the title of the Janis Joplin album released in 1971, four months after her death? A: PEARL
Q: What song has provided hit singles for the Rolling Stones, Melanie and Rod Stewart? A: RUBY Tuesday
Q: Which alloy is created using copper and tin? A: BRONZE
Q: Which 1989 film starred Julia Roberts and was mainly set in a beauty salon run by a character played by Dolly Parton? A: STEEL Magnolias
Q: Last night I dreamed I went to Mandalay again. A: Rebecca
Q: It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. A: A Tale of Two Cities
Q: If you want to find Cherry Tree Lane, all you have to do is ask the policeman at the cross roads A: Mary Poppins
Q: What is the name of the snake killing mongoose in the stories by Rudyard Kipling? A: Riki Tiki Tavi
Q: How many sheets of paper are there in one ream? A: 500
Q: According to the Bible, who was 969 years old when he died? A: Methuselah
Q: What is the largest planet in our universe? A: Jupiter
Q: By what name is Reginald Dwight better known? A: Elton John
Q: Which golfer is nicknamed The Great White Shark'? A: Greg Norman
Q: The Sharks are a British Basketball team currently playing in the British Basketball League. In which city are they based? A: Sheffield
Q: In the 2004 CGI film Shark Tale, which actor provides the voice for the main character, Oscar? A: Will Smith
Q: What are the two gangs in the musical West Side Story? A: The Sharks and the Jets
Q: What sport do the Orlando Sharks play? A: (Indoor) Soccer
Q: Steamboat Willie was a 1928 Walt Disney cartoon with Mickey Mouse, but the title was a parody of Steamboat Bill Jr, a full length silent comedy of the same year which starred which famous deadpan comedy great? A: Buster Keaton
Q: In the 1971 movie Charlie And The Chocolate Factory, Willy Wonka is played by Gene Wilder. Who plays him in the 2005 film Charlie And The Chocolate Factory? A: Johnny Depp
Q: In which TV series would you find the character Groundskeeper Willy? A: The Simpsons
Q: What sort of animal was World Cup Willie, the mascot for the 1966 World Cup? A: A lion
Q: Which Willy wrote the plays Educating Rita and Shirley Valentine? A: Willy Russell
Q: Willie John McBride is a name associated with which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: Which chemical element has the lowest boiling point? A: Helium
Q: Which element, formed when seawater comes into contact with electricity, was responsible for the death of many Submariners during the Second World War? A: Chlorine
Q: Which element is the best conductor of electricity? A: Silver
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol S? A: Sulpher
Q: How is DiHydrogen Oxide better known? A: Water
Q: Which element was known as the King of Metals? A: Gold
Q: Mary Phelps Jacob designed which item of clothing in 1914? A: The Bra
Q: Born in Gibraltar, which designer was named British Designer of the Year in 1987, 1994 and 1995? A: John Galliano
Q: What is the name of Vivienne Westwood's clothes shop at 430 King's Road where she sells her Anglomania label? A: World's End
Q: Which pop singer has had perfumes called Curious, Fantasy, Midnight Fantasy, Hidden Fantasy  and Circus Fantasy? A: Britney Spears
Q: Which Canadian model dated french goalkeeper Fabien Barthez and has appeared in the music videos for George Michael's songs Freedom '90 and Too Funky? A: Linda Evangelista
Q: In which country was designer Oscar de la Renta born? A: The Dominican Republic
Q: In which TV series might Lieutenant Green say Spectrum is green? A: Captain Scarlet
Q: The Green Bay Packers play which sport? A: American football
Q: Eva Green played Bond girl Vesper Lynd in which film? A: Casino Royale
Q: Green Green Grass Of Home was a UK number one hit single for which singer? A: Tom Jones
Q: Greenland is an autonomous constituant country within which European kingdom? A: Denmark
Q: In Monopoly, the green coloured properties are Regent Street, Oxford Street and what else? A: Bond Street
Q: Which Shakespeare refers to jealousy as the green eyed monster? A: Othello
Q: What was the title of Doctor And The Medics only number one hit single? A: Spirit In The Sky
Q: Who wrote Dr Finlay's Casebook? A: AJ Cronin
Q: Which part of your body would a dermatologist be interested in? A: Skin
Q: In 1967, Louis Washkansky became the first person to receive what? A: A human heart transplant
Q: Which famous Italian sportsman is nicknamed the doctor? A: Valentino Rossi
Q: On which Beatles album does the song Dr Robert appear? A: Revolver
Q: The Bicycle manufacturers Trek, Giant and Specialized come from which country ? A: U.S.A.
Q: Which car manufacturer did Colin McRae win his first WRC title ? A: Subaru
Q: Which county did WG grace play cricket for ? A: Gloucester
Q: Which golfer has won the most PGA tour titles ? A: Sam Snead
Q: Which presenter was sacked in 1999 following media reports that he had taken cocaine? A: Richard Bacon
Q: Anthea Turner presented Blue Peter in 1992. She is currently married to Grant Bovey, but she was first married to a Radio 1 DJ from 1990-98. Who was he? A: Peter Powell
Q: Which artist originally designed the logo and badge, and appeared on numerous other children's TV programmes until 2001. A: Tony Hart.
Q: What word can be a noun meaning an employer or supervisor, an adjective meaning first-rate or top notch and the name of a guitar effects pedal manufacturer? A: Boss
Q: Which golfer, born in Worksop, Nottinghamshire, finished 3rd at the US Open in 2008? A: Lee Westwood
Q: Which singer rose to fame as a member of the boy band Dream Street before voicing Theodore in the Chimpunks movies? A: Jesse McCartney
Q: In Harry Enfield's Kevin the teenager sketches, what is the name of Kevin's best friend, played by Kathy Burke? A: Perry
Q: Who played guitar for Genesis from 1970 to 1977, before going on to form Supergroup GTR with Steve Howe from Yes? A: Steve Hackett
Q: What is the name given to the fur of a polecat? A: Fitch
Q: Chelsea won the 2009 FA Cup final 2-1.  Who were the beaten finalists? A: Everton
Q: Where was the first Ashes test of 2009 played? A: Cardiff
Q: In which round of Wimbledon in 2009 was Andy Murray knocked out? A: Semi Final
Q: Who was elected as the Speaker of the House of Commons following the resignation of Michael Martin in June 2009? A: John Bercow
Q: Barack Obama was sworn in as Us President on 20 January 2009.  Who was sworn in as Vice President? A: Joe Biden
Q: In which month of 2009 did Michael Jackson die? A: June
Q: What is couscous made from? A: Semolina
Q: Claret wine is produced in the region surrounding which French city? A: Bordeaux
Q: What type of food is focaccia? A: (Italian) bread
Q: What is the predominant flavour of fennel? A: Aniseed
Q: Which spirit is used in a Daiquiri cocktail? A: Dark rum
Q: What is the dish of stuffed vine leaves called? A: Dolmas
Q: What type of meat is used in moussaka? A: Lamb
Q: Which weekday TV programme is hosted by Adrian Chiles and Christine Bleakely? A: The One Show
Q: Which group sung the 1997 Eurovision Song Contest winning Love Shine A Light? A: Katrina and the Waves
Q: Located in Yorkshire, what are Drax and Eggborough? A: Power Stations
Q: What was the profession of Blackbeard, who operated in the Caribbean Sea in the 18th Century? A: Pirate
Q: Which country is bordered by France, Belgium and Germany? A: Luxembourg
Q: How many times has Italy won the soccer World Cup? A: Four
Q: In the first series of the Esure Insurance TV adverts, Michael Winner's famous quote was Calm down dear, it's only a what? A: Commercial
Q: In 1958, King Faisal ll was murdered at 23 years old. He was the last King of which country? A: Iraq
Q: In May 2009, Millvina Dean died aged 97. She was the last survivor of which historic event? A: The sinking of the Titanic
Q: Who starred as Hawkeye in the 1992 film Last Of The Mohicans? A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: December 1991 saw the last commercial flight of which international airline? A: Pan Am
Q: Who writes Last Of The Summer Wine? A: Roy Clarke
Q: The last British Governor of Hong Kong, Chris Patten, stepped down in 1997, but which country stood down in the neighbouring island of Macau 2 years later? A: Portugal
Q: Who starred as the Last Action Hero? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: What was his name of the last surviving British veteran of World War I, who died in July 2009 at the age of 111? A: Harry Patch
Q: In what year was the winter Olympics held for the first time so as not to coincide with the summer Olympics? A: 1994
Q: Which way do long track speed skaters skate round the rink, clockwise or anti clockwise? A: Anti clockwise
Q: Which country will host the 2014 winter Olympics? A: Russia
Q: Which metal do you get from Hematite? A: Iron
Q: Augusta is the state capital of which US state? A: Maine
Q: In the oringinal Star Trek what was Captain James Kirk's middle name? A: Tiberius
Q: Who was Captain of the Titanic on her maiden voyage? A: Edward J. Smith
Q: Name the two female characters in Scooby Doo? A: Daphne and Velma
Q: In the film `Who Framed Roger Rabbit`, what is the first name of Roger`s wife? A: Jessica
Q: Who sung the theme tune for the film `Goldeneye`? A: Tina Turner
Q: Who is the current Chancellor of Germany? A: Angela Merkel
Q: Bill Clinton was in trouble for "not having sexual relations with that woman" - who was that woman? A: Monica Lewinsky
Q: Which actress starred in Speed? A: Sandra Bullock
Q: What species of wasp can reach up to 55 mm (2.2 in) in length? A: Hornet
Q: Which football club became the first in the 20th century to achieve the League and FA Cup Double, winning both competitions in the 1960–61 season? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: On TV, who played the long suffering wife of Alf Garnett in ‘Till Death Us Do Part’? A: Dandy Nichols
Q: Which popular puppet show of the 80s and 90s specialised in political satire? A: Spitting Image.
Q: Which hand puppet would you associate with Shari Lewis? A: Lamb chop.
Q: Who was Dr Bunsen Honeydew's Muppet assistant, who seemed to get the worst of their experiments? A: Beaker.
Q: Wayland Flowers was an American puppeteer, who had an outragious satirical old woman puppet, aimed at an adult audience, who would be dressed in evening attire and diamonds. Name her. A: Madame.
Q: According to the nursery rhyme Jack And Jill, Jack bound his head with which two items? A: Vinegar and brown paper
Q: Which bands albums include The Works, The Miracle and Made In Heaven? A: Queen
Q: What is the name of the base that the puppets of International Rescue use? A: Tracy Island
Q: What make of gun did Clint Eastwood use in the Dirty Harry films? A: Magnum
Q: By what name is Stanley Burrell better known in the music world? A: MC Hammer
Q: Who presented the National Lottery quiz show Jet Set? A: Eamonn Holmes
Q: Which two brothers had hits with Cathy's Clown and Wake Up Little Susie? A: The Everley Brothers
Q: What are the first names of the two Wild West outlaws who were in the James-Younger gang? A: Jesse and Frank James
Q: Who are the brothers credited with building the world's first successful airplane? A: The Wright Brothers
Q: What is surname of the singing brothers - Alan, Wayne, Merrill, Jay, Donny and Jimmy? A: Osmond
Q: Which two Lincolnshire brothers are attributed with the Methodist movement? A: John and Charles Wesley
Q: What is the name of the author of the Sherlock Holmes books? A: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: What is Sherlock Holmes' exact address? A: 221b Baker Street
Q: In which magazine were the Sherlock Holmes mysteries first published? A: The Strand
Q: What is the name of Sherlock Holmes' most notorious arch enemy? A: Professor James Moriarty
Q: What is the name of Sherlock Holmes' brother? A: Mycroft
Q: The Danube flows into which Sea? A: Black Sea
Q: The Amazon flows through how many countries? A: Seven
Q: The Indus predominately flows through which country? A: Pakistan
Q: Which major river empties into the Gulf of Guinea? A: Niger
Q: The Volga flows into which sea? A: Caspian Sea
Q: Which river originates in China and empties in the South China Sea? A: The Mekong
Q: Which river originates in British Columbia, Canada, and empties into the Bering Sea A: The Yukon
Q: In which Arnold Schwarzenegger movie does he fight an invisible alien creature? A: Predator.
Q: In which 2004 animated Pixar movie does Violet have powers of invisibility? A: The Incredibles.
Q: In which James Bond film does he drive an invisible car? A: Die Another Day.
Q: Which race had a cloaking device in Star Trek? A: Romulans.
Q: Alec Baldwin played which invisible superhero in a 1994 movie? A: The Shadow.
Q: Superhero Susan Storm had powers of invisibility. Of which group was she a member? A: Fantastic Four.
Q: The 1975 TV series The Invisible Man starred which actor, who also appeared in Colditz in the same year? A: David McCallum.
Q: In which 2000 science fiction film did Kevin Bacon become invisible? A: Hollow Man.
Q: What is the name of Charlie Brown's dog? A: Snoopy.
Q: What is the name of the dog in The Simpsons? A: Santas Little Helper.
Q: What was the name of Robbie Jackson's dog in Eastenders? A: Wellard.
Q: What was the name of the dog in Enid Blighton's Famous Five books? A: Timmy.
Q: In 1992 Neil Kinnock lost the general election and was replaced as leader of the Labour party by whom? A: John Smith
Q: Churchill went to the country in the summer of 1945 but was defeated by which Labour leader? A: Clement Atlee
Q: Before going on to win the 1964 election, who made the 'white heat of technology' speech to their party conference? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which olympic cyclist was nicknamed The Flying Scotsman A: Graeme Obree
Q: Which Boxer was known as 'The Brockton Blockbuster' A: Rocky Marciano
Q: Which olympic swimmer was known as 'Eric the Eel'? A: Eric Moussambani
Q: Willie John McBride is associated with which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: What type of animal was World Cup Willie, the 1966 Football World Cup mascot? A: Lion
Q: In which TV show would you find the character Groundskeeper Willie? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which Willie, satirist and co-founder of Private Eye, died on 11th December 1996? A: Willie Rushton
Q: In the 1971 film Willy Wonka was played by Gene Wilder, but who played him in the 2005 re-make Charlie And The Chocolate Facory? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Which Guns n Roses song from the album Appetite For Destruction begins: Your daddy works in porno now that mommy's not around. She used to love her heroin but now she's underground? A: My Michelle
Q: Which 1986 Alan Clarke film is about 2 teenage babysiters from Bradford who have an affair with a married man? A: Rita Sue and Bob Too
Q: Which ex-comic is married to Billy Connolly? A: Pamela Stephenson
Q: In the tv show Charmed, what was the name of the eldest sister (played by Shannen Doherty) who was killed off at the end of Season 3? A: Prue Halliwell
Q: Who was married to Spandau Ballet's Gary Kemp and later to Jude Law? A: Sadie Frost
Q: What name is given to any work of religious art which depicts the baby Jesus with his mother? A: Madonna and Child
Q: Fawlty Towers was supposedly set in which seaside town? A: Torquay
Q: Who played the part of Compo in Last Of The Summer Wine? A: Bill Owen
Q: Bill Pertwee played which character in Dads Army? A: Warden Hodges
Q: What do Australians call a dry stream bed that fills with water when it rains? A: Billabong
Q: n which country would you find both the rivers Oder and Vistula, which flow into the Baltic Sea? A: Poland
Q: What is the only US state which borders one other state only? A: Maine
Q: Winston Churchill's mother came from which country? A: USA
Q: Where was Napoleon Bonaparte born? A: Corsica
Q: In which country was the composer Chopin born? A: Poland
Q: In which country was Joseph Stalin born? A: Georgia
Q: The Bee Gees are popularly credited as being from Australia, but on which island were they actually born? A: Isle of Man
Q: In which country was JRR Tolkien born? A: South Africa
Q: Mother Theresa was born in which country? A: Macedonia
Q: The 1918 pandemic was given what name? A: Spanish Flu
Q: What is the name of the dog that appears on His Masters Voice lables? A: Nipper
Q: Who owned the black labrador that was killed on the evening of the Dam Busters raid? A: Guy Gibson
Q: Blondi was a German Shepherd that belonged to whom? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: What is the name of the only book written by Anna Sewell? A: Black Beauty
Q: What is the name of Tintin's wire haired terrier? A: Snowy
Q: What is the name of the lion in the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer logo? A: Leo
Q: What is the name of the baboon/witch doctor from The Lion King? A: Rafiki
Q: Who was often heard to say "Stupid boy" in the series Dads Army? A: Captain Mainwaring
Q: What was the name of the character often used in the pictures in Roy Walker's programme "Catchphrase"? A: Mr Chips
Q: Which television character is well known for his catchphrase "D'oh"? A: Homer Simpson
Q: Which TV character was often heard to say "I pity the fool"? A: B A Baracus
Q: "You get nothing for a pair" was a Bruce Forsyth catchphrase in which programme? A: Play Your Cards Right
Q: Who was known for the catchphrase Bernie, ... the bolt? A: Bob Monkhouse
Q: What you talkin' about Willis was a catchphrase for the late Gary Coleman in which TV series? A: Diff'rent Strokes
Q: Which wild-card won Wimbledon in 2001? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: What is the maximum number of ball girls or boys allowed on court at any one time? A: 6
Q: What is the total number of grass courts at Wimbledon? A: 19
Q: What nationality is Tomas Berdych, who defeated Roger Federer on his way to the final of the Men's Singles at Wimbledon in 2010? A: Czech
Q: Who partnered Jamie Murray when he won the mixed doubles title at Wimbledon in 2007? A: Jelena Jankovic
Q: Which player famously cried on the Duchess of Kent's shoulder after losing the final of the Ladies Singles at Wimbledon in 1993? A: Jana Novotna
Q: What was the name of Adam and the ants first album called? A: Dirk Wears White Sox
Q: Who sang the song Maniac from the movie Flashdance? A: Michael Sembello
Q: Ginger Baker was the drummer from which band? A: Cream
Q: What singers real name is Michael Barratt? A: Shakin Stevens
Q: Graham Nash from Crosby Stills and Nash was originally a member of which U.K. group? A: The Hollies
Q: What band consists of Gerard Way, Mikey Way, Ray Toro, Frank Iero and Bob Briar? A: My Chemical Romance
Q: By what name did Priscilla White find fame in the world of music? A: Cilla Black
Q: By what other name is Jonas Altberg better known? A: Basshunter
Q: Doctor Who's companion Leela went on to star in which soap? A: Eastenders
Q: What is the name of the Daleks home planet? A: Skaro
Q: Who played the first Doctor? A: William Hartnell
Q: The Lord of the Rings was written as a sequel to which book? A: The Hobbit
Q: At the start of The Fellowship of the Ring, which birthday is Bilbo Baggins celebrating? A: 111th
Q: Gollum killed his brother for the One ring. What was his brother's name? A: Deagol
Q: Who changes colour during The Two Towers, from Grey to White? A: Gandalf
Q: Name the Ent who befriends Merry and Pippin in Fanghorn forest. A: Treebeard
Q: Who was the last woman to be executed for murder in the UK? A: Ruth Ellis
Q: Murderer Donald Neilson was otherwise known by what name? A: Black Panther
Q: Which notorious American serial killer defended himself in court in 1979? A: Ted Bundy
Q: Which nurse was called the Angel of Death after murdering 4 children in 1991? A: Beverley Allitt
Q: Which British serial killer was played by Richard Attenborough in a 1971 movie? A: John Christie
Q: Betty Driver played which role in Coronation Street? A: Betty Williams
Q: Which fictional character drove a white Volvo P1800? A: The Saint
Q: Minnie Driver was nominated for an Academy Award for her role in Good Will Hunting in 1997, but who played the title role? A: Matt Damon
Q: What is the surname of the only Russian F1 driver in the 2010 season? A: (Vitaly) Petrov
Q: Who drove the `Cannonball Express` in a 1958 TV children's programme? A: Casey Jones
Q: The mandible and maxilla make up which part of the body? A: Jaw
Q: Which romantic film directed by David Lean is set in World War 2 and based in and around Milford railway station? A: Brief Encounter
Q: In which year was the German battleship The Bismarck sunk by the Royal Navy? A: 1941
Q: Springfield is the home of the Simpsons, and is also the real-life capital of which US State? A: Illinois
Q: Which World Champion darts player has the nickname Darth Maple A: John Part
Q: When the musical Chicago won the Best Picture Oscar in 2002 it was the 1st musical to do so since which 1968 film? A: Oliver!
Q: Which Mexican dish which translates as little donkey is based around folded soft tortillas and is now a favourite breakfast dish in the USA? A: Burrito
Q: David Day and Thereze Bazar had hits in the 1980s under what name? A: Dollar
Q: Which word was introduced on coins in 1971 before being dropped in 1982? A: New
Q: What nationality was the inventor of the Rubik's Cube? A: Hungarian
Q: Which General became the 18th US President after leading the Union Army to victory in the Civil War? A: Ulysses S Grant
Q: The 1927 movie The General starred which actor? A: Buster Keaton
Q: Which US General, nicknamed "Stormin'" was commander of the coalition forces in the Gulf War of 1991? A: Gen Norman Schwarzkopf.
Q: Which British submarine sunk the General Belgrano during the Falklands War in 1982? A: HMS Conqueror.
Q: Who was General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers' Union from 1992 to 2003, and the first black leader of a British trade union? A: Bill Morris.
Q: The General Synod is the legislative body of the Church of England, instituted in 1970. By what name was this body known prior to 1970? A: The Church Assembly.
Q: In Worzel Gummidge, who played the character of Aunty Sally? A: Una Stubbs
Q: What cartoon series featured a character called Little My? A: The Moomins
Q: Who created and wrote the TV series Maid Marian And Her Merry Men? A: Tony Robinson
Q: The cartoon series Dogtanian And The Three Muskehounds was based on a book by which author? A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: In the TV show The Flumps, how many Flumps where there? A: 6
Q: "Caravane" is the brand name of a cheese produced in Mauritania. From which animal is the milk taken? A: Camel.
Q: Peter was the first Pope but who was the second? A: Pope Linus
Q: What is Benedict XVI 's real name? A: Joseph Ratzinger.
Q: In which area of Germany was he born and raised? A: Bavaria
Q: True or False. Pope Adrian the 2nd was the last married Pope? A: True
Q: When looking at a list of Popes, you will sometimes see the letters O.S.B. following a name. What does this mean? A: Order of Saint Benedict.
Q: How many lions guard Nelson's Column? A: Four
Q: Which is the busiest London Underground Station? A: Victoria
Q: Fenchurch Street, Liverpool Street, Kings Cross,... what completes this set? A: Marylebone
Q: Which author gave the copyright of the Peter Pan works to Great Ormond Street Hospital? A: J M Barrie
Q: Who did Michael Fagan famously wake up in London in July 1982? A: The Queen
Q: What was the number given to Patrick McGoohan in the TV series The Prisoner? A: Number 6
Q: In Star Trek, by what nickname is Dr Leonard McCoy better known? A: Bones
Q: In Buffy The Vampire Slayer, what is Buffy's surname? A: Summers
Q: What was the name of the Bionic Man? A: Steve Austin
Q: In The X-files, what is the name of Mulder and Skully's assistant director? A: Walter Skinner
Q: In The Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy, what was the name of the best drink in existence? A: The pan-galactic gargle blaster
Q: "One" is a popular song in which stage musical and movie of the same name. A: Chorus Line.
Q: In the 1986 comedy movie The Three Amigos, who starred alongside Steve Martin and Chevy Chase in the title roles. A: Martin Short.
Q: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are described in the Book of Revelations as representing Death, War, Famine, and Conquest, but Conquest has been changed in modern times. By what name is it more commonly known? A: Pestilence.
Q: In which year was the Six Day War fought between Israel, Egypt, Syria and Jordan. A: 1967
Q: In the 1995 movie thriller Seven, who played the serial killer. A: Kevin Spacey
Q: In the lyrics of the Twelve Days of Christmas, what are there nine of? A: Ladies Dancing
Q: The 1956 movie the Ten Commandments starred Charlton Heston as Moses, but which Hollywood star played his adopted brother Rameses II. A: Yul Brynner
Q: Which James Bond film was the first to be given a non PG rating by the British Board of Film Classification? A: License to Kill
Q: Which Actor to play James Bond is the only one mentioned in text by Ian Flemming? A: David Niven
Q: Which James Bond Theme was the first to be nominated for an academy award for best original song? A: Live and let die
Q: How many James Bond Themes did Dame Shirley Bassey Perform? A: Three
Q: How many Bond Films did Joe Don Baker appear in? A: 3
Q: How many actors in the James Bond Films have played both a good guy and a Bad Guy? A: Three
Q: Name the BBC sequel to Till Death Us Do Part. A: In Sickness and in Health
Q: How many episodes of Fawlty Towers were made?. A: 12
Q: Which legndary  sports commentator presented ITV's The Big Match?. A: Brian Moore
Q: what was the name of the cow in The Magic Roundabout?. A: Ermintrude
Q: Windsor Davies played which character in It Ain't Half Hot Mum?. A: Sergeant Major Shut Up Williams
Q: the Naked Civil Servant starred which character?. A: Quentin Crisp
Q: Which comedian was born Charles Edward Springall? A: Charlie Drake
Q: In cricket, if you are out without scoring, what is it called? A: Duck
Q: Who was prime minister of Britain from 1970 to 1974? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who became the Chief Executive of the Professional Footballers' Association in 1981, and is reputed to be the highest paid union official in the world? A: Gordon Taylor
Q: Which singer songwriter's new album is called Some Kind Of Trouble'. He made his name with his debut album Back to Bedlam' in 2005? A: James Blunt
Q: . Bill Waddington played which Coronation Street character? A: Percy Sugden
Q: What is another name for a Scottish church? A: A Kirk
Q: What 2002 novel by Alice Sebold, is the story of a teenage girl who, after being murdered, watches from heaven as her family and friends struggle to move on with their lives while she comes to terms with her own death. A: The Lovely Bones
Q: The Aberdeen Terrier is better known as what type of dog? A: Scotty dog
Q: What was the name of the American pediatrician whose book Baby and Child Care, was published in 1946? A: Benjamin Spock
Q: Which village in Essex  which sits on the River Colne, is famous for its Victorian viaduct that crosses the Colne valley A: Chappel
Q: Who was the Roman god of fire? A: Vulcan
Q: What was the nickname of the H4 Hercules flying boat, that never went into production after it's maiden flight due to post war cutbacks in 1947. A: The Spruce Goose
Q: Flying Down to Rio is a 1933 movie that saw the first screen pairing of which partnership. A: Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers.
Q: Which group had a hit with Flying Without Wings in 1999 A: Westlife
Q: Which member of Monty Python's Flying Circus was largely responsible for the animation, including the giant foot in the show's opening sequence. A: Terry Gilliam
Q: What is the correct name for the "Flying Lady" ornament on a Rolls Royce radiator. A: The Spirit of Ecstasy.
Q: The Flying Wallendas were a circus act and daredevil stunt performers with Barnum & Bailey for 40 years, and Karl Wallenda was known for high wire performances. From which country did they originate. A: Germany
Q: What is the name of the victim in 'Cluedo'? A: Dr Black
Q: How many white squares are there on a chess board? A: 32
Q: How many rooms are there in 'Cluedo'? A: 9
Q: Who were the last act to win the Eurovision Song Contest for the UK? A: Katrina And The Waves
Q: What is the musical term for one or more vocalists performing without an accompaniment? A: A Cappella
Q: What is the smallest woodwind instrument in an orchestra? A: Piccolo
Q: In which year did The Beatles officially split? A: 1970
Q: Which organ of the human body is affected by Hepatitis? A: Liver
Q: How many muscles are there in a human finger? A: None
Q: What is the third largest planet in the Solar System? A: Uranus
Q: Which part of the male does a female mantis usually bite off during mating? A: Head
Q: What is the more common name of the medical condition 'Diplopia'? A: Double-vision
Q: Which P.M was voted pipe smoker of the year? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Who was the first P.M? A: Robert Walpole
Q: Who was P.M at the time of the profumo affair? A: Harold MacMillan
Q: Which British actor starred in the 1975 movie Paper Tiger A: David Niven
Q: How many pieces of paper make up a Quire. A: 25
Q: How many Quires make up a Ream A: 20
Q: On which horse did Tony McCoy win the 2010 Grand National on his 15th attempt? A: Don't Push It
Q: Which team won the  Aviva Premiership (rugby union) in 2009/10? A: Leicester Tigers
Q: Who won the 2010 French Open Women's Singles final in June? A: Francesca Schiavone
Q: Which team won Super Bowl XLIV in February 2010? A: New Orleans Saints
Q: Which Red Bull driver was Formula One 2010 World Champion? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: Who was the 2010 MotoGP champion? A: Jorge Lorenzo
Q: Who replaced David Tennant as Doctor Who in January? A: Matt Smith
Q: In April, the BBC announced that who would be replacing Adrian Chiles on the One Show for Fridays, which ultimately led to him quitting the BBC for a four-year deal with ITV? A: Chris Evans
Q: Which singer was given an eight-week sentence for crashing his car into a branch of photographic store Snappy Snaps while under the influence of cannabis in July. A: George Michael
Q: Haggis is a national delicacy of which country? A: Scotland
Q: Madeira Wine is a product of which country? A: Portugal
Q: In which country did chop suey originate? A: U.S.A
Q: Red Stripe beer comes from which country? A: Jamaica
Q: From which country does Stella Artois come? A: Belgium
Q: Who was the first woman in the Bible? A: Eve
Q: Athlete Florence Griffith Joyner was commonly known by what nickname? A: Flo Jo
Q: Who was the first female governor of Alaska? A: Sarah Palin
Q: What is the name of the Peter Griffin's wife in Family Guy? A: Lois
Q: Which actress has won more Best Actress Oscars than anyone else? A: Katherine Hepburn
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the mother of Oedipus? A: Jocasta
Q: Who was lead singer of The Bangles? A: Susanna Hoffs
Q: Which US President was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who was assassinated on the Ides of March? A: Julius Caesar
Q: According to William Shakespeare, who killed Duncan? A: Macbeth
Q: Which ex-Prime Minister of Pakistan was assassinated in December 2007? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: Which war hero and escapee from Colditz was assassinated in 1979? A: Airey Neave
Q: Who shot and killed Lee Harvey Oswald? A: Jack Ruby
Q: The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria caused what cataclysmic world event? A: The First World War
Q: Andrey Lugovoy is wanted by British police on suspicion of the murder of whom? A: Alexander Litvinenko
Q: Which famous person did Mark Chapman kill in December 1980? A: John Lennon
Q: Which famous TV cowboy was played by Clayton Moore? A: The Lone Ranger
Q: Who played the Ringo Kid in the film Stagecoach? A: John Wayne
Q: Which real life law enforcer did Henry Fonda play in the film My Darling Clementine? A: Wyatt Earp
Q: In which American State did the Gunfight at the OK Corral take place? A: Arizona
Q: Who played English Bob in the film Unforgiven? A: Richard Harris
Q: Which tribe did Crazy Horse lead? A: Sioux
Q: Alec Guinness played Sid Stratton in The Man in the White Suit' in a film made as part of which famous studio's comedy classics. A: Ealing
Q: What is the first bridge that the boats pass under in the Oxford - Cambridge boat race? A: Hammersmith
Q: What is the capital of Jamaica? A: Kingston
Q: New York is made up of five boroughs - Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn, The Bronx and which other? A: Queens
Q: Of which regal title is Princess Anne the seventh holder? A: Princess Royal
Q: How many is there in a bakers dozen? A: 13
Q: Who scored the first ever Golden Goal in the 1998 World Cup? A: Laurent Blanc
Q: What is the Capital City of Latvia? A: Riga
Q: Who was British Primeminister between 1880 - 1885? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: Gordon Sumner is better known as whom? A: Sting
Q: Who won the 2002 FA Cup? A: Arsenal
Q: What is the english translation of Carpe Diem? A: Seize the Day
Q: New York is made up of five districts, Manhattan, Richmond, Brooklyn, Bronx and which other? A: Queens
Q: Which river forms much of the border between England and Scotland? A: Tweed
Q: In which European country is the city of Strasbourg? A: France
Q: What is the largest of the Greek islands? A: Crete
Q: In which country is Transylvania? A: Romania
Q: Which country do the Faroe Islands belong to? A: Denmark
Q: The name of which European capital city is derived from the names of two towns on either bank of its main river? A: Budapest
Q: What spirit is used to make Daquari? A: Rum
Q: What is the flavour of `Ouzo`? A: Aniseed
Q: Which evergreen tree's berries are used to flavour gin? A: Juniper
Q: From what fruit is the French cordial syrup of Grenadine made? A: Pomegranate
Q: What is added to tomato juice to make a Bloody Maria? A: Tequila
Q: Tom Cruise plays a naval lawyer in which 1992 film? A: A Few Good Men
Q: Who played Popeye in the movie of the same name? A: Robin Williams
Q: Dustin Hoffman played a character suffering from Autism in which Film? A: Rain Man
Q: Which film star has a statue in Leicester Square? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: Which actress was in both the 60s and 90s versions of The Thomas Crown Affair? A: Faye Dunaway
Q: Which singer / actress played the character 'mayday' in the James bond film 'A view to a kill' A: Grace Jones
Q: Who played the title role in the film Shirley Valentine? A: pauline Collins
Q: Who plays Lara Croft in the Tomb Raider movies? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: Who is Warren Beatty's famous sister? A: Shirley Maclaine
Q: Who won an Oscar for Best Actress for the film Sophie's Choice? A: Meryl Streep
Q: From which film does the saying ''Hasta la vista, baby" come? A: Terminator
Q: From which film comes the line 'Mrs. Robinson, you're trying to seduce me... aren't you?' A: The Graduate
Q: Which actress, upon splitting with her partner said, At least I can wear high heels now"? A: Nicole Kidman
Q: Currently based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, which major German multinational company  produces high-end athletic shoes? A: Puma.
Q: What material  is made primarily from the shell of the Hawksbill turtle? A: Tortoise Shell
Q: Instrumental composition by Henry Mancini written as the theme for this 1963 film? A: The Pink Panther.
Q: Conjoined twins are also known as what? A: Siamese Twins
Q: What is the fourth book of the old testament? A: Numbers
Q: In which year did a terrorist group kill eleven hostages at the Olympic Games? A: 1972
Q: Which 1946 film was an adaptation of Raymond Chandler's crime novel of the same name? A: The Big Sleep
Q: Which influential German philosopher wrote 'Being and Time'? A: Martin Heidegger
Q: Which American society magazine merged into Vogue in 1936? A: Vanity Fair
Q: Who composed the opera 'HĂ¤nsel und Gretel'? A: Engelbert Humperdinck
Q: Which country is the largest producer of saffron? A: Iran
Q: In which American state is Area 51 located? A: Nevada
Q: What now stands on the site of the place of execution at Tyburn? A: Marble Arch
Q: Which London river, now flowing underground, rises at Finsbury Circus, flows through the City of London and enters the Thames by Cannon Street railway station? A: River Walbrook
Q: What was the name of the first prefabricated building that was erected on the medieval London Bridge in 1577? A: Nonsuch House
Q: The Crystal Palace was re-erected on which hill in South London after the Great Exhibition of 1851? A: Sydenham Hill
Q: Outside of which building in Whitehall was King Charles I executed? A: The Banqueting House
Q: During the English Civil War the Parliamentarians held London. In which city did the Royalists establish their rival capital? A: Oxford
Q: Which ancient, fierce warrior nation, upon attacking ancient Israel, . came down like a wolf on the fold'? A: The Assyrians
Q: At which naval battle in WWII did the Americans decisively defeat the Japanese Carrier Task Force? A: Battle of Midway
Q: The bombardment of which fort was the act which started the American Civil War? A: Fort Sumpter
Q: Which WWI battle occurred on a peninsular south of Istanbul in Turkey? A: Gallipoli
Q: What is the highest mountain in England? A: Scafell Pike
Q: Which city is known as the Granite City'? A: Aberdeen
Q: Aquae Sulis is the Roman name for which modern city? A: Bath
Q: Which range of hills in the west country has Cheddar Gorge and it's caves as well as Wookey Hole caves? A: The Mendip Hills
Q: What is the name of the extensive area of marshland on the south-east coast of Kent? A: Romney Marshes
Q: What is the name of the World Heritage Site on the coastline of Dorset and East Devon? A: The Jurassic Coast
Q: Which word, common in the South of England, describes a steep-sided river valley where the water flows through coastal cliffs to the sea? A: A chine
Q: What was the UK's earliest National Park? A: The Peak District
Q: Who played the title role in the movie Billy Elliot. A: Jamie Bell
Q: Which actress danced the twist with John Travolta in Pulp Fiction A: Uma Thurman
Q: Babs Lord (the tall blonde one in Pan's People) has been married to which English actor since 1975. A: Robert Powell
Q: Dame Marie Rambert founded her own dancing school in the 1920s, In which country was she born. A: Poland.
Q: James Arness played Marshall Matt Dillon in Gunsmoke. Who was his actor brother. A: Peter Graves
Q: What is the surname of the Chuckle brothers? A: Elliot.
Q: Who is the TV personality brother of radio presenter Janice Long? A: Keith Chegwin.
Q: Which of the Marx brothers never spoke on screen after his first appearance in 1925? A: Harpo.
Q: Cricketing brothers Ian & Greg Chappell have both captained Australia. A third Chappell brother has also played for his country, what is his name. A: Trevor
Q: In which city did IOC president Jacques Rogge announce London as the host of the 2012 Olympic Games? A: Singapore
Q: Which is the only position on a netball field designated with a single letter on the bib worn by each player? A: Centre
Q: On a cricket field which principal position is between Mid-on and Square leg? A: Mid-wicket
Q: If you box in a left handed stance is described as southpaw.  How is the stance of a right handed boxer usually described? A: Orthodox
Q: Which US city is host to teams called the Penguins in Ice Hockey and the Pirates in Baseball? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Apart from Newcastle United, which other English Football League team plays their home matches at a ground called St James' Park? A: Exeter City
Q: Which 60s fashion icon gave it all up to run a hotel in Cornwall? A: Jean Shrimpton
Q: Who was the first artistic director of the National Theatre, started at the Old Vic in 1963? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: Which long-running television programme started on the day after President Kennedy's assasination? A: Doctor Who
Q: The Beatles had an unbroken run of number one British singles from 1963 until, in March 1967, they were pushed into second place. By which singer? A: Engelbert Humperdinck
Q: The Profumo affair is frequently blamed for bringing down the Conservative government in 1964. Who created the scandal by introducing John Profumo to Christine Keeler? A: Stephen Ward
Q: Which famous piece of music was commissioned for the reconsecration of Coventry Cathedral in 1962? A: The War Requiem
Q: The Biba boutiques were at the heart of swinging London and at one time had the highest turnover of any British retail company. Who founded and ran Biba? A: Barbara Hulanicki
Q: What is caused by the gravitational pull of the Moon and Sun on Earth? A: The tides
Q: In geology what is the term used for the layer between the Earth's crust and the core? A: The Mantle
Q: Which gas forms about 78% of the Earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: The lowest part of the Earth's atmosphere, where we live, is called what? A: The Troposphere
Q: What is the name of the effect that deflects winds and currents as a result of the Earth's rotation? A: The Coriolus Effect
Q: In the distant past what was the name given to the Super-Continent that made up the majority land mass of Earth? A: Pangaea
Q: What is the name for the study of Continental Drift? A: Plate Tectonics
Q: Cullen Skink is a hearty soup made with potatoes, onion and which fish? A: Smoked Haddock
Q: Which common kitchen herb is used in a Mojito? A: Mint
Q: Which fruit goes into the liqueur Kirsch? A: Cherry
Q: What is the main ingredient of Guacamole? A: Avocado
Q: Rigatoni is what type of Italian food? A: Pasta
Q: The Harvey Wall Banger cocktail contain Vodka, orange juice and what else? A: Galliano
Q: Which chef presents 'Saturday Morning Kitchen' on TV? A: James Martin
Q: What alcoholic drink is made from molasses? A: Rum
Q: In Greek cuisine a vine or cabbage leaf with a savoury stuffing is called what? A: A Dolma
Q: What was the name of the cavalry regiment raised and trained by Oliver Cromwell in the English Civil War? A: The Ironsides
Q: William Howard Russell became famous as what during the Crimean War? A: War Correspondent
Q: The Bourbon dynasty began to rule which country from 1700 and still do? A: Spain
Q: What was abolished in Russia in 1861? A: Serfdom
Q: Near which city in Russia did the greatest tank battle of World War II take place in July 1943? A: Kursk
Q: At the battle of Ashdown, in A.D 871, the Danes were defeated by forces under which famous king? A: King Alfred
Q: What did Prince Albert, consort of Queen Victoria, die of? A: Typhoid
Q: Who was the first monarch of the House of Tudor? A: Henry VII
Q: Which World War II General was nicknamed The Desert Fox? A: General Erwin Rommel
Q: Who was the English King at the Battle of Agincourt? A: Henry V
Q: Who were allied with the French Naval forces during The Battle of Trafalgar? A: Spain
Q: Who was the Supreme Allied Commander during the D Day landings of 1944? A: General Dwight D Eisenhower
Q: What RAF squardron number was nicknamed The Dambusters? A: 617
Q: The Seiges of Ladysmith and Mafeking were military actions during which war? A: Second Boer War
Q: In which rock band was Fish the lead singer A: Marillion
Q: In Finding Nemo, what was the name of Nemo's father. A: Marlin
Q: Which progressive rock band had a track called The Fish on their 1971 album Fragile, their 4th album, but the first to feature Rick Wakeman. A: Yes
Q: Who starred in the 1991 movie The Fisher King A: Robin Williams
Q: What is the currency name in Bulgaria? A: Lev
Q: Which comedian, writer & actor had the character Loadsamoney' which he played on his TV shows? A: Harry Enfield
Q: Which actress played Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond films fourteen times, from Dr. No (1962) until her final performance of the character in A View to a Kill (1985). A: Lois Maxwell
Q: True Cashmere is a product of which kind of animal? A: Cashmere Goat
Q: Which 1964 film, starring Stanley Baker and Jack Hawkins depicted the 1879 Battle of Rorke's Drift? A: Zulu
Q: These were "star-cross'd lovers" whose deaths ultimately unite their feuding families.  What were their names? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: What is the name of the only Canadian province to have French as its sole official language? A: Quebec
Q: According to Greek Mythology, what was the name of the mountain nymph who falls in love with Narcissus? A: Echo
Q: A discovery by Professor Wilhelm Roentgen in the 1890s led to which amazing medical invention? A: X-Ray
Q: Claude Monet, King Hussein of Jordan and Prince Charles all share the same birthday - the 14th .... of  which month? A: November
Q: This word has seven letters, it came before god, is greater than god, more evil than the devil, poor people have it, rich people want it, if you eat it you would die. What is it? A: Nothing
Q: What is Mad-Eye Moody's first name? A: Alastor
Q: How many horcruxes are there? A: 8
Q: What is the fulkl name of the Headmaster of Hogwarts who is killed in book 6? A: Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore
Q: Who is the poltergeist at Hogwarts? A: Peeves
Q: Which British Blue Peter presenter is attempting, in January 2012, to get to the South Pole on a variety modes of transport - including a bike and kite ski? A: Helen Skelton
Q: Which British explorer was the  first ship's captain to stop the disease scurvy (now known to be caused by a lack of vitamin C) among sailors by providing them with fresh fruits? A: Captain James Cook
Q: Which Portuguese explorer discovered an ocean route from Portugal to the East - thought to be impossible at the time - in 1497?? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: In the Old English saga Beowulf, what is the name of the monster? A: Grendel
Q: A village in North Wales is named for the grave of a legendary dog. What is it's name? A: Beddgelert
Q: Doncaster airport takes its name from which figure in folklore? A: Robin Hood
Q: In Arthurian legend, who fought the Green Night? A: Gawain
Q: What is the name given to the collection of Welsh legends? A: The Mabinogion
Q: St George is the patron saint of England, but in which country would you find his tomb? A: Israel
Q: What is a crate of twelve bottles of wine called. A: Case
Q: Which cheese is known as the King of English cheeses. A: Stilton
Q: How many normal size wine bottles in a Methuselah. A: Eight
Q: Which group had a Top Ten hit in 1986 with 'Hunting High And Low'. A: A-Ha
Q: Who starred as Will Kane in the 1952 film 'High Noon'. A: Gary Cooper
Q: What is the highest mountain in Germany. A: Zugspitze
Q: In which year was The Highway Code first published. A: 1931
Q: What is the name of Frank and Betty Spencer's daughter in Some Mothers Do Have Em? A: Jessica
