Q: With which series of films do you associate the character Emmett Brown, Ph.D.? A: BACK TO THE FUTURE
Q: Born in 1964, which model is nicknamed The Body? A: ELLE MACPHERSON
Q: Which actor links the films ‘Mrs. Doubtfire’, ‘Dante’s Peak’, and ‘Mamma Mia!’? A: PIERCE BROSNAN
Q: Which ‘Carry On’ actor was married to Janet Brown from 1947 until his death in 1979? A: PETER BUTTERWORTH
Q: Michael Scofield was the protagonist in which popular US tv series? A: PRISON BREAK
Q: Who played the part of Captain Renault in the classic film ‘Casablanca’? A: CLAUDE RAINS
Q: Who is credited with commercializing jigsaw puzzles around 1760? A: John SPILSBURY
Q: Born in 1921, who connects ‘Are You Being Served?’ with ‘Last of the Summer Wine’? A: FRANK THORNTON
Q: On May 23rd, Ireland voted in favour of what? A: SAME-SEX MARRIAGES.
Q: Appointed head of OFSTED in 1994, he died on June 23rd. Who was he? A: CHRIS WOODHEAD
Q: What type of rock is formed when lava or magma cools? A: IGNEOUS
Q: What is the name of Tintin’s fox terrier dog? A: SNOWY
Q: What is the name of the second book in ‘The Lord of the Rings’ trilogy? A: THE TWO TOWERS
Q: Which popular holiday destination is the largest lake in Italy? A: Lake GARDA
Q: Who were the intended targets of the ‘Cat and Mouse’ Act of 1913? A: SUFFRAGETTES
Q: Glenn Frey died in January. Of what pop band was he a member? A: The EAGLES
Q: Where in the UK can you see the giant pandas Yang Guang and Tian Tian? A: EDINBURGH ZOO
Q: Which relative of the guinea pig is the largest rodent in the world? A: CAPYBARA
Q: Meles Meles is the Latin name for which European mammal? A: BADGER
Q: A new convert to any particular religion or doctrine is known as a what? (Nine letters.) A: PROSELYTE
Q: Benny Hill’s real first name was Alfred. What was his middle name? A: HAWTHORN
Q: With the formula C6H12O6, what is also known as grape sugar? A: DEXTROSE
Q: What word in our language comes from the French for ‘sour wine’? A: VINEGAR
Q: The musical term ‘toccata’ comes to us from what language? A: ITALIAN
Q: The use of exaggeration as a rhetorical device or figure of speech is known as what? A: HYPERBOLE
Q: What name is given to a star's outer shell from which light is radiated? A: PHOTOSPHERE
Q: What role did Henry Travers play in a famous and still-popular 1946 film? A: CLARENCE ODBODY
Q: What part did Bill Travers play in ‘Born Free’ (1966)? A: GEORGE ADAMSON
Q: On the London underground only one station contains a single vowel. Which station? A: Bank
Q: Which crime writer created the detectives Jimmy Perez and Vera Stanhope? A: Ann Cleeves
Q: Which crime writer created the fictional partnership of Rizzoli and Isles? A: Tess Gerritsen
Q: What is the first name of Andy Murray’s elder brother? A: JAMIE
Q: Which capital city was supposedly founded by Yuri the log armed? A: Moscow
Q: In which month are St David’s Day and St Patrick’s Day celebrated in the UK? A: March
Q: What is the title of Damien Hurst’s 1994 work featuring a cow and calf in formaldehyde? A: Mother and Child Divided
Q: Physics. What is the SI unit for amount of substance? A: Mole
Q: Which ancient measurement ran from the elbow to the tip of the longest finger? A: Cubit
Q: What part of the body is affected by Cholecystitis? A: Gall Bladder
Q: Which birds gather in ‘Screaming Parties’ on summer evenings? A: Swifts
Q: What is the poetic name for the song thrush? A: Mavis
Q: What was the name of the bird killed and eaten by Captain Edmund Blackadder? A: Speckled Jim
Q: In August 1969, what notable event took place on Max Yasgur’s farm? A: Woodstock festival
Q: What was the name of the farmyard cock in the story of Reynard the Fox? A: Chanticleer
Q: Amol Rajan is the editor of which national daily newspaper? A: Independent
Q: In 1917, media baron Max Aitken took what title on his elevation to the peerage? A: Beaverbrook
Q: In which publication could you read a column Called to Ordure written by Gavel Basher? A: Private Eye
Q: Which pop group had a 1984 UK top ten hit record entitled ‘Master and Servant’? A: Depeche Mode
Q: Which saint had a beehive as his emblem? A: Ambrose
Q: On which date is All Saints day celebrated in the Western Church? A: November 1st
Q: Which saint, according to legend, nipped the Devil’s nose with red hot tongs? A: Dunstan
Q: What is the main town of the Isle of Skye? A: Portree
Q: What is the alternative six letter name for Carbolic Acid? A: Phenol
Q: What type of fish is used in an Arbroath Smokie? A: Haddock
Q: Which country is ruled by the House of Thani? A: Qatar
Q: Which Andre Lloyd-Webber musical was banned in South Africa in the 1970’s? A: Jesus Christ Superstar
Q: Which magazine features a strip entitled Sid the Sexist? A: Viz
Q: Which county won the second division of the county championship? A: Hampshire
Q: Which county finished bottom of division one with a record low points total? A: Northamptonshire
Q: Of which Roman poet was Maro the family name? A: Virgil
Q: Of which Roman poet was Flaccus the family name? A: Horace
Q: Sand gropers traditionally hail from which Australian state? A: Western Australia
Q: In which town is the San Fermin Running of the Bulls festival held annually? A: Pamplona
Q: In Hinduism what name is given to the festival of Colour or Colours? A: Holi
Q: A name meaning spiny skin, Starfish belong to which animal phylum? A: Echinoderms
Q: Which Spanish city was the home of the artist El Greco? A: Toledo
Q: What is the first of Elizabeth Kubler-Ross’ Five stages of grief? A: Denial
Q: Mary Alice Young was the dead narrator of which TV drama? A: Desperate Housewives
Q: Which body of water is nicknamed ‘The Blue Eye Of Siberia’? A: Lake Baikal
Q: What is the common English name of Mozart’s Serenade for Strings in d major? A: A Little Night Music
Q: In which 1988 film did Davis play the title character with the surname Ufgood? A: Willow
Q: Who was the father of Ophelia? A: Polonius
Q: Who was the father of Desdemona? A: Brabantio
Q: South Carolina is bordered by North Carolina and which other state? A: Georgia
Q: Fougasse, associated with Provence, is what type of food? A: Bread
Q: In song, what must a child do to get a ‘fishie in a little dishie’? A: Dance to your Daddie
Q: Which is the only freshwater member of the Cod family? A: Burbot
Q: Mount Botrange at 694 metres, is the highest point of which European country? A: Belgium
Q: What name is shared by a crustacean and a goose of the genus Branta? A: Barnacle
Q: Which city is Linked to the M4 by the M32? A: Bristol
Q: In September 2001, who had a UK number one single with Mambo number 5? A: Bob the Builder
Q: In which city did the 2014 Giro D’Italia cycle race begin? A: Belfast
Q: The Little (Tetrax Tetrax) and Great (Otis Tarda) are which birds? A: Bustards
Q: Devadatta repeatedly tried to kill which religious leader? A: Buddha
Q: Which 12th century Cistercian Abbey’s remains stand just outside Ripon? A: Fountains Abbey
Q: Nicknamed Napoleon, Marcus Chamat has represented Europe in which sport? A: Pool
Q: Who wrote the 1904 novel The Napoleon of Notting Hill? A: G.K. Chesterton
Q: What name is given to the sensitive flesh at the base of one’s fingernails? A: Quick
Q: Latin for ‘put away the flesh’, what name is given to ‘a feast’ or ‘fair’? A: Carnival
Q: As in the name of the Spanish clothing retailer, for what do the initials H & M stand? A: Hennes and Mauritz
Q: Which US fashion retailers have the forenames David and Ezra? A: Abercrombie and Fitch
Q: The Peasants Revolt took place during the reign of which English King? A: Richard II
Q: Who was the only canonised King of France? (name and number) A: Louis IX
Q: Mary Robinson and Frances Villiers were mistresses of which 19th century King? A: George IV
Q: Dushanbe is the capital city of which former Soviet republic? A: Tajikistan
Q: Which work by Charles Dickens opens with the line “Now, what I want is facts”? A: Hard Times
Q: Which haemorrhagic fever virus is named after a city in Hessen, Germany? A: Marburg Virus
Q: Which 2010 Disney movie features the villainous Mother Gothel? A: Tangled
Q: Who is Jessica’s father in Shakespeare’s The Merchant of Venice? A: Shylock
Q: John James Audubon became famous for painting ….what? A: Birds
Q: Which Biblical city’s walls fell to the blast of trumpets? A: Jericho
Q: Charlotte Beyser Bartholdi was the model for which statue? A: Statue of Liberty
Q: Which famous fair held annually for 700 years was first held at Smithfield in 1133? A: Bartholomew Fair
Q: Which king’s four sons together with their mother rebelled against him in France in 1173? A: Henry II
Q: What was won by Louisa Johnson in December 2015? A: The X Factor
Q: Which BBC three-part drama was set in Pepys Rd, South London? A: Capital
Q: Which Sparkhill Community leader drives a yellow Mercedes? A: Citizen Khan
Q: Which part of the eye is the sclera? A: White
Q: Which artistic term is used for the balance of light and shade? A: Chiaroscuro
Q: Which sculptor produced the 1934/35 work, Ecce Homo? A: Jacob Epstein
Q: Which nautical measurement is 240 yards? A: Cable
Q: Which weight system is used for precious metals? A: Troy
Q: Which African country is entirely surrounded by Senegal? A: Gambia
Q: In which country is around 85% of the Thar desert? A: India
Q: Which street is Dublin’s main shopping centre? A: O’Connell St
Q: Shagreen is leather made from the skin of which creatures? A: Sharks
Q: What was Glenn Miller’s Pennsylvania hotel telephone number? A: 6-5000
Q: What is known as India’s teardrop? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Which kind of entertainer often makes his entrance to Julius Fucik’s Opus 68 March? A: A Clown
Q: A Gibson cocktail is gin and dry Vermouth garnished with …..what? A: An Onion
Q: Which inert gas is used to fill modern incandescent light bulbs? A: Argon
Q: From which mineral is radium obtained? A: Pitchblende
Q: What is a baby cod called? A: Codling
Q: What French term is used for a novel based on real people but under disguised names? A: Roman a Clef
Q: What word is used for the final unwinding of a complicated plot? A: Denouement
Q: What do we call a mournful poem often lamenting death? A: Elegy
Q: In which film does Iris Henderson search for Miss Froy on a train in fictional Bandrika? A: The Lady Vanishes
Q: Rose Sayer falls for Charlie Allnut in which movie? A: The African Queen
Q: What was called the Hakenkreuz by the Nazis? A: The Swastika
Q: Named for its writer, what song was the Nazi anthem? A: The Horst-Wessel
Q: Who was Hitler’s Minister for Public Enlightenment and Propaganda? A: Joseph Goebbels
Q: Which sport do the French call ‘ball-trap’? A: Clay Pigeon Shooting
Q: The adjective lupine refers to which animal? A: Wolf
Q: Which novel by Felix Salten was made into a movie by Walt Disney in 1942? A: Bambi
Q: Tory MP Nadine Dorries upset Party bosses by appearing on which TV show in 2012? A: I’m A Celebrity Get Me Out Of
Q: Purple Granadilla is another name for which fruit? A: Passion Fruit
Q: In which country is the resort of Marmaris? A: Turkey
Q: Benidorm is on which of the Spanish Costas? A: Costa Blanca
Q: What was originally called the Pluto Platter? A: Frisbee
Q: Which board game is set at Tudor Close? A: Cluedo
Q: The sinking of the armoured cruiser Maine in 1898 led to which conflict? A: Spanish-American War
Q: What common name was given to the Arab/Israeli clash of 1973? A: Yom Kippur War
Q: Bambi, Cash, Sick and Summer Holiday were episodes of which comedy series? A: The Young Ones
Q: The Egyptian species of which small mammal is also called the ichneumon? A: Mongoose
Q: The guanaco belongs to which animal family? A: Camel
Q: The babirusa is a wild variety of which domesticated animal? A: Pig
Q: Which European capital stands on the river Aar? A: Berne
Q: Mexico and which country are separated by the Yucatan Channel? A: Cuba
Q: What is the capital of the islands of Madeira? A: Funchal
Q: Which infamous club was founded in San Bernardino, California in 1948? A: Hell’s Angels
Q: Which major British newspaper closed down for nearly a year in 1978? A: The Times
Q: Distaff is the female side or branch of a family – what is the male? A: Spear
Q: The band Carl and the Passions changed its name to what? A: The Beachboys
Q: Which game starts with a squidge off? A: Tiddlywinks
Q: The Slag Brothers were contestants in what? A: The Wacky Races
Q: Another Suitcase In Another Hall is a song from which musical? A: Evita
Q: What was the signature tune of Duke Ellington’s band? A: Take The A Train
Q: What is the army equivalent of the Royal Navy’s Commodore? A: Brigadier
Q: What are the legislative assemblies of Jersey, Guernsey and Alderney called? A: The States
Q: Whose partners include Crazylegs Crane and the Aardvark? A: Pink Panther
Q: The environmental phobia ‘ombrophobia’ is an unnatural fear of what? A: Rain
Q: Which star constellation is ‘the herdsman’? A: Bootes
Q: Which metallic element is extracted from the ore calamine? A: Zinc
Q: Which star constellation is ‘the charioteer’? A: Auriga
Q: On which river does Middlesbrough stand? A: Tees
Q: Pygmalion was the legendary king of which island? A: Cyprus
Q: What was the first name of John Lennon’s first wife, who died last April? A: CYNTHIA
Q: On which children's television show did Ant and Dec first meet? A: BYKER GROVE
Q: With which brand name do you associate the synthetic substance polytetrafluoroethylene? A: TEFLON
Q: What is the married surname of Lady Sarah, daughter of Princess Margaret? A: CHATTO
Q: What name is given to Toyota’s luxury vehicle division? A: LEXUS
Q: What does scotopic vision help one to do? A: SEE BETTER IN THE DARK
Q: Which country’s largest cities (by population) include Klagenfurt (no.6) and Villach (no.7)? A: AUSTRIA
Q: Which German city in the western part of the Ruhr Area has the world’s biggest inland harbour? A: DUISBURG
Q: Who won the 1995 Best Actress Oscar for her part in ‘Dead Man Walking’? A: SUSAN SARANDON
Q: In December, which politician apologised for racist remarks he made in the 80s? A: OLIVER LETWIN
Q: In ‘Bleak House’, what is the surname of both parties in the never-ending legal case? A: JARNDYCE
Q: Pearl Harbour is in which present-day US state? A: HAWAII
Q: In what country were the terracotta warriors discovered in 1974? A: CHINA
Q: Which group had two sets of parentheses either side of ‘Fight for Your Right’ in 1987? A: BEASTIE BOYS
Q: Who had a 2007 Top 20 hit with ‘You Don't Know What Love Is (You Just Do As You're Told)’? A: WHITE STRIPES
Q: Who was born Amy Lyon near Neston in Cheshire, in May 1765? A: EMMA, LADY HAMILTON
Q: Who played the Wicked Witch of the West in ‘The Wizard of Oz’ (1939)? A: MARGARET HAMILTON
Q: In the paso doble, the female role is generally meant to represent what? A: MATADOR’S CAPE
Q: The bossa nova is a type of what more generic dance? A: SAMBA
Q: With what dance do you associate the man born Ernest Evans in South Carolina in 1941? A: The TWIST
Q: With what catchphrase would you associate the village of Llanddewi Brefi? A: I’M THE ONLY GAY IN THE VILLAGE
Q: Which US actor played him in the 2011 film, ‘Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows’? A: ROBERT DOWNEY JUNIOR
Q: What was ‘the speckled band’, in the short story of that name? A: A SNAKE
Q: The first what was drilled by a group of Monks in a certain French province in 1126? A: ARTESIAN WELL
Q: AKA Beestings, the first milk secreted by a mammal, usually just before giving birth, is known as what? A: COLOSTRUM
Q: Who was the virtual dictator who ruled Portugal for 36 years, from 1932 to 1968? A: Antonio SALAZAR
Q: JM. Who became the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer in September 2015? A: JOHN McDONNELL
Q: SG. What was the name of the huge seaplane owned by Howard Hughes? A: SPRUCE GOOSE
Q: RHB. The Coast-to-Coast walk finishes at which coastal village? A: ROBIN HOOD’S BAY
Q: YM. ‘Life of Pi’ won the Man Booker Prize for Fiction in 2002. Who is the author? A: YANN MARTEL
Q: What is the Latin for ‘let the buyer beware’? A: CAVEAT EMPTOR
Q: Tuppence and Tommy are fictional detectives, recurring characters in whose books? A: AGATHA CHRISTIE’S
Q: What is the surname of Ceri, the Welsh fly-half who plays for Exeter Chiefs? A: SWEENEY
Q: In ‘Othello’, to whom is Emilia, Desdemona’s maidservant, married? A: IAGO
Q: ‘Monopoly’. A player currently on Mayfair throws a five – taking him/her to where? A: WHITECHAPEL ROAD
Q: Which former British athlete was married to swimmer Sharron Davies from 1994-2000? A: DEREK REDMOND
Q: Played by Aaron Paul, who was Walter White’s co-protagonist in ‘Breaking Bad’? A: JESSE PINKMAN
Q: What is the first name of Neil Kinnock’s wife? A: GLENYS
Q: Living from 1933 to 2006, who is/was often referred to as the ‘Godfather of Soul’? A: JAMES BROWN
Q: What was the name of the little people in ‘The Wizard of Oz’? A: MUNCHKINS
Q: What is the symbol for the chemical element Californium? A: Cf
Q: What is the young of a kangaroo called? A: a JOEY
Q: Cpt. Sweatpants is an occasional minor character in which US sitcom? A: The BIG BANG THEORY
Q: The 1934 film ‘Wild Boy’ was based on whose life story? A: MICK THE MILLER
Q: In a nursery rhyme, who was chastised for sitting among the cinders? A: Little POLLY FLINDERS
Q: Sung about by crooners such as Crosby and Sinatra, who was ‘sweet as apple cider’? A: IDA
Q: What simple, but useful, device did Walter Hunt invent in 1849? A: SAFETY PIN
Q: The HX-20 is generally regarded as the world’s first laptop computer. Who made it? A: EPSON
Q: During the 20th century, Wardour St. became the centre of what? A: British FILM INDUSTRY
Q: What major thoroughfare was known as Tyburn Road until the 18th century? A: OXFORD STREET
Q: What is the county town of Essex? A: CHELMSFORD
Q: Who was the sporting superstar who was married to Tatum O’Neal from 1986 to 1994? A: JOHN McENROE
Q: Which book by Gaston Leroux tells the story of a young composer named Eric? A: Phantom of the Opera
Q: Tintagel in Cornwall is considered one of the main possible sites for which court? A: Camelot
Q: Which thoroughfare connects with Broadway at Times Square in New York? A: 42nd Street
Q: Abyssinian, British Longhair and German Rex are all breeds of what? A: Cats
Q: Who led the charge up San Juan Hill in Cuba in 1898? A: Teddy Roosevelt
Q: At which battle did the bloody action of “Pickett’s Charge” take place? A: Gettysburg
Q: On a standard European roulette wheel what colour is the zero? A: Green
Q: In which gambling game is double six known as boxcars? A: Craps
Q: What is the highest value of a hand in baccarat? A: Nine
Q: In which capital city are Luxembourg gardens? A: Paris
Q: In which state is the geographical centre of the USA? A: South Dakota
Q: Which pair of time travellers declared Joan of Arc was the wife of Noah? A: Bill and Ted
Q: Which title character was again involved in time travel last year after beginning in 1984? A: The Terminator
Q: What are the smallest blood vessels of a body called? A: Capillary
Q: According to mythology which ship rolled off its timbers killing Jason? A: Argo
Q: Who became leader of the Indian National Congress in 1912? A: Gandhi
Q: What term is usually used for a small English village without a church? A: Hamlet
Q: Which general was nicknamed Old Blood and Guts? A: Patton
Q: In which novel does the valet Passerpartout appear? A: Around the World in 80 days
Q: Which group from Liverpool had a hit single with “Hello Little Girl”? A: The Fourmost
Q: What was the second UK Number 1 from Gerry and the Pacemakers? A: I like it
Q: Which of Brian Epstein’s recording artists was born William Howard Ashton? A: Billy J. Kramer
Q: What was the name of Bernie Winters’ St. Bernard? A: Schnorbitz
Q: What was the name of the dog in Hart to Hart? A: Freeway
Q: Which Moroccan port lies on the Western entrance to the Straits of Gibraltar? A: Tangier
Q: Due to the number of its population which country is known as the “Giant of Africa”? A: Nigeria
Q: Madagascar declared its independence from which country in 1960? A: France
Q: What did Richard Sharpe capture at the battle of Talavera? A: French Eagle
Q: In which conflict are the Starbuck novels set? A: American Civil War
Q: “Harlequin” is the first book in a series about a quest for which item? A: Holy Grail
Q: Which car company currently sponsors the Kennington Oval? A: Kia
Q: Which singing legend died in a plane crash in Montana in 1967? A: Otis Redding
Q: Which military legend died in Germany in December 1945 as the result of a car crash? A: Patton
Q: Which railroad legend died in Mississippi as the result of a train crash in 1900? A: Casey Jones
Q: In which pantomime do the broker’s men traditionally appear? A: Cinderella
Q: Which traditional pantomime is based on a work first published in 1719? A: Robinson Crusoe
Q: In which pantomime does Robin Hood normally appear? A: Babes in the Wood
Q: Which boat made a famous crossing from Peru to Polynesia in 1947? A: Kon Tiki
Q: Which film featured the villainous Blue Meanies? A: Yellow Submarine
Q: Bridgetown is the capital of which island? A: Barbados
Q: What is the European term of a golf score known in the USA as a double eagle? A: Albatross
Q: Which TV series was about a quartet of students at Scumbag college? A: The Young Ones
Q: Boston lies in which state of the USA? A: Massachusetts
Q: Geronimo was a leader of which Native American tribe? A: Apache
Q: What did bluesman B.B. King name his first guitar? A: Lucille
Q: What was the original name of Leicester City F.C.? A: Leicester Fosse
Q: In “Open All hours” which actress delivered the milk? A: Barbara Flynn
Q: In “Porridge” which warder was played by Brian Wilde? A: Mr. Barraclough
Q: Which character was Charlie Farley’s partner in” the Two Ronnies”? A: Piggy Malone
Q: Which Shakespeare play has the subtitle ‘What you will’? A: Twelfth Night
Q: Edinburgh university lecturer Joseph Bell was the inspiration for which character? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What information did members of the Waffen S.S. have tattooed on their arms? A: Blood group
Q: What was the Monkees’ second UK hit single? A: Last train to Clarksville
Q: In 1957 who took “Last train to San Fernando” into the UK charts? A: Johnny Duncan
Q: Which is the smallest true thrush normally seen in Britain? A: Redwing
Q: What is the correct term for a female bear? A: Sow
Q: Which is the largest type of kangaroo? A: Red Kangaroo
Q: Who was the first sportsman to be British Sports Personality of the Year twice? A: Henry Cooper
Q: In the legends of Robin Hood what was the profession of Mutch’s father? A: Miller
Q: The Cape of Storms was the original name of which cape? A: Cape of Good Hope
Q: In which film does Will Smith play a superhero with a drink problem? A: Hancock
Q: In 2014 and 2015 for which Formula 1 team did Felipe Massa drive? A: Williams
Q: Who wrote the Savoy Operas? A: Gilbert and Sullivan
Q: Who played the title role in “the Black Pirate”? A: Douglas Fairbanks
Q: If travelling at 30m.p.h. in a car what is the overall stopping distance in feet? A: 75
Q: What used to clean a big big carpet for less than half a crown? A: 1001
Q: The Stamp Act of the 18th. Century imposed taxes on which area under British rule? A: Americas
Q: Which acts affected the ownership of almost 11,000 square miles of common land? A: Enclosure Acts
Q: Who was the first U.S. President to wear a full beard in office? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which highly poisonous substance was once known as prussic acid? A: Hydrogen Cyanide
Q: Under what name was nitric acid known to alchemists? A: Aqua Fortis
Q: In which year was Hong Kong handed back to the Chinese government? A: 1997
Q: At which institute was Dolly the Sheep cloned? A: Roslin Institute
Q: Which was the first film directed by Tim Burton to star Johnny Depp? A: Edward Scissorhands
Q: Which darts player was the first to finish a 501 leg in 9 darts live on British TV? A: John Lowe
Q: Which was the first film directed by Alfred Hitchcock to star James Stewart? A: Rope
Q: “Lovers of the stinking Rose” have a fondness for which food? A: Garlic
Q: The motto of which company is “Impossible is nothing”? A: Adidas
Q: The ancient ritual of bull-leaping took place on which Mediterranean island? A: Crete
Q: The Lake District is located in which English county? A: Cumbria
Q: On which TV show did Claude Littner replace Nick Hewer? A: The Apprentice
Q: Which Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale features 20 mattresses? A: Princess and the Pea
Q: Ringed, Golden and Kentish are all species of which bird? A: Plover
Q: Which summer visitor to Britain has varieties including Marsh, Grasshopper and Willow? A: Warbler
Q: The SYRIZA party won the general election in which European country? A: Greece
Q: Which organisation was depicted as a carthorse in the cartoons of David Low? A: T.U.C
Q: What astronomical feature is sometimes called ‘The Way of St John’? A: Milky Way
Q: On what TV series was Virgil the pilot of two and Alan the pilot of three? A: Thunderbirds
Q: On a French restaurant menu, what part of an animal is ‘cervelle’? A: Brain
Q: Which state of the USA has land borders with Georgia and Alabama? A: Florida
Q: Who was the mother of the English kings Richard I and John? A: Eleanor of Aquitaine
Q: In which English county is Buckfast Abbey, famed for its tonic wine? A: Devon
Q: Which Disney character’s sidekick was Timothy Q Mouse? A: Dumbo
Q: Whose sayings are collected in the hypothetical Q document or Q source? A: Jesus
Q: What was the Roman name for York? A: Eboracum
Q: In Yorkshire dialect, which animal is known as an attercop? A: Spider
Q: Which 12 century Cistercian abbey stood just outside Ripon? A: Fountains Abbey
Q: What is the occupation of famous Hawaii resident ‘Dog’ Chapman and his wife Beth? A: Bounty Hunters
Q: Which musical instrument was based on the Portuguese ‘draguinha’? A: Ukulele
Q: What was the title of the only UK number 1 hit single by B Bumble and the Stingers? A: Nut Rocker
Q: What is the surname of the character who sings ‘Boy For Sale’ in the musical ‘Oliver!’? A: Bumble
Q: Which country is bordered by Italy, Austria, Croatia and Hungary? A: Slovenia
Q: Which town stands at the confluence of the rivers Thames and Kennet? A: Reading
Q: In 1972 John Hicks became the first Briton to win which of the Nobel Prizes? A: Economics
Q: Which was the first European country to be led by a president? A: France
Q: Who was the first English king given the title Defender of the Faith? A: Henry VIII
Q: Which aristocratic title derives its name from the Anglo-Saxon term for ‘warrior’? A: Earl
Q: Which musical instrument represents the duck? A: Oboe
Q: Which of his Peter’s relatives is represented by the bassoon? A: Grandfather
Q: On which Scottish island group is the Ring of Brogar stone circle? A: Orkneys
Q: Coeliac disease is an autoimmune disorder caused by a reaction to which substance? A: Gluten
Q: Who is missing from this musical quintet: Keeble, Kemp, Norman, Kemp and…? A: Hadley
Q: Which ancient organisation controls the grazing rights in the New Forest? A: Court of Verderers
Q: Which capital city was previously known as Edo or Yedo? A: Tokyo
Q: What was the name of the oil tanker wrecked off the Isles of Scilly in 1967? A: Torrey Canyon
Q: Which musical takes place in the Kit Kat Club? A: Cabaret
Q: Homo naledi, an early form of human life, was discovered in which African country? A: South Africa
Q: Which ’60s film gave Disney their first ‘Best Picture’ Oscar nomination? A: Mary Poppins
Q: What was the name of the ‘Lucky Rabbit’ in an early Disney animated film? A: Oswald
Q: In which series did Jeff Stewart play the character Reg Hollis for over 24 years? A: The Bill
Q: Which UK TV series starring Olivia Colman was remade as Gracepoint in the USA? A: Broadchurch
Q: Horse Racing. Traditionally the flat racing season begins and ends at which racecourse? A: Doncaster
Q: The Bible, Which psalm begins “The Lord is my shepherd …”? A: 23
Q: Which village do Rupert Bear and his companions inhabit? A: Nutwood
Q: Which 1746 battle was the last fought on British soil? A: Culloden
Q: Which 1715 battle was the last fought on English soil? A: Preston
Q: Who, at Dettingen in 1743, became the last King of England to lead his troops in battle? A: George II
Q: After which extensive region of Europe is a rare but distinct local species of lynx named? A: Iberia
Q: If a player ruffs in a trick-taking card game, what kind of card will have been played? A: Trump
Q: Which card game, Spanish for basket, was devised in Uruguay in 1939? A: Canasta
Q: Of which aluminium oxide mineral are ruby and sapphire among the coloured varieties? A: Corundum
Q: After which famous Venetian is Venice’s international airport named? A: Marco Polo
Q: Which Venetian cocktail of peach purée and prosecco is named after a local artist? A: Bellini
Q: Which Italian dish, translating roughly as fried, resembles an omelette or crustless quiche? A: Frittata
Q: In a Scotch Woodcock, scrambled egg is spread with a paste made from which fish? A: Anchovy
Q: At which London Underground station is there a Blue Plaque honouring Willie Rushton? A: Mornington Crescent
Q: To which US state is the Green Mountains section of the Appalachians confined? A: Vermont
Q: Which confection approximates to what in Scotland is called tablet? A: Fudge
Q: The title of which musical was inspired by and describes a Marc Chagall painting? A: Fiddler On The Roof
Q: What term describes a sheepdog trial event in which each competitor controls two dogs? A: Brace
Q: Which character in The Archers kept a Staffordshire bull terrier called Captain? A: Jack Woolley
Q: Which Asian island is shared between three separate sovereign states? A: Borneo
Q: Which TV character referred to his wife as ’Er Indoors? A: Arthur Daley
Q: In a 1965 to 1975 sitcom, which actress’s character was mocked as a Silly Moo? A: Dandy Nichols
Q: What is the term for the strong magnetism associated with cobalt, nickel and iron? A: Ferromagnetism
Q: Who discovered electromagnetic induction, so facilitating the transformer and dynamo? A: Michael Faraday
Q: In which city is the Pitt Rivers Museum? A: Oxford
Q: In what field did Ernö Goldfinger, inspiration for the title Goldfinger, achieve eminence? A: Architecture
Q: Which James Bond title began life as an advertising slogan? A: Diamonds are Forever
Q: Which James Bond film title derives from Non Sufficit Orbis, motto of Philip II of Spain? A: The World Is Not Enough
Q: What post does Welshman Mark Sampson hold in English football? A: England Women’s
Q: Which cathedral is known locally as “The Ship of the Fens”? A: Ely
Q: Which cathedral’s spires have earned it the name, “The Ladies of the Vale”? A: Lichfield
Q: To which proverbially ruthless figure, then still a child, does Richard III compare himself? A: Niccolò Machiavelli
Q: Which King of England died after falling from his horse, Sorrel? A: William III
Q: Which feature on the River Thames marks the upper limit of its tidal waters? A: Teddington Lock
Q: In ecology, which Q is a rectangular frame laid on the ground to define an area for study? A: Quadrat
Q: What is the extramarital dating website whose subscription list was hacked in July 2015? A: Ashley Madison
Q: What is the term in India for one who drives and keeps a working elephant? A: Mahout
Q: … and in Canada for one who drives a dog sled? A: Musher
Q: Which region’s name is Persian for Five Waters, alluding to five tributaries of the Indus? A: Punjab
Q: Which Northern English city incorporates five river valleys and by tradition seven hills? A: Sheffield
Q: Which prizes does Harvard award annually for trivial achievements in scientific research? A: Ig Nobel Prizes
Q: In cricket, if a batsman had been victim to a Mankad, as what would his dismissal be recorded? A: Run out
Q: Of which 1969 film was 15-year-old Billy Casper the central character? A: Kes
Q: Which real-life baseball manager and former player was the central character of the 2011 film Moneyball? A: Billy Beane
Q: What name specifically describes an inhabitant of Galway? A: Galwegian
Q: Which language gave English the word kahuna as in “the big kahuna”? A: Hawaiian
Q: Which metallic element is the essential additive to steel when making stainless steel? A: Chromium
Q: The Appalachian and Hammered are two types of which traditional musical instrument? A: Dulcimer
Q: In which field was Marie Stopes (1880-1958) a pioneer? A: BIRTH CONTROL
Q: “It’s the way I tell ‘em!” was one of the catchphrases of which comedian? A: FRANK CARSON
Q: What do the Argentinians call what we call the Falkland Islands? A: Las MALVINAS
Q: What is the most common alternative name for the gnu? A: WILDEBEESTE
Q: What is the maximum number of players in a rounders team? A: NINE
Q: In card games such as Whist and Bridge, what word is used for just one card in a suit? A: SINGLETON
Q: Both of Art Garfunkel’s no. 1 UK hits contained which word in the title? A: EYES
Q: What word was common to three of the titles of the Beatles’ first six Top 20 hits? A: LOVE
Q: At which Park did Yeats feel moved to write a poem about the wild swans? A: COOLE
Q: Who wrote the 1969 novel ‘The Godfather’? A: MARIO PUZO
Q: In ‘Treasure Island’, what is the name of Long John Silver’s parrot? A: CAPTAIN FLINT
Q: Who plays the title character in the 2013 remake of ‘The Great Gatsby’? A: LEONARDO DICAPRIO
Q: What was the highest-grossing film worldwide of 2013? A: IRON MAN 3
Q: Who directed the 1942 film, ‘Casablanca’? A: MICHAEL CURTIZ
Q: ‘Please, Sir’ (1968-72) was set in which fictional school? A: FENN STREET
Q: At which racecourse is the Irish Grand National run? A: FAIRYHOUSE
Q: Which English Premiership rugby club play home games at The Twickenham Stoop? A: HARLEQUINS
Q: Which phrase meaning ‘very drunk’ has its origins in nautical terminology? A: THREE SHEETS TO THE WIND
Q: What is the third sign of the zodiac? A: GEMINI
Q: In 1979, where in Pennsylvania was there a partial nuclear meltdown accident? A: THREE MILE ISLAND
Q: What element is third in the periodic table of the elements, after hydrogen and helium? A: LITHIUM
Q: In 1973, Britain joined at the same time as Ireland and which other country? A: DENMARK
Q: In which year was the Maastricht treaty signed? (It came into force a year later.) A: 1992
Q: Who composed ‘Finlandia’ (1899) and the ‘Karelia Suite’ (c 1893)? A: JEAN SIBELIUS
Q: Bedrich was the first name of which Czech composer, 1824 to 1884? A: SMETANA
Q: In which month did Browning long to be in England, in ‘Home Thoughts from Abroad’? A: APRIL
Q: In the name of the unpleasant bacterium c. difficile, what does the ‘C’ represent? A: CLOSTRIDIUM
Q: What colour are viagra tablets (apparently)? A: BLUE
Q: The character Robinson Crusoe was almost certainly based on whom? A: ALEXANDER SELKIRK
Q: Which ten-letter word means ‘cave dweller’? A: TROGLODYTE
Q: Which scientist was offered the Presidency of Israel? A: ALBERT EINSTEIN
Q: Somaliland and Eritrea were both colonized by which European nation? A: ITALY
Q: Lemurs in the wild are unique to which country? A: MADAGASCAR
Q: To within one year either way, when was the last judicial hanging in Great Britain? A: 1964
Q: The coypu, or nutria, was originally native to which continent? A: SOUTH AMERICA
Q: Sometimes called a beaver dam, what is the more customary name for a beaver’s home? A: LODGE
Q: Music. In which country is the song ‘Dominick the Donkey’ set? A: ITALY
Q: In the ‘Star Wars’ films, what sort of creature is Chewbacca? A: WOOKIEE
Q: Who starred as Vera Drake on TV, and as Professor Umbridge in the Harry Potter films? A: IMELDA STAUNTON
Q: In which decade of the 20th C. did the first Oscar ceremonies take place? A: 1920s
Q: What was Harry Hill’s occupation before he moved into comedy? A: DOCTOR
Q: Which of the seven actors who have played James Bond once polished coffins for a job? A: SEAN CONNERY
Q: Born in 1955, who wrote ‘The Firm’, ‘The Client’ and ‘The Chamber’? A: JOHN GRISHAM
Q: In 1520, what was the name given to the meeting held between Henry VIII and Francis I? A: The FIELD OF THE CLOTH OF
Q: By what title was British Prime Minister Robert Banks Jenkinson otherwise known? A: Earl of LIVERPOOL
Q: In which European country does/did the late Norman Wisdom have a huge cult status? A: ALBANIA
Q: What is missing from this list of ingredients for Hollandaise sauce? Egg yolks, butter, A: LEMON JUICE
Q: What was the first name of Dick Van Dyke’s Cockney character in ‘Mary Poppins’? A: BERT
Q: What is the capital of Malawi? A: LILONGWE
Q: The drink known as ‘Ice pick’ consists of cold tea, lemon juice, and which spirit? A: VODKA
Q: In the late 70s, which Cockney played the male lead in the tv programme ‘Yus, My Dear’? A: ARTHUR MULLARD
Q: What is the capital city of Gambia? A: BANJUL
Q: What is the name for the Parliament on the Isle of Man? A: The TYNWALD
Q: Who was the first poet to be buried in Poet’s Corner, Westminster Abbey? A: Chaucer
Q: Which fish is included in the ingredients of Worcestershire Sauce? A: Anchovies
Q: An ossuary is a room or container in which what are kept? A: Bones
Q: Blueberry Jelly Beans were created for which US president? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What is the name of the Creole stew made with okra, rice, shellfish or pork? A: Gumbo
Q: What is the German bratwurst? A: Sausage
Q: What word from German means ‘delighting in another’s misfortune’? A: Schadenfreude
Q: The Yiddish word ‘schmuck’ meaning a contemptible person, literally means what? A: Penis
Q: What was the nickname of Stephen Lewis’s character in Last of the Summer Wine? A: Smiler
Q: Pioneer 10 in 1983 was the first man-made object to do what? A: Leave the Solar System
Q: Salyut in 1971 was the first ……what? A: Space Station
Q: Who left little Nancy in the toilets at the Plough Inn? A: David Cameron
Q: Who bowed out with Blackstar? A: David Bowie
Q: What is the popular name for Mozart’s Divertimento in G for Strings? A: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik
Q: Music of the Night is a song from which stage musical? A: Phantom of the Opera
Q: The tune Duelling Banjos features in which 1972 film? A: Deliverance
Q: Who was Britain’s Defence Secretary at the time of the Falklands War? A: John Nott
Q: Where did German teenager Matthias Rust land his small plane in 1987? A: Red Square
Q: Which 1976 Derek Jarman film was dialogued entirely in Latin? A: Sebastiane
Q: Who designed the Cenotaph in London? A: Lutyens
Q: Cerulean is a shade of which colour? A: Blue
Q: Which crooner’s only UK No.1 was Memories Are Made Of This in 1956? A: Dean Martin
Q: In Indian cuisine what is ‘murgh’? A: Chicken
Q: What was the name of Sonny Crockett’s pet alligator in Miami Vice? A: Elvis
Q: Who became the Royal Ballet’s youngest principle dancer in 1989 at the age of 20? A: Darcey Bussell
Q: Which Caribbean island group has a reptilian name? A: Cayman Islands
Q: Who were the ascetics who lived on the top of pillars or columns? A: Stylites
Q: Oneiromancy is the divination of what? A: Dreams
Q: Which Greek philosopher lived in a tub? A: Diogenes
Q: Mr Elton, a vicar, is a character in which Jane Austen novel? A: Emma
Q: Torch was the final code name for the 1942 Allied landings ……..where? A: North Africa
Q: In which conflict did the Battle of Pork Chop Hill take place? A: Korean War
Q: The RENFE is the railway system of which country? A: Spain
Q: The Gegs are an ethnic group from which European country? A: Albania
Q: In which country are the Harz mountains? A: Germany
Q: What is the capital of Azerbaijan? A: Baku
Q: Which international football team are known as ‘The Albiceleste’? A: Argentina
Q: What is the name of the dragon that guards the treasure in The Hobbit? A: Smaug
Q: Dr Claw is the arch-enemy of which children’s cartoon title character? A: Inspector Gadget
Q: Benvolio is the cousin and friend of which Shakespearian hero? A: Romeo
Q: Which African country is regarded as the spiritual home of Rastafarianism? A: Ethiopia
Q: Someone feigning unconsciousness or death is said to be playing which animal? A: Possum
Q: The three types of chemical matter are – element, mixture and which other? A: Compound
Q: What is the SI Unit of Luminous Intensity? A: Candela
Q: Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses? A: Dorothy Parker
Q: Who has taken over from Sandi Toksvig as presenter of The News Quiz? A: Miles Jupp
Q: Which cry always opened the Billy Cotton Band Show? A: Wakey Wakey
Q: Who played the Chief Petty Officer in The Navy Lark? A: Jon Pertwee
Q: Which modern currency is derived from the old European coin the ‘thaler’? A: Dollar
Q: Before adopting the Euro which country’s currency was the markka? A: Finland
Q: On which peninsula are The Mumbles situated? A: Gower Peninsular
Q: In which national park are the Black Mountains? A: Brecon Beacons
Q: Which is the nearest town to Ben Nevis? A: Fort William
Q: Apart from the Bolshoi which is Russia’s other famous touring ballet company? A: Kirov
Q: Detective Jimmy Perez investigates in which BBC drama? A: Shetland
Q: Which English painter was the first President of the Royal Academy? A: Sir Joshua Reynolds
Q: Which opera did Verdi supposedly compose for the opening of the Suez Canal? A: Aida
Q: What was the name of his American mother? A: Jenny Jerome
Q: Upon which war did he report as a foreign correspondent for the Morning Post? A: Boer War
Q: Which hormone is called epinephrine in the USA? A: Adrenalin
Q: The protein fibrin aids which process in the blood? A: Clotting
Q: What was Elvis Presley’s first film – the only one in which he did not get top billing? A: Love Me Tender
Q: Who was the first British artist to top the US chart? A: Vera Lynn
Q: Which brewery produces Director’s Bitter? A: Courage
Q: What is added to Scotch to make a Whisky Mac? A: Ginger Wine
Q: In olden-day police parlance what were ‘darbies’? A: Handcuffs
Q: Which form of strangulation was for years the official method of execution in Spain? A: The Garotte
Q: Who sailed round the world in the yacht Lively Lady? A: Alec Rose
Q: To which Mediterranean island were UN peacekeepers sent in 1964? A: Cyprus
Q: Who played Monica Geller in Friends? A: Courtney Cox
Q: What is the collective noun for kangaroos? A: Mob
Q: In which European capital is Bromma Airport? A: Stockholm
Q: What is the collective noun for frogs? A: Army
Q: Which late rock singer was known as ‘The Electric Poet’? A: Jim Morrison
Q: Which American author created Tarzan Of The Apes? A: Edgar Rice Burroughs
Q: Which T Rex hit was called 'Bang A Gong' when it was released in the USA? A: Get It On
Q: Prince William adopted which title in 2011? A: Duke of Cambridge
Q: The Gay Gordons is commonly danced to which tune? A: Scotland The Brave
Q: In the USA unidentified women are usually assigned which name? A: Jane Doe
Q: Athlete Florence Griffith was given which nickname after her marriage in 1987? A: Flo-Jo
Q: Who was the second woman elected to the House of Commons? A: Nancy Astor
Q: Mary of Modena was the second wife of which of our monarchs? A: James II
Q: In 1932 which record breaker was the second person to fly the Atlantic solo? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: Which dictator moved into the Casa Rosada in June 1946? A: Juan Peron
Q: Pope Gregory XI was the last Pope to live in which French city? A: Avignon
Q: Adrian IV, the first English Pope, was educated in which city named after the first English martyr? A: St Albans
Q: Alexander Graham Bell discovered that which type of cabling cancels out electrical interference? A: Twisted Pair
Q: What was Reginald Perrin's middle name? A: Iolanthe
Q: What sort of sea creature is a Medusa? A: Jellyfish
Q: The name of which Titan was given to a large flightless bird of South America? A: Rhea
Q: Which part of the body is named after the goddess of the rainbow? A: Iris
Q: Named after Mrs Gamp, a character in a Dickens' novel, what is a Gamp? A: Umbrella
Q: Which Spanish queen sponsored the expeditions of Christopher Columbus? A: Isabella
Q: Which meal is regarded as the Spanish national dish, although it is more specific to Valencia? A: Paella
Q: What was Esther and Abi Ofarim's only number one single in Britain? A: Cinderella Rockefella
Q: Elizabeth Taylor, Farrah Fawcett and Cheryl Ladd all advertised which brand of shampoo? A: Wella
Q: Which disease, now known to be a virus, was first identified in Germany in 1814? A: Rubella
Q: The Gregorian Calendar replaced which earlier calendar in western Europe? A: Julian
Q: In 1910 Leo Tolstoy died in what type of building? A: Railway Station
Q: In 1812 who was shot while walking through the lobby of the House of Commons? A: Spencer Perceval
Q: The Sequoia trees of the Sierra Nevada are better known as what? A: Redwoods
Q: When explaining the Doppler Effect which suffix follows the words 'Red' and 'Blue'? A: Shif
Q: Who played Catherine of Aragon in 'The Six Wives of Henry VIII' AND Queen Victoria in 'Edward VII'? A: Annette Crosby
Q: Kate Philips played which wife of Henry VIII in 'Wolf Hall'? A: Jane Seymour
Q: Which commercial television company had its studios at Teddington? A: Thames
Q: What does the Morrison's supermarket chain call its delicatessen counters? A: Market Street
Q: Which French port has namesakes in both Derby and Nottingham? A: Dunkirk
Q: The taste of which Chinese beer reminds you that its city of origin was a German concession? A: Tsingtao
Q: In Urbana Illinois on the 12th January 1992 Mr Langley taught a HAL 9000 computer which song? A: Daisy
Q: Which liqueur keeps Aunt Mary awake? A: Tia Maria
Q: Which brand of cream cheese should spread brotherly love? A: Philadelphia
Q: Played by Patrick Newell, who was John Steed and Tara King's boss in The Avengers? A: Mother
Q: Buddy Holly died in which month of 1959? A: February
Q: Who published a regular newspaper column from 1936 onwards? A: Eleanor Roosevelt
Q: Which industrialist born in Wirksworth in 1803 opened Matlock Hydro in 1853? A: John Smedley
Q: Born in Denby in 1646, who was the first Astronomer Royal? A: John Flamsteed
Q: Christians pilgrims to which Spanish city returned wearing a scallop shell in their hat bands? A: Santiago de Compostela
Q: Until recent times Muslim men returned from the Haj wearing turbans of which colour? A: Green
Q: FIFA's annual award for most beautiful goal is named after which Real Madrid player? A: Ferenc Puskas
Q: In 1999 FIFA declared which Dutchman to have been Coach Of The Century? A: Rinus Michels
Q: His 1965 recording of 'A Hard Day's Night' was a parody of which actor? A: Laurence Olivier
Q: Sellers described which London suburb as 'the gateway to the south'? A: Balham
Q: What type of port can be found at Pegwell Bay in Kent and at Ryde on the Isle of Wight? A: Hoverport
Q: What is the nickname of Football Premiership club Bournemouth? A: The Cherries
Q: Wakefield, Morley and Rothwell in Yorkshire are the three corners of which triangle? A: Rhubarb
Q: Winston Smith spends most of 1984 trying to learn the lines to which song? A: Oranges and Lemons
Q: What is the Kiwi Fruit commonly called in New Zealand? A: Chinese Gooseberry
Q: What is the name of actress Gwyneth Paltrow's oldest child? A: Apple
Q: What is the oldest railway station in Liverpool? A: Lime Street
Q: If you walked into the party like you were walking onto a yacht, what colour was your scarf? A: Apricot
Q: If satsumas were Japanese and mandarins were Chinese, which oranges were North African? A: Tangerines
Q: Bowie's video for 'Let's Dance' was recorded in which country? A: Australia
Q: Live Aid featured a video of Bowie duetting with which rock star? A: Mick Jagger
Q: Bowie's mother appeared with him in the innovative video for which song? A: Ashes To Ashes
Q: Any direct route from New York state to Wisconsin transects which Canadian province? A: Ontario
Q: In 1886 Franz von Soxhlet suggested that which wine process could be applied to milk? A: Pasteurisation
Q: 'Paro' was the largest moai erected on which island? A: Easter Island
Q: Deborah, Diana, Jessica and Pamela were some of the members of which family? A: Mitford
Q: The sisters of Dixon of Dock Green's Jack Warner performed as which characters? A: Gert and Daisy
Q: What colour is the directory to the National Gardens Scheme? A: Yellow
Q: Which TV series was set in a telephone exchange in Derby? A: The Hello Girls
Q: Hadfield near Glossop became the fictional town of Royston Vasey in which TV series? A: League of Gentlemen
Q: Which TV series about a women's football team was filmed in Ilkeston? A: Playing The Field
Q: Which actor, born in Hayfield in 1915, supplied the voices of the Mr Men on TV? A: Arthur Lowe
Q: What is the third word of the motto adopted by France in 1946? A: Fraternity
Q: In 2006 TV host Victoria Coren won half a million pounds playing which card game? A: Poker
Q: On 1st January 2014, which country became the 18th member of the Eurozone? A: Latvia
Q: Which sporting knight made an appearance on The Archers as part of Sport Relief 2014? A: Sir Bradley Wiggins
Q: Disney’s recent animated film Frozen is based on which tale by Hans Christian Andersen? A: The Snow Queen
Q: What nationality was author Gabriel García Márquez, who died on 17th April? A: Colombian
Q: Which UK national newspaper was awarded a share in a Pulitzer Prize in 2014? A: The Guardian
Q: Which knighted actor directed the 2011 superhero movie Thor? A: Kenneth Branagh
Q: Which member of England’s 1966 World Cup-winning side was born in Shirebrook? A: Ray Wilson
Q: Who was Joseph Stalin’s immediate successor as Premier of the Soviet Union? A: Georgy Malenkov
Q: Which island is known to the French as Aurigny? A: Alderney
Q: Helen Graham is the eponymous protagonist of which 19th-century novel? A: The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
Q: Which restored castle in West Sussex is the seat of the Duke of Norfolk? A: Arundel Castle
Q: Which Derbyshire railway station has the three-letter code CMF? A: Cromford
Q: The Brooklyn Bridge connects Brooklyn to which other New York borough? A: Manhattan
Q: The Vasco da Gama Bridge, the longest in Europe, spans which river? A: Tagus
Q: Which is the most southerly city to have hosted the Winter Olympics? A: Nagano
Q: Which is the most southerly of the Met Office’s shipping forecast areas? A: Trafalgar
Q: Spoken by Gloucester, what are the first seven words of Shakespeare’s Richard III? A: Now is the winter of our
Q: Which European language is spoken by a lusophone? A: Portuguese
Q: The song Diamonds are a Girl’s Best Friend comes from which musical? A: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
Q: The Malabar Coast is found in which country? A: India
Q: Mentioned in the title of Cole Porter’s Begin the Beguine, what is a beguine? A: A dance
Q: The motto of which university is “Learn and Live”? A: Open University
Q: Which fictional division of the Jersey police employed the services of Jim Bergerac? A: Le Bureau des Étrangers
Q: What is the name of the fictional island that provides the setting for Death in Paradise? A: Saint Marie
Q: Which island is the birthplace of Cristiano Ronaldo? A: Madeira
Q: Known as the Father of Western Medicine, Hippocrates was born on which Greek island? A: Cos
Q: What name is given to natives of the second-largest island of the Maltese archipelago? A: Gozitans
Q: The island of Foulness lies off the coast of which English county? A: Essex
Q: Which guest chose a stuffed Michael Palin as his luxury to take to the Island? A: John Cleese
Q: What title is currently held by Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger? A: Pope Emeritus
Q: Which bodily fluid is secreted by the parotid glands? A: Saliva
Q: A statue of which poet can be found at Hull Paragon Interchange railway station? A: Philip Larkin
Q: What trade name did Bayer give to the analgesic drug diamorphine? A: Heroin
Q: Which 1988 film was subtitled From the Files of Police Squad? A: The Naked Gun
Q: Which two former popes were canonised on 27th April 2014? A: John Paul II and John XXIII
Q: In which national park does the annual Green Man festival take place? A: Brecon Beacons
Q: Which city stages the annual Celtic Connections festival? A: Glasgow
Q: Used as launch mascots for BBC2 in 1964, what were Hullaballoo and Custard? A: Kangaroos
Q: If California is “The Golden State”, what is New York state? A: The Empire State
Q: What is the Turkish word for “lion”? A: Aslan
Q: By area, which is largest landlocked state in the USA? A: Montana
Q: Who was the first of the Mr Men characters to be created by Roger Hargreaves? A: Mr Tickle
Q: The name of which electrical safeguard is abbreviated “RCD”? A: Residual Current Device
Q: In which year did the USSR bring the dogs Belka and Strelka home safe from space? A: 1960
Q: Which Scandinavian (1546-1601) made observations of stellar and planetary positions? A: Tycho Brahe
Q: What is the traditional form of address when first meeting the Queen? A: Your Majesty
Q: As PM, William Lamb, aka Viscount Melbourne, mentored and served which monarch? A: Victoria
Q: Which London club did Holmes' brother Mycroft co-found? A: Diogenes
Q: What was Doctor Watson’s first name? A: John
Q: Although she represented the UK in ‘Eurovision’, what nationality was Gina G? A: Australian
Q: Who is unique in being named Billboard's ‘Woman of the Year’ twice, in 2011 & 2014? A: Taylor Swift
Q: James Braddock won the title from which boxer whose son was in The Beverly Hillbillies? A: Max Baer
Q: Born Arnold Cream, which 37yr-old became the oldest man to win the title (up to 1951)? A: Jersey Joe Walcott
Q: Which cautionary, three word motto is used by House Stark of Winterfell? A: Winter is coming
Q: Which regal title does Daenerys Targaryen acquire by marrying a Dothraki horse lord? A: Khaleesi
Q: Who plays the President in the 2013 Roland Emmerich thriller 'White House Down'? A: Jamie Foxx
Q: Who played Freddie Krueger in no fewer than seven horror movies? A: Robert Englund
Q: Who played the character Roy Batty in the 1982 movie 'Blade Runner'? A: Rutger Hauer
Q: In the classic movie 'The Wizard Of Oz', who appeared as the Wicked Witch of the West? A: Margaret Hamilton
Q: "Which icon did the BBC label a ""manipulative, neurotic and sexually repressed woman""?" A: Florence Nightingale
Q: "Which of the Greek muses had a name that can be translated as ""delight in dancing""?" A: Terpsichore
Q: Which Baltic nation adopted the Euro currency, becoming the 17th Eurozone country? A: Estonia
Q: Which country applied to the UK courts for the extradition of Julian Assange? A: Sweden
Q: In population terms, which is the world's largest Muslim country? A: Indonesia
Q: Who completes this Old Testament group of friends; Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and…? A: Abednego
Q: Under what Phoenician name does musician Rollo Armstrong’s sister record? A: Dido
Q: Who is the little boy in the 1963 children's book 'Where The Wild Things Are'? A: Max
Q: Convicted in 1987 of war crimes, who was known as the ‘Butcher of Lyon’? A: Nikolaus 'Klaus' Barbie
Q: From which popular musical do we get the songs ‘The Impossible Dream’ and ‘Dulcinea’? A: Man of La Mancha
Q: What is the given name of the daughter born to Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise? A: Suri
Q: Which former Playboy model was the subject of an opera by Mark-Anthony Turnage? A: Anna Nicole Smith
Q: During a Papal visit, which nation observed Good Friday for the first time in 50 years? A: Cuba
Q: Which author of ‘Jonathon Livingston Seagull’ was injured, ironically, in a flying accident? A: Richard Bach
Q: Which Scandinavian retailer air-brushed women from the Saudi edition of its catalogue? A: IKEA
Q: Angus Jones apologised for urging viewers not to watch which TV show in which he stars? A: Two And A Half Men
Q: Which Christian Socialist politician became chancellor of Austria in 1932? A: Engelbert Dollfuss
Q: Who is best known for discovering the Earth's magnetosphere? A: James A. Van Allen
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is roughly three-quarters of the size of Mars? A: Ganymede
Q: In which city did women's basketball teams first contest full Olympic medals? A: Montreal
Q: In which US State do teams play baseball in the Cactus League? A: Arizona
Q: December 2011 saw her appointed Professor of Drawing at the Royal Academy. Who? A: Tracey Emin
Q: What do we call the paint type traditionally mixed with water, honey and gum Arabic? A: Gouache
Q: Which mathematician and inventor conceived the first automatic digital computer? A: Charles Babbage
Q: Who allegedly killed his pregnant wife, Poppaea Sabina, by kicking her in the stomach? A: Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
Q: Its name means ‘Main Province’, which island makes up 60% of Japan’s total land area? A: Honshu
Q: Honiara is the capital city of which nation? A: Solomon Islands
Q: Who composed the music for the films 'Gandhi' and Satyajit Ray's revered 'Apu Trilogy'? A: Ravi Shankar
Q: Admiral Américo Tomás became president of which NATO-member nation in 1958? A: Portugal
Q: Which country's TV market is the largest in Western Europe, with 34m connected homes? A: Germany
Q: Which country is home to Lake Balaton, the largest lake in central Europe? A: Hungary
Q: Which US ‘Pop’ artist’s work includes a 1974 piece entitled ‘The red horseman’? A: Roy Lichtenstein
Q: Which bone in the human forearm is slightly thicker than its pair? A: Radius
Q: What is removed in a procedure called an oophorectomy? A: Ovary or Ovaries
Q: Who is 'tournament pro' at the 5-star golf resort on the shores N. Ireland’s Lough Erne? A: Rory McIlroy
Q: Who coined the term 'Big Bang' for a cosmic theory with which he did not himself agree? A: Sir Fred Hoyle
Q: The EU's student exchange programme is named for which Dutch, Renaissance figure? A: Erasmus of Rotterdam
Q: The calendar of which Mesoamerican people led to a fixation with the year 2012? A: Maya
Q: In Greek myth what was the name of Orpheus's wife trapped in Hades? A: Eurydice
Q: By what name was a member of the serf underclass known in Ancient Sparta? A: Helot
Q: What 'rank' is used to denote the iconic video game hero featured in the Halo series? A: Master Chief Petty Officer
Q: What technical term describes the science, production, and study of grapes? A: Viticulture
Q: Barium chlorate is used as an oxidiser in fireworks to produce which colour? A: Green
Q: Which TV series initially concerned passengers from Oceanic Flight 815? A: Lost
Q: In 1984, which Cosmonaut became the first woman to perform a spacewalk? A: Svetlana Savitskaya
Q: By what name is Paul David Hewson better known? A: Bono
Q: What is found in the middle of a Sussex Pond pudding? A: A lemon
Q: Which country is the world’s top producer of orange juice? A: Brazil
Q: Who was the father of King Henry IV of England? A: John of Gaunt
Q: Which was the second country to adopt postage stamps? A: Brazil
Q: Which TV detective is the 8th Earl of Asherton? A: Inspector Lynley
Q: In which part of the body is the brachial artery? A: Arm
Q: In which English city is the Don Valley Stadium? A: Sheffield
Q: What is a Lulworth skipper? A: Butterfly
Q: Which Greek god was the twin sister of Apollo? A: Artemis
Q: To which family of birds does the chiffchaff belong? A: Warbler
Q: Dido was the legendary founder of which ancient city? A: Carthage
Q: What is the capital city of Trinidad and Tobago? A: Port of Spain
Q: Who is the famous father of the film director Duncan Jones? A: David Bowie
Q: Which English cathedral has an octagonal tower? A: Ely
Q: Who will captain the European team in the 2010 Ryder Cup? A: Colin Montgomery
Q: Who played the character Solitaire in Live and Let Die? A: Jane Seymour
Q: Which number in Pennsylvania Avenue is The White House? A: 1600
Q: Which fictional detective lived at 110A Piccadilly, W1? A: Lord Peter Wimsey
Q: Who played Private Joe Walker in Dad’s Army? A: James Beck
Q: Rain was the B-side of which Beatles single? A: Paperback Writer
Q: “Wish You Were Here” are a tribute band for which group? A: Pink Floyd
Q: The Ohm are a tribute band to which group? A: The Who
Q: What structures appear on the reverse sides of all Euro banknotes? A: Bridges
Q: According to the Old Testament, who invented wine? A: Noah
Q: Who was the last person to hold the title ‘Queen of Ireland’? A: Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother
Q: “Your name will also go on the list; what is it?” A: Don’t tell him Pike.
Q: Which 2008 presidential biopic was directed by Oliver Stone? A: W
Q: Who is the narrator of Three Men in a Boat? A: J
Q: In science, what symbol is normally used for the speed of light? A: c
Q: In which sitcom did a Jack Russell terrier called Eddie appear? A: Frasier
Q: Jimmy Wales was the co-founder of which major Web site? A: Wikipedia
Q: Who was born Vera Margaret Welsh on 20th March 1917? A: Vera Lynne
Q: In which city was the first Disney theme park opened in 1955? A: Anaheim
Q: Plovdiv is the second city of which European country? A: Bulgaria
Q: In which town is the Devonshire Campus of the University of Derby? A: Buxton
Q: Where in England is the Ceremony of the Keys held every evening? A: Tower of London
Q: On which day are American Presidential elections always held? A: Tuesday
Q: Which British fabric has an ‘Orb’ trade mark? A: Harris Tweed
Q: Born 1917, which Australian painter is well known for his portraits of outlaw Ned Kelly? A: Sidney Nolan
Q: In The Mikado who does Nanki-Poo love and eventually marry? A: Yum Yum
Q: What is the name of the device from which cards are dealt in a casino? A: Shoe
Q: Which model was described as the ‘Face of ‘66’? A: Twiggy
Q: ‘Hit and Miss’ was the theme tune to which TV pop show? A: Juke Box Jury
Q: Which German canal links the North Sea with the Baltic? A: Kiel Canal
Q: Which TV cop was quite easily persuaded out of retirement by Superintendent Innocent? A: Lewis
Q: Cassegranian, Gregorian and Schmidt are all types of what? A: Telescope
Q: Relative density is the density of a substance relative to what? A: Water
Q: What was the nickname of the American gangster and bank robber Charles Floyd? A: Pretty Boy
Q: Which king of Corinth is a byword for fruitless toil? A: Sisyphus
Q: According to De Gaulle France had 246 what? A: Cheeses
Q: In a James Bond film what was Operation Grand Slam intended to rob? A: Fort Knox
Q: Scoop, Muck, Roley and Lofty are whose vehicles? A: Bob the Builder
Q: What is produced by the larva of ‘bombyx mori’? A: Silk
Q: The macaroni is a breed of which bird? A: Penguin
Q: Whose life is the subject of the Hadith? A: Muhammad
Q: Britain’s oldest tabloid newspaper closed down in 1971 – what was it called? A: Daily Sketch
Q: Which is the only Dickens novel to have a female narrator? A: Bleak House
Q: What is The Devil’s Appendix in Cwm Idwal, Snowdonia? A: Waterfall
Q: What is the largest firth in Scotland? A: Moray Firth
Q: What is the common name of the small flowering tree ‘syringa’? A: Lilac
Q: Which poisonous plant has a name meaning ‘beautiful woman’ in Italian? A: Bella Donna
Q: In desert regions what is a ‘haboob’? A: Sandstorm
Q: Okta is a unit measurement of what? A: Cloud Cover
Q: Wind speed is measured in which unit? A: Knot
Q: What was the name of the robot played by Ian Holm in Alien? A: Ash
Q: The character Katniss Everdeen is a protagonist in which series of films? A: Hunger Games
Q: Which musical is based on the Puccini opera Madame Butterfly? A: Miss Saigon
Q: What word was used for the costume or outfit of a Court Jester? A: Motley
Q: Born 1801, who led the Mormons into Utah and co-founded Salt Lake City? A: Brigham Young
Q: Francis Walsingham was the spymaster for which monarch? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Which musical instrument has a name that translates as ‘jumping flea’? A: Ukulele
Q: Which George Bernard Shaw play centres around the Salvation Army? A: Major Barbara
Q: Who was voted King of Hollywood in 1937 by a New York Daily News poll? A: Clark Gable
Q: What do Americans call what we call a ‘hen party’? A: Bachelorette Party
Q: Which palace is the London home of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge? A: Kensington Palace
Q: What sitcom title character is the TV alter ego of Adil Ray? A: Citizen Khan
Q: What was the title of the latest David Attenborough offering on BBC1? A: Life Story
Q: Which hero of legend lived at Joyous Guard? A: Sir Lancelot
Q: Who bought Necker Island in 1979? A: Richard Branson
Q: Maimiti was which seaman’s Tahitian wife? A: Fletcher Christian
Q: The Minoan civilisation was based on which island? A: Crete
Q: What is Europe’s smallest game bird? A: Quail
Q: Who was the last Norman king of England? A: Stephen
Q: Which Russian city was formerly called Tsaritsyn and Stalingrad? A: Volgograd
Q: A Russian rouble is divided into 100 …..what? A: Kopeks
Q: Which English footballer has won the FA Cup seven times? A: Ashley Cole
Q: Which band leader called his bands ‘The Herd’? A: Woody Herman
Q: Whose band was famous for recording ‘One O’Clock Jump’ and ‘April in Paris’? A: Count Basie
Q: What is the name of the central female character in “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang”? A: Truly Scrumptious
Q: Which type of geographical feature can be block, chute, plunge, funnel, horsetail or fan? A: Waterfall
Q: Which stage musical is based on two characters taken from the Wonderful Wizard of Oz? A: Wicked
Q: What is the most likely total to result from a throw of a pair of dice? A: Seven
Q: Lydia the Tattooed Lady was a theme tune of which comedian? A: Groucho Marx
Q: Which book by Eric Carle was inspired by a hole punch? A: The Very Hungry Caterpillar
Q: In which sport does the 40/20 rule apply? A: Rugby League
Q: A deemster is a legal official in which part of the British Isles? A: Isle of Man
Q: Which island group was once known as The Sandwich Islands? A: Hawaii
Q: Which large British mammal has the Latin name Cervus elaphus? A: Red Deer
Q: Who was the hostess of The Golden Shot between 1969 and 1975? A: Anne Aston
Q: Which actor appeared as Fancy Smith in Z-cars? A: Brian Blessed
Q: What is the Latin name for the common buzzard? A: Buteo buteo
Q: Who was the original base guitarist of the Kinks? A: Peter Quaife
Q: Bob Hope is a character in which British TV soap opera? A: Emmerdale
Q: Which is the most highly populated state in India? A: Uttar Pradesh
Q: Which large plateau occupies most of the land area of Southern India? A: Deccan Plateau
Q: Which member of the cast of Dad’s Army was born in Hayfield in 1915? A: Arthur Lowe
Q: Give the French phrase in general use which means a blind alley. A: CUL DE SAC
Q: Give the French phrase in everyday use thatmeans 'Spirit of Comradeship' A: ESPRIT DE CORPS
Q: Which city is served by O'Hare airport? A: CHICAGO
Q: Name the man to first reach the speed of 300 m.p.h. In a motor car A: MALCOLM CAMPBELL
Q: What term do stamp collectors give to the printers colour markings in the margin of a block of stamps? A: TRAFFIC LIGHTS
Q: In 'Treasure Island' what was the name of the captain of the Hispaniola? A: CAPTAIN SMOLLETT
Q: Name the man killed in 1967 whilst attempting to exceed 300 m.p.h. on water A: DONALD CAMPBELL
Q: Which city is served by Dulles airport? A: WASHINGTON
Q: With which musical instrument is jazz musician Sydney Bechet associated? A: SOPRANO SAXOPHONE
Q: How many miles are there in a league? A: 3
Q: In a code the word LOOK is written ORRN. In the same code how would the word STOP be written? A: VWRS
Q: The song 'Younger than springtime' was featured in which musical? A: SOUTH PACIFIC
Q: The song 'My favourite things' was featured inwhich musical? A: THE SOUND OF MUSIC
Q: Into which body of water does the river Euphrates flow? A: PERSIAN GULF
Q: Jim Peters was favourite for the 1952 Olympic Marathon when he dropped out through cramp whilst in the lead. Which famous runner went on to win? A: EMIL ZATOPEK
Q: Only one actor has played the part of Sherlock Holmes in every field of entertainment, that is stage, screen, radio, TV and records. What is his name? A: BASIL RATHBONE
Q: Which Welsh castle was the last stronghold of Owain Glyndwr? A: HARLECH
Q: Name the alleged I.R.A. bomber who escaped from Brixton prison in December A: GERARD TUITE
Q: In which town was the famous 'Gunfight at the OK corral'? A: TOMBSTONE
Q: Murophobia is the abnormal fear of what? A: MICE
Q: Name the ex-dentist who aided the Earp brothers in the OK corral gunfight A: DOC HOLLIDAY
Q: Which Welsh castle was taken by Owain Glyndwr's men while the English garrison were at church A: CONWAY
Q: Basil Rathbone made 14 Sherlock Holmes films. Who played the part of Dr Watson? A: NIGEL BRUCE
Q: Into which body of water does the river Zambezi flow? A: INDIAN OCEAN
Q: Who wrote the children's novel 'Swallows and Amazons'? A: ARTHUR RANSOME
Q: By what name is Mrs Blaise Edwards better known? A: JULIE ANDREWS
Q: Name the port that stands at the mouth of the River Seine A: LE HAVRE
Q: Tokay wine is the produce of which country? A: HUNGARY
Q: According to 'The Sermon on the Mount' who shall inherit the Earth? A: THE MEEK
Q: Name the manufactureers of the American World war II bomber the Flying Fortress A: BOEING
Q: According to the 'Sermon on the Mount' who shall be called the 'Children of God'? A: THE PEACEMAKERS
Q: Schnapps was originally the produce of which country? A: HOLLAND
Q: On 21st November 1970 what British currency ceased to be legal tender? A: TEN SHILLING NOTE
Q: Who composed the music for the opera 'Der Rosekavalier'? A: RICHARD STRAUSS
Q: What is obtained from the seeds of the flax plant? A: LINSEED OIL
Q: Which famous artist painted such worls as 'A girl in the window', 'The man with the golden helmet' and 'Nightwatch'? A: REMBRANDT
Q: Which English cathedral has the tallest spire? A: SALISBURY
Q: Who has a current top ten hit with the record 'In the air tonight'? A: PHIL COLLINS
Q: What is the equivalent Royal Air Force rank to an Army Major? A: SQUADRON LEADER
Q: Which is the only cathedral in England with three spires? A: LICHFIELD
Q: Against which country did Russia declare war in 1939? A: FINLAND
Q: What is the name of the fat substance used in ointments and cosmetics that is obtained from wool? A: LANOLIN
Q: What do 'Grandshire', Plain Bob', 'Stedman' and Treble Bob' have in common? A: BELL RINGING
Q: In which US city was the 192 metre tall Gateway Arch built on the west bank of the Mississippi river in the mid-1960s? A: ST LOUIS
Q: Named after the Queen Consort of George III, which is the largest city in North Carolina? A: CHARLOTTE
Q: Espoo, (population 248,000) is the second largest city in which European country? A: FINLAND
Q: The Bruce Highway, the longest in Queensland, runs for 1,700km from Brisbane to which other city? A: CAIRNS
Q: Which 7th century daughter of a Mercian king is the patron saint of Chester? A: ST WERBURH
Q: Who played oil baron Clayton Farlow in the 80's soap Dallas? A: HOWARD KEEL
Q: Will McKenzie, Simon Cooper, Jay Carwright and Nile Sutherland are the main characters in which C4 comedy first shown in 2008? A: THE INBETWEENERS
Q: Who was the only Crossroads character to appear in both the first and last episodes of the original series (1964-88)? A: JILL
Q: Where Everybody Knows Your Name was the title of the theme music of which long-running US sitcom? A: CHEERS
Q: Who won the first UK series of The X Factor in 2004? A: STEVE BROOKSTEIN
Q: Who plays ex-Detective Sergeant Gerry Standing in the long-running BBC 1 series New Tricks? A: DENNIS WATERMAN
Q: Which former winner of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?, Mastermind and Brain of Britain became the seventh member of the Eggheads quiz team in 2009? A: PAT GIBSON
Q: Which eponymous Shakespearean character was King of Scotland from 1040 until his death in 1057? A: MACBETH
Q: In which year was the TUC formed at a meeting in Manchester? Was it 1868, 1889 or 1901? A: 1868
Q: In 1468 Orkney was ceded to Scotland in lieu of an unpaid dowry by the king of which country? A: NORWAY
Q: The Llanelli riots of August 1911, which left six men dead, were caused by a strike in which industry? A: RAILWAYS
Q: Who reigned over England for more than half of the 13th century? A: HENRY III
Q: The character played by Steve Carell in the US version of The Office and the current Vice Chancellor of Glyndwr University. A: MICHAEL SCOTT
Q: Australian classical guitarist born in 1941 and American composer who has won 5 Oscars and 7 BAFTAs. A: JOHN WILLIAMS
Q: Leader of the Virginia colony in Jamestown in the early 17th century and a post-war leader of the Labour Party. A: JOHN SMITH
Q: 67-year-old US comedian who was an original cast member of NBC's Saturday Night Live and an old English ballad which tells the story of the Battle of Otterburn in 1388. A: CHEVY CHASE
Q: At which ground in Auckland will the final of the Rugby Union World Cup be played on the 23rd of this month? A: EDEN PARK
Q: In which Asian city were the 14th swimming World Championships held in July this year? A: SHANGHAI
Q: Since 1895 the Wooden Spoon for finishing bottom of cricket's County Championship has been won most often (15 times) by which county? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: In inches, how high should the net be in a game of table tennis? A: SIX
Q: "Which species of python is the longest snake in the world and gets its name from the Latin for ""net-like"" because of the patterns on its skin?" A: RETICULATED
Q: Talisker distillery, which has produced a single malt whisly of the same name since 1820, is the only distillery on which Scottish island? A: ISLE OF SKYE
Q: What shape is the central tower of the Palace of Westminster and also the Central Lobby which is situated beneath it? A: OCTAGONAL
Q: Which comes first in an alphabetical list of the plays of William Shakespeare? A: ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL
Q: What sort of creature is the Shikra. Is it a bird, an antelope or a fish? A: BIRD
Q: Which chemical compound is sometimes called baking soda or bread soda? A: SODIUM BICARBONATE
Q: Which member of the woodwind family of musical instruments, a sort of half-sized flute, gets its name from the Italian for small? A: PICCOLO
Q: People travel to Goat Island in New York State, USA, to get spectacular views of which natural phenomenon? A: NIAGARA FALLS
Q: Ynys Gybi is the Welsh name for which island? A: HOLY ISLAND
Q: Which island in the Indian Ocean has the highest population of any French island and sends five deputies to the National Assembly in Paris? A: REUNION
Q: The Torres Strait lies between Australia and which island? A: NEW GUINEA
Q: Baltra, Floreanna, San Crystobal and Santa Cruz are the five inhabited islands in which Pacific group? A: GALAPAGOS
Q: Which is the largest of the 7,107 islands that make up the Philippines? A: LUZON
Q: Which Pacific Island group changed to driving on the left in 2009 and also moved to the west of the International Dateline in 2011, thereby losing a day? A: SAMOA
Q: Which chemical element is named after the island of Cyprus where it was extensively mined in the Roman era? A: COPPER
Q: Who has played Dot Cotton in Eastenders since 1985? A: JUNE BROWN
Q: Which Faulty Towers character was played by Ballard Berkeley? A: MAJOR GOWEN
Q: In the 2004 film Starsky and Hutch, if Ben Stiller played Starsky, who played Hutch? A: OWEN WILSON
Q: Which 1999 horror film tells the story of three students who disappeared in Maryland whilst making a documentary film about a local legend? A: THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT
Q: The first episode of which sitcom sequel was broadcast on BBC2 on January 9th 1986 (NB This answer contains the connection)? A: YES, PRIME MINISTER
Q: Which cartoon strip by Charles M Schulz first appeared in the Washington Post and New York Times on this day in 1950? A: PEANUTS
Q: Operation Typhoon, launched on this day in 1941, was a German strategic offensive designed to capture which capital city? A: MOSCOW
Q: What was the real christian name of the comedian Grougho Marx, born on this day in 1890? A: JULIUS
Q: Which US President suffered a massive stroke on this day in 1919 which severely incapacitated him for the remainder of his Presidency? A: WOODROW WILSON
Q: Who led the Muslim forces who captured Jerusalem on this day in 1187, thus ending 88 years of crusader rule of the city? A: SALADIN
Q: Born on this day in 1951, how is the pop singer Gordon Sumner better known? A: STING
Q: Bigwig, Fiver and Hazel are the main characters in which 1972 novel? A: WATERSHIP DOWN
Q: Who was the youngest of King Lear's three daughters? A: CORDELIA
Q: Which Marvel Comic's super-hero, a member of The Avengers group, is the alter ego of an originally frail young man called Steve Rogers? A: CAPTAIN AMERICA
Q: Becky Sharp was the central character in which mid 19th century novel? A: VANITY FAIR
Q: What was the surname of the title character in H.G.Wells; novel The Invisible Man? A: GRIFFIN
Q: Which well-known fictional character, who first appeared in print in the 90's, has the rare ability to speak Parseltongue, the language of snakes? A: HARRY POTTER
Q: Green politician Samantha Weinberg wrote a trilogy of novels under the alias Kate Westbrook in the noughties, based on the fictional diaries of which Ian Fleming character? A: MISS MONEYPENNY
Q: Who is the elder sister of Stella Kowalski in Tennessee Williams' 1947 play A Streetcar Named Desire? A: BLANCHE DUBOIS
Q: Which famous fictional character retired to a small farm on the Sussex Downs in 1903 and took up the hobby of bee-keeping as his main occupation? A: SHERLOCK HOLMES
Q: Which ground was the venue for the first ever cricket Test Match between England and Australia in 1877 ? A: MELBOURNE CRICKET GROUND
Q: Which motor racing circuit was used for the cycling raod races at the 2012 London Paralympic Games? A: BRANDS HATCH
Q: Which US Football team moved from the Three Rovers Stadium to the newly built Heinz Field in 2001 ? A: PITTSBURGH STEELERS
Q: The Olympic Stadium in which city was completed in 1938 and has hosted two World Athletic Championships, three Europeans and one Olympics, but not the one it was built for? A: HELSINKI
Q: What was the name of the circuit on which the Dutch Formula One Grand Prix was held from 1948 until its last running in 1985 ? A: ZANDVOORT
Q: At which football ground did Frank Bruno defeat Joe Bugner in October 1987 ? A: WHITE HART LANE
Q: In which of New York's five boroughs is the New Yankee stadium located? A: THE BRONX
Q: After which famous American tennis player is the stadium at Flushing Meadow named, where the final of the US Open has been held each year since 1997 ? A: ARTHUR ASHE
Q: In which Swiss resort is the famous bobsleigh track, the Cresta Run? A: ST MORITZ
Q: Which Scottish Lib Dem MP is currently Chief Secretary to the Treasury? A: DANNY ALEXANDER
Q: "The name's the same - A small Norfolk town near the Suffolk border and a verb used by teenagers meaning ""to show a lack of respect""?" A: DISS
Q: Guy Lombardo and Oscar Peterson were the first inductees into which nation's newly instituted Music Hall of Fame in 1978 ? A: CANADA
Q: Chemistry - which of the halogens has the lowest atomic number? A: FLOURINE
Q: Lady Day or, more properly, the Feast of the Anunciation of the Blessed Virgin, is celebrated on the 25th of which month? A: MARCH
Q: Which common British mammal has the scientific name Erinaceous Europaeus? A: HEDGEHOG
Q: Sri Lanka has two official languages - Sinhala or Singhalese is one, what is the other? A: TAMIL
Q: What was the surname of the last man to walk on the moon? A: (Eugene) CERNAN
Q: Which wrexham company was formed in 1931 by the merger of Soames Brewery, Island Green Brewery and the Oswestry firm of Dorsett Owen? A: BORDER BREWERIES
Q: In the phonetic alphabet what word represents the letter I ? A: INDIA
Q: In the phonetic alphabet what word represents the letter U ? A: UNIFORM
Q: Love Parsley is another name for what herb? A: LOVAGE
Q: In the poetic form, the limerick, how many lines are there? A: 5
Q: Which oscar-winning film director directed the 1960's classic movie 'Doctor Strangelove'? A: STANLEY KUBRICK
Q: Which oscar-winning film director directed the 1960's classic movie 'Doctor Zhivago'? A: DAVID LEAN
Q: In the poetic form, the sonnet, how many lines are there? A: 14
Q: "For what television series was the theme tune ""I could be so good for you""?" A: MINDER
Q: A Bandicoot belongs to which order or class of animals? A: MARSUPIALS
Q: "Which American president is credited with the quote:- ""Let us never negotiate out of fear but let us never fear to negotiate?" A: JOHN F KENNEDY
Q: Rugby Union - Franklins Gardens is the home of which club? A: NORTHAMPTON
Q: Pop music - which one hit wonder group had a number one hit with 'Something in the Air' in 1969? A: THUNDERCLAP NEWMAN
Q: Which Englishman, born in 1791, is credited with inventing the first mechanical computer , that eventually led to more complicated designs? A: CHARLES BABBAGE
Q: From which animal do we get catgut? A: SHEEP or HORSES
Q: With what biblical location would you associate Shadrach, Meschak and Abednego? A: FIERY FURNACE
Q: From the fur of which animal is a camel's hair brush made? A: SQUIRREL
Q: A Capybara belongs to which order or class of animals? A: RODENTS
Q: Rugby Union - Kingsholm is the home of which club? A: GLOUCESTER
Q: What is the name given to the chicken dish in which the boned and flattened chicken breast, flavoured with garlic butter and chives, is dipped in egg and breadcrumbs and is fried or baked? A: CHICKEN KIEV
Q: What is the name given to the Italian fried chicken dish in which a sauce of garlic, tomatoes and white wine is used? Named supposedly after an inn-keeper was forced to make a dish with any food available by Napoleonic French forces? A: CHICKEN MARENGO
Q: "The novelty hit record ""The Birdie Song"" was in the top twenty for 23 weeks in 1981. Who recorded this record?" A: THE TWEETS
Q: Eric Arthur Blair was the real name of which famous novelist? A: GEORGE ORWELL
Q: At the 2012 Cheltenham Festival of National Hunt racing who was the top winning jockey, with 5 winners? A: BARRY GERAGHTY
Q: "The song ""Nobody Does it Better"" by Carly Simon provided the theme for which James Bond film?" A: THE SPY WHO LOVED ME
Q: "In the animated film classic ""Toy Story"", which film star voiced the character of Woody?" A: TOM HANKS
Q: Religous reformers - which 14th century Oxford scholar, initially famous for translating the Bible from Latin into English, later criticised the wealth and power of the church, questioning the scriptural basis of the papacy? His followers were known as Lollards. A: JOHN WYCLIFFE
Q: On which date in 1945 was VE Day (victory in Europe), the day on which Germany surrendered in World War II ? A: 8th MAY
Q: On which day in 1945 was VJ Day (victory over Japan), the day on which Japan surrendered in World War II ? A: 15th AUGUST
Q: Religous reformers - which 16th century Oxford scholar was the first to translate the Bible into English from the original Greek texts? He was charged with heresy, strangled and burned at the stake in 1535 by the Roman Catholic Church. A: WILLIAM TYNDALE
Q: Mary Anne Evans was the real name of which famous novelist? A: GEORGE ELIOT
Q: Who was the Iranian religous leader who returned to Iran from exile in 1979 to establish a fundamentalist Islamic republic? He supported the seizing of the US embassy and the Iran-Iraq war. A: AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI
Q: At the 2012 Cheltenham Festival of National Hunt racing , who was the top trainer? His total of 7 winners this year enabled him to become the most winning trainer in Cheltenham history. A: NICKY HENDERSON
Q: "The song ""We have all the time in the World"" by Louis Armstrong provided the theme for which James Bond film?" A: ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE
Q: "In the animated film classic ""Shrek"" which film star voiced the character of Donkey?" A: EDDIE MURPHY
Q: Which American, a signatory of the Declaration of Independence, proved that lightning is a form of electricity? A: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Q: John of Gaunt, son of Edward III, became the effective ruler of England during the reign of Richard II in the 14th century. Later the father of Henry Bolingbroke, who became King Henry IV, what was John of Gaunt's official title? A: DUKE OF LANCASTER
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""The Bartered Bride""?" A: SMETANA
Q: Simon de Montfort led the Barons Revolt against King Henry III and became the effective ruler of England in the 13th century. Later defeated and killed at the Battle of Evesham what was Simon de Montfort's official title? A: EARL OF LEICESTER
Q: Which 1st World War battle of 1914 occured as opposing German and allied armies raced each other to gain access to the North Sea? Later the British had to hold out against German sieges. A: BATTLE OF YPRES
Q: What is the biggest city by population in the US state of Wisconsin? A: MILWAUKEE
Q: Which nut has a poisonous shell? A: CASHEW
Q: In what film did the character Vincent Vega played by John Travolta appear? A: PULP FICTION
Q: In which year was the city of Rome founded? A: 753 BC
Q: If both teams get the above tie break then on which date of that year was Rome founded? A: 21st APRIL
Q: What was the name of the Italian cruise liner which sank in January 2012 with substantial loss of life? A: COSTA CONCORDIA
Q: "Which Irish comedian had the catchphrase ""It's the way I tell 'em""?" A: FRANK CARSON
Q: In which famous film love story did the lovers meet in a railway station? A: BRIEF ENCOUNTER
Q: "Which recording artist, originally a folk singer had top ten hits in the early 1970's with ""Amazing Grace"" and ""Send in the Clowns""?" A: JUDY COLLINS
Q: What is the name of the only British M.P. to be a member of the Green Party? A: CAROLINE LUCAS
Q: What is the name of the leader of the British UKIP Party? A: NIGEL FARAGE
Q: "Which recording artist, originally a folk singer, had top ten hits in the early 1970's with ""There but for fortune"" and ""The night they drove old Dixie down""?" A: JOAN BAEZ
Q: In which famous film love story did the lovers meet in a book shop? A: NOTTING HILL
Q: "Which Irish comedian had the catchphrase ""and there's more""?" A: JIMMY CRICKET
Q: "Which British artist painted ""The Light of the World"" and ""The Scapegoat""?" A: HOLMAN HUNT
Q: What is the largest island in the Caribbean Sea? A: CUBA
Q: On whic racecourse does the Irish Derby take place each year? A: THE CURRAGH
Q: "Which American city has the nickname ""Beantown""?" A: BOSTON
Q: The Ashmolean Museum is Britain's oldest public museum. In which city is it located? A: OXFORD
Q: In what television knockout competition did Zara Brownless become the winner for the year 2011? A: YOUNG APPRENTICE
Q: Who is the chairman of Newcastle United who also owns the chain of sports shops known as Sports Direct? A: MIKE ASHLEY
Q: Who is the chairman of Wigan Athletic who also owns the chain of sports shops known as JJB Sports? A: DAVE WHELAN
Q: "Which British artist painted ""The Grand Canal, Venice"" and ""The Shipwreck""?" A: TURNER
Q: "Who composed the music for the ballet ""Spartacus""?" A: KHACHATURIAN
Q: On which racecourse does the Irish Grand National take place? A: FAIRYHOUSE
Q: "Which American city has the nickname ""Alamo City""?" A: SAN ANTONIO
Q: In which classic novel is Maggie Tulliver the heroine? A: MILL ON THE FLOSS
Q: Mathematical Formulae - What is the mathematical formula expressing Einstein's relativity theory? A: E = mc2
Q: Petra Kvitova won the Wimledon Ladies Championship in 2011. What nationality is she? A: CZECH
Q: Medicine: What is a patient suffering from based on the following description - a spread of infection into the blood, which thereby carries the infecting agent throughout the body? A: SEPTICAEMIA
Q: "Which sculptor created the classical marble statue ""The Threee Graces""? He carved two separate versions, one stands in the Hermitage Museum and the other is jointly shown by the Victoria and Albert Museum and the National Gallery of Scotland." A: CANOVA
Q: What was singing legend Frank Sinatra's middle name? A: ALBERT
Q: What is the longest running programme on television first broadcast in 1953? A: PANORAMA
Q: What was singing legend Elvis Presley's middle name? A: AARON
Q: To which family of birds does the Siskin belong? A: FINCH
Q: Which cathedral is the tallest in the UK with a spire height of 123 metres or 404 feet? A: SALISBURY
Q: Sam Stosur won the American Open Ladies Tennis Championship in 2011. What nationality is she? A: AUSTRALIAN
Q: "Which actor, who died in 2011, became famous when referred to as the best actor in the world by Steven Spielberg? He starred in a succession of movies including ""The Usual Suspects"", ""Brassed Off"", ""Last of the Mohicans"" and ""The Constant Gardener""?" A: PETE POSTLETHWAITE
Q: Medicine: What is a patient suffering from, based on the following description - Partial or complete blockage of a blood vessel by a blood clot? A: THROMBOSIS
Q: "Which sculptor created the famous statue ""St Michael and the Devil"" which is shown on the facade of Coventry Cathedral?" A: EPSTEIN
Q: Sheila Hancock was the wife of which deceased actor? A: JOHN THAW
Q: What was the first book to be written by Charles Dickens, completed in 1837? A: PICKWICK PAPERS
Q: """The 59th Street Bridge Song"" was an early successful recording by Simon and Garfunkel. What is its better known alternative title?" A: FEELIN' GROOVY
Q: "Paul McCartney had a record commonly known as ""The Frog Chorus"" in the top ten for 13 weeks in 1984. What was the formal title of this record?" A: WE ALL STAND TOGETHER
Q: What is the name of the American student who was convicted of the murder of Meredith Kercher, along with her Italian boyfriend and released in 2011 after an appeal? A: AMANDA KNOX
Q: On this day, 31st January , in 1943, the German army surrendered to the Russians. who was the Commander-in-Chief of the German forces who offerred the surrender? A: FIELD MARSHALL PAULUS
Q: During the Battle of Stalingrad who was Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Red Arny forces? A: MARSHAL ZHUKOV
Q: What name is given to the flowers of Willow and Poplar trees? A: CATKINS
Q: In an 1890 novel, Basil Hallward paints whose portrait? A: DORIAN GRAY'S
Q: Bourbon Whisly is named after a county in which American state? A: KENTUCKY
Q: "According to archive figures (and quoted by Wikipedia), how many casualties were suffered by the ""Red Army"" (excluding civilians) in The Battle of Stalingrad? Casualties comprise soldiers who were killed, wounded or captured." A: 1,130,000
Q: "Which chemical element, a gas, derives its name from the Greek for ""sun""?" A: HELIUM
Q: What title is used in Scotland for the chief magistrate or convener of a burgh council, the equivalent of a mayor in other parts of the English speaking world? A: PROVOST
Q: "From which opera does the ""Humming Chorus"" come?" A: MADAM BUTTERFLY
Q: In the war in Afghanistan many lives have been lost due to IEDs planted by the Taliban. What is an IED ? A: IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
Q: The northern extremity of Offa's Dyke is in which Welsh town? A: PRESTATYN
Q: The southern extremity of Offa's Dyke is in which Welsh town? A: CHEPSTOW
Q: What title is used in Scotland for a public prosecutor who investigates sudden and suspicious deaths and conducts fatal accident enquiries, the equivalent of a coroner in other legal systems? A: PROCURATOR FISCAL
Q: In 20-20 cricket what is the name of the Lancasshire team? A: LANCASHIRE LIGHTNING
Q: What nationality was the artist Frida Khalo? A: MEXICAN
Q: In the cartoon series 'Asterix the Gaul' what is the name of the chief druid of Asterix's Gaulish village who makes all of the potions and medicines? A: GETAFIX
Q: """Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel"" is a famous quote written by whom?" A: SAMUEL JOHNSON
Q: What name is given to the flat, oven-baked Italian bread, related to, but different from Pizza? It is usually seasoned with olive oil, salt and sometimes herbs. A: FOCACCIA
Q: What name is given to the branch of Christianity followed by Jews in Israel and the U.S.A.? A: MESSIANIC
Q: "Which cabinet minister made the following apology in 2011? ""I simply wanted to make sure that the pieces of paper were not weighing me down. I have to apologise because on reflection I shouldn't have disposed of them in that way""" A: OLIVER LETWIN
Q: "Which cabinet minister made the following apology in 2011? ""I have always believed that all rape is extremely serious and must be treated as such. I am sorry if my comments gave you any other impression or upset you""." A: KENNETH CLARKE
Q: What name is given to the branch of Christianity followed in Egypt? A: COPTIC
Q: "Which word, beginning with S and originally German, has now been adopted into English with a meaning of ""pleasure in another's misfortune""?" A: SCHADENFREUDE
Q: "In the cartoon series ""Asterix the Gaul"", what is the name of the oldest man in Asterix's Gaulish village who still has an eye for the ladies?" A: GERIATRIX
Q: """Rank is but the guinea's stamp, the man's the gold for all of that"" is a famous quote written by whom?" A: ROBERT BURNS
Q: What name is given to the sweet French bread, enriched with a high egg and butter content? It is commonly eaten with breakfast or as a snack, and has numerous uses in cuisine. A: BRIOCHE
Q: Which country is the top grape-producing country in the world producing almost 9 million tons of grapes each year? A: ITALY
Q: Which country is the top date-producing country in the world producing over 1 million tons of dates each year? A: EGYPT
Q: "Which American president is credited with the quote :- ""Never before have we had so little time to do so much""?" A: FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
Q: """I must go down to the sea again, to the lonely sea and the sky"" was a line written by the poet John Masefield. What was the title of the poem?" A: SEA FEVER
Q: "Controversy at the Oscars - Which film director created a stir at the 2003 Oscars ceremony? There was a loud and prolonged booing when he won the award for best director for his film ""The Pianist"", becasue the director was a convicted rapist." A: ROMAN POLANSKI
Q: "Which tree, noteed for the richness of the colour of its leaves, has the Latin name ""Fagus Purpurea""?" A: COPPER BEECH
Q: "Old television quiz shows - who was the original presenter of the TV quiz show ""Going for Gold""?" A: HENRY KELLY
Q: "Old television quiz shows - who was the original presenter of the TV quiz show ""Blockbusters""?" A: BOB HOLNESS
Q: Which tree noted for the beauty of its form, has the Latin name Salix Babylonica? A: WEEPING WILLOW
Q: "The album ""Good Girl Gone Bad"" was the number 1 selling album in the UK in 2009 with sales of 1.5 million. Who was the singer?" A: RIHANNA
Q: """Dirty British coaster with a salt-caked smoke stack butting through the channel in the mad March days"" were lines written by John Masefield, from what poem?" A: CARGOES
Q: "Controversy at the Oscars - Which film director created a stir at the 2003 Oscar ceremony? There was a loud and prolonged booing after he won the award for best documentary for his film ""Bowling for Columbine"", because in his acceptance speech he had delivered a tirade of abuse against George Bush." A: MICHEAL MOORE
Q: "Which Lancashire novelist, who came from Leigh, wrote the novels ""Goodbye Mr Chips"", ""Random Harvest"" and ""Lost Horizon""?" A: JAMES HILTON
Q: "Pop Music - The group called ""The Attractions"" was the backing group for which pop singer?" A: ELVIS COSTELLO
Q: "Which British actor plays the lead part of George Smiley in the new film version of John Le Carre's ""Tinker, Taylor, Soldier, Spy""?" A: GARY OLDMAN
Q: The mother and son of which British monarch were both beheaded? A: JAMES I
Q: Which capital city sits on the river Sumida? A: TOKYO
Q: Measurement - conversion from imperial to metric - How many metres are equivalent to one furlong, to the nearest unit? (will accept + or - 1) A: 201
Q: Measurement - conversion from imperial to metric - How many kilograms to the nearest unit are equivalent to 1 hundredweight? (will accept + or - 1) A: 51
Q: "Which British actor played the lead part in the film of one of John Le Carre's more recent novels ""The Constant Gardener""?" A: RALPH FIENNES
Q: Which British monarch had the most children? A: QUEEN ANNE
Q: Which capital city sits on the river Manzaneres? A: MADRID
Q: "Who is the founder of Facebook, doing so at the age of 20? He was named by Time magazine as ""Person of the Year"" in 2010. His personal fortune is estimated at over 17 billion dollars." A: MARK ZUCKERBERG
Q: Who is the founder of Wikipedia, the on-line non-profit encyclopaedia? He was named as one of the world's most influential people by Time magazine in 2006 and was recognised by the prestigious Swiss Gottlieb award in 2011. A: JIMMY WALES
Q: The title of which classic TV comedy series comes from a Shakespeare sonnet? A: DARLING BUDS OF MAY
Q: What is the name of Rupert Murdoch's worldwide media company? A: NEWS INTERNATIONAL
Q: What is the name of the curved upper surface of a liquid in a tube? A: MENISCUS
Q: Prior to Bill Clinton, who was the last Democrat President of the USA? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: In the Bible, which four word phrase comprise the first words spoken by God, as recorded in theBook of Genesis? A: LET THERE BE LIGHT
Q: In which city would you find the Spanish Steps? A: ROME
Q: In the original Beatles line-up, who was the bass guitarist? A: STUART SUTCLIFFE
Q: A party called VERITAS stood for seats in the 2005 General Election. Who was the Chairman of that party? A: ROBERT KILROY-SILK
Q: A party called RESPECT stood for seats in the 2005 General Election. Who was the Chairman of that party? A: GEORGE GALLOWAY
Q: In the original Beatles line-up who was the drummer? A: PETE BEST
Q: What is the traditional name for a 30th wedding anniversary? A: PEARL
Q: In which city would you find The Spanish Riding School? A: VIENNA
Q: In Indian cuisine what vegetable is indicated by the word DAL? A: LENTILS
Q: What nationality was the pointillist artist KANDINSKY A: RUSSIAN
Q: What was the name of the Chief Commissioner of the London Metropolitan police force who resigned in 2008? A: IAN BLAIR
Q: Cricket - The leading run scorer in test match cricket is Sachin Tendulkar. What is the name of the Indian batsman who is second highest scorer of test match runs? A: (Rahul) DRAVID
Q: To what RAF base are the bodies of servicemen killed in the war in Afghanistan now transported? A: BRIZE NORTON
Q: Brookfield public boarding school for boys is the setting for what famous novel, which also became a famous film? A: GOODBYE MR CHIPS
Q: What is the longest river in Asia? A: YANGTSE
Q: Florizel Street was the original working title of which famous British television soap? A: CORONATION STREET
Q: Insomnia Cafe was the original working title of which famous American comedy series? A: FRIENDS
Q: In Indian cuisine, what vegetable is indicated by the word SAG? A: SPINACH
Q: What was the name of the Chief Commissioner of the London Metropolitan police force who resigned in 2011? A: PAUL STEPHENSON
Q: Which Australian cricketer is the third highest scorer of test match runs, after Tendulkar and Dravid? A: (Ricky) PONTING
Q: The Marcia Blane academy for girls is the setting for what famous novel, which also became a famous film? A: THE PRIME OF MISS JEAN BRODIE
Q: What is the longest river in Europe? A: VOLGA
Q: Television adverts - which actor provides the voice in the adverts for British Gas? A: TIMOTHY SPALL
Q: Films - Jeff Bridges and Matt Damon starred in a remake of which famous western? A: TRUE GRIT
Q: In our solar system, which planet is the hottest, with a mean surface temperature of 457 degrees centigrade? A: VENUS
Q: "Which singer, originally successful as part of a pop group, had solo top ten hits in the 1970's with the records ""Fallen Angel"" and ""My Eyes Adored You""?" A: FRANKIE VALLI
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""The Darkling Thrush""? He is better known as a classic novelist?" A: THOMAS HARDY
Q: Words - what adjective is used to describe a person who is fox-like in appearance or manner? A: VULPINE
Q: Words - what adjective is used to describe a person who is wolf-like in appearance or manner? A: LUPINE
Q: Films - Russell Crowe and Christian Bale starred in a remake of which famous western? A: 3.10 TO YUMA
Q: In our solar system, which planet is the coldest, with a mean surface temperature of minus two hundred degrees centigrade? A: NEPTUNE
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""Snake"". He is better known as a classic novelist?" A: D.H.LAWRENCE
Q: "The opera ""The Cunning Little Vixen"" and the song cycle ""The diary of one who has vanished"" are the works of which composer?" A: JANACEK
Q: Which country is bordered by Georgia to the north, Turkey to the west and Azerbaijan to the east? A: ARMENIA
Q: Andy Murray is the number one British male tennis player. Who is the British number two who first came to prominence by reaching the semi-final of this year's Queen's Club Tournament? A: JAMES WARD
Q: Amoebas and some parasites, including those which cause malaria and sleeping- sickness are different forms of which microscopic single-celled organisms? A: PROTOZOA
Q: In which English city would you find the district of Holgate? A: YORK
Q: Which Italian liqueur is a key ingredient of the well known sweet, Tiramisu? A: AMARETTO
Q: On this day, 8th November, which famous poet who was blind in his later years, died in his home in London in 1647? A: JOHN MILTON
Q: On this day, 8th November, which famous mathematician and astronomer was born in 1656? He was the first to realise that comets do not appear randomly. A: EDMOND HALLEY
Q: "Which snooker player co-hosted the TV show ""Big Break"" with Jim Davidson?" A: JOHN VIRGO
Q: What, exactly, is an S.U.V.? A: SPORTS UTILITY VEHICLE
Q: What is the name given to fundamental particles of light? A: PHOTONS
Q: Which gulf is an arm of the South China Sea, bounded by the coasts of China and Vietnam? A: GULF OF TONKIN
Q: In our solar system which is the largest planet? A: JUPITER
Q: In our solar system which is the smallest planet? A: MERCURY
Q: Which traditional Scottish soup is made with the principal ingredients of haddock and potatoes, served in fish stock and sometimes milk with onion added and garnished with parsley? A: CULLEN SKINK
Q: Which composer wrote the opera 'Falstaff', based on the Shakespeare play 'The Merry wives of Windsor'? A: (Guiseppe) VERDI
Q: The group 'Gorillaz' made a record which got to number 4 in the pop charts in 2001. The title of the record was the name of which film star? A: CLINT EASTWOOD
Q: "Sport - which cricket player has the nickname ""BOOM-BOOM""?" A: SHAHID AFRIDI
Q: "Sport - which tennis player has the nickname ""BOOM-BOOM""?" A: BORIS BECKER
Q: The group 'Bananarama' made a record which got to number 3 in the pop charts in 1984. The title of the record contained the name of what film star? A: ROBERT DE NIRO
Q: Which composer wrote the opera 'A Midsummer Nights Dream' based on Shakespeare's play? A: (Benjamin) BRITTEN
Q: Which traditional Scottish soup is made with the principal ingredients of leek, onions and chicken stew, and sometimes also with prunes? A: COCK-A-LEEKIE
Q: Who was the leader of the early christian church in Ephesus addressed by a letter from St Paul in the New Testament? A: TIMOTHY
Q: In which year did the novelists George Bernard Shaw and George Orwell die? (Will accept plus or minus one year) A: 1950
Q: Mythology - Prosperina was the Roman goddess of the underworld. Who was the Greek equivalent? A: PERSEPHONE
Q: In the children's programme 'The Magic Roundabout', shown on television in the 1960's , who was the narrator? A: ERIC THOMPSON
Q: Which playwright, with a three letter surname, wrote the plays The Lady's not for Burning and Venus Observed? A: CHRISTOPHER FRY
Q: The song 'If ever I would leave you' came from which musical? A: CAMELOT
Q: Who was the leader of the early Christian church in Crete addressed by a letter from St Paul in the New Testament? A: TITUS
Q: In which year did the novelists Mark Twain and Leo Tolstoy die? (will accept plus or minus one year) A: 1910
Q: Mythology - Diana was the Roman goddess of fertility and hunting. Who was the Greek equivalent? A: ARTEMIS
Q: In the children's programme 'Paddington Bear' shown on television in the 1970's, who was the narrator? A: MICHAEL HORDEN
Q: Which novelist, with a three letter surname, wrote the novels 'The Name of the Rose' and 'Foucault's Pendulum'? A: UMBERTO ECO
Q: "The song ""If I ruled the world"" came from which musical?" A: PICKWICK
Q: "In the famous American TV series, which actress played ""Ally McBeal""?" A: CALLISTA FLOCKHART
Q: In 2008, the 800th Formula One race was held at night. In which Grand Prix did this take place? A: SINGAPORE
Q: Which German river flows 1159 kilometres from the Czech Republic flowing into the North Sea just north of Hamburg? A: ELBE
Q: Aspirin was originally obtained from which tree? A: WILLOW
Q: In golf, the 5 iron club was originally known by which old Scottish name? A: MASHIE
Q: "In the famous American TV series ""The Sopranos"", which actor played Tony Soprano?" A: JAMES GANDOLFINI
Q: In 1994, the legendary Formula One world champion Ayrton Senna was killed when competing in which Grand Prix? A: SAN MARINO
Q: "Sixties pop music - Who recorded the 1964 hit record ""Juliet""?" A: FOUR PENNIES
Q: Which German river flows 292 kilometres from Lower Saxony, flowing into the North Sea just north of Bremen? A: WESER
Q: Turpentine was originally obtained predominantly from which tree? A: PINE
Q: In golf, the 9 iron club was originally known by what old Scottish name? A: NIBLICK
Q: Washington DC stands on which river? A: POTOMAC
Q: Which famous composer, though better known for other works, wrote the music for several films including 'Bitter Springs' and 'Scott of the Antarctic'? A: RALPH VAUGHAN-WILLIAMS
Q: 'Where Eagles Dare', 'The Guns of Navaronne' and 'Ice Station Zebra' were hugely successful films in the 1960's and 70's. Who wrote the novels on which these films were based? A: ALISTAIR MACLEAN
Q: Which English painter, the co-founder and first president of the Royal Academy, was the principal court painter to George III ? A: SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS
Q: 'A Kiss Before Dying', 'Rosemary's Baby' and 'The Stepford Wives' were hugely successful films in the 1960's and 70's. Who wrote the novels on which these films were based? A: IRA LEVIN
Q: Which Dutch painter, famous for his portraits, was the principal court painter to Charles II ? A: SIR PETER LELY
Q: Yale University took its anme from Elihu Yale because, as a very wealthy man he became its chief benefactor. Yale accumulated his substantial wealth while working for around 30 years for which organisation? A: EAST INDIA COMPANY
Q: What is scotland's deepest loch? A: LOCH MORAR
Q: Which horse, trained by the father of the jockey Ruby Walsh, won the 2000 Grand National? A: PAPILLON
Q: Who defeated Adlai Stevenson in the US Presidential Election in November 1952 ? A: DWIGHT D EISENHOWER
Q: Which two countries, who would come close to war in 1974, joined NATO on the same day in 1952 ? A: GREECE and TURKEY
Q: Which 77 year old German-born missionary won the 1952 Nobel Peace Prize? A: ALBERT SCHWEITZER
Q: In March 1952 General Fulgencio Batista re-took control of which Caribbean country after a military coup? A: CUBA
Q: Which town on the North Devon coast was devastated by a flash flood in August 1952 ? A: LYNMOUTH
Q: Which American colony became a self-governing commonwealth and an unincorporated territory of the USA in July 1952 ? A: PUERTO RICO
Q: Which European capital city hosted the 1952 Summer Olympics? A: HELSINKI
Q: What was the surname of the Scottish mathematician who discovered logarithms in 1613 ? A: (John) NAPIER
Q: Britain's first stretch of motorway, opened in December 1958, bypassed which town (now officially a city) ? A: PRESTON
Q: Russian Alexei Leonov was the first man to do what (albeit for just ten minutes) on 18th March 1965 ? A: WALK IN SPACE
Q: What is the three word collective name given to the first ten ammendments to the United States Constitution drafted in 1789 ? A: BILL OF RIGHTS
Q: According to the Bible, who was the first person to be born - as opposed to being created? A: CAIN
Q: What was the name of the man who invented Shredded Wheat in 1893 ? Was it Charles E Pinky or Henry D Perky? A: PERKY
Q: Which was Charles Dickens' first published novel, serialised in 20 monthly parts from April 1836 ? A: PICKWICK PAPERS
Q: Which Spanish conquistador successfully crossed Panama in 1513, thus becoming the first European to see the Pacific Ocean from the New World? A: BALBOA
Q: What was the well-known surname of the man who patented the ball-point pen in 1943 ? A: (Lazlo) BIRO
Q: Another Place, a piece of modern sculpture consisting of 100 cast-iron figures facing out to sea on Crosby beach near Liverpool, is by which artist? A: ANTONY GORMLEY
Q: Who wrote the novels Riders (1984), Rivals (1988) and Polo (1981) ? A: JILLY COOPER
Q: Glyndwr University's state-of-the-art conference and perfomance centre, opened in 2009, is named after which Welsh harpist? A: CATRIN FINCH
Q: In The Planets Suite by Gustav Holst, which planet is described in the title of its movement as The Magician ? A: URANUS
Q: Red: My Autobiography, published in 2011, was written by which former England footballer? A: GARY NEVILLE
Q: What was the poet W.H.Auden's first name? A: WYSTAN
Q: Which Liverpool art gallery, opened in 1877, was named after the local brewer and former Lord Mayor who financed it ? A: WALKER
Q: """Call me Ishmael"" are the opening words of which famous 19th century novel?" A: MOBY DICK
Q: The Halle orchestra has been based in which English city since its formation in 1858 ? A: MANCHESTER
Q: How were Shirley, Keith, Laurie, Danny, Christopher and Tracy known collectively in the charts in the early 70s ? A: PARTRIDGE FAMILY
Q: Who was the lead singer with Wet Wet Wet until he went solo in 1999 ? A: MARTI PELLOW
Q: Which record producer and band leader, who died in 1979, was responsible for 27 number ones in the UK for various artists including Cliff Richard and Frank Ifield? A: NORRIE PARAMOUR
Q: Who was the lead giutarist with Led Zeppelin? A: JIMMY PAGE
Q: Which rock band did Jarvis Cocker form in Sheffield in 1978 - they had their big break in 1981 ? A: PULP
Q: Billy don't be a Hero in 1974 was which group's only UK No 1? A: PAPER LACE
Q: Cricket - which Yorkshireman scored a then Test record 364 runs against Australia at the Oval in 1938 ? A: LEN HUTTON
Q: At which Grand Prix was Ayrton Senna killed in 1994 ? A: SAN MARINO
Q: Soccer - which is the only English club to have reached a EUFA Europa League Final ? A: FULHAM
Q: Including the goalkeeper, how many players are there in a water Polo team ? A: SEVEN
Q: The most famous horse race in the USA, the Kentucky Derby, is traditionally run on the first Saturday of which month ? A: MAY
Q: Which animals feature on the Royal Arms of England? A: (Three) LIONS
Q: Stretching from Winchester in the west to Eastbourne in the east which is England's newest National Park, established in April, 2011 ? A: SOUTH DOWNS
Q: Which river, which flows into the Irish Sea between Lytham St Annes and Southport, marked the northernmost extent of the ancient kingdom of Mercia? A: RIBBLE
Q: What is the two digit country calling code for England from abroad? A: 44
Q: Which is the most easterly of the five boroughs that make up the metropolitan county of Merseyside? A: ST HELENS
Q: What is the name of the 28 acre recreational lake in hyde Park, London, created by George II's royal gardener in 1730 ? A: The SERPENTINE
Q: There are just two towns in Rutland - Oakham, the county town and which other, best known for its 428 year old public school ? A: UPPINGHAM
Q: Cleeve Hill, at 330m, is the highest point in which range of hills in south-western and west central England ? A: COTSWOLDS
Q: Which state has the longest coastline and 75% of the active volcanoes in the USA? A: ALASKA
Q: "In 2002, which Secretary of Defence explained about ""known knowns"", ""known unknowns"" and ""unknown unknowns"" in a speech referring to terrorism?" A: DONALD RUMSFELD
Q: In 1851 a club team led by John Cox Stevens won the world's oldest active sporting trophy. It was not until 1983 that an Australian team won the trophy thus ending a 132 year winning streak. What was the sport? A: YACHTING
Q: 999 is the number for Police, Ambulance, Fire Service, Coast Guard, Mountain Rescue and which other emergency service? A: CAVE RESCUE
Q: In which decade was the telephone invented? A: 1870's
Q: Lesley Griffiths, Wrexham's Assembly Member, holds which Welsh Cabinet post? A: HEALTH
Q: Who was the leader of the forces defeated in the Battle of Watling Street in 61 AD? A: BOUDICCA
Q: Which two A roads now follow the vast majority of the old Watling Street, running from Dover to Wroxeter? A: A2 and A5
Q: Which other 230 mile pre-Roman road crosses Watling Street at a point called High Cross in Warwickshire? A: FOSSE WAY
Q: Standing side by side in Stony Stratford on Watling Street are two ancient coaching inns. In the 18th century travellers tales became embellished as they passed between the two establishments, and the emanating tales began to be called after them, a pracitce continued to this day. What are the two inns called? A: COCK and BULL
Q: Which former England Cricket Captain of the 60's and 70's who played in six unbeaten test series with a batting average of 45 is a vice president of Wolverhampton Wanderers football club? A: RACHEL HEYHOE-FLINT
Q: "In the 1990 Oscar winning film ""Dances with wolves"", John Dunbar befriends Indians calling themselves Lakota. To which tribe of plains Indians did Lakota belong?" A: SIOUX
Q: In the 70's Robert Lindsay played Citizen Wolfie Smith, the leader of the Tooting Popular Front. What was his four word catchphrase shouted out defiantly at the start of each programme? A: POWER TO THE PEOPLE
Q: The Libyan flag had been green under Colonel Gadaffis rule. A flag of which three colours was first flown by the rebels and has now been adopted by the nation? A: RED BLACK GREEN
Q: What is the name of the so called God Particle that the Hadron Collider scientists claim to have found evidence of in December 2011? A: HIGGS BOSON
Q: What name connects the 1971 Christmas No 1 record, which is the story of a love triangle involving Sue, Ted and the hero of the song, with a number machine first used on 1st June 1957 that has made over 100 million people happy? A: ERNIE
Q: Which colour was the title of Coldplay's first top 5 hit in 2000 and the flag used in Formula 1 racing to indicate a hazard, slow down and not overtake? A: YELLOW
Q: The title of Adam Ant's 3rd and last No 1 hit in 1982 and the title of John Newbery's children's story published in 1765 contain the same three words. It is now used as a derisory term about an excessively virtous or conformist person. What is it? A: GOODY TWO SHOES
Q: The brother of Zeus and Hades and married to Amphitrite, which of the twelve Olympian Gods had both the horse and bull as symbols and was beleived to cause earthquakes? A: POSEIDON
Q: At 26 miles 385 yards, the marathon is the longest Olympic running race. What is its distance to the nearest kilometre? A: 42km
Q: "The 1981 film ""Chariots of Fire"" featured the achievements of Harold Abrahams and which Scottish missionary who refused to run in the 100m heats on a Sunday and instead won the 400m Gold Medal in the 1924 Olympics?" A: ERIC LIDDLE
Q: In 1980 the Olympics were boycotted by countries led by the USA protesting against the Afghan war. In 1984 they were boycotted by countries led by the USSR protesting about America's attitude towards them. Only one country, which underwent a revolution in 1979 boycotted both years. Which country was this? A: IRAN
Q: In which card game is the 5th card often called the River? A: POKER
Q: """The Haywain"" and ""Dedham Valley"" are paintings by Constable both feature which river that forms much of the border between Essex and Suffolk?" A: STOUR
Q: The cyclepath/footpath in Devon which follows the Rivers Taw and Torridge is named after which eponymous persecuted animal in the 1926 book by Henry Williamson, made into a film in 1979? A: TARKA THE OTTER
Q: The Mekong river is the border between Laos and which other Asian country for about 1000km of its length? A: THAILAND
Q: "The song ""Ol' Man River"" from the 1927 musical ""Showboat"" was sung most famously by Paul Robeson. To which river does it refer?" A: MISSISSIPPI
Q: Brittany ferries operate a direct service for Irish passengers from Cork to which French port in the Finisterre department? A: ROSCOFF
Q: Literally meaning three planks, what is the six letter name of the flat bottom boats, generally about four metres long, used in Asia for inshore transport and fishing? A: SAMPAN
Q: What is the name of the Derby based firm which recently won a £180 million contract to build rail carriages for Southern Rail after losing out on a larger contract earlier in the year to build carriages for Thames line? A: BOMBARDIER
Q: Which controversial supermodel born in 1974 celebrated 10 years as the face of Rimmel last September? Her career revival, after police dropped charges against her through lack of evidence, has been viewed as a sign of moral and cultural decline by critics such as Peter Hitchens. A: KATE MOSS
Q: Which oart of the body can be described as true, false or floating? A: RIB
Q: It is the Queen's Diamond Jubilee this year, having acceded to the throne on Feb 6th 1952. In which year will she become the longest reigning monarch, breaking the record set by Queen Victoria in 1901? A: 2015
Q: Which sauce is traditionally served with roast pork? A: APPLE SAUCE
Q: Which sauce is traditionally served with roast lamb? A: MINT SAUCE
Q: Which English author, who died in 1998, published Katie Hannigan in 1950 and The Bill Bailey Trilogy between 1986 and 1997? A: CATHERINE COOKSON
Q: Which small insect-eating marsupial takes its name from the Telugu word for Pig-Rat? A: BANDICOOT
Q: What is the correct title of the Simon and Garfunkel song that is often called Feelin' Groovy? A: 59th STREET BRIDGE SONG
Q: Which James Bond film featured the main female villain Helga Brandt? A: YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE
Q: Painted in 1905, the painting Garcon a la Pipe was a famous painting by which famous artist who died in 1973? A: Pablo PICASSO
Q: What nationality was tennis player Yvon Petra? In 1946 he became the first man to win the Men's Singles Title at Wimbledon since World War II when he beat Geoff Brown of Australia. A: FRENCH
Q: Which country's national flag consists of a large white crescent and smaller star, the crescent being offset left of centre, on a red background? A: TURKEY
Q: Which James Bond film featured the main female villain called Irma Bunt? A: ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE
Q: Which carnivorous marsupial, the size of a small dog, now found in the wild mainly in one Australian state, is now the largest carnivorous marsupial in the world following the extinction of the Thylacine in 1936? A: TASMANIAN DEVIL
Q: Which English author who died in 1991 published novels such as A Gun For Sale in 1936 and The Ministry Of Fear in 1943? A: GRAHAM GREENE
Q: Which country's national flag consists of a split flag of red on top and white below? On the left side of the red background appears a large white crescent with five small white stars to its right hand side. A: SINGAPORE
Q: What name links a Welsh resort town and the surname of a current Premiership footballer who made his football league debut on May 8th 1998? A: BARRY
Q: What nationality was tennis player Gottfried Von Cramme who lost in three successive Men's Singles Finals at Wimbledon in 1935, 1936 and 1937 - two of them to Britain's Fred Perry? A: GERMAN
Q: Painted in 1881, the painting Luncheon Of The Boating Party was a famous painting by which famous artist who died in 1919? A: Pierre Auguste RENOIR
Q: What was the name of the only female member of The Beano's Bash Street Kids; her outfit consisted of a black and blue hooped top and black skirt? A: TOOTS
Q: What was the name of the twin brother of the only female member of The Beano's Bash Street Kids; his outfit consisted of a black and blue hooped top and black shorts? A: SIDNEY
Q: Opened in 1969, in which city can you find the 344 metre tall John Hancock Centre? A: CHICAGO
Q: The three letter name of which creature can be spelt out using the first letter of the capitakl cities of Mali, Kazakhstan and Bhutan in that order? A: BAT
Q: James Dougherty, born on April 12th 1921 was an American police officer who rose to fame for being the first husband of which famous woman? A: MARILYN MONROE
Q: Usually made of plastic, which transparent instrument, in the shape of an arc or semi-circle, is used to measure angles on paper? A: PROTRACTOR
Q: Opened in 1981, in which city can you find the 309 metre tall AMP Centrepoint tower? A: SYDNEY
Q: Maxwell Reed, born on April 2nd 1919, was a British actor who rose to fame for being the first husband of which famous woman? A: JOAN COLLINS
Q: Which controversial ITV comedy series of 1969 saw Spike Milligan as an Asian immigrant called Kevin O'Grady who works at a factory called Lilicrap Ltd? A: CURRY AND CHIPS
Q: Originally screened in 1960 and a spin-off from The Army Gane, which ITV comedy series starred Alfie Bass and Bill Fraser in the main roles of Montague and Claude who frequent The Imperial Club? A: BOOTSIE AND SNUDGE
Q: Which planet in our solar syatem is situated approximately 228 million km from the Sun? A: MARS
Q: Whcih planet in our solar system is situated approximately 777 km from the Sun? A: JUPITER
Q: According to his creator, which famous fictional character retired to take up bee-keeping on the Sussex Downs in the early years of the 20th century? A: SHERLOCK HOLMES
Q: In Morse Code which letter is represented by four dots (dot, dot, dot, dot)? A: H
Q: What is the name of the toy daschund with a metal body, who speaks with a southern accent, in the film Toy Story? A: SLINKY
Q: Which famous hymn begins with the words'Sowing in the morning, sowing seeds of kindness, sowing in the noontide with the dewy eye'? A: BRINGING IN THE SHEAVES
Q: According to his creator, which famous fictional character, in 1941, lied about his age in order to enter the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve during World war II from which he emerges as a commander? A: JAMES BOND
Q: Sharing his surname with a type of building, which footballer scored the deciding goal in the 1966 F.A. Cup Final? A: DEREK TEMPLE
Q: In terms of land area, which is the largest country to be situated wholly in Europe? A: UKRAINE
Q: In Morse Code which letter is represented by dash, dash, dot, dot? A: Z
Q: In which year was the battle of the Alamo? A: 1836
Q: Which poisonous compound was used by a religous cult in deadly attacks on the Tokyo subway in 1995? A: SARIN
Q: Which highly toxic protein was present on the tip of the umbrella that was used to kill Bulgarian dissident writer Georgi Markov in 1978? A: RICIN
Q: Which U.S. state has borders with Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Kentucky and Indiana? A: OHIO
Q: Which actor in 2005 played the title role in the TV remake of Kojak? A: VING RHAMES
Q: Unveiled on May 11th 2007, a bronze statue of which famous figure now stands outside Wembley Stadium? It features the character with arms folded and one foot resting on a ball. A: BOBBY MOORE
Q: Which U.S. state has borders with Oklahoma,Colorado, Nebraska and Missouri? A: KANSAS
Q: Which breakfast cereal, sold by Kellogs for many years, featured a character called Henry's Cat on the box until replaced by an astronaut called Colonel Rik in the 1980's? A: RICICLES
Q: Which group in 1971 had a top ten hit with the record The Pushbike Song? A: THE MIXTURES
Q: Which christian name is shared by two title characters in the Dickens book Dombey and Son? A: PAUL
Q: In English history, who was the legendary wife of King Leofric, Earl of Mercia? A: LADY GODIVA
Q: Which film duo met The Invisble Man, The Mummy and Frankenstein? A: ABBOT AND COSTELLO
Q: Which original ninth planet of our solar system was re-classified as a dwarf planet in 2006? A: PLUTO
Q: The group Sweet had only one UK No 1 hit. What was it? A: BLOCKBUSTER
Q: The name of which type of pasta comes from the Italian for 'little tongues'? A: LINGUINE
Q: Lockjaw is an old fashioned term for which affliction? A: TETANUS
Q: Which far eastern city is served by Narita airport? A: TOKYO
Q: Which planet is known as 'The Evening Star'? A: VENUS
Q: Which was the first of the 'Road' films starring Bob Hope, Bing Crosby and Dorothy Lamour? A: ROAD TO SINGAPORE
Q: Who was the original performer of the song The Locomotion? A: LITTLE EVA
Q: To which family of birds does the Robin belong? A: THRUSH
Q: Which city is served by Marco Polo airport? A: VENICE
Q: Which Greek mathematician is known as the Father of Geometry? A: EUCLID
Q: How many players are there on a basketball team? A: FIVE
Q: "Which scientist and inventor became known as the ""Wizard of Menlo Park""?" A: THOMAS EDISON
Q: In which Yorkshire town is the Captain Cook Memorial Museum? A: WHITBY
Q: Sarah Woodruffe is the eponymous heroine of which classic 20th century novel? A: THE FRENCH LIEUTENANT'S WOMAN
Q: Which composer wrote the scores for the Errol Flynn swashbucklers such as Captain Blood and The Adventures of Robin Hood? A: Erich Wolfgang KORNGOLD
Q: In which year did Bjorn Borg become Men's Singles champion at Wimbledon for the first time? A: 1976
Q: In Morse code, which letter of the alphabet is designated by a single dash? A: T
Q: The name of which feature of a volcano comes from the Spanish for 'cooking pot'? A: CALDERA
Q: Aboard which U.S. ship was the Japanese surrender signed in 1945? A: (USS) MISSOURI
Q: The Card Players and The Boy in the Red Vestare are works by which 19th century French artist? A: Paul CEZANNE
Q: Which drug can be found in tonic water? A: QUININE
Q: On which place in Paris is the Arc de Triumphe from which several thoroughfares radiate? A: PLACE CHARLES DE GAULLE
Q: From which flower is the spice saffron obtained? A: CROCUS
Q: Dale Arden was the girlfriend of which science fiction hero? A: FLASH GORDON
Q: Feste is a jester in which of Shakespeare's comedies? A: TWELFTH NIGHT
Q: In astrology, which sign of the zodiac is known as The Maiden? A: VIRGO
Q: What special infantry brigade was founded in the Far East by Orde Wingate in World war II? A: CHINDITS
Q: In which year did Steve Davis win his first World Professional Snooker championship title? A: 1981
Q: What is the name of Superman's biological father? A: JOR-EL
Q: According to the Chinese, 2012 will be the year of which mythical creature? A: DRAGON
Q: What name was given to the fast, light ships famously used to transport tea from China in the 19th century? A: CLIPPERS
Q: What is the famous slogan of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey circus? A: THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH
Q: Which composer wrote the scores for the Hitchcock thrillers Psycho and Vertigo? A: Bernard HERMANN
Q: Who famously stole the 'Mona Lisa' in 1911? A: Vincenzo PERUGGIA
Q: A food dish dubbed 'chasseur' contains which vegetable? A: MUSHROOMS
Q: What is the name of the family in the TV series Outnumbered? A: BROCKMAN
Q: Which of Beethoven's symphonies is also known as the Pastoral Symphony? A: SYMPHONY NO 6
Q: Edmond Dantes is the protagonist of which famous French novel? A: COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO
Q: What is Mock Turtle soup made from? A: CALF'S HEAD
Q: Which substance, found in many fruits, makes jam and jellies set? A: PECTIN
Q: Which of Dennis Potter's plays for television was about a group of 7 year old children playing in the woods, all of whom were played by adults? A: BLUE REMEMBERED HILLS
Q: Flourine, Chlorine, Bromine, Iodine and Astatine comprise which group of chemical elements? A: HALOGENS
Q: Which English royal palace was largely destroyed by fire in 1698? A: WHITEHALL
Q: As played by Bob Hoskins, what was the name of the sheet music salesman in the TV series Pennies from Heaven scripted by Dennis Potter? A: (Arthur) PARKER
Q: In Heraldry, how is a 'lion couard' depicted? A: WITH ITS TAIL BETWEEN ITS LEGS
Q: Saint-Ettienne is the capital of which French department that shares its name with the country's longest river? A: LOIRE
Q: The adult male of which animal is known as a silverback? A: GORILLA
Q: To which song does Bill Murray wake up to each day in the film Groundhog Day? A: I GOT YOU BABE
Q: What French term describes the large excursion boats on which sightseers travel up and down the Seine in Paris? A: BATEAUX MOUCHES
Q: During the reign of which Roman Emperor was Christ crucified? A: TIBERIUS
Q: In which spoof science fiction film are the invading aliens repelled by Slim Whitman's recording of The Indian Love Call? A: MARS ATTACKS
Q: Which Roman Emperor was also known as Octavius? A: AUGUSTUS
Q: Which calamity in Ireland was a major factor in Sir Robert Peel's decision to repeal the Corn Laws in 1846? A: IRISH POTATO FAMINE
Q: For the manufacture of what did Sir Alistair Pilkington develop the 'float process'? A: GLASS
Q: Which town in Hertfordshire was built in 1903 as England's first garden city? A: LETCHWORTH
Q: Originally standing in front of Buckingham Palace, what was removed to Hyde Park in 1851? A: MARBLE ARCH
Q: Which system of physical fitness that increases the strength and flexibility of the body was originally known by the term 'contrology'? A: PILATES
Q: Which ancient city in the Middle East did poet John William Burgon describe as 'a rose-red city half as old as time'? A: PETRA
Q: Who played Scottish police officer Hamish Macbeth on TV in the 1990's? A: ROBERT CARLYLE
Q: Which British zoo took delivery of two giant pandas from China last year? A: EDINBURGH
Q: Also known as Bismark, what name is usually given to a mixture of stout and champagne? A: BLACK VELVET
Q: What is the main spirit used in a Cosmopolitan cocktail? A: VODKA
Q: The Virgin's House and the ruins of the Temple of Artemis can be found in which city in Turkey? A: EPHESUS
Q: Which tennis player was stabbed by a spectator in 1993? A: MONICA SELES
Q: What is the international vehicle registration code for Switzerland? A: CH
Q: By what name was the B-24, the most numerous allied heavy bomber of World War II, better known? A: THE LIBERATOR
Q: On exhibition since 1802, what is believed to be the most visited object in the British Museum? A: THE ROSETTA STONE
Q: Which organ that develops in pregnant women provides the unborn baby with nourishment and oxygen? A: PLACENTA
Q: What was the more common name for the German World War II dive bomber the Junkers Ju 87? A: STUKA
Q: "Which inventor said in 1876 ""Mr watson, come here, I want you""?" A: (Alexander Graham) BELL
Q: What species of animal was 4 year old Knut, who died in Berlin zoo last year? A: POLAR BEAR
Q: Often referred to by trainers in gyms, for what do the letters BMI stand in regard to physical fitness? A: BODY MASS INDEX
Q: In which English county is Borstal, which gave its name to young offenders' institutions? A: KENT
Q: "Which Welsh writer's last words are reputed to have been: ""I've had 18 straight whiskies, I think that's the record""?" A: DYLAN THOMAS
Q: Who is the tennis playing sister of Venus Williams? A: SERENA
Q: Which slang word for prison comes from the name of an old jail in south London? A: CLINK
Q: Which is the largest lake in South America by volume? A: LAKE TITICACA
Q: Jonny Buckland, Guy Berryman and Will Champion are the band mates of which lead vocalist? A: CHRIS MARTIN
Q: Which type of zebra was hunted to extinction in the 19th century? A: QUAGGA
Q: In Indian cooking what type of food is Bhatoora? A: BREAD
Q: Which Irish airport has the three letter code KIR? A: KERRY
Q: Which English novelist who lived from 1883 to 1959 is probably best remembered for the creation of master criminal Fu Manchu? A: Sax ROHMER
Q: Which North West football club have won the FA Cup on two occasions, the years in question being 1889 and 1938? A: PRESTON NORTH END
Q: Who was the director of the 1997 blackbuster film Titanic? A: James CAMERON
Q: Which novelist, now aged 46, was responsible for the 2003 best selling book The Kite Runner?i A: Khaled HOSSEINI
Q: Which British media personality, now aged 48, is probably best remembered for his interview with Princess Diana on the TV show Panorama in 1995? A: Martin BASHIR
Q: Which Irish airport has the three letter code SNN? A: SHANNON
Q: In Indian cooking what type of food is Rasgulla? A: CHEESE
Q: Eleanor of Castille was the queen consort of which English king? A: EDWARD I
Q: Who was the director of the 2006 film The Da Vinci Code? A: Ron HOWARD
Q: What is the name of the strait that separates Tasmania from the south of the Australian mainland, specifically the state of Victoria? A: BASS Strait
Q: Which North West football club have won the FA Cup on two occasions, the years in question being 1900 and 1903? A: BURY
Q: Born in Cork in Ireland on July 26th 1927 what was the more famous name of the TV entertainer Daniel Patrick Carroll? A: DANNY LA RUE
Q: Born in Dublin in Ireland on July 6th 1936 what was the more famous name of the TV entertainer David Tynan O'Mahoney? A: DAVE ALLEN
Q: Which actor, from 1980 to 1982 played the roll of Yosser Hughes in the TV comedy series Boys from the Black Stuff? A: BERNARD HILL
Q: In relation to phobias, which word describes the fear of heights? A: ACROPHOBIA
Q: Which actor from 1979 to 1984 played the role of James Shelley in the TV comedy series Shelley? A: HYWEL BENNETT
Q: What is the name of the British former teacher who, in December 2007 turned up at a West End police station five years after he was thought to have died following a canoeing accident? A: JOHN DARWIN
Q: Which famous British actor, now deceased, was once given a nickname by his wife as being the Frank Sinatra of Shakespeare? A: RICHARD BURTON
Q: On which English motorway can you find services called Heston, Membury and Leigh Delamere? A: M4
Q: On which English motorway can you find services called Baldock, Wetherby and Washington? A: M1
Q: Which English author who died in 1870 had the middle names John Huffam? A: CHARLES DICKENS
Q: David Reid is the current chairman of which leading supermarket chain? A: TESCO
Q: Sticky Fingers and Goat's Head Soup were number one albums in the 1970's for which famous band? A: ROLLING STONES
Q: What is the christian name of the title character in the 1857 novel Little Dorrit by Charles Dickens? A: AMY
Q: Joseph Jagger, born in 1830 earned himself which long nickname when, in 1873, he hired six clerks to record the outcomes of six roulette wheels at a casino called The Beaux Arts? He discovered that one of the wheels showed a clear bias in that nine of the numbers occured more frequently than others and then went on to win over £65,000 over the next three days. A: THE MAN WHO BROKE THE BANK AT MONTE CARLO
Q: Which influential American painter, born in 1912, died at the age of 44 in 1956 in an alcohol related car accident along with a passengger, Edith Metzger? A: JACKSON POLLOCK
Q: Which ex make of car shares its name with an American Indian chief who led a rebellion against the British between 1763 and 1766? A: PONTIAC
Q: Which famous figure married 30 year old Autumn Kelly on May 17th 2008? A: PETER PHILIPS
Q: What is the Christian name of the title character in the 1837 novel The Pickwick Papers by Charles Dickens? A: SAMUEL
Q: As well as the traditional tokens, a token in the shape of which creature is included in the Australian version of Monopoly? A: KOALA BEAR
Q: Which famous figure married 36 year old Daniel Chatto on July 14th 1994? A: SARAH ARMSTRONG JONES
Q: Which Australian actor, born in 1979, died at the age of 28 in 2008 after being found unconscious by his housekeeper Teresa Solomon? A: HEATH LEDGER
Q: Which heavyweight boxing champion of 1951 shares the same surname as a current Arsenal footballer who has the squad number 14? A: WALCOTT
Q: Which heavyweight boxing champion of 1915 shares the same surname as a current Manchester City player who has the squad number 11? A: JOHNSON
Q: Which plated dinosaur takes its name from the phrase 'Roof Lizard'? A: STEGOSAURUS
Q: On which Wrexham Street could you once have visited a popular shop named Walter Roberts? A: HOPE STREET
Q: Now named Apatosaurus, which huge dinosaur, known more famously by its previous name, took its name from the phrase 'Thunder Lizard'? A: BRONTOSAURUS
Q: In which city was ex Prime Minister Tony Blair born? A: EDINBURGH
Q: A Carrick Bend is a type of what? A: KNOT
Q: In which Sheffield Theatre is the World Snooker Championship held each year? A: THE CRUCIBLE THEATRE
Q: "Which American author, born in 1922, wrote the novel ""Slaughterhouse Five"" in 1969?" A: Kurt VONNEGUT
Q: "Which famous product was advertised on TV with the words ""Cleans and polishes in one go""?" A: PLEDGE
Q: Who, from 1977 to 1981, was Vice President of the USA to Jimmy Carter? A: Walter MONDALE
Q: Which English artist, who lived from 1874 to 1948 is probably best remembered for the creation of Rupert Bear in 1920? A: Mary TOURTEL
Q: Literally meaning 'a beating', which Brazilian dance was introduced to the British Pop Charts in 1989 by the group Kaoma? A: LAMBADA
Q: Who, from 1989 to 1993 was Vice President of the USA to George H W Bush? A: Dan QUAYLE
Q: Formed in the 1980s and having the leader Hassan Nasrallah, which radical Shi-ite Muslim organisation in Lebanon has, for years, been involved in guerilla warfare against Israel? A: HEZBOLLAH
Q: "Which famous product was advertised on TV with the words ""it won't let you down""?" A: SURE
Q: First produced by W M Santus and Co in Wigan in 1898, what was the family sounding name of the mint balls that are described as keeping you all aglow? They carry a mascot featuring a smiling man wearing a top hat, on the tin. A: UNCLE JOE'S
Q: Which popular dance of Cuban origin and introduced by composer and violinist Enrique Jorin has its name derived from the rhythm of the Guiro (scraper) and the shuffling of the dancer's feet? A: CHA CHA
Q: "Which English novelist who lived from 1825 to 1890 is probably best remembered for the novel ""Lorna Doone"" in 1869?" A: R D BLACKMORE
Q: "Which actor played the title role in the 1972 film ""Young Winston"", the story of the early years of the British Prime Minister?" A: SIMON WARD
Q: "Which snooker player has the nickname ""The Jester from Leicester""?" A: MARK SELBY
Q: Which word that entered the English langauge in the late 19th century takes its name from the Swahili for 'long journey'? A: SAFARI
Q: Which word that loosely means a catastrophe takes its name from the Italian for 'flask'? A: FIASCO
Q: Which radio programme, released as a direct replacement for Mrs Dale's Diary in 1969, was set in a fictional cul-de-sac between Hampstead village and Belsize Park in North London and began with three young women in their early twenties flat sharing in a large Victorian house in the area? A: WAGGONER'S WALK
Q: If you are tuning in to Freeview Channel 12 what is the historic sounding name of the channel that you would be watching? A: YESTERDAY
Q: Which famous battle that took place in Pennsylvania betwen 1st and 3rd of July 1863 produced the greatest number of casualties of the American Civil War? A: GETTYSBURG
Q: Which famous battle that took place in Scotland on 23rd and 24th June 1314 was seen as one of the most spectacular of the Scottish wars of Independence? A: BANNOCKBURN
Q: Which book of the Old Testament contains the story of the plagues of Egypt? A: EXODUS
Q: Apart from York which is North Yorkshire's only other city? A: RIPON
Q: What name links the nickname of a teacher in TV's Grange Hill and the name of Roy Rogers' dog? A: BULLET
Q: Who were the first team to beat Manchester United in a Premiership league match in the present season? A: MANCHESTER CITY
Q: Apart from Stoke on Trent which is Staffordshire's only other city? A: LICHFIELD
Q: Which book of the Old Testament contains the story of Joseph and his coat of many colours? A: GENESIS
Q: "Who is the principal actor who plays a character Albert Naracott in the 2011 film ""War Horse""?" A: JEREMY IRVIN
Q: Which pop band, formed in Edinburgh and who had many chart hits in the 1970s took their name by randomly throwing a dart at a map of the USA - it landed in a city in the state of Michigan? A: BAY CITY ROLLERS
Q: Who were the first team to beat Manchester City in a Premeirship league match in the present season? A: CHELSEA
Q: What nickname links the surname of a teacher in TV's Grangehill and the alterego of a British criminal who has the real name Michael Gordon Peterson? A: BRONSON
Q: Who, since 2003, has been the Governor of the Bank of England? A: MERVYN KING
Q: Who, since 2010, has been Secretary of State for Foreighn and Commonwealth Affairs? A: WILLIAM HAGUE
Q: Created by P G Wodehouse, what is the christian name of the character Jeeves? A: REGINALD
Q: "Which hotel group, founded in 1919, became famous between March 25th and March 31st 1969 when, at it's Amsterdam branch, John Lennon and Yoko Ono staged their first ""bed-in for peace"" protest in room 902. This hotel has now become a popular tourist destination." A: HILTON
Q: Created by Arthur Conan Doyle, what is the christian name of the famous character, professor Moriarty? A: JAMES
Q: First published in 1936 in the Sunday Post, which Scottish comicstrip young boy character is famous for having spiky hair and dungarees - his friends include Fat Boab, Wee Eck and Soapy Soutar? A: OOR WULLIE
Q: Which hotel group which opened its first hotel - a 60 room facility on US Route 66 at Flagstaff, Arizona in 1954 - takes its name from the Spanish term meaning 'branch'? A: RAMADA
Q: "Founded in 1920 by Hans Riegel in Bonn and whose name translates as ""makes children happy and adults just as well"", which global confectionery company is known particularly for its range of gummy and jelly sweets?" A: HARIBO
Q: Which river flows through the city of Lincoln A: WITHAM
Q: Which fruit is the principal ingredient of the traditional pudding 'Brown Betty'? A: APPLE
Q: In the film Avatar, what is the name of the paradise-like planet on which most of the action takes place? A: PANDORA
Q: Who was the original presenter of TV's Question Time? A: ROBIN DAY
Q: After the Conquest who was the fist Welshman to occupy the English throne? A: HENRY VII
Q: What chain of restaurants was founded in Guiseley, Yorkshire, in the 1920s? A: HARRY RAMSDEN'S
Q: By what name in literature is Delores Hayes better known? A: LOLITA
Q: What style of jazz was pioneered by 'Dizzie' Gillespie and Thelonius Monk? A: BEBOP
Q: In the Roman army, what name was given to an overhead screen of overlapping shields, used by troops in close formation? A: TESTUDO
Q: What was the name of the spacecraft in the 1979 film Alien directed by Ridley Scott? A: NOSTROMO
Q: Which part of the human brain coordinates muscles and movement and is also responsible for balance and posture? A: CEREBELLUM
Q: 26 year old adrian Lewis has claimed a second successive world title in which sport? A: DARTS
Q: Originating in China, what invention, spreading to the west, made the Byzantine horse archers a potent battlefield force? A: STIRRUPS
Q: Charlie is the logo of which roadside restaurant chain? A: LITTLE CHEF
Q: In the Anglicised versions of the Asterix cartoons, what's the name of the village druid whose speciality lies in preparing magic potions? A: GETAFIX
Q: Who was known as the 'King of Swing'? A: BENNY GOODMAN
Q: For how many matches was Liverpool's Luis Suarez banned after a trubunal concluded that he racially abused Manchester United's Patrice Evra? A: 8
Q: Who is traditionally credited with writing most of the Psalms found in the Bible? A: (KING) DAVID
Q: "Which novel is centred on certain ""goings-on"" at Wragley Hall, a country estate in the Midlands?" A: LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER
Q: Which village claims that the medieval cross on its village green marks the centre of England? A: MERIDEN
Q: Pat Murphy was the first presenter of which flagship BBC 1 current affairs programme, usually seen on Mondays since 1957? A: PANORAMA
Q: Which British liner was torpedoed and sunk near the Old Head of Kinsale in May 1915? A: (RMS) LUSITANIA
Q: The ice cream known as Kulfi originated in which country? A: INDIA
Q: Which of H G Wells's novels ends with the hero settled down with 'The Fat Woman at the Potwell Inn'? A: THE HISTORY OF MR POLLY
Q: Which is the only radioactive element which occurs naturally as a gas? A: RADON
Q: What was dropped from the British Driving Test in 1975? A: HAND SIGNALS
Q: "What type of professional person did Mark Twain describe , but wants it back again when it starts to rain""?" A: BANKER
Q: In which film was Marilyn Monroe's skirt seen billowing in the air over a subway vent? A: THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH
Q: Which element is present in all acids? A: HYDROGEN
Q: In the Lake District, which pass joins Windemere to Ullswater? A: KIRKSTONE PASS
Q: Which engineer first used the term Horsepower? A: (James) WATT
Q: In which film did Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr have a passionate clinch on a beach? A: FROM HERE TO ETERNITY
Q: What soluble form of Aspirin was invented during World War II? A: DISPRIN
Q: Which isolated British island is half way between Easter Island and Tahiti? A: PITCAIRN ISLAND
Q: In Italian cooking, what kind of food is spiced to make Pancetta? A: PORK
Q: Which political leader, who came to a sticky end last year, set out his 'Third Universal Theory of Governing' in his so-called 'Little Green Book'? A: (Colonel) GADAFFI
Q: Which Oasis album became a million seller within days of its release in 1997? A: BE HERE NOW
Q: The City of London Police are the reigning Olympic Champions in which sport, although the sport hasn't been held at the games since 1920? A: TUG-OF-WAR
Q: The films The Spy with the Green Hat and The Spy with my Face were big-screen spin-offs from which popular TV series of the 1960s? A: THE MAN FROM U.N.C.L.E.
Q: "Who is said to have been reading a book entitled ""Sex and Psychic Energy"" at the time of his death in 1977?" A: ELVIS PRESLEY
Q: What was the name of the cruise liner that capsized off the coast of Tuscany in January 2012? A: COSTA CONCORDIA
Q: In which ballet is Clara taken to the Kingdom of Sweets after she helps to defeat the evil Mouse King? A: THE NUTCRACKER
Q: Who painted the canvas known as Bubbles, later used in adverts for Pears Soap? A: MILLAIS
Q: Which popular TV series of the 1960s and 1970s developed from an earlier programme called Police Surgeon? A: THE AVENGERS
Q: The Marlowe Theatre, recently refurbished, can be found in which English town or city? A: CANTERBURY
Q: Catcher in the Rye by J.D.Salinger is said to have been the last book read by whose assassin around the time of his murder? A: JOHN LENNON
Q: Which was the only track from Michael Jackson's Thriller album to top the UK singles charts? A: BILLIE JEAN
Q: In the Christian Calendar what name is given to the Sunday which follows Whit Sunday? A: TRINITY SUNDAY
Q: Lord Randolph Churchill suggested that Gladstone's nickname of GOM (Grand Old Man) should be changed to MOG - meaning what? A: MURDERER OF GORDON
Q: Which ballet caused a riot when first staged in Paris in 1913? A: THE RITE OF SPRING
Q: What name for a short haircut came from its popularity among the rowing teams of Harvard and Yale in the 50s? A: CREWCUT
Q: Which famous trademark can be seen on one of the bottles featured in Manet's canvas The Bar at the Folies-Bergere? A: BASS RED TRIANGLE
Q: What phrase is derived from the promotion by the Prime-Minister, Lord Salisbury, of his nephew A.J.Balfour to the post of Chief Secretary for Ireland? A: BOB'S YOUR UNCLE
Q: What is the name of the theatre in Scarborough which has staged the premieres of Alan Ayckbourn's plays? A: STEPHEN JOSEPH
Q: Which multi-coloured hairstyle is one of the most recognisable attributes of Rastafarian men? A: DREADLOCKS
Q: Which country are the reigning Olympic Rugby Union champions, the sport last being part of the official programme in 1924? A: USA
Q: The addition of what turns a Welsh Rarebit into a Buck Rarebit? A: (Poached) EGG
Q: Which drug was first isolated in 1921, by Sir Frederick Banting and Dr C H Best, and first synthesised in 1964? A: INSULIN
Q: In which city could you visit the Anne Frank House? A: AMSTERDAM
Q: With which other shipping line did Cunard merge in 1934? A: WHITE STAR
Q: "Which magazine, founded by John Bird and Gordon Roddick in 1991, has been promoted with the slogan ""Helping the homeless help themselves""?" A: THE BIG ISSUE
Q: What is celebrated in Dublin every year on June 16th? A: BLOOMSDAY
Q: "The name of which moist Welsh Bread literally means ""speckled bread"" referring to the fruit it contains?" A: BARA BRITH
Q: What name is given to the group of drugs which stimulate urine production, commonly known as water tablets? A: DIURETICS
Q: Which measurement of length in the UK can be defined as a tenth of a nautical mile? A: CABLE
Q: In Greek mythology, which favourite of Aphrodite became a hunter and died after being gored by a boar? A: ADONIS
Q: The Swaythling Cup for men and the Corbillon Cup for women are the World Team Championships in which racket sport? A: TABLE TENNIS
Q: Which Scottish monarch was killed at the Battle of Flodden Field in 1513? A: JAMES IV
Q: There is one family of mammals that contains only two species: the Okapi and which other? A: GIRAFFE
Q: Described in some versions of the myth as the daughter of Nyx, goddess of the night, who was the Greek goddess of divine retribution? A: NEMESIS
Q: Terry played his most famous role in the 1939 film The Wizard of Oz. What part did terry play in that film? A: TOTO
Q: How many hectares are there in a square kilometre? A: ONE HUNDRED
Q: Which town on the Tweed has a ruined Cistercian abbey that is supposedly the burial place of the heart, though not the rest of the remains, of Robert the Bruce? A: MELROSE
Q: In modern technology SatNavs use the GPS system. For what do the letters GPS stand? A: GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM
Q: In transport terms what is the British equivalent of the American 'Divided Highway'? A: DUAL-CARRIAGEWAY
Q: "During which song from the show 'Me and My Girl' is it customary to shout ""Oi !"" at the appropriate point?" A: THE LAMBETH WALK
Q: What is the title of the presiding judge in the United States Supreme Court? A: CHIEF JUSTICE
Q: On clothing care symbols what is meant by a crossed-out triangle? A: DO NOT BLEACH
Q: Haematite is an oxide of which metallic element? A: IRON
Q: "By what name do the British know First World War battle that became known as the ""Victory of the Skaggerrak""?" A: BATTLE OF JUTLAND
Q: "From which 1945 novel does the quote ""All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others"" come?" A: ANIMAL FARM
Q: """It was the best of times, it was the worst of times ..."" are the opening words of which novel by Charles Dickens?" A: A TALE OF TWO CITIES
Q: Which model has recently modelled his own underwear range for H&M ? A: DAVID BECKHAM
Q: Which Italian vehicle takes its name from the Italian for wasp? A: VESPA
Q: Who, in the Bible, was the wife of King Ahab? A: JEZEBEL
Q: Who composed the Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis ? A: (Ralph) VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: Who plays the aged waitress in Victoria Wood's classic 'Two Soups' sketch? A: JULIE WALTERS
Q: Which controversial footballer recently did a naked film shoot for The Big Issue to promote his new column in the magazine? A: JOEY BARTON
Q: What is the highest mountain in New Zealand? A: MOUNT COOK
Q: The name for which Victorian invention is derived from the Latin for 'Darkened Chamber'? A: CAMERA OBSCURA
Q: Which actor's creations include Nice-but-dim Tim and Loadsamoney? A: HARRY ENFIELD
Q: What was the original title of Radio's The Goon Show'? A: CRAZY PEOPLE
Q: In the NATO phonetic alphabet, which word represents the letter Y ? A: YANKEE
Q: What is the title of the first Sherlock Holmes novel, published in 1887? A: A STUDY IN SCARLET
Q: Which brother of Sherlock Holmes - supposedly even smarter - was first introduced in the story entitled The Greek Interpreter ? A: MYCROFT
Q: Who composed the march-like tune 'St Gertrude' used for the hymn 'Onward Christian Soldiers' ? A: (Arthur) SULLIVAN
Q: Grenouille is the Frenchfor which creature? A: FROG
Q: In the Bible, which son of Cush and grandson of Ham is described as 'a mighty hunter before the Lord'? A: NIMROD
Q: In the NATO phonetic alphabet, which word represents the letter H ? A: HOTEL
Q: Who on radio had the catchphrase 'Right Monkey'? A: AL READ
Q: Which car manufacturer produced models including the XJS and the E-type? A: JAGUAR
Q: Which supposed Chinese dish, whose name means 'odds and ends', is said to have been invented in San Francisco in the 19th century? A: CHOP SUEY
Q: What is an immature dragonfly known as? A: NYMPH
Q: What item of marine equipment may comprise a stock, a shank and a fluke? A: ANCHOR
Q: How frequently does the photograph on your driving licence need to be renewed? A: EVERY 10 YEARS
Q: In what decade of the 20th century did Howard Carter excavate the tomb of Tutankhamun? A: 1920s
Q: What is the maximum number of characters or spaces permitted in the name of a racehorse? A: EIGHTEEN
Q: Which highly alcoholic spirit, historically referred to as 'the green fairy' was linked with Bohemian culture? A: ABSINTHE
Q: Who is creditied with coining the phrase 'lateral thinking'? A: EDWARD DE BONO
Q: What name did the alchemists give to the hypothetical substance that would convert all base metals into gold? A: PHILOSOPHERS STONE
Q: "Which singer won the TV contest ""How Do You Solve a Problem Like Maria""?" A: CONNIE FISHER
Q: In films, which actress was the object of the original King Kong's affections? A: FAY WRAY
Q: Which band member is organising this year's Diamond Jubilee concert at Buckingham Palace? A: GARY BARLOW
Q: What was the fifth classical element after earth, fire, water and air? A: AETHER
Q: How many aircrew formed the complement of a Lancaster Bomber in World War II ? A: SEVEN
Q: Which U.S. actor has recently criticised Britain for it's 'colonial' ownership of the Falkland Islands? A: SEAN PENN
Q: The adjective 'Punic' refers to which ancient city? A: CARTHAGE
Q: Who played both Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers on film in the 1930s? A: BUSTER CRABBE
Q: Covering some 30 acres, which is the largest castle in Wales? A: CAERPHILLY
Q: In Devonshire and Cornwall, what items are traditionally made at harvest-time from the last sheaf of corn? A: CORN DOLLIES
Q: Which singer and actress first performed the role of Christine in Phantom of the Opera in the West End in 1986? A: SARAH BRIGHTMAN
Q: Which writer coined the phrase 'Serendipity' to denote the faculty of making lucky and unexpected finds by accident? A: HORACE WALPOLE
Q: If a capstan is a winding machine on a vertical axis, what is the equivalent on a horizontal axis? A: WINDLASS
Q: In which U.S. state is Yosemite National Park? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: How many carats are there in pure gold? A: 24
Q: "What did U.S. inventor Thomas Edison describe as ""1 percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration""?" A: GENIUS
Q: What service did both Iris and Hermes perform for the Gods of Olympus? A: MESSENGERS
Q: If an animal uses thanatosis as self-protection, what does it do? A: FEIGN DEATH
Q: Of the eight British kings called Edward, which one had the longest reign? A: EDWARD III
Q: Which mineral, whose principal use is for tobacco pipes, takes its popular name from the German for 'Sea Foam'? A: MEERSCHAUM
Q: Which planet's two largest moons have the suitably watery names of Triton and Nereid? A: NEPTUNE
Q: Huby's Tower is a feature of which ruined abbey? A: FOUNTAINS ABBEY
Q: In which year did Shakespeare die? A: 1616
Q: Which is the largest moon of the dwarf planet, Pluto A: CHARON
Q: What role on film has been played by Lon Chaney, Claude Raines and Herbert Lom, amongst others? A: THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA
Q: What service did Hebe and her successor, Ganymede, perform for Zeus on Mount Olympus? A: CUPBEARER
Q: Which international relief agency, formed in 1863, has it's headquarters at 17, Avenue de la Paix, Geneva? A: RED CROSS
Q: Of the eight British kings called Henry, which one had the longest reign? A: HENRY III
Q: Which Greek mathematician is best remembered for his formulation of a hydrostatic principle? A: ARCHIMEDES
Q: In which Dutch town or city will you find the Peace Palace? A: THE HAGUE
Q: What name, from the Greek for 'in low relief', is given to a plain white wallpaper with a raised pattern which can be painted over? A: ANAGLYPTA
Q: What was on the banned 'B' side of Jasper Carrot's 1975 hit record Funky Moped? A: MAGIC ROUNDABOUT
Q: "During which crisis did the then American Secretary of State Dean Rusk make the comment ""We're eyeball to eyeball and the other fellow just blinked""?" A: THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
Q: What role on film has been played by Colin Clive, Peter Cushing and Kenneth Branagh among others? A: DR FRANKENSTEIN
Q: The material known as scagliola has, since antiquity, been used to imitate which other material? A: MARBLE
Q: What name is given to the type of wallpaper produced by applying wool fibres to the paper to give a velvety surface? A: FLOCK
Q: A thick fillet steak served with a bearnaise sauce is named after which French statesman? A: CHATEAUBRIAND
Q: Who composed the music of the opera Moses and Aaron ? A: SCHOENBERG
Q: What term used in the USA for a half-tamed horse means rough in Spanish? A: BRONCO
Q: Who wrote the music of the opera The Love of Three Oranges ? A: PROKOFIEV
Q: Meaning 'Huntsman' in French, what name is given to a sauce made from mushrooms, shallots, tomatoes and white wine? A: CHASSEUR
Q: Composed by Eric Coates, what is the title of the signature tune of Radio 4's Desert Island Discs? A: BY THE SLEEPY LAGOON
Q: "Which stately home in Derbyshire was once described as ""more glass than wall""?" A: HARDWICK HALL
Q: What term used in the USA to describe a piebald horse means 'painted' in Spanish? A: PINTO
Q: 'Sweet Caroline' and 'Forever in Blue Jeans' are among the compositions of which American singer and songwriter? A: NEIL DIAMOND
Q: It's name deriving from the Gaelic for 'large sword', which two-edged sword was traditionally used by Scottish highlanders? A: CLAYMORE
Q: In heraldry, what term describes figures standing on either side of a shield as if upholding it and guarding it? A: SUPPORTERS
Q: 'The Company of Captain Frans Banning Cocq and Willem Van Ruytenburch' is the proper title of which Rembrandt painting? A: THE NIGHTWATCH
Q: Eric Coates' 'Knightsbridge March', signature tune of BBC Radio's 'In Town Tonight' is from which work? A: THE LONDON SUITE
Q: What to a North American is a calumet? A: PEACE PIPE
Q: Which legendary king of the Britons is said to have founded the city of Bath? A: BLADUD
Q: Which word refers to a retired professor who retains his title by way of an honour? A: EMERITUS
Q: Which British boxer was involved in a fracas with Derek Chisora at a press conference in Munich in 2012? A: DAVID HAYE
Q: With which 1960's group do you mainly associate the name of Justin Hayward? A: THE MOODY BLUES
Q: What, in American English, is the meaning of 'sophomore'? A: SECOND
Q: "Complete the line from Kipling's poem A Smugglers Song, ""Five and twenty ponies, trotting through the dark, Brandy for the Parson ..........""" A: BACCY FOR THE CLERK
Q: Who wrote the scripts for the TV series 'One Foot in the Grave'? A: DAVID RENWICK
Q: In which country was former Essex and England bowler Derek Pringle born? A: KENYA
Q: The Uffizi and the Bargello are among the museums of art in which European city? A: FLORENCE
Q: In which Yorkshire town or city was the Rugby League founded in 1895? A: HUDDERSFIELD
Q: The third of her name of the annals of the Royal Navy, which aircraft carrier was sunk by a German U-Boat in the Mediterranean in November 1941? A: ARK ROYAL
Q: In which city of South America would you find the neighbourhood of Ipanema? A: RIO DE JANEIRO
Q: Buckland Abbey in Devon was the home of which famous 16th century English seaman? A: SIR FRANCIS DRAKE
Q: What was the name of the tea-lady played by Julie Walters in Victoria Wood's spoof soap opera Acorn Antiques? A: MRS OVERALL
Q: Which precious stone, currently housed at the Smithsonian Natural History Museum in Washington DC, is beleived to be the second most-visited artwork in the world? A: THE HOPE DIAMOND
Q: What is the more common name for the Moorland shrub known as ling? A: HEATHER
Q: Which New Zealand-born scientist is credited with being the first to 'split the atom'? A: (Ernest) RUTHERFORD
Q: Which American model's ten year old daughter has made her own modelling debut recently for Young Versace? A: CINDY CRAWFORD
Q: What's another popular name for the wood anemone? A: WINDFLOWER
Q: In which part of Europe was Rugby League football banned between 1940 and 1944? A: (Vichy) FRANCE
Q: Who hosted this year's Golden Globes award ceremony for the third year in a row? A: RICKY GERVAIS
Q: What was the name of the government payment that was replaced in 1975 by 'Child Benefit'? A: FAMILY ALLOWANCE
Q: London transport changed the name of tube station 'Gillespie Road' in the 1930's to what? A: ARSENAL
Q: Which international association of environmental pressure groups was founded in North America by David Brower? A: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH
Q: The Pleasure Garden, The Lodger and Blackmail are among the films of which British director? A: ALFRED HITCHCOCK
Q: What award was won by a Lhaso Apso in 2012 ? A: BEST IN SHOW AT CRUFTS
Q: Which American-born businessman tried but failed to have Bond Street tube station renamed after his department store? A: (Gordon) SELFRIDGE
Q: In chemistry, what term is used to describe a chemical reaction when heat is absorbed from the surroundings? A: ENDOTHERMIC
Q: Which insect is the host of the parasitic organism that causes sleeping sickness? A: TSETSE FLY
Q: Which British composer was working on an operetta called The Emerald Isle at the time of his death in 1900? A: ARTHUR SULLIVAN
Q: Louis IV and Louis V were Kings of France in which century? A: 10th
Q: "Which poem by Rupert Brooke begins with the line ""If I should die, think only this of me ...""?" A: THE SOLDIER
Q: Millefiori is a technique used to produce coulorful decorative patterns in which material? A: GLASSWARE
Q: What is the name of the eastern part of the Sahara Desert, lying between the Nile and the Red Sea in north-eastern Sudan? A: NUBIAN DESERT
Q: Popular among East Europeans, which beetroot soup can be served either hot or cold? A: BORSCH
Q: What is the alternative title of the WH Auden poem which begins 'Stop all the clocks ....'? A: FUNERAL BLUES
Q: Brigadier Lethridge-Stewart belonged to which military organisation in the Dr Who series? A: U.N.I.T.
Q: Which U.S. state is abbreviated to NE ? A: NEBRASKA
Q: "What character in radio's ITMA used to say ""can i do you now sir"" ?" A: MRS MOP
Q: Which Dr Who actor starred with Ken Stott in the 1994 BBC Scotland drama 'Takin' Over the Asylum ? A: DAVID TENNANT
Q: In Which We Serve, This Happy Breed and Brief Encounter are early films by which director? A: DAVID LEAN
Q: Which American composer was working on the music for a film called The Goldwyn Follies at the time of his death in 1937 ? A: GEORGE GERSHWIN
Q: Sir Ronald Ross became the first Briton to win the Nobel Prize for medicine for his research into which disease? A: MALARIA
Q: In the manufacture of cloth, what is the name for the absorbent clay-like substance containing hydrated aluminium silicates that is used to cleanse the material? A: FULLER'S EARTH
Q: Which vitamin is produced by the body when it is exposed to sunlight? A: D
Q: Na is the chemical substance for which element used in the manufacture of soap? A: SODIUM
Q: Peter Parker was the secret identity of which super-hero of TV and big-screen? A: SPIDERMAN
Q: Robert Bruce Banner was the secret identity of which super-hero of TV and big-screen? A: THE HULK
Q: In the Bible what was the name of the land situated east of Eden that Cain chose to flee to after murdering his brother Abel? A: THE LAND OF NOD
Q: Which popular prison-themed TV series that began in 1999 featured an evil prison officer named Jim Fenner, played by actor Jack Ellis? A: BAD GIRLS
Q: Which item, of particular use to London tourists, was designed in 1931 by a man named Harry Beck? A: LONDON UNDERGROUND MAP
Q: Famous for its military marches, in which English county is the town of Wooton Bassett? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Which former London prison, established in the 12th century by The Bishop of Winchester, gave its name to a generic term for imprisonment? A: THE CLINK
Q: Taking place on September 7th 1812, the Battle of Borodino took place in which country? A: RUSSIA
Q: Famous for being the birthplace of actor William Roach, in which English county is the town of Ilkeston? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: Introduced by American John Augustus Larson which invention, not very popular on the Jeremy Kyle show, was first seen in 1921? A: LIE DETECTOR
Q: In the Bible, what was the name of the city that Jonah was told to take God's message to? A: NINEVEH
Q: Taking place on March 7th 1814, The Battle of Craonne took place in which country? A: FRANCE
Q: Appointed on February 4th 2011, who is the current manager of Sheffield Wednesday FC? A: GARY MEGSON
Q: Having held the position since 1992, Paul Dacre is the editor of which daily newspaper? A: DAILY MAIL
Q: The Central Criminal Court in London, also known as the Old Bailey stands on the site of which prison that closed in 1902? A: NEWGATE
Q: Having a height of 2,228 metres, Mount Kosciuszko is the highest mountain in which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: Which popular stage show, now showing in the West End of London is based on the story of the group Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons? A: JERSEY BOYS
Q: The Willets, The Vardens and The Chesters are all families that appear in which Charles Dickens novel? A: BARNABY RUDGE
Q: Mozart symphony number 38 was named after which European capital city, also the venue for the world premiere of his Don Giovanni? A: PRAGUE
Q: Lawrence Boythorne, Sir Leicester Dedlock and Mr William Guppy are all characters that appear in which Charles Dickens novel? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: What was the name of the Manchester City international footballer who tragically died on the pitch on June 26th 2003 whilst playing for Cameroon against Columbia? A: MARC VIVIEN FOE
Q: Who did John Bercow replace as Speaker of the House of Commons on june 22nd 2009? A: MICHAEL MARTIN
Q: Listed at number 69 on the Periodic Table, which chemical element has the symbol Tm? A: THULIUM
Q: Specifically, what would a person have a fear of if they suffered from Gynophobia? A: WOMEN
Q: Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were the first two men to walk on the moon in 1969, but which fellow American became the third man to achieve this feat on November 19th 1969 along with fellow astronaut Alan Bean in the Apollo 12 mission? A: CHARLES CONRAD
Q: In the House of Commons, which word of three letters is used by members supporting a motion vote? A: AYE
Q: On First Looking Into Chapman's House in 1816 and The Eve of St Agnes in 1820 are works by which British poet? A: John KEATS
Q: What name links a former British Prime Minister, a big screen cop first seen in 1971 and a Liverpool footballer who first played for the club in 1960? A: CALLAGHAN
Q: Specifically, what would a person have a fear of if they suffered from Pediophobia? A: DOLLS
Q: OVER SHREWD FAT is an anagram of which Welsh town? A: HAVERFORDWEST
Q: Listed at number 96 in the Periodic Table, which chemical element has the symbol Cm? A: CURIUM
Q: Released in 1965, who was the director of the film 'The Sound of Music' A: ROBERT WISE
Q: What name links a former US President, an actor who starred in the film 'The Dirty Dozen' and a Liverpool footballer who first played for the club in 1974? A: KENNEDY
Q: I wondered lonely as a cloud (also known as 'Daffodils') in 1807 and 'Lucy Gray' in 1798 are works by which British poet? A: William WORDSWORTH
Q: In the House of Lords, which seven letter word is used by members supporting a motion vote? A: CONTENT
Q: What was the name of the British Army officer who, in 1953, gained recognition as the leader of the successful British expedition to Mount Everest? A: JOHN HUNT
Q: With which song did Clodagh Rogers represent the UK in the 1971 Eurovision Song Contest? A: JACK IN THE BOX
Q: What is the name of the notorious villain who, in 1996, fled to Spain after killing a fellow motorist named Stephen Cameron following an altercation near the M25 motorway? A: KENNETH NOYE
Q: Name the year - The Manchester Metrolink officially opens, Windsor Castle is badly damaged by fire, Gary Lineker is voted Football Writers Player of the Year and 'Stay' by Shakespeare's Sister reaches number one in the British pop charts. A: 1992
Q: Which tennis player has reached the final of the men's singles at Wimbledon three times in the last eight years losing on every occasion? A: ANDY RODDICK
Q: Which TV series was won by a man named Tom Pellerau on July 17th this year? A: THE APPRENTICE
Q: Which tennis player reached the fonal of the men's singles at Wimbledon three times between 1990 and 1995, losing onevery occasion? A: BORIS BECKER
Q: What is the name of the national currency of Thailand? A: BAHT
Q: What is the name of the national currency of Malaysia? A: RINGGIT
Q: From which musical does the song On The Street Where You live come? A: MY FAIR LADY
Q: Which animal in the world comes second alphabetically? A: AARDWOLF
Q: In 2011, who became the first Northern Irish golfer since Fred Daly to win the Open? A: DARREN CLARKE
Q: Which pub group owns the Toby Carvery chain? A: MITCHELLS AND BUTLERS
Q: Which family ruled Russia from 1613 until the 1917 revolution? A: ROMANOV
Q: Odette and Prince Siegfried are lovers in which ballet? A: SWAN LAKE
Q: Which Spanish city is traditionally known for its manufacture of swords and knives? A: TOLEDO
Q: Which French tennis player defeated Serena Williams at this year's Wimbledon Championships? A: MARION BARTOLI
Q: Zog the First proclaimed himself king of which country in 1928? A: ALBANIA
Q: Which would-be hunter was the arch-enemy of the cartoon character, Bugs Bunny? A: ELMER FUDD
Q: Where in Wales was the first Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty established in 1956? A: THE GOWER PENINSULA
Q: Which company owns the Costa coffee chain? A: WHITBREAD
Q: Which word, derived from the Latin for 'fire', is applied to volcanic rock formed from cooling magma or lava and solidifying from a molten state? A: IGNEOUS
Q: What species of rodent is the world's largest? A: THE CAPYBARA
Q: What was the name of Alexander the Great's father who ruled Macedonia between 359 and 336BC? A: PHILIP II
Q: Which composer's music forms the basis of the ballet Pineapple Poll? A: SULLIVAN
Q: Which French city, the capital of the Core D'Or department is famous for its mustard? A: DIJON
Q: A government paper setting out proposals and inviting consultation on a policy, before it is ever presented as a White Paper, is identified by what colour? A: GREEN Paper
Q: Which veteran performer in rock music began his hit-making career in the mid 1960's with the Belfast quartet named 'Them'? A: VAN MORRISON
Q: Who won the 2010 Man-Booker Prize with the novel The Finkler Question ? A: HOWARD JACOBSON
Q: In the endocrine system in the human body, what name is given to the pair of glands situated at the top of the kidneys? A: ADRENAL GLANDS
Q: Who was the famous son of Pepin the Short ? A: CHARLEMAGNE
Q: For what do the letters M I stand in M.I.5 and M.I.6 ? A: MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
Q: Which cartoon character first appeared in an animated feature called The Wise Little Hen ? A: DONALD DUCK
Q: In music, the short-lived skiffle group known as Johnny and the Moondogs went on to become more famous under what name? A: THE BEATLES
Q: Which vessel, designed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel. was the first ocean-going steamer to be built of iron? A: SS GREAT BRITAIN
Q: The Okapi is most closely related to which other African mammal? A: GIRAFFE
Q: What is the official London residence of the Archbisop of Cantebury? A: LAMBETH PALACE
Q: Which of the planets in our solar system is closest to the Sun? A: MERCURY
Q: 'Sparrow Grass' is an alternatve name for which plant? A: ASPARAGUS
Q: Which annual cricket fixture which began in 1806 was last played in 1962? A: GENTLEMEN V PLAYERS
Q: At which hotel in Los Angeles was Robert Kennedy assassinated in 1968? A: AMBASSADOR
Q: The arboreal primate known as the Lemur is native to which island country? A: MADAGASCAR
Q: A dish served 'a la crecy' always contains which vegetable? A: CARROT
Q: September 29th is a Quarter Day in the legal calendar when, traditionally, rents were due and magistrates were chosen; what is the name applied to this day? A: MICHAELMAS
Q: Which country's London embassy was seized by hostage-takers in 1980? A: IRAN
Q: Which theatre was Abraham Lincoln attending when he was asassinated? A: FORD
Q: Edward Fairfax Rochester is a character in which 19th century novel? A: JANE EYRE
Q: When Argentinians landed on South Georgia in 1982, an event which led to the Falklands conflict, what had they supposedly come to collect? A: SCRAP METAL
Q: Who succeeded David Tennant in the role of TV's 'Doctor Who'? A: MATT SMITH
Q: What is the official residence of the Lord Mayor of London? A: MANSION HOUSE
Q: Knowna s the 'Evening Satr' which planet in our solar system is the closest in size to earth? A: VENUS
Q: In what is a food baked if it is 'en croute'? A: PASTRY
Q: What codename was given to the German invasion of Russia in May 1941? A: BARBAROSSA
Q: What is the generic name given to the sparkling wines produced in the Penedes region of north-eastern Spain? A: CAVA
Q: What common pub name comes from the symbol associated with king Richard II ? A: THE WHITE HART
Q: What name, derived from the German 'to join', was given to the Nazi takeover of the Austrian Republic in 1938? A: ANSCHLUSS
Q: What is the name of the sparkling wines of Germany, made from imported grape juice or, if made from German grapes, is preceded by the word Deutscher' ? A: SEKT
Q: Which 19th century novel is subtitled 'The Parish Boy's Progress' ? A: OLIVER TWIST
Q: What name is given in the Christian calendar to February 2nd, also a Quarter Day in the Scottish legal calendar? A: CANDLEMAS
Q: Which popular Doctor Who villains, it was revealed in 2011, are to be given 'a rest' by scriptwriters? A: THE DALEKS
Q: Which iconic musical actress was born Frances Gumm in 1922? A: JUDY GARLAND
Q: What is the usual collective noun for a group of toads? A: KNOT
Q: Who wrote the play Arms and the Man? A: GEORGE BERNARD SHAW
Q: In the Beatrix Potter stories, what sort of animal or creature is Jeremy Fisher? A: A FROG
Q: Darts player Phil Taylor is normally known by what nickname? A: THE POWER
Q: Which 1975 film features a boat called the Orca ? A: JAWS
Q: What name have the Beckhams given to their fourth child and first daughter? A: HARPER SEVEN
Q: Whose report in December 1942 led to the setting up of the N.H.S.? A: WILLIAM BEVERIDGE
Q: What river flows through the Grand Canyon? A: COLORADO
Q: Which part of the mouth can be affected by Quinsy? A: THE TONSILS
Q: What's the most common English name for the bird with the taxonomical name Crex crex, also known as the Land Rail? A: CORNCRAKE
Q: Who was the lead singer with the pop group The Mindbenders? A: WAYNE FONTANA
Q: Which rank in the Royal Navy is equivalent to that of brigadier in the Army? A: COMMODORE
Q: In the 'Noggin the Nog' children's stories and cartoons what is the name of Noggin's wicked uncle? A: NOGBAD
Q: Which South African golf player is known as 'The Big Easy'? A: ERNIE ELS
Q: What name is popularly applied to the church tower of St Botolph's in Boston, Lincolnshire? A: THE BOSTON STUMP
Q: In which gland in the human body would you find the small clusters of cells known as the Islets of Langerhans? A: PANCREAS
Q: In the books of Michael Bond, Paddington Bear hails from which country? A: PERU
Q: The brothers in The Kinks were Ray and ... ? A: DAVE DAVIES
Q: Which 1981 film features a suave French villain named Belloq? A: RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK
Q: "The football chant ""who ate all the pies?"" is usually sung to the tune of which music hall ditty?" A: KNEES UP MOTHER BROWN
Q: Clarissa Churchill was the second wife of which British Prime Minister? A: ANTHONY EDEN
Q: Described by Elizabeth I as 'the fairest and godliest church in England', in which city is the church of St Mary Redcliffe? A: BRISTOL
Q: Which river flows through what is known in English as 'The Iron Gate', the deepest gorge in Europe? A: DANUBE
Q: Who was Minister of Education when the 1944 Education Act was passed? A: R.A.BUTLER
Q: Much in evidence in the 2010 World Cup, what is the name of the horns providing a noisy background drone? A: VUVUZELA
Q: What was the name of Captain Pugwash's faithful cabin boy in the BBC TV cartoon? A: TOM
Q: What was formerly the highest appointment in the British Army, being abolished in 1904? A: COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
Q: Which Dutch astronomer and physicist, who discovered the rings of Saturn in the mid 1650's, is creditied with building the first pendulum clock? A: CHRISTIAAN HUYGENS
Q: Which supermarket chain has its headquarters in Bradford? A: MORRISONS
Q: Which Gilbert and Sullivan opera was originally going to be called The Tower of London? A: THE YEOMAN OF THE GUARD
Q: What is the motto of the Salvation Army? A: BLOOD AND FIRE
Q: The flat, rectangular, hand-held tool used by a plasterer to hold his mortar as he works is usually known by the name of what type of bird? A: A HAWK
Q: Which religous movement was founded by Mary Baker Eddy? A: CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Q: Which company owns the Waitrose chain of supermarkets? A: JOHN LEWIS
Q: Which fashion designer brought out the 'New Look' in 1947? A: CHRISTIAN DIOR
Q: In which landlocked country of Europe were women denied the right to vote in national elections until 1971? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: In which TV series does Anthony Head play Uther Pendragon? A: MERLIN
Q: 'Fair Maid of February' was a once popular name for which small, white flower? A: SNOWDROP
Q: Which of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan, when first presented at the Savoy Theatre in 1887, was billed as 'A New and Original Supernatural Opera in Two Acts'? A: RUDDIGORE
Q: Which is the only country in the world that bans women from driving? A: SAUDI ARABIA
Q: What name is given to that part of Antarctica governed by New Zealand? A: THE ROSS DEPENDENCY
Q: Which one of the castles that form the group known as 'The Iron Ring', built in the 13th century by Edward I on the Welsh coast, stands on the island of Anglesey? A: BEAUMARIS
Q: Which scupture, when unveiled in 1994, was nicknamed 'The Gateshead Flasher' by locals? A: THE ANGEL OF THE NORTH
Q: Which district of New York City is situated north of 96th street in Manhattan? A: HARLEM
Q: Which American entertainer's signature tune was 'Ain't Misbehavin'? A: FATS WALLER
Q: Born in Alabama in 1904, what was the nickname of the blues pianist Clarence Smith? A: PINETOP
Q: The village on Anglesey which boasts the longest placename in Britain (Llanfairpwllgwyngyll.. etc.) is notable for another reason: it was the location of the first ever meeting, in 1915, of a now nationwide organisation originally founded in Canada. Name the organisaton. A: THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTE
Q: Which former Welsh boxing championwas known as 'The ghost with the hammer in his hand'? A: JIMMY WILDE
Q: If something osifies, what does it turn into? A: BONE
Q: What type of leaf forms the bulk of a silkworm's diet? A: MULBERRY
Q: Which 11 letter word is commonly used to describe a cocktail that consists of vodka and orange juice? A: SCREWDRIVER
Q: Which two word term is commonly used to describe a cocktail consisting of vodka and tomato juice? A: BLOODY MARY
Q: Which famous cartoon character, introduced in 1949 and voiced by Jim Backus, has the christian name Quincy? A: MR MAGOO
Q: """The light that failed"" in 1871, ""Captain Courageous"" in 1876 and ""Kim"" in 1901 are all novels by which famous author?" A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: "Which Gilbert and Sullivan opera that premiered in 1889 has the alternative name ""The king of Barataria""?" A: THE GONDOLIERS
Q: "What is the name of the actor who has now become famous for his role as the killer Freddie Kruger in the 1984 film ""A Nightmare on Elm street""?" A: ROBERT ENGLUND
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the deaths of Matt Busby, John Curry, Fanny Craddock and Richard Nixon? A: 1994
Q: """Indian Camp"" in 1926, ""A farewell to arms"" in 1929 and ""The short, happy life of Franics Macomber"" in 1935 are all novels by which famous author?" A: ERNEST HEMMINGWAY
Q: Which famous puppet character, introduced in 1965 and voiced by David Graham has the christian name Aloysius? A: PARKER
Q: Which ex tennis player who was born on November 22nd 1867 had the nickname 'boom boom'? A: BORIS BECKER
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the deaths of Linda McCartney, Frank Sinatra, Catherine Cookson and Justin Fashanu? A: 1998
Q: "What is the name of the actress who had become famous for her role as the possessed girl, Regan, in the 1973 film ""The Exorcist""?" A: LINDA BLAIR
Q: "Which Gilbert and Sullivan opera that premiered in 1884 has the alternative name ""Castle Adamant""?" A: PRINCESS IDA
Q: "Which British comedian, now aged 53, played the role of a headmaster named Ian George in a BBC1 series called ""Hope and Glory"" in 1999 and 2000?" A: LENNY HENRY
Q: "Which British comedian, now aged 56, played the role of a bingo hall manager named Ray Temple in a BBC1 series called ""Eyes Down"" in 2003 and 2004" A: PAUL O'GRADY
Q: Which five letter word can be the name of a famous cricketer, to pray or the christian name of a famous actress who died on September 14th 1982 aged 52? A: GRACE
Q: In the Harry Potter books by J K Rowling, what is the name of the character who is Hogwart's gamekeeper and keeper of keys? He is played in the film series by Scottish actor Robbie Coltrane. A: RUBEUS HAGRID
Q: Which six letter name can be the name of a famous actor, a shoe shop and the christian name of an American soul singer who died on September 26th 1999 aged 57? A: CURTIS
Q: The Twingo, the Fluence and the Latitude are all models of car that are made by which company? A: RENAULT
Q: The Linea, the Sedici and the Stilo are all models of car that are made by which company? A: FIAT
Q: "Who was the main actor who played the character Mitch Brenner in the 1963 Hitchcock filme ""The Birds""?" A: ROD TAYLOR
Q: "Who was the main actor who played the murderous character Bob Rusk in the 1972 Hitchcock film ""Frenzy""?" A: BARRY FOSTER
Q: The Kalahari desert covers approximately 70% of which country? A: BOTSWANA
Q: "Which organisation, founded in 1905, has the motto ""Indocilis Privata Loqui"" which translates as ""nor apt to disclose secrets""?" A: THE MAGIC CIRCLE
Q: Which seven letter word is the medical word used for the shoulder blade? A: SCAPULA
Q: Wikipedia is a familiar internet website, but specifically which film is the subject of the website Wookieepedia? A: STAR WARS
Q: Which jockey rode 100/1 outsider Foinavon to victory in the 1967 Grand National following a mass pile-up at the 23rd fence? A: JOHN BUCKINGHAM
Q: Which bank had the advertising slogan 'The bank that likes to say yes'? A: TSB
Q: If all the elements in the Periodic Table were placed in alphabetical order, which would be the last listed that is represented by a single letter symbol? A: YTTRIUM
Q: In chess notation, which is the only piece that is represented by a letter that does not begin the name of the piece it represents? A: KNIGHT
Q: "The organisation ""Sons of the desert"" is an official international appreciation society that is devoted to which film characters?" A: LAUREL AND HARDY
Q: "Which organisation, formed in 1824, has the motto ""Train one, save many""?" A: RNLI
Q: The Gobi desert is situated in China and which other country? A: MONGOLIA
Q: In a game of scrabble, the letter V is worth how many points? A: FOUR
Q: "Which bank had the advertising slogan ""come and talk to the listening bank""?" A: MIDLAND
Q: "Which jockey rode 50/1 outsider ""Last Suspect"" to victory in the 1985 Grand National?" A: HYWEL DAVIES
Q: Which six letter word is used to describe a person whose occupation is to drive a dog sled? A: MUSHER
Q: Which eleven letter word is used to describe a person who performs on a tightrope? A: FUNAMBULIST
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name of the giant with 100 eyes who was slain by Hermes? A: ARGUS
Q: The flag of Haiti consists of which two colours? A: BLUE AND RED
Q: "Which group, on May 18th 1974, reached number one in the UK charts with the record ""Sugar Baby Love"", staying there for four weeks?" A: THE RUBETTES
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name of the three headed dog that guards the gates of the Underworld? A: CERBERUS
Q: The flag of Tunisia consists of which two colours? A: RED AND WHITE
Q: Which nine letter word, taken from the Aboriginal language is used by Australians for an oxbow lake or stagnant pond? A: BILLABONG
Q: Oberon is a moon of which planet in our solar system? A: URANUS
Q: Which city will host the 2014 Commonwealth Games? A: GLASGOW
Q: Which eleven letter word is used to describe the study of weather? A: METEOROLOGY
Q: In which northern British city can you find Waverley Railway Station? A: EDINBURGH
Q: What was the famous name of English singer Terence Edward Parsons? Born in 1930, he once represented the UK in the Eurovision Song Contest. A: MATT MONRO
Q: Who was the captain of the English Cricket Team during the controversial Bodyline series of 1932 and 1933? A: DOUGLAS JARDINE
Q: Which shade of brownish purple takes its name from the Spanish for flea? A: PUCE
Q: In which English city did entertainer Jimmy Saville sadly pass away recently? A: LEEDS
Q: "The TV cartoon ""Scooby Doo, Where Are You"" featured the adventures of Scooby Doo and his three human friends Daphne, Velma and Shaggy and which other character, famous for his strikingly blond hair?" A: FREDDIE
Q: What was the name of the Nottinghamshire fast bowler appointed as the main bowler for England in the Bodyline series of 1932 and 1933? A: HAROLD LARWOOD
Q: Taking office on September 5th 1939 until June 4th 1948, who was South African Prime Minister for the vast majority of World War Two? A: JAN SMUTS
Q: In which southern British city can you find St James' Park Railway Station? A: EXETER
Q: Which British businessman and Liberal party politician and fraudster was at the centre of an 1892 scandal when the Liberator Building Society which he had set up failed, leaving thousands of investors penniless? He later fled to Argentina before being extradited, tried and imprisoned for 14 years. A: Jabez BALFOUR
Q: Which lavender-like colour takes its name from the French for mallow? A: MAUVE
Q: "Which actor played the roll of Fletcher Christian in the 1962 film ""Mutiny on the Bounty""?" A: MARLON BRANDO
Q: Which island, famous for its monastery lies off the coast of South Wales just south of Tenby? A: CALDEY
Q: Which famous politician is married to Miriam Gonzales Valladold and has three sons? A: NICK CLEGG
Q: "Which actor played the role of Julius Caesar in the 1963 film ""Cleopatra""?" A: REX HARRISON
Q: Which famous politician is married to Yvette Cooper and has three children, two boys and a girl? A: ED BALLS
Q: Which small island, situated just off Holy Island on the north west coast of Anglesey is famous as being the location of one of Wales's most spectacular lighthouses? A: SOUTH STACK
Q: In which war did the Battle of Hamburger Hill take place? A: VIETNAM
Q: In which war did the Battle of Cabin Creek take place? A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: Which English monarch who reigned from 1422 to 1461 and then briefly from 1470 to 1471 was stabbed to death in the Tower of London in 1471? A: HENRY VI
Q: Which English monarch who reigned from 1377 to 1399 met his death in Pontefract Castle in 1400, probably being starved? A: RICHARD II
Q: "Translated as ""cluster of eight"" and situated in the Pacific Ocean what name did the Ellice Islands adopt on gaining independence in 1978?" A: TUVALU
Q: "Who, in 1989 sang the theme song to the James Bond film ""Licence to Kill""?" A: GLADYS KNIGHT
Q: "In the USA what is the value of a banknote sometimes referred to as a ""Benjamin""?" A: $100
Q: Which darts player won the BDO title in 2008 beating Simon Whitlock of Australia in the final? A: MARK WEBSTER
Q: What is the national currency of Brazil? A: REAL
Q: "Who, upon her execution on October 16th 1793 was known as the ""Widow Capet""?" A: MARIE ANTOINETTE
Q: "Which product was advertised on TV as ""it spreads straight from the fridge""?" A: BLUE BAND
Q: In the New Testament, which book follows Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? A: ACTS
Q: "In the USA what is the value of a banknote sometimes referred to as a ""Sawbuck""?" A: $10
Q: "Which landlocked country in West Africa had previous names ""French Upper Volta"" and from 1958 to 1984 ""Republic of Upper Volta""?" A: BURKINO FASO
Q: In the Old testament which book follows Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus and Numbers? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: Who, on January 31st 1606, was executed along with three other prisoners - Thomas Wintour, Ambrose Rookwood and Robert Keys? A: GUY FAWKES
Q: What is the national currency of Indonesia? A: RUPIAH
Q: "Which actress played the role of Morticia Addams in the TV series ""The Addams Family""?" A: CAROLYN JONES
Q: "Which actress played the role of Lily Munster in the TV series ""The Munsters""?" A: YVONNE DE CARLO
Q: "Which town in West Yorkshire takes it's name from the Latin for ""Broken Bridge""?" A: PONTEFRACT
Q: What is the name of the Italian dessert that can vary with ingredients but mainly consists of coffee-soaked biscuit layered with sweetened cream? A: TIRAMISU
Q: Taking office on May 4th 1979, who was Margaret Thatcher's first Chancellor of the Exchequer? A: GEOFFREY HOWE
Q: What is the name of the curved knife traditionally used by Gurkha soldiers? A: KUKRI
Q: "Designed in the USA and first created by knife maker James Black, which large knife, 6 to 24 inches in length frist became famous in an 1827 brawl that was entitled ""The Sandbar Fight""?" A: BOWIE KNIFE
Q: Taking office on May 27th 1993, who was margaret Thatcher's last Chancellor of the Exchequer? A: KENNETH CLARK
Q: "Which band in November 1984 reached number one in the UK charts with the record entitled ""I feel for you""?" A: CHAKA KHAN
Q: "Which band in June 1985 reached number one in the UK charts with the record ""Frankie""?" A: SISTER SLEDGE
Q: What do Americans call what we British call a car bumper? A: FENDER
Q: Sb is the chemical symbol for which element? A: ANTIMONY
Q: How many years of marriage are celebrated by a 'Lace' annivesary? A: 13
Q: Which 1948 Hitchcock film shares its name with a weapon in Cluedo? A: ROPE
Q: Which 1966 Beatles album shares its name with a weapon in Cluedo? A: REVOLVER
Q: Which motorway in England, just over 30 miles in length, runs just south of Preston through the major junction of the M6 and M61 motorways, past Darwin, Blackburn, Accrington, Burnley and ends at Colne? A: M65
Q: "Which actor who had starred in a previous show called ""Department S"" went on to have his own series in 1971 called ""Jason King""?" A: PETER WYNGARDE
Q: Which male tennis player appeared in the final of the US Open singles for eight consecutive years between 1982 and 1989? A: IVAN LENDL
Q: Which specific creatures are collectively called an 'unkindness'? A: RAVENS
Q: Usually held on the second Thursday in August, the annual carnival 'The Battle of the Flowers' takes place in which British dependency? A: JERSEY
Q: Who sang the theme song to the 1966 film 'Alfie', starring Michael Caine? A: CILLA BLACK
Q: The Oval Portrait in 1842, The Masque of the Red Death in 1842 and The Murders in the Rue Morgue in 1841, were all works by which famous American author and poet? A: EDGAR ALLAN POE
Q: Which motorway in England, just over 11 miles in length connects the seaside resort of Blackpool to the M6 near Preston? A: M55
Q: Who sang the theme song to the 1966 film 'Georgy Girl'? A: THE SEEKERS
Q: Which music festival that has been annually contested since 1994 and named after its main sponsor was originally held at Strathclyde Park in Scotland but since 1997 has used a disused airfield in Balado near Kincross in Perth and Kincross? A: T IN THE PARK
Q: Which specific creatures are collectively known as a 'Parliament'? A: OWLS
Q: Which male tennis player appeared in the final of the US Open for five consecutive years between 1974 and 1978? A: JIMMY CONNORS
Q: Now the national dish of Switzerland, what type of food is Cervelat? A: SAUSAGE
Q: Now the national dish of Georgia, what type of food is Khachapuri? A: BREAD
Q: Containing the name of a US state capital, which female sang the very first record on 'Top of the Pops' back in 1964? A: DUSTY SPRINGFIELD
Q: Deriving its name from an Icelandic word meaning erupt, what name is given to a natural hot spring that intermittently ejects a column of water and steam into the air? A: GEYSER
Q: Living from 1537 to 1608, Mary Arden (her maiden name) was the mother of which famous British playwright? A: WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
Q: Which word is used to describe any rock or soil material that has remained below zero degrees centigrade continuously for more than two years? A: PERMAFROST
Q: In which range of mountains are the two highest peaks Aconcagua and Ojos Del Salado? A: THE ANDES
Q: Which British author, born in Torquay on September 15th 1890 married her first husband Archibald who she divorced in 1928? She married her second husband Max Mallowan in 1930, a partnership that was to last for 46 years. A: AGATHA CHRISTIE
Q: Famed for her role in politics and born in 1921, what is the much more famous name of Anne Francis Robbins? A: NANCY REAGAN
Q: What five letter name was given to the implement of corporal punishment used mainly in Scottish schools that consisted of a strap of leather with one end split into a number of tails? A: TAWSE
Q: On a standard Monopoly board, which property makes up the orange set along with Vine Street and Marlborough Street? A: BOW STREET
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born on January 17th 1863 and is the only British Prime Minister to be born in Manchester? A: David LLOYD GEORGE
Q: Which jockey rode L'Escargot to victory in the 1975 Grand National? A: TOMMY CARBERRY
Q: Which common six letter word takes its name from the Greek meaning circle of animals? A: ZODIAC
Q: Which Thames attraction shares its name with a brand of Scotch Whisky that was introduced in 1923? A: CUTTY SARK
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born on December 29th 1809 and is the only British Prime Minister to be born in Liverpool? A: William GLADSTONE
Q: On a standard Monopoly board which property makes up the light blue set along with Euston Raod and Pentonville Road? A: THE ANGEL ISLINGTON
Q: Which common four letter word takes its name from the Greek meaning 'sound returned'? A: ECHO
Q: Which jockey rode Red Alligator to victory in the 1968 Grand National? A: BRIAN FLETCHER
Q: In which book of the New Testament does the parable of the good samaritan occur? A: LUKE
Q: Which ex-politician who lived from 1910 to 2002 had the nickname 'The Baroness of Blackburn'? A: BARBARA CASTLE
Q: Which ex Eastenders star won the award for the annually contested female 'Rear of the Year' in 1987? A: ANITA DOBSON
Q: In which Midlands town can you find a large shopping centre called Westfield Merry Hill? A: DUDLEY
Q: Which modern day country was known as Northern Rhodesia until 1964? A: ZAMBIA
Q: Which ex Coronation Street star won the award for the annually contested female 'Rear of the Year' award in 1996? A: TRACY SHAW
Q: Which chemical element, listed as number 77 in the periodic table takes its name from the Latin for the rainbow? A: IRIDIUM
Q: Which chemical element, listed as number 28 in the periodic table takes its name from a Swedish word meaning copper-coloured ore? A: NICKEL
Q: Played by Brian Hall, what was the name of the chef in TV's 'Faulty Towers'? A: TERRY
Q: Which is England's most southerly mainland city? A: TRURO
Q: In which English county are the towns of Kidderminster and Evesham? A: WORCESTER
Q: In which English county are the towns of Bridgewater and Glastonbury? A: SOMERSET
Q: Herbert Pocket and Bentley Drummle are characters that appear in which book by Charles Dickens? A: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Q: Although it can come in colourless varieties what is the usual colour of the drink Absinthe? A: GREEN
Q: Which brand of soap was advertised on TV as giving you 'that schoolgirl complexion'? A: PALMOLIVE
Q: First performed at the La Scala opera house in Milan in 1817, which peice of music by Rossini translates as La Gazza Ladra? A: THIEVING MAGPIE
Q: Who was the creator of the character Bob the Builder? A: KEITH CHAPMAN
Q: Give any year in the life of St Francis of Assisi. A: 1181 - 1226
Q: Which brand of bread was advertised with the slogan 'Bread with nowt taken out'? A: ALLINSON'S
Q: James Steerforth and Wilkins Macawber are characters from which book by Charles Dickens? A: DAVID COPPERFIELD
Q: Who, in 1934, was responsible for the creation of the children's book 'Mary Poppins'? A: P L TRAVERS
Q: Which golfer won the British Open Championship in 1975, 1977, 1980, 1982 and 1983? A: TOM WATSON
Q: Which piece of classical music by Richard Strauss is famous for being the soundtrack to the 1969 film '2001 A Space Odyssey'? A: ALSO SPRACH ZARATHUSTRA
Q: Helena is the captal of which US state? A: MONTANA
Q: Lansing is the capital of which US state? A: MICHIGAN
Q: In Greek mythology what was the name of the winged creatures famous for stealing all the food from the blind man Phineas? A: HARPIES
Q: What ten letter word is given to the fish of the Goby family which frequently leave the water to jump on land using their adapted front fins to do so? A: MUDSKIPPER
Q: Richard Wayne Penniman is the real name of which famous singer who was born on December 5th 1932? A: LITTLE RICHARD
Q: Which is the second most highly populated town on the Isle of Man, Douglas being the first? A: RAMSAY
Q: What two word name is commonly given to the heavy, slow moving lizard that grows up to two feet in length and along with the Mexican Beaded Lizard is the only venomous lizard that lives in North America? A: GILA MONSTER
Q: What is the second most highly populated town on the island of Anglesey, Holyhead being the first? A: LLANGEFNI
Q: Walden Robert Cassotto was the real name of which famous singer who died in December 1973 aged 37? A: BOBBY DARIN
Q: What ten letter word do Americans use to call what we British call a torch? A: FLASHLIGHT
Q: What eight letter word do americans use to call what we British call a dressing gown? A: BATHROBE
Q: Four letters of the Greek alphabet have a two letter name, Mu, Nu, Xi and which other, the 16th? A: PI
Q: Which Spanish romantic painter who lived from 1746 to 1828 was responsible for works such as 'The Parasol' in 1777, 'Duchess of Alba' in 1795 and 'Witches Sabbath' in 1789 amongst others? A: Francisco GOYA
Q: Hanged at Wandsworth prison in 1949 for killing six people, which British criminal was known as 'The Acid Bath Murderer'? A: John HAIG
Q: Which famous animated character, first seen in 1953 in a feature called 'Cat Tails for Two' was usually wearing an over-sized sombrero, white shirt and trousers and red kerchief? A: SPEEDY GONZALES
Q: The musical play 'Over the Rainbow' first shown in 2003 is a celebration of the life and music of which singer who died in 1996? A: EVA CASSIDY
Q: What name is given to the Roman Road that links the cities of Exeter and Lincoln? A: FOSSE WAY
Q: The annual Three Choirs Festival alternates between Gloucester, Worcester and which other cathedral? A: HEREFORD
Q: Which famous animated character, first seen in 1932, is portrayed as having a glass jaw? On occasions he has been knocked out by his rival's girlfriend and on other occasions even by her infant son. A: BLUTO
Q: Hanged at Bedford prison in 1962, which British criminal was responsible for the murder of scientist Michael Gregston in a lay-by in Bedfordshire? He claimed an alibi saying he had been in Rhyl on the night of the murder. A: JAMES HANRATTY
Q: Which Swiss painter who lived from 1879 to 1940 was responsible for works such as 'The Red Balloon' in 1922, 'Landscape with Yellow Birds' in 1923 and 'Around the Fish' in 1926? A: Paul KLEE
Q: Which venue in London hosts the annual Ideal Home Show? A: EARL'S COURT
Q: In which English town can you find a series of five roundabouts arranged in a circle known as The Magic Roundabout? In a 2009 poll by Britannica Rescue it was voted the 4th scariest junction in Britain. A: SWINDON
Q: The name of which Spanish newspaper translates as The Country? A: EL PAIS
Q: What was the name of the policewoman who was shot and killed outside the Libyan embassy in London on April 17th 1984? A: Yvonne FLETCHER
Q: Which English inventor was responsible for the introduction of the multi-spool spinning frame known as the Spinning Jenny in1764? A: JAMES HARGREAVES
Q: Which disease is also known as Pertussis? A: WHOOPING COUGH
Q: Which Welsh vocalist who lived from 1915 to 1998 married Roger Moore in 1953, a marriage that lasted until 1961 when Moore left her and moved in with Italian actress Luisa Mattioli? A: DOROTHY SQUIRES
Q: Which British inventor was responsible for the introduction of the rubber band in 1845? A: STEPHEN PERRY
Q: What was the name of the 40 year old policeman who on October 6th 1985 was killed during a series of riots on the Broadwater Farm housing estate in London? A: Keith BLAKELOCK
Q: Which American film actress, born in 1947, had a 14 year relationship with Clint Eastwood, starring with him in several films before splitting up in 1989? A: SONDRA LOCKE
Q: Which disease is also known as Variola? A: SMALL POX
Q: Which British pop group reached number one in the UK charts for the only time in their career on July 2nd 1977 with the song 'So You Win Again'? A: HOT CHOCOLATE
Q: Which American pop group reached number one in the UK charts for the only time in their career with the record 'When Will I See You Again'? A: THREE DEGREES
Q: Which actress played the jilted Baroness Elsa Schraeder in the film The Sound Of Music? A: ELEANOR PARKER
Q: What type of bird is a 'Silver Trumpeter'? A: SWAN
Q: What nationality was Marie Tussaud who founded the famous wax museum? A: SWISS
Q: Khartoum is the capital of which country? A: SUDAN
Q: Kampala is the capital of which country? A: UGANDA
Q: Who was the only non-English person to win the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award during the 1980's, he was an Irishman and achieved the feat in 1985? A: BARRY McGUIGAN
Q: Who won the Oscar for Best Film Director in 1986 for the film 'Out of Africa'? A: SIDNEY POLLACK
Q: What is the name of the National Lottery draw where players pick five numbers from a range of 1 to 39 and one number from a range of 1 to 14? A: THUNDERBALL
Q: A skillet is an alternative name for which cooking item? A: FRYING PAN
Q: In mythology, what was the name of the Greek Goddess of Wisdom? A: ATHENA
Q: What type of fruit or vegetable is a Howgate Wonder? A: APPLE
Q: In jazz music, what instrument was Dizzie Gillespie famous for playing? A: TRUMPET
Q: What type of fruit or vegetable is a Pentland Javelin? A: POTATO
Q: In mythology, what was the name of the Greek Goddess of Marriage and Birth? A: HERA
Q: What type of kitchen utensil is a ladle? A: SPOON
Q: What is the name of the National Lottery draw where players pick five main numbers which can be any number between 1 and 50, then the players selects two different lucky star numbers from a pool of eleven balls? A: EUROMILLIONS
Q: What was the surname of the East London gangsters, whose christian names were Charles and Eddie, who in the 1960's ran their own scrapyard business and were seen as the main rivals to the Kray twins? A: RICHARDSON
Q: Ex Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher now holds the position of Baroness of where? A: KESTEVEN
Q: Dubris is the Roman name for which coastal town in England? A: DOVER
Q: Which famous four part opera by Puccini ends with Musetta praying, Mimi dies, Schaunard discovers Mimi lifeless, Rodolfo cries Mimi's name in anguish and weeps helplessly? A: LA BOHEME
Q: "Which Scottish criminal, born in 1944 in Glasgow's Gorbals, was one of the city's leading gangland figures during the 1960's. In 1967 he was sentenced to 15 years in prison for murder. His autobiography and a TV show based on his life were entitles ""A Sense of Freedom""?" A: JIMMY BOYLE
Q: Isca Dumnoniorum is the Roman name for which southern city in England? A: EXETER
Q: Ex Prime Minister Tony Blair was a member of Parliament for which constituency from 1983 to 2007? A: SEDGEFIELD
Q: """The Camels are Coming"" published in 1932 was the first book that featured which popular children's hero created by W.E.Johns?" A: BIGGLES
Q: What was the name of the IRA hunger striker who died in 1981 after a 66 day hunger strike? A: BOBBY SANDS
Q: What was the name of the Irish intruder who in 1982 managed to gain access to the Queen's bedroom? A: MICHAEL FAGAN
Q: What was the name of the horse ridden by Herbert Jones that trampled and killed suffragette Emily Davison during the 1913 Derby? A: ANMER
Q: What was Bing Crosby's real first christian name? A: HARRY
Q: With a population of over 150,000 inhabitants, Trondheim is the third most highly populated city of which European country? A: NORWAY
Q: Which film starring Dustin Hoffman won the award for Best Picture Oscar for 1969? A: MIDNIGHT COWBOY
Q: What was Buster Keaton's real first name? A: JOSEPH
Q: Ridden by a policeman named George Scorey, what was the name of the white horse used to clear the Wembley pitch at the 1923 FA Cup Final between Bolton and West Ham? A: BILLIE
Q: Which film starring Robert De Niro won the Best Picture Oscar for 1978? A: THE DEERHUNTER
Q: What is the name of the traditional throwing game, popular in fairgrounds, that features the head of an old woman with a clay pipe in her mouth? A: AUNT SALLY
Q: Which famous novel of 1930 centres on the death of a character named Colonel Protheroe? A: MURDER AT THE VICARAGE
Q: With a population of over 170,000 inhabitants, Szeged is the third most highly populated city of which European country? A: HUNGARY
Q: Which comedy series, shown on Channel 4 in 2008 features four main characters called Will, Simon, Jay and Neil? A: THE INBETWEENERS
Q: The A12 road connects London to which coastal resort in Norfolk? A: GREAT YARMOUTH
Q: Which ex heavyweight boxing champion's last ever fight took place on June 11th 2006 and ended in a defeat by Ireland's Kevin McBride in Washington DC? A: MIKE TYSON
Q: "What was the name of the boy in the book ""The Railway Children"" who was brother to Roberta and Phillys?" A: PETER
Q: Which famous event that occurred on 30th January 1972 is sometimes called The Bogside massacre? A: BLOODY SUNDAY
Q: "In the book ""Tom Brown's Schooldays"" what was the name of the school bully that Tom and his friend Harry eventually defeat in a fight after enduring several months of bullying?" A: FLASHMAN
Q: Which ex heavyweight boxing champion's last ever fight took place on November 22nd 1998 and ended in a defeat by American Shannon Briggs in Atlantic City? A: GEORGE FOREMAN
Q: Stretching a total of 264 miles, which is New Zealand's longest river? A: WAIKATO
Q: What is the name of the thoroughfare that Harry Potter lived with his Uncle's family? A: PRIVET DRIVE
Q: What French word for a month of the year is the same as the English word for a planet? A: MARS
Q: Which is the most heavily populated city in China? A: SHANGHAI
Q: "The song ""Leaving on a jet plane"" was a number 1 hit for ""Peter, Paul and Mary"" in 1970. Which successful recording artist wrote this song?" A: JOHN DENVER
Q: Royal Chantenay is a variety of what fruit or vegetable? A: CARROT
Q: Which author created the crime solving character Lord Peter Wimsey? A: DOROTHY L. SAYERS
Q: Which author created the crime solving character Jane Tennyson? A: LYNDA LA PLANTE
Q: Champagne is a variety of what fruit or vegetable? A: RHUBARB
Q: "The song ""Mighty Quinn"" was a number 1 hit for ""Manfred Mann"" in 1968. Which successful recording artist wrote this song?" A: BOB DYLAN
Q: Which is the most heavily populated city in Brazil? A: SAO PAULO
Q: There are only three coniferous trees native to the British Isles. The Scots Pine and the Yew are two native species, what is the third? A: JUNIPER
Q: In which battle of 1513 was the Scottish king James IV killed? A: FLODDEN
Q: Before 1966 the Republic of Botswana was a protectorate of the British Government and was known as what? A: BECHUANALAND
Q: Maggie Pollit and her husband Brick were the central characters in which classic play and later film A: CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF
Q: "Which two words complete the old proverb, ""Dilligence is the mother of ........... ?" A: GOOD LUCK
Q: The results of the 2012 RSPB national survey of birds shows the House Sparrow to be the most common bird to be seen in the UK. What is the second most common bird to be seen in the UK overall? A: STARLING
Q: The House Sparrow was also found to be the most commonly seen bird in Wales and in Wrexham. The second most commonly seen bird to be seen in Wales and in Wrexham was not the Starling, whay was it? A: BLUE TIT
Q: Near which local village does the river Gwenfro rise? A: BWLCHGWYN
Q: Which coniferous species of tree now found in Britain, introduced from other countries, is unique in that it sheds its yellow needles in Autumn, making it Britain's only deciduous conifer? A: LARCH
Q: In the Beijing Olympics Britain did particularly well in swimming and cycling but in other sports less well. Louis Smith won a Bronze medal, but was our only medal winner in which sport? A: GYMNASTICS
Q: Born in Holland, who is regarded as the finest woodworker to have worked in England. Noted for his Baroque garlands of still life framing mirrors and doorways, examples of his workmanship are seen in many buildings including St Paul's, Hampton Court and Bleheim palaces. A: GRINLING GIBBONS
Q: In which battle of 1403 was Henry Percy, known as Hotspur, killed? A: SHREWSBURY
Q: Before 1966, the kingdom of Lesotho was a British crown colony with what name? A: BASUTOLAND
Q: Jimmy Porter and his wife Alison were the central characters in which classic play and later film? A: LOOK BACK IN ANGER
Q: "Which two words complete the old proverb, ""A mackerel sky is never ......?" A: LONG DRY
Q: "ANAGRAMS - Which country is an anagram of the female film star famous mostly for her roles in ""When Harry met Sally"" and ""Sleepless in Seattle""?" A: GERMANY
Q: "Sporting firsts - Who was the first British cyclist to win the ""green jersey"" in the Tour de France? (The green jersey is for the leader in the points classification and is awarded to the champion sprinter)" A: MARK CAVENDISH
Q: Ian Huntley was convicted of the murders of two schoolgirls in 2002. In waht village did the murders take place? A: SOHAM
Q: Which general introduced martial law in Poland in 1981? A: JARUZELSKI
Q: "Which group had number 1 hits in the 1980's with ""It's a sin"", ""Heart"" and "" Always on my mind""?" A: PET SHOP BOYS
Q: "The film director Oliver Stone won 2 ""Best Director"" oscars. His first in 1987 was for ""Platoon"". His second, in 1990, was for what film?" A: BORN ON THE 4th OF JULY
Q: In the chemical Periodic Table how many chemical elements are included in the group reffered to as the Halogens? A: 5
Q: In the chemical Periodic Table how many chemical elements are included in the group reffered to as the Noble Gases? A: 6
Q: "The film director Milos Foreman won 2 ""Best Director"" oscars. His first in 1976 was for ""One flew over the Cuckoos Nest"". His second, in 1985, was for what film?" A: AMADEUS
Q: "Sporting Firsts - Who was the first golfer for 35 years to achieve an ""albatross"" at the US Masters tournament this year? (an albatross is a score of three under par at any hole)" A: LOUIS OOSTHUIZEN
Q: Timothy McVeigh was executed in the United States in 2001 for a bombing atrocity in which 168 people were killed and over 800 injured. In which state capital city did the atrocity take place? A: OKLAHOMA CITY
Q: Who was the East German leader tried for high treason in 1993? A: Erich HONECKER
Q: "Which food item is named after the Tamil word for ""pepper water""?" A: MULLIGATAWNY
Q: "Which group had number one hits in the seventies with ""Tiger Feet"", ""Lonely this Christmas"" and ""Oh Boy""?" A: MUD
Q: "Which Italian composer who wrote church music, string quartets and symphonies, ws noted mainly for his many operas, among which were ""Anne Boleyn"" and ""Lucretia Borgia""? He was born in Bergamo and joined the Austrian army at the end of the Napoleonic era." A: DONIZETTI
Q: On this day, April 17th, in 1961, which infamous conflict took place in the Caribbean with major immediate political repercussions? A: BAY OF PIGS
Q: The tombs of almost all British monarchs are located within the UK. One of the few exceptions is William I (The Conqueror). Near which French town or city is his burial place? A: CAEN
Q: What is the name of the Scottish systems administrator, accused by the USA of computer hacking into US Army systems and currently fighting against extradition? A: Gary McKINNON
Q: Which is the largest landlocked country in the world with an area of over a million square miles? A: KAZAKHSTAN
Q: What is the largest landlocked state in the USA with an area of just under 150,000 square miles? A: MONTANA
Q: The tombs of almost all Britih monarchs are located within the UK. One of the few exceptions is George I. Near which German town or city is his burial place? A: HANOVER
Q: Graphology is the study of what? A: HANDWRITING
Q: Which is the world's deepest lake? A: LAKE BAIKAL
Q: "Who joined Roy Jenkins, Bill Rogers and Shirley Williams as the Social Democrats ""Gang of Four""?" A: DAVID OWEN
Q: "Which politician was the first rail fatality, killed under the wheels of Stephenson's ""Rocket"" in 1830?" A: WILLIAM HUSKISSON
Q: Which was the first newspaper to have a crossword? A: DAILY EXPRESS
Q: Numbers - how many lines are in a limerick ? A: 5
Q: Numbers - how many lines are in a sonnet ? A: 14
Q: "In ""Les Miserables"", what is the name of the policeman who continually tracks down the hero Jean Valjean ?" A: JAVERT
Q: Which world famous hotel shares its' name with a type of cabbage ? A: SAVOY
Q: Which world famous hotel shares its' name with a biscuit ? A: RITZ
Q: "In ""Les Miserables"", what is the name of the little orphan girl adopted by the hero Jean Valjean ?" A: COSETTE
Q: Prime Minister Harold McMillan had what Christian name, although he preferred to be known by his middle name, Harold ? A: MAURICE
Q: "In which T.V. Detective series did ""Charlie Hungerford"" appear ?" A: BERGERAC
Q: "The controversial book ""The Naked Ape"" appeared in 1967. Who was the author ?" A: DESMOND MORRIS
Q: Which city is the most easterly in Australia ? A: BRISBANE
Q: What was the Roman name for Scotland ? A: CALEDONIA
Q: "At the recent Cheltenham festival, the horse ""Bob's Worth"" won the Cheltenham Gold cup. Who trains this horse ?" A: NICKY HENDERSON
Q: "At the recent Cheltenham festival, the horse ""Hurricane Fly"" won the Champion hurdle. Who trains this horse ?" A: WILLIE MULLINS
Q: "In which T.V. Detective series did ""DCI Michael Jardine"" appear ?" A: TAGGART
Q: "The controversial book ""The Female Eunuch"" appeared in 1970. Who was the author ?" A: GERMAINE GREER
Q: In cooking, to what ingredient is AGAR AGAR a vegetarian alternative ? A: GELATIN
Q: "Which famous western movie ends with the line :- ""The old man was right- only the farmers won. We lost. We will always lose "" ?" A: THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN
Q: Which is the southernmost city in Australia ? A: HOBART
Q: What was the Roman name for Ireland ? A: HIBERNIA
Q: Of the numbers from 1 to 12, which would score highest on plain squares as a word in the game of scrabble ? A: TWELVE
Q: Of the months of the year, which would score highest on plain squares as a word in the game of scrabble ? A: JANUARY
Q: Which country produces 70 % of all European olive oil ? A: GREECE
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""Les Troyens"" ?" A: BERLIOZ
Q: In the electromagnetic spectrum, which type of wavelength has the longest wavelength. It's main uses are in communication. A: RADIO WAVES
Q: "Which chemical element, discovered in 1898 by Ramsay and Travers was given a Greek name associated with ""new thing"" ?" A: NEON
Q: The battle for Stalingrad was one of the turning points of the second world war. Who was the commander of the Russian forces in this battle ? A: Marshall ZHUKOV
Q: Which guitarist was awarded an O.B.E. In January 1995 ? A: ERIC CLAPTON
Q: "In Italy, if you were served ""Pomodori"", what foodstuff would you be about to eat ?" A: TOMATOES
Q: Which country produces more than 50 % of all Europe's rice ? A: ITALY
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""Dido and Aeneas"" ?" A: PURCELL
Q: In the electromagnetic spectrum, which type of wavelength has shortest wavelength. Its main uses are in medical diagnosis. A: GAMMA WAVES
Q: "Which Irish actor, born in Dublin, starred in the movies ""in Bruges"" ""Fright Night"" and ""Total Recall"" ?" A: COLIN FARRELL
Q: Who is the President of Argentina ? A: CRISTINA KIRCHNER
Q: What type of animal is a GAVIAL ? A: CROCODILE
Q: What type of animal is a GALAGO ? A: BUSH BABY
Q: "The trilogy of comedy plays known as ""The Norman Conquests"" were written by which playwright ?" A: ALAN AYCKBOURN
Q: In 1314, Robert the Bruce and a small Scottish army inflicted a massive defeat on a huge English army at Bannockburn. Who was the leader of the English forces ? A: EDWARD II
Q: "Who was the German painter and sculptor who was a founder of the surrealist movement ? Among his works are ""The Elephant Celebes"" and "" Le Grand Amoreux""." A: MAX ERNST
Q: "The highly acclaimed stage comedy ""Noises Off"" was written by which playwright ?" A: MICHAEL FRAYN
Q: "When asked about the role of Prime Minister, which 20th century prime minister replied ""The main essentials required for this job are sleep and a sense of history"" ?" A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: The chrysanthemum is the national symbol for which country ? A: JAPAN
Q: "Who played Wanda in the film ""A fish called Wanda"" ?" A: JAMIE LEE CURTIS
Q: What is the S.I. Unit of radioactivity ? A: BECQUEREL
Q: Horse racing - Welsh trainer Evan Williams trained which horse to come second in the 2013 Grand National ? A: CAPPA BLEU
Q: Horse racing - Welsh trainer Rebecca Curtis trained which horse to come third in the 2013 Grand National ? A: TEAFORTHREE
Q: From which of Shakespeare's plays does this quotation come :- We happy few, we band of brothers ? A: HENRY V
Q: Which gland, secreting various hormones essential for growth and other bodily functions, is situated in the brain ? A: PITUITARY
Q: "Which female singer had a number 1 hit record with ""I Feel Love"" which topped the charts in July 1977 ?" A: DONNA SUMMER
Q: "Which female singer had a number 1 hit record with ""I'll never fall in love again""which topped the charts in August 1969 ?" A: BOBBY GENTRY
Q: Which gland, secreting a hormone affecting circulation and muscular action, is situated above the kidneys ? A: ADRENAL
Q: From which of Shakespeare's plays does this quotation come :- The course of true love never did run smooth ? A: A MIDSUMMERNIGHT'S DREAM
Q: In which classic T.V. crime series did Captain Frank Furillo appear ? A: HILL STREET BLUES
Q: Rugby union - for which club team do England internationals Stevens, Farrell and Vunipola play ? A: SARACENS
Q: Which predatory insect, with two pairs of large transparent wings, that are spread while resting, can fly the fastest ? The Australian variety can reach a speed of 36 mph ? A: DRAGONFLY
Q: "Millionaire businessman Alan Sugar hosts the BBC's popular reality show ""The Apprentice"". This show was adapted from the original U.S. Show, where it was hosted by which millionaire businessman ?" A: DONALD TRUMP
Q: An Ipsos MORI survey carried out this year showed politicians to have the lowest level of trust of any occupation in the U.K. What percentage of people trusted politicians in general to tell the truth. ( accept within + or - 5 % ) ? A: 18%
Q: "Who was the winner of the U.K.'s 2010 ""Apprentice"" series, who recently lost a claim of constructive dismissal against Alan Sugar, after resigning and saying she had been treated like an ""overpaid lackey"" ?" A: STELLA ENGLISH
Q: In which classic T.V. crime series did Chief Superintendant Lockhart appear ? A: NO HIDING PLACE
Q: Rugby union - for which club team do England internationals Care, Easter and Robshaw play ? A: HARLEQUINS
Q: Which large insect, with transparent wings held roof-like over its back, and noted for the loud shrill chirping of the males, has a life-cycle of 13 to 17 years ? A: CICADA
Q: James Stewart played the character Elwood P. Dowd in which classic 1950 film ? A: HARVEY
Q: In 1862, the Guinness company adopted the harp as its' advertising logo. From 1935 till 1982 what creature was adopted as the main Guinness advertising symbol, becoming as synonymous with Guinness as the harp? A: TOUCAN
Q: "Which British king, famous for his string of mistresses, had an arranged marriage to Caroline of Brunswick ? His first words to her were ""I am not well, pray get me a glass of Brandy"". He did not accede to the throne until he was 57, when he was described as a ""bloated ruin""." A: GEORGE IV
Q: Which surname is shared by an American Jazz Singer and an American author ? ( It was also the middle name of an American president.) A: FITZGERALD
Q: What surname is shared by a member of the cabinet and of the shadow cabinet ? A: ALEXANDER
Q: Which is the most Northerly, and largest, island of the Phillipines, on which stands the capital, Manila ? A: LUZON
Q: Geology - what word is used to describe rocks formed from volcanoes or from magma within the earth's crust ? A: IGNEOUS
Q: "What songwriting partnership, wrote more than 20 hit records, with several of their songs becoming number 1 hits on both sides of the Atlantic, including ""Hound Dog"" , ""Jailhouse Rock"" and Stand by Me ?" A: LIEBER AND STOLLER
Q: "Now among the most praised and prolific people in the film industry, who made his screen acting debut in ""What's New Pussycat"" in 1965 ?" A: WOODY ALLEN
Q: "On the ""Sunday Times"" rich list for 2013, who will again top the list in the ""under 30"" music rich list with a personal fortune of £30 million ?" A: ADELE
Q: Which is the most Northerly of the islands of Japan ? It's capital, Sapporo has hosted the winter olympics. A: HOKKAIDO
Q: Geology - what word is used to describe rocks formed from sand, mud or silt deposited by wind and water ? A: SEDIMENTARY
Q: "What songwriting partnership, wrote more than 20 hit records, with several of their songs becoming number 1 hits on both sides of the Atlantic, including ""Take good care of my Baby"", ""Will you love me Tomorrow"" and ""The Loco-motion"" ?" A: GOFFIN AND KING
Q: Zabaglione is an Italian dessert made from eggs, sugar and which fortified wine ? A: MARSALA
Q: Which British male athlete won an olympic gold medal in London 2012, at age 24 winning the Triathlon event ? A: ALISTAIR BROWNLEE
Q: In what decade was the Scottish National party founded ? A: 1930's
Q: "Now among the most praised and honoured people in the film industry, who made his screen acting debut in ""Sunday, Bloody Sunday"" in 1971 ?" A: DANIEL DAY LEWIS
Q: "The following lines are from a famous poem by Stevie Smith :- ""Nobody heard him, the dead man But still he lay moaning I was much further out than you thought"" What is the title of the poem ?" A: NOT WAVING BUT DROWNING
Q: "The following lines are from a famous poem by W.H.Auden :- ""Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone, Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone, Silence the pianos with muffled drum"" What is the title of the poem ?" A: FUNERAL BLUES
Q: Which 2 scientists discovered the structure of DNA, for which they were awarded the Nobel prize for Medicine in 1962 ? ( both surnames required ) A: CRICK AND WATSON
Q: In December 2012, in yet another American mass murder, 26 people (including 20 children) were killed in Newtown, Conneticut. What was the name of the 20 year old killer, who also shot himself ? A: ADAM LANZA
Q: Columbine high school was the setting in 199 for another mass murder. The elementary school in Newtown, Conneticut will be equally infamous. What is the name of the school ? A: SANDY HOOK
Q: "Name the composer, born in Moravia in 1854, whose works include :- The rhapsody ""Taras Bulba"" and the opera ""The Beginning of a romance""?" A: JANACEK
Q: In which Dickens novel would you find the characters :- Esther Summerson, Allan Woodcourt, and Harold Skimpole ? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: Christianity - the writers of the 27 books of the New Testament were all Jewish, with one exception. Who was the only Gentile, or non-Jewish , writer of the New Testament ? A: LUKE
Q: What is the world's largest island ? A: GREENLAND
Q: In which county of England would you find BERKELEY CASTLE ? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: In what novel would you find the Dashwood family ? A: SENSE AND SENSIBILITY
Q: On this day, Novenber 6th, 1860 who was elected as American President? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: On which river does Limerick stand? A: SHANNON
Q: "Which 1972 movie, Oscar nominated for best picture, was advertised by the tag-line ""Four men ride a wild river, a weekend turns into a nightmare""?" A: DELIVERANCE
Q: Formula 1 - On which racetrack was the World Champion Jim Clark killed? A: HOCKENHEIM
Q: Which name links that of a cricket commentator with a Bond villain? A: BLOFELD
Q: Which Rogers and Hart musical was based on Shaespeare's Comedy of Errors? A: THE BOYS FROM SYRACUSE
Q: Which North Wales town is included in the name of a pop star who had a Number One hit with It's Only Make Believe in 1958? A: CONWAY
Q: Selcuk (pronounced SELCHOOK) - a Turkish town, is home to one of the seven ancient wonders of the world. What was the city's name in ancient times? A: EPHESUS
Q: Bodrum - a Turkish town, is home to one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. What was its name in ancient times? A: HALICARNASSUS
Q: "Who is the Chairman of the ""BBC Trust"", the overseeing body of the BBC?" A: CHRIS PATTEN
Q: Which name links a Yorkshire power station with a Bond villain? A: DRAX
Q: Which helicopter, manufactured by Sikorsky has been commonly used by US forces in combat areas over the last thirty years? A: BLACK HAWK
Q: Which Cole Porter musical was based on Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew? A: KISS ME KATE
Q: How many American states begin with the letter A ? A: 4
Q: How many american states begin with the letter W ? A: 4
Q: Which Iain Banks novel has the name of a bird in the title? The book was also made into a television series. A: THE CROW ROAD
Q: "Which British composer wrote the music used as the theme for Desert Island Discs ? He also wrote the ""Dambusters"" march and the ""Knightsbridge"" march." A: ERIC COATES
Q: "Which French artist painted ""Cotton-brokers Office"", ""L'Absinthe"" and ""Dancer at the bar""?" A: DEGAS
Q: "What insect acts as the transmitting agent in the spread of the infectious disease ""Bubonic Plague""?" A: FLEA
Q: The element of the Periodic Table HAFNIUM has its name derived from the Latin name for the city in which it was discovered. Which city? A: COPENHAGEN
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister during the War of American Independence? He was blamed for the inept policy and military failures leading to the loss of the American colonies? A: LORD NORTH
Q: "Written in honour of his friend Arthur Hallam, the poem, ""In Memoriam"" was published in 1850. Who was the author of this poem, who was appointed Poet Laureate in the same year?" A: TENNYSON
Q: "Composed as an elegy following the death of his friend John Keats, the poem ""Adonais"" was written in 1821 by which poet?" A: SHELLEY
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister who reluctantly involved his country in the Crimean War and was subsequently blamed for its mismanagement and obliged to resign? A: LORD ABERDEEN
Q: "Which British composer wrote the music used as the theme for the BBC coverage of the London Marathon? He also composed ""633 Squadron"" and the Miss Marple theme." A: RON GOODWIN
Q: "Which French artist painted ""Haystacks"", ""Rouen Cathedral"" and ""Sunrise""?" A: MONET
Q: "Which insect acts as the transmitting agent in the spread of the infectious disease ""Sleeping Sickness""?" A: TSETSE FLY
Q: Football - former Italian star Paulo de Canio became manager of which football club in 2011 ? A: SWINDON
Q: The element of the Periodic Table LUTETIUM has its name derived from the Latin name for the city in which is was discovered. Which city? A: PARIS
Q: "ANAGRAMS - Which sport is the link between the follwing anagrams of two famous Americans? ""MERGE OF ORANGE"" and ""MONKEY SIT""." A: BOXING
Q: What was the name of the German terrorist gang of the 1970s and 80s? With a Marxist ideology they committed over thirty murders and around 300 bomb attacks. A: BAADER MEINHOF
Q: What was the name of the Italian terrorist gang of the 1970s and 80s? With a Marxist ideology they committed many crimes and murders, including that of Prime Minister Aldo Moro. A: RED BRIGADE
Q: One of the most successful children's TV shows of all time was The Magic Roundabout. Which French animator created the show? A: SERGE DANOT
Q: Who created several children's shows for TV, including Bagpuss, Ivor the Engine and Noggin the Nog? A: OLIVER POSTGATE
Q: "The pop group ""Madness"" had over 20 hit records in the top twenty. What was their only Number One?" A: HOUSE OF FUN
Q: "The pop group ""Simply Red"" had over 20 hit records in the top twenty. What was their only Number One?" A: FAIRGROUND
Q: Bourbon whiskey is named after a county in which US state? A: KENTUCKY
Q: "The status of which planet in the Solar System was changed in 2006 by the International Astronomic Union when it was re-classified as a ""dwarf planet"" ?" A: PLUTO
Q: Who developed the first suvvessful vaccine for Smallpox ? A: Edward JENNER
Q: Who was the chief executive of RBS bank who resigned in 2009, a month before RBS announced a loss of £24 billion, the largest loss in UK corporate history ? A: FRED GOODWIN
Q: The classic novel by Emile Zola about a French coalminers strike in the 1860's had what title ? A: GERMINAL
Q: Who was the chief executive of Barclays bank who resigned in July 2012 after Barclays had been severely fined for fixing LIBOR rates ? A: BOB DIAMOND
Q: Who developed the first successful vaccine for Polio ? A: Jonas SALK
Q: Which planet in the Solar System is closest to earth in size and mass ? A: VENUS
Q: "The pop group ""The Small Faces"" had 11 top twenty records in the 60s and 70s but only one number one hit - what was it ?" A: ALL OR NOTHING
Q: What is the second biggest city in Libya ? A: BENGHAZI
Q: In what year was the first Eurovision Song Contest held ? A: 1956
Q: Which French scientist (1736 -1806) is best known for his law of electrostatic force and gives his name to the unit of electric charge ? A: COULOMB
Q: In French, what bird is known as Aloutte ? A: LARK
Q: "Which car manufacturer, based in Asia, was named as ""Best Car Manufacturer"" of 2012 ?" A: KIA
Q: What is the name of the starch used for puddings which is obtained from the leaves of Palm trees ? A: SAGO
Q: What spice is obtained from grated hard aromatic seeds, sharing its name with the evergreen tree from which the seeds are obtained ? A: NUTMEG
Q: In what year was the first BBC Sports Personality if theYear held ? A: 1954
Q: "Which author created the fictional character ""Allan Quartermain"" ?" A: RIDER HAGGARD
Q: "The former Tory Chancellor Nigel Lawson called this institution ""The English Religion"". To what was he referring ?" A: THE NHS
Q: "Which creature hunts in family groups called ""pods"" and is the longest and fastest member of the dolphin family ?" A: KILLER WHALE or ORCA
Q: "The species name ""Fagus"" as in Fagus Sylvatica and Fagus Purpurea has the common English name for which tree ?" A: BEECH
Q: "The record ""Red Red Wine"" was a huge hit for the group UB40 reaching number one in the charts in both the UK and USA. Which singer wrote the song ?" A: NEIL DIAMOND
Q: John Newcombe was one half of a famous tennis pairing who were Wimbledon Doubles Champions three times. Who was his partner ? A: TONY ROCHE
Q: Which general, famous for his military exploits against the French in the Napoleonic Wars was born in Glasgow in 1761 and died in Spain in 1809 ? A: Sir John MOORE
Q: "Shakespeare coined which three word phrase in the play ""Othello"" which has become a commonly used cliche for Jealousy ?" A: GREEN EYED MONSTER
Q: Golf - Which Australian golfer won the 1960 British Open, beating Arnold Palmer into second place ? A: KEL NAGLE
Q: "Who painted ""Girl reading a letter"" ?" A: Jan VERMEER
Q: The species name Picea as in Picea Abies and Picea Sitchensis has the common English name for which tree ? A: SPRUCE
Q: Bob Hewitt was one half of a famous tennis pairing who were Wimbledon Double Champions three times. Who was his partner ? A: FREW McMILLAN
Q: Which general, famous for his military exploits against the French in the Napoleonic Wars, was born in St Petersburg in 1745 and died in Russia in 1813 ? A: Mikhail KUTUZOV
Q: Which region of France is bordered by Spain to the south and by the Bay of Biscay to the west ? A: AQUITANE
Q: "In 2012, who was elected as ""General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party"" and will serve as the leader of China until 2022, arguably becoming the most powerful man in the world ?" A: XI JINPING
Q: "Which poet laureate wrote the poems ""Mount Zion"", ""New bats in old belfries"" and ""A nip in the air"" ?" A: JOHN BETJEMAN
Q: Shostakovish's symphony number 2 has the name of which month ? A: OCTOBER
Q: Vaughan Williams's symphony number 7 has the name of which continent ? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: "Which poet laureate wrote the poems ""the hawk in the rain"", Moortown"" and ""Birthday letters"" ?" A: TED HUGHES
Q: Who is the Prime Minister of Italy ? A: MARIO MONTI
Q: "Which Italian composer wrote the film music for the movies ""A fistful of dollars"", ""The good, the bad and the ugly"" and ""The mission"" ?" A: Enrico MORRICONE
Q: "In 1958 what was the first airline to fly a jet airliner ""The Comet"" across the Atlantic ?" A: BOAC
Q: "In which sport would you find a ""brakeman"" ?" A: BOBSLEIGH
Q: The name of which chemical element of the Periodic Table ends with the letters ALT ? A: COBALT
Q: Which is the only Shakespeare play with an animal on the title ? A: THE TAMING OF THE SHREW
Q: In 1958 a film called 'The Matchmaker' was released starring Anthony Perkins and Shirley McLaine. Based on a Thornton Wilder play it was later remade, in 1969, as what musical ? A: HELLO DOLLY
Q: In the classic TV comedy series 'Men Behaving Badly', what were the first names of the to men ? A: GARY AND TONY
Q: In 1940 a film called 'The Philadelphia Story' was released starring Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn and James Stewart. Based on a Philip Barry play it was later remade, in 1956, as what musical ? A: HIGH SOCIETY
Q: Which is the only Shakespeare play with a British place name in the title ? A: THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR
Q: "Which French phrase meaning "" a decisive action which ends a troubled enterprise"", literally translates as ""blow of mercy"" ?" A: COUP DE GRACE
Q: Cricket - which West Indian was the first to play in 100 test matches ? A: CLIVE LLOYD
Q: "The ""Goldwing"" is a famous motor-cycle model, produced by which company ?" A: HONDA
Q: Which T.V. Quiz show host used the catchphrase :- I mean that most sincerely, friends ? A: HUGHIE GREEN
Q: The capital of Morocco is Rabat. What was its former capital ? A: MARRAKESH
Q: The pop group Ultravox were very popular in the 80's . How many number 1 hit records did they have ? A: NONE
Q: "Which fashion house markets the perfume ""Addict"" ?" A: CHRISTIAN DIOR
Q: What is the world's largest poisonous snake, at up to 5 metres long ? A: KING COBRA
Q: What is the world's most widespread poisonous snake ? It is found in most of Europe and Northern Asia to the Pacific coast ? A: ADDER
Q: "Which French phrase meaning "" freedom of action"" literally translates as ""blank sheet of paper"" ?" A: CARTE BLANCHE
Q: Cricket - which Indian was the first to play in 100 test matches ? A: SUNIL GAVASKAR
Q: "The ""Electraglide"" is a famous motor-cycle model, produced by which company ?" A: HARLEY DAVIDSON
Q: The capital of Uganda is Kampala. What was its former capital ? A: ENTEBBE
Q: The pop group UB40 were very popular in the 80's and early 90's. How many number 1 hit records did they have ? A: 3
Q: "Which fashion house markets the perfume ""Elle"" ?" A: YVES SAINT LAURENT
Q: On this day, February 19th.in 1897, Mrs. Hoodless of Ontario, Canada founded which well - known organisation ? A: THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTE
Q: On this day, February 19th. In 1906 , The Battle Creek company of Michigan introduced onto the market which well-known foodstuff ? A: CORN FLAKES
Q: In which country is Lake Disappointment ? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: London landmarks - Which building was built principally for the Great Exhibition held in London in 1851 ? A: THE CRYSTAL PALACE
Q: Tennis - What became the first brother and sister team to win the Wimbledon mixed doubles championship in 1981 ? A: JOHN AND TRACY AUSTIN
Q: What is the name of Sherlock Holmes's housekeeper ? A: MRS HUDSON
Q: What was thename of Alexander the Great's horse , said to have been given to him by his father King Philip, after Alexander succeeded in taming the horse ? A: BUCEPHALUS
Q: Above which number on a computer keyboard is the Pound sign ? A: 3
Q: Margaret Thatcher, prime minister from 1979 to 1990, served as M.P. For which constituency ? A: FINCHLEY
Q: John Major, prime minister from 1990 to 1997, served as M.P. For which constituency ? A: HUNTINGDON
Q: Above which number on a computer keyboard is the Percentage sign ? A: 5
Q: In which country is Fiordland National park, established in 1952 and one of the largest in the world ? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: "Horse racing - which jockey, in the top 10 ""flat racing"" jockeys of 2012 in Britain, with 72 winners, is unique in that he swiched from being a ""jump jockey"". In national hunt racing , he had won most of the top races, including the Grand National in 2004 on ""Amberleigh House ?" A: GRAHAM LEE
Q: London landmarks - What was built to stage the British Empire Exhibition held in London in 1925 ? A: WEMBLEY STADIUM
Q: Tennis - Who was the first black person to win a Wimbledon championship, in 1957 ? A: ALTHEA GIBSON
Q: In the Sherlock Holmes stories, what is Doctor Watson's first name ? A: JOHN
Q: Which 17th century English ruler re-admitted Jews to the country ? A: OLIVER CROMWELL
Q: "Which group won the BRIT award for ""Best British single record"" in the years 1993, 1994 and 1996 ?" A: TAKE THAT
Q: "Which singer won the BRIT award for ""Best British single record"" in the years 1999, 2000 and 2001 ?" A: ROBBIE WILLIAMS
Q: What undersea rail tunnel, 33.5 miles long is the longest operational underground railway tunnel in the world ? It was completed in 1988 and connects the islands of Honshu and Hokkaido in Japan. A: SEIKAN Tunnel
Q: A Royal Society report of 1713 found in favour of Isaac Newton, in a long running dispute with which mathematician over the invention of Calculus ? A: GOTTFRIED LIEBNITZ
Q: In what opera does Police Chief Scarpia appear ? A: TOSCA
Q: The Swiss have completed construction of which underground rail tunnel which is over 35 miles long ? This tunnel will provide a railway link through the Alps and will become operational in 2017. A: GOTTHARD Tunnel
Q: What is the name of the substance obtained from the dried bladders of fish, used in brewing and wine-making ? A: ISINGLASS
Q: In which Eastern Mediterranean country is the city of Tyre ? A: LEBANON
Q: """They also serve who only stand and wait"" is the last line of a sonnet by which English poet ?" A: JOHN MILTON
Q: What type of foodstuff is a MOREL ? A: MUSHROOM
Q: What type of foodstuff is a MORELLO ? A: CHERRY
Q: In the periodic table of elements, which chemical element would come last alphabetically ? A: ZIRCONIUM
Q: "Which comedian had a top ten hit record in 1958 with the record ""Splish Splash"" ?" A: CHARLIE DRAKE
Q: What is the anthem of the European Union ? A: ODE TO JOY
Q: Who took over the important position of Pope in 2013 ? A: JORGE BERGOGLIO
Q: What is the national anthem of Australia ? A: ADVANCE AUSTRALIA FAIR
Q: "In the periodic table of elements, which chemical element is the only one to begin with the letter ""V"" ?" A: VANADIUM
Q: "Which American pop group, who did not reach the number 1 spot in the U.K., had their most successful number 1 hit in America with ""Livin' on a Prayer"" in 1986 ?" A: BON JOVI
Q: "T.V. Sitcoms - What was the name of ""The Vicar of Dibley"", played by Dawn French ?" A: GERALDINE GRAINGER
Q: "Which Welsh author, born in Newport, has written over 30 books, including ""The Virgin Soldiers"", ""The Last Detective"" and ""Ormerod's Landing"" ?" A: LESLIE THOMAS
Q: Who was Margaret Thatcher's most famous press secretary ? A: BERNARD INGHAM
Q: "In a John Betjeman poem, what lady was... ""burnished by the Aldershot sun"" ?" A: JOAN HUNTER DUNN
Q: "Geography - which ""Strait"" in the North Atlantic lies between Greenland and Iceland ?" A: DENMARK STRAIT
Q: "Which American pop group, who did not reach the number 1 spot in the U.K., had a number 1 hit in America with ""Sweet Child O' Mine"" in 1988 ?" A: GUNS 'N' ROSES
Q: "T.V. Sitcoms - What was the name of the lead character, the time traveller, played by Nicholas Lyndhurst in ""Goodnight Sweetheart"" ?" A: GARY SPARROW
Q: In baseball, how many players are in a team ? A: 9
Q: In baseball, how many innings are in a match ? A: 9
Q: "Thick footballers ? Which Chelsea footballer has an I.Q. Of over 150. He is an ex-public schoolboy who obtained 12 GCSE's, including an ""A star"" in Latin ?" A: FRANK LAMPARD
Q: What was the Roman name for Wales ? A: CAMBRIA
Q: Much in the news at budget time,exactly what body is known by the acronym OBR ? A: OFFICE for BUDGET RESPONSIBILITY
Q: In which city would you find Frederic Chopin airport ? A: WARSAW
Q: "What Chinese dish is described as ""meat-filled dumplings"" ?" A: WONTON
Q: What is the second largest castle in England and Wales ? A: CAERPHILLY
Q: Alphabetically speaking, which British prime minister of the 20th century would come first ? A: ASQUITH
Q: Thick footballers ? Which Liverpol footballer is currently halfway through a Maths degree course with the Open University ? A: GLEN JOHNSON
Q: Much in the news at budget time,exactly what body is known by the acronym IFS ? A: INSTITUTE for FISCAL STUDIES
Q: "What Japanese dish is described as ""beef and vegetables in soy sauce"" ?" A: SUKIYAKI
Q: Which Welsh town is near to the old Roman fort of Segontium ? A: CAERNARFON
Q: What is the world's highest capital city, at a height of 11,942 feet ? A: LA PAZ
Q: What is the Europe's highest capital city, at a height of 1,929 feet ? A: MADRID
Q: Tennis - How many Wimbledon singles titles did Billie Jean King win? A: 6
Q: "Which Roman poet's most famous work is known simply as ""ODES"" ?" A: HORACE
Q: "Which Italian composer who lived from 1678 to 1741 was nicknamed ""The Red Priest"" after taking holy orders in 1703 ?" A: VIVALDI
Q: "Which Italian composer who lived from 1792 to 1868 was nicknamed ""Monsieur Crescendo"" ? He was a gourmet and had a famous meat dish named after him." A: ROSSINI
Q: The Co-operative acquired which building society in 2009 ? A: THE BRITANNIA
Q: Tennis - How many Wimbledon singles titles did Steffi Graf win? A: 7
Q: "Which Roman poet's famous work is known simply as ""SATIRES"" ?" A: JUVENAL
Q: Which unusually named bird fits the following description ? Found in Africa, this bird is 5 foot high, coloured grey and black with a distinctive crest above the head. It is long-legged and runs on the ground catching snakes and small mammals. A: SECRETARY BIRD
Q: Which unusually named bird fits the following description ? A black tropical seabird, having pointed wings with a span of 6 feet. They attack other birds , forcing them to disgorge fish and also catch flying fish as they leap out of the ocean. A: FRIGATE BIRD
Q: What country has 3 capital cities, depending on the function ? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Who wrote tyhe Barchester novels ? A: ANTHONY TROLLOPE
Q: Which playwright was born on this day on 1564 and died also on this day, on his 52nd birthday, in 1616 ? A: WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
Q: Which 73 year old King of Munster was killed at the Battleof Clontarf, near Dublin, on this day in 1014 ? A: BRIAN BORU
Q: On this day in 1993, in a UN backed referendum, Eritreans voted overwhelmingly in favour of independence from which country ? A: ETHIOPIA
Q: How old is former Mid-Ulster MP Bernadette Devlin today ? Is she 60, 62 or 66 ? A: 66
Q: What was the name of the son of Ethelred the Unready who was crowned King of England on this day in 1016, but died in November the same year, shortly after being defeated in battle by hios successor, Canute ? A: EDMUND
Q: On this day in 1968, the first two decimal coins were introduced in the UK. Name either of them. A: 5p and 10p
Q: On this day in 1941 the reigning monarch, King George II and his government left which European country as German troops invaded ? A: GREECE
Q: Born on this day in 1775, what was the first name of the painter JMW Turner? A: JOSEPH
Q: Based in Swindon, which is thge largest building society in the world ? A: NATIONWIDE
Q: What was the name of the cinema, situated next to the Seven Stars in Lampit Street which closed for business in 1956 ? A: EMPIRE
Q: In the UK a public limited company uses the initials plc after its name. According to the Companies Act (2006), which three letters can be used by similar firms in Wales ? A: ccc
Q: When Corporation Tax was first introduced in 1965, what was the basic rate? Was it 20%, 30% or 40% ? A: 40%
Q: What was the surname of the German chemist who, in 1867, established the chemical works in Cefn Mawr, which later became part of Monsanto and then Flexsys ? A: (Robert) GRAESSER
Q: Which soft drink manufacturer launched a new formula version of its most popular product in 1985, but withdrew it three months later after a massively negative reaction from the public ? A: COCA COLA
Q: Which 30 year old pop diva gave birth to daughter called Blue Ivy Carter on 7th January 2012 ? A: BEYONCE
Q: Which instrument did Larry Mullen Jr play in the band U2 ? A: DRUMS
Q: Loreen, singing Euphoria, won the 2012 Europvision Song Contest for which country ? A: SWEDEN
Q: """No more carefree laughter, Silence ever after"" are the opening lines of which Abba Number One hit ?" A: KNOWING ME, KNOWING YOU
Q: Released last month, People, Hell and Angels is a posthumous album made up of songs recorded by which artist in 1969 ? A: JIMI HENDRIX
Q: A cover of which Buddy Holly song gave glam rock band Mud their third and final UK Number One in 1975 ? A: OH BOY
Q: Which British pop star was born Jessica Ellen Cornish on March 27th 1988? A: JESSIE J
Q: Henry Charles Albert David are the christian names of which famous 28 year old ? A: PRINCE HARRY
Q: Later this year, Jonathon Sacks (aka the Lord Sacks) is due to retire from which religous position that he has held in Britain since 1991 ? A: CHIEF RABBI
Q: Cheers actress Rhea Perlman has been married to which Hollywood actor and comedian for over 30 years ? A: DANNY DE VITO
Q: In which city was London Mayor, Boris Johnson born ? Was it New York, Calcutta or Warsaw ? A: NEW YORK
Q: Which 73 year old world peace campaigner is to be the President of the 2013 Llangollen International Music Eisteddfod ? A: TERRY WAITE
Q: What is the first name of the mother of Jemima Khan and widow of Sir James Goldsmith, after whom one of London's most exclusive night clubs was named? A: ANNABEL
Q: Cristina Kirchner is currently the President of which South American country? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which celebrity chef is the owner of the three Michelin-starred restaurant, The Fat Duck, in Bray, Berkshire, which has been voted the Best Restaurant in the UK for the past six yearsby The Good Food Guide ? A: HESTON BLUMENTHAL
Q: Which Swedish actress has been married twice - to Peter Sellers in 1964 and to Slim Jim Phantom in 1984 ? A: BRITT EKLAND
Q: Who holds the record for the most Ladies Singles titles at Wimbledon, winning nine times between 1978 and 1990 ? A: MARTINA NAVRATILOVA
Q: Who trained a record 50th Cheltenham Festival winner last month, when his Bob's Worth won the Gold Cup ? A: NICKY HENDERSON
Q: Which ground in West London is shared by Harlequins (rugby union) and London Broncos (rugby league) ? A: (Twickenham) STOOP
Q: What natural phenomenon caused the late postponement of the third game of Baseball's World Series between San Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics ? A: EARTHQUAKE
Q: In which South African city is the Wanderers test ground ? A: JOHANNESBURG
Q: Limoges, Metz and Mulhouse are cities in which European country ? A: FRANCE
Q: In which country is Raciborz, which emtereed a twinning agreement with Wrexham County Borough Council in 2002 ? A: POLAND
Q: Which mountain range forms an arc that stretches from the Czech Republic inj the northwest to the border of Romania and Serbia in the south ? A: CARPATHIANS
Q: Ljubljana is the capital of which European country ? A: SLOVENIA
Q: Since the abolition of the monarchy in 1870, French Presidents have also automatically become co-princes of which independent Europian principality? A: ANDORRA
Q: Which colour is on the left of the three colours on the flag of Italy ? A: GREEN
Q: Which former Yugoslav state will become the 28th member of the European Union on July 1st this year ? A: CROATIA
Q: At 1,038 km long and emptying into the Atlantic Ocean at Lisbon, which is the longest river on the Iberian peninsula ? A: TAGUS
Q: Which two-word name is given to INVICTA, the symbol of Kent ? A: WHITE HORSE
Q: A white cross on a black background is the symbol and PRO UTILITATE HOMINUM is the motto of which organisation founded in 1877 and present at most large events held in Britain each year ? A: ST JOHN'S AMBULANCE BRIGADE
Q: Along which road from Capua to Rome were 6000 slaves crucified in 71BC after defeat in then Servile War led by Spartacus ? A: APPIAN WAY
Q: Named after the 16/17th century fancy collar that made a fortune for Robert Baker, which London street starts at Hyde Park Corner and ends at a famous statue ? It is the 6th most expensive property in Monopoly. A: PICADILLY
Q: The road from Paris to Montpellier passes over the highest bridge in the world, completed in 2004. Which river valley does it span ? A: TARN
Q: The southwest coastal footpath starts at Poole in Dorset. Going around Devon and Cornwall, at which West Somerset resort, famous for its Butlin's holiday camp, does it end 630 miles later ? A: MINEHEAD
Q: Ian, Gregory and Trevor are the grandsons of Vic Richardson. The four men nearly 200 caps between them in the 1920s, 30s, 70s and 80s. Give the surname of the three grandsons. A: CHAPPELL
Q: In October 2012 Trenton Oldfield was sentenced to 6 months in prison for going for a swim on Saturday, 7th April at 2.25pm. In which river was hge swimming ? A: THAMES
Q: Which letter from the Greekalphabet is the symbol of the most penetrating type of radiation containing no particles ? A: GAMMA
Q: "In which track from the 1975 album, Still crazy after all these years, are people advised to ""slip out the back"", ""hop on the bus"" and ""drop off the key"" ?" A: 50 WAYS TO LEAVE YOUR LOVER
Q: Which letter is given to the irrational number 2.71828 ? It is widely used in population growth calculations, economics and structural engineering. A: e
Q: "Originally based on the Roman fable The Rape of the Sabine Women which 1954 musical contains the songs ""Bless Your Beautiful Hide"" and ""Spring, Spring, Spring"" ?" A: SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS
Q: How many Prime Ministers held office in the two World Wars in the 20th century ? A: 5
Q: Born in 1913 and dying in 1994 who is the only person to be elected twice for the post of Vice President and also twice for the post of President of the USA ? A: RICHARD NIXON
Q: Which city's social services department recently caused outcry after removing foster children from 2 UKIP members ? A: ROTHERHAM
Q: Declared First Citizen of Athens, which statesman, orator and general was leader in its Golden Age, between the Persian and Peloponnesian Wars in the 5th Century BC ? A: PERICLES
Q: Found in the title of a 1945 Benjamin Britten opera, what is the surname of the Jedward twins, who finished 6th in the 2009 X Factor ? A: GRIMES
Q: Banco is the sequel to which book, made into an Oscar nominated film starring Steve McQueen in 1973 ? A: PAPILLON
Q: Who is the only British Actress, from a large theatrical family, to have won an Oscar, Emmy, Tony, Cannes Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Awards? A: VANESSA REDGRAVE
Q: SUPERCALEYGOBALISTICCELTICAREATTROCIOUS was a headline in the Sun in February 2000 after a shock cup win. To which , then 3rd Division, football club, now flying high in the SPL, did it apply ? A: INVERNESS CALEDONIAN THISTLE
Q: """Lord of all beasts of the Earth"", ""Conqueror of the British Empire"" and ""King of Scotland"" are all self-given titles to which despotic 20th century African dictator?" A: IDI AMIN
Q: The birthplace of Andy Murray, an event in which town gave rise to the Cullen Report followed by the Firearms Amendment Act in 1997 ? A: DUNBLANE
Q: In which century did William Wallace live most of his life ? A: 13th
Q: What is the planned minimum price for a unit of alcohol in Scotland ? A: 45p
Q: In November, the 5,855,533rd and last machine to be made in a Ruabon factory was sent to The Science Museum. What was it ? A: TYPEWRITER
Q: "A recent recording by Gary Barlow, which song from War of the Worlds was originally a hit for the Moody Blues in 1978 and contains the lines, ""Like the sun through the trees you came to love me, like a leaf on a breeze you blew away"" ?" A: FOREVER AUTUMN
Q: Disastrously affected by the Chalkara Fraxinea fungus, the wood from which tree is most widely used to make cricket stumps ? A: ASH
Q: How long does it takelight from the Sun to reach Pluto ? Is it 6 minutes, 6 hours or 6 days ? A: 6 HOURS
Q: How many times per second does mains electricity change from positive to negative ? A: 50
Q: In the Radio quiz Just a Minute, contestants must talk for a minute without repetition, hesitation and .. what else ? A: DEVIATION
Q: Which gas constitutes the majority of the mass in the four giant planets of the Solar System ? A: HYDROGEN
Q: "Which Cornish engineer demonstrated one of the first steam locomotives called ""Catch Me If You Can"" giving rides on a circular track near Bloomsbury in 1808 ?" A: RICHARD TREVITHICK
Q: "Which product was advertised by a giant red and white hot air balloon carrying a young lady, who was eating the product to the sound of ""I Can't Let Maggie Go"", in the 1970s ?" A: NIMBLE
Q: In which decade of the 20th century did Emile Gagnan and Jacques Cousteau develop and first sell their aqualung now more commonly called Scuba gear ? A: 1940s
Q: Which liquid gas is used by Heston Bloomental to make ice cream ? It recently destroyed part of the stomach of a young lady when consumed in a cocktail. A: NITROGEN
Q: "Which common piece of medical equipment is named from two Greek words for ""chest"" and ""to look at"" ?" A: STETHOSCOPE
Q: Sharing a name with a main character in Hardy's Far From The Madding Crowd and originally the wife of Uriah the Hittite, who, in the Bible, was the mother of King Solomon ? A: BATHSHEBA
Q: """Blue Harbour"" is a range of fashion wear for men in which High Street chain ?" A: MARKS AND SPENCERS
Q: Who played Scrooge in the Muppets' Christmas Carol ? A: MICHAEL CAINE
Q: Water is compared to stone and earth compared to iron in which Christmas carol ? A: IN THE BLEAK MIDWINTER
Q: In pre decimal coinage how many farthings were in a Half Crown? A: 120
Q: Published in 1995, the book The Sport of Queens is an autobiography of which famous author? A: DICK FRANCIS
Q: Screened on ITV from 1976 to 1977 and starring Norman Beaton and Isabelle Lewis, which British sitcom became the first to contain an all-black cast? A: THE FOSTERS
Q: Which football team recently knocked Everton out of this season's Capital One Cup? A: LEEDS UNITED
Q: In which country can you find the Happy Valley Horse Racing Course? A: HONG KONG
Q: Screened on BBC 1 from 1966 to 1971 which British sitcom saw William Mervyn as Bishop Cuthbert Hever and Derek Nimmoas Reverand Mervyn Noote? A: ALL GAS AND GAITERS
Q: Published in 2008 and written by Daily Mirror columnist Brian Reade, the autobiographical book 43 Years with The Same Bird centres on the author's lifelong following of which English football club? A: LIVERPOOL
Q: Which English King was married to Elizabeth Woodville from 1464 to 1483? A: EDWARD IV
Q: Usually served hot in a mug or bowl, which traditional Christmas cocktail that shares it's name with a famous animated TV show consists of eggnog with brandy an rum and occassionally uses egg-whites beaten stiff? A: TOM AND JERRY
Q: Which historical 17th century event was recorded by diarists samuel Pepys and John Evelyn who reecorded the events and their own reactions day by day? A: GREAT FIRE OF LONDON
Q: In which country can you find Moonee Valley Horse Racing Course? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In which country can you find the cities of Salta, Corrientes and Rosario? A: ARGENTINA
Q: What 9 letter word is used to describe someone watches or clocks? A: HOROLOGIST
Q: What is the second Christian name of sarah, Duchess of York? A: MARGARET
Q: Which African country's flag is mainly light blue and has a large white star in the centre? A: SOMALIA
Q: Which African country's flag is mainly red in colour and has a green interlocking star in the centre? A: MOROCCO
Q: Which English town is the home of te comic-strip character, Andy Capp? A: HARTLEPOOL
Q: Which English city is the setting for the comic Viz character Sid the Sexist? A: NEWCASTLE
Q: In the context of clothing what type of clothing is a Leghorn? A: HAT
Q: "The English word ""wig"", referring to an artificial hairpiece, is a shortened form of which word for the same object?" A: PERIWIG
Q: Which English novelist is probably best remembered for his 1957 novel Room At the Top? A: JOHN BRAINE
Q: Which English actor played the title role in the 19768 family film Blackbeard's Ghost? A: PETER USTINOV
Q: Which northern city shares it's name with the surname of the singer who reached number one in the UK pop charts on January 15th 1988? A: CARLISLE
Q: Which Scottish novelist is probably best remembered for his 1908 novel The Wind in the Willows? A: KENNETH GRAHAME
Q: Which family film of 1957 starring Dorothy McGuire and Fes Parker centres on the story of a youg boy and his love for his dog on thier family ranch home during the 1860's which ends tragically after the dog contracts rabies following a fight with a wolf? A: OLD YELLER
Q: Which famous stage musical with music by Andrew Lloyd Weber contains the numbers Rolling Stock and Call Me Rusty? A: STARLIGHT EXPRESS
Q: The 43 mile long Llangollen Canal links the town of Llangollen to which Civil Parish situated in Cheshire? A: HURLESTON
Q: Probably best remembered for his role as Charles Dreyfuss, the boss of Inspector Clouseau in the films A Shot in the Dark and The Return of the Pink Panther, which Czech born actor sadly passed away on September 27th 2012 aged 95 ? A: HERBERT LOM
Q: Wooley Edge and Markfield are service stations situated on which British motorway? A: M1
Q: Which English music hall performer, who died in 1952, is probably best remembered for his 1922 song The Laughung Policeman? A: CHARLES PENROSE
Q: Also known as a Lower Gastrointestinal Series, what is the better known two-word name of the medical procedure used to examine and diagnose problems with the human colon. X-Ray pictures are taken whilst a white liquid fills the colon and rectum? A: BARIUM ENEMA
Q: By what name is the TV character Colt Seavers more famously known? A: THE FALL GUY
Q: Which author was responsible for the series of short comic books Brigadier Gerard? A: ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
Q: "In which US state can you find the area named ""The Valley of the 10,000 Smokes""?" A: ALASKA
Q: Which African country lies directly south of Gibraltar? A: MOROCCO
Q: What are salmon usually called during the first two years of their life? A: PARR
Q: Alice Perrers was the mistress of which English king? A: EDWARD III
Q: What were first used in the UK at the Chesterfield Stakes at Newmarket in 1965? A: STARTING STALLS
Q: Reggae superstar Bob Marley died in which year? A: 1981
Q: Which breakfast food is named after the Roman goddess of corn and agriculture? A: CEREAL
Q: What name is given to the painting medium that uses eggs? A: TEMPERA
Q: Who wrote the novel 'The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo'? A: STIEG LARSON
Q: Rabbinic and Sephardic are denominations of which religion? A: JUDAISM
Q: What's the third book in the Fifty Shades trilogy by E.L.James/ A: FIFTY SHADES FREED
Q: Americans call them scallions; what do we call them? A: SPRING ONIONS
Q: In which town will you find the Black Sheep brewery? A: MASHAM
Q: What role was played by Doreen Mantle in TV's One Foot In The Grave? A: MRS WARBOYS
Q: What is the name of the strait which divides the city of Istanbul? A: BOSPOROUS
Q: Which freshwater fish, native to Britain has the nickname 'little Jack Sharp'? A: STICKLEBACK
Q: In which film did the Frankenstein monster sing 'Puttin on the Ritz'? A: YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN
Q: By what name is Oil of Vitriol known today? A: SULPHURIC ACID
Q: Which metaphysical poet famously wrote 'No man is an island'? A: JOHN DONNE
Q: According to research carried out by the Economist Intelligence Unit, which country will be the best to be born into in 2013? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: In 1983, Lady Donaldson was the first woman to be elected as what? A: LORD MAYOR OF LONDON
Q: A Shadoof is a device used to raise what? A: WATER
Q: How many canonical gospels are there in the New Testament? A: FOUR
Q: Who composed Night on a Bare Mountain? A: MUSSORGSKY
Q: What was the work of a 'dhobi wallah'? A: LAUNDRY
Q: In which Scottish castle was Mary Stuart crowned Queen of Scots in 1543? A: STIRLING
Q: What in Italy is the ferroviaria? A: RAILWAY
Q: At which place in Devon will you find the Britannia Royal Naval College? A: DARTMOUTH
Q: An incident in the life of naval cadet George Archer-Shee was the main inspiration for which play by Terence Rattigan? A: THE WINSLOW BOY
Q: Which former 'Have I Got News For You' presenter made an occassional appearance as Patrick in 'One Foot In The Grave'? A: ANGUS DEAYTON
Q: Which pre-Euro German coin was one hundreth of a mark? A: PFENNIG
Q: Which singer, along with Buddy Holly and 'The Big Bopper' was killed in a plane crash in 1959? A: RITCHIE VALENS
Q: Nominated by Bill Clinton, who, in 1993, became the first female Attorney General of the USA? A: JANET RENO
Q: What is depicted in a stretched out form at the bottom of Holbein's painting The Ambassadors? A: A SKULL
Q: Who is said to have designed the maze in which the mythical Minotaur was confined? A: DAEDALUS
Q: Moneymaker, beefsteak and plum are varieties of which fruit? A: TOMATO
Q: Which iconic U.S. detective agency used the motto 'We Never Sleep'? A: PINKERTONS
Q: Which stagework, the most performed of all Arthur Miller's plays, was inspired by the so-called McCarthy witchhunts in 1950's America? A: THE CRUCIBLE
Q: What type of foliage is used for the fences on the Grand National course at Aintree? A: SPRUCE
Q: Which is the only African capital city to have an underground railway system? A: CAIRO
Q: "Which British military institution has the motto; ""Serve To Lead""?" A: SANDHURST
Q: In which town or city are the hadquarters of CAMRA - the Campaign For Real Ale? A: SAINT ALBANS
Q: Which poet wrote the 1817 poem 'So We'll Go No More A-Roving'? A: BYRON
Q: Said to be the fastest creature on the planet, which is Britain's largest Falcon? A: PEREGRINE
Q: Who composed the tone poem The Sorcerer's Apprentice? A: DUKAS
Q: Which English Queen married her brother-in-law? A: CATHERINE OF ARAGON
Q: What is the name of the Nazi musical featured in the film The Producers? A: SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER
Q: Whic is the most northerly racecourse in the UK? A: PERTH
Q: Prior to his election as President, Barack Obama was a Senator for which US state ? A: ILLINOIS
Q: How many dry gallons are there in a bushel ? A: EIGHT
Q: What, in anatomy, is the hardest part of the body ? A: ENAMEL
Q: In Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream , what is the job of the ' rude mechanical ' Bottom ? A: WEAVER
Q: In music, which major scale contains just one flat ? A: F MAJOR
Q: The Simpsons cartoon series was originally part of who's TV show ? A: TRACY ULLMAN
Q: Which composer and pianist, usually included as one of the Three B's of classical music, wrote A German Requiem ? A: BRAHMS
Q: In which modern country is the site of the legendary city of Troy ? A: TURKEY
Q: Which creature, according to Pliny, had a glance that meant certain death ? A: BASILISK
Q: What is a Californian Buckeye ? A: A TREE
Q: What relation is Prince Philip to Queen Victoria ? A: GREAT GREAT GRANDSON
Q: What legal verdict is available in Scotland but not in England and Wales ? A: NOT PROVEN
Q: The adjective ' caprine ' refers to which type of animal ? A: GOAT
Q: In the language of gossip magazines, what is a PDA ? A: PUBLIC DISPLAY OF AFFECTION
Q: Who is to succeed Hilary Clinton as U.S. Secretary of State ? A: JOHN KERRY
Q: Because of an uprising that began in France and quickly spread to Italy, the Austrian Empire and Germany, which year of the 19'th century became known as the ' Year of Revolutions ' ? A: 1848
Q: Which Welsh Rugby Union team plays its home games at the Gnoll ? A: NEATH
Q: What was the name of Oasis's first UK No. 1 hit single ? A: SOME MIGHT SAY
Q: In the forthcoming trilogy of films based on Tolkien's The Hobbit , which British actor plays Bilbo Baggins ? A: MARTIN FREEMAN
Q: In which year did the Peterloo Massacre take place ? A: 1819
Q: Which coffee chain opened its first branch in Seattle in 1971 ? A: STARBUCKS
Q: Which is the least densely populated county of England ? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: Andy Murray's victory over which sporting rival made him Britain's first male grand slam tennis champion for 76 years ? A: (Novak) DJOKOVIC
Q: For how long does Rip Van Winkle sleep in Washington Irving's story ? A: 20 YEARS
Q: Which magician was the first TV partner of Basil Brush ? A: DAVID NIXON
Q: Anything You Can Do, I Can Do Better is a song from which show ? A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: What is the rugby union equivalent of a throw-in in football ? A: LINE OUT
Q: In 2012 , who became the first woman writer to win the Booker Prize for the second time ? A: HILARY MANTEL
Q: "Who said at the time of her resignation from public office: "" It's a funny old world "" ?" A: MARGARET THATCHER
Q: Who punched her way into the history books in 2012 by becoming the first woman ever to win Olympic gold in boxing ? A: NICOLA ADAMS
Q: Which island is the source of the fortified wine , Marsala ? A: SICILY
Q: Cleopatra was said to have bathed in the milk of which animal in order to preserve her complexion ? A: ASSES' MILK
Q: Which city was the Russian capital during the 11'th century ? A: KIEV
Q: What's the name of King Lear's eldest daughter in the Shakespeare play ? A: GONERIL
Q: Which actor plays the villain, Silva, in the 2012 James Bond film Skyfall ? A: JAVIER BARDEM
Q: What is the sum of the interior angles of a pentagon ? A: 540
Q: What is the principal product of the Douro Valley of Portugal ? A: PORT
Q: Which composer married Clara Wieck ? A: (Robert) SCHUMANN
Q: Give the title of the second U.K. No. 1 hit single for the Spice Girls. A: SAY YOU'LL BE THERE
Q: How were King George V and Kaiser Wilhelm II related ? A: (First) COUSINS
Q: In the Bible it is said that Noah's Ark was grounded on which mountain ? A: MOUNT ARARAT
Q: Who was the messenger of the Greek gods ? A: HERMES
Q: Which city in Russia is the world's largest north of the Arctic Circle ? A: MURMANSK
Q: Which Roman emperor is said to have made his horse Incitatus a senator ? A: CALIGULA
Q: The title of the TV programme Torchwood is an anagram of which two words ? A: DOCTOR WHO
Q: What nickname was given to the Junkers 87 aeroplane in World War 2 ? A: STUKA
Q: In what object is a ship's compass traditionally kept ? A: A BINNACLE
Q: What type of English dessert is made from mixing whipped cream, sugar and pureed fruit, often gooseberry ? A: FOOL
Q: Which fruit traditionally forms part of the dessert known as Eton Mess ? A: STRAWBERRIES
Q: On TV, what is the name of Peppa Pig's younger brother ? A: GEORGE
Q: What island lies immediately to the south of Martinique in the Caribbean ? A: SAINT LUCIA
Q: Which creatures are affected by Isle of Wight disease ? A: BEES
Q: Buckingham Palace was formerly known by what name before its redesign by the architect John Nash in the 1820's ? A: BUCKINGHAM HOUSE
Q: Blind Hughie, Fortress and Concentration are all forms of which popular game? A: DOMINOES
Q: Which bone do jockeys break most often ? A: COLLAR-BONE or CLAVICLE
Q: Whose first two hit albums were No Parlez and The Secret of Association ? A: PAUL YOUNG
Q: Which Monty Python comedian wrote and sang the theme tune to BBC's One Foot In the Grave ? A: ERIC IDLE
Q: Which farm dog watches over the home of Shaun the Sheep ? A: BITZER
Q: Which James Bond film features two female bodyguards named Bambi and Thumper ? A: DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER
Q: Which six-a-side game was invented in 1895 by William G. Morgan ? A: VOLLEYBALL
Q: Hampton Court Palace was originally built for which individual ? A: CARDINAL WOLSELEY
Q: What is the nautical term bosun short for ? A: BOATSWAIN
Q: Which cast member played the piano in the original Beyond the Fringe satirical revue of the early Sixties ? A: DUDLEY MOORE
Q: Who was British Prime Minister from 1902 to 1905 ? A: (Arthur) BALFOUR
Q: Which retail guru presented the TV series Mary Queen of Shops ? A: MARY PORTAS
Q: With the exception of its short coastline, The Gambia is bordered on all sides by which other West African country ? A: SENEGAL
Q: Julius was the first name of which Bond villain ? A: DR NO
Q: What was the original name of The Sun newspaper ? A: DAILY HERALD
Q: Which newspaper was originally known as The Sunday Pictorial ? A: SUNDAY MIRROR
Q: Who played the title role in the 2012 film The Amazing Spider-Man ? A: ANDREW GARFIELD
Q: Alan Strang is the tortured hero of which award-winning 1973 stage play by Peter Shaffer ? A: EQUUS
Q: In Roman myth , what type of animal suckled Romulus and Remus ? A: WOLF
Q: What name for a self-propelled airship or balloon comes from the French ' to steer ' ? A: DIRIGIBLE
Q: In which book of the Bible is the story of Lot's wife recounted ? A: GENESIS
Q: What , in the NATO phonetic alphabet, is the code word for M ? A: MIKE
Q: Who was British Prime Minister between 1894 and 1895 ? A: (Earl of) ROSEBERY
Q: Which character in Irish folklore stores a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow ? A: LEPRECHAUN
Q: Sir Billy Butlin was raised in Canada ; but in which country was he born ? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: In which street in the City of London did the Great Fire of London break out in 1666 ? A: PUDDING LANE
Q: What was the name of the King's horse that caused the death of suffragette Emily Davison at the Epsom Derby in 1913 ? A: ANMER
Q: The Cavendish Laboratory houses the Physics Department of which major British university ? A: CAMBRIDGE
Q: Which British playwright wrote the works Absence of War , Racing Demons and Teeth 'N' Smiles ? A: DAVID HARE
Q: Who wrote the music of the light opera Orpheus in the Underworld ? A: OFFENBACH
Q: What is the chief ingredient of the drink Mead ? A: HONEY
Q: What nickname for an Englishman is first said to have been used in the 1712 satire Love Is a Bottomless Pit by Dr John Arbuthnot ? A: JOHN BULL
Q: What was the surname of the French brothers who invented the hot - air balloon in the 18'th century ? A: MONTGOLFIER
Q: Who is credited with the authorship of the book known as the Acts of the Apostles in the Bible ? A: (St) LUKE
Q: Which leader of the Peasants' Revolt was killed by the Lord Mayor of London at Smithfield in June , 1381 ? A: WATT TYLER
Q: What was the name of the ' white horse ' who famously helped to keep the crowds in order at the first Wembley F.A. Cup Final in 1923 ? A: BILLIE
Q: For which 1988 a cappella song is Bobby McFerrin best known ? A: DON'T WORRY, BE HAPPY
Q: Which British astronomer - a proponent of the steady state theory of the universe - is usually credited with having coined the term ' big bang ' ? A: (Sir Fred) HOYLE
Q: What type of dog is Beethoven in the film franchise of that name ? A: ST BERNARD
Q: What was the nickname of Dr McCoy in Star Trek ? A: BONES
Q: In the children's show Trumpton, what was the profession of Pugh, Barney McGrew, Cuthbert, Dibble and Grub ? A: FIREMEN
Q: Pulpo is the Spanish word for what type of seafood ? A: OCTOPUS
Q: Which Manchester City player scored the winning goal against Queen's Park Rangers to win the Premier League in 2012 ? A: (Sergio) AGUERO
Q: Who was the First Lady of the United States from 1933 to 1945 ? A: ELEANOR ROOSEVELT
Q: Each September at Abbots Bromley in Staffordshire , men perform an ancient animal dance holding what ? A: ANTLERS
Q: Which Mediterranean herb is also known as wild marjoram ? A: OREGANO
Q: What was adopted as the official motto of the United States in 1956 ? A: """IN GOD WE TRUST"""
Q: Which fish, with the scientific name Pleuronectes platessa , is a flatfish immediately identifiable by the reddish or orange spots on its upper side ? A: PLAICE
Q: On which river does the city of Lisbon stand , just before it reaches the Atlantic Ocean ? A: TAGUS
Q: What word is given to the thin leather straps used in falconry to tether the bird ? A: JESSES
Q: In 1960 , Alberto Korda took an iconic photograph of which revolutionary leader ? A: CHE GUEVERA
Q: Name the Year: The musical My Fair Lady has its first performance on Broadway ; Elvis Presley has his first U.K. hit. A: 1956
Q: Which German composer wrote the music of the overture Rienzi, often heard in the concert hall ? A: WAGNER
Q: Julia Gillard is the current Prime Minister of which country ? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In the British and American armies, what rank is between a General and a Major-General ? A: LIEUTENANT-GENERAL
Q: Which Monty Python film features the exploding Mr Creosote ? A: THE MEANING OF LIFE
Q: Clara Petacci was the mistress of which dictator ? A: MUSSOLINI
Q: Which is the only London borough on both sides of the Thames ? A: RICHMOND UPON THAMES
Q: Which composer , when just 17, wrote the Overture A Midsummer Night's Dream ? A: MENDELSSOHN
Q: The drug digitalis comes from which plant ? A: FOXGLOVE
Q: The novel Notre Dame de Paris, by Victor Hugo, is better known by what title in the English-speaking world ? A: THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME
Q: Which famous U.S. highway originally ran from Chicago to Los Angeles, covering 2,448 miles ? A: ROUTE 66
Q: Who, for a time, was the wife of Menelaus, king of Sparta ? A: HELEN
Q: Who is the hero of George Orwell's novel 1984 ? A: WINSTON SMITH
Q: Which composition by Thomas Tallis shot to the top of the classical charts after getting a mention in the book 50 Shades of Grey ? A: SPEM IN ALIUM
Q: In which century was the mausoleum known as the Taj Mahal built ? A: 17th
Q: In what academic discipline does Queen guitarist Brian May hold a PhD from Imperial College , London ? A: ASTROPHYSICS
Q: In Alexandre Dumas's novel The Man In the Iron Mask , the man is the twin brother of which king ? A: LOUIS XIV
Q: Which of his sons succeeded King Alfred the Great ? A: EDWARD THE ELDER
Q: BBC TV science presenter Brian Cox played keyboards with which nineties band ? A: D-REAM
Q: What rank in the British Army was abolished in 1904 ? A: COMMANDER IN CHIEF
Q: In which country was snooker invented ? A: INDIA
Q: "An ""event horizon"" is the defining feature of which astronomical phenonmenon ?" A: BLACK HOLE
Q: Who was the mother of King Henry VI of England ? A: CATHERINE OF VALOIS
Q: What title did George Orwell give his book recalling his time as a soldier in the Spanish Civil War ? A: HOMAGE TO CATALONIA
Q: The Old Kent Road in London follows the line of which Roman road ? A: WATLING STREET
Q: Only two planets in our Solar system have retrograde rotation: Uranus and which other ? A: VENUS
Q: In which sport is the Stanley Cup awarded ? A: ICE HOCKEY
Q: What surname did actor Charles Buchinsky adopt in the Fifties before finding fame and success in films ? A: CHARLES BRONSON
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of Grocers and Policemen ? A: ST MICHAEL
Q: On a menu, what does ' Au Poivre ' mean ? A: WITH PEPPER
Q: Which group's first UK hit was ' Virginia Plain ' in 1972 ? A: ROXY MUSIC
Q: Sean Connery's first Oscar was awarded for his role in which film ? A: THE UNTOUCHABLES
Q: Which Cricket county's 'Twenty/20' team are known as the 'Gladiators' ? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: The island of Rapa Nui is better known as what ? A: EASTER ISLAND
Q: Which traditional Valencian dish is named after the Spanish word for pan? A: PAELLA
Q: Which actress became known as ' The Sweater Girl ' ? A: LANA TURNER
Q: How many different fences are jumped in the Aintree Grand National ? A: SIXTEEN
Q: Which country uses the international car registration ZA ? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Which Disney cartoon character was originally known as Dippy Dawg ? A: GOOFY
Q: What is the main currency unit of Vietnamn ? A: THE DONG
Q: "Which brand of sweets were promoted with the slogan ""What a lot I Got"" ?" A: SMARTIES
Q: Westminster Abbey is dedicated to which saint ? A: SAINT PETER
Q: Whose first solo UK No. 1 single was ' I'm Still Waiting ' in 1971 ? A: DIANA ROSS
Q: Name the last film in which Sean Connery played the role of James Bond. A: NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN
Q: Who exercises power in a stratocracy ? A: THE MILITARY
Q: In Horseracing , at which racecourse are all five of the Irish Classics held ? A: CURRAGH
Q: Who was the second U.S. President to be assassinated ? A: (JAMES A) GARFIELD
Q: Who has painted the first official portrait of the Duchess of Cambridge, unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery in 2013 ? A: PAUL EMSLEY
Q: In which building in central London was London Zoo housed before moving to Regent's Park ? A: TOWER OF LONDON
Q: The currency of which European country is the Kuna ? A: CROATIA
Q: Which city did the Romans make their seat of government when they first occupied Britain ? A: COLCHESTER
Q: What does J.I.T. mean , applied to production scheduling ? A: JUST IN TIME
Q: What is the name of Athens' seaport ? A: PIRAEUS
Q: Who painted ' The Surrender at Breda ' and ' Las Meninas ' ? A: VELASQUEZ
Q: "What product was advertised with the slogan "" Splash It All Over "" ?" A: BRUT
Q: Which great ship was originally known as the ' Leviathan ' when launched in 1858 ? A: THE GREAT EASTERN
Q: On which island did the actor Oliver Reed die in 1999 ? A: MALTA
Q: Of which famous vessel was Miles Standish the captain ? A: MAYFLOWER
Q: What does T.Q.C. mean in manufacturing industry ? A: TOTAL QUALITY CONTROL
Q: Who painted ' Supper at Emmaus ' and ' The Anatomy Lesson ' ? A: REMBRANDT
Q: Whose Law states that galaxies are moving apart at a rate that increases with their distance ? A telescope was named after him ? A: HUBBLE
Q: Which museum was originally housed in a London mansion called Montague House ? A: BRITISH MUSEUM
Q: "Which British astronomer , who wrote a science fiction novel called ""The Back Cloud"" , is particularly associated with the Steady State theory of the Universe ?" A: SIR FRED HOYLE
Q: What did Sir John Harrington design and have installed in his house in 1589 ? His was the first , certainly in England. A: A WATER CLOSET
Q: Who is the Vice President of the USA ? A: JOE BIDEN
Q: To which family of instruments does the hi-hat belong ? A: PERCUSSION
Q: In which English couny are the towns of Grantham and Skegness ? A: LINCOLNSHIRE
Q: In which English couny are the towns of Reading and Maidenhead ? A: BERKSHIRE
Q: Give any year in the life of the Italian painter Michaelangelo. A: 1475 - 1564
Q: Which President of the USA has twin daughters named Jenna and Barbara ? A: GEORGE W BUSH
Q: Even though he only lasted for three weeks, who succeeded Adolph Hitler as President of Germany in 1945 ? A: (Karl) DONITZ
Q: Which film, released in 1969 and starring Dustin Hoffman is unique in the fact that it was the first X-rated film ever to win best picture Oscar ? A: MIDNIGHT COWBOY
Q: First written in 1950, who was the author of the children's book series 'Jennings', a schoolboy who resides at Linbury Court Prep School ? A: (Anthony) BUCKERIDGE
Q: Usually affecting the big toe, Podagra is an alternative name for which medical condition ? A: GOUT
Q: Which film, released in 1973 and featuring the main characters called Henry Shaw Gondorff and Johnny Kelly Hooker won the award for best picture in 1974 ? A: THE STING
Q: First appearing in 1915 in a story entitled Extricating Young Gussie and finally in a 1974 novel entitled Aunts Aren't Gentlemen what is the more famous name of this character, he had the christian name Reginald and his occupation is described as being either a valet or varlet ? A: JEEVES
Q: Even though he only lasted six months before he was assassinated, who succeeded Franco as Prime Minister of Spain in 1973 ? A: (Luis Carrero) BLANCO
Q: Usually causing face pain and most common in children aged 2 - 12, whic disease has the alternative name 'Epidemic Parotitus' ? A: MUMPS
Q: First seen in 1926, the series of books entitled The Hardy Boys were published under the collective pseudonym of which author ? A: (Franklin W) DIXON
Q: Which Englishman was the very first footballer to score a goal for Liverpool in a European Cup Final, the year in question being 1977 ? A: TERRY McDERMOTT
Q: Which Englishman was the very first footballer to score a goal for Manchester United in a European Cup Final, the year in question being 1968 ? A: BOBBY CHARLTON
Q: Which stage musical, with music and lyrics by Stephen Schwarz, was first seen in 2003 and features the songs 'Defying Gravity', 'I'm not that Girl' and 'As long as you're mine' ? A: WICKED
Q: 'The Little Nipper' is Britain's best selling brand of what ? They are seen in many houses throughout the country. A: MOUSETRAP
Q: Which stage musical, with music and lyrics by Richard and Robert Sherman, was first seen in 2002 and features the songs 'Come to the funfair', 'Kiddy Widdy Winkies' and 'The Bombie Samba' ? A: CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG
Q: Which ten letter word of French origin is described as being the image of an object or person consisting of an outline anda featureless interior, with the object usually being black ? A: SILHOUETTE
Q: Which type of hat shares its name with the title of Procol Harum's follow-up single to their 1967 number one hit 'A Whiter Shade of Pale' ? A: HOMBURG
Q: Which common household item, invented in 1912 by American physician Sidney Russell was one of the main focuses of attention in a 1987 animated film entitled 'The Brave Little Toaster' where it took the name of 'Blanky' ? A: ELECTRIC BLANKET
Q: Born in Linlithgow, West Lothian in 1954, who is the current leader of The Scottish Nationalist Party ? A: (Alex) SALMOND
Q: In which 1960s TV series was the main character named Richard Kimble? A: THE FUGITIVE
Q: Which year saw the birth of the sextuplets 'The Waltons'? A: 1983
Q: What was the name of Captain Ahab's ship in the book Moby Dick? A: THE PEQUOD
Q: The word evaporation is used to describe the process of changing liquid into a gas. Which word is used to describe the process of changing a solid into a gas? A: SUBLIMATION
Q: In which county of Northern Ireland is the Giant's Causeway situated? A: ANTRIM
Q: Along with blue and red which colour appears on the flag of Chad? A: YELLOW
Q: In the traditional story of Sinbad the Sailor, what is the name of the giant bird that carries him off to safety following a shipwreck? A: THE ROC
Q: What is added to steel (approx 11%) to make it stainless and gives properties that prevent it from corroding, rusting or staining with water ? A: CHROMIUM
Q: In which council area of Scotland is the famous village of Gretna Green situated ? A: DUMFRIES AND GALLOWAY
Q: "What was the name of the boat belonging to the character Quinn that was used to hunt for the shark in the novel ""Jaws"" ?" A: THE ORCA
Q: Along with red and green what colour appears on the flag of Oman ? A: WHITE
Q: "Which American/British band reached number one in the UK pop charts in January 1980 with the record ""Brass in Pocket"" ?" A: PRETENDERS
Q: Which year saw the SAS storm the Iranian Embassy in London ? A: 1980
Q: Which popular four word named organisation, founded in 1844 in London has, as its main motto, 'Empowering Young People' and has its headquarters in Geneva ? It is normally known by its four initials. A: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION
Q: Along with the Clwyd, which river burst its banks in November 2012 causing devastation to the town of St Asaph ? A: THE ELWY
Q: On August 16th 1952, which town in North Devon saw much devastation and 35 fatalities after its river burst its banks following a violent storm ? A: LYNMOUTH
Q: Which English writer, born in 1882, committed suicide on 28th March 1941 by walking into the River Ouse and drowning ? A: VIRGINIA WOLFE
Q: What was the name of the farm in Buckinghamshire that saw the Great Train robbers hide out for five days after the robbery ? A: LEATHERSLADE
Q: Alma Reville who died in 1982 was the wife and collaborator of which famous British character who was knighted in 1980 ? A: ALFRED HITCHCOCK
Q: In which 1960s and 70s TV sitcom did Brian Wilde play a character called 'Bloody Delilah' ? A: THE DUSTBINMEN
Q: Ridden by jockey Pat Taffe, which horse won the 1970 Grand National at odds of 15 / 1 ? A: GAY TRIP
Q: Living from 1905 to 1992, what was the name of Britain's chief executioner? He was responsible for the executions of at least 400 people including Derek Bentley, John Haige and Ruth Ellis. A: Albert PIERREPOINT
Q: Which British executioner, employed by Charles I, was responsible for the executions of Lord Russell and James Scott? He shares his name with the fictional hangman in the children's entertainment show Punch and Judy. A: Jack KETCH
Q: Which novel, published in 1880,was co-titled 'A Tale of the Christ' ? A: BEN HUR
Q: Which town in Malta contains the replica of a World War II bomb in the roof of its local dome ? A: MOSTA
Q: Which brand of beer was advertised on TV with the slogan 'The pint that thinksit's a quart' ? A: WHITBREAD TROPHY BITTER
Q: In which US state can you find the popular Daytona Beach ? A: FLORIDA
Q: In which US state can you find the popular Waikiki Beach ? A: HAWAII
Q: Which science fiction novel of 1957 by John Wyndham tells the story of a mysterious object whcih appears in a village and then disappears again leaving all the women of the village pregnant ? A: THE MIDWICH CUCKOOS
Q: Which American tennis player won his only Wimbledon singles title in 1992 ? A: ANDRE AGASSI
Q: """The Potato Eaters"" in 1885, ""The White Orchard"" in 1888 and ""Sheaves of Wheat"" in 1890 are all works by which famous artist ?" A: Vincent VAN GOGH
Q: What is the more common eight letter name of the common human condition known as Seborrheic Dermatitus ? A: DANDRUFF
Q: Which American businesswoman, who died in 2002, is probably best remembered for her role in the creation of the popular toy Barbie doll in 1959 ? A: Ruth HANDLER
Q: Which analgesic drug, first isolated in 1804, was named after the Greek god of dreams ? A: MORPHINE
Q: What is the morecommon three word name of the human condition that is known as Spastic Colon ? A: IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME
Q: """The Blinding of Samson"" in 1636"", ""Cottages Before a Stormy Sky"" in 1641 and ""The Jewish Bride"" in 1665 are all works by which famous artist ?" A: REMBRANDT
Q: Which American tennis player won his only Wimbledon Singles title in 1975 ? A: ARTHUR ASHE
Q: Which 1969 novel by Alistair MacLean centres on a veteran Interpol natcotics expert named Paul Sherman and a violent struggle on the streets of Amsterdam ? A: PUPPET ON A CHAIN
Q: Which curry flavoured soup of Anglo-Indian origin has many variations on its recipe and takes its name from the Tamil for 'Fire Water' ? A: MULLIGATAWNY
Q: Which poisonous chemical compund was named after the Greek for blue, having been first identified during the production of the dye 'Prussian Blue' in the early 18th century ? A: CYANIDE
Q: Which famous number one hit of 1968 featured several people such as Brother Tony, Mr Freers and Jennifer Eccles who all took a remedy called Medicinal Compound ? A: LILY THE PINK
Q: Which Hungarian bon inventor, who diedin 2003, had the nickname 'The Father of the Hydrogen Bomb'? A: Edward TELLER
Q: Which five letter astronomical word is derived from the Greek for 'long tailed'? A: COMET
Q: Which six letter astronomical word is derived from the Greek for 'milk'? A: GALAXY
Q: Name the year - flash floods badly damage the Cornish village of Boscastle, a 'Fathers for Justice' campaigne, dressed as Batman, breaches security at Buckingham Palace and footballer Emlyn Hughes and DJ John Peel sadly die. A: 2004
Q: Which children's TV series, first shown in 1960, featured a town sheriff named Tex Tucker ? A: FOUR FEATHER FALLS
Q: "About which controversial Irish individual did Margaret Thatcher say, in 1981, ""crime is crime, it is not political"" shortly before his death ?" A: BOBBY SANDS
Q: Which town in Suffolk is the most easterly point in England ? A: LOWESTOFT
Q: In which month of 1941 did the Japanese attack Pearl Harbour ? A: DECEMBER
Q: In which month of 1945 did the USA drop the atom bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki ? A: AUGUST
Q: Which British Prime Minister, who was born in Portsmouth in March 1912, died on March 26th 2005 aged 92 ? A: James CALLAGHAN
Q: In which famous tale of 1697 does an animal help a miller's son achieve his fortune as the Marquis of Carabas ? A: PUSS IN BOOTS
Q: Which popular card game takes its name from the Spanish for 'Basket' ? A: CANASTA
Q: Now called the Willis Tower and standing 442 m in height, what was this building's previous name ? It was opened in 1973 and stands in the city of Chicago. A: SEARS TOWER
Q: Appointed in April 2012, what is the name of the current manager of Barcelona Football Club ? A: Tito VILANOVA
Q: Which famous children's tale, believed to have originated in 1595, was, according to folklore, based on two children who are left with their uncle at Griston Hall in Norfolk ? However, the uncle resents them and pays two men to kill them. A: BABES IN THE WOOD
Q: Which British Prime Minister, born in Chelsea in February 1894, died on December 29th 1986 aged 92 ? A: Harold MACMILLAN
Q: What was the name of the husband and manager of TV star Cilla Black who died in 1999, ending over 30 years of marriage ? A: BOBBY WILLIS
Q: Standing at 1,792 feet in height and opened in 2013, the building known as One World Trade Centre is commonly known by what other name ? A: FREEDOM Tower
Q: Whcih trick-taking card game originating in France, shares its name with a famous military leader and emperor who was born in 1769, even though the game is usually referred to by a much shortened name ? A: NAPOLEON
Q: Which English author wrote many books in his writing career including The Ministry of Fear in 1943, The Third Man in 1949 and The Honorary Consul in 1973 ? A: GRAHAM GREENE
Q: Which American author wrote many books in his writing career including The Dream Merchants in 1949, A Stone For Danny Fisher in 1952 and The Carperbaggers in 1961 ? A: HAROLD ROBBINS
Q: The 2003 film remake 'Willard' starring Crispin Glover, tells the story of a young man who has a strange control over which type of creatures ? A: RATS
Q: Which supermarket chain which currently had its headquarters in Deeside was founded in 1970 when businessmen Malcolm Walker and Peter Hinchcliffe opened the store in Oswestry ? A: ICELAND
Q: Which European country did a military coup, known as the Carnation Revolution, take place in 1974 ? A: PORTUGAL
Q: Which supermarket chain, that has its headquarters in Amsterdam and was founded in 1932, takes its name from the Dutch for 'The Spruce' - hence the company's logo ? A: SPAR
Q: The 1954 film The Naked Jungle starring Charlton Heston and Eleanor Parker centres on the story of a Peruvian cocoa plantation that is threatened by destruction by which typoe of creatures ? A: ANTS
Q: Which political party, founded in 1983, has its headquarters in Fleet in Hampshire and currently has the leader Alan Hope ? A: MONSTER RAVING LOONY PARTY
Q: Taking place in 1970 and 1971, which Asian country suffered a conflict called 'Black September' that is sometimes called @The Era of Regrettable Events' ? A: JORDAN
Q: "Which stage musical, with music by Andrew Lloyd Webber and launched in 2004, is based on an 1860 novel by Wilike Collins and contains the songs ""You See i Am No Ghost"" and ""The Holly And The Ivy"" ?" A: THE WOMAN IN WHITE
Q: "Which stage show, with music by Sir Elton John and launched in 2005, is based on a film of 2000 and contains the songs ""Born To Boogie"" and ""Granma's Song"" ?" A: BILLY ELLIOT
Q: Bamako is the capital of which country ? A: MALI
Q: With which sport would you associate the Eastbourne Eagles ? A: SPEEDWAY
Q: "The 1956 film ""Lust for Life"", starring Kirk Douglas, centred on the life of who ?" A: VINCENT VAN GOGH
Q: Adelaide is the capital of which Australian state ? A: SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Q: The largest lake in the Lake District is Windemere, but which is the next largest lake ? A: ULLSWATER
Q: What is the real name of the Chaser known as The Darl Destroyer on the ITV game show 'The Chase' ? A: SHAUN WALLACE
Q: Which motorway links the cities of Leicester and Coventry ? A: M69
Q: How did a woman named Ethel Jane Cain become very famous in Great Britain on July 24th 1936 ? She remained so until 1963. A: VOICE OF THE SPEAKING CLOCK
Q: In which city was singer Gene Pitney found dead by his tour manager on April 5th, 2006 ? A: CARDIFF
Q: What was the name of the building that was unveiled in 2005 that was designed by Thomas Heatherwick. Now dismantled, it stood 56 metres tall and had 180 hollow tapered steel columns or spikes radiating from a central core ? It was located next to the City of Manchester Stadium. A: B OF THE BANG
Q: What was the name of the horse that was first past the post in the 1993 Grand National ? It was a win that never stood due to the race being a false start. A: ESHA NESS
Q: Give any year in the life of poet William Blake. A: 1757 - 1827
Q: In which city was ex Countdown host Richard Whiteley found dead on June 26th 2005 ? A: LEEDS
Q: In which English city can you find an old street called The Shambles containing many overhanging timber-framed buildings, some dating back to the 14th century ? Amoing the buildings of The Shambles is a shrine to Saint Margaret Clitherow who was married and livd in a shop there. A: YORK
Q: What is the nickname of the fence on the Grand National course that is numbered 7 for the first jump and 23 for the second ? It takes its name from a major incident that happened there in the 1960s. A: FOINAVON
Q: Which Scottish loch is the third largest in Scotland after Loch Lomond and Loch Ness ? A: LOCH AWE
Q: Which famous Manhattan attraction has been iconified as 'The Crossroads of the World' ? A: TIMES SQUARE
Q: Which Carry On film was set in an establishment called Maudlin Street ? A: TEACHER
Q: Which of the Carry On films was set in an establishment called Paradise ? A: CAMPING
Q: Raila Odinga, aged 68, is the current Prime Minister of which country ? A: KENYA
Q: In the Harry Potter books, what is the name of the character described as a slim, blond haired pale boy who is arrogant about his skill at Quidditch ? He was played by actor Tom Felton in all the Harry Potter films. A: Draco MALFOY
Q: Which snooler player recently won the Welsh Open held in Newport ? A: STEPHEN MAGUIRE
Q: Which snooker player recently won the Haiko World Open in China ? A: MARK ALLEN
Q: What is the name of the 449 feet tall sea stak that lies clkose toRadwick Bay in the Orkney Islands ? It is described as being a red sandstone stack perched on a rock and was first climbed by Chris Bonnington and two others over three days in 1966. A: OLD MAN OF HOY
Q: Jean Valjean is the central character of which famous novel published in 1862 ? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: What two word term is used to describe the music craze of the 1970s that contained many different acts that included amongst others T Rex, The Sweet, David Bowie abd Roxy Music ? A: GLAM ROCK
Q: Which part of the human body is affected by Menier's Disease ? A: EAR
Q: What six letter word is used to describe a fish's tail fin located at the end of its body and used for propulsion ? A: CAUDAL
Q: Robert Langdon is the main character of which famous novel published in 2003 ? A: DA VINCI CODE
Q: What two word term is used to describe the music craze of the late 60s and early 70s that included a counterculture of young people and Hippies in the United States and featured acts such as Blue Mink, The Byrds, The Lovin' Spoonful and The mammas and the Papas ? A: FLOWER POWER
Q: Where in the human body can you find the Trapezium bone ? A: WRIST
Q: What is the name of the coastal headland at the southern end of Torbay in Devon lying to the South East of Brixham ? It includes a lighthouse that was built in 1906, the site of an Iron Age fort and refreshment cafe. A: BERRY HEAD
Q: Who wrote the 1955 play 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' ? A: TENNESSEE WILLIAMS
Q: In which city are the headquarters of Greenpeace International ? A: AMSTERDAM
Q: The shape of the chocolate bar Toblerone is supposedly modelled on which famous mountain ? A: MATTERHORN
Q: How did a 23 year old woman named Yu Wenxia of China create headline news on August 18th last year ? A: SHE WON MISS WORLD
Q: In which city are the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund ? A: WASHINGTON DC
Q: Name the year - Prince Edward leaves the Marines just three months after joining, the book Spycatcher is released, race riots break out in the Chapeltown area of Leeds and the Pet Shop Boys reach number 1 in the UK charts with the record 'It's a Sin' ? A: 1987
Q: Name the year - Anna Ford becomes the first female news reader on ITV, the charity Motability is founded, Bulgarian dissident Geogi Markov is killed with a poison tipped umbrella and Althea and Donna reach number 1 in the UK charts with 'Uptown Ranking' ? A: 1978
Q: Which chocolate bar, first manufactured in 1970, was made famous by Eric Idle in the Monty Pythin sketch 'Nudge Nudge' ? A: BREAKAWAY
Q: In relation to money, what is the national currency of Romania ? A: LEU
Q: In which film of 1958 did Janet Leigh play a character named Morganna ? A: THE VIKINGS
Q: On which island country can you find Bradley Adams International airport ? A: BARBADOS
Q: Who designed Marble Arch in London ? A: JOHN NASH
Q: What is the name of the thoroughfare in Springfield where the cartoon family 'The Simpsons' live ? They reside at number 742. A: EVERGREEN TERRACE
Q: On a standard London Monopoly board which is the most expensive of the Orange properties, costing £200 to purchase? A: VINE STREET
Q: By the Sleepy Lagoon is the title tune to which famous radio programme? A: DESERT ISLAND DISCS
Q: Which film of 1990 features a character named Paul Sheldon, an author who is rescued and then tortured by a woman named Annie Wilkes? A: MISERY
Q: Which famous crime duo were killed on May 23rd 1934 on a rural road in Bienville Parish, Louisiana? A: BONNIE AND CLYDE
Q: Popular mainly since the 1960s, what ten letter word is the name of the lightweight waist-length jacket made of cotton, polyester, wool or suede, usually with traditional Fraser tartan or check patterned lining? It is said to have earned its nickname due to the fact that it was often worn by one of the lead characters of the TV show Peyton Place. A: HARRINGTON
Q: With an area of 1,438 square kilometres which is England's oldest National Park? It became established on April 17th, 1951. A: PEAK DISTRICT
Q: Which popular radio show, a follow up to the earlier Children's Favourites was hosted by Ed Stewart from 1968 to 1979 and had the introductory tune 'Morningtown Ride', a song made famous by The Seekers? A: JUNIOR CHOICE
Q: Which soft drink, described as having a unique flavour, was first nationally marketed in the USA in 1904 and has had many advertising slogans including 'what's the worst that can happen' in 2008? A: DR PEPPER
Q: With an area of 1,641 square kilometers, which is England's newest National Park? It became established on April 1st 2011? A: SOUTH DOWNS
Q: Which football club won the old first division title for the first time in their history back in 1972 ? A: DERBY COUNTY
Q: What was the six letter name given to the clothes shop opened by Mary Quant on London's King's Road in 1955 ? A: BAZAAR
Q: What was the two word name of the toy, a male, well muscled, blonde, swimming trunk wearing, gel-filled, rubber action figure that was first introduced by Kenner in 1976 ? A: STRETCH ARMSTRONG
Q: What four letter word is used to describe the head of a jellyfish? A: BELL
Q: What was the Christian name of the Hungarian inventor of the Rubik Cube? A: ERNO
Q: In terms of size, which is the third smallest planet in our Solar System (excluding Pluto)? A: VENUS
Q: English poet John Keats, who died in 1821, is buried in which European country? A: ITALY
Q: Which eight letter word is used to describe the thick, hard shield, made of chitin or bone, that covers part of the body of crabs, lobsters, tortoises etc.? A: CARAPACE
Q: Which actor played the title role of architect David Vincent in the 1960's TV series The Invaders? A: ROY THINNES
Q: Which actor played the role of Admiral Harriman Nelson in the 1960's TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea? A: RICHARD BASEHART
Q: Which famous pop-star, now aged 72, despite his claim of having slept with over 250 women married his school sweetheart Melinda Trenchard in 1957, a marriage that still remains? A: TOM JONES
Q: Pattie Boyd was the first wife of which famous pop-star who she married on January 21st 1966 ? A: GEORGE HARRISON
Q: In which country can you find Ben Gurion International Airport, the country's largest? A: ISRAEL
Q: Appearing in Jacques Offenbach's Orpheus in the Underworld, what is the much more famous name of the piece of music 'The Infernal Gallop'? A: THE CAN CAN
Q: Screened on January 19th 2011, which actress played the title role in the one-off BBC programme Hattie which centred on the life of Carry-On actress Hattie Jacques? A: RUTH JONES
Q: Which play, written in 1923 by English playwright Arnold Ripley depicts a group of travellers stranded in a waiting room at a remote railway station? A: THE GHOST TRAIN
Q: The city of Melbourne, in Australia, lies on which river? A: YARRA
Q: What was the name of the supertanker which ran aground betwen Land's End and the Scilly Isles on March 18th 1967 ? A: TORREY CANYON
Q: Published in 1952, who was the subject of the book Diary of a Young Girl? A: ANNE FRANK
Q: Released in the year 2000 what was the title of the TV film that followed the relationship between Carry On film actors Sid James, played by Geoffrey Hutchins and Barbara Windsor, played by Samantha Spiro? A: COR BLIMEY
Q: Which play, written by Arthur Miller in 1949 features the lead character named Willie Loman? A: DEATH OF A SALESMAN
Q: In which country can you find Haneda Airport, one of its countries most important dealing with domestic flights? A: JAPAN
Q: Published in 1924, who was the author of the adventure book The Land That Time Forgot? A: EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS
Q: Rarely achieved, which six letter word in golf is used to describe a score of four under par on a hole, for example a hole in one on a par five or a two on a par six? A: CONDOR
Q: The city of Warsaw in Poland stands on which river? A: VISTULA
Q: Which tennis player played in four men's singles finals at Wimbledon between 1967 and 1971, winning the title on three occasions? A: JOHN NEWCOMBE
Q: The Battle of Shiloh of 1862, also known as The Battle of Pittsburg Landing was a battle that took place during which war? A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: The remake of which popular TV series of the 1960s saw James Caviezel in the main role and was filmed in Swakopmund in Namibia? A: THE PRISONER
Q: Commonly found throughout the Southern USA and the Northern half of Mexico what type of creature is a Coachwhip? A: SNAKE
Q: Which female singer reached number one in the UK charts in October 1979 with a record entitles One Day At A Time? A: LENA MARTELL
Q: The American TV series Three's A Crowd that ran from 1984 to 1985 was loosely based on which BBC series that featured Richard O'Sullivan? A: ROBIN'S NEST
Q: The Battle of Bomarsund of 1854 was a battle that took place during which war? A: CRIMEAN WAR
Q: Which male singer reached number one in the UK charts in February 1977 with a record entitled When I Need You? A: LEO SAYER
Q: Found mainly in the US state of Texas, what type of creature is a Tooth Cave? A: SPIDER
Q: Which British multinational drinks restaurant chain, established in 1971, is adertised by featuring three beans inside a circle? A: COSTA COFFEE
Q: Who was the last Englishman to score in a Champion's League Final? A: WAYNE ROONEY
Q: On a mobile phone keyboard the letters JKL are on which number button? A: 5
Q: The 'Thought Police' feature in whic famous novel of 1949? A: 1984
Q: The food dish 'Chicken Montmorency' includes which fruit? A: CHERRIES
Q: William Lyon Mackenzie King, more famously known as Bill King was Prime Minister of which country during World War II ? A: CANADA
Q: Which moon of the planet Jupiter shares its name with the alias of the character Rosalind when she disguises herself as a man in Shakespeare's As You like It? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Taking place in 1513, the Battle of Flodden Field took place in which English county? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: Which American author wrote the 1985 book The Cider House Rules? A: John IRVING
Q: What was the name of the Christmas hamper firm that in October 2006 collapsed and left hundreds of families out of pocket? A: FAREPACK
Q: Taking place in 1644, the Battle of Marston Moor took place in which English county? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: Which moon of the planet Saturn shares its name with the name of the girlfriend of the book character Adrian Mole? A: PANDORA
Q: Peter Fraser was the Prime Minister of which country for vast the majority of World War II ? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: On April 5th 2006, the discovery of which type of bird in Scotland having Avian Influenza sparked a major UK Bird Flu alert? A: SWAN
Q: What nationality is tennis player Karen Hantze Susman who won the 1962 Ladies Singles title at Wimbledon, beating Vera Sukova in the final? A: AMERICAN
Q: Which American author wrote the book The Catcher In The Rye in 1951 ? A: J D SALINGER
Q: Which children's animated character, a young boy first seen in 2005, was transformed when he found a mysterious device called 'The Omnitrix'? A: BEN 10
Q: Which popular animated characters, first seen in 1996 include many different characters including ones called Ash Ketchum, Tracy Sketchit and Gar Oak? A: POKEMON
Q: Which king of England, Denmark, Norway and parts of Sweden who died on November 12th 1035 is buried at Winchester Cathedral? A: CANUTE
Q: Which basalt tablet was famously rediscovered in 1799 by French Captain Pierre Francois Bouchard, bearing parallel inscriptions in Greek, Egyptian Hieroglyphic and demotic characters? A: ROSETTA Stone
Q: Which four letter word can mean a dish of cooked meat cut into small pieces, to make a mess of or part of a mobile phone? A: HASH
Q: What was the name of the spy, created by author Len Deighton who was portrayed by Michael Caine in the films Funeral in Berlin, The Ipcress File abd The Billion Dollar Brain? A: HARRY PALMER
Q: In which famous film did Michael Caine play a character named Charlie Croker? A: THE ITALIAN JOB
Q: Which four letter word can mean a shot in golf, a famous pirate or a law in physics? A: HOOK
Q: There are eight states of the USA whose names begin with the letter 'N'. Which one comes last alphabetically? A: NORTH DAKOTA
Q: There are eight states of the USA whose names begin withthe letter 'M'. Which one comes last alphabetically? A: MONTANA
Q: Deriving its name from the Urdu for 'Water Monster' and predominantly found in India, what type of creature is a 'Mugger'? A: CROCODILE
Q: Native to America, what type of creature is a 'Bobolink'? A: BIRD
Q: With Michael Landon and Karen Grassle as the mother and father, what was the surname of the main family in the TV series Litle House on the Prairie? A: INGALL
Q: In Chinese cooking what would you be eating of you ordered Wantons? A: DUMPLINGS
Q: Which popular building is situated at the address, Chester Road West, Queensferry, Flintshire CH5 1SA? It is the largest of its type in North Wales. A: DEESIDE LEISURE CENTRE
Q: Which poem by Alexander Pope contains the famous line 'Fools rush in where Angels fear to tread'? A: AN ESSAY ON CRITICISM
Q: Which fellow English team did Tottenham Hotspur defeat by an aggregate score of 3 - 2 to win the 1972 EUFA Cup Final? A: WOLVES
Q: Which eight letter word from medics takes its name from the Greek word meaning 'to smother'? A: ASPHYXIA
Q: In Chinese cooking, what type of meat is the main ingredient in the dish Char Siu? A: PORK
Q: With Guy Williams and June Lockhart as the mother and father, what was the surname of the main family in the TV series Lost in Space? A: ROBINSON
Q: Which poem by Alfred Lord Tennyson contains the line 'Into the mouth of hell rode the six hundred'? A: CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE
Q: What two word name was given to the British civilian organisation created during the first and second world wars that involved women working in agriculture, replacing men who had been called up to the military? A: LAND ARMY
Q: Gary Lightbody is the lead vocalist of which pop band formed in 1994 ? A: SNOW PATROL
Q: Chad Varah, a British Anglican priest who lived from 1911 to 2007 is probably best remembered for being the founder of which charity organisation in 1953 ? A: SAMARITANS
Q: What surname links a 16th century Queen Consort of England and the name of a current Premiership football ground? A: BOLEYN
Q: Ricky Wilson is the lead vocalist of which pop band formed in 1996 ? A: KAISER CHIEFS
Q: William Booth, a former Methodist Preacher who lived from 1829 to 1912 is probably best remembered for being the founder of which charity organisation in 1865 ? A: SALVATION ARMY
Q: Which painting of 1851 by Sir Edwin Landseer features a great stag/deer which stands on a rise among cloud-covered mountains? A: MONARCH OF THE GLEN
Q: Which two word titled film of 1971 sees Barry Newman as a car delivery seviceman named Kowalski who takes control of a 1970 Dodge Challenger car to take him from Colorado to San Francisco? A: VANISHING POINT
Q: In which city was Martin Luther King assassinated in 1968 ? A: MEMPHIS
Q: 'Erinaceus Europaeus' is the latin name for which common creature? A: HEDGEHOG
Q: Sharing its name with a native American tribe, which hairstyle sees both sides of the head shaven leaving a noticeably longer length of hair in the centre? A: MOHICAN
Q: What eight letter word do Americans use to describe what we British call a pavement? A: SIDEWALK
Q: Which actor played the part of Wayne the father in the 1989 film Honey I Shrunk the Kids? A: RICK MORANIS
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the British General Strike? A: 1926
Q: In which UK city are the headquarters of Asda? A: LEEDS
Q: Which cricket county finished runners-up to champions Warwickshire this year, despite losing only one match all season in Division One? A: SOMERSET
Q: Which breed of Terrier gives its name to a farmer who appeared in the novel Guy Mannering by Sir Walter Scott? A: DANDY DINMONT
Q: Which British city's airport is located in the suberb of Turnhouse? A: EDINBURGH
Q: Which actor played the role of killer Max Cady in the 1991 film Cape Fear? A: ROBERT DE NIRO
Q: Which breed of Terrier gives its name to a county in South West Ireland and apparently became a mascot for Irish patriots seeking independence from England? A: KERRY BLUE
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the famous St Valentne's Day Massacre? A: 1929
Q: In which UK city are the headquarters of Morrisons? A: BRADFORD
Q: Which cricket county finished runners-up in Division Two to Derbyshire this year, despite the fact that they never lost a match all season? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: On which comedian's radio show did Sid James star for almost six years beginning in 1954 as a character with the middle name Balmoral? A: TONY HANCOCK
Q: What H was the Christian name of Mr Royce, founder of the car company Rolls Royce? A: HENRY
Q: What C was the Christian name of Mr Rolls, founder of the car company Rolls Royce? A: CHARLES
Q: Brideshead Revisited, written in 1945, was a famous novel by which famous author? A: EVELYN WAUGH
Q: What is the seven letter name of the hat traditionally worn by a Town Crier? A: TRICORN
Q: What is the name of the now 46 year old British man whose extradition to the USA, for breaking into American computer systems, was recently blocked by Home Secretary Theresa May? A: Gary McKINNON
Q: What is the name of the editor of BBC's Newsnight who recently resigned following a Panorama probe into the Jimmy Saville affair? A: Peter RIPPON
Q: What is the nine letter name of the small, silk skullcap that is worn by certain Roman Catholic clerics, they vary in colour according to rank? A: ZUCCHETTO
Q: """He's a poor lad"", was a famous saying of which sports commentator who died in 1986?" A: EDDIE WARING
Q: Which famous poet, born in 1888, had the middle name 'Stearns'? A: T S ELLIOT
Q: Which famous actor, born in 1893, had the middle name 'Goldenberg'? A: EDWARD G ROBINSON
Q: """Oh say can you see by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming"" are the opening words to which famous song?" A: STAR SPANGLED BANNER
Q: """The hills are bare now and Autumn leaves lie thick and still"" are the opening lyrics to the second verse of which famous song?" A: FLOWER OF SCOTLAND
Q: Which actress plays the title role in the ITV series Vera? A: BRENDA BLETHYN
Q: Which member of the Royal Family has the title 'Baron Greenwich'? A: PRINCE PHILIP
Q: Which pop group in June 1976 reached Number One in the UK charts with the record You To Me Are Everything? A: REAL THING
Q: In the 2012 Summer Olympics Opening Ceremony the comedy character Mr Bean appeared and jokingly played an instrument to which famous record? A: CHARIOTS OF FIRE
Q: In which series of books, first published in 1942, did many of the adventures take place on Kirrin Island? A: THE FAMOUS FIVE
Q: What is the much more common name of the British Royal named Baroness Marie Christine Anna Hedwig Ida Von Reibbitz? A: PRINCESS MICHAEL OF KENT
Q: Which actor plays the title role in the ITV series Monroe? A: JAMES NESBITT
Q: Which famous company, founded in Los Angeles in 1923 is Bob Iger the Chairman and Chief Executive of? A: DISNEY
Q: What was the name of the actress and businesswoman famous for her affair with politician David Mellor that resulted in his resignation from the Cabinet in 1992 ? A: Antonia De SANCHA
Q: Which series of books, first published in 1922, sees the main character's friends named Ginger, Henry and Douglas who call themselves the Outlaws? A: JUST WILLIAM
Q: Which famous two word titled Beatles song did the band The Arctic Monkeys perform at the Opening Ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics? A: COME TOGETHER
Q: Which famous science fiction novel of 1951 begins with the main character, Bill Mason, recovering in hospital with his eyes bandaged having missed a giant meteor storm? A: DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS
Q: "Which famous science fiction novel of 1898 is famous for its ending which states ""After all that mankind had tried, the Earth was saved by the littlest things that God, in his wisdom, had put on this Earth?" A: WAR OF THE WORLDS
Q: Which Australian Prime Minister famously disappeared whilst swimming off the coast of Victoria on December 17th 1967? A: Harold HOLT
Q: What nationality was Kel Nagle, winner of golf's British Open in 1960 ? A: AUSTRALIAN
Q: Which US President was assassinated on September 6th 1901 shortly after spending a morning visiting Niagara Falls with his wife? A: William McKINLEY
Q: As in the film TORA TORA TORA which five letter word does the Japanes word Tora mean in English? A: TIGER
Q: What nationality was Bob Charles, winner of golf's British Open in 1963? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: What is the well known two word name of the street in Los Angeles that runs from Figuerola Street for 22 miles to the Pacofoc Coast Highway? A: SUNSET BOULEVARD
Q: What is the well known two word name for the remote , higher reaches of the A57 road where it crosses the Peak District between Manchester and Sheffield? A: SNAKE PASS
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born at 54 Albion Road, Broadstairs, Kent on July 9th 1916 ? A: EDWARD HEATH
Q: "What was the three word name of the manwith the gong in the ""yes or no"" interlude in the 1960s game show Take Your Pick?" A: BOB DANVERS WALKER
Q: Which band's first top ten single was the 10538 Overture in 1972? A: ELO
Q: Living from 1890 to 1963, what was the more famous name of American born Robert Franklin Stroud? A: BIRDMAN OF ALCATRAZ
Q: Which English author wrote the 1934 novel Goodbye Mr Chips? A: James HILTON
Q: What nationality was artist Mark Rothko who lived from 1903 to 1970? A: RUSSIAN
Q: Which actor played the lead role in the 1986 remake of the horror film The Fly? A: JEFF GOLDBLUM
Q: Give any year in the life of the notorius English pirate Edward Teach, more famously known as Blackbeard? A: 1680 - 1718
Q: Which English author wrote the 1925 novel 'The Great Gatsby'? A: F SCOTT FITZGERALD
Q: Living from 1911 to 1995, what is the more famous name of american born Virginia Katherine McMath? A: GINGER ROGERS
Q: Which actor played the role of psychiatrist Sam Loomis in the 1978 horror film Halloween? A: DONALD PLEASANCE
Q: Taking their name from the French for 'small oven' which small cake confection usually eaten at the end of a meal are described as small, square cut, frosted and decorated sponge cake? A: PETIT FOURS
Q: What nationality was artist Alphonse Mucha who lived from 1869 to 1939 ? A: CZECH
Q: Which ex snooker world champion died on July 24th 2010 aged 61 ? A: ALEX HIGGINS
Q: What is the name of the female assistant to Sweeney Todd who supplies the pies in the famous story? A: MRS LOVETT
Q: Launched in January 1993, which Ford model car won the award for European Car of the Year in 1994? A: MONDEO
Q: In a standard game of poker, which hand comes immediately lower than a straight flush? A: FOUR OF A KIND
Q: With a population of over one and a half million inhabitants, what is the capital city of Cameroon? A: YAOUNDE
Q: What is the name of the girlfriend of Bill Sykes who he murders in the Dickens novel 'Oliver Twist'? A: NANCY
Q: In a standard game of poker, which hand comes immediately lower than a straight? A: THREE OF A KIND
Q: Launched in Autumn 1995, which Renault model car won the award for European Car of the Year in 2003 ? A: MEGANE
Q: Which Scottish football team share their name with the Christian name of a famous American criminal who died in 1934 ? A: CLYDE
Q: 'The Town of Titipu' is the alternative name for which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: THE MIKADO
Q: What type of creatures in Britain have types called Whooper and Berwick? A: SWANS
Q: Which member is missing from the following list of the group The Jackson Five - Michael, Marlin, Jackie and Jermain? A: TITO
Q: What was the name of the London based street dance troupe who won the third series of ITV's 'Britain's Got Talent', narrowly beating Susan Boyle into second place? A: DIVERSITY
Q: Which famous term adopted in 1968 was a brief patriotic campaign to boost the British economy which started when five secretaries volunteered to work an extra half hour each day in order to boost productivity and urged others to do the same? A: I'M BACKING BRITAIN
Q: Who is the only Fulham player to win the award for Football Writer's 'Player of the Year', doing so in 1975. A: ALAN MULLERY
Q: Three British towns were awarded city status in 2012. Perth and Chelmsford were two, which was the other one? A: ST ASAPH
Q: What 'M' was the name of the farm in the George Orwell book 'Animal Farm'? A: MANOR
Q: Found in Venezuela, what is the name of the world's highest uninterupted waterfall? A: ANGEL FALLS
Q: What was the name of the then 14 year old street dancer from Warrington who won the second series of IV's 'Britain's got Talent', performing a big beat remix of the song 'Singing in the Rain'? A: George SAMPSON
Q: Whic male member i missing from the following list of the group 'The Osmonds' - Donny, Jimmy, Alan, wayne and Jay? A: MERRILL
Q: Greater Horseshoe, Brandt's and Natterer's are all species of which type of creatures that are found in Britain? A: BATS
Q: Found in Chile, what is the name of the world's driest desert? A: ATACAMA
Q: Which British town was awarded city status in 1969 so affecting the name of its football league team? A: SWANSEA
Q: Apart from Stanley Matthews in 1963, who is the only Stoke City player to win the award for Football Writer's Player of the Year, doing so in 1972? A: GORDON BANKS
Q: In 2002,Kevin Ashman from the BBC show 'Eggheads' took over as question setter on the radio series 'Brain of Britain'. He chose to be known as 'Jorkins' a character taken from which novel by Charles Dickens? A: DAVID COPPERFIELD
Q: Now aged 57, which British scientist is widely accepted as being the inventor of the World Wide Web? A: Tim BERNERS-LEE
Q: What nickname links an entertainer who has the real name Victoria Hesketh and the Roman emperor Caligula? A: LITTLE BOOTS
Q: Living from 1891 to 1958 which Dane is credited with being the inventor of the toy Lego? A: Ole Kirk CHRISTIANSEN
Q: For many years, Ian Gilles, a former winner of radio's 'Brain of Britain', was question setter for the series. He adopted which name that is associated with Sherlock Holmes? A: MYCROFT
Q: Which Irish stick and ball team sport is almost identical to the game of Hurling except for the fact it is played only by women as opposed to men? A: CAMOGIE
Q: A 'Lady's Slipper' is a variety of which type of flower? A: ORCHID
Q: Which river. approximately 28 miles in length, flows into Morecambe Bay through Fleetwood? A: THE WYRE
Q: Who succeeded Jon Pertwee as Doctor Who? A: TOM BAKER
Q: The Bio-Bio Valley is a wine producing region in which country? A: CHILE
Q: The frequent absences of King George I from England and Parliament led directly to the creation of which position in government? A: PRIME-MINISTER
Q: What colour are the seats in the House of Commons? A: GREEN
Q: What type of engine powered the first generation of Spitfire fighters in the 1930's ? A: ROLLS-ROYCE MERLIN
Q: Which vegetable is usually mixed with potatoes to make the Irish dish, Colcannon? A: CABBAGE
Q: What is the US equivalent of the Territorial Army? A: THE NATIONAL GUARD
Q: Who played the title role in the long-running detective series Bergerac? A: JOHN NETTLES
Q: Which is the deepest lake in the English Lake District? A: WASTWATER
Q: Pitchblende is the chief ore of which metallic element? A: URANIUM
Q: What is added to whisky and sweet vermouth to make a Bobby Burns cocktail? A: BENEDICTINE
Q: In which year were One Pound coins introduced? A: 1983
Q: With which material does a Cordwainer usually work? A: LEATHER
Q: Which European country hasn't been at war since 1814? A: SWEDEN
Q: How many masts does the vessel known as a Ketch have? A: TWO
Q: Who was the first woman in space, a feat she achieved in June 1963? A: (Valentina) TERESHKOVA
Q: Which Roman goddess was the equivalent of the Greek goddess Nike? A: VICTORIA
Q: What is the term for a triangle with three angles of 60 degrees? A: EQUILATERAL
Q: Yuri Gagarin made the first Soviet space flight in April 1961. Who made the first (sub-orbital ) American space flight a month later? A: ALAN SHEPHERD
Q: What was traditionally made by a Chandler? A: CANDLES
Q: Hepatic is a adjective relating to which organ of the body? A: LIVER
Q: In which year did the Bank of England 10 shilling note cease to be legal tender? A: 1970
Q: What part of the human digestive system is no longer needed? A: APPENDIX
Q: Which Englich king was the father of the two boys known as 'The Princes in the Tower'? A: EDWARD IV
Q: Which actress last year won an EMMY award for her role as Mildred Pierce? A: KATE WINSLET
Q: Which was the first country to introduce Old Age Pensions? A: GERMANY
Q: """Written by office boys, for office boys"" was the dismissive verdict of Lord Salisbury on which national newspaper, at the time of its foundation in 1896?" A: DAILY MAIL
Q: What's the common name for the curved knife or dagger traditionally used by the Gurkhas, with its sharp edge on the concave side? A: KUKRI
Q: In which building were the Proms held before World War II? A: QUEEN'S HALL
Q: Which of the territories of Canada has the city of Yellowknife as its capital? A: NORTHWEST TERRITORIES
Q: Who wrote the melody of the song 'Swonderful'? A: GEORGE GERSHWIN
Q: Which British opera venue was used as a dance hall during World War II? A: COVENT GARDEN
Q: What was the original name of the 'London Times' newspaper? A: DAILY UNIVERSAL REGISTER
Q: "Which actress said in the film All About Eve, ""Fasten your seatbelts. It's going to be a bumpy night""?" A: BETTE DAVIS
Q: The former Soviet republic of Tajikistan, which declared independence in 1991, has which city as its capital? A: DUSHANBE
Q: "Which politician was described by Neil Kinnock as, ""a ditherer, a dodger, a ducker and a weaver""?" A: JOHN MAJOR
Q: In the pop music world whose nickname is 'Madge'? A: MADONNA
Q: Which British engineer built the first turbine driven steamship in 1897? A: Sir Charles PARSONS
Q: What was the name of the publishing company founded in 1917 by Leonard and Virginia Wolfe? A: THE HOGARTH PRESS
Q: "In the 1933 film She Done Him Wrong, who was the actor to whom Mae West said, ""Why don't you come up sometime and see me""?" A: CARY GRANT
Q: Which northern English town is associated with the manufacture of Uncle Joe's Mint Balls? A: WIGAN
Q: "Who wrote the melody of the song 'Smoke Gets In your Eyes""?" A: JEROME KERN
Q: Dis and Orcus are alternative names for which Roman god of the Underworld? A: PLUTO
Q: The carbonated soft drink generally known in the US as cream soda is flavoured with pods from plants of which genus? A: VANILLA
Q: In which US state is the town of Springfield which Simpson's creator Matt Groening has revealed was the inspiration for his fictional Springfield? A: OREGON
Q: Kashmir is a classic track on a 1975 album by which British rock band? A: LED ZEPPELIN
Q: What is the English name of the dog belonging to cartoon character TinTin? A: SNOWY
Q: Who was lead singer with late-Sixties rock group The Doors ? A: JIM MORRISON
Q: Which model married both George Harrison and Eric Clapton ? A: PATTY BOYD
Q: Oak Apple Day , commemorating the restoration of the monarchy to England in 1660 , is on which date ? A: 29th MAY
Q: What was invented by Karl Dahlman , in 1963 , to aid gardeners ? A: HOVER MOWER
Q: Which actress was married to Orson Welles from 1943 to 1948 ? A: RITA HAYWORTH
Q: As well as John Paul the First , which other pope died in 1978 ? A: PAUL VI
Q: If you ordered Rognons in a French restaurant , with which food would you be served ? A: KIDNEYS
Q: Which type of suit , with tapering trousers and a long wide shouldered coat , became fashionable in the 1940's ? A: ZOOT SUIT
Q: In which town does Desperate Dan live ? A: CACTUSVILLE
Q: On which Test cricket ground is the Radcliffe Road end ? A: TRENT BRIDGE
Q: In the novel by Jules Verne , where did the expedition , led by Professor Linden-brock , set out to reach ? A: CENTRE OF THE EARTH
Q: What is the common name of Scrivener's Palsey ? A: WRITER'S CRAMP
Q: Which gas was once known as ' Fire Damp ' because it often caused explosions in mines ? A: METHANE
Q: ' Twenty Years After ' is the sequel to which other novel ? A: THE THREE MUSKETEERS
Q: In which town is the Wetherspoons pub ' The Eric Bartholemew ' ? A: MORECAMBE
Q: Who wrote the ' Ode to Joy ' on which Beethoven based the last movement of his Ninth Symphony ? A: SCHILLER
Q: The footballer John Charles played for two Italian football clubs: Roma and which other ? A: JUVENTUS
Q: What kind of creature is a Twite ? A: BIRD
Q: In which Hertfordshire town are the headquarters of the Wetherspoons pub chain ? A: WATFORD
Q: What was the name of the submarine in the novel ' 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ' by Jules Verne ? A: NAUTILUS
Q: The German cities of Dresden and Hamburg stand on which river ? A: ELBE
Q: Which American boxer's thunderous right hand punch was known as ' The Suzie Q ' ? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: If a dish were to be described as ' du lapin ' in a French restaurant , what animal's meat should it contain ? A: RABBIT
Q: The sequel to Robert Louis Stevenson's Kidnapped takes its title from the girl the hero David Balfour falls in love with. What is its title ? A: CATRIONA
Q: Ludo is the children's version of which long-established board game ? A: BACKGAMMON
Q: Which artist became the first President of the Royal Academy in 1768 ? A: JOSHUA REYNOLDS
Q: Which Greek word meaning ' union ' refers to the proposed union of the island of Cyprus and Greece ? A: ENOSIS
Q: Which musical instrument was patented in Hawaii in 1917 ? A: UKELELE
Q: In the traditional game table skittles , what name is usually given to the ball or disc or ' lump ' cast at the pins ? A: THE CHEESE
Q: Which of his silent film epics did Cecil B. De Mille remake in the 1950's ? A: THE TEN COMMANDMENTS
Q: Who made a century on his Test debut for England v New Zealand in 2004? A: ANDREW STRAUSS
Q: Stephen King's acclaimed novel 11.22.63. is centred on which historical event ? A: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
Q: What nickname was given to Lloyd George's budget of 1909 ? A: THE PEOPLE'S BUDGET
Q: Which 1925 film starring Ramon Novarro was reshot in 1959 , to much box office and Academy Award success ? A: BEN HUR
Q: What term describes the point at which a celestial object in orbit around the Earth , such as the Moon , makes its closest approach to Earth ? A: PERIGEE
Q: Which actor's last TV appearance before his death in 1985 was as Daniel Reece in Dynasty ? A: ROCK HUDSON
Q: Which county won Cricket's County Championship for the first time in its history in 1979 ? A: ESSEX
Q: What form of entertainment , not necessarily musical , has a name which means ' empty orchestra ' ? A: KARAOKE
Q: Which Wagner opera features the Good Friday music ? A: PARSIFAL
Q: What type of implement is an Indonesian kris ? A: DAGGER
Q: Which Welsh town was granted city status in 2012 ? A: ST ASAPH
Q: The Blowfly is known in the UK by what other common name ? A: BLUEBOTTLE
Q: Which UK TV game show introduced us to Dusty Bin ? A: 3-2-1
Q: In which country is the Kensington Oval cricket stadium ? A: BARBADOS
Q: Hadrian's Wall was completed in which century ? A: 2nd CENTURY AD
Q: "From which Shakespeare play do we get the quotation "" hubble bubble toil and trouble fire burn and caluldron bubble "" ?" A: MACBETH
Q: What was the name of the U.S. Space station , launched into Earth orbit in May 1973 ? A: SKYLAB
Q: On which TV show did Mr Blobby first make his appearance ? A: NOEL'S HOUSE PARTY
Q: In 2012 , which town became the first in Essex to be granted city status ? A: CHELMSFORD
Q: In which city will you find the cricket ground known as the Gabba ? A: BRISBANE
Q: Under which Roman emperor did the Roman Empire reach its greatest extent, teritorially ? A: TRAJAN
Q: Who is the queen of Denmark ? A: MAGRETHE
Q: Which imperial measure is the equivalent of 91.44cm ? A: A YARD
Q: Who in the Bible's Book of Judges is the son of Manoah ? A: SAMSON
Q: Scamper is a dog in which series of Enid Blyton stories ? A: SECRET SEVEN
Q: What rank does an officer in the British Army hold who wears the insignia of a crown and two stars on his shoulder straps ? A: COLONEL
Q: Which type of pastry canape's name literally means ' flight in the wind ' ? A: VOL-AU-VENT
Q: Which Russian revolutionary was born Lev Davidovich Bronstein in 1879 ? A: (Leon) TROTSKY
Q: What name did the Beckhams give to their fourth child and first daughter ? A: HARPER SEVEN
Q: Which was the second bridge to be built over the Thames in central London? A: WESTMINSTER
Q: Which singer duetted with Joe Cocker on their 1982 smash hit record ' Up Where We Belong ' ? A: JENNIFER WARNES
Q: By what name is the former Marriage Guidance Council now known ? A: RELATE
Q: By what name is the Russian city of Stalingrad now known ? A: VOLGOGRAD
Q: In Troy weight , how many grains are there in a pennyweight ? A: 24
Q: Which reptile's name comes from the Spanish ' el lagarto ' , meaning ' the lizard ' ? A: ALLIGATOR
Q: "According to Dr Johnson , what in England is "" given to horses , but in Scotland supports the people "" ?" A: OATS
Q: Which bridge in central London was originally known as the Strand Bridge when opened in 1817 ? A: WATERLOO
Q: Which type of coal contains the highest carbon count and the fewest impurities ? A: ANTHRACITE
Q: In which century were the Royal Marines founded ? A: 17th
Q: Gideon , whose story is told in the Book of Judges , was a member of which tribe ? A: MANNASEH
Q: The Eiffel Tower has a restaurant named after which author ? A: JULES VERNE
Q: Who wrote the music of the oratorios The Apostles and The Kingdom ? A: ELGAR
Q: What was the name of the first Aintree Grand National winner to be trained by a woman ? A: CORBIERE
Q: Rudyard Kipling was the cousin of which British Prime Minister ? A: STANLEY BALDWIN
Q: Who was the last English king to die in battle ? A: RICHARD III
Q: Which sister ship of the Titanic never entered commercial service and was sunk by a mine while serving as a hospital ship in 1916 ? A: BRITANNIC
Q: What is the name of the ' world's highest ' restaurant , on the 122'nd floor of the Burj Khalifa in Dubai ? A: ATMOSPHERE
Q: "According to Dr Johnson , "" Claret is the liquor for boys ; port , for men "" , but he "" who aspires to be a hero "" must drink - what ?" A: BRANDY
Q: Which was the first horse to complete the Cheltenham Gold Cup-Grand National double in the same season ? A: GOLDEN MILLER
Q: Who is the mother of the actor Toby Stephens ? A: (Dame) MAGGIE SMITH
Q: Who wrote the music of the oratorios The Creation and The Seasons ? A: HAYDN
Q: Two of the planets in our Solar system don't have moons: Venus - and which other ? A: MERCURY
Q: How much were you entitled to receive per week as a single pensioner , assuming you were over 70 and your income was less than £21 a year , when Old Age Pensions were introduced in 1909 ? A: 5 SHILLINGS
Q: Which U.K. pop group of the 1980's had No.1 hits with their first three releases ? A: FRANKIE GOES TO HOLLYWOOD
Q: Which Scottish scientist is generally credited with the invention of the telephone? A: ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL
Q: "Which music hall star was known as ""The Cheeky Chappie""?" A: MAX MILLER
Q: Which is the world's longest range of mountains? A: THE ANDES
Q: Which peace treaty ended the Russo-Japanes war? A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: Which is the only Australian state capital not named after a person? A: PERTH
Q: What was Lester Piggott's last Derby winner? A: TEENOSO
Q: What name is given to the fur of the Coypu? A: NUTRIA
Q: Which sporting event takes place in Pasadena, California on New Year's Day? A: ROSE BOWL
Q: Which city was the interim capital of Pakistan while Islamabad was being constructed? A: RAWALPINDI
Q: Which native American tribe were also known as the Dakota? A: SIOUX
Q: Which horse, the 1977 Grand National winner, was owned by Fred Pontin? A: SPECIFY
Q: What is the German name for the Danube? A: DONAU
Q: How is the fragrant white spring flower with the botanical name Convalleria Majalis popularly known? A: LILY OF THE VALLEY
Q: In Norse mythology who was the God of Mischief? A: LOKI
Q: "Which Dickens novel is subtitled ""The Parish Boy's Progress""?" A: OLIVER TWIST
Q: The lack of which vitamin caused scurvy in the early days of the navy? A: VITAMIN C
Q: Who succeeded to the English throne in 1422 at the age of nine months? A: HENRY VI
Q: Which TV series featured Frank Drebin and Al, a seven foot tall cop whose face never appeared because he was too tall to fit on the screen? A: POLICE SQUAD
Q: What was the main American tank of World War II? A: SHERMAN
Q: What do the Russians call Moscow? A: MOSKVA
Q: If, in an American diner, you ordered 'Eve With the Lid On', what would you recieve? A: APPLE PIE
Q: Which stand-up comedian has played football at semi-professional level and once worked full-time as a pharmaceuticals sales director? A: JOHN BISHOP
Q: Which family holds the hereditary right to the office of Earl Marshal of England? A: HOWARD FAMILY
Q: Which was the major battle of the Franco-Prissian war? A: SEDAN
Q: Which musical features the song 'Let the sun shine in'? A: HAIR
Q: In which city is La scala opera house? A: MILAN
Q: How many gills are there in half a gallon? A: 16
Q: Who, along with Leslie Bricusse, wrote the lyrics for the James Bond film song Goldfinger? A: ANTHONY NEWLEY
Q: Which Bavarian town stages a wagner festival every July and August? A: BAYREUTH
Q: King Stephen (1135-54) was the only king of which royal house? A: BLOIS
Q: First used in America, what name is given to a pub or restaurant that combines seafood and meat, such as steak and scampi? A: SURF 'n' TURF
Q: The garden plant syringa is commonly known as what? A: LILAC
Q: Name the only bachelor President of the U.S.A. A: JAMES BUCHANAN
Q: "Who siad ""I never forget a face, but in your case I'll make an exception""?" A: GROUCHO MARX
Q: Against which background is Dickens' novel 'A tale of two cities' based? A: THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
Q: What is the meaning of the Latin phrase 'Modus Vivendi'? A: WAY OF LIVING
Q: In which of the rooms of Buckingham Palace are investitures held? A: BALL ROOM
Q: Where in the human body is the cochlea? A: IN THE EAR
Q: "Which ""Games"" were first held in Buenos Aires in 1951 and then every four years?" A: THE PAN-AMERICAN GAMES
Q: Who is the only U.S. President to have been divorced? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: What name is given to a number system with base sixteen? A: HEXADECIMAL
Q: The Prairie Dog is a member of which family of rodents? A: SQUIRREL
Q: Name the town in South Central France which has made hard-paste porcelain since 1771. A: LIMOGES
Q: How many inches are there in a Hand, the unit used to measure the height of a horse? A: FOUR
Q: In which English county is Barnstaple? A: DEVON
Q: From what would you fear if you suffered from Gymnophobia? A: NUDITY
Q: Which six letter word links the nickname of a now obsolete British coin and the surname of a tennis player who lost to Bjorn Borg in a men’s singles final at Wimbledon ? A: TANNER
Q: Who was President Of The USA at the time of the Wall Street Crash ? A: Herbert HOOVER
Q: "Which famous novel, published in 1719 does the title character describe his home as ""The Island Of Despair"" ?" A: ROBINSON CRUSOE
Q: Specifically, where on the human body is the Axilla ? A: ARMPIT
Q: Which famous heavenly body shares it’s name with the second Astronomer Royal who held the position from 1720 to 1742 ? A: HALLEY'S COMET
Q: Which small island, situated in the middle of the South Atlantic was named after the day it was discovered in 1503 by Portuguese navigator Afonso De Albuquerque ? A: ASCENSION
Q: Which famous film actor, singer, music composer and author provided the voice of Shere Khan the tiger in the 1967 Disney animated film The Jungle Book ? A: GEORGE SANDERS
Q: Which North American State has the nickname The Peach State ? A: GEORGIA
Q: What is the first Christian name of ex British Prime Minister Gordon Brown ? A: JAMES
Q: Moses, Muriel, Mollie, Benjamin, Mr Whymper, Squealer and Minimus are all characters that appear in which famous novel of 1945 ? A: ANIMAL FARM
Q: Having a radius of 586 kilometres, what is the name of the largest satellite of the dwarf planet Pluto ? A: CHARON
Q: Which island, situated in the Canadian territory of Nanavut was discovered by Europeans in 1576 and is named after an English navigator who died in 1622 ? A: BAFFIN ISLAND
Q: Which North American State has the nickname The Badger State ? A: WISCONSIN
Q: Which astronaut, part of the Apollo 12 mission on November 19th 1969 became the 4th person to walk on the moon after Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Pete Conrad ? A: Alan BEAN
Q: Which astronaut, part of the Apollo 17 mission on December 11th 1972 became the last of two men to walk on the moon along with fellow astronaut Harrison Schmitt ? A: Eugene CERNAN
Q: Which London theatre has the same name as a silvery, white metal with the atomic number 46 ? A: PALLADIUM
Q: "Which chemical element, a strong, light metal with the atomic number 22 takes it’s name from the Greek for ""First Sons On Earth"" ?" A: TITANIUM
Q: 23 out of the first 24 highest peaks in England lie in the Lake District with Scafell Pike being the highest. Which is the peak that does not lie in the Lake District, it is the 11th highest in England at 893 metres in height and is situated in the North Pennines ? A: CROSS FELL
Q: What is the name of the all female Russian punk band that in 2012 were jailed for two Years for staging an anti Vladimir Putin protest in a Moscow Cathedral ? A: PUSSY RIOT
Q: An incident that occurred on November 19th 2002, in which European capital city did Pop star Michael Jackson create huge controversy when he dangled a baby from the fifth Floor of a hotel bedroom window ? A: BERLIN
Q: What is the surname of the four children in the Children’s book The Lion The Witch And The Wardrobe by C S Lewis ? A: PEVENSIE
Q: "Which Gilbert And Sullivan opera set in Asia featured the famous saying ""Let the punishment fit the crime"" ?" A: THE MIKADO
Q: "In which children’s comic did the character ""Roy Of The Rovers"" first appear in September 1954 ?" A: THE TIGER
Q: Elected on October 14th 2011, what is the name of the current Secretary of state for defence ? A: Phillip HAMMOND
Q: Introduced in 2006, What two word term was given to the optical disc storing medium, designed to be the successor to DVD, offering a much larger capacity and picture quality ? A: BLURAY
Q: Which Asian country’s flag consists of a single yellow star on a red background ? A: VIETNAM
Q: Ex US President George H W Bush was born in 1924, the same year as which other still living ex US President ? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: Apart from it’s current presenter Kirsty Young, who has been the only regular female presenter of the radio show Desert Island Discs, doing so from 1988 to 2006 ? A: SUE LAWLEY
Q: Which Gilbert And Sullivan opera that was introduced in 1889 opens to 24 Venetian young maidens binding white and red roses in posies to give to Marco and Giuseppe Palmeiri two persons that they all love ? A: THE GONDOLIERS
Q: Which Asian country’s flag consists of a large red disc on a green background ? A: BANGLADESH
Q: Introduced in 2007 what six letter name is given to the device described as being an e – book reader or a software and hardware platform designed by Amazon for the rendering of e – books and other digital media., they are often able to download over 1,000 books ? A: KINDLE
Q: Which county won the Cricket County Championship on six occasions during the 1960’s Including three consecutive titles in 1966, 1967 and 1968 ? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: Which county won the Cricket County Championship seven years in succession between 1952 and 1958 ? A: SURREY
Q: Clara Petacci, who lived from 1912 – 1945 was the mistress of which famous politician who lived from 1883 – 1945 ? A: Benito MUSSOLINI
Q: The Brenner Pass connects Italy with which other country ? A: AUSTRIA
Q: Which famous historical figure who lived from 1595 to 1617 was famously linked to English captain John Smith who arrived in her country with more than 100 settlers in April 1607 ? A: POCOHONTAS
Q: In 1971, the pop band Sakkarin under the production of Jonathan King reached number Twelve in the British pop charts with which record that had been a number one hit two Years earlier ? A: SUGAR, SUGAR
Q: Which famous novel, published in 1939 features the main family who are named Joad, a poor family of tenant farmers during the Great Depression ? A: THE GRAPES OF WRATH
Q: Which famous novel, published in 1922 is the main character and protagonist named Leopold Bloom and follows his encounters in Dublin ? A: ULYSSES
Q: What is the name of the Bridge in Southern France that opened in 2004, crossing the River Tarn in the Massif Central Mountains and with a height of 984 feet, it is the world’s highest Road bridge ? A: THE MILLAU
Q: Which renowned public school is situated in Godalming in Surrey ? A: CHARTERHOUSE
Q: Which renowned independent school is situated in Elgin in Moray ? A: GORDONSTOUN
Q: Which Austrian far right leader was killed in a car crash in October 2008 ? A: Jorg HAIDER
Q: The song ‘ Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas comes from which musical ? A: MEET ME IN ST LOUIS
Q: Which was the first English football club that Liverpool legend Bill Shankly managed ? A: CARLISLE UNITED
Q: Which actor played the role of Milton Arbogast, the detective who is killed on the stairs in the Hitchcock thriller Psycho ? A: MARTIN BALSAM
Q: What name is given in canoeing to a complete roll through 360 degrees to recover after cap-sizing ? A: ESKIMO ROLL
Q: Deborah Kerr played the female lead in the film version of which musical ? A: THE KING AND I
Q: In which European country are the head-quarters of the telecommunications company Nokia ? A: FINLAND
Q: In Greek mythology, whose wife was Clytemnestra ? A: AGAMEMNON
Q: Which Doctor Who actor did David Bradley play in the recent TV drama An Adventure In Space and Time ? A: WILLIAM HARTNELL
Q: Hansen's disease is another name for which bacterial infection ? A: LEPROSY
Q: What was the name of the street on which President Kennedy's limousine was travelling at the time of his assassination in 1963 ? A: ELM STREET
Q: Which member of Monty Python, who have announced they are planning a new stage show, was born in America ? A: TERRY GILLIAM
Q: Which term was coined to denote the followers of the 14th-century churchman John Wycliffe ? A: LOLLARDS
Q: In physics , which Greek letter is commonly used to denote torque ? A: TAU
Q: What is the literal meaning of the Japanese term 'hara-kiri', often used in the West as a synonym for ritual self-sacrifice ? A: CUTTING THE BELLY
Q: In Greek mythology, who rejected the nymph Echo who pined away until only her voice was left ? A: NARCISSUS
Q: Which BBC current affairs programme, the longest-running in the world, is 60 years old this year ? A: PANORAMA
Q: The dung of which mammal is known as spraint ? A: OTTER
Q: Which King of England reigned between the years 978 and 1016, succeeding his father Edgar and his half-brother Edward ? A: ETHELRED
Q: What in physics is the minimum amount of any physical entity involved in an interaction ? A: A QUANTUM
Q: Where in Florida is the Flag Building, the recently completed 'cathedral' of Scientology ? A: CLEARWATER
Q: Which aromatic herb is traditionally used as a symbol of remembrance ? A: ROSEMARY
Q: Deciduous dentition, seen in children, is better known by what name ? A: MILK TEETH
Q: Which member of the Monty Python team died in 1989 ? A: GRAHAM CHAPMAN
Q: Nellie Forbush is the female protagonist of which musical ? A: SOUTH PACIFIC
Q: Which of the territories of Canada has the city of Yellowknife as its capital ? A: THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES
Q: The English stately home created for the Earl of Carlisle in 1699 is still owned by his descendents, and still known by the family name. Which stately home is it? A: CASTLE HOWARD
Q: Ustinov, Van Mildert, and St Cuthbert's Society, are among the colleges which are constituent parts of which British university ? A: DURHAM
Q: The character of Hercule Poirot first appeared in which Agatha Christie story ? A: THE MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES
Q: When Lord Salisbury left office as Prime Minister in 1902, he was succeeded by his nephew. Who was that ? A: ARTHUR BALFOUR
Q: Which Austrian composer's works are given K numbers according to the 19th century Kochel catalogue ? A: MOZART
Q: In 1860, which Englishman invented an electric lamp some time before Edison registered his patent for the same device ? A: (SIR JOSEPH) SWAN
Q: Upminster and Wimbledon are termini of which London Underground line ? A: DISTRICT
Q: In which year did Argentina's Maradona score his infamous 'hand of God' goal? A: 1986
Q: Alcuin, Goodricke, Halifax, and Vanbrugh are among the colleges which are constituent parts of which British university ? A: YORK
Q: The radio telescope at Jodrell Bank is named after which physicist and astronomer ? A: SIR BERNARD LOVELL
Q: Edgeware and Morden are termini of which London Underground line ? A: NORTHERN
Q: The design of the Mathematical Bridge at Cambridge University is traditionally credited to which scientist (although he died some 20 years before the bridge was constructed) ? A: SIR ISAAC NEWTON
Q: The Santuari de Liuc monastery is considered the most important pilgrimage site on which Mediterranean island ? A: MAJORCA
Q: Which city, the largest on the Australian west coast, is the capital of the state of Western Australia ? A: PERTH
Q: Which spirit forms the basis of a Tom Collins cocktail ? A: GIN
Q: Which British rock group had a 1970 No.1 hit with In the Summertime ? A: MUNGO JERRY
Q: The film simply known as Star Wars on its first release in 1977 became Episode 4 in the eventual sequence of six films, and acquired a subtitle. What was the subtitle ? A: A NEW HOPE
Q: Which spirit forms the basis of a Pina Colada cocktail ? A: RUM
Q: King Ludwig II of Bavaria was the patron of which German composer ? A: WAGNER
Q: What name is given to the form of divination through books ? A: BIBLIOMANCY
Q: Which stately home in Derbyshire formed the backdrop to the famous historical romance between Dorothy Vernon and Sir John Manners ? A: HADDON HALL
Q: Curacao, off the Venezuelan coast, is a constituent country of which European kingdom ? A: NETHERLANDS
Q: In which year did Napoelon's troops capture Moscow ? A: 1812
Q: What is the capital of Indonesia ? A: JAKARTA
Q: What type of animal is the South African dik-dik ? A: ANTELOPE
Q: For which metal is Quicksilver another name ? A: MERCURY
Q: What type of pie is particularly associated with American Thanksgiving dinners? A: PUMPKIN PIE
Q: What is the longest book in the Old Testament ? A: PSALMS
Q: With which instrument is jazz musician 'Kid' Ory principally associated ? A: TROMBONE
Q: Which King of England was married to Anne of Bohemia ? A: RICHARD II
Q: Which British city forms the background to the 2013 TV series The Fall starring Gillian Anderson and Jamie Doran ? A: BELFAST
Q: In the Bible who was the father of twin sons, Jacob and Esau ? A: ISAAC
Q: The musical Man of La Mancha is based on the story of which hero ? A: DON QUIXOTE
Q: Which playwright was the designer of Blenheim Palace and Castle Howard ? A: (Sir John) VANBRUGH
Q: Which organ of the body is affected by nephritis ? A: THE KIDNEYS
Q: The Jewish language Yiddish is based on which other language ? A: GERMAN
Q: Established in 1951, which was Britain's first National Park ? A: THE PEAK DISTRICT
Q: Which jazz singer was known as 'The King of Hi de Ho' ? A: CAB CALLOWAY
Q: Pashto and Dari are the two official languages of which country ? A: AFGHANISTAN
Q: Which acid has the chemical formula HNO3 ? A: NITRIC ACID
Q: What is a young whale usually called ? A: A CALF
Q: Which sharp-tasting red fruit is used to make a sauce popular at Xmas and at Thanksgiving dinners ? A: CRANBERRY
Q: Which King of England was married to Caroline of Ansbach ? A: GEORGE II
Q: Who scored the winning goal of the 2013 FA Cup final ? A: BEN WATSON
Q: Which musical is based on the play The Matchmaker by Thornton Wilder ? A: HELLO DOLLY
Q: The four bronze lions that surround Nelson's column in Trafalgar Square were sculpted by which British artist ? A: (Sir Edwin) LANDSEER
Q: What is a young eel usually called ? A: ELVER
Q: Who founded Body Shop in 1976 ? A: ANITA RODDICK
Q: In the Arabian Nights, what was the name of the giant bird of prey supposedly able to carry off elephants ? A: ROC
Q: An orrery is a mechanical device used to illustrate what ? A: SOLAR SYSTEM
Q: Which sporting event, first held in July 1903, was the idea of Geo Lefevre, a journalist on L'Auto newspaper ? A: TOUR DE FRANCE
Q: Which country declared war on Japan - the day before the atomic bomb was dropped on Nagasaki ? A: SOVIET UNION
Q: In the coalition government who is the Business Secretary ? A: VINCE CABLE
Q: What is a cloud of gas and dust called in space ? A: NEBULA
Q: "Which work by Elgar is dedicated to ""My Friends Pictured Within"" ?" A: ENIGMA VARIATIONS
Q: What is the name of Victoria and David Beckham's daughter ? A: HARPER SEVEN
Q: In what decade were Zebra crossings introduced into law in the UK ? A: 1950's
Q: Which character in a novel by Charles Dickens lived at Satis House ? A: MISS HAVISHAM
Q: Which Conservative MP resigned as Government Chief Whip after the 'Plebgate' scandal ? A: ANDREW MITCHELL
Q: "The death of which world leader in April 1945 prompted Goebbels to exclaim: ""Bring out our best champagne!"" ?" A: FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
Q: What is the official London residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury ? A: LAMBETH PALACE
Q: In which Italian region is the port and city of Genoa located ? A: LIGURIA
Q: Who won The X Factor 2013 ? A: SAM BAILEY
Q: In Greek mythology, which beautiful young man was granted eternal sleep in order to remain forever young ? A: ENDYMION
Q: "Which British cyclist's last words during the 1967 Tour de France are said to have been "" Put me back on my bike "" ?" A: TOMMY SIMPSON
Q: In what decade were windscreen - displayed tax discs introduced ? A: 1920's
Q: Which Australian marsupial has 3 species, the Common, the Southern Hairy-nosed, and the Northern-Hairy nosed ? A: WOMBAT
Q: Who won Dancing On Ice 2013 ? A: BETH TWEDDLE
Q: In which region of Italy is the city of Turin ? A: PIEDMONT
Q: Where, in the strip cartoon, is the home village of Rupert Bear ? A: NUTWOOD
Q: David Mitchell is married to which TV quiz presenter and journalist ? A: VICTORIA COREN
Q: On 60's TV who had the nickname 'The Galloping Gourmet'? A: GRAHAM KERR
Q: Meles meles is the scientific name of which mammal ? A: BADGER
Q: Who preceded Phil Collins as lead singer with Genesis ? A: PETER GABRIEL
Q: Where in Mississippi was Elvis Presley born ? A: TUPELO
Q: 'The Worm that Turned', where women ruled the world, was a serial from which TV sketch show ? A: THE TWO RONNIES
Q: Which city is called Baile Atha Cliath in its native language ? A: DUBLIN
Q: For which healing process does the body produce the soluble protein fibrin ? A: BLOOD CLOTTING
Q: What part of a crustacean or turtle is the carapace ? A: SHELL
Q: Grossglockner is the highest mountain in which country ? A: AUSTRIA
Q: Who was appointed Governor of the Bahamas in 1940 ? A: DUKE OF WINDSOR
Q: Which building in Moscow started life as an insurance office and later became the headquarters of the KGB ? A: THE LUBYANKA
Q: In Greek mythology, Stheno and Euryale were the immortal sisters of whom ? A: MEDUSA
Q: What , during the First World War, was renamed 'liberty cabbage' in the UK and the US because of anti-German feeling ? A: SAUERKRAUT
Q: What's the famous tourist attraction to be found at a castle founded by Cormac McCarthy in County Cork ? A: THE BLARNEY STONE
Q: Which chemical element is named after the Greek for 'hidden one' ? A: KRYPTON
Q: Who sculpted the figure of the Statue of Liberty ? A: AUGUSTE BARTHOLDI
Q: The Liverpool FC anthem You'll Never Walk Alone comes from which Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ? A: CAROUSEL
Q: What, in the US, became known as a 'Liberty Sandwich' in World War 1 ? A: HAMBURGER
Q: 'Gourmet Night' and 'The Kipper and the Corpse' were the titles of episodes from which TV series ? A: FAWLTY TOWERS
Q: The name of which chemical element derives from the Greek word for 'lazy'? A: ARGON
Q: Who currently holds the title of Lord of Mann ? A: QUEEN ELIZABETH II
Q: Ulysees is the Roman equivalent of which name from ancient Greek mythology ? A: ODYSSEUS
Q: What name was given to the Nazi takeover of Austria in 1938 ? A: ANSCHLUSS
Q: Which branch of mathematics is named after the Latin word for pebble ? A: CALCULUS
Q: Which sporting venue was known for a time as Billy Williams' Cabbage Patch ? A: TWICKENHAM
Q: Which country has launched its Mars Orbiter spacecraft, also known as Mangalyaan, from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre ? A: INDIA
Q: What was the name of the Benedictine monk who became the first Archbishop of Canterbury ? A: ST AUGUSTINE
Q: What was the title of the only UK No. 1 hit for Dusty Springfield ? A: YOU DON'T HAVE TO SAY YOU LOVE ME
Q: In the Muppett shows, what is the name of Kermit the Frog's nephew ? A: ROBIN
Q: 'The Knowledge' that London taxi drivers need to learn is an intimate knowledge of all streets within a 6 mile radius of which London mainline station ? A: CHARING CROSS
Q: Which area of Czechoslovakia was transferred to Germany after the Munich conference of September 1938 ? A: SUDETENLAND
Q: Kielder Water is a large artificial reservoir in which English county ? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: Who designed the National Theatre building on the South Bank in London ? A: DENYS LASDUN
Q: The formula pi times radius squared times height gives the volume of which three-dimensional geometric shape ? A: A CYLINDER
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of grocers and police ? A: ST MICHAEL
Q: What is the more common name of the Chilean Pine ? A: MONKEY PUZZLE TREE
Q: Now the site of an airport, which former English racecourse staged the Grand National from 1916 to 1918 after Aintree was taken into use by the War Office ? A: GATWICK RACECOURSE
Q: What was the title of the only U.K. No.1 hit for the group The Dave Clark Five ? A: GLAD ALL OVER
Q: Which actor was the first director of the National Theatre ? A: LAURENCE OLIVIER
Q: What was the name of the drummer in TV's The Muppet Show ? A: ANIMAL
Q: What is the more common name of the wild hyacinth ? A: BLUEBELL
Q: Which Conservative politician has used the pseudonyms Michael Green and Sebastian Fox in his business life ? A: GRANT SHAPPS
Q: Which was the last four funnelled liner to be operated by the Cunard line ? A: AQUITANIA
Q: Which three-funnelled White Star liner was originally known as the Bismarck ? A: MAJESTIC
Q: George Osborne's family grew rich on the proceeds of what sort of business ? A: WALLPAPER
Q: Which London landmark gave its name to a now disused station situated after Tottenham Court Road on the Central Line ? A: BRITISH MUSEUM
Q: Which Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera has the alternative title The Town of Titipu ? A: THE MIKADO
Q: What is the English title of Strauss's operetta Die Fledermaus ? A: THE BAT
Q: What is the more familiar Biblical name for Lake Tiberias in Israel ? A: SEA OF GALILEE
Q: Which actor played Edward VIII in the TV series Edward and Mrs Simpson ? A: EDWARD FOX
Q: In which Scottish town do the football team St. Mirren play ? A: PAISLEY
Q: In our Solar System, which planet is the hottest, with a mean surface temperature of around 464 degrees ? A: VENUS
Q: What role is played by Mark Gattis in TV's Sherlock ? A: MYCROFT HOLMES
Q: What sort of professional people are allowed to carry green flashing lights on their cars ? A: DOCTORS
Q: Which actress won an Oscar for her role in The Queen ? A: HELEN MIRREN
Q: "In the Bible, who was described as ""mighty hunter before the lord"" ?" A: NIMROD
Q: The Herdwick is a breed of which domesticated animal ? A: SHEEP
Q: What was Dorothy Parker's reply when informed of the death of former US president, Calvin Coolidge ? A: """HOW CAN THEY TELL"""
Q: "The name of which curry-flavoured soup of Anglo-Indian origin means ""pepper water"" ?" A: MULLIGATAWNY
Q: In 1956, who became the first European Footballer of the Year ? A: (Sir) STANLEY MATTHEWS
Q: The existence of the planet Neptune was deduced in the 1840's from disturbances it caused in the orbit of which other planet ? A: URANUS
Q: Which African mammal, one of the first names in a dictionary, is also known as the ant bear ? A: AARDVARK
Q: "Which book opens with the words: ""No one would have believed in the last years of the nineteenth century, that human affairs were being watched keenly and closely by intelligences greater than man's .... "" ?" A: THE WAR OF THE WORLDS
Q: "Which book ends with the line: ""So I awoke, and behold it was a dream."" ?" A: THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS
Q: What role is played by Rupert Graves in TV's Sherlock ? A: INSPECTOR LESTRADE
Q: Which pasta dish is the favourite food of Garfield in the comic strip by Jim Davis ? A: LASAGNE
Q: The astronauts Dallas, Ripley, Kane, Lambert, Brett and Parker, are characters in which 1979 science fiction film ? A: ALIEN
Q: "Of which of his successors as US President did Lyndon Johnson make the comment: ""He can't fart and chew gum at the same time."" ?" A: GERALD FORD
Q: What is the British name given to German white wines originally from the Rhine area ? A: HOCK
Q: Gravidity is the technical word for what ? A: BEING PREGNANT
Q: Arthur Thistlewood led which failed conspiracy in 1820 ? A: CATO STREET CONSPIRACY
Q: What is the surname of the singer Adele ? A: ADKINS
Q: In which South American country is Mount Chimborazo the highest mountain ? A: ECUADOR
Q: Who replaced Rowan Williams as Archbishop of Canterbury ? A: JUSTIN WELBY
Q: In which UK town is the Catalyst Museum ? A: WIDNES
Q: Who wrote the melody of the song Keep the Home Fires Burning ? A: IVOR NOVELLO
Q: Who introduced the 'New Look' in women's fashion in February 1947 ? A: CHRISTIAN DIOR
Q: Who played the title role in the 1943 Hollywood film version of The Phantom of the Opera ? A: CLAUDE RAINES
Q: What is the star sign for the 1st August ? A: LEO
Q: On a rail journey from London to Brighton, from which London terminus station do you depart ? A: VICTORIA
Q: Who was Home Secretary at the time of the Sydney Street Siege of 1911 ? A: WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: What is the star sign for the 1st April ? A: ARIES
Q: Who played the title role in the 1962 Hammer film version of The Phantom of the Opera ? A: HERBERT LOM
Q: Which is the world's largest retailer ? A: WALMART
Q: Which Tuscan wine was traditionally packaged in a squat bottle enclosed in a straw basket, called a fiasco ? A: CHIANTI
Q: Which fashion designer famously brought out 'the Little Black Dress' ? A: COCO CHANEL
Q: Who wrote the song 'I'll See You Again' ? A: NOEL COWARD
Q: In which American state was the first atomic bomb detonated ? A: NEW MEXICO
Q: Who replaced Mervyn King as Governor of the Bank of England ? A: MARK CARNEY
Q: What is the highest mountain in France ? A: MONT BLANC
Q: On a rail journey from London to Dover, from which London terminus station do you depart ? A: CHARING CROSS
Q: What was the surname of the oil dynasty headed by JR in the TV series Dallas? A: EWING
Q: In the George Orwell novel Animal Farm, what sort of animal was Napoleon ? A: PIG
Q: Which horse won the 2013 Aintree Grand National ? A: AURORAS ENCORE
Q: Which composer married the celebrated pianist Clara Wieck in 1840 ? A: ROBERT SCHUMANN
Q: What's the name of Doctor Who's home planet ? A: GALLIFREY
Q: In a quote often attributed to Mark Twain, which sport is described as 'a good walk spoiled' ? A: GOLF
Q: Which piece of classical music was heard at the beginning of the Stanley Kubrick film 2001: A Space Odyssey ? A: ALSO SPRACH ZARATHUSTRA
Q: Which city would you visit to see the Frick Collection ? A: NEW YORK
Q: What is the more formal name for the shinbone ? A: TIBIA
Q: Which Yorkshire model village is named after its founder, Victorian industrialist Titis Salt, and a local river ? A: SALTAIRE
Q: Which British seabirds are known as 'clowns of the sea' or 'sea parrots' ? A: PUFFIN
Q: What is the name of the Cambridge University dramatic club whose presidents have included Peter Cook, Hugh Laurie and David Mitchell ? A: FOOTLIGHTS
Q: The process of Vulcanization , as applied to rubber, involves treating it with which chemical element before subjecting it to intense heat ? A: SULPHUR
Q: Who is the only Nobel laureate to have an entry in Wisden Cricketers' Almanac? A: SAMUEL BECKET
Q: On which planet did Davros create the Daleks ? A: SKARO
Q: At which fast food chain did British teenagers first start to go out for a hamburger and a coffee in 1955 ? A: WIMPEY
Q: For which government department did Anthony Trollope work before he became a full-time writer ? A: POST OFFICE
Q: In which year did rank outsider Foinavon unexpectedly win the Grand National? A: 1967
Q: What was the German codename for the proposed invasion of Great Britain in 1940 ? A: OPERATION SEALION
Q: If the race goes to plan, how many obstacles do the runners in the Grand National have to jump ? A: THIRTY
Q: Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 21 in C Major is often known nowadays by what nickname because of its use in a Swedish film of that name ? A: ELVIRA MADIGAN
Q: In the Hans Christian Andersen tale, of what were the Emperor's new clothes made ? A: NOTHING
Q: What is the more familiar name for vitamin B2 ? A: RIBOFLAVIN
Q: Where in Germany is the Glyptothek museum ? A: MUNICH
Q: Prime Minister David Cameron is an alumnus of which Oxford college ? A: BRASENOSE
Q: Which restaurant chain employed waitresses known as 'Nippies' ? A: J. LYONS & CO
Q: Which metal , with the atomic number 30, is used to coat iron or steel in the galvanizing process ? A: ZINC
Q: What sort of new town, the first in the UK being Letchworth, was proposed in a book of 1898 by Ebenezer Howard ? A: GARDEN CITY
Q: Thomas Hardy trained for which profession before he took up writing ? A: ARCHITECT
Q: Which London satirical venue was co-founded by Peter Cook and Nicholas Luard ? A: THE ESTABLISHMENT
Q: "Which British king was described by Henry James as ""Edward the Caresser"" ?" A: EDWARD VII
Q: In Greek mythology, which Titan supported the sky on his shoulders ? A: ATLAS
Q: By what name is the explosion that occurred in Siberia on 30th June 1908, possibly caused by a comet or asteroid, generally known ? A: THE TUNGUSKA
Q: What's the name of the unseen announcer on TV's University Challenge ? A: ROGER TILLING
Q: Of which artistic movement was Aubrey Beardsley a leading member ? A: THE AESTHETIC MOVEMENT
Q: The Minoan civilization was based on which island ? A: CRETE
Q: What nationality is the armaments firm Bofors ? A: SWEDISH
Q: Who was the only U.S. President to serve two non-consecutive terms ? A: GROVER CLEVELAND
Q: What was the name of 'The Little Mermaid' in the Disney film of the same name? A: ARIEL
Q: Which bird features on the Buckinghamshire flag ? A: WHITE SWAN
Q: Which of the 'chasers' on the ITV quiz show The Chase is nicknamed 'The Governess' ? A: ANNE HEGARTY
Q: Name the venue for the first Winter Olympic Games, held in 1924 ? A: CHAMONIX
Q: The city of Nineveh was a capital of which ancient Empire ? A: ASSYRIAN
Q: In which year was the Butler Education Act passed ? A: 1944
Q: With what type of technology is the Swedish firm Hasselblad most closely associated ? A: PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
Q: Which UK city has the motto Virtute et Industria ? A: BRISTOL
Q: In which year was the Open University founded ? A: 1969
Q: What type of fish is Nemo in the film Finding Nemo ? A: CLOWN FISH
Q: Which member of the Pre - Raphaelite group of artists painted the canvas known as The Scapegoat ? A: (William Holman) HUNT
Q: What is the highest peak in Northern Ireland ? A: SLIEVE DONARD
Q: What's the name of the seven branched candelabrum a traditional symbol of Judaism ? A: MENORAH
Q: In physics, whose constant is the quantity of electric charge carried by one mole of electrons ? A: FARADAY'S CONSTANT
Q: The mascot for the Brazil 2014 World Cup is what type of endangered animal ? A: ARMADILLO
Q: What is the Australian equivalent of the mythical beast known in the U.S. as Bigfoot and in the Himalayas as the yeti ? A: THE YOWIE
Q: According to Greek Mythology, what was the last thing that remained in Pandora's Box ? A: HOPE
Q: From which language does the word 'sauna' come ? A: FINNISH
Q: What is a more familiar name for deuterium oxide ? A: HEAVY WATER
Q: "Who said after her divorce from Tom Cruise: ""At last I can wear high heels again"" ?" A: NICOLE KIDMAN
Q: Which country was the birthplace of Henry V111’s fourth wife Anne Of Cleeves ? A: GERMANY
Q: Ann Darrow was the name of the leading female character in which famous film of The 1930’s ? A: KING KONG
Q: Which Northern English city has districts called Manningham, Heaton and Little Horton ? A: BRADFORD
Q: "Which popular Restaurant chain, launched in 1979 now has over 125 different outlets Originally had a mascot named Charlie Chalk and has the advertising slogan ""Pub Food As It Should Be"" ?" A: BREWER'S FAYRE
Q: Which moon of the planet Uranus shares it’s name with the daughter of Prospero in Shakespeare’s The Tempest ? A: MIRANDA
Q: If you were to order Rochebaron in a French restaurant, which food would you be served ? A: CHEESE
Q: If you were to order Fladenbrot in a German or Turkish restaurant, which food would You be served ? A: BREAD
Q: Which Southern English city has districts called Shirley, Bassett Green and Thornhill ? A: SOUTHAMPTON
Q: Which English author wrote the 1885 novel King Solomon’s Mines ? A: H Rider HAGGARD
Q: Marion Crane was the name of the leading female character of which famous film of The 1960’s ? A: PSYCHO
Q: William F Lamb from the construction firm Shreve, Lamb and Harmon was the designer Of which famous construction that first opened in 1931 ? A: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
Q: Which year saw the kidnap of the racehorse Shergar, the introduction of the TV gameshow Blockbusters and the deaths of David Niven and Violet Carson ? A: 1983
Q: Which year saw Frankie Detori famously win all six races on the card at Ascot, the introduction Of the TV gameshow Never Mind The Buzzcocks and the deaths of Jon Pertwee and Peter Swales ? A: 1996
Q: Written about in the Bible, what eleven letter word is used to describe the area of land That covers the region of South West Asia and lies nearly the full length of the Iran/Iraq border It declined in importance after Mongol invaders destroyed it’s extensive irrigation system In A D 1258 ? A: MESOPOTAMIA
Q: First shown in 1976, which ITV series featured Gareth Hunt as the character Mike Gambit ? A: THE NEW AVENGERS
Q: Which snooker player who reached the semi final of the 2013 World Snooker Championship Was born in Chester in 1982 ? A: RICKY WALDEN
Q: Which TV series, launched in 1978 saw Bob Hoskins as Arthur Parker, a sheet music Salesman attempting to make his dreams fit the promises of the lyrics he carries ? A: PENNIES FROM HEAVEN
Q: What seven letter name is given to the cold, dry Northerly wind that blows on the Mediterranean Coast of France, particularly concentrated on the Rhone Valley ? A: MISTRAL
Q: Which darts player who won the world BDO Title in 2008 was born in Denbigh in 1983 ? A: MARK WEBSTER
Q: Holding the position from 1979 to 1983, who was the first Chancellor Of The Exchequer Under Margaret Thatcher ? A: GEOFFREY HOWE
Q: Holding the position from 1993 to 1997, who was the last Chancellor Of The Exchequer Under Margaret Thatcher ? A: KENNETH CLARKE
Q: "Which UK number one single of 1969 had the opening lyrics ""You talk like Marlene Dietrich And you dance like Zizi Jeanmaire"" ?" A: WHERE DO YOU GO TO MY LOVELY
Q: What was the name of the treaty that was signed by Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg Netherlands and West Germany on March 25th 1957 that was an international agreement That led to the founding of the EEC ? A: TREATY OF ROME
Q: Which is the next prime number that is greater than 75 ? A: 79
Q: A Numismatist is a person who has an interest and collects which particular items ? A: COINS
Q: Which famous American author who lived from 1904 to 1997 had the first christan name Theodor and the surname Geisel ? A: DR SEUSS
Q: Kenya shares the vast majority of it’s East border with which country ? A: SOMALIA
Q: Which 1981 children’s novel by Roald Dahl sees the main character give his grandmother A potion that consists of many harmful products in the house which he boils only to end up Seeing her grow to a size taller than a house ? A: GEORGE'S MARVELOUS MEDICINE
Q: Which is the next prime number that is greater than 90 ? A: 97
Q: What seven letter name was given to the type of two wheeled cart that was used during The French Revolution to take prisoners to the Guillotine ? A: TUMBREL
Q: What seven letter name is given to the light vehicle with three wheels and pedals used In South East Asia to carry usually two passengers ? A: TRISHAW
Q: On which British motorway can you find Burtonwood and Birch Services ? A: M62
Q: What eight letter name is given to the ringing, hissing or booming sensation in one or Both ears, usually caused by infection of the middle or inner ear ? A: TINNITUS
Q: Which Children’s animated TV series, broadcast between 1964 and 1965 centred on the Adventures of an 11 year old boy, his scientist father named Dr Benton, bodyguard Roger Bannon and an eleven year old Calcutta orphan named Hadji Singh ? A: JONNY QUEST
Q: What two word hyphenated term is used to describe the contagious, epidemic form of Acute Conjunctivitis, so called from the colour of the inflammation ? A: PINK-EYE
Q: Which famous author, born in Sandymount, County Dublin in 1865 won the Nobel Prize For Literature in 1923 ? A: W B YEATS
Q: Which famous author, born in Dublin in 1856 won the Nobel Prize For Literature In 1925 ? A: GEORGE BERNARD SHAW
Q: Who were the last county to be admitted into the County championship ? A: DURHAM
Q: Who was editor of the News Of The World newspaper at the time of it’s closure ? A: COLIN MYLER
Q: Which bookmaker was founded in 1988 by the merger of 40 shops of three Irish bookmakers ? A: PADDY POWER
Q: Which famous film director was born on December 5th 1901 at Tripp Avenue in Chicago and died on December15th 1966 in Burbank, California? A: WALT DISNEY
Q: Which Welsh golfer won the award for BBC Sports Personality Of The Year in 1957 ? A: DAI REES
Q: Published in 1992, which American author wrote the famous book Men Are From Mars Women Are From Venus ? A: John GRAY
Q: Which village in Lincolnshire is home to the aerobatics display team The Red Arrows ? A: SCAMPTON
Q: Cordoba is the second most highly populated city of which country ? A: ARGENTINA
Q: """I Whistle A Happy Tune"" and ""Getting To Know You"" are two songs from Which stage musical of 1951 ?" A: THE KING AND I
Q: Which famous film director was born on August 13th 1899 in Leytonstone near London and died on April 29th 1980 in Bel Air California ? A: ALFRED HITCHCOCK
Q: Which town in Southern England is home to the Royal National Lifeboat Institution ? A: POOLE
Q: Published in 1980, which American author wrote the book The Bourne Identity ? A: Robert LUDLUM
Q: Philippa Of Hainault was the wife of which English King ? A: EDWARD III
Q: Puente Alto is the second most highly populated city of which country ? A: CHILE
Q: Who directed the films The Damned United in 2009 and Les Miserables in 2012 ? A: TOM HOOPER
Q: Which motor company produces car models such as The Picanto, The Soul and The Carens A: KIA
Q: H2CO3 is the molecular formula for which acid ? A: CARBONIC
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet when written as a capital looks like a triangle ? A: DELTA
Q: Which motor company produces car models such as The Panamera, The Cayenne and the Boxster ? A: PORSCHE
Q: HNO3 is the molecular formula for which acid ? A: NITRIC
Q: Which dance move was a popular dance craze of 1962, the move vaguely resembled that Of the twist and was danced to a version of it by soul singer Dee Dee Sharp ? A: MASHED POTATO
Q: What eight letter word is given to delicate and intricate ornamental work made from gold Silver or other fine, twisted wire ? A: FILIGREE
Q: "Which famous song from the musical South Pacific contains the lyrics ""You may see a Stranger across a crowded room""" A: SOME ENCHANTED EVENING
Q: Which French port was the first port of call for the ill fated ship The Titanic after it had left Southampton on April 10th 1912 ? A: CHERBOURG
Q: On the morning of April the 11th 1912 the ill fated ship The Titanic made it’s last scheduled stop in Europe at which Irish venue ? A: QUEENSTOWN
Q: What was the title of the record sung by Clodagh Rogers when she represented the UK at the 1971 Eurovision Song Contest ? A: JACK IN THE BOX
Q: "Which Italian foodstuff which comprises of dumplings made of flour, semolina or potatoes boiled or baked and served with grated cheese or sauce takes it’s name from the Italian for ""Knock On Wood"" ?" A: GNOCCHI
Q: Which European capital city is served by Henri Coanda Airport ? A: BUCHAREST
Q: Which African bird is famous for it’s ability to be able to walk up to twenty miles a day and also for it’s ability to kill snakes by stamping on them with it’s large feet ? A: SECRETARY BIRD
Q: What is the money currency of the country of Croatia ? A: KUNA
Q: Which American cartoonist was the creator of the popular 1931 comic strip Dick Tracy ? A: Chester GOULD
Q: In mythology, if Mars was the Roman god of war, who was the Greek equivalent ? A: ARES
Q: Which European capital city is served by Vaclav Havel Airport ? A: PRAGUE
Q: In mythology, if Vulcan was the Roman god of fire, who was the Greek equivalent ? A: HEPHAESTUS
Q: "Which famous song from the musical Oklahoma contains the lyrics ""The Corn Is High As An Elephant’s Eye"" ?" A: OH WHAT A BEAUTIFUL MORNING
Q: What is the money currency of the country of Hungary ? A: FORINT
Q: Which American cartoonist was responsible for the popular 1934 comic strip Flash Gordon ? A: Alex RAYMOND
Q: Who was executed in 1955 at Holloway Prison for the murder of racing driver David Blakely ? A: RUTH ELLIS
Q: Who was executed in 1953 at Wandsworth Prison for the murder of Police Constable Sidney Miles ? A: DEREK BENTLEY
Q: Which 1972 novel by Frederick Forsyth tells the story of a Peter Miller, a young German crime reporter who is attempting to find an SS concentration camp commander who had Killed his father ? A: THE ODESSA FILE
Q: "Which six letter word of Japanese origin means ""Ten Thousand Years Of Life"" although foreigners confuse it with a war cry referring meaning ""Human Wave Attacks"" ?" A: BANZAI
Q: Which Australian won the men’s singles title at Wimbledon in 1964 and 1965? A: ROY EMERSON
Q: Which 1974 novel by Frederick Forsyth features a small group of African and European mercenary soldiers hired by a British industrialist to depose the government of the fictional African country of Zangaro ? A: THE DOGS OF WAR
Q: Apart from England, which European country was a chief setting for the James Bond film Goldfinger ? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Donald Tusk aged 56 is the current Prime Minister of which country ? A: POLAND
Q: Viktor Orban aged 50 is the current Prime Minister of which country ? A: HUNGARY
Q: What is the name of Oxford University’s Cricket Ground ? A: THE PARKS
Q: On TV, if Pete Waterman was the Hitman, who was Her ? A: MICHAELA STRACHAN
Q: In which year was corporal punishment officially banned in British State Schools ? A: 1986
Q: Reaching number one in the British pop charts in May 1996, what was the two word title of the record that was performed by David Baddiel and Frank Skinner accompanied by the band The Lightning Seeds that was the official England song for the 1996 European Football Championships ? A: THREE LIONS
Q: What was the famous two word title that was given to Henry Stewart who was King Consort Of Scotland between 1565 and 1567 and was married to Mary Queen Of Scots ? A: LORD DARNLEY
Q: Published in 1968, what was the four word title of the autobiography of the gay icon Quentin Crisp ? A: THE NAKED CIVIL SERVANT
Q: Who was the victorious commander in the conflict known as The Battle Of Santa Clara that lasted from December 28th 1958 till January 1st 1959, he died on October 9th 1967 aged 39 ? A: CHE GUEVARA
Q: On how many occasions did Jimmy Connors win the men’s singles title at Wimbledon ? A: TWICE
Q: Who was the victorious leader in the conflict known as The Battle Of Washita River that took place on November 27th 1868, he died on June 25th 1876 aged 36 ? A: George CUSTER
Q: What type of creatures, native to Africa and Asia have several different types, including Olive, Yellow, Chacma and Hamadryas ? A: BABOON
Q: What was the famous four word nickname that was given to Edward I of England also known as Edward Longshanks ? A: HAMMER OF THE SCOTS
Q: On how many occasions did John McEnroe win the men's singles title at Wimbledon ? A: THREE
Q: In the human body, what seven letter word describes the loss of the sense of taste ? A: AGEUSIA
Q: Sixty three year old Sebastian Pinera is the current president of which South American country ? A: CHILE
Q: Introduced in 1977, what is the name of the scheme in the UK that enables disabled people, their family and carers to lease a new car, scooter or powered wheelchair using their Government funded allowance ? A: MOTABILITY
Q: A Long Walk To Freedom, published in 1995 was the autobiography of which famous Political figure ? A: NELSON MANDELA
Q: Which is the oldest of the 31 colleges of the University Of Cambridge ? A: PETERHOUSE
Q: Which is the oldest of the 38 colleges of the University Of Oxford ? A: UNIVERSITY
Q: "Which British bandleader who lived from 1899 to 1969 would you associate with the song ""Somebody Stole My Gal"" recorded in 1931 ?" A: BILLY COTTON
Q: What is the name of the former cabinet minister who, in March 2013 was jailed, along With his ex wife Vicky Price after she agreed to take his speeding points to avoid him losing his licence ? A: Chris HUHNE
Q: In which English county is the source of the River Trent ? A: STAFFORDSHIRE
Q: "Which British poet who died in 1850 created works such as ""An Evening Walk"" in 1793, ""Upon Westminster Bridge"" in 1802 and ""The Waggoner"" in 1818 ?" A: William WORDSWORTH
Q: Which English cartoonist and author who died in 2011 was responsible for the creation of the fictional school St Trinian's ? A: Ronald SEARLE
Q: The 1954 film Demetrius And The Gladiators was the sequel to which film of 1953 ? A: THE ROBE
Q: Which three word named plant is believed to be useful in treating depression, nervous disorders and bedwetting ? A: ST JOHN'S WORT
Q: What was the name of short tempered opponent of the cartoon character Bugs Bunny described as being an extremely grouchy gun slinging prospector, outlaw, pirate or cowboy With a violent temper and an intense hatred of rabbits ? A: YOSEMITE SAM
Q: "Which British independent record label, launched in 1970 by music publisher David Platz was favoured by the band T Rex, including their hits ""Ride A White Swan"", ""Hot Love"", ""Get It On"" and ""Jeepster"" ?" A: FLY
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the Iranian Embassy siege in London ? A: 1980
Q: First appearing in the Book Of Exodus, what was the name of the sister of Moses who hid the baby Moses by the side of a river to evade Pharaoh's order that all newborn Hebrew boys were to be killed ? A: MIRIAM
Q: "Which American record label, launched in 1901 by Emile Berliner and Eldridge R JohnsonWas favoured by the band The Sweet, including their hits ""Blockbuster"", ""Ballroom Blitz"", ""Wig Wam Bam"" and ""Hell Raiser"" ?" A: RCA
Q: Former British surgeon Andrew Wakefield became famous in 1998 with his publication Of his research paper which claimed that the vaccine MMR was linked with which human condition ? A: AUTISM
Q: Which year of the 20th century saw the Chernobyl disaster ? A: 1986
Q: What is the name of the girlfriend of the cartoon character Yogi Bear ? A: CINDY
Q: The Ipcress File, published in 1962 was the very first novel for which British Author ? A: LEN DEIGHTON
Q: Which football club have appeared in 13 FA Cup finals, winning five and losing eight their first final appearance was in 1893 ? A: EVERTON
Q: Which football club have appeared in 14 FA Cup finals, winning seven and losing seven. Their first final appearance was in 1914 ? A: LIVERPOOL
Q: Who was British Prime Minister on the day the Great Train Robbery took place ? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: "Which American TV director and producer who died in 1991 was responsible for 1960's TV shows such as ""Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea"", ""Lost In Space"" and ""Land Of The Giants"" ?" A: IRWIN ALLEN
Q: Who was British Prime Minister on the day Roger Bannister ran the first four minute mile ? A: WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: "Which American TV producer who died in 1987 was responsible for 1960'S TV shows such as ""The Untouchables"", ""The Fugitive"" and ""The Invaders"" ?" A: QUINN MARTIN
Q: Which five words appeared as front page headline on the front of the Sun Newspaper on March 13th 1986, it was in connection to a famous British comedian who is now aged 70 ? A: FREDDIE STARR ATE MY HAMSTER
Q: Which prominent English architect now aged 74 was responsible for designing The Eden Project and the National Space Centre in Leicester ? A: Nicholas GRIMSHAW
Q: William Shakespeare gave his only son a name that was only one letter different from the name of one of his plays, what was that son's name ? A: HAMNET
Q: What was the name of the twin sister of the only son of William Shakespeare, the first two letters of her name are the same as one of his works most famous characters ? A: JUDITH
Q: Which unit of measurement is defined as being exactly 1,852 metres ? A: NAUTICAL MILE
Q: Which was the first English football club to be beaten in a European Cup Final ? A: LEEDS UTD
Q: An arm of the Mediterranean Sea In the Eastern part of which sea can you find the Greek island of Corfu ? A: IONIAN
Q: Along with potatoes which are mashed, what is the main vegetable used in the dish 'Anglesey Eggs' ? A: LEEKS
Q: What is the name of the 'Beauty' in the famous story Beauty And The Beast ? A: BELLE
Q: Which material that is used for insulation is described as being two incombustible, chemical resistant fibrous mineral forms of impure magnesium silicate, used mainly for fireproofing, electrical insulation, building materials, brake linings and chemical filters ? A: ASBESTOS
Q: If you were served food in a French restaurant 'En Brochette' how exactly would it be presented ? A: ON A SKEWER
Q: What is the name of the 'Phantom' in the famous story Phantom Of The Opera? A: ERIK
Q: Which material, invented by Alfred Fielding and Marc Chavannes and used to protect damage Was originally used as a textured wallpaper and celebrated 50 years of popular use in 2010 ? A: BUBBLEWRAP
Q: Sharing it's name with a model of Rolls Royce Car, which French word is used for a road that runs along the side of a cliff or mountain ? A: CORNICHE
Q: Sharing it's name with a model of Ford car, which word, also a Portugese surname is used to describe a horse colour that consists of large patches of white and another colour ? A: PINTO
Q: Designed in 1873 in the USA, which lever action rifle that later had several different models had the nickname 'The Gun That Won The West' ? A: WINCHESTER
Q: Which now 85 year old American author wrote the 1971 book The Exorcist ? A: WILLIAM PETER BLATTY
Q: What eight letter word is the name of the test performed to discover colour blindness ? A: ISHIHARA
Q: The 1969 novel The Siege Of Trencher's Farm by author Gordon Williams was later adapted into which highly controversial film of 1971 ? A: STRAW DOGS
Q: Living from 1814 to 1862, what was the Christian name of the American inventor famous for the Colt Revolver ? A: SAMUEL
Q: What seven letter word is the name of the chart containing letters of various sizes commonly found in doctor's surgeries for eye sight tests ? A: SNELLEN
Q: What was the name of the famous jazz music nightclub situated in Harlem in New York City, seen as a white only establishment between 1923 and 1940 it attracted names such as Louis Armstrong, Ella Fitzgerald and Nat King Cole amongst many others ? A: COTTON CLUB
Q: Built in 1889, what is the name of the cabaret club in Paris, famous for being the venue where the modern form of the dance the Can Can originate ? A: MOULIN ROUGE
Q: Born in Armagh on April 6th 1928, what is the more famous name of the politician and former church minister who is also known as Baron Bannside ? A: IAN PAISLEY
Q: Which theatre, situated in Salford and opened in the year 2,000 is named after a British painter who lived from 1887 to 1976 ? A: LOWRY
Q: Which ex President of the National Union Of Mineworkers was revealed as being a police informer after his death in 1993 ? A: JOE GORMLEY
Q: Which Lord Protector of England, Scotland and Ireland who was born in 1626 had The nickname 'Tumbledown Dick' ? A: RICHARD CROMWELL
Q: Which act that once represented the UK in the Eurovision Song Contest shares it's name with the title of a record that reached number two in the UK Pop Charts for the group The Sweet in 1971 ? A: CO-CO
Q: Which Labour Party politician, now aged 50 took over the post as President Of The National Union Of Mineworkers from Arthur Scargill in 2002, holding the position until 2010 ? A: Ian LAVERY
Q: Born in Belfast in 1948, the name of which former member of Sinn Fein translates into Irish as 'Gearoid Mac Adhaimh' ? A: GERRY ADAMS
Q: Which actor played the role of Tom The Policeman, one of the travelling companions of Dr Who in the 1966 film Daleks Invasion Earth 2150 AD ? A: BERNARD CRIBBINS
Q: Which theatre, situated in Manchester shares it's name with the name of a Greek God who was the son of Zeus and Leto and twin brother of Artemis ? A: APOLLO
Q: Which British monarch who was born in 1765 had the nickname 'The Sailor King' ? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: Made in July 2006, which city saw US President George W Bush famously say the words ‘Yo Blair, how are you doing‘ at a G8 meeting ? A: ST PETERSBURG
Q: Having a name meaning ‘Swift Seizer‘ which dinosaur had the description as being about 6 feet 5 inches in length, it had long curved claws for grasping prey and walked on two legs ? A: VELOCIRAPTOR
Q: Having a name meaning ‘Winged Finger‘ which dinosaur was described as being a long slender, powerful creature with long narrow jaws, sharp teeth and a wingspan of approximately 3 feet 3 inches ? A: PTERODACTYL
Q: What was the maiden name of the mother of William Shakespeare ? A: ARDEN
Q: In office from March 4th 1897 until September 14th 1901, who was the first US President of the 20th century ? A: William McKINLEY
Q: What nationality was Jules Rimet, the presenter of football's first world cup in 1930 ? A: FRENCH
Q: What was the Christian name of the father of William Shakespeare ? A: JOHN
Q: Which stage show with music by Willie Russell ends with an emotional song entitled 'Tell Me It's Not True' ? A: BLOOD BROTHERS
Q: What nationality is current FIFA President Sepp Blatter ? A: SWISS
Q: In office from March 4th 1797 until March 4th 1801, who was the first US President of the 19th century ? A: John ADAMS
Q: Which stage show with music by Claude  Michael Schonberg ends with an emotional song entitled 'Do You Hear The People Sing' ? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: Covering an area in excess of 130,000 square miles, in which country can you find the 'Taklamakan Desert' the largest to lie wholly in it's own country ? A: CHINA
Q: The trio The Andrews Sisters consisted of Patty, Maxine and which other ? A: LAVERNE
Q: Which European capital city was once known as Christiania ? A: OSLO
Q: Which Peugeot model won the award for European Car Of The Year in 1988 ? A: 405
Q: "Which Welsh writer's last words are said to have been "" I've had eighteen straight whiskies. I think that's the record. "" ?" A: DYLAN THOMAS
Q: The principle that 'work expands to fill the time available' is known as whose law ? A: PARKINSON'S
Q: In the card game 'Happy Families', how many cards make up a complete family ? A: FOUR
Q: In the original version of the board game Trivial Pusuit, how many subject categories are there ? A: SIX
Q: Which commonly used acid has the formula HNO3 ? A: NITRIC ACID
Q: What type of creature is a muntjac ? A: DEER
Q: Which European city was destroyed by an earthquake in 1753 ? A: LISBON
Q: In the Spanish language, what sort of meat is jamon ? A: HAM
Q: With whom did Karl Marx write The Communist Manifesto ? A: FRIEDRICH ENGELS
Q: In which calendar year did the following events all take place: Alfred Hitchcock died, Ronald Reagan was elected as President of the USA, and the Summer Olympic Games were held in Moscow ? A: 1980
Q: Which musical, for long entrenched at the Palace theatre in London, is currently running at the Queens theatre ? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol C and atomic number 6 ? A: CARBON
Q: Although not called a lake as such, what is usually said to be the western-most lake in the English Lake District ? A: ENNERDALE WATER
Q: Who played chief villain Spats Columbo in the classic comedy movie 'Some Like It Hot' ? A: GEORGE RAFT
Q: In Greek mythology, the Titan Mnemosyne was the personification of what ? A: MEMORY
Q: Who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914 ? A: GAVRILLO PRINCIP
Q: Who won this year's cycling Tour of Britain ? A: SIR BRADLEY WIGGINS
Q: Which musical, the winner of 9 Tony awards, is currently running at the Prince of Wales theatre in London ? A: THE BOOK OF MORMON
Q: Which European capital owes much of its layout to Baron Haussmann ? A: PARIS
Q: Which social media attraction was founded in 2006 by Jack Dorsey, Biz Stone and Evan Williams ? A: TWITTER
Q: What type of fish is a Megamouth ? A: SHARK
Q: Where in London did the Rolling Stones play in 2013 for the first time since 1969 ? A: HYDE PARK
Q: In which film did Jack Lemmon play the role of Professor Fate ? A: THE GREAT RACE
Q: Which commission published its report on the assassination of President Kennedy on September 17, 1964 ? A: WARREN COMMISSION
Q: What is the clinical word for the navel or belly button ? A: UMBILICUS
Q: Arreciffe is the capital of which of the Canary Islands ? A: LANZAROTE
Q: Which British-born aviatrix is credited with being the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic from east to west ? A: BERYL MARKHAM
Q: Coir is the name given to the fibre from which fruit ? A: COCONUT
Q: The term 'Time Immemorial' was set as the period before the reign of which English king ? A: RICHARD I
Q: Whose new solo album - his first in 14 years - is called Since I Saw You Last ? A: GARY BARLOW
Q: In Roman mythology, who was the guardian of gates and doors ? A: JANUS
Q: In which town or city are the headquarters of the Wetherspoons pub chain ? A: WATFORD
Q: For which ancient ruler was the Mausoleum at Harlicarnassus built ? A: MAUSOLUS
Q: Who is the mother of the actor and director Samuel West ? A: PRUNELLA SCALES
Q: Which Australian attraction is known as 'The Coathanger' ? A: SYDNEY HARBOUR BRIDGE
Q: Which Australian attraction is also known as Uluru ? A: AYERS ROCK
Q: The Statue of Zeus, sculpted by Phidias , was located at which place in Greece ? A: OLYMPIA
Q: Which island group in the Indian Ocean, a popular tourist destination, has the city of Victoria as its capital ? A: SEYCHELLES
Q: Which herb is principally associated with Bearnaise sauce ? A: TARRAGON
Q: Which sport, known as jeu de paume in France , is still played at Hampton Court Palace ? A: REAL TENNIS
Q: The American microbiologist Albert Bruce Sabin is noted for his invention of a vaccine, usually known by his name, for which once-common condition? A: POLIO
Q: In Indian houses, what word denoted a primitive type of ceiling fan consisting of a large flap of cloth operated by a rope ? A: A PUNKAH
Q: Who is the mother of actress Rachel Stirling ? A: DAME DIANA RIGG
Q: Who was the last U.S. astronaut to go alone into space ? A: GORDON COOPER
Q: Name the only English monarch to belong to the House of Blois. A: STEPHEN
Q: Who wrote the orchestral work Carnival of the Animals in 1886 ? A: SAINT-SAENS
Q: What spirit is the base of a Black Russian cocktail ? A: VODKA
Q: The films of which director include Moulin Rouge and Strictly Ballroom ? A: BAZ LUHRMANN
Q: Which French phrase commonly used in English means literally 'bottom of the bag' ? A: CUL DE SAC
Q: Who chairs the Radio 4 comedy panel game The News Quiz ? A: SANDI TOKSVIG
Q: Which former England football manager recently took charge of Derby County? A: STEVE MCLAREN
Q: The original 'Star Trek' TV series was set in which century ? A: 23RD
Q: Queen Anne was the second daughter of which king ? A: JAMES II
Q: What is the main currency unit of Hungary ? A: FORINT
Q: What does a candela measure ? A: LUMINOUS INTENSITY
Q: At his own request, which writer's auto-biography was published in 2010, one hundred years after his death ? A: MARK TWAIN
Q: The Egyptian god Anubis has the head of what type of creature ? A: JACKAL
Q: Henrietta Maria of France was queen consort of which English monarch ? A: CHARLES I
Q: How many cards are there in a typical tarot pack ? A: 78
Q: Which lines on a map connect points with equal atmospheric pressure ? A: ISOBARS
Q: Which eating disorder is named after the Greek for 'ox hunger' ? A: BULIMIA
Q: Which Enterprise captain in Star Trek: The Next Generation had the catchphrase 'Make it so' ? A: JEAN-LUC PICARD
Q: The Triskelion is used as the symbol for which part of the British Isles ? A: ISLE OF MAN
Q: Every January , the inhabitants of Lerwick on the Shetland Islands burn a full-size replica of what ? A: VIKING LONGSHIP
Q: In which country was Manchester United's new 18-year old signing Adrian Januzaj born ? A: BELGIUM
Q: Which American singer was known as 'The Big O' ? A: ROY ORBISON
Q: In computing , for what does the acronym LAN stand ? A: LOCAL AREA NETWORK
Q: From which plant is the Mexican drink tequila distilled ? A: (The blue) AGAVE
Q: In mythology , which bird can be reborn from its own ashes ? A: PHOENIX
Q: Who chairs the Radio 4 programme Round Britain Quiz ? A: TOM SUTCLIFFE
Q: What is the longest river in Italy ? A: THE PO
Q: How is the plant monstera deliciosa better known ? A: SWISS CHEESE PLANT
Q: What was the host city of the 1984 Summer Olympics ? A: LOS ANGELES
Q: How many bells signify the end of a nautical watch ? A: EIGHT
Q: In which of London's Royal Parks is Speakers' Corner located ? A: HYDE PARK
Q: In Shakespeare's Richard III, the Duke of Clarence is famously drowned in a vat of what type of wine ? A: MALMSEY
Q: Swanhilde is the lead role in which ballet ? A: COPPELIA
Q: Biltong is a cured meat from which country ? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: Before entering government, Neville Chamberlain was lord mayor of which city ? A: BIRMINGHAM
Q: Which noises did Spanish censors remove from the film Blazing Saddles ? A: BREAKING WIND
Q: In which country did wafu salad dressing originate ? A: JAPAN
Q: Americans call them thumbtacks; what do we call them ? A: DRAWING PINS
Q: What was the name of Scooby Doo's nephew, whose catchphrase was 'Puppy Power' ? A: SCRAPPY DOO
Q: Which city hosted the 1976 Summer Olympic Games ? A: MONTREAL
Q: The ballet Pineapple Poll features music by which composer ? A: ARTHUR SULLIVAN
Q: What item of playground equipment is known in North America as a teeter-totter ? A: SEE-SAW
Q: Tower Bridge in London is an example of what kind of bridge ? A: BASCULE
Q: What drink, a type of fortified wine, was a favourite tipple of Shakespeare's Falstaff ? A: SACK
Q: The Australian kookaburra is one of the largest species of which bird ? A: KINGFISHER
Q: In which year was the pound coin introduced to replace the Bank of England £1 banknote ? A: 1983
Q: What's the name of Postman Pat's cat ? A: JESS
Q: Which fastening system was developed by Swiss inventor George de Mestral? A: VELCRO
Q: How many masts does the vessel known as a Ketch have ? A: TWO
Q: Who became the 120th Briton to win a Nobel Prize by winning this year's prize for physics ? A: PETER HIGGS
Q: Which British Prime Minister was nicknamed 'The Grocer' by Private Eye magazine ? A: EDWARD HEATH
Q: The birth of which Roman goddess is famously the subject of a 1486 painting by Sandro Botticelli ? A: VENUS
Q: How many pockets are there on a standard snooker table ? A: SIX
Q: In which city was the International Committee of the Red Cross founded in 1863 ? A: GENEVA
Q: A tiger called Richard Parker appears in which novel by Yann Martel ? A: LIFE OF PI
Q: Which was the second James Bond film to star Daniel Craig in the title role ? A: QUANTUM OF SOLACE
Q: Who was Britain's first female Foreign Secretary and the first female leader of the Labour Party ? A: MARGARET BECKET
Q: In Virgil's Aeneid, who was the Queen of Carthage who fell in love with Aeneas? A: DIDO
Q: What nickname were the British Parachute Regiment given by the Germans during the Second World War ? A: THE RED DEVILS
Q: Telly Savalas played the role of Ernst Stavro Blofeld in which James Bond film? A: ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE
Q: Which capital city was planned by Pierre l'Enfant in the 1790s ? A: WASHINGTON DC
Q: Which geological era, spanning the massive time-period between 245 million and 65 million years ago, is divided into three periods named the Triassic, the Jurassic and the Cretaceous ? A: THE MESOZOIC ERA
Q: Which historic event took place on July 31st 1910 in Quebec harbour as the SS Montrose docked ? A: DR CRIPPEN WAS ARRESTED
Q: When measured in metres per second, in a vacuum, what's the speed of light to the nearest million ? A: 300 MILLION
Q: Where would you find the hardest substance in the human body ? A: TEETH
Q: Which Radio 2 programme was presented for many years by Alan Keith ? A: YOUR HUNDRED BEST TUNES
Q: The giant Jurassic plant-eating dinosaur now known as the Apatosaurus was formerly known by what name ? A: BRONTOSAURUS
Q: What feature of Japanese life is the Shinkansen ? A: THE BULLET TRAIN
Q: Which country is home to a train service known as the Ghan ? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In literature, what was Lady Chatterley's first name ? A: CONSTANCE
Q: Which American guitar-maker, who died in 1991, introduced models known as the Telecaster, and the Stratocaster, favoured by many rock guitarists since the 1950s ? A: (LEO) FENDER
Q: Which is the longest nerve in the human body ? A: SCIATIC
Q: What was Mr Darcy's first name in Pride and Prejudice ? A: FITZWILLIAM
Q: Once known as 'the Jerusalem of the North', which city is the capital of Lithuania ? A: VILNIUS
Q: Who was the first British Labour Prime Minister to serve for a full parliamentary term ? A: CLEMENT ATTLEE
Q: Who replaced Hilary Clinton as US Secretary of State in 2013 ? A: JOHN (FORBES) KERRY
Q: The beggar at the gate of the rich man's house is the only character in any of Jesus's parables to be given a proper name. What name ? A: LAZARUS
Q: What new name was given to the Chinese Gooseberry by farmers from New Zealand when they started exporting it to the USA in the 1960's ? A: KIWI FRUIT
Q: Films. Give the next title in the following sequence: East of Eden, Rebel Without a Cause - ? A: GIANT
Q: The line "Off with his head ! So much for Buckingham" was added by Colly Cibber in the eighteenth century to which Shakespeare play ? A: RICHARD III
Q: The character of Beryl the Peril originally appeared in which comic ? A: TOPPER
Q: The main square in Venice is named after which saint ? A: ST MARK
Q: According to a 16th-century law, what colour must all Venetian gondolas be painted ? A: BLACK
Q: Which is the only creature that is capable of turning its stomach inside out ? A: STARFISH
Q: Achieving fame in the late 19th century , who was the first actor to be knighted? A: SIR HENRY IRVING
Q: The famous tree inside the boundary at Canterbury cricket ground was blown down in a gale in 2005. What kind of tree was it ? A: A LIME TREE
Q: A type of foodstuff, what can be either blanket or honeycomb ? A: TRIPE
Q: Films. At which educational establishment, in the 1950s and 1960s was there blue murder , pure hell and a train robbery ? A: ST TRINIAN'S
Q: Which is the largest mammal to build a nest ? A: GORILLA
Q: Which children's comic was named after the son of Andy Capp ? A: BUSTER
Q: Which character in the Old Testament killed one quarter of the world's population ? A: CAIN
Q: The verbal exchange "Papa! Nicole!" was associated with TV advertisements for which make and model of car ? A: RENAULT CLIO
Q: Which scientist became Master of the Royal Mint in 1699 ? A: (SIR) ISAAC NEWTON
Q: This word was on all decimal coins when they were introduced in 1971, and was removed from all decimal coins in 1982. What word ? A: NEW
Q: Who became prima ballerina at the Maryinsky Theatre in 1906 ? A: (ANNA) PAVLOVA
Q: Under the Presidential Act of 1947, who is next in line for the U.S. Presidency after the Vice-President ? A: SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Q: What do cruciverbalists like doing ? A: CROSSWORDS
Q: Who was Britain's first Christian martyr ? A: ST ALBAN
Q: What title is given to the wife of an Earl ? A: COUNTESS
Q: "Which classic film ends with the line ""Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship"" ?" A: CASABLANCA
Q: "Which classic film ends with the line "" .... After all, tomorrow is another day.""?" A: GONE WITH THE WIND
Q: In Greek mythology , who was the god of flocks and herds ? A: PAN
Q: Varicella is the technical term for which disease ? A: CHICKEN POX
Q: Who wrote the music of the German national anthem ? A: HAYDN
Q: In which US state is Bill and Hillary Clinton National Airport ? A: ARKANSAS
Q: What sort of animal is sometimes called a 'coney' ? A: RABBIT
Q: What did a chandler originally make ? A: CANDLES
Q: In American football, who won the most Super Bowls in the 1980's ? A: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS
Q: In Greek mythology, which nine-headed monster grew two for every one that was chopped off ? A: HYDRA
Q: Which American statesman appears on the US $100 bill ? A: BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
Q: By what name is acetylsalicylic acid more commonly known when kept in the medicine cupboard ? A: ASPIRIN
Q: What kind of animal is a Peruvian cavy ? A: GUINEA PIG
Q: Which Italian city is served by Gallileo Galilei airport ? A: PISA
Q: How many players are there in a Canadian football team ? A: TWELVE
Q: In which Dickens novel do the Cheeryble Brothers appear ? A: NICHOLAS NICKLEBY
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when Captain Scott reached the South Pole? A: ASQUITH
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when Stanley met Livingstone ? A: GLADSTONE
Q: What name for a short haircut came from its popularity among the rowing teams of Harvard and Yale in the 1940s and 50s ? A: CREWCUT
Q: Karl Landsteiner won a Nobel Prize for his discovery of what ? A: BLOOD GROUPS
Q: What kind of bridge is the Golden Gate Bridge ? A: SUSPENSION
Q: The city of Carrara, in the Italian region of Tuscany, is most famous for the production of what ? A: MARBLE
Q: Cassiterite is the primary ore of which metallic element ? A: TIN
Q: Wykehamists are pupils of which public school ? A: WINCHESTER
Q: Give the name of the room where the Treaty of Versailles was signed in 1919. A: HALL OF MIRRORS
Q: Who wrote the lyrics for the musical Starlight Express ? A: RICHARD STILGOE
Q: Which author created the character Hannibal Lecter ? A: THOMAS HARRIS
Q: What was the Roman name for York ? A: EBORACUM
Q: Which Oxford college was founded in 1899 to provide education specifically for working people ? A: RUSKIN
Q: Which famous actor played the killer of PC Dixon in the film The Blue Lamp? A: DIRK BOGARDE
Q: What name did the artist Michelangelo Merisi adopt ? A: CARAVAGGIO
Q: In the 1960's, which designer created the 'Space Age' collection ? A: PIERRE CARDIN
Q: In which British city is St Mungo's Cathedral ? A: GLASGOW
Q: Which English king was known as 'Old Rowley' ? A: CHARLES II
Q: What name is usually given to the larva of a click beetle ? A: WIREWORM
Q: On which US navy vessel did Japanese forces make their official surrender in 1945 ? A: MISSOURI
Q: Who wrote the novel To Kill a Mocking-bird ? A: HARPER LEE
Q: Which city is home to the 8th century 'Book of Kells' ? A: DUBLIN
Q: Which firth separates Orkney from the Scottish mainland ? A: THE PENTLAND FIRTH
Q: Dubris was the Roman name for which town ? A: DOVER
Q: Which state is nicknamed the 'Mother of Presidents' ? A: VIRGINIA
Q: On what would you see a 'gnomon' ? A: SUNDIAL
Q: In Norse mythology, what is the hall of the slain known as ? A: VALHALLA
Q: Which river, situated near the mouth of the River Esk in Dumfries and Galloway, hosts over 5000 weddings each year ? A: GRETNA
Q: Y Gogarth (or Pen Y Gogarth) is the welsh name for which prominent geographic feature in North Wales ? A: GREAT ORME
Q: Which are of Tokyo, famous for its department stores, boutiques and restaurants, is one of the most luxurious shopping districts in the world ? A: GINZA
Q: Which town in Northern Spain, once the seat of the Basque Parliament, was bombed bt German planes in 1937a and immortalised by a famous Picasso painting ? A: GUERNICA
Q: Which Lincolnshire town on the River Trent was at one time England's most inland port being over 55 miles from the North Sea ? A: GAINSBOROUGH
Q: Libreville is the capital of which African country ? A: GABON
Q: In which 2006 film did Tom Hanks play a character called Robert Langdon, a professor of religous iconography ? A: THE DA VINCI CODE
Q: In which 1959 film did an opera singer called Claude Heater play Jesus Christ, but was not creedited as his face was never shown ? A: BEN HUR
Q: Maddox, Zahara and Pax (adopted) and Shiloh, Knox and Vivienne (natural) are the children of which Hollywood actress ? A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: Which 1988 action movie - the first in a series of five - was based on a novel called Nothing lasts forever by Roderick Thorpe ? A: DIE HARD
Q: Which fairytale character did the Spanish actor Antonio Banderas voice in the Shrek sequels ? A: PUSS IN BOOTS
Q: Of the five Marx brothers who appeared on film, who was the oldest ? A: CHICO
Q: Who was crowned Queen of England at Westminister Abbey on this day in 1553 ? A: MARY I
Q: In which modern day country is the Sudetenlan, annexed by Nazi Germany on this day in 1938 ? A: CZECH REPUBLIC
Q: Which former US President will be celebrating his 89th birthday today ? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: On October 1st of which year did Ford put its first Model T on sale ? Was it 1898, 1908 or 1918 ? A: 1908
Q: The first Japanese bullettrain ran on October 1st 1964 between Tokyo and which other city ? A: OSAKA
Q: "Which organisation was founded on the 1st October 1946 at Lincoln College, Oxford by Ronald Berrill and Dr Lancelot Ware ? The first of its three declared purposes being ""to identify and to foster human intelligence for the benefit of humanity"" ?" A: MENSA
Q: Keith Duffy, who celebrates his 39th birthday today, was a founder ember of which band in 1994 ? A: BOYZONE
Q: Which chemical element, Atomic Number 17, gets its name from the Greek word for green ? A: CHLORINE
Q: Which geological epoch started about 12,000 years ago at the end of the Pleistocene, and continues to this day ? A: HOLOCENE
Q: In geometry, which unit is defined as being equal to the angle subtended at the centre of a circle by an arc equal in length to the radius ? A: RADIAN
Q: Which unit of length is equal to 1.8288 metres ? A: FATHOM
Q: Which painful condition is caused by the deposition of urates or uric acid into the joints of the body, most commonly in the big toe ? A: GOUT
Q: Which city was awarded the 2020 Summer Olympics last month, beating Istanbul and Madrid ? A: TOKYO
Q: Who did Wigan beat 16 - 0 to win the 2013 RL Challenge Cup at Wembley? A: HULL FC
Q: Bill Hoskyns, who died in August, was the first Briton to compete at six Olympic Games - 1956 to 1976 inclusive. He won the team bronze in Rome and an individual silver in Tokyo, in which sport ? A: FENCING
Q: The highest partnership for England in a test match for any wicket is 411 at Edgbaston against the West Indies in 1957. Name either of the batsmen involved. A: COLIN COWDREY and PETER MAY
Q: Which Aviva Premiership Rugby Union side play their home games at Adams Park, High Wycombe ? A: (LONDON) WASPS
Q: Which swimmer, who never won an Olympic medal in his career, carried the flag for the United Kingdom at the opening ceremony at Beijing in 2008 ? A: MARK FOSTER
Q: What is the German name for the Polish city of Gdansk ? A: DANZIG
Q: Edward VII's first Christian name wasn't Edward, What was it ? A: ALBERT
Q: Which European capital city was known as Kristiana from 1877 to 1925 ? A: OSLO
Q: What name has been given to the new intitution created by the merger of Deeside College and Wrexham's Yale College earlier this year ? A: (COLEG) CAMBRIA
Q: What was the stage name of the operatic soprano who was born Helen Porter Mitchell in 1861 ? A: NELLIE MELBA
Q: In which year were TV licences introduced in the UK? A: 1946
Q: Which designer (brand) created the Kelly bag? A: Hermes
Q: By what name is the Gravelly Hill Interchange better known? A: Spaghetti Junction
Q: The Galápagos Islands are a provincial territory of which South American country, 600 miles away on the same equatorial latitude? A: Ecuador
Q: Who succeeded Sir Clive Woodward as England's rugby union coach? A: Andy Robinson
Q: What is Bill Clinton's middle name? A: Jefferson
Q: In which country are the Sutherland Falls? A: New Zealand
Q: In the US TV comedy show Everybody Loves Raymond, what is Raymond's brother's first name? A: Robert
Q: What is the largest flat fish species? A: Halibut
Q: Who played the Ringo Kid in the original Stagecoach film? A: John Wayne
Q: Which artist painted The Potato Eaters? A: Vincent Van Gogh
Q: In architecture, what is a lancet? A: A window
Q: Which singer's original name was Elaine Bookbinder? A: Elkie Brooks
Q: A methuselah of wine holds the equivalent of how many bottles? A: Eight
Q: Launched in 1960, what was the name of the first US communications satellite? A: Echo 1
Q: What does a cartophilist collect? A: Cigarette cards
Q: Which European city had the Roman name Lutetia? A: Paris
Q: What is the green pigment found in most plants that is responsible for absorbing light energy? A: Chlorophyll
Q: Yeomen Warders at the Tower of London are commonly known by what other name? A: Beefeaters
Q: Which actress appears with Jarvis Cocker in Pulp's video, Common People? A: Sadie Frost
Q: How many labours were performed by Hercules? A: Twelve
Q: In which London pub did Ronnie Kray murder George Cornell? A: The Blind Beggar
Q: What date is Trafalgar Day? A: 21 October
Q: What is the birthstone for April? A: Diamond
Q: What does 'E' represent in E = MC2? A: Energy
Q: What note do orchestras typically tune up to? A: A
Q: Which English cathedral was destroyed by fire in 1666? A: St Pauls
Q: Who shot and killed Billy the Kid in 1881? A: Pat Garrett
Q: What was the first name of Dustin Hoffman's female character in Tootsie? A: Dorothy
Q: In which year (or decade) were luncheon vouchers introduced in the UK? A: 1955
Q: How did soul singer Otis Redding die in 1967? A: Plane crash
Q: Who invented the revolver (handgun)? A: Samuel Colt
Q: In which ocean is Ascension Island? A: Atlantic
Q: In which country was cricketer Ted Dexter born? A: Italy
Q: Who was the first English monarch to abdicate? A: Richard II
Q: At which railway station was the film Brief Encounter made? A: Carnforth
Q: Who was the first British person to walk in space? A: Michael Foale
Q: Bafana Bafana, the South African nickname for its national football team means? A: The Boys
Q: What is the bodyguard character played by Kevin Costner in the 1992 film 'The Bodyguard'? A: Frank Farmer
Q: The 2,228m high Mount Kosciuszko is the highest mainland mountain of which country? A: Australia
Q: Which European country ceased to be a monarchy in 1910? A: Portugal
Q: Farringford House on the Isle of Wight was the home of which poet? A: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Q: Orzo is what type of foodstuff? A: Pasta
Q: Tirana is the capital of which country? A: Albania
Q: What item of his apparel was made of liquorice and eaten by Charlie Chaplin in the film 'The Gold Rush'? A: Boot
Q: Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is better known by what DuPont brand name? A: Teflon
Q: In which year did the ocean liner the QE2 make her maiden voyage? A: 1969
Q: The white sea-borne floating mineral (magnesium silicate) called meerschaum, used in making tobacco pipes, takes its name from the German meaning of what? A: Sea Foam
Q: What primarily causes an ice-skate to melt ice, creating lubricated contact helpful for skating? A: Pressure
Q: Which British artist painted The Pond? A: L S Lowry
Q: Cuisses were medieval armour worn to protect which part of the body? A: Thigh
Q: The Battle of Antietam was fought during which war? A: American Civil War
Q: What is produced in the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas? A: Hormones
Q: Which country's old name is Kemet, meaning 'black land', a reference to the fertile soil of its vast flood plains? A: Egypt
Q: In 2010, Asda (owned by Walmart) bought the UK stores of which discount grocers for £778m? A: Netto
Q: In an electrical circuit diagram what is denoted by a circle containing the capital letter A? A: Ammeter
Q: What internationally popular competitive activity features a 'Racing Homer'? A: Pigeon racing
Q: Amy Winehouse and the brand of which famous 1930s sportsman announced a joint collection in 2010? A: Fred Perry
Q: What is the largest rough gem-quality diamond ever found (as at 2010)? A: The Cullinan Diamond
Q: William Makepeace Thackeray's 1847 novel Vanity Fair, a satire of early 1800s British society, has the extended title, 'A Novel without a ...' what? A: Hero
Q: What Dutch Brewery arranged an 'ambush marketing' appearance of 36 orange-clad dancing women in the Denmark v Netherlands 2010 World Cup game audience, attracting complaints from FIFA, and massive publicity? A: Bavaria
Q: Name the Danish maritime explorer who served with the Russian fleet and gave his name to a Strait, a Sea, an Island, a Glacier and Land Bridge? A: Vitus Bering
Q: What car company faced major problems over a sticking accelerator fault in 2010? A: Toyota
Q: In chemistry and physics, volatility is the tendency of a substance to what? A: Vaporize
Q: Sir Joseph Paxton designed which notable 1851 Hyde Park building, re-located in 1854, where its name persists since accidental destruction in 1936? A: The Crystal Palace
Q: In March 2010, which country passed a law banning all strip clubs and made it illegal for any business to profit from the nudity of employees such as topless waitresses? A: Iceland
Q: The religious slot Thought for the Day features in which BBC Radio show? A: Today
Q: What is the process by which an insect undergoes distinct physical change from immaturity (typically larva or nymph) to adulthood? A: Metamorphosis
Q: Which castle is sometimes referred to as 'The Key to England'? A: Dover Castle
Q: What is the name of the sister of Blanche DuBois in Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire? A: Stella Kowalski
Q: The city of Lisbon in Portugal lies on which river? A: The Tagus
Q: Spaniard Juan Antonio Samaranch, who died in April 2010, was head of which organization from 1980-2001? A: The IOC
Q: What chemical element's symbol derives from the Latin word aurum, meaning 'shining dawn'? A: Gold
Q: A handwritten transcript of a coroner's inquest in 1881 that was rediscovered in Bisbee, Arizona, USA in 2010, revealed additional notes about what dramatic incident? A: Gunfight at the OK Corral
Q: Derived from the Greek word meaning perimeter, what is the text form of the sixteenth letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Pi
Q: What Portuguese island suffered severe storm floods in February 2010? A: Madeira
Q: The structural integrity of the Howrah Bridge in Kolkata (Calcutta) India, which daily carries 60,000 vehicles and 50,000 pedestrians, was reported (2010) to be under corrosive attack from what? A: Human spitting
Q: Diastema is the medical term for the gap between what in the human body? A: Two teeth
Q: What placename derives from the twelfth and last of the Eleanor Crosses, erected 1291-1294 by Edward I in memory of his wife Eleanor of Castille? A: Charing Cross
Q: Jibbons and scallions are alternative words for which vegetables? A: Spring onions
Q: Who became Baron of Kington-upon-Hull when joining the House of Lords in July 2010? A: John Prescott
Q: Which instrument was American bandleader Glenn Miller famous for playing? A: Trombone
Q: Name Charles Dickens' first novel, featuring the characters Nathaniel Winkle, Augustus Snodgrass and 'the fat boy' Joe? A: Pickwick Papers
Q: Sir Edmund Barton became the first prime minister of which country in 1901? A: Australia
Q: Photophobia is extreme sensitivity to, or fear of, what? A: Light
Q: Milou is the French name of which cartoon character's dog? A: Tintin
Q: Which major UK racecourse is at Prestbury Park? A: Cheltenham
Q: Ibiza is in which Mediterranean island group? A: Balearic Islands
Q: In medicine, carditis is the inflammation of which organ of the human body? A: Heart
Q: Loosely translated to mean 'hollow bone' what is the Italian food made from veal shank? A: Ossobucco
Q: In early UK beer production what is a kiln for drying hops popularly called? A: Oast
Q: What is the capital of Haiti? A: Port-au-Prince
Q: What is the surname of Truman, played by Jim Carrey, in the 1998 film The Truman Show? A: Burbank
Q: The lakes Van, Tuz, Uluabat, and Beysehir are among the largest in which country? A: Turkey
Q: Which phobia is colloquially associated with the disease rabies? A: Hydrophobia
Q: Which region and river in the north of South America, now part of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana, gave its name to a sweetener produced from local crops? A: Demerara
Q: In the Bible, who was the sister of Mary and Lazarus? A: Martha
Q: Inferno, Paradiso and Purgatorio are sections of which epic poem by Italian Dante Alighieri? A: The Divine Comedy
Q: What naturally occurring common substance containing lactose may scientifically be described as an emulsion of butterfat globules within a water-based fluid? A: Milk
Q: Neat, kine, and beeves are old collective words for what? A: Cattle
Q: Ben Drew achieved a 2010 number one album fronting which band? A: Plan B
Q: Ehud Barak succeeded Binyamin Netanyahu as prime minister of which country in 1999? A: Israel
Q: What acid occurs naturally in bee and ant venom? A: Formic acid
Q: Wiki means what in Hawaiian? A: Quick
Q: International telephone dialling codes for Africa generally begin with what number? A: 2
Q: What word for a monstrously large creature or organization derives from the original Egyptian meaning of 'water-ox', and more specifically, probably the hippopotamus? A: Behemoth
Q: Oxford Boat Race squad twins Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss became multi-millionaires after a court battle with what website that they claimed stole their idea? A: Facebook
Q: How many horns does the British minotaur dung beetle have? A: Three
Q: In which country did a military coup overthrow president Juan Peron in 1955? A: Argentina
Q: Whose memoir was re-titled 'A Journey' shortly before its Autumn 2010 publication, because apparently the publishers were concerned that the author's chosen title 'The Journey' might seem too 'messianic' and arrogant? A: Tony Blair
Q: What number is a hurricane-force storm on the conventional Beaufort Wind Force Scale? A: 12
Q: Globo Esporte, which carried the headline 'HAHAHAHAHAHAHA' following Argentina's 4-0 defeat by Germany in the 2010 FIFA World Cup, is a newspaper in which country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the vivid blue semi-percious stone, historically mined in Afghanistan's Badakhshan province and prized by the ancient Egyptians, Mesopotamians, Greeks and Romans? A: Lapis lazuli
Q: A 'bible bump' is an old colloquial term for what medical condition? A: A ganglion cyst
Q: Elizabeth Angela Marguerite Bowes-Lyon (1900-2002) was more commonly known as whom? A: The Queen Mother
Q: What element, whose symbol derives from its Greek name hydrargyrum, meaning watery silver, melts at minus 38.83 °C and yet boils at 356.73 °C ? A: Mercury
Q: Who was the first female presenter on UK TV's Top of The Pops, who made only one appearance in 1982 to celebrate BBC Radio One's 15th birthday? A: Annie Nightingale
Q: What colourless odourless liquid, E number E422, is used in foods as a sweetener, thickener and humectant (to maintain moistness)? A: Glycerol
Q: The Galapagos Islands lie in which body of water? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: In Scrabble what points value is a letter K tile? A: Five
Q: The Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela is in which country? A: Spain
Q: What is a small lift called which carries food and other goods between floors in a building? A: Dumbwaiter
Q: UK politicians David Owen, Shirley Williams, Roy Jenkins and Bill Rodgers, known as The Gang of Four, defected from the Labour Party in 1981 to form which party? A: Social Democratic Party
Q: What is the main stock market index of Hong Kong? A: Hang Seng Index
Q: What board game name is the Latin word meaning 'I play' ? A: Ludo
Q: Potassium nitrate, charcoal and sulphur (sulfur, US-English) are the traditional ingredients of what substance? A: Gunpowder
Q: A heptad is a group or set of how many? A: Seven
Q: A narthex is part of which type of building? A: Church
Q: What is the corolla of a flower commonly known as? A: Petals
Q: For what is www.letour.fr the official website? A: Tour de France
Q: What make of Wellington boots did Samantha Cameron buy President Obama's children for the 2010 British Prime Ministerial visit to the USA? A: Hunters
Q: Name the refugee camp near Calais close to the French side of the Chanel Tunnel? A: Sangatte
Q: A nanosecond equates to what fraction of a second? A: Billionth
Q: Angelos Epithemiou ex-burger-van proprietor, replaced what quirky drumming baby character on a popular UK TV comedy quiz show? A: George Dawes
Q: If an atom were the size of a football pitch its nucleus would be approximately the size of a? A: Football
Q: What is the name of the trimmed tree trunk tossed in competition in the Highland Games? A: Caber
Q: Who wrote the poem 'Jabberwocky', which originally featured in one of his novels? A: Lewis Carroll
Q: In July 2010 Amazon announced that their quarterly volume sales of digital books (ebooks) had exceeded their sales of what in the US for the first time? A: Hardback books
Q: A philtre (in US-English, philter) - pronounced 'filter' - is a potion for what? A: Love
Q: Which type of clay takes its name from the Italian for 'baked earth'? A: Terracotta
Q: In rugby union, which position is known only by the number on the shirt? A: Number Eight
Q: Wenlock and Mandeville are the mascots of which sporting event? A: 2012 London Olympics
Q: Israel Zangwill wrote the 1892 novel 'Children of the ...' what, depicting Jewish life in London? A: Ghetto
Q: Who succeeded John Major as leader of the UK Conservative Party in 1997? A: William Hague
Q: The Aswan Dam, which enables controlled use of the Nile flood plain for agriculture, is in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: Who played Claus Von Bulow in the 1990 film Reversal of Fortune? A: Jeremy Irons
Q: The name of what ethnic celebration derives from the Aramaic and Hebrew words respectively for son and commandment? A: Bar Mitzvah
Q: Which many-times champion golfer is known as the Golden Bear? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: The Alpine ski resort of St Moritz is in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: In Greek mythology, what did Prometheus steal from Zeus and give to mankind? A: Fire
Q: What is the public declaration, usually in a church, of an intended marriage? A: The banns
Q: Who captained the England cricket team during the 1986-87 Ashes series? A: Mike Gatting
Q: What is the reciprocal of one-and-two-thirds (in other words, what fraction when multiplied by one-and-two-thirds produces one)? A: Three-fifths
Q: Which war was the subject of the 1978 film The Deerhunter? A: Vietnam War
Q: If someone is bibulous, what are they addicted to or fond of? A: Alcohol
Q: How many squares are traditionally on a Snakes and Ladders board? A: One hundred
Q: Which day of the week is named after the Norse god of thunder? A: Thursday
Q: In 1907, who was the first English writer to win the Nobel Prize for literature? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: What is the Russian term for an astronaut? A: Cosmonaut
Q: The national flags of which group of countries have a cross design named after the grouping, in which the vertical line is shifted from the centre to the hoist (left) side, and among which is the oldest of all national flags? A: Scandinavia
Q: Which palace is the official London residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury? A: Lambeth Palace
Q: A tercentenary is an anniversary of how many years? A: Three hundred
Q: What is the name of a Spanish dance, and associated with this a short jacket worn open at the front? A: Bolero
Q: The prefix 'helio' relates to which celestial body? A: The sun
Q: Which country's use of energy overtook the USA in 2010 to become the world's biggest consumer of power (from oil, coal, water, wind, etc)? A: China
Q: What is the name of the small hammer with a circular rubber head used by doctors to test body reflexes, particularly at the knee? A: Plexor
Q: In what year was England ruled (technically) by kings called Edward, Harold, Edgar and William, in that order? A: 1066
Q: Ligneous relates to which natural substance? A: Wood
Q: The auto-biographical poem 'The Story of Suicide Sal' was written by which 1930s female outlaw? A: Bonnie Parker
Q: Who was the US Secretary of State 1973-1977? A: Henry Kissinger
Q: The Edgbaston Test Cricket Ground is in which English city? A: Birmingham
Q: The song 'San Quentin', about the California state prison, was written, and subsequently performed there, by which artist, recorded on a live album and British TV documentary? A: Johnny Cash
Q: Established 1845, during British colonial rule, the top-selling Straits Times newspaper, and a similarly named stock market index (STI) belongs to which country? A: Singapore
Q: The Scandinavian raw dish gravlax is made from which creature? A: Salmon
Q: Irish born missionary Saint Aidan founded a monastery in 653 on which English island, which is also the name of a 1970s UK folk-rock band? A: Lindisfarne
Q: Triops Cancriformis, discovered in Scotland in July 2010 and said by scientists to have the oldest pedigree (over 200m years) of any living animal on Earth is what type of creature? A: Shrimp
Q: In cycling, what colour jersey is worn by the leader of the Tour of Italy? A: Pink
Q: The green of London's Parliament Square was named what by activists during 2010, when sporadic protests developed into a large camp community? A: Democracy Village
Q: In which secure London building was Hitler's deputy Rudolph Hess briefly imprisoned in May 1941 after he fled Germany to Scotland? A: The Tower of London
Q: What is the method of dyeing fabric in which the parts not to be dyed are covered with removeable wax? A: Batik
Q: Who was the first female film director to win a best film Oscar? A: Kathryn Bigelow
Q: The inactive volcano, Mauna Kea (meaning 'white mountain' in the local native language), is in which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: Who composed the music for the opera Porgy and Bess, about 1920s African American life in Charleston, South Carolina? A: George Gershwin
Q: The mineral and ore pitchblende is rich in what radioactive element, after which it is now named? A: Uranium
Q: Bianca is the younger sister of Katherina in which Shakespeare comedy play? A: The Taming of the Shrew
Q: Manchester United's 2010 Spanish signing nicknamed Chicharito means what in Spanish? A: Little Pea
Q: On which item of dress would a cockade normally be worn? A: Hat
Q: Natives of which English city are known as Loiners? A: Leeds
Q: A dageurreotype was an early type of what? A: Photograph
Q: What is the one-sleeved half-jacket worn under a jacket as additional protection in the sport of fencing? A: Plastron
Q: Cnut the Great, who ruled Denmark, England, Norway and parts of Sweden from 1018-35, is commonly known by what other name, particularly relating to a story of attempting to 'rule the sea'? A: King Canute
Q: On which island was Nelson Mandela incarcerated for 27 years, from 1962-90? A: Robben Island
Q: In which European country are the Altamira cave paintings? A: Spain
Q: Who unexpectedly beat Jimmy Connors in the 1975 Wimbledon Men's Singles Final? A: Arthur Ashe
Q: In 1994, the USA lifted a nineteen year trade ban for which country? A: Vietnam
Q: By what name did the 1932-33 England-Australia cricket series become known, after the visiting English team, notably fast bowler Harold Larwood, employed controversial tactics of bowling at batsmen's heads and chests, rather than the wicket? A: Bodyline
Q: Abhorson is an executioner in which Shakespeare play? A: Measure For Measure
Q: In which ocean is the island of Madeira? A: Atlantic
Q: Who is generally considered to have invented the first electric battery cell in 1800? A: Alessandro Volta
Q: What Japanese expression derives from two colloquial Japanese words meaning 'belly cutting'? A: Hara-Kiri
Q: In which country was escapologist Harry Houdini born? A: Hungary
Q: What is the main ingredient of the Italian dish frittata? A: Eggs
Q: Which is the largest joint in the human body? A: Knee
Q: How many separate terms did William Gladstone serves as Prime Minister of Britain? A: Four
Q: How many stars are on the national flag of China? A: Five
Q: A miller's thumb is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: What was Alexander the Great's famous horse, whose Greek name translates to mean 'ox-head'? A: Bucephalus
Q: Which spice comes from the rhizome (root-stalk) of the plant Zingaber Officionale? A: Ginger
Q: During which month is Republic Day in Italy? A: June
Q: Samite is a type of what? A: Fabric
Q: In summer 2010 what species produced offspring in the wild in the UK for the first time in around 400 years after reintroduction to Scotland? A: Beaver
Q: A caparison is an ornamental cloth used to cover a what? A: Horse
Q: In which famous building are rooms named Vermeil, China, Red, Blue, Green, and Yellow Oval? A: The Whitehouse
Q: Which 1920s film star's third husband was Henri Le Bailly de la Falaise, Marquis de la Coudraye? A: Gloria Swanson
Q: In anatomy, 'plantar' relates to which part of the human body? A: Foot
Q: A 2010 publicity-driven competition called the Carbuncle Cup focused on unpopular British what? A: Architecture
Q: Something annular is in the shape of a what? A: Ring
Q: Sfumato is a technique in what? A: Painting
Q: In summer 2010 Ofcom (regulatory/complaints body for UK communications industries) found that broadband service providers were on average giving customers what percentage of the connection speeds they had contracted to receive? A: 46%
Q: Sprinter Merlene Ottey, age 50, was a member of which nation's 4 x 100 metres relay squad at the 2010 European Championships? A: Slovenia
Q: Who dueted with Harry Nilsson on the 1975 Phil Spectre song 'A Love Like Yours (Don't Come Knocking Every Day)' ? A: Cher
Q: Evo Morales became president of which country in 2006? A: Bolivia
Q: Which religion emerged from the Bible Student movement, founded in 1872 by Charles Taze Russell? A: Jehovah's Witness
Q: In Dubai, Palm Judmeirah is a what? A: Artificial island development
Q: A nide is a brood or nest of which type of birds? A: Pheasants
Q: A Munro, of which there are 283, is a Scottish mountain which is over how many feet high? A: 3,000
Q: In a summer 2010 market trial, UK pub-chain Brakspear's launched free in-pub what? A: Dogs' dinners
Q: An anemometer is a guage used for recording the speed of what? A: Wind
Q: Which of the Rolling Stones has a cameo role as Captain Jack Teague, father of Jack Sparrow in 'Pirates of the Caribbean, At World's End'? A: Keith Richards
Q: Catalonia, the Spanish Autonomous Community region comprising provinces Barcelona, Girona, Lleida and Tarragona, banned what in 2010 with effect from 2012? A: Bullfighting
Q: In the UK in the 1930s, what was named after the Minister of Transport? A: Belisha Beacon
Q: How many pieces are on the board at the start of a game of chess? A: 32
Q: How many presidents of France had there been as at 2010? 7; 12; 23; or 35? A: 23
Q: How many Horsemen of the Apocalypse feature in the Bible's Book of Revelation? A: 4
Q: How many players are (on the field) in a men's lacrosse team (one team not both teams)? A: 10
Q: In the conventional western musical scale there are how many notes including sharps and flats, excluding those which repeat in a different octave? A: 12
Q: How many times (as at 2010) has Roger Federer won the Wimbledon Men's Singles final? 4; 5; 6; or 7? A: 6
Q: How many people (as at 2010) have walked on the moon? A: 12
Q: In the Imperial Measurement system how many pounds are in a stone? A: 14
Q: What number Pennsylvania Avenue is the Whitehouse? A: 1600
Q: A peculiar frequency of roughly how many years saw US presidents dying in office (either assassinated or otherwise) from the 1840s to the 1960s? A: 20
Q: New York City comprises how many boroughs? A: 5
Q: How British King Georges have there been? 4; 5; 6 or 7? A: 6
Q: It is now generally accepted that the human tongue can detect how many basic tastes? A: 5
Q: According to the singer Katie Melua, how many million bicycles are there in Beijing? 5; 9; 10; or 25? A: 9
Q: Twain is an old English word for which number? A: 2
Q: How many rooms are on the Cluedo game board? A: 9
Q: How many fences (not the number of times they are jumped) are on the Aintree Grand National race course? A: 16
Q: "The core rules of the Muslim faith are known as the ""... (how many) Pillars of Islam""?" A: 5
Q: In which year were Concorde planes retired from service? A: 2003
Q: Pop star Wyclef Jean was a potential but unsuccessful 2010 presidential candidate in which country? A: Haiti
Q: Chennai, the capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, was known by what name until 1968? A: Madras
Q: Eighteen year-old Eri Yoshida, known as the Knuckleball Princess, in 2010 became the first Japanese woman to play in the US professional (generally all-male) league of which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Which jockey won the 1981 UK Grand National on Aldaniti? A: Bob Champion
Q: Yitzhak Rabin was the prime minister of which country between 1974 and 1977? A: Israel
Q: Raines Law of 1896 related to the sale of what in New York State? A: Liquor
Q: What was the nickname of the Parliamentary supporters during the mid 17th century English Civil War? A: Roundheads
Q: On which part of the body would a tarboosh be worn? A: Head
Q: In which year did Morocco gain its independence from France? A: 1956
Q: The English town name suffix 'wich' (as in Nantwich and Northwich) derives from the mining of what mineral? A: Salt
Q: What is the title of the fourth Dirty Harry film, starring Clint Eastwood? A: Sudden Impact
Q: Castor (or castoreum) is an oily substance secreted by which animal, and historically used in medicine and perfume? A: Beaver
Q: Which US president greeted astronauts Neil Armstrong, Michael Collins and Buzz Aldrin when they got back from the moon? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Lake Balaton is in which European country? A: Hungary
Q: Bruxism is the medical term for the involuntary habitual grinding of what? A: Teeth
Q: When Marilyn Monroe sang 'Happy Birthday' to US president John Kennedy what age was he celebrating? A: Forty-five
Q: Sapphire is the birthstone relating to which month of the year? A: September
Q: UCAS, the organization which manages student applications for virtually all UK degree courses, is fully known as what? A: Universities and Colleges Admissions Service
Q: During which battle of 1876 did the Sioux Indians massacre George Custer's Seventh Cavalry Regiment? A: Battle of the Little Big Horn
Q: The Folketing is the parliament of which European country? A: Denmark
Q: The eldest son of Queen Victoria became which king? A: Edward VII
Q: What is a Smythson Daphne? A: Handbag
Q: Which common material was invented by Marc Chavannes and Alfred Fielding in 1957 initially as textured wallpaper? A: Bubble-wrap
Q: Welsh singer Michael Barratt is better known by which name? A: Shakin' Stevens
Q: What is half a sphere called? A: Hemisphere
Q: Which British comedienne's autobiography is entitled 'Look Back In Hunger'? A: Jo Brand
Q: In ancient Greek legend, soldier Pheidippedes collapsed and died after running over twenty-five miles to Athens to give news of which battle? A: Marathon
Q: Named by writer Jerry B Harvey after a west Texas city and metropolitan area, a group decision that no individual in the group wants is described as the 'what?' Paradox? A: Abilene Paradox
Q: Holes in a standard round of golf? A: 18
Q: The MS Windows computer operating system version that succeeded Vista? A: 7
Q: Total dots on a die? A: 21
Q: Total of the sides on a pentagon and a heptagon? A: 12
Q: Days of the average human menstrual cycle? A: 28
Q: Lines traditionally in a sonnet? A: 14
Q: Whole miles in a marathon running event? A: 26
Q: The number followed by .14159, fully known as pi, used to calculate the circumference and area of a circle? A: 3
Q: """The Lord is My Shepherd..."" psalm number?" A: 23
Q: American Presidents assassinated in office? A: 4
Q: Old Chinese method of counting on one hand, up to this number, using the thumb to touch the tip and three joints of each finger? A: 16
Q: 'The curse of Scotland' diamonds playing card? A: 9
Q: The age that Brian Jones, Janis Joplin, Jimmy Hendrix, Jim Morrison and Kurt Kobain all died? A: 27
Q: A Nebuchadnezzar wine/champagne bottle equates to how many normal bottles? A: 20
Q: The average age of a US combat soldier in the Vietnam war (also a 1985 Paul Hardcastle No1 hit song)? A: 19
Q: Red balls on a snooker table at the start of a frame (traditional full game version)? A: 15
Q: The dog Timmy made how many in Enid Blyton's 'Famous...' series of children's adventure books? A: 5
Q: The Boeing Superfortress B-'what'-type of American aircraft that dropped atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945? A: 29
Q: Basic parts of the Chinese Taijitu symbol (related to Taoism philosphy and popular interpretations of yin and yang)? A: 2
Q: British orbital motorway featuring the Dartford Crossing is the M-what? A: 25
Q: Diez, Tio, Zehn, and Zece (in Spanish, Swedish, German and Romanian)? A: 10
Q: Held in turn by the ancient Phonecians, Greeks and Romans, Cyrenaica is a region of which African country? A: Libya
Q: Which London Underground line serves Heathrow Airport? A: Piccadilly
Q: Gametophobia is an informal term for the irrational fear of? A: Marriage
Q: With species called common, Danube and Italian, what creature is a bleak; Bird; Fish; Crab; or Whale? A: Fish
Q: For which English county cricket team did Australian Shane Warne play between 2000 and 2007? A: Hampshire
Q: Which composer died on 5th December 1791, aged 35? A: Mozart
Q: A mooli is which type of vegetable? A: Radish
Q: A 2010 UK survey by the Campaign for Better Transport identified which city as the most car-dependent? A: Milton Keynes
Q: What is the musical term for 'To be repeated from the beginning'? A: Da Capo
Q: Burley is which type of crop? A: Tobacco
Q: The Rockall Trough is in which ocean? A: Atlantic
Q: In the 2004 film biopic Beyond the Sea, Kevin Spacey plays which 1960s singer? A: Bobby Darin
Q: In June 1937, which US state became the first, and only, to celebrate Flag Day as a state holiday? A: Pennsylvania
Q: Which European leader publicly welcomed a new female MP to parliament by reminding her of a 'rule' called 'jus primae noctis' ('law of the first night' - a medieval right of the Lord of the manor to deflower new brides) ? Silvio Berlusconi; Winston Churchill; Nicolas Sarkozy; or Helmut Kohl? A: Silvio Berlusconi
Q: The John Rylands Library is in which English city? A: Manchester
Q: What colour is the pigment lycopene? A: Red
Q: What class of creature is a scorpion? A: Arachnid
Q: In which English county is Chilham Castle? A: Kent
Q: In which year was the Metropolitan Police Service established in London? A: 1829
Q: Madrilene is what type of food dish? A: Soup
Q: Petrography is the study of what? A: Rocks
Q: What is a bump on a ski slope called which is formed by skiers turning? A: Mogul
Q: The Watergate Complex is in which area of Washington DC? A: Foggy Bottom
Q: Mefloquine is used for the treatment of what? A: Malaria
Q: What historic region of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro, gave its name to a dog breed with a striking appearance? A: Dalmatia
Q: Appropriately, a giant what was put temporarily onto the fourth plinth at London's Trafalgar Square in May 2010? A: Ship in a bottle
Q: In March 2010 artist Spencer Tunick arranged and photographed 5,200 what in front of Sydney Opera House? A: Naked people
Q: The Janka hardness test is used for which substance? A: Wood
Q: Derived from the French word meaning to brood or hatch, what term refers to a male phantom or sympathetic pregnancy syndrome in response to a wife or partner's real pregnancy? A: Couvade
Q: What is the third angle in a triangle if the other two are each 60 degrees? A: 60 degrees
Q: What traditional profession specialises in the assessment of costs and tenders for materials and contracts within building and construction projects? A: Quantity Surveyor
Q: What did US southerners call a northerner who moved to the south in the 1860-70s to exploit opportunities in the Reconstruction era, and which word today refers to an opportunitistic investor, especially where a mutual society might convert into a public commerial company? A: Carpetbagger
Q: The UK Glastonbury music festival was originally known as what name (combined with 'festival'), taken from a nearby village? A: Pilton
Q: Name the 1890-founded Scottish manufacturer of much-loved traditional caramel wafers, teacakes and snowball cakes, which experienced a staff pay dispute in Autumn 2010? A: Tunnock's
Q: Who invented roll camera film, thereby popularizing photography, and founded the Kodak company, whose full title also bears his name? A: George Eastman
Q: In the UK snow of January 2010 a Thames Valley policeman was reprimanded for sledging on duty down a slope on his what? A: Riot shield
Q: Composed in 1907, The Soldier's Song (that's the English translation of the title) was formally adopted in 1926 as the national anthem of which European country? A: Ireland
Q: The Mills bomb, developed in Birmingham in 1915, and produced in numbers exceeding 70 million since then, is more commonly known by what term? A: Hand grenade
Q: An ammeter measures electrical what? A: Current
Q: The Sumida and Arakawa are two main rivers of which capital city? A: Tokyo
Q: Anthracite is a type of what? A: Coal
Q: Luke Rinehart's cult 1971 novel is called The 'what?' Man? A: Dice
Q: What is the Italian word, meaning 'head', for the clamp-like gadget used on guitars and other fretted stringed instruments to change key and tuning? A: Capo
Q: The Pacific Ocean covers approximately what percentage of the Earth's surface? A: 30%
Q: New France was the name given to French colonized lands in which continent from the 16th-18th centuries? A: North America
Q: Sabena was which country's national airline? A: Belgium
Q: Who owns the luxury food brand Duchy Originals, which announced £3.2m losses in 2010? A: Prince Charles
Q: What is Spanish for heart? A: Corazón
Q: Sir Robert Mark, who died age 93 in Sep 2010, performed what role in England from 1967-77? A: Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Q: Saint Pega is said to be England's first female? A: Hermit
Q: What is the name of the mount on which the Hollywood sign sits in California? A: Mount Lee
Q: In which country is the Nafud Desert? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: Which gemstone is associated (traditional UK/US) with a 45th wedding anniversary? A: Sapphire
Q: Anthomania refers to a great love of? A: Flowers
Q: A mummichog is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Tahiti is the largest of which group of islands? A: Society
Q: In which year was the National Health Service established in Great Britain? A: 1948
Q: In 1919, which country became the first to legalise abortion? A: Russia
Q: Name the French bank controversially exonerated (judged free of any responsibility/liability) in the 2010 trial of its employee rogue trader Jerome Kerviel, who was imprisoned for, and fined, the 4.9bn euros he lost in 2008 futures trading? A: Soc Gen
Q: In the TV series Thunderbirds, what is Parker's first name? A: Aloysius
Q: What is the name of the hook which forms on the lower jaw of the male salmon during the breeding season? A: Kype
Q: Which monarch was the first Supreme Governor of the Church of England? A: Elizabeth I
Q: The American Academy of Arts and Sciences was founded in which US city? A: Boston
Q: Mock Turtle Soup is traditionally made from the head of a? A: Calf
Q: If something is 'fluviatile', it is produced or found in a? A: River
Q: A deuteragonist is second in importance in a? A: Greek tragedy
Q: The lempira is the basic monetary unit of which Central American country? A: Honduras
Q: The Odense River is in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: Name the mine in Copiapo, Chile, where 33 miners were trapped after a collapse on 5 Aug 2010? A: San José
Q: In 1760, Belgian inventor Joseph Merlin patented which item of footwear? A: Roller skates
Q: The resort of St Tropez is in which department of France? A: Var
Q: American mathematician Norbert Wiener, 1894-1964, coined what scientific term concerning complex systems, and helped define its modern understanding? A: Cybernetics
Q: When steel is galvanized it is most commonly coated by what? A: Zinc
Q: What element, with zirconium, forms the compound zirconia, which is used to make synthetic diamonds? A: Oxygen
Q: What characterised the Neolithic age? A: Stone tools
Q: What name (in English) was given to the capsule which brought the 33 Chilean miners to the surface in the San Jose rescue on 13 October 2010? A: Phoenix
Q: According to Forbes magazine's 2010 listings, who was the highest earning dead celebrity? A: Yves Saint Laurent
Q: Meaning literally 'make like' what is the full Latin word from which 'fax' derives (as in fax machine)? A: Facsimile
Q: According to Greek legend, the labyrinth built by architect Daedalus housed which monster? A: The Minotaur
Q: What 'z' is the activity where person is rolled down a hill inside a large plastic transparent ball? A: Zorbing
Q: Sir Thomas Sopwith designed what famous British biplane fighter aircraft, whose name combined his own name with an animal? A: Sopwith Camel
Q: What type of wartime field gun took its name originally from the old Czech word (loosely 'houfnice') meaning catapault? A: Howitzer
Q: What is a brief period of time and a turning effect produced by a force? A: Moment
Q: Permanent software programmed into a read-only memory is generally called what ' ...ware'? A: Firmware
Q: What colour/color normally follows orange moving up the scale, low to high, in judo belts? A: Green
Q: Sometimes called Echo Boomers, people born between around 1980 to the mid-1990s (or later depending on interpretation), are more commonly referred to as Generation what? A: Y
Q: Used especially in marketing and consumer profiling, what is the study of size, structure, development and dispersement of human populations? A: Demography
Q: What term, common in fantasy games, also refers to the three wise men in the Bible? A: Magi
Q: In which city is the new 27-storey $1bn residential property 'Antilla', home to the 4th richest person in the world, and (as at 2010) reportedly the most expensive home anywhere? A: Mumbai
Q: 'Five-finger discount' is US slang for what crime? A: Shoplifting
Q: What number is neutral on the pH acid/alkali scale? A: 7
Q: How many microns are in a metre? A: One million
Q: What four words appear on the rectangual logo molded into most plastic CD cases? A: Compact Disc Digital Audio
Q: In Gustav Holst's orchestral suite 'The Planets' what planet from the (our) Solar System is missing? A: Earth
Q: Which aspiring US politician was criticized in Oct 2010 for her technically illegal act of autographing an American flag? A: Sarah Palin
Q: In which country is Lake Banyoles, site of the 1992 Olympic rowing events? A: Spain
Q: Jomo Kenyatta became the first president of which African country in 1964? A: Kenya
Q: What chemical element is a pure diamond? A: Carbon
Q: Which character is the science officer of the starship Enterprise (in the original TV series)? A: Spock
Q: What type of animal is a markhor, the national animal of Pakistan? A: Goat
Q: Which couturiere and perfumier's first names were Gabrielle Bonheur? A: Coco Chanel
Q: The flavoured fishing bait boilie is mainly used to catch which type of fish? A: Carp
Q: A traditional weapon of the Sicilian mafia, what is a lupara? A: Shotgun
Q: In geological classification what granular term is between silt and gravel? A: Sand
Q: William Van Allan designed which New York building - the tallest brick building in the world in 1930? A: The Chrysler Building
Q: What was Brad Pitt's initialised character name in the film 'Thelma and Louise'? A: J D
Q: Opened in 1998, accessible usually only by air, and continually in permafrost, the EKATI Diamond Mine is in which country? A: Canada
Q: Which US president's mother was known as 'Miss Lillian'? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: In human anatomy, in which part of the body is the buccinator muscle? A: Cheek
Q: Diacetylmorphine is the technical term for which drug? A: Heroin
Q: The actress Caryn Johnson is better known by which name? A: Whoopi Goldberg
Q: Iapetus (or Japetus) is a satellite of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: Name the Panama military dictator imprisoned from 1992-2007 in the USA for drug trafficking, racketeering and money laundering, and subsequently extradited to France for money laundering, and imprisoned again in 2010? A: General Manuel Noriega
Q: A muumuu is a brightly coloured dress traditionally worn by women on which island? A: Hawaii
Q: Laconia is a southern region of which European country? A: Greece
Q: What is the large dog breed named after a town in south-west Germany, with St Bernard, Newfoundland and Pyrenean Mountain Dog ancestry? A: Leonberger
Q: Named after the Greek words for good and sound, what is the valved brass tenor instrument resembling a small tuba? A: Euphonium
Q: Car exhaust fumes contain mainly what poisonous gas? A: Carbon monoxide
Q: How many imperial gallons are in an imperial peck? A: Two
Q: David Low created what pompous British cartoon officer character, first appearing in London's Evening standard in the 1930s? A: Colonel Blimp
Q: 20-year old criminology undergraduate Marisol Valles Garcia became police chief of drug-war-torn town Praxedis Guadalupe Guerrero in what country? A: Mexico
Q: What are the basic three 'alter ego' states (of a person) identified and used within Eric Berne's Transactional Analysis theory? A: Parent Adult Child
Q: Who wrote the novel, Treasure Island? A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: In which country was ex-England cricket captain Tony Greig born? A: South Africa
Q: What was Tom Jones' first UK number one single? A: It's Not Unusual
Q: What flavour is the liqueur cassis? A: Blackcurrant
Q: What product was the first to appear in a UK TV commercial (in 1955)? A: Toothpaste
Q: Which artist is famous for painting a portrait of his mother? A: James Whistler
Q: Which singer was known as the 'Forces' Sweetheart'? A: Vera Lynn
Q: What does a lepidopterist collect? A: Butterflies
Q: What was Genevieve in the 1953 film of the same name? A: A classic car
Q: In which UK cathedral is the Whispering Gallery? A: St Pauls
Q: What are Blue Mountain, Caturra, and Mocca types of? A: Coffee
Q: What is the monkey species on the Rock of Gibraltar commonly called? A: Barbary Ape
Q: In the human body what is the Trachea? A: Windpipe
Q: What does an acrophobic fear? A: Heights
Q: In which UK county is Hever Castle? A: Kent
Q: What colours are the flowers of the flax plant? A: Blue
Q: When is St Patrick's Day celebrated? A: 17th March
Q: What is a village without a church called? A: Hamlet
Q: In German mythology what is the name of the siren who lived on a rock and lured boatmen to their deaths? A: Lorelei
Q: In what year were dog licences abolished in England? A: 1987
Q: What type of leaves does a silkworm feed on? A: Mulberry
Q: Which UK newspaper had the first colour supplement? A: Sunday Times
Q: What type of creature is a mouthbrooder? A: Fish
Q: Which group had three consecutive UK Christmas number ones in 1996, 97 and 98? A: Spice Girls
Q: In which sport do Great Britain and the USA compete for the Westchester Cup? A: Polo
Q: In which war was the Battle of Bosworth Field? A: Wars of the Roses
Q: Who wrote the opera Cosi fan Tutte? A: Mozart
Q: Who is generally credited with having invented the telephone? A: Alexander Graham Bell
Q: What is the US state capital of Arizona? A: Phoenix
Q: In which century was the first recorded Viking raid on England? A: 8th century
Q: Olfactory relates to which of the senses? A: Smell
Q: What was the name of the bottled water launched by Coca-Cola and then withdrawn? A: Dasani
Q: Which side of a coin is obverse, heads or tails? A: Heads
Q: What word represents the letter K in radio communications? A: Kilo
Q: Who was the first Plantagenet King of England? A: Henry the Second
Q: Which mountain was known as Peak XV until 1865? A: Mount Everest
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Britain at the start of the First World War? A: Herbert Asquith
Q: How many players does an American Football team normally have on the field at one time? A: Eleven
Q: What are the two ingredients of a screwdriver cocktail? A: Vodka and orange juice
Q: In February 1967, Ronald Ryan became the last man to be hanged in which country, for murdering a guard while escaping from prison in 1965? A: Australia
Q: In February 1942, Antonio Oscar Carmona was re-elected as president of which European country? A: Portugal
Q: What was the nickname of the largest fixed-wing flying boat ever built, the Hughes H-4 Hercules, flown by Howard Hughes in November 1947, for just eight minutes, its only ever flight? A: The Spruce Goose
Q: Who was the first person to fly solo from Hawaii to California? A: Amelia Earhart
Q: In May 1941, who parachuted into Scotland from Germany claiming to be on a peace mission? A: Rudolph Hess
Q: What was the small British militant group responsible for a series of letter bomb attacks between 1970 and 1972, whose targets included banks, embassies and the homes of Conservative MPs? A: The Angry Brigade
Q: Which American expatriate poet and author was arrested by American soldiers in Italy in May 1945 for treason? A: Ezra Pound
Q: In June 1952, a nuclear test was held in which US desert? A: Nevada Desert
Q: Norman Rockwell's illustration of which US iconic World War II heroine appeared on the cover of the Saturday Evening Post in May 1943? A: Rosie the Riveter
Q: In March 1971, who defeated boxer Muhammad Ali at Madison Square Garden? A: Joe Frazier
Q: What was Thornton Wilder's play performed for the first time ever in 1938 in Princeton, New Jersey? A: Our Town
Q: Who made the 'I Am Prepared to Die' speech at the opening of the Rivonia Trial in April 1964? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: In October 1973, who resigned as Vice President of the US, and then pleaded no contest to the charges of income tax evasion in a federal court in Baltimore? A: Spiro T Agnew
Q: In April 1946, Derby County beat which football team in the first FA Cup final since the end of the war? A: Charlton Athletic
Q: What became the name of the crime in which eleven thieves stole more than $2 million in a heist in Boston, Massachusetts, in January 1950? A: Great Brinks Robbery
Q: Who did Marilyn Monroe marry in January 1954? A: Joe Dimaggio
Q: In October 1960, Dr Michael Woodruff carried out the first successful transplant of what at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary in the UK? A: Kidney
Q: In 1974, what was the title of Stephen King's first published novel? A: Carrie
Q: Who founded Tamla Motown Records in January 1959? A: Berry Gordy Jr
Q: In Britain, the Education Act of March 1944 provided free what in schools to all children in the UK under the age of 18? A: Milk
Q: In March 1951, which comic strip by Hank Ketcham appeared in newspapers accross the US for the first time? A: Dennis the Menace
Q: The Treaty of where established the European Economic Community in March 1957? A: Rome
Q: What was the name of the Coca-Cola Company's first diet drink, launched in 1963? A: TaB
Q: In a Los Angeles court, in March 1969, who admitted killing presidential candidate Robert Kennedy? A: Sirhan Sirhan
Q: Published in August 1953, what is the name of the Report on 'Sexual Behaviour in the Human Female'? A: The Kinsey Report
Q: Who became Prime Minister of Britain in April 1955? A: Anthony Eden
Q: Women compete for the Corbillon Cup in which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: What is the colouring agent E102 also known as? A: Tartrazine
Q: What is the name of Israel's secret intelligence agency? A: Mossad
Q: What was the name of the judge, known as 'The Hanging Judge', in the Bloody Assizes of 1685? A: Judge Jeffreys
Q: David Balfour is the hero of which Robert Louis Stevenson novel? A: Kidnapped
Q: The Maskelyne Award is associated with which branch of entertainment? A: Magic
Q: Malpensa Airport serves which European city? A: Milan
Q: Its name shared by a species of goose, what are the marine crustaceans which live attached to submerged surfaces, such as the bottoms of boats? A: Barnacles
Q: A lachrymator is a substance that irritates which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Mutter is the Indian term for which type of foodstuff? A: Peas
Q: The Abominable Snowman is said to inhabit which mountain range? A: Himalayas
Q: How many square yards in a UK acre? A: 4,840
Q: An aileron is found on which part of an aircraft? A: Wing
Q: In needlework, what is the technique in which pieces of fabric are attached to another piece of material for decoration? A: Applique
Q: What is the croup of an animal, such as a horse? A: Rump
Q: A caryatid is a supporting column or pillar of a building carved in the shape of what? A: Woman
Q: Name the Italian-born American film producer (of Death Wish, Barbarella, and Hannibal) who died in November 2010 age 91? A: Dino De Laurentis
Q: What island nation suffered a serious cholera outbreak in late 2010, partly as a consequence of a major earthquake in January the same year? A: Haiti
Q: The UK Conservative Party HQ in London, trashed during student protests in November 2010, is known by its address of 30 'what' ? A: Millbank
Q: Greenland is a self-governing territory of which country? A: Denmark
Q: What high-tech manufacturing corporation agreed to buy the security software company McAfee for $7.7bn in summer 2010? A: Intel
Q: In government figures released in 2010, how many terrorism arrests resulted from the 101,248 stop-and-searches under UK counter-terrorism powers in 2009? A: None
Q: What African country, south of Libya, west of Sudan, and east of Niger, has the capital N'Djamena? A: Chad
Q: Forbes Magazine reported in 2010 the most expensive (real estate) US zip code to be 91008 Duarte, in which US state? A: California
Q: What music and dance style takes its name from an elegant bird and the healthy colour and provocative appearance of the early gypsy artists who popularised it. A: Flamenco
Q: Name the German manufacturer of 2nd World War fighter planes which pioneered the micro car? A: Messerschmitt
Q: Sony announced in 2010 what iconic device would cease to be made after April 2011? A: The Walkman
Q: What musical instrument is financier and mogul Warren Buffett associated with, notably because of his performances to shareholders? A: Ukulele
Q: What is the fruit of the blackthorn tree? A: Sloe
Q: The Cathedral of Saint Mary, at one time the largest church in the world, and burial place of Christopher Columbus, is in which city, by whose name it is better known? A: Seville
Q: What US state has the longest coastline? A: Alaska
Q: The UK Independent Scientific Committee on Drugs reported in November 2010 that what was the most dangerous drug (based on a complex study across nine categories of harmful effects)? A: Alcohol
Q: Whose memoir 'Decision Points' was published in late 2010? A: George W Bush
Q: Name the popular illegal filesharing website found liable for copyright breach by a New York court in October 2010? A: Limewire
Q: Hallus valgus is the medical term for what common condition? A: Bunions
Q: What is/was the Emperor of Exmoor, subject of much debate and news coverage about being the largest beast living wild in the UK, and whether it had actually been shot dead or not in late 2010? A: Stag
Q: In anatomy, the dorsum is better known as which part of the body? A: Back
Q: In 1947, who was the first person to break the sound barrier? A: Chuck Yeager
Q: Meaning 'heavenly woman', from the Greek word after which an element and planet are named, who was the Greek muse of astronomy? A: Urania
Q: What type of creature is a noctule? A: Bat
Q: What colour is the flower of the milk thistle? A: Purple
Q: The twisted tusk of which sea creature is said to protrude from a unicorns head? A: Narwhal
Q: The city of Astrakhan lies on which river? A: River Volga
Q: Which US president, known commonly by his initials, was born in Stonewall, Texas in 1908? A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: Actor and comedian, and half of a famous double-act, Arthur Stanley Jefferson was better known by which name? A: Stan Laurel
Q: Which European airport has the code name LHR? A: London Heathrow
Q: English novelist Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson was better known by what name? A: Mrs Gaskell
Q: The laxative Gregory's Powder was made from which leafy plant? A: Rhubarb
Q: The bummalo fish is better known by what name? A: Bombay Duck
Q: David Beckham was shown a red card during England's game against which national team during the 1998 FIFA World Cup? A: Argentina
Q: What is the name of the small arrangement of flowers worn on the bodice of a dress or on the wrist? A: Corsage
Q: What is the medieval from of chemistry concerned with attempting to change base metals into gold? A: Alchemy
Q: In tennis, what is the term for an untouchable and unreturnable legal point-scoring serve? A: Ace
Q: In the UK, who was elected president of the National Union of Mineworkers in 1981? A: Arthur Scargill
Q: What is the device in a car which mixes petrol with air in correct proportions before it enters the engine? A: Carburettor
Q: Referring to a mountain range, derived from the Spanish word for saw, what word represents the letter 'S' in the NATO phonetic alphabet? A: Sierra
Q: What is the basic monetary unit of Australia? A: Australian Dollar
Q: The Dettifoss Waterfalls are in which country? A: Iceland
Q: Which city, whose name means 'fortification at Eidyn', was the first to host the Commonwealth Games twice? A: Edinburgh
Q: Valletta is the capital of which European country? A: Malta
Q: In the game of Scrabble, how many points is a 'V' tile worth? A: Four
Q: "In the Bible's Old Testament Book of Proverbs, what is stated to be more precious than rubies, better than silver and gold, and ""...all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her...""?" A: Wisdom
Q: What is the process in which hair and small blemishes are removed from the body by the application of heat using electric current? A: Electrolysis
Q: What is the edible sea snail of the genus Haliotis, which has an ear-shaped shell with a pearly interior? A: Abalone
Q: The fundamental philosophical and devotional epic stories Mahabharata and Ramayana originated in Sanskrit in which ancient country? A: India
Q: What was the tribe of ancient Britons of Eastern England whose queen was Boudica (Boadicea)? A: Iceni
Q: What is the capital of Ghana? A: Accra
Q: What is the African antelope whose male of the species have lyre-shaped horns? A: Impala
Q: What is the Roman numeral LXXXVIII? A: Eighty-eight
Q: What is the code of silence which prohibits speaking about, or divulging information about, criminal activities, used by the Mafia? A: Omerta
Q: What is a bottomless pit or chasm, a very deep gorge, or a reference to something unfathomable and usually threatening or chaotic, such as hell? A: Abyss
Q: What is the flat round cake made from flaky pastry and filled with currants, named after a town in Greater Manchester, England? A: Eccles
Q: What is the inner and larger of the two bones in the human forearm? A: Ulna
Q: What food has the varieties Elstar, Almata and Cortland? A: Apple
Q: What is the scarlet banner of Saint Dennis used by early French kings when setting out for war? A: Oriflamme
Q: What is a dish sprinkled with breadcrumbs or grated cheese and browned? A: Au Gratin
Q: Before the Euro, what was the basic monetary unit of Portugal? A: Escudo
Q: What is the play by Shakespeare featuring the court jester Touchstone? A: As You Like It
Q: What is the fifteenth letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Omicron
Q: What means relating to or similar to bears? A: Ursine
Q: What is the final and longest section of the human small intestine? A: Ileum
Q: What is the lair of a fox? A: Earth
Q: What is a word made from the initials of other words in a phrase or sequence? A: Acronym
Q: The Royal Navy flagship aircraft carrier, which along with its Harrier jump jets was withdrawn from service late 2010, is HMS what? A: Ark Royal
Q: Which Cuban dictator was overthrown by Fidel Castro in 1959? A: Batista
Q: What massive effect did these countries experience in the years stated? A: Economic collapse
Q: Which fruit is used in the flavouring of the cognac-based liqueur Grand Marnier? A: Orange
Q: What colour is the cross on the national flag of Finland? A: Blue
Q: A statue of which British prime minister stands outside Huddersfield railway station? A: Harold Wilson
Q: After nearly 40 years of TV advertising, what Kimberly-Clark brand replaced a real animal with a CGI (computer generated imagery) in late 2010? A: Andrex
Q: Controversial singer Brian Hugh Warner is better known by which name (also his band name), a combination borrowed from two iconic real American people? A: Marilyn Manson
Q: Medoc is a wine region in which country? A: France
Q: What geographical feature is shared by the nine nations of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana? A: The Amazon Rainforest
Q: Marnie Geneva Doud was the wife of which US president, the country's 34th? A: Dwight D Eisenhower
Q: What is the name of the fabric used to cover billiard tables and card tables? A: Baize
Q: In June 1935, which well-known but discreet support organization was founded by William G Wilson and Dr Robert Smith in Akron, Ohio? A: Alcoholics Anonymous
Q: A hazzan, or chazzan, leads the congregation in songful prayer in which religion? A: Jewish
Q: Which artist's studio was known as The Factory? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Who wrote the 1899 poem/song lyrics 'The Absented-Minded Beggar', set to music and used to raise money for British Boer War soldiers? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: French farmer's wife, Marie Harel, reputedly invented which cheese in 1791? A: Camembert
Q: If an insect is micropterous it has small or reduced what? A: Wings
Q: Which strait separates Wales form the island of Anglesey? A: Menai Strait
Q: According to the Bible, in which river did Pharaoh's daughter find the baby Moses in a basket? A: River Nile
Q: In what country, the world's seventh largest by geographical area, is Christmas known as Bada Din (the big day)? A: India
Q: Christmas Island, in the Indian Ocean, is a territory of which country? A: Australia
Q: 'Three Kings Day' is known by what numerical name (that's 'name', not 'date') in Britain? A: Twelfth Night
Q: The North Pole, said to be Santa's home, is located in which ocean? A: Arctic Ocean
Q: Marzipan is made (conventionally in the western world) mainly from sugar and the flour or meal of which nut? A: Almond
Q: What is the technical name of Mistletoe plant genus, and also Latin for glutinous? A: Viscum
Q: Which American-born English poet, having first names Thomas Stearns, wrote the poem The Cultivation Of Christmas Trees? A: T S Eliot
Q: Which Christmas slogan was introduced by Clarissa Baldwin of Dogs Trust in 1978? A: A Dog Is For Life, Not Just For Christmas
Q: Which British monarch (born 1865, died 1936) introduced the custom of giving thousands of Christmas puddings to staff? A: King George V
Q: In the UK it is traditionally believed that eating a what each day of the twelve days of Christmas brings happiness the following year? A: Mince pie
Q: What is the surname of the family in the 1989 film 'National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation'? A: Griswold
Q: Which southern central US state, whose capital city has the same name, was the last to recognize Christmas as an official holiday? A: Oklahoma
Q: In which country, the largest of its continent, is it said that finding a spider web on Christmas morning brings good luck, and so Christmas trees are decorated with artificial spider webs? A: Ukraine
Q: What day of the week was Christmas day in the year 2000 (in the conventional western calendar)? A: Monday
Q: Under which Puritan leader did the English parliament pass a law banning Christmas in 1647? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: In which European country is it said that malicious goblins called Kallikantzoroi (or Kallikantzari - singular Kallikantzoros) play troublesome pranks at Christmas? A: Greece
Q: Very loosely related to Christmas, the predatory animal 'uncia uncia' is better known by what name? A: Snow Leopard
Q: In the song 'The Twelve Days Of Christmas', how many swans were a-swimming? A: Seven
Q: The first singing radio commercial, which aired in the US on Christmas Eve 1926, was for which brand? A: Wheaties
Q: Driving Home For Christmas was a 1988 hit single for which singer? A: Chris Rea
Q: The Latin word meaning 'coming' gave us what term which still refers to the coming Christmas period, and also to a particular tradition popular with children? A: Advent
Q: In which country does Santa have his own personal postcode HOH OHO? A: Canada
Q: In 2004, the post office of which country (international dialling code 49) gave away twenty million free scented stickers, to make Christmas cards smell like fir trees, cinammon, gingerbread or honey wax? A: Germany
Q: 'Nadolig Llawen' means Merry Christmas in which western European language? A: Welsh
Q: 'Olive the Other... (what?)', is a Christmas book by Vivian Walsh and J Otto Seibold? A: Reindeer
Q: In which country, an archipelago of 6,852 islands, is it considered inappropriate to send red Christmas cards? A: Japan
Q: The surname Chandler derives from the making or selling of what? A: Candles
Q: Name the pin-up celebrity who appeared on a provocative poster for PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) in 2010, with her body marked as if for cuts of meat? A: Pamela Anderson
Q: What material invented by Marc Chavannes and Al Fielding originally as a textured wallpaper celebrated 50 years of quite different and popular use in 2010? A: Bubblewrap
Q: Name the long-standing Rwanda president in the news during 2010 after human rights criticisms? A: Paul Kagame
Q: What state in Mexico was hit by a devastating mudslide in September 2010? A: Oaxaca
Q: In 2010, scenes of tobacco smoking attracted a fine for the broadcasters of what 1950-60s boy-hero cartoon series in Turkey? A: Tintin
Q: With which country did France agree a 50 year treaty in November 2010 entailing joint forces, and sharing an aircraft carrier and nuclear technology? A: UK
Q: What island nation was hit by an earthquake and tsunami disaster in October 2010? A: Indonesia
Q: What was Tony McCoy's winning mount in the 2010 Grand National? A: Don't Push It
Q: Who won golf's 2010 Masters Championship? A: Phil Mickelson
Q: What iconic London institution was sold to the Qatar Investment Authority (Qatar's sovereign wealth fund) in May 2010? A: Harrods
Q: According to official figures released in 2010, what country originated the most refugees during the previous 30 years? A: Afghanistan
Q: Name the controversial leader of the Dutch right-wing Freedom Party which won 24 seats in the Dutch elections, who was refused entry into the UK for his 'racist views'? A: Geert Wilders
Q: Sacked whistleblower Cheryl Eckard was awarded $96m compensation against what pharmaceuticals corporation following malpractice at the Cidra plant in Puerto Rico? A: GlaxoSmithKline
Q: What capital city was devastated by the 2010 Haiti earthquake? A: Port au Prince
Q: Freedom of expression blogger Hossein Derakhshan was sentenced in September 2010 to nineteen years prison for 'anti-state activities' in which country? A: Iran
Q: A plane crash close to Smolensk airport in western Russia killed almost half the leadership of which country? A: Poland
Q: Who bought Channel 5 TV in the UK, resisting objections that his pornography interests made him unsuitable? A: Richard Desmond
Q: Charles Taylor, in court (along with witnesses Naomi Campbell and Mia Farrow) at the Hague in 2010, the first African president to face trial for war crimes, led which nation? A: Liberia
Q: What secret service organization was accused of forging British passports for its agents allegedly responsible for an assassination in Dubai? A: Mossad
Q: Food writer and critic Egon Ronay, who died in 2010, was born in what country, which offers a food related pun? A: Hungary
Q: Name the gymnastic group which won the 2010 Britain's Got Talent TV show? A: Spellbound
Q: "Singer Jimmy Dean, who died in 2010 age 81, sang (in a very deep voice) what hit song about about a heroic 6'6"" coal miner?" A: Big Bad John
Q: Who in 2010 won Great Britain's first individual Winter Olympics female gold medal since 1952? A: Amy Williams
Q: "Giant George, at 7'3"" from nose to tail, and 43"" shoulder high, was announced the world's tallest what in 2010 by Guinness World Records?" A: Dog
Q: The 1600cc Thunderbird, voted 2010 Bike of the Year in the USA, is made by which iconic motorbike manufacturer? A: Triumph
Q: Name the popular writer, who died in 2010, and who rode the Queen Mother's horse Devon Loch when it inexplicably belly-flopped out of contention in the 1956 Grand National? A: Dick Francis
Q: Which environmental campaigner, whose band's 2010 European tour required 120 lorries to transport it, pulled out of the 2010 Glastonbury headline spot due to a back injury? A: Bono
Q: American Shaun White performed his unique Double McTwist 1260 move in winning Olympic gold for the second time in what event? A: Halfpipe Snowboard
Q: Peter O'Donnell, who died in 2010, created what globally syndicated newspaper comic strip heroine, later featuring in books and movies, whose name equates to 'understated fire'? A: Modesty Blaise
Q: Which far-eastern city saw fatal riots in May 2010 involving red-shirted protestors opposed to the national government? A: Bangkok
Q: What Danish discount grocer did Walmart's Asda buy for £778m in 2010? A: Netto
Q: British Airways announced a merger with which other airline in 2010? A: Iberia
Q: Name the US general and commander of Nato forces in Afghanistan sacked by Barack Obama in 2010? A: Stanley McChrystal
Q: Over-zealous council officials in Bristol UK, patrolling local countryside, instructed a picnicking family against the use of what, because it was in breach of local byelaws? A: Windbreak
Q: Which England football player was sent off on his 2010/11 season debut for Liverpool? A: Joe Cole
Q: A war crimes tribunal in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, coinvicted chief jailer Kaing Guek Eav (also called Kang Kek Iew or Kaing Kek Iev) of what regime, responsible for the 1.7m deaths in the 1970s 'Killing Fields' genocide? A: Khmer Rouge
Q: Name the journalist and writer and leader of the influential Work Foundation research organization, bought by Lancaster University in 2010? A: Will Hutton
Q: Born Hermine Santruschitz in Vienna, adopted as Miep Gies in Amsterdam, who died age 100 in 2010, helped protect which famous writer? A: Anne Frank
Q: An adaptation of which classic 1905 story by E Nesbit received rave reviews when it was performed with dramatic real effects at London's Waterloo Station in Summer 2010? A: The Railway Children
Q: Ex-world champion boxer Alan Rudkin, who died in September 2010, fought at what weight? A: Bantamweight
Q: Which notable doctor and ex-politician dueted on piano with Aretha Franklin at a Philadelphia fund-raising concert? A: Condoleeza Rice
Q: In 2010 India announced the reintroduction of which animal, sixty years after being hunted to extinction in the wild? A: Cheetah
Q: Name the sixteen year old Australian who completed her (claimed youngest ever) round-the-world sailing in May 2010? A: Jessica Watson
Q: Patricia Neal, winner of best actress Oscar for her role in the film Hud with Paul Newman, and who died in 2010 age 84, was married to which famous author? A: Roald Dahl
Q: The captive animal Tilikum which killed a person for the third time in 2010 at Orlando USA was what species? A: Killer Whale
Q: Welsh rugby union flanker Andy Powell was banned from driving after celebrating his team's Six nations win over Scotland by driving what vehicle on the M4 motorway while drunk? A: Golf buggy
Q: Andy Serkis starred in the film Sex and Drugs and Rock'n'Roll as what singer? A: Ian Dury
Q: Name the UK Tory Party donor and deputy chairman pressurised about his 'non-dom' tax status during 2010? A: Lord Ashcroft
Q: Sir Robert Mark, who died in 2010 age 93, held what notable UK post from 1967-77? A: Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Q: Internet hackers calling themselves the Iranian Cyber Army interrupted service of which Chinese search engine in January 2010? A: Baidu
Q: What is Burj Khalifa notable for becoming in 2010? A: The world's tallest building
Q: What Big European bank's name replaced those of Abbey, and Bradford & Bingley, in an extensive 2010 rebranding of its acquired branches? A: Santander
Q: An inquiry in which European country became the first to judge that the Iraq war had no lawful justification within international law? A: Netherlands
Q: Name the Yorkshireman who refereed the 2010 FIFA World Cup Final? A: Howard Webb
Q: Hospitalised in Saudi Arabia towards the end of his life, Umaru Musa Yar'Adua was president of where, from 2007 until his death in 2010? A: Nigeria
Q: English and French scientists argued publicly in 2010 over the existence of what, originally identified and named after German gynaecologist Ernst Grafenberg? A: The G-Spot
Q: Who was appointed official wedding photographer to Prince William and Kate Middleton? A: Mario Testino
Q: "A 2010 study published in the Lancet suggested what medicine, recently found to reduce cancer development, aside from giving protection against strokes and heart attacks, is ""...the most amazing drug in the world...""?" A: Aspirin
Q: What popular cereal brand has for decades featured a kilted athlete on its box? A: Scott's Porage Oats
Q: Which European country is known as 'The Cockpit of Europe'? A: Belgium
Q: Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin, Crick and Watson (DNA discoverers), the economist John Maynard Keynes, and the comedian John Cleese are among the notable alumni of which university? A: Cambridge
Q: What type of food is Sapsago, also called Sap Sago and Schabziger? A: Cheese
Q: What degree angle are the corners of a regular tetrahedron? A: 60
Q: Name the Google phone and software system which, according to some news reports in 2010, ended Nokia's 10 years' of market dominance? A: Android
Q: What is the full name of the football organization usually abbreviated to UEFA? A: Union of European Football Associations
Q: The move called 'en passant' features in what board game? A: Chess
Q: Named after its inventor, what is the signal lamp used to transmit Morse Code, devised in the late 1800s and still used today on naval ships? A: Aldis Lamp
Q: Who - UK cabinet minister for culture - had his name unspeakably 'spoonerised' live on air by BBC Radio 4 journalist James Naughtie (pronounced 'Nockty') in December 2010? A: Jeremy Hunt
Q: The largest sex discrimination lawsuit in US history, which began in 2001 and by 2010 involved 1.5m female workers was filed against which employer? A: Walmart
Q: Which Scottish castle did Queen Victoria and husband Prince Albert buy in 1852? A: Balmoral
Q: South-West is how many degrees on a compass? A: 225
Q: 'Cucumber Time' is the quiet season in which trade? A: Tailoring
Q: Which bird, which lays the largest egg in proportion to its body size of all birds, is an apteryx? A: Kiwi
Q: Who is the twin sister of Sebastian in William Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night'? A: Viola
Q: In which South American country is the region and its regional capital city called Arequipa, the nation's second largest city (as at 2010)? A: Peru
Q: What, alluding to a piece of broken glass, became London's tallest building when under construction during 2010? A: The Shard
Q: What was secret police of East Germany? A: Stasi
Q: The Shatt-al-Arab River is formed by the confluence of which two rivers, at Al-Qurnah, Iraq near Basra? A: Tigris and Euphrates
Q: 9.9498744 (to the nearest seven decimal places) is the square root of which whole number? A: 99
Q: How many minutes are there in a degree of an angle? A: 60
Q: Also a comic book character, what is an orderly assigned to serve a British Military Officer? A: Batman
Q: Who in May 1935 for Boston Braves played his last career baseball game? A: Babe Ruth
Q: What at the end of 2010 was Amazon's biggest ever selling product? A: Kindle
Q: In the Contract Bridge card game what are used to denote the four players' positions? A: Compass Points
Q: Who was the first British-born chef, and at the time the youngest ever, to win three Michelin Stars? A: Marco Pierre White
Q: Which Australian city is nicknamed The Big Smoke? A: Sydney
Q: An important Biafran army base in the 1967-70 conflict then known as the Biafran War, in which African country is Lake Oguta? A: Nigeria
Q: Suomi is the local name for which European country? A: Finland
Q: The term Paraskavedekatriaphobia informally refers to an irrational fear of what time-related concern? A: Friday 13th
Q: The Attan, a Pashtun ethnic dance, is the national dance of which country? A: Afghanistan
Q: Diplopia is the medical term for which condition of the human body? A: Double vision
Q: Battement tendu, Grand écart, Entrechat, Hortensia, and Sissonne are terms in what art form? A: Ballet
Q: Who captained England's last Ashes winning cricket team in Australia prior to their 2010 victory? A: Mike Gatting
Q: By which other name (alias) was the American outlaw Robert LeRoy Parker better known? A: Butch Cassidy
Q: On the Mohs' Scale of mineral hardness, what is number one and softest, with the formula Mg3Si4O10(OH)2 and found in many bathrooms? A: Talc
Q: What British coin, whose nickname strangely alludes to the leather industry, ceased to be legal tender in June 1980? A: Sixpence
Q: What degrees temperature is the same in Centigrade/Celsius as it is in Fahrenheit? A: -40
Q: In what form does keratin, the substance human fingernails and hair are made from, sell for more than gold, and endanger a species? A: Rhino horn
Q: The nuclear disaster site at Chernobyl, to which tourist visits begin/began in 2011, is in which country? A: Ukraine
Q: What symbol commonly used in print, and titles especially, derives from a combination of the letters E and T? A: Ampersand
Q: What is a filbert nut more commonly called, from the name of the tree bearing it? A: Hazelnut
Q: On a western-style Qwerty keyboard, what number shares the key with the % symbol? A: 5
Q: What important river in south-west France and north-west Spain gives access to Bordeaux, and links the Mediterranean Sea to the Bay of Biscay? A: Garonne
Q: Name the Scottish singer-songwriter (notably of Baker Street and as co-writer of Stuck in the Middle with You) who died early in 2011 age 63? A: Gerry Rafferty
Q: Which US president had the nickname 'King of Camelot'? A: John F Kennedy
Q: What is generally suggested to be the fourth spatial dimension in addition to the first three (of length, area and volume)? A: Time
Q: What German word refers to a 'double' of a living person, often an evil version? A: Doppelganger
Q: What is iron pyrites (iron disulfide, FeS2) commonly called, because it resembles a precious metal? A: Fool's Gold
Q: Related to the early development and measurement of steam engines what traditional unit of energy equates typically to between 735-746 watts? A: Horsepower
Q: Which famous composer is on the back of the UK £20 banknote withdrawn in 2010? A: Edward Elgar
Q: In the conventional game of pool ('eight-ball', or 'spots and stripes') what colour are the 3 and 11 balls? A: Red
Q: How many zeros are represented by the metric multiple prefix 'tera'? A: Twelve
Q: On a chessboard what square (using modern letter and number reference) would the white king pawn occupy if its first move was two squares forward? A: E4
Q: Abraham Maslow's fundamentally meaningful theory of motivation, popularly shown as a pyramid of motivational factors in a person's life, is known widely as Maslow's what? A: Hierarchy of Needs
Q: The Crimean Peninsula is part of which European country? A: Ukraine
Q: What is the vein running along the centre of a leaf called? A: Midrib
Q: The disease beriberi is caused by the deficiency of which vitamin? A: B1
Q: What is measured in Hertz? A: Frequency
Q: 24 Sussex Drive is the official residence of the Prime Minister of which country? A: Canada
Q: Hyperion and Rhea are two moons of which planet in our solar system? A: Saturn
Q: """This is a sharp medicine, but it is a physician for all diseases and miseries..."" is attributed to which historical figure as he was about to be executed, in 1618?" A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: Which English poet is associated with Dove Cottage in Grasmere? A: William Wordsworth
Q: What does the well known Latin phrase 'cogito, ergo sum', commonly attributed to René Descartes, translate as in English? A: I think, therefore I am
Q: In which country was astronomer and scientist Nicolaus Copernicus born? A: Poland
Q: Which country is referred to as 'The Land of the Long White Cloud'? A: New Zealand
Q: Astigmatism affects which part of the human body? A: Eye
Q: The Capuchin Catacombs are on which Mediterranean island? A: Sicily
Q: Which English king, who lived from about 988-993 to 1016, was nicknamed Ironside? A: Edmund II
Q: Glyptogography, or glyptics, is the art of carving or engraving on what? A: Gemstones
Q: Which artist painted the 'Man in a Red Turban'? A: Jan van Eyck
Q: 'The Landlord's Game', patented in the US by Elizabeth Magie in 1904, was a form of which now popular board game? A: Monopoly
Q: Which musical note has the same value as half a semibreve or two crochets? A: Minim
Q: Which sportswear company was founded as 'Blue Ribbon Sports' by Bill Bowerman and Philip Knight in 1964? A: Nike
Q: What type of insect is a devil's coach horse? A: Beetle
Q: In which controversial novel and film does the Korova Milk Bar appear? A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: What is the term for a word formed from the initial letters of other words, such as NATO? A: Acronym
Q: What is the ancient axe-like hand tool used for shaping wood, especially in boat-building, with a curved blade at right angles to the line of the handle (unlike a conventional axe whose blade is in line with the handle)? A: Adze
Q: The England footballer Nat Lofthouse, who died age 85 in 2011, earned what nickname (an animal of a city) after his courageous match-winning performance against Austria in 1952? A: The Lion of Vienna
Q: Brabantio is whose father in Shakespeare's play Othello? A: Desdemona
Q: In April 1940, author and political leader Booker T Washington became the first African American to be depicted on an American what? A: Postage stamp
Q: The village of Tolpuddle, the home of the 19th century Tolpuddle Martyrs, is in which English county? A: Dorset
Q: Aside from being a 'nuisance' if one gets into your garden, what is an animal called that feeds only on plants? A: Herbivore
Q: In England, celebrating the restoration of the monarchy in 1660, on which date was Oak Apple Day celebrated? A: 29th May
Q: The Pictish language was spoken in which nation in early medieval times? A: Scotland
Q: In Norse mythology, from which type of tree was the first man created? A: Ash
Q: What is the name of the Japanese plant, used as a condiment in cooking, with a thick green root which tastes like strong horseradish? A: Wasabi
Q: Algeria became independent from which European country in 1962 after over 100 years of rule? A: France
Q: In 2011 the notorious ex-dictator Jean-Claude 'Baby Doc' Duvalier returned to and was arrested in which country? A: Haiti
Q: What was the name of the American pioneer whose son was killed when a party of pioneers was led into Kentucky in 1773? A: Daniel Boone
Q: In Greek mythology, Algaia, Thalia and Euphrosyne are the three what? A: Graces
Q: Reportedly written by Julius Caesar in 47BC, what do the words 'Veni, vidi, vici,' translate to in English? A: I came, I saw, I conquered
Q: The only Swiss guard still in existence serve in which European city? A: Vatican City
Q: Lee Hsien Loong was reportedly the highest paid what, globally, in 2010? A: National leader
Q: Hezbollah is a political/terrorist organization in which country? A: Lebanon
Q: Relating to the sea, what are spring and neap? A: Tides
Q: Apron, Borrow and Line are terms associated with which sport? A: Golf
Q: Jutland is part of which European country? A: Denmark
Q: In heraldry, what is a wyvern? A: Dragon
Q: "In January 2011 British government sports minister Hugh Roberts asserted what to be the ""...worst governed sport in the country..""?" A: Football
Q: What is the descriptively named painting technique where tiny dots blend to form a picture? A: Pointillism
Q: What flowers prompted William Wordsworth write (and title) a poem about after seeing them at Lake Ullswater in 1802? A: Daffodils
Q: Which fish is known in the British fishing industry as 'Silver Darlings'? A: Herring
Q: What is the basic monetary unit of Iceland? A: Krona
Q: What was poet Lord Byron's first name? A: George
Q: Eric Schmidt announced in 2011 stepping down from CEO to Executive Chairman of what corporation, whose vast growth in the 2000s he oversaw? A: Google
Q: Jazz musician Gene Krupa was famous for playing which musical instrument? A: Drums
Q: 'Dancer' was the American Secret Service code name for the wife of which US president? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: On which of the Great Lakes does the city of Milwaukee lie? A: Michigan
Q: What farming disease was reported in 2011 to have virtually disappeared, 25 years after its emergence and scary projection? A: BSE
Q: In certain species of birds, what is the name of the pouch used for temporarily storing food? A: Crop
Q: Buried in Highgate in London and subsequently immortalised in economic and social theory, who wrote The Communist Manifesto in 1848? A: Karl Marx
Q: Name the fantasy North Wales village used in film and TV (notably the 1960s 'The Prisoner' series), at one time directly related to a porcelain company of the same name which now owns the Spode and Royal Worcester brands? A: Portmeirion
Q: In which year was the first British vehicle registration issued? A: 1903
Q: Which UK football team is nicknamed 'The Posh'? A: Peterborough United
Q: Jamaica Inn, made famous by writer Daphne du Maurier, lies on which moor? A: Bodmin
Q: The 'Hogarth' or 'S Shape' is an arrangement of what? A: Flowers
Q: Wendy Deng are the first names of what famous media mogul's wife? A: Rupert Murdoch
Q: What is the longest side of a right-angled triangle called? A: Hypotenuse
Q: Mycology is the branch of biology concerned with the study of what? A: Fungi
Q: Who was British ex-prime minister Tony Blair's press secretary and influential strategist? A: Alistair Campbell
Q: In 1869, Frenchman Eugene Meyer invented a wheel for which mode of transport, and became regarded as a father of the 'high' version of the machine? A: Bicycle
Q: What Swiss Alpine town hosts the annual World Economic Forum gathering of international leaders, financiers and business chiefs? A: Davos
Q: Claret wine comes from which wine region of France? A: Bordeaux
Q: Name the only G8 nation whose law, subject to challenge in 2011, requires a married couple to adopt only one surname? A: Japan
Q: What is the term, of French origin, loosely translated 'into mouth', for using facial muscles and shaping the lips for the mouthpiece to play a woodwind or brass musical instrument? A: Embouchure
Q: Which European country found itself without a government from June 2010 into 2011 because of failed coalition talks between its seven political parties? A: Belgium
Q: Which book of the Bible features Noah's Ark? A: Genesis
Q: A 'salt eel' is a nautical term for the end of a what? A: Rope
Q: Which species of animal at an East German zoo had a hip replacement operation in January 2011? A: Tiger
Q: In his 2011 memoir, Known and Unknown, which US ex-politician deflected blame onto others including Colin Powell and Condoleeza Rice for Iraq War mistakes? A: Donald Rumsfeld
Q: Which football club broke the British transfer record in January 2011 by paying Liverpool F C £50million for Fernando Torres? A: Chelsea
Q: How many vertices (corners) has a regular dodecahedron (a dodecahedon is a 3D form with 12 faces)? A: 20
Q: English 17th century 'Hearth Money' was a tax on which part of a house? A: Chimney
Q: The Salmon River in Idaho USA is known by what nickname, (also the name of a 1954 film, whose title soundtrack was recorded by each of its stars, Marilyn Monroe and Robert Mitchum)? A: The River of No Return
Q: Which prolific 18th century German-British composer created Water Music, Music for the Royal Fireworks and the opera Serse? A: George Frideric Handel
Q: An English folk name for the green woodpecker, based on an aspect of its behaviour is a? A: Yaffle
Q: A major critic of the conventional notion of God, who wrote the 1976 book, extending ideas of natural selection in evolution, The Selfish Gene? A: Richard Dawkins
Q: First made in 18th century France, a bergere (correctly bergère, confusingly meaning shepherdess), is what type of furniture? A: Chair
Q: British photographer Carl Warner's collection of landscapes went on display in London in October 2010. What did he use to create the landscapes? A: Food
Q: Brougham, Hackney, Buckboard, and Phaeton are horse-drawn vehicles with how many wheels each? A: Four
Q: A papal cross has how many horizontal sections? A: Three
Q: Which World War II leader was captured in April 1945 trying to flee to Switzerland with gold and looted Ethiopian sovereigns which became known as The Treasure of Dongo? A: Mussolini
Q: In what country are/were violent demonstrations in 2011 against President Hosni Mubarak and his 30-year leadership? A: Egypt
Q: Who beat Andy Murray in final of the Australian Open tennis championship in January 2011? A: Novak Djokovic
Q: Which British film secured the most Oscar nominations, and top commendation at the Directors Guild of American Awards, in January 2011? A: The King's Speech
Q: What were the first names of retailer F W Woolworth, the second of which was a store brand? A: Frank Winfield
Q: """Hale knew before he had been in Brighton three hours that they meant to murder him..."" are the opening words to which Graham Greene novel?" A: Brighton Rock
Q: Bayern is the German name for which region of Germany? A: Bavaria
Q: Skiving, beading and perforating are terms used in which industry? A: Shoemaking
Q: What number is topaz on the Mohs scale of hardness? A: Eight
Q: Which British high street retailer started selling DNA/paternity tests over the counter in January 2011? A: Boots
Q: Famille-rose porcelain originated in which country? A: China
Q: Actress Maria Schneider who died in 2011 age 58 was famous for her role in what iconic sexually explicit film? A: Last Tango in Paris
Q: What is the top-level internet domain suffix for the country of Turkey? A: tr
Q: Basrelief, cameo, restrike, and anaglyph and technical terms within what art form? A: Sculpture
Q: The Middle Eastern dish falafel or felafel usually contains onions, parsley, coriander and what main ingredient? A: Chickpeas
Q: What mineral is an Alaskan diamond? A: Quartz
Q: The Portuguese Man o' War (a sea-dwelling jellyfish-like invertebrate) alludes to a warship design devised in which country? A: England
Q: In the story of Cinderella (the French medieval version, which gave us the modern Western version) what were Cinderella's slippers made from? A: Squirrel fur
Q: From what type of creature is Bombay duck made? A: Fish
Q: What colour is orange blossom? A: White
Q: Where did Panama hats originate? A: Ecuador
Q: What type of animal inspired the creation of Bugs Bunny, Brer Rabbit, and the Easter Bunny? A: Hare
Q: What type of building is a picture palace? A: Cinema
Q: What is the main fruit ingredient of the traditional (orange) Jaffa Cake biscuit? A: Apricot
Q: What type of creature is a prairie dog? A: Rodent
Q: What meat is hamburger made from? A: Beef
Q: How many people were in the band The Thompson Twins? A: Three
Q: What type of alcoholic drink is barley wine? A: Beer
Q: What is the main ingredient of the dish Welsh Rabbit? A: Cheese
Q: What colour is the black box on a plane? A: Orange
Q: In what continent did camels first evolve? A: North America
Q: In what country was Canadian Club whiskey first distilled? A: USA
Q: What are toy marbles made from? A: Glass
Q: What is kitchen tin foil made from? A: Aluminium
Q: How long was the 100 Years War? A: 116 years
Q: What is the lead in a lead pencil made from? A: Graphite
Q: Who first devised the central relativity principle within Einstein's Theory of Relativity? A: Galileo
Q: What is the foodstuff head cheese made from? A: Meat
Q: What type of insect is a velvet ant? A: Wasp
Q: Catgut (for old musical instrument strings and tennis rackets, etc) was usually made from the intestines of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: What type of creature is a horned toad? A: Lizard
Q: What is the liquid inside a coconut? A: Coconut water
Q: What colour are white grapes? A: Green
Q: Where does a busboy or busgirl work? A: Restaurant
Q: In what country was the game Chinese Checkers (or Chinese Chequers) invented? A: Germany
Q: What was Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's (original) middle name? A: Wolfgang
Q: What creatures are the Canary Islands named after? A: Dogs
Q: What sort of fruit is a Chinese gooseberry? A: Kiwifruit
Q: What colour is a (male) purple finch? A: Red
Q: What type of insect is a Spanish fly? A: Beetle
Q: Arabic numerals originated in which country? A: India
Q: What are sticks of blackboard chalk made from? A: Gypsum
Q: A geography term from French and Arabic, what is an erg made of? A: Sand
Q: Which famous Belfast born guitarist, who played with Thin Lizzy for a while, died on 6th February 2011? A: Gary Moore
Q: Ex-US president George W Bush cancelled a trip to which European country in February 2011 due to fears that he could be arrested for ordering the torture of prisoners? A: Switzerland
Q: Which Formula One racing driver was injured in a high-speed rally accident in Italy in February 2011? A: Robert Kubica
Q: What was the codename of the Iraqi agent who admitted lying to US intelligence services about the existence of weapons of mass destruction, and providing US/UK justification for the Iraq War? A: Curveball
Q: Clas Ohlson is a hugely popular DIY store chain based in which country? A: Sweden
Q: Hatha, Jnana, Bhakti and Karma are all branches of which activity? A: Yoga
Q: In British politics, what is the only one of the 'Four Great Offices of State' never (at at Feb 2011) held by a woman? A: Chancellor of the Exchequer
Q: A parody of Hitler and Nazism, what was Charlie Chaplin's first talking feature film? A: The Great Dictator
Q: Which European capital city is known as 'Pearl of the Danube'? A: Budapest
Q: What family of tectosilicate minerals, named from the German for 'field', is the most abundant in the Earth's crust? A: Feldspars
Q: Who won the American NFL Super Bowl in February 2011? A: The Green Bay Packers
Q: Menudo, a soup-like dish featuring tripe (beef stomach) and chili peppers, is from which country? A: Mexico
Q: The charter for what international organization was signed in San Francisco, in June 1945? A: United Nations
Q: How many squares are in the grid of a Sudoku number puzzle (this is not a trick question - individual squares - not including other 'squares' which could be formed from blocks of individual squares)? A: 81
Q: What English monarch was born in 1533? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Who wrote the play Man and Superman? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: If a leaf is obcordate, what shape is it? A: Heart-shaped
Q: The ground-dwelling mesite bird is confined to which island, fourth-largest globally, behind Greenland, New Guinea and Borneo (given that Australia is regarded as a continent, not an island)? A: Madagascar
Q: In Arthurian and Welsh Romance legendary stories, who was the faithful wife of Geraint/Gereint? A: Enid
Q: How many stars are on the national flag of The Cook Islands? A: Fifteen
Q: Producing meibum, an oily sealant, where on the human head are the meibomian glands ? A: Eyelids
Q: By what name is Siddartha Guatama better known? A: Buddha
Q: Galena is the primary ore mineral of which metal? A: Lead
Q: The world's largest working waterwheel, the Lady Isabella (also known as the Laxey Wheel), is on which island, known in its national language as Ellan Vannin? A: Isle of Man
Q: In which African country is the town of Lassa, where Lassa fever was first identified? A: Nigeria
Q: Englishman John Wycliffe's 14th century Lollardy movement addressed reform of what? A: Religion
Q: In UK politics, what flower is the emblem of the Labour Party? A: Rose
Q: According to the gospel of Luke, Zachariah and his barren wife Elizabeth were the parents of which great Biblical character? A: John the Baptist
Q: What is an angle called which is larger than 180 degrees and smaller than 360 degrees? A: Reflex angle
Q: In which European country did the 16th Century St Bartholomews Day Massacre take place? A: France
Q: What was the previous name of Taiwan, the island off the southeast coast of mainland China? A: Formosa
Q: Born Joseph Frank... by what name was the US silent film comic actor noted for his deadpan expression and pork-pie hats better known? A: Buster Keaton
Q: Which island group is known by the French as Iles Normande? A: The Channel Islands
Q: From the Greek meaning 'against', and 'a name', what is a word called which has the opposite meaning to another word? A: Antonym
Q: What are the fertile South American lowlands covering more than 750,000 square kilometres in Argentina and most of Uruguay? A: The Pampas
Q: Austrian monk and scientist Gregor Johann Mendel used which plant for the study and experiment of genetics and heredity of certain traits? A: Pea
Q: What is the name of the ship of (1960s UK TV) cartoon pirate Captain Pugwash? A: Black Pig
Q: In the British honours system where a man is made a Knight (i.e., becomes 'Sir...') what is the female equivalent? A: Dame
Q: What does the cockney rhyming slang, Butcher's, traditionally mean? A: Look
Q: South African Ron Hickman, (1932-11), designer of classic Lotus cars including the Elan and Europa, also designed what multi-million-selling DIY gadget? A: The Workmate
Q: What is the commonly used term for the subtle form of advertising by which brands are featured in films and TV programmes? A: Product placement
Q: Which fashion house sacked designer John Galliano in 2011, after his racist rant at fellow customers in a Paris cafe? A: Christian Dior
Q: Which tropical fish, named after an iconic four-legged beast, has the ability to regenerate its fins, skin and heart? A: Zebrafish
Q: The defence minister of which European country resigned in 2011, after he was found to have copied large parts of his 2006 university doctorate thesis? A: Germany
Q: What 1790 poem by Robert Burns inspired the naming of a hat, and also indirectly the tea clipper Cutty Sark? A: Tam o'Shanter
Q: Born in 1678, which Italian composer of choral works, over forty operas, and notably The Four Seasons violin concertos, was known as The Red Priest because of his auburn hair? A: Antonio Vivaldi
Q: Which Indian city, second largest in Rajasthan state behind capital Jaipur, after which styles of trousers and boots were named in the late 1800s, is known as 'Sun City' and the 'Blue City'? A: Jodhpur
Q: English cartoon character John Bull was provided with a sister called Peg (by creator Dr John Arbuthnott), representing which country of Great Britain? A: Scotland
Q: Two former Argentinian military leaders went on trial in February 2011, accused of stealing what from political prisoners? A: Babies
Q: What does the Latin phrase 'Vox populi' (shortened often in media to vox pop) translate to in English? A: Voice of the people
Q: Named after chairs found at the Bargello Palace in Florence, Italy, what type of handicraft is Bargello? A: Embroidery
Q: The North African social uprisings of 2010-11 caused the successive departure of leaders Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and Mohammed Ghannouchi from which country? A: Tunisia
Q: A suplex is an offensive move in which professional sport? A: Wrestling
Q: What religious term originally referring to the the most educated and literate officials and leaders within the church, evolved into a workplace title nowadays positioned at the other end of an organizational hierarchy? A: Clergy
Q: In which city was scientist Marie Curie born, whose residents are known as Varsovians? A: Warsaw
Q: Aviator and explorer, Richard Byrd, is said to have been the first person to reach where by air, in 1929? A: The South Pole
Q: Which planet in our solar system is almost twice as far away from the Sun as Jupiter? A: Saturn
Q: In 2011 a London ice cream parlour was in the news for selling an ice cream at £14.99 a scoop made from what? A: Human breast milk
Q: What is Uganda's staple crop, of which each adult consumes over three-times bodyweight annually? A: Bananas
Q: The mummified ancient man, thought killed by an arrow 5,300 years ago, is known as '(who?).. the Iceman' ? A: Otzi
Q: Which hollywood sex symbol, star of Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, died in 2011, aged 89? A: Jane Russell
Q: 100 degrees Celsius is how many degrees Fahrenheit? A: 212
Q: Which online music service announced in March 2011 achieving one million paying subscribers across Europe, of a total exceeding 10 million users? A: Spotify
Q: Mattel Inc closed its vast flagship retail store for what iconic product/brand in Shanghai, China, two years after its launch in 2009? A: Barbie
Q: In which European city are the headquarters of the European Central Bank? A: Frankfurt
Q: Which Jewish holiday is also known as the Day of Atonement? A: Yom Kippur
Q: The Tinikling, a dance using bamboo poles, is the (or a) main national dance of which 7,000-island nation? A: Philippines
Q: The Hallé Orchestra, named after its Anglo-German founder (born Karl Halle) is based in which city? A: Manchester
Q: What 1986 disaster caused pollution across Europe by the radioactive isotope caesium-137, which at least 25 years later still required livestock to be scanned on some UK upland farms? A: Chernobyl
Q: The liqueur sambuca originates from which European country? A: Italy
Q: Name the excessively cheerful optimistic heroine created by American author Eleanor H Porter in the famous 1913 eponymously titled book, and subsequent series, which became a term for someone of such attitude? A: Pollyanna
Q: The Scoville Scale is used to measure the heat of what? A: Chili peppers
Q: Eutrophication is the addition of natural or artificial nutrients to what, causing plant growth? A: Water
Q: Alberto Grando, who died in 2011 aged 88, was whose motorcycle companion in the 1950s? A: Che Guevara
Q: Which is the only Portuguese-speaking country in the Americas? A: Brazil
Q: Which US president in office 1945-53, is said to have coined the phrase 'If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen' ? A: Harry S Truman
Q: The 'cardinal points' are the four main points on what? A: Compass
Q: Which long-standing cartoon characters made their debut in 'Puss Gets The Boot' in February 1940, called originally Jasper and Jinx? A: Tom and Jerry
Q: Butoh, a ritualistic emotional dance involving extreme movement and stillness is from which country? A: Japan
Q: The Law of Large Numbers is a principle which seeks to explain what, commonly considered inexplicable? A: Coincidences
Q: What is the substance made from petroleum used for road surfacing, whose name derives from Greek meaning 'of foreign origin'? A: Asphalt
Q: The huge American springtime festival of film, music and technology SXSW is held where? A: Austin, Texas
Q: Cheese is said to combat tooth erosion because it contains what? A: Alkali
Q: Name the UK's greatest Paralympic medal winner (as at 2011)? A: Tanni Grey-Thompson
Q: Who wrote the opera Aida? A: Giuseppe Verdi
Q: Name Garry Trudeau's army-related cartoon strip? A: Doonesbury
Q: In the 2001 official UK national census what religion did 390,000 people incredibly claim to be? A: Jedi
Q: Name the US soldier arrested and imprisoned in 2010 in relation to Wikileaks' publication of thousands of secret US Defense documents, and subject to humanitarian protests about his treatment? A: Bradley Manning
Q: Mixing blue, red, and green light produces what colour/color? A: White
Q: Nate Dogg who died age 41 in 2011 found fame in what performance genre? A: Rap
Q: What is the main cereal component of UK flapjacks, known as Hudson Bay Bars in the USA? A: Oats
Q: What nation ended conscription to its Bundeswehr in 2011? A: Germany
Q: Recep Tayyip Erdogan took office in 2003 (2011 serves still) as prime minister of which country, connecting Europe and Asia? A: Turkey
Q: In what 'royal' village was Princess Diana born? A: Sandringham
Q: Ellen Johnson Sirleaf was elected president in 2005 of which war-torn African country, bordered by Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Côte d'Ivoire? A: Liberia
Q: What city, named after a month of the year, claims in recent tradition to host the largest street carnival in the world? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: US traitor Iva Toguri d'Aquino was better known by what name? A: Tokyo Rose
Q: What is the subtitle of Shakespeare's play 'Twelfth Night'? A: What You Will
Q: The Hubbard Medal, whose past winners include Sir Ernest Shackleton, Charles Lindbergh, and the Apollo 11 crew, is awarded by which society? A: National Geographic Society
Q: According to the Bible, how old was Methuselah when he fathered Lamech? A: 187
Q: The World Heritage city of Kandy is on which Asian island, whose name means in Sanskrit 'venerable island', and whose previous colonial name is strongly associated with tea? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What is Ananas Comosus, defined as as 'multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries'? A: Pineapple
Q: The D H Lawrence novel The Plumed Serpent is set in which country, bordered on the south-east by Guatemala, Belize and the Caribbean Sea? A: Mexico
Q: Which publishing firm did Carmen Callil found in 1973, whose name means a domineering woman? A: Virago
Q: Roman Emperor Claudius was said to have been poisoned by a dish of what? A: Mushrooms
Q: What was the very Greek middle name of Greek shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis? A: Socrates
Q: What Russian word meaning 'restructuring' was a political movement in the 1980s? A: Perestroika
Q: What is an early sacrificial move in chess, usually of a pawn, to gain advantage, which has entered language with similar wider meaning? A: Gambit
Q: In 1901 the artists Wassily Kandinsky, Rolf Niczky, Waldemar Hecker, and Wilhelm Hüsgen founded the progressive Phalanx art group in which country? A: Germany
Q: Gambrius, legendary King of Flanders, is the unofficial patron and mythical inventor of which drink? A: Beer
Q: Which strait, named after a famous Portuguese-Spanish explorer, separates Chile and Tierra del Fuego? A: Strait of Magellan
Q: 2 inches x 1.5 inches (52x37mm) are the dimensions of which paper size? A: A9
Q: Cinnabar, having the symbol HgS, and being highly toxic, is the common ore of which metal? A: Mercury
Q: Which vegetable, of the species Brassica Oleracea, has the varieties Nevada and Canberra? A: Cauliflower
Q: Southern Distilleries Ltd, the world's most southern distillery, produces Hokonui Moonshine, named after the mountains where the illicit version of the drink first appeared, in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: The game 'Spillikins' is commonly known by which other name? A: Jackstraws
Q: The Narcissus plant is otherwise known by which popular name? A: Daffodil
Q: A 'boxcar' is a term for rolling which number on the dice in a game of craps? A: 12
Q: Ganymede is the largest moon of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: Europe's largest solar power plant is at Sanlucar la Mayor in which country? A: Spain
Q: What UK-based organisation is (at 2011) the world's largest insurance market? A: Lloyds of London
Q: 18 year-old Fiona Butler, in an unpaid photoshoot, featured in Athena's iconic 1970's bare-bottom poster of what sport? A: Tennis
Q: Podagra is the technical term for which medical condition in humans, often associated with heavy drinking? A: Gout
Q: Thomas Seymour married the widow of which monarch in 1547, previously his brother-in-law? A: Henry VIII
Q: A Novocastrian, is a native of which English and Australian cities? A: Newcastle
Q: The Turbine Hall, which hosts artwork of vast scale, is in which London art gallery? A: The Tate Modern
Q: In the Netherlands in 1932 Adriaan Van Well founded which acronymic international grocery chain business, represented by a fir-tree logo? A: SPAR
Q: What type of creature is a Storm-petrel? A: Bird
Q: What is both an ancient twisted metal necklace and a force causing rotation? A: Torque
Q: In the children's stories of Thomas the Tank Engine, what is the name of the Fat Controller? A: Sir Topham Hatt
Q: Ganesh, Murugan and their father Shiva feature in which religion? A: Hindu
Q: Which international statesman was voted 'Left-Hander of the Year' in 2008 by the Left-Handers Club? A: Barack Obama
Q: Dating back to 1801, what is the more common name for a circle graph, said to be the most commonly used graph in business and media? A: Pie Chart
Q: Who wrote the poems If, Gunga Din, Mandalay, and The Female of the Species? A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: Where mega means a million (106) what commonly used prefix means a millionth (10-6)? A: Micro
Q: The Bodleian Library is part of which highly regarded universtity? A: Oxford
Q: The British Assured Food Standards scheme for food and farm quality is represented in its branding and website name by a? A: Red tractor
Q: The so-called 'spade hacker' - a 75 year-old Georgian woman digging for copper scrap - accidentally cut off the internet connection for five hours in April 2011 for the entire 3.2m population of which bordering nation? A: Armenia
Q: Kebero, tabor, bodhran and cajon (pronounced cahon) are types of which musical instruments? A: Drums
Q: Porifera, meaning 'pore bearer' is a marine life form better known by what name, now strongly associated with its traditional human use? A: Sponge
Q: In which country is the Vatnajokull Glacier, covering 8% of its land, and the largest ice cap by volume in Europe? A: Iceland
Q: "Which professional undertaking begins with the words ""I swear by Apollo...""?" A: Hippocratic Oath
Q: When an orchestra tunes up before playing, what instrument conventionally provides the initial 'A' guide note? A: Oboe
Q: The Roscher System and the Henry Classification System are used by the police for what? A: Fingerprinting
Q: Alt, Bock, Dunkel and Helles are German varieties of what? A: Beer
Q: The Marble Mountains (locally, Ngu Hành Son) are five marble/limestone hills, Kim, Thuy, Moc, Hoa and Tho, in which country? A: Vietnam
Q: The communist government of which country was overthrown during the Velvet Revolution in 1989? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: On what form of transport would you find a pelorus, said to be named after Hannibal's pilot, c.200BC? A: Ship
Q: Which famous movie car was made from the chassis of two 1968 Chevrolet Impalas and a Chevy V8 engine? A: Batmobile
Q: What is a traditional fastener which prevents a wheel from coming off its axle, and refers metaphorically to a crucial person or part? A: Linchpin
Q: Native to Mediterranean countries the ground beans and pod of the carob tree/shrub are used as a substitute for what? A: Chocolate
Q: Which river flows over the Victoria Falls? A: Zambezi
Q: How tall is the Burj Khalifa tower in Dubai (at Apr 2011 the tallest building in the world)? A: 828m
Q: Dr Harry Coover and Fred Joyner accidentally discovered what popular and generically named adhesive while working for Eastman Kodak on a gunsight project in the mid-1900s? A: Super Glue
Q: The pungent essential oil eugenol comprises about 70-90% of the oil from which spice? A: Cloves
Q: Infrasound - sound lower than 20Hz (Hertz, or cycles per second) and typically undetectable by human hearing - is more commonly termed what? A: Subsonic
Q: Which Tropic divides Mexico into temperate and tropical zones? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: Which month was named after the Roman god of war? A: March
Q: Paques is the French term for which religious festival? A: Easter
Q: Traditionally, oysters should be eaten when which letter of the alphabet is in the month? A: R
Q: Cryptozoology is the study of which type of creatures? A: Mythical
Q: Which playing card is known as the 'Beer Card? A: Seven of Diamonds
Q: Which vegetable has the Latin name Allium Cepa? A: Onion
Q: Charmeuse, Noil and Shantung are all types of which fabric? A: Silk
Q: The enzyme pepsin is released by cells in which part of the human body? A: Stomach
Q: Deriving from, and in part meaning small, what is the 15th letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Omicron
Q: If something is piscivorous, what does it generally feed on? A: Fish
Q: Previously deemed too dangerous, what Winter Olympics event will be open to women for the first time in the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi? A: Ski jumping
Q: Croquembouche is a dessert tower made of what? A: Profiteroles
Q: Which is the only country in Southeast Asia never to have been colonized by a European power? A: Thailand
Q: Abidjan is the former capital and a major battleground of what civil-war-torn nation in 2011? A: Ivory Coast
Q: In relation to spiritual diety Pachamama, in 2011 Bolivia announced an new unusual Law of what? A: Mother Earth
Q: What UK event did protest group Animal Aid describe in 2011 as 'straightforward animal abuse on a par with Spanish Bullfighting'? A: The Grand National
Q: 2011 is how many years' anniversary of the start of (what is conventionally referred to as) the US Civil War? A: 150
Q: In conventional chessboard layout denotion, where the white castle (rook) starts on square a1, what piece occupies e8? A: Black King
Q: 'Moon starer' is a fitting anagram of what specialised profession? A: Astronomer
Q: Little Willie and Big Willie were nicknames for the first and second models of what British WWI armament? A: Tank
Q: 'Roadhouse' is the ironic US Secret Service codename for what famous standard-setting luxury Art Deco hotel at 301 Park Avenue in Manhattan, New York City? A: Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
Q: What is the international telephone dialling code for France? A: 33
Q: On a conventional piano keyboard, what note is the white key which immediately follows the two black notes together (as distinct from the three black notes together)? A: E
Q: Name the 1959 instrumental piece by The Dave Brubeck Quartet - arguably the first ever mainstream jazz hit record - whose title referred to its unusual 5/4 time-signature? A: Take Five
Q: What African capital city is regarded as the largest French-speaking city after Paris? A: Kinshasa
Q: A muntjac is what type of animal? A: Deer
Q: How many centimetres are in a foot, to two decimal places? A: 30.48
Q: What plant and source of starch, used in cooking and medicine, is named after the Arawak word aru-aru, meaning 'meal of meals', and also by association with its use in treating poisoned arrow wounds? A: Arrowroot
Q: On which British comedian's (technically comedienne's) US TV show did The Simpsons first appear? A: Tracey Ullman
Q: In what century was the Indian mausoleum the Taj Mahal built? A: 17th
Q: Created in 1949 and used by the US Air Force, Sierra Sam was the first what? A: Crash Test Dummy
Q: What is the surname of the famous German brother fairy tale writers, Jacob and Wilhelm? A: Grimm
Q: What is the square root of 441? A: 21
Q: What is the more common name of the oak nut? A: Acorn
Q: What area in square metres is a hectare? A: 10,000
Q: What iconic Wrigley brand, launched in 1893, is considered the first product bought using a barcode scanner? A: Juicy Fruit
Q: Penthesilea, Myrine and Hippolyte were queens of which legendary warrior people? A: Amazons
Q: A solution of magnesium hydroxide in water is better known by what name? A: Milk of Magnesia
Q: In the Bible, which of the apostles refused to believe in the resurrection until he had seen and touched Christ? A: Saint Thomas
Q: Latrodectism is a clinical syndrome caused by the bite of which creature? A: Spider
Q: Emily Watson played which famous cellist in the film 'Hilary and Jackie'? A: Jaqueline du Pre
Q: Conkers are the fruit of which tree? A: Horse chestnut
Q: What corporation (as at 2011) owns and operates the Norton internet security product range? A: Symantec
Q: Beehive, Chonmage and Hoxton Fin are types of what? A: Hairstyles
Q: What is a plane figure with nine straight sides and nine angles? A: Nonagon
Q: The classic 1892 comedy novel written by George and Weedon Grossmith is 'Diary of a 'what'? A: Nobody
Q: How many cubic inches are in a cubic foot? A: 1,728
Q: Israeli Acute Paralysis Virus (IAPV) affects which insect? A: Bee
Q: Black, Green and Oolong are types of what? A: Tea
Q: Winnie Madikizela are the first names of the ex-wife of which iconic leader? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: What is the only country in the world not required to have its name on its postage stamps? A: United Kingdom
Q: What is the chemical formula for laughing gas (nitrous oxide)? A: N2O
Q: In a standard deck of playing cards, which is normally the only king without a moustache? A: King of Hearts
Q: Which chemical element, not found as a free element on Earth, has the atomic number 9 and the symbol F? A: Fluorine
Q: Which motor company won the contract in May 2011 to provide the next generation of New York's yellow taxis? A: Nissan
Q: The Nobel Peace Prize is awarded annually in which European city? A: Oslo
Q: What city has c.520 miles of shoreline? A: New York
Q: What is the (usually somewhat aspirational) meaning of Latin term Ad Astra, often used in slogans and marketing? A: To the Stars
Q: What organization, loosely translated from Arabic to mean 'the Base' or 'maxim' or 'methodology', was founded in 1988 in Peshewar, Pakistan? A: Al-Qaida
Q: The flower-gardened residence Giverny, in Normandy, France, was home to what impressionist painter, noted for his garden pond scenes? A: Claude Monet
Q: "Heinz Baked Beans are branded with the ironically misleading byline of ""(how many) Varieties""?" A: 57
Q: Name the long-standing much-respected British, European and Commonwealth Heavyweight Boxing Champion who died in 2011, age 76? A: Henry Cooper
Q: What is the collective name for a flock of geese in flight, especially in V-formation? A: Skein
Q: How many petals do buttercup and columbine flowers commonly have? A: Five
Q: As at 2011 what car corporation owns the Rolls Royce and Mini marques? A: BMW
Q: The slang term vajazzling refers to what increasingly popular decorative jewelled fashion? A: Vaginal
Q: What large computer software corporation, whose products include Acrobat and Photoshop, is named after a 2,000-year-old word meaning 'mud-brick'? A: Adobe
Q: Which is the only letter in the English alphabet never (as at 2011) to appear in the Periodic Table of Chemical Elements? A: J
Q: What is the gamekeeper's name in D H Lawrence's 1928 novel Lady Chatterley's Lover? A: Mellors
Q: What large media corporation suffered a serious hacking attack on its popular gaming and entertainment websites in May 2011, compromising personal details of over 100 million users? A: Sony
Q: The Imperial War Museum in London was originally based in which building at Sydenham Hill, famously destroyed by fire in 1936? A: The Crystal Palace
Q: The UK Millennium Cohort Study of 10,000 babies born 2000-01 found a clear correlation between positive childhood behaviour/behavior and what? A: Breastfeeding
Q: The Stanley Cup, for which various USA and Canada clubs compete and said to be the oldest sports trophy in N America, is awarded in which sport? A: Ice Hockey
Q: What is the Strait between Sicily and mainland Italy? A: Messina Strait
Q: The Latin phrase 'Ecce Homo' means Behold the what? A: Man
Q: Completed in 1985 what City of London banking centre became the subject of opposing demolition and architectural heritage protection efforts in 2011? A: Broadgate
Q: What political first lady appeared in Woody Allen's 2011 film Midnight in Paris? A: Carla Bruni-Sarkozy
Q: The LEAF Award (as at 2011, fully the Emirates Glass LEAF Award) is a prize awarded for what? A: Architecture
Q: Medicine, crystal and stress are all very different types of what? A: Ball
Q: What is the informal term for a bullet with a hollowed tip so as to increase spread and damage on impact? A: Dumdum
Q: In the Mood and Moonlight Serenade were popular hits during the 2nd World War for which band leader's orchestra? A: Glenn Miller
Q: The fungal infection dermatophytosis is better known by what misleading name? A: Ringworm
Q: Derived from the description of a skinned herb, what old English word means a bald-headed man? A: Pilgarlic
Q: In geology, particles of what range from 0.0625mm to 2mm? A: Sand
Q: What UK city is a person metaphorically 'sent to' when ignored or ostracized by a group? A: Coventry
Q: Madison Avenue is an American term for what industry? A: Advertising
Q: Which compound, from the bark of the Cinchona tree, and used in tonic water, was the first effective drug used to treat malaria? A: Quinine
Q: In the Bible, after killing his brother Abel, Cain fled to the land of where? A: Nod
Q: In which country was Osama bin Laden born? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: Which metallic element is refined from Cassiterite, SnO2? A: Tin
Q: A cachalot - an old French word for tooth - is better known as what creature, the largest living toothed animal? A: Sperm Whale
Q: Created by the Hoover Dam, what is the largest manmade lake/reservoir in the US? A: Lake Mead
Q: In geometry and mathematics, what is an angle of less than 90 degrees? A: Acute
Q: Greek jeweller Sotirio Voulgaris founded which luxury goods brand, noted for its capitalized branding including Latin-style V for a U? A: Bulgari
Q: Where are the Carnac Stones, the largest megalithic site of its kind anywhere, containing over 3,000 huge rocks erected by pre-Celtic people c.4,000-3,300BC? A: Brittany
Q: How many litres (or liters) are in a cubic metre? A: 1,000
Q: Which planet (in terms of its orbit) is between Saturn and Neptune? A: Uranus
Q: Name the founder of psychoanalysis who wrote the The Interpretation of Dreams, and Beyond the Pleasure Principle? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: In 1968 the Treaty of Tlatelolco was drafted by the nations of Latin America and the Caribbean to keep their region of the world free of what? A: Nuclear weapons
Q: The team sport Bandy (or Russian Hockey) is played on what surface? A: Ice
Q: Known also in the US and elswhere as President, what traditionally and descriptively is the most senior position in a company and other hierarchical organizations? A: Chairman
Q: Stephen Covey's first hugely popular guide to business and life is called The Seven 'what' of Highly Successful People? A: Habits
Q: The Han ethnic group of people, the largest in the world, is native to which country? A: China
Q: What is Tesco's US 'neighborhood' grocery chain brand, founded in 2007 with HQ in California? A: Fresh & Easy
Q: Traditionally the largest book publishers trade show in the world, where in Germany is the (city name) Book Fair held each October? A: Frankfurt
Q: In Western Christianity what is the first day of Lent? A: Ash Wednesday
Q: The traditionally shaped sound-holes in instruments such as violins and cellos are referred to by what letter of the alphabet? A: F
Q: What animal normally represents the box of low market share and low market growth in the Boston Matrix (or 'BSG Matrix' or 'Growth-Share Matrix') marketing model? A: Dog
Q: What is the Japanese maker of soy sauce whose name means loosely 'ten thousand tortoise shells'? A: Kikkoman
Q: To what note is the fourth string (fourth highest in pitch) on a standard six-string guitar normally tuned? A: D
Q: "What famous 1945 book includes the first of seven commandments, ""Whatever goes upon two legs is an enemy.""?" A: Animal Farm
Q: What chemical element has the symbol S? A: Sulphur
Q: Yandex, in 2011 probably the largest internet company flotation after Google in 2004, was founded and dominates web searching in which country? A: Russia
Q: The fourth film in what movie series is subtitled 'On Stranger Tides'? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: What country announced a sales ban on the yeast extract Marmite in 2011 due to its law forbidding vitamin additives? A: Denmark
Q: As at 2010, how many bicycles are in the world, compared to motor cars? A: Double
Q: Name the UK state owned bookmaker, set up by Winston Churchill when Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1928? A: The Tote
Q: The elusive and increasingly rare omnivorous bird, tetrax tetrax, nicknamed in French 'the farting chicken', is more commonly called the Little what? A: Bustard
Q: Christine Lagarde emerged as a candidate to succeed 'DSK' as head of what organization following his 2011 arrest on rape charges? A: IMF
Q: What, mainly, is the 'lava' in a conventional lava lamp? A: Wax
Q: The quirky activity in the news in Australia due to its first fatality, previously called 'the lying down game', became an internet photo craze now known by what less obvious name? A: Planking
Q: A threat to air travel in 2011, Grimsvotn is a? A: Icelandic volcano
Q: Tamara Mellon co-founded (with the person after whom the company is named) what fashion label, sold for £500m in 2011? A: Jimmy Choo
Q: Manal al-Sherif was arrested in Saudi Arabia in 2011 for posting a protest video of herself doing what, which is effectively banned for women? A: Driving
Q: What 2008 internet start-up company did Twitter buy in 2011 that enables customized use of its microblogging service? A: Tweetdeck
Q: What colour/color is used to describe a seared steak (of beef) - cooked very quickly and very rare, just one stage from being raw? A: Blue
Q: Originating in French, from the French word for bicycle and the Greek word for course, what is a track cycling arena called? A: Velodrome
Q: In the context of financial services mis-selling, what product is abbreviated to PPI? A: Payment Protection Insurance
Q: "What world renowned academy, originated in 1741, relocated to Camberley, Surrey in 1947, has the motto, ""Serve to Lead""?" A: Sandhurst
Q: When acid rain is caused by power generation plants, normally what acid does it contain? A: Nitric acid
Q: Female vocalist Omara Portuondo became famous in what internationally popular Cuban group of musicians? A: Buena Vista Social Club
Q: Thingvalla Lake is in which country? A: Iceland
Q: In 2006, Romania banned sturgeon fishing in which river? A: Danube
Q: As at 2011 who is the world's youngest self-made billionaire? A: Mark Zuckerberg
Q: In what Shakespeare play does the character Marcellus say, 'Something is rotten in the state of Denmark' ? A: Hamlet
Q: Campione d'Italia, is an Italian enclave in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: What large dangerous short-snouted variety of creature, from India, is a mugger? A: Crocodile
Q: Name the South African record-breaking Paralympic sprinter known as the 'Blade Runner' (referring to his carbon-fibre artificial limbs)? A: Oscar Pistorius
Q: On which part of the body would Russian valenki normally be worn? A: Feet
Q: Norwegian politican, Trygve Lie, was the first Secretary General of which organisation? A: The United Nations
Q: What popular rosy-cheeked animal character, launched on UK TV in 2004, was licensed to US Fisher Price Toys in 2011? A: Peppa Pig
Q: The Royal House of Chakri has (at 2011) ruled which country since 1782? A: Thailand
Q: Sir Reginald Dorman Smith, former British Minister of Agriculture, instigated which campaign during World War II to encourage people to convert land for growing more fruit and vegetables? A: Dig for Victory
Q: Once used as a currency in several parts of the world, what are cowries? A: Sea shells
Q: Name the Ebay-owned online payment processing corporation which sued Google in 2011 for poaching its staff? A: Paypal
Q: 'The Persistence of Memory', featuring images of a melting pocket-watch, is a work by which artist? A: Salvador Dali
Q: Name the head of FIFA re-elected in 2011 amid crisis and calls for his resignation? A: Sepp Blatter
Q: Republic of the Union of Myanmar is better known as what country? A: Burma
Q: Name the American 'godfather of rap' who died in May 2011, noted especially for his 1970 poem-song 'The Revolution Will Not Be Televised',? A: Gil Scott-Heron
Q: Which US state is said to be named in honour/honor of British monarch Queen Elizabeth I? A: Virginia
Q: Castries is the capital of which Caribbean island? A: St Lucia
Q: What salad vegetable was initially at the centre of international debate, notably between Spain and Germany, after a fatal E.coli outbreak in May 2011 in the latter nation? A: Cucumber
Q: How many serifs are in the HONDA Motor Company logo? A: 12
Q: In the TV series Thunderbirds, what colour/colour are Brains' spectacle rims? A: Blue
Q: What did Frenchman Dr Pierre Dukan devise which bears his name, and after achieving great popularity in France, began to spread internationally in the early 2000s? A: Dukan Diet
Q: What motor company's badge contains a red cross and a green snake? A: Alfa Romeo
Q: "What popular sci-fi creations were described by Dr Who's executive producer in 2011 as ""...the most reliably defeatable enemies in the universe..."" ?" A: The Daleks
Q: In what video game brand does the Lara Croft character most famously feature? A: Tomb Raider
Q: Which UK city hosts the Summer Sundae music festival? A: Leicester
Q: Violeta Chamorro, Michelle Bachelet, Laura Chinchilla, and Dilma Rousseff share what achievement? Olympic record-holders; National leadership; Best-selling authors; Film noir stardom; or Diana Ross's Supremes? A: National leadership
Q: What convicted fraudster's underpants were auctioned in 2011 for $200, with other belongings, to compensate victims of his $65m Ponzi scheme swindle? A: Bernard Madoff
Q: A blue circle with a white centre was introduced in 2006 as the international symbol for what human metabolic disease? A: Diabetes
Q: What woman's name was given to the horrendously abusive laundry asylums for 'fallen women' run by the Catholic Church, starting in 18th century Ireland, spreading to other countries and persisting well into the 1900s? A: Magdalene
Q: On a standard piano what normally is the lowest note? A: A
Q: Who is Britain's longest serving consort? A: Prince Philip
Q: What multinational high street vendor's logo was developed from an old Norse woodcut of a twin-tailed siren or mermaid with flowing hair and crown? A: Starbucks
Q: What is Julia Donaldson's hugely successful character and book, based on a Chinese folk tale of a fox that borrows the terror of a tiger? A: The Gruffalo
Q: What modern system of a very old messaging method entails red and yellow ('Oscar') at sea, and white and blue ('Papa') on land? A: Flag semaphore
Q: What childplay and teaching-aid modelling product did William Harbutt devise and produce in 1900, in an old flour mill near Bath, UK? A: Plasticine
Q: What controlled recreational drug has the chemical formula C20H26N2O? A: LSD
Q: Light travels at its fastest in what medium? A: Vacuum
Q: What is the traditional primary ingredient of coleslaw (also slaw in the US)? A: Cabbage
Q: In maths (also meaning womb, and a popular movie series) what is a rectangular series of quantities in rows and columns? A: Matrix
Q: What mainly microscopic life-form takes its name from the Greek word plagktos, meaning wandering? A: Plankton
Q: The nautical term fo'c'sle (pronounced foxel) is a common shortening of what word referring to the forward part of a ship where sailors live? A: Forecastle
Q: What small Scottish border town is famously associated with marriages of English runaway couples? A: Gretna Green
Q: Teutonic/Teutons refers mostly and typically to what ancient race of people? A: Germanic
Q: From the Greek words for empty tomb, what sort of monument exists in many cities to commemorate lives lost, especially in the 1st and 2nd World Wars? A: Cenotaph
Q: Hemostasis/haemostasis is what in relation to bloodflow? A: Stoppage
Q: What is the fastest animal alive? A: Peregrine falcon
Q: The word harem, referring to a women's part of a dwelling, and especially to its female occupants, originated in which ethnic people? A: Muslim
Q: In pathology what is the common term for a displacement and protrusion of part of an organ through its cavity wall? A: Hernia
Q: A limited company (e.g., in the UK 'Ltd', US 'LLC', Germany 'GmbH') has limited what? A: Liabilities
Q: Sinhalese (or Singhalese) is the language and people originating in north India now largely populating which country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Abbrieviated to PIE, what is the ancient Eurasian reconstructed language and origin of wide-ranging modern languages including English, Spanish, Russian, Greek, Urdu and Farsi? A: Proto-Indo-European
Q: For what ethnic group are Misnah and Gemara the two main parts of Talmud law? A: Jews
Q: The organic chemical compound C12H22O11 is better known as what additive? A: Sugar
Q: Name the Trinidad and Tobago cabinet minister who resigned as vice president of FIFA in 2011 amid ongoing ethics investigations? A: Jack Warner
Q: Dyscalculia is less technically known as (what?)-blindness? A: Number
Q: How many dots make up the BlackBerry symbol logo? A: Seven
Q: In geology, igneous refers to rock formed by what effect? A: Volcanic
Q: What is the cube root of 1728? A: 12
Q: Refraction is the change of direction of a wave such as light due to change of its what when passing from one medium to another? A: Speed
Q: The becquerel (Bq) is a unit of measurement of what? A: Radioactivity
Q: What is the chess playing robot called in TV's Thunderbirds? A: Braman
Q: It takes roughly how long for the Earth's rotating axis to complete a full circle (precession)? A: 26,000 years
Q: The crossed-ropes acting as ladders to masts on old sailing ships are called? A: Ratlines
Q: In Greek mythology, name the Gorgon monster with snakes for hair, slain by Perseus? A: Medusa
Q: A dosimeter measures human absorption of what over a time period? A: Ionizing radiation
Q: What is a big acoustic guitar, a type of old battleship, and a thick coat cloth, which means 'fear nothing'? A: Dreadnought
Q: What technical term, also slang for street, refers to the forces resisting the forward movement of an aircraft? A: Drag
Q: Bir, iki, uc, dort, bes (loosely westernised) are 1-5 in what language? A: Turkish
Q: What is the mythical conjuring trick for which Lord Northbrook failed to find claim or demonstration on offering a £10,000 prize in 1875? A: Indian rope trick
Q: South Korean Ban Ki-moon was reappointed unopposed in June 2011 as head (secretary-general) of what organization? A: UN
Q: The word 'Torchwood' is what in relation to 'Doctor Who'? A: Anagram
Q: How many sides (different straight outer edges, excluding shadow) does each '2' have in the London 2012 Olympics logo? A: Eight
Q: The Grimaldi family has ruled which principality since 1297? A: Monaco
Q: 'Core' is a brand of which computer technology company? A: Intel Corporation
Q: Which pottery company originally developed the designs Kutani Crane, Wild Strawberry and Jasperware? A: Wedgwood
Q: What is the common name of aluminium/aluminum oxide crystals used in grinding? A: Corundum
Q: Lachryma Christi, an old Italian sweet red wine translates to mean 'whose what'? A: Christ's Tear
Q: Sibilance is what sort of sound? A: Hissing
Q: What voltage is the common zinc-carbon or alkaline AAA battery (also coded LR03, E92, AM4 among others)? A: 1.5v
Q: A ploughman's lunch traditionally features what main foodstuff with bread? A: Cheese
Q: Scuppernong, named after a N Carolina USA river, is a variety of what? A: Grape
Q: What legal term equates to 'being caught red-handed' and translates as 'in blazing crime'? A: In flagrante delicto
Q: Erratum is a list of what at the end of a publication? A: Errors
Q: In cooking what is/are dhal? A: Split pulses
Q: Laudanum is an old medicine made from which drug? A: Opium
Q: Toledo is a high quality what made in the Spanish town of that name? A: Sword
Q: A turbine is essentially a what, driven by water or gas, etc? A: Wheel
Q: What is the ancient process by which materials such as metal or glass are heated and then cooled slowly to ease forces produced by shaping? A: Annealing
Q: An integer is what sort of number? A: Whole
Q: What widely used solvent and compound with the symbol (CH3)2CO smells of pear-drops and is in nail polish remover? A: Acetone
Q: According to a global study of wind power in 2005 what extent of the world's total energy usage could be satisfied if all viable wind power locations were exploited? A: Five times
Q: A photovoltaic module is more commonly known as what? A: Solar panel
Q: Sulphur/sulfur dioxide and (various) nitrogen oxides are the main contributory factors in what unhelpful environmental effect? A: Acid rain
Q: What structural modification of oxygen is an air pollutant in the lower atmosphere but beneficial in the upper atmosphere? A: Ozone
Q: In excess of how many gallons of water are lost each day in the USA to leaks, equating to 14% of all 'withdrawals'? A: Six billion
Q: What colourless/colorless, odourless/odorless, poisonous polluting gas is chiefly emitted by small engines typically used in lawn-mowers and chainsaws, etc? A: Carbon monoxide
Q: What highly toxic element was traditionally used in thermometers, posing a substantial safety and disposal risk? A: Mercury
Q: The 1987 Montreal Protocol concerns specifically, and includes in its full title, substances that deplete what? A: The Ozone Layer
Q: Carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and sulphur/sulfur hexafluoride are widely referred to by what collective metaphorical term? A: Greenhouse Gases
Q: From the Greek root words for 'house' and 'study of' what term refers to the scientific study of the relationship between living things, and their natural environment? A: Ecology
Q: An 'R number' identifies what sort of substance having potentially significant impact on global warming when used in heating/cooling applications? A: Refrigerant
Q: The DuPont trade name Freon has become an alternative name for which abbreviated compound name strongly associated with global warming? A: CFC
Q: The 'R-value' used in the building and construction industry is a measure of what quality of a materials? A: Thermal resistance
Q: Better to light a candle than curse the darkness. A: Amnesty International
Q: Where do you want to go today? A: Microsoft
Q: Omnia Omnibus Ubique. (All Things, For All People, Everywhere.) A: Harrods
Q: Citius, Altius, Fortius. (Faster, Higher, Stronger.) A: Olympic Games
Q: Nation Shall Speak Peace Unto Nation. A: BBC
Q: Nullius in verba. (On the word of no one.) A: The Royal Society
Q: Ursa Major and Ursa Minor are constellations known respectively more commonly as Great and Little what? A: Bear
Q: What common name is given to medial tibial stress syndrome (MTSS)? A: Shin Splints
Q: What ancient name applies to the 'days' of hot summer, derived from belief that the star Sirius caused them? A: Dog Days
Q: Of these sedimentary rocks, which one is not organic, being instead 'clastic'? A: Shale
Q: "On the Beaufort Scale of wind force what wind name is given to number 8, which ""...Breaks twigs off trees and impedes progress...""?" A: Gale
Q: What notable leader was born in Ranshofen, near Braunau, Austria, in 1889? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Somalia is in the region known as the what of Africa? A: Horn
Q: A piece of what monument forms part of Ronald Reagan's statue in London's Grosvenor Square? A: Berlin Wall
Q: Derived from French pantomime, what is a clown with a white face, white garments, and pointed hat? A: Pierrot
Q: Teams competing in what famous annual July event include THC, Movistar, Leopard, BMC and Quick-Step? A: Tour de France
Q: Seismic refers to what natural effect? A: Earthquake
Q: What is the organic compound acid, chemical formula CH3COOH, and main component of vinegar? A: Acetic acid
Q: What color/colour is a polar bear's skin? A: Black
Q: Which former US presidential First Lady founded a famous drug rehabilitation clinic? A: Betty Ford
Q: The failed Mau Mau uprising of the 1950s preceded eventual independence from British colonial rule of what nation in 1963? A: Kenya
Q: Formed after national revolution in 1917 the NKVD was the public and also ruthless secret police of which country until 1946? A: Russia
Q: Gramophone records are made of, and sometimes called, what popular name for the polymer material in question? A: Vinyl
Q: What originally Venetian word refers to a meeting of boats or yacht races? A: Regatta
Q: Regicide refers to killing a? A: King
Q: What is the compound, NH4NO3, commonly used in fertilizers and improvised bombs? A: Ammonium nitrate
Q: What French IT company is engaged (as at 2011) by the UK government in the controversial assessment of work capability of incapacity benefit claimants? A: Atos
Q: What metallic element element is named after an asteroid discovered in 1802, itself named after (an alternate name of) the Greek goddess Athene? A: Palladium
Q: A cruciferous plant has how many petals? A: Four
Q: The stone, flint, is a form of what near-to-pure compound, formula SiO2? A: Silica
Q: Name the German tribe which settled in Britain during the 5-6th centuries, whose name persists in a region of Denmark? A: Jutes
Q: What Buddhist term and title of reverence (typically for a spiritual leader) derives from the Sanskrit words for 'great soul'? A: Mahatma
Q: The genocide of Tutsi people by Hutu militia in 1994 was in which country? A: Rwanda
Q: What Japanese word meaning 'person born before another' refers to a teacher or master of a subject, for example martial arts? A: Sensei
Q: What on a bird has a calamus, rachis and barbs? A: Feather
Q: The name of what baby creature is given to a stilleto heel design of two inches or less? A: Kitten
Q: University of Portsmouth (UK) psychologists researching the quality of juries determined what to be the optimum number of people for effective debate? A: Four
Q: Explorer, Chrome, Safari and Firefox are among the most globally popular what (in early 2000s)? A: Internet browsers
Q: Who led the Muslim army to victory against the Meccans in the Battle of Badr, 624AD? A: Muhammad
Q: Arthroscopy refers to surgery performed on what parts of the human body? A: Joints
Q: Chutzpah is Yiddish slang for? A: Audacity
Q: What Italian term, adopted into English, refers to a mixed language enabling communication between different national groups? A: Lingua Franca
Q: Talaq is a form of what under Islamic (sharia) law? A: Divorce
Q: Founded in 1853 by London tailor John Emary, what famous raincoat/trenchcoat brand was popularised in the mid-1900s by film stars such as Humphrey Bogart and Sophia Loren? A: Aquascutum
Q: What is the Latin term for a reigning queen, often shown after first name as a formal title? A: Regina
Q: What corporation acquired the major UK-based online retailer, The Book Depository, in 2011? A: Amazon
Q: What is the popular technical term for a speech sound or letter 'articulated with complete or partial closure of the vocal tract'? A: Consonant
Q: Dame Evelyn Glennie, who is profoundly deaf, is a world-renowned what? A: Percussionist
Q: On a conventionally tuned guitar, what chord is made by fretting just the fifth (A) string on its 2nd fret? A: Em7
Q: What country controversially won the bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup? A: Qatar
Q: The Al Jazeera broadcasting organization is owned by and headquartered in what country? A: Qatar
Q: To the nearest 1000 metres, how deep is the ocean floor at its deepest? A: 11,000m
Q: The mineral, diamond, is naturally what crystal shape? A: Cubic
Q: From Greek, meaning generation and knowledge, what word commonly refers to the study of family history? A: Genealogy
Q: What is two-thirds of three-quarters? A: A half
Q: The New Caledonia archipelago in the south Pacific is a 'special collectivity' territory of which nation? A: France
Q: Flipkart was founded and became a major online retailer, notably of books, in which country? A: India
Q: What is the fruit of the tree technically known as Phoenix Dactylifera? A: Dates
Q: The 18th Duchess of the House of Alba, Cayetana Fitz-James Stuart, holder of arguably more nobility titles than anyone globally, is what nationality? A: Spanish
Q: What Greek word gave us a common suffix referring to disease or illness, and a quality in something which prompts pity or sadness? A: Pathos
Q: Angel, Itatinga, Cuquenan, Ormeli, and Tysse are all what? A: Waterfalls
Q: The FischerSaller scale, used in anthropology and medicine, determines the colour/color shades of what? A: Hair
Q: Under the ABO blood group system, what blood type can receive blood transfusions from all other groups? A: AB
Q: Unlike base metals and silver, gold does not dissolve in what acid, enabling testing of the metal's presence, incidentally originating the expression 'acid test'? A: Nitric acid
Q: What is the medical word, from Greek meaning 'nasal mucus', for inflammation of the mucous membranes lining the nasal cavity, typically a symptom of a head cold or hay fever? A: Coryza
Q: What German pharmaceuticals corporation developed the first Aspirin medication in 1897, and retains the trademark in much of the world today? A: Bayer
Q: The MartinSchultz scale is commonly used in physical anthropology to determine the colour/color of what in humans? A: Eyes
Q: How many new states were created when the USSR collapsed in 1991? A: Fifteen
Q: The UK concise 'daily briefing' newspaper produced by the Independent is called by what single lower-case letter? A: i
Q: Name the former News of the World royal correspondent whose 2007 letter, published in 2011, (allegedly) seriously implicated NOTW leadership in the phone hacking scandal and cover-up? A: Clive Goodman
Q: The staging of what enormous annual Afro-Caribbean cultural gathering was put in doubt following the London riots of August 2011? A: Notting Hill Carnival
Q: The nautical expression referring to capsizing is 'turning (what creature)'? A: Turtle
Q: The port city of Latakia was besieged during 2011 by its own government forces, of what nation? A: Syria
Q: Under the ABO blood group system, what blood type can donate for blood transfusions safely to all other groups? A: O
Q: What is two-thirds divided by one-third? A: 2
Q: What Warner Brothers Mexican mouse cartoon character became a term for someone working or moving unusually quickly? A: Speedy Gonzalez
Q: Ashkenazi, Sephardi and Mizrahi are sub-groups of what ethnoreligious people? A: Jews
Q: What 6-hours-per-day activity did researchers in Australia's Queensland University announce (in 2011) reduces life expectancy by five years? A: Watching TV
Q: What airline postponed adverts claiming to '...go the extra mile to make you feel special...' after a photo of (allegedly) a pilot and crew member having sex in an aircraft cockpit became public in Aug 2011? A: Cathay Pacific
Q: What is the English translation of the ironically-named Ratón, a fearsome bull who killed three men in Spanish festivals? A: Mouse
Q: At $12.5bn, what phone corporation became Google's biggest acquisition in Aug 2011? A: Motorola
Q: What weed is named from the French 'lion's tooth'? A: Dandelion
Q: Slate is an example of what sort of rock, whose name loosely means 'change in form'? A: Metamorphic
Q: From Latin meaning border, or edge, what traditional term refers to the brain structures including the hippocampus and amygdala, which support functions of emotion, behaviour, long term memory, and smell? A: Limbic system
Q: What is the fuller name of the road surfacing material, tarmac? A: Tarmacadam
Q: What style of cooking is named after a province of south-western China, and is noted for its spicy taste, especially from garlic, chili peppers, peanuts, sesame, and ginger? A: Szechuan
Q: John Stacey Adams' 1963 motivational concept, which suggests people's motivation (and attitude) is strongly influenced by assessing effort and reward in a comparative outward sense, is called Adam's (what) Theory? A: Equity
Q: What species of shark featured as the killer in the book/film Jaws? A: Great White
Q: Alfred Pennyworth was whose butler? A: Batman
Q: On what island did tycoon Richard Branson's holiday retreat burn down in August 2011? A: Necker Island
Q: In the mid 1700s Swede Carl Linnaeus devised the modern day taxonomy (category structure) for, and was first to catalogue what? A: Life on Earth
Q: What geological term refers to granular material sized between sand and clay, derived from soil or rock? A: Silt
Q: The opposite to nadir, what word refers to directly overhead, or more generally the highest point? A: Zenith
Q: By about 2010 what more centrally meaningful word (and technology) had replaced 'router' for the internet connection hardware unit typically installed in homes and small businesses? A: Hub
Q: What item of clothing, known as a 'topi', was popularised by Indian leaders Mahatma Gandhi, Jaraharlal Nehru, and later by anti-corruption campaigner Anna Hazare? A: Cap
Q: What six-letter two-word French expression was adopted into English in the mid 1700s referring to a witty remark? A: Bon mot
Q: What is the offspring of a male horse and a female donkey? A: Hinny
Q: Snow, the world's biggest selling beer (at 2011), is based in and dominates the market of which nation? A: China
Q: The 'Travel Bookshop' bookstore in North London served as a location for what successful 1999 film? A: Notting Hill
Q: Jerry and Mike are the first names of what famous pairing of 1950s hit songwriters? A: Leiber and Stoller
Q: What is seven-eighths of sixteen? A: Fourteen
Q: On a standard English 'qwerty' keyboard, which key is between Z and C? A: X
Q: Most commonly what note is the highest pitch open (unfretted) string on a standard/soprano ukulele? A: A
Q: A pneumatic motor converts potential energy in the form of what into mechanical work? A: Compressed air
Q: What marketing term, a portmanteau word, refers to a news or information article which also carries publicity or promotion for the organization which provided it? A: Advertorial
Q: The formula 4/3pr3 (four-thirds x pi x radius cubed) is used to calculate the volume of a what? A: Sphere
Q: Aside from an extra 385 yards, how many miles is a marathon race? A: 26
Q: If 27 solid cubes are formed into one big 3x3x3 cube how many individual cubes, at most, are visible from any single angle? A: Nineteen
Q: 'Via Dolorosa' is the (how many) Stations of the Cross, the Christian ritual tracing the key stages of the death of Jesus, beginning with his condemnation and ending with his being laid in the tomb? A: Fourteen
Q: How many dots are on a (standard 1-6) die? A: Twenty-one
Q: The Russian 'Crimea Highway' trunk road from Moscow to the Crimea in Ukraine is the M (what)? A: 2
Q: What number, between two hyphens, is used by journalists, etc., to mark the end of a newspaper or broadcast story? A: 30
Q: How many unique dominoes are in a standard 'double six' set? A: Twenty-eight
Q: What number turned on its side (rotated 90 degrees) is the symbol for infinity? A: 8
Q: The Marvel Comics superhero team led by Mr Fantastic was the Fanstastic (what)? A: Four
Q: What is the larger number of the binary system? A: 1
Q: Japanese haiku poems loosely comprise how many syllables? A: Seventeen
Q: The Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn are respectively (what number)-and-half degrees north and south of the Equator? A: 23
Q: Greek deka, and Latin decem, are what number? A: Ten
Q: Conventionally how many books are in the Bible's New Testament? A: Twenty-seven
Q: How many legs (or arms) are most usually on a starfish? A: Five
Q: A lunar month is an average (how many) days plus 12 hours, 44 minutes and 3 seconds? A: 29
Q: 'Roaring' refers to what pluralised number in describing a 1900s decade of western world prosperity? A: Twenty
Q: Traditionally what number of years anniversary is symbolized by silver? A: 25
Q: What number is the French coded slang 'vingt-deux!', which warns that police are coming? A: 22
Q: What is the only number that equals twice the sum of its digits (digit means numerical symbol)? A: 18
Q: What is the international SPI resin/polymer identification coding system number (typically shown within a recycling triangle symbol) for polystyrene? A: 6
Q: Traditionally the diameter of the 45rpm gramophone record is (how many) inches? A: 7
Q: Pure gold is (how many)-carat? A: 24
Q: The expression 'On cloud (what)' refers to being blissfully happy? A: Nine
Q: Each player begins with (how many) pieces in a game of chess? A: Sixteen
Q: What is the state capital and largest city of Victoria, Australia? A: Melbourne
Q: What is the traditional name for a women's shoe held in place by a strap behind the ankle above the heel? A: Slingback
Q: 'Light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation' is better known by what modern word? A: Laser
Q: What is five-twelfths of seventy-two? A: Thirty
Q: In 2011 the US National Research Council suggested a clean-up of what exponentially increasing debris problem, using magnets, nets, and giant umbrellas? A: Junk in space
Q: In Judaism, loosely and originally what is a mitzvah? A: Commandment
Q: What mythical paradise and expression was conceived in James Hilton's 1933 novel Lost Horizon? A: Shangri-La
Q: How many degrees are in a right-angle? A: Ninety
Q: What number is Jamie Oliver's charity restaurant concept? A: Fifteen
Q: The international corporate brands Slacker, Rdio and Spotify deliver primarily what services/product? A: Music
Q: The remains of what late-1800s Australian folk hero were identified by DNA in 2011? A: Ned Kelly
Q: What common internet term is a loose portmanteau of two words broadly meaning internet and diary? A: Blog
Q: Yvonne, a runaway cow, evaded capture for three months during 2011 in which country? A: Germany
Q: What Brazilian originating dance and music in Portuguese means loosely 'new trend'? A: Bossa Nova
Q: Stately home Cliveden, now a hotel, was a pool party venue for characters involved in what famous political scandal, named after the Secretary of State for War at its centre? A: Profumo
Q: In 2011 street thieves were filmed in Chinese cities using what innovative pickpocketing tools? A: Chopsticks
Q: What large corporation's annual conference is called 'f8'? A: Facebook
Q: What sort of bird is a coot? A: Aquatic
Q: The modern internet grew from a non-public US Defense system called? A: Arpanet
Q: What widely referenced cosmetic surgery method contains the Greek word for fat? A: Liposuction
Q: The English word Parliament derives from what foreign word-meaning? A: Speak
Q: As at 2011 how many countries of the world criminalize homosexuality? A: 82
Q: (Supplementary question) As at 2011 how many countries which criminalize homosexuality are in the British Commonwealth? A: 40
Q: (Supplementary question) In what year did the UK decriminalize homosexuality? A: 1967
Q: What in Spanish what does the song-title, 'Que Sera, Sera,' mean (loosely, not grammatically correctly)? A: Whatever Will Be, Will Be
Q: Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, and General Dynamics are notable corporations in what sector? A: Armaments
Q: What is the currency of Brazil? A: Real
Q: The word apogee refers to what sort of point? A: Highest
Q: What country has Baffin Bay to its west coast and Denmark Strait to its south-east? A: Greenland
Q: What recent wine-making country produces varieties from its Maharashtra region? A: India
Q: Australian foreign minister Kevin Rudd complained that what homeland foodstuff was confiscated from his luggage on entering the USA in 2011? A: Vegemite
Q: A backless usually female shoe or slipper is commonly called by what animal name? A: Mule
Q: When bankers and brokers talk of M&A, what normally do they mean? A: Mergers and Acquisitions
Q: What pressure group, led by Kumi Naidoo, with three million members, celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2011? A: Greenpeace
Q: Greek god Dionysus is also known by what mythical Roman godly name, associated with revelry? A: Bacchus
Q: In 2011 Australia launched passports offering a third-gender option for intersex people (whose anatomy fits neither male/female convention) indicated by what letter symbol? A: X
Q: Kevlar, the high-strength fibre material, used in armour and sports equipment, is a product/brand of which international chemicals corporation? A: DuPont
Q: What compound, KClO3, commonly features in the heads of safety matches? A: Potassium Chlorate
Q: A significant German reaction to the 2011 Fukushima crisis was to phase out what by 2022? A: Nuclear power
Q: In general a horse is distinguished from a pony at/over approximately what height, in hands, to the withers? A: Fourteen
Q: What self-proclaimed birthplace of surfing announced in 2011 that the activity would become (in 2013) an official college sport? A: Hawaii
Q: The world wide web domain .tv belongs to which Pacific island nation? A: Tuvalu
Q: According to popular medical opinion (at 2011) how much sleep on average is best per night for optimum adult health? A: 6-8 hours
Q: What family-founded/named corporation owns the brands Snickers, Uncle Ben's and Dolmio (at 2011)? A: Mars
Q: What notorious convicted tax-evader is considered the instigator of milk date stamps in Chicago? A: Al Capone
Q: The venue for the 2012 Olympic archery events is considered the home of what sport? A: Cricket
Q: What stone, still quarried in the Dorset (England) tied island which also bears its name, was used in the construction of St Paul's Cathedral and Buckingham Palace, and widely elsewhere too? A: Portland stone
Q: If You Meet the Buddha on the Road, Kill Him! ? A: Sheldon B Kopp
Q: La Sombra del Viento (The Shadow of the Wind)? A: Carlos Ruiz Zafón
Q: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe? A: C S Lewis
Q: The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? A: Douglas Adams
Q: The Catcher in the Rye? A: J D Salinger
Q: Who Moved My Cheese? ? A: Spencer Johnson
Q: Le Petit Prince (The Little Prince)? A: Antoine de Saint-Exupéry
Q: And Then There Were None? A: Agatha Christie
Q: The Wind in the Willows? A: Kenneth Grahame
Q: The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care? A: Dr Benjamin Spock
Q: What name was given to a legendary substance believed to turn base metals (notably lead) into gold or silver? A: The philosopher's stone
Q: The sweet variety of the plant genus Musa is more commonly known as what? A: Banana
Q: Technically the Earth's moon is a? A: Satellite
Q: Racip Erdogan is a leader (at 2011) of what nation? A: Turkey
Q: Polly Toynbee is a British writer and journalist mainly on? A: Politics
Q: What historic capital city is situated where the White Nile and Blue Nile join to form the southern start of the Nile? A: Khartoum
Q: What London landmark became the UK focus of global protests in October 2011 against corporate greed? A: St Paul's Cathedral
Q: What UK newspaper's grossly wrong reporting of the 1989 Hillsborough soccer stadium disaster still causes it to be boycotted in Liverpool over 20 years later? A: The Sun
Q: The New Zealand All Blacks rugby union team badge emblem is a silver? A: Fern
Q: In physics, mass multiplied by velocity equals what, represented by the symbol P? A: Momentum
Q: The Latin pectus refers to what part of the human body? A: Chest
Q: What was the population of the world at 31 Oct 2011 according to the United Nations? A: 7 billion
Q: Traditional UK government terminology for the persuasion of ministers to vote according to party policy is called? A: Whip
Q: What French term, meaning 'high dressmaking', refers internationally to expensive designer clothing, typically of leading fashion houses? A: Haute Couture
Q: What national population is projected (as at 2011) to overtake China in 2020 as the largest in the world? A: India
Q: Cristina Kirchner was re-elected president of which country in October 2011? A: Argentina
Q: Horology is the study of the measurement of what? A: Time
Q: Kaun Banega Crorepati is loose Hindi translation and an Indian version of what popular TV gameshow? A: Who Wants to Be A Millionaire?
Q: What country features centrally and ironically in a map of Europe on the reverse face of Euro coins? A: UK
Q: Patek Philippe, Vacheron Constantin, and Audemars Piguet are all notable what? A: Watchmakers
Q: Lumia is a product brand of which phone company? A: Nokia
Q: What iconic Moscow theatre reopened in 2011 after major refurbishment and earlier decades of neglect? A: Bolshoi
Q: From Greek for gadfly, what is the sex hormonal substance which maintains/develops human female body characteristics? A: Oestrogen
Q: How many grooves are on one side of a standard 33RPM vinyl LP record? A: One
Q: Name the Israeli corporal released in October 2011 by Palestinian Hamas militants, held hostage since June 2006? A: Gilad Shalit
Q: Name the English 1960s playwright (of Loot and Entertaining Mister Sloane), imprisoned with (and later murdered by) boyfriend Kenneth Halliwell for defacing library books in 1962? A: Joe Orton
Q: Yulia Tymoshenko, controversially jailed for seven years in 2011 for exceeding her authority in signing a Russian gas deal, was prime minister of which country? A: Ukraine
Q: Actress Marzieh Vafamehr was sentenced to 90 lashes and a year in prison after appearing in an Australian film critical of what country, her homeland? A: Iran
Q: The UK's most senior civil servant has traditionally held what post? A: Cabinet Secretary
Q: The Omega Speedmaster is claimed (at 2011) to be the only watch worn on the? A: Moon
Q: Name the Glasgow-born guitar virtuoso and 1960s founder of the band Pentangle who died age 67 in 2011? A: Bert Jansch
Q: What is common name of the clear flammable early anaesthetic liquid with the formula C2H5OC2H5 (or CH3-CH2-O-CH2-CH3)? A: Ether
Q: F = ma is a common simplification of what? A: Newtons second law of motion
Q: The famous geological/geographical feature Chesil Beach in Dorset, England, is a natural coastal barrier made of? A: Pebbles
Q: At the outset of a major demonstration against capitalist greed and recklessness in London in October 2011, what group did the Rev Giles Fraser ask to leave the steps of St Paul's Cathedral? A: Police
Q: Which large automotive and musical corporation has a logo comprising three crossed tuning forks? A: Yamaha
Q: Upon the change to British regal succession law removing gender inequality, the Princess Royal (Anne) advances how many positions closer to the Crown? A: Six
Q: What common scientific suffix (referring to having a productive quality) is from the French/Greek word loosely meaning 'born of a specific kind'? A: Gen
Q: What Canadian technology service suffered a major internet outage in October 2011, angering millions of its customers unable to use its email and popular 'messenger' services, and prompting calls for its owners to sell up and exit? A: BlackBerry
Q: What hugely popular annual celebration takes its name from the Sanskrit for 'row of lamps'? A: Diwali
Q: The Easterlin Paradox concerns the relationship between? A: Wealth and Happiness
Q: What famous UK 304-mile protest march took place in October 1936? A: Jarrow Crusade
Q: On 19-20 October 1917 the largest fleet of what attempted and mostly failed to attack the UK? A: Airships
Q: The Grand Bazaar, said to be the world's largest covered market, is in which city? A: Instanbul
Q: Apple's smartphone launched in Autumn/Fall 2011 to unprecedented demand was the iphone? A: 4S
Q: What is a person called who is unappreciative or hostile towards the arts, derived from an ancient race depicted in the Bible as great enemies of Israel? A: Philistine
Q: The Reverend Thomas A Dorsey is linked with the origins of what musical singing style? A: Gospel
Q: The natural basic form of the spice ginger (Zingiber officinale) is a? A: Rhizome
Q: Said to be the most natural unit of time what is typically defined as the period of rotation of the Earth relative to any selected heavenly body? A: Day
Q: What foodstuff, meaning 'fat liver' in French, is made from the liver of a duck or goose fattened traditionally by force-feeding? A: Foie gras
Q: The Head of State in Italy is (at 2011) a? A: President
