Q: "Harold I of England was nicknamed ""Harold "" what?" A: Harefoot
Q: "In Samuel Beckett's play ""Waiting For Godot"", which 2 characters appear together, briefly, once in each act?" A: Pozzo and Lucky
Q: In which country did the idea of Father Christmas coming down the chimney and leaving presents originate? A: USA
Q: From 1935 to 1946, the Philippines was officially called The Commonwealth of the Philippines when the country was a commonwealth of which nation? A: USA
Q: In golf, the Ryder Cup and the biennial Presidents Cup for teams representing the USA and International (non-European) players are unusual in that they use what scoring system? A: Match play
Q: "Besides Meredith Vieira, who has been the host of the US version of ""Who Wants to Be a Millionaire"" since it began airing in 1999?" A: Regis Philbin
Q: "Who featured on the 2006 UK #1 single ""Thunder in My Heart Again"" by Meck SP?" A: Leo Sayer
Q: "What novel, alternatively entitled ""There and Back Again"", is a fantasy novel by J R R Tolkien, published in September 1937?" A: The Hobbit
Q: Since 1961, with what group have Eric Baker, Sean MacBride, Martin Ennals Dirk Brner, Thomas Hammarberg, Jos Zalaquett, Suriya Wickremasinghe, Wolfgang Heinz, Franca Sciuto, Peter Duffy, Annette Fischer, Ross Daniels, Susan Waltz, Mahmoud Ben Romdhane, Colm O Cuanachain, Paul Hoffman, Jaap Jacobson, Hanna Roberts, Lilian Gonalves-Ho Kang You, Peter Pack, Peter Benenson, Ian Martin, Pierre San, Irene Khan and Salil Shetty been associated? A: Amnesty International
Q: "What sport is featured in the play ""Foreskin's Lament"" by Greg McGee?" A: Rugby
Q: On 11 May 2010 David Cameron was asked by Queen Elizabeth II to form a government and, as Prime Minister of the UK, announced that he wished to lead a formal coalition of the Conservative Party and which other party? A: Liberal Democrats
Q: "Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot was the ""real"" name of which Batman villain?" A: Penguin
Q: "The historically significant ""Wind of Change"" speech was made by British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan on 3 February 1960 to the Parliament of which country?" A: South Africa
Q: "Who wrote ""The Naked Ape"" and ""The Human Zoo""?" A: Desmond Morris
Q: "What is the name of the song by Kenny Rogers that includes the lines ""You got to know when to hold 'em, know when to fold 'em, Know when to walk away and know when to run""?" A: The Gambler
Q: What name was given to the predominant type of 20th-century battleship, with an 'all-big-gun' armament & steam turbine propulsion, that was named after the first of the kind, launched by the Royal Navy in 1906? A: Dreadnought
Q: An oenophile is fond of what? A: Wine
Q: "What does ""feng shui"" mean literally?" A: Wind and water
Q: Where is the pituitary gland situated? A: Brain
Q: Pirates operating off the coast of which country took over $100 million in ransom payments between 2007 and 2009? A: Somalia
Q: P B S Pinchback was the first non-white and first person of African American descent to become governor of a US state, serving for 35 days from 9 December 1872, to 13 January 1873. Which state was this? A: Louisiana
Q: The annual rock festival at Roskilde is held in which country? A: Denmark
Q: Whose body was buried in 1543 in an unnamed tomb in the Catholic church of Frombork, Poland, exhumed in 2005, and buried there for a second time in May 2010 in a ceremony conducted by the archbishop of Gniezno and primate of Poland? A: Nicolaus Copernicus
Q: What is the name of the 12 levels of proficiency in judo and karate? A: Dan
Q: Which religion is based on the teachings of Siddartha Gautama? A: Buddhism
Q: "The statue called ""Manneken Pis"", of a small boy relieving himself, is in which city?" A: Brussels
Q: What sign of the zodiac is represented by twins? A: Gemini
Q: Which British TV soap opera ran from 2 November 1964 to 4 April 1988 with minor changes of name, was revived on 5 March 2001, went into hiatus from August 2002 to January 2003, with the final episode broadcast on 30 May 2003? A: Crossroads
Q: Traditionally, the leader of a symphony orchestra plays what? A: The violin
Q: "When Winston Churchill said ""Now this is not the end, nor is it even the beginning of the end, but it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning"", which event was he talking about?" A: The Second Battle of El Alamein
Q: Rosehill racecourse is in which Australian city? A: Sydney
Q: What disease reached epidemic proportions in Haiti late in 2010? A: Cholera
Q: In 1932 the Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd unified with the principal regions of Al-Hasa and Qatif to form which country? A: The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Q: How many letters are there in the Turkish alphabet? A: 29
Q: Which TV series contained the characters Sybil, Polly, Basil and Manuel? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: "What animal takes part in Olympic ""dressage"" events?" A: Horse
Q: "A ""Wobbegong"" is a type of what?" A: Shark
Q: Scott Robinson, Ritchie Neville, J Brown, Abs Breen and Sean Conlon were the founder members of which boy band? A: 5ive
Q: "The term ""rope-a-dope"" is from what sport?" A: Boxing
Q: "The phrase ""Mountain Standard Time"" refers to what mountains?" A: Rockies
Q: "The flag of which country is a horizontal tricolour of ""deep saffron"" at the top, white in the middle, and green at the bottom with, in the centre, a navy blue wheel with twenty-four spokes?" A: India
Q: "Billy Blaze, an 8-year-old genius who constructed a spaceship in his backyard from old soup cans and other household objects called ""The Bean-with-Bacon Megarocket"" puts on his brother's football helmet and becomes what character in a video game series?" A: Commander Keen
Q: In the Bible, Goliath was a member of what group? A: Philistines
Q: Who, before being awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for 2003, was the first author to be awarded the Booker Prize twice? A: J M Coetzee
Q: Who is a former British triple jumper who held the Olympic, Commonwealth, European and World records, and has held the world record in the event since 1995? A: Jonathan Edwards
Q: "Who is involved in a ""curtain call""?" A: Performers
Q: "Who wrote, often with Howard Greenfield, the songs ""Oh! Carol"" (1959), ""Calendar Girl"" (1960), ""Little Devil"" (1961), ""Happy Birthday Sweet Sixteen"" (1961), ""Breaking Up Is Hard to Do"" (1962) and ""Next Door to an Angel"" (1962)?" A: Neil Sedaka
Q: "On 1 September 2010, In the Iraq War, the USA replaced the name ""Operation Iraqi Freedom"" by what?" A: Operation New Dawn
Q: What term applies to an engine comprising two banks of four cylinders inclined towards each other, with a common crankshaft? A: V8
Q: Which football team returned home from the 2010 African Nations Cup in Angola after their bus was shot at and three people were killed? A: Togo
Q: "The ""Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act"" signed into law in the US state of Arizona on 23 April 2010 to take effect on 28 July 2010, concerns what?" A: Illegal immigration
Q: "Whose autobiography was entitled ""A Long Walk to Freedom""?" A: Nelson Mandela
Q: Tofu is made by coagulating what, and compacting the resulting curds into blocks? A: Soy milk
Q: Which body of water borders the state of Washington, USA? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: Where is the boxing venue known as Madison Square Garden? A: New York
Q: "Who wrote ""Come friendly bombs and fall on Slough, it isn't fit for humans now""?" A: Sir John Betjeman
Q: How many Mexican states share a land border with the USA? A: 6
Q: What is the term for reactions some people have that are severe and life-threatening allergies (to environmental or dietary allergens or to medication)? A: Anaphylactic
Q: Ashley Jensen played Maggie Jacobs in which TV series? A: Extras
Q: What was the name of the British Royal Yacht that entered service in 1953 and decommissioned on 11 December 1997? A: Britannia
Q: In 1314, who led the Scottish forces at the Battle of Bannockburn? A: Robert the Bruce
Q: A theory of the workings of the human body adopted by Greek and Roman physicians and believed until the 19th century was that it was filled with 4 basic substances (black bile, yellow bile, phlegm, and blood). These were collectively known as what? A: Humours
Q: Which New Zealand cricketer, a left-handed batsman who captained New Zealand in 4 Tests in the early 1950s, was one of Wisden's cricketers of the year for 1950? A: Bert Sutcliffe
Q: Where are the 2018 Winter Olympics, officially known as the XXIII Olympic Winter Games, to be held? A: Pyeongchang, South Korea
Q: What city, founded around 1048 by King Harald III, was largely destroyed by fire and rebuilt from 1624 by King Christian IV and named Christiania, and reverted to its original name in 1925? A: Oslo
Q: Who won the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest? A: ABBA
Q: Who was shot dead on 9 October 1967 while trying to organise a revolution in Bolivia? A: Che Guevara
Q: Which card game, originating in Spain and introduced to England in 1861, is played between 2 persons with 2 packs of cards (with sixes and below removed) who are dealt 8 cards each? A: Bezique
Q: "Where is Mozart's opera ""The Marriage of Figaro"" set?" A: Spain
Q: Commander Shepard, Jacob Taylor, Miranda Lawson, Thane Krios, Grunt, Jack, Mordin Solus, Samara, Morinth, Legion, Zaeed Messani, Garrus Vakarian and Tali'Zorah Vas Neema are characters in which computer game? A: Mass Effect 2
Q: Where was playwright Samuel Beckett born? A: Ireland
Q: "What is another name for the ""Aurora Borealis""?" A: Northern lights
Q: "What international consumer item does the ""Economist"" use to compare purchasing power between countries?" A: Big Mac
Q: "Whose 33rd album was called ""In Search of the Fourth Chord""?" A: Status Quo
Q: What type of geographical feature is an ox-bow? A: Lake
Q: Who, as US Secretary of State under President Eisenhower from 1953 to 1959, advocated an aggressive stance against communism, supported France in the war in Indochina, and played a major role in the CIA operations to overthrow democratic governments in Iran in 1953 and in Guatemala in 1954? A: John Foster Dulles
Q: What is Canada's largest province by area? A: Quebec
Q: At which UK General Election was Helen Grant elected, the Conservative Party's first black female MP? A: 2010
Q: During World War II, what was the name given to deliberately created simulations of burning towns that were constructed in Britain to decoy German night bombers away from bombing real towns? A: Starfish sites
Q: "According to the nursery rhyme ""Polly put the kettle on"", who took it off again?" A: Sukey
Q: Salvador Dali was a principal figure in what artistic movement? A: Surrealism
Q: What does a person with narcolepsy do? A: Falls asleep
Q: On what day in 1066 was William I crowned King of England in Westminster Abbey? A: Christmas Day
Q: What Texas city stands on the Rio Grande (Ro Bravo del Norte), across the border from Ciudad Jurez, Chihuahua, Mexico? A: El Paso
Q: The metropolitan area of Ottawa is in Quebec and which other Canadian province? A: Ontario
Q: What is it called when a surfer falls off the surfboard while riding a wave? A: Wipeout
Q: Who defeated the British army in 1879 at the Battle of Isandlwana? A: Zulus
Q: "What name was used for two forests in J. R. R. Tolkien's ""Hobbit""/ ""Lord of the Rings"" saga, the first under Morgoth's control, and the second under the influence of Sauron?" A: Mirkwood
Q: What gas is used to make carbonated soft drinks and soda water? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: The Safari Rally, a round of the World Rally Championship from 1973 to 2002 held in Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika, was first run as a commemorative event, in what year? A: 1953
Q: Which war pitted anarchists, socialists, and Communists supported by the Soviets and international volunteers, against conservatives, monarchists, nationalists and fascists, with the support of Portugal, Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany? A: The Spanish Civil War
Q: Which country occupies the islands called Palawan, Mindoro, Marinduque, Masbate, Batanes, Bohol, Leyte and Samar? A: Philippines
Q: What metal marks a 10th wedding anniversary? A: Tin
Q: Which wonder of the ancient world was at Halicarnassus, Persia? A: Mausoleum of Mausolus
Q: What organisation was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1917, 1944 and 1963? A: International Committee of the Red Cross
Q: With which sport is Don Bradman associated? A: Cricket
Q: At the 1988 Olympics, the team from Great Britain defeated West Germany to win gold in which sport? A: Field hockey
Q: Who was shot by Valery Solanas on 3 June 1968? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Clive Owen starred in the title role of which 2004 film directed by Antoine Fuqua and written by David Franzoni, with Ioan Gruffudd, Keira Knightley and Ivano Marescotti? A: King Arthur
Q: In which sport is a contest called honbasho or basho? A: Sumo wrestling
Q: Which country withdrew from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in 2008 after it became a net importer of oil? A: Indonesia
Q: Abraham Ortelius, a Flemish cartographer and geographer, is generally recognised as the creator of the first what in 1570 ? A: Modern atlas
Q: "How many US states begin with the letter ""O""?" A: 3
Q: "When is Shakespeare's play ""Troilus and Cressida"" set?" A: The Trojan War
Q: David Leadbetter and Butch Harmon are coaches in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Who was on the throne of England when Francis Drake fought the Spanish Armada in 1588? A: Elizabeth I
Q: The first Punic War was fought mainly on which island? A: Sicily
Q: "Who was the female lead in the film ""Casablanca""?" A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: Cautley Spout, Gocta, Hannoki, ShirAbad, and Shoshone are the names of what? A: Waterfalls
Q: "In golf, what is the term for ""four strokes under par""?" A: Condor
Q: What basic food can be evaporated, condensed, pasteurised or dried? A: Milk
Q: Which Jewish festival, celebrated on the 14th and 15th of March, is to commemorate the preservation of the Jews in Persia from the destruction threatened by Haman? A: Purim
Q: Competitors from which country won the most medals at the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships held in Rotterdam, Netherlands from 16 to 24 October 2010? A: People's Republic of China
Q: What 2005 science fiction-thriller film starring Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving, Stephen Rea and John Hurt, is an adaptation of a comic book by Alan Moore and David Lloyd? A: V for Vendetta
Q: What is the current name of the country that was ruled by the Pahlavi dynasty from 1925 to 1979? A: Iran
Q: The sausage tree, Kigelia or Worsboom is native to which continent? A: Africa
Q: The islands of Kos, Leros, Nisyros, Patmos and Rhodes are in what sea? A: Mediterranean
Q: What is a medical term referring to the presence of pathogenic organisms in the bloodstream, leading to blood poisoning? A: Septicemia
Q: Members of what family were killed in the Massacre of Glencoe in Scotland, on 13 February 1692? A: McDonald
Q: "Which fictional character referred to his wife as ""She Who Must Be Obeyed""?" A: Rumpole of the Bailey
Q: What is the name of the leg action used in breaststroke? A: Frog kick
Q: In English folklore, what symbolises fertility and rebirth? A: The Green Man
Q: The boundaries of four states of the USA, known as the Four Corners states, meet at one point, the only such geographic point in the USA. They are Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and which other? A: Utah
Q: What was the occupation of Anna Politkovskaya, who was found dead in the elevator of her apartment in central Moscow on 7 October 2006, shot twice in the chest, once in the shoulder, and once in the head at point blank range? A: Journalist
Q: What are chlorine, bromine and iodine? A: Halogens
Q: "What fictional island off the coast of Sumatra that first appeared in the 1933 film ""King Kong"" is the home of King Kong and other creatures?" A: Skull Island
Q: "What meteorological phenomenon is named after the Arabic word for ""season""?" A: Monsoon
Q: "What is the middle name of Sir Austin Powers, KBE, a fictional character who first appeared in ""Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery"" (1997) and is portrayed by Mike Myers?" A: Danger
Q: Which Australian, a winner of Golden Globe, BAFTA, Screen Actors Guild and Australian Film Institute awards, became, in 2009, one of 17 people to have won an Academy Award, a Tony Award and an Emmy Award? A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: Ricky Ponting represented Australia in what sport? A: Cricket
Q: What creature is on the flag of Bhutan? A: Dragon
Q: "A US TV series (1974 to 1982) was called ""The Little House ... "" where?" A: On The Prairie
Q: Italy controlled which country from 1911 to 1943? A: Libya
Q: """A pitch"" is the way that the ball is put into play in which game?" A: Baseball
Q: "What genre did Howard L. Chace, a professor of French, use when he wrote ""Ladle Rat Rotten Hut"", the story of Little Red Riding Hood written using English words (but never the correct ones) to demonstrate that the intonation of spoken English is almost as important to the meaning as the words themselves?" A: Homophonic transformation
Q: Mandy Rice-Davies, Christine Keeler and Stephen Ward all became infamous in the UK for their part in what event in the 1960s? A: The Profumo Affair
Q: "What is a variation of the standard card game of poker which consists of two cards being dealt face down to each player and then 5 community cards being placed by the dealer (3 as ""the flop"" then 1 called ""the turn"", then 1 called ""the river""), with players having the option to check, bet or fold after each deal?" A: Texas Hold 'Em
Q: The seven brightest stars of which constellation form the asterism known as the Big Dipper in the United States and Canada, or the Plough in the United Kingdom and Ireland? A: Ursa Major
Q: "Who painted ""Number 5"" in 1948?" A: Jackson Pollock
Q: How many sides does a hendecagon have? A: 11
Q: "From 14 November 1994 when services began until 14 November 2007, from where did ""Eurostar"" trains leave London for Paris?" A: Waterloo
Q: In Greek mythology, Hera sent two serpents to kill which baby? A: Heracles
Q: The Forest of Arden appears in which Shakespearean play? A: As You Like It
Q: In 2008, who became the first female recipient of the Latin Recording Academy Person of the Year award? A: Gloria Estefan
Q: The UEFA cup is a soccer tournament for teams from which continent? A: Europe
Q: "What was the setting for the British TV series ""Taggart""?" A: Glasgow
Q: What needlework technique incorporating features of embroidery, cutwork and needle lace, popular in England in the 19th century, is characterised by patterns composed of small holes or eyelets bound with overcast or buttonhole stitches? A: Broderie Anglaise
Q: What did the British nickname the V1 rocket during the London Bitz during World War II? A: Doodlebug
Q: What is the largest inland delta? A: Okavango Delta
Q: What area of Paris is served by the metro stations of Anvers, Blanche, Pigalle, Abbesses, Lamarck - Caulaincourt and Jules Joffrin? A: Montmartre
Q: "In which of Shakespeare's plays is Brutus described as ""the noblest Roman of them all""?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: What is the official spoken language of China? A: Mandarin
Q: What, the largest of its type at the time, was destroyed by fire at Alexandria in the first century BC? A: Library
Q: What is the largest city in the province of Ontario, Canada? A: Toronto
Q: "In 1984, who had a hit single snging about how he ""got my first real six-string, bought it at the five-and-dime, played 'til my fingers bled. It was summer of '69""?" A: Bryan Adams
Q: Most of the state of Nevada is in which time zone? A: Pacific
Q: A rhombus has how any sides? A: 4
Q: What name was given to a series of protests and political events that took place in Ukraine from late November 2004 to January 2005? A: The Orange Revolution
Q: What was Cleopatra's favourite colour? A: Purple
Q: In February 2010, Joseph Stack, a 53 year old software engineer, crashed his light plane into Internal Revenue Service offices in which city? A: Austin, Texas
Q: "Who created the comic strip ""The Wizard of Id""?" A: Brant Parker and Johnny Hart
Q: "In the nursery rhyme beginning ""Hey Diddle Diddle"", who was with a fiddle?" A: Cat
Q: The markka is the base unit of currency in which country? A: Finland
Q: Who was the mother of Queen Elizabeth I of England and Ireland? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: Who married Ethan Hawke in 1998? A: Uma Thurman
Q: In what country were measures announced on 22 April 2010 by the Prime Minister to cut consumption of power, affecting the length of the official weekend, signs, government offices, air conditioners, street markets, commercial centers, weddings and wells? A: Pakistan
Q: What religious organisation was formed under the leadership of George Fox in the mid 17th century? A: Quakers
Q: What are the bottom-most 3 to 5 fused vertebra of the backbone called? A: Coccygeal
Q: The European parliament meets in Strasbourg and which other city? A: Brussels
Q: What chemical element takes its name from the Roman name for Paris? A: Lutetium
Q: In 2010 at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, who beat England's Jonny Wilkinson's record for scoring 1178 points in test match rugby? A: Dan Carter
Q: "The ""Ballad of Chevy Chase"" is an old English folk song about what event?" A: The Battle of Otterburn
Q: The Vistula is the longest river in which country? A: Poland
Q: Which British political party led by John Hargrave wore green shirts as a uniform? A: Social Credit
Q: What colour are copper sulphate crystals? A: Blue
Q: "The ""Authorised"" English translation of the Bible was named after whom?" A: James I
Q: "Where is the ""Summer Palace"" which is also known as the ""Garden of Nurtured Harmony""?" A: Beijing
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 2 points? A: Yellow
Q: What military slang term for members of the US Marine Corps was derived from a special collar once worn around the neck by both American and British Marines and soldiers from 1798? A: Leathernecks
Q: Roger Moore first played James Bond in which film? A: Live and Let Die
Q: What device is used to regulate a person's heart rate? A: Pacemaker
Q: What is the capital of Wales? A: Cardiff
Q: "What is the media nickname of Viktor Bout, a Russian arms dealer who was said to be the inspiration for Nicolas Cage's character in the 2005 film ""Lord of War""?" A: Merchant of Death
Q: A cor anglais is what type of instrument? A: Brass
Q: By what name were Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, David Dellinger, Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, John Froines, Lee Weiner, and Bobby Seale collectively known when they appeared before Judge Julius Hoffman in 1969? A: The Chicago Eight
Q: Who signed and issued the Emancipation Proclamation on New Year's day 1863? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which of North America's Great Lakes has the same name as a province of Canada? A: Ontario
Q: "Where did the old woman who ""had so many children she didn't know what to do"" live?" A: Shoe
Q: In April 2010, after riots in the capital which overthrew the government, President Kurmanbek Bakiyev left which country, leaving the way clear for the head of the new provisional government, Roza Otunbayeva? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: What is another word for jet lag? A: Desynchronosis
Q: What is the former home and burial place of George Washington? A: Mt Vernon
Q: Who was tried for treason on 17 November 1603 for trying to remove James I from the Engish throne? A: Walter Raleigh
Q: The Garonne river passes through Toulouse and Bordeaux after rising where? A: The Pyrenees
Q: Myalgic pain affects which part of the body? A: Muscles
Q: Who is second in the line of US presidential succession, following the Vice President? A: Speaker of the House of Representatives
Q: "What is an ""indigent"" person?" A: Poor
Q: Longacre Square, a major intersection in Manhattan, New York City, at the junction of Broadway and Seventh Avenue and stretching from West 42nd to West 47th Streets, has been known as what since April 1904? A: Times Square
Q: In snooker, what colour ball is spotted on the centre of the table? A: Blue
Q: More than 99% of the mass of our solar system is contained within what? A: The Sun
Q: When was the first World Cup cricket contest held? A: 1975
Q: What temperature scale is referenced to absolute zero (i.e. where there is the theoretical absence of all thermal energy)? A: Kelvin
Q: A synapse is a space where a nerve impulse travels between what? A: Neurons
Q: Mick Rock has what occupation in the recording industry? A: Photographer
Q: How many orbits of the earth did John Glenn make in Mercury-Atlas 6 in 1962? A: 3
Q: Who was the Roman god of the underworld? A: Pluto
Q: Who, in Formula One, between 2006 and 2010, was the youngest Formula One driver to: drive at a Grand Prix meeting, score points, lead a race, secure pole position, win a race and win the championship? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: "A ""parsec"" is a measure of what?" A: Distance
Q: "Who directed the 2003 film starring Ewan McGregor, Billy Crudup and Albert Finney called ""Big Fish""?" A: Tim Burton
Q: Which musical was written by Tim Rice with two ex-members of ABBA? A: Chess
Q: The Dalai Lama fled Tibet in 1959 due to its occupation by troops from what country? A: China
Q: The Jewish festival of the Passover is held around the same time as which Christian festival? A: Easter
Q: What part of the body is affected by conjunctivitis? A: Eye
Q: On 13 November 2010, who became the first boxer to win world titles in eight different weight divisions and the first boxer to win the lineal championship in four different weight classes? A: Manny Pacquiao
Q: "What type of music is Handel's ""Messiah""?" A: Oratorio
Q: The element cobalt gets its name from the German word for what? A: Goblin
Q: Which country was proclaimed a People's Republic on 1 October 1949, following the defeat of forces led by Chiang Kai-shek? A: China
Q: "Which company designed the ""safety pin dress"" worn by Liz Hurley to a 1994 Los Angeles film premiere?" A: Versace
Q: What sport is competed in the Giro de Italia? A: Cycling
Q: Memorial Day, formerly known as Decoration Day, a US federal holiday observed on the last Monday of May to commemorate US men and women who died while in the military service, was first commemorated to honour soldiers in which war? A: American Civil War
Q: What country is due north of Hawaii? A: USA
Q: "What was the setting for the 1980 film ""Fame""?" A: New York High School of Performing Arts
Q: Who led a team to make the Cumberland Gap, a way through the Appalachian Mountains, accessible to pioneers, who used it to journey into the western frontiers of Kentucky and Tennessee? A: Daniel Boone
Q: Between 1903 and 1904, sites in the Australian townships of Albury, Tumut, Orange, Bombala and Dalgety were considered for what purpose? A: The capital of Australia
Q: In what TV series was Oceanic Airlines flight 815 a critical factor? A: Lost
Q: Where is the 82,000 seat Maracana Stadium? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: What is the title of Geri Halliwell's autobiography, published in 1999? A: If Only
Q: "What was the only single by ABBA to reach number 1 on the US ""Billboard"" charts?" A: Dancing Queen
Q: "If Prince William of Wales, the elder son of Charles and Diana, Prince and Princess of Wales, becomes ""King William"", what number will he be?" A: William V
Q: Which character in the comic strip Charlie Brown plays the piano? A: Schroeder
Q: The US Civil War was in which century? A: 19th
Q: What colour is a domesticated Pekin duck? A: White
Q: In which sea is the British overseas territory of Montserrat? A: Caribbean
Q: "The musical ""The Sound of Music"" is set in what city?" A: Salzburg
Q: Usually, the United Kingdom holds general elections every four years. In the 20th century, how many times did the UK hold more than one general election in one year? A: 2
Q: The stress that causes a metal object to break is called metal what? A: Fatigue
Q: What is a religious censure used to deprive or suspend membership in a religious community? A: Excommunication
Q: What is the offficial language of Australia? A: English
Q: From 1885 to 1908, a corporate state of 2,344,000 km (905,000 square miles), privately controlled by Leopold II, King of the Belgians, became infamous for mistreatment of the local peoples and exploitation of natural resources. What was this area known as? A: Congo Free State
Q: Who caused the crash of Pacific Southwest Airlines Flight 1771, near Cayucos, California, USA on 7 December 1987, by shooting the pilots and killing all 43 people on board? A: David Burke
Q: What US state borders both Kansas and Utah? A: Colorado
Q: What was the first black and white short cartoon film produced by Walt Disney? A: Steamboat Willie
Q: Which American explorer claimed to have been the first person, on 6 April 1909, to reach the geographic North Pole? A: Robert E Peary
Q: What was the only part of the British Isles to be occupied by Germany in World War II? A: Channel Islands
Q: A candela is a measure of what? A: Luminous intensity
Q: On which island is Marsamxett Harbour? A: Malta
Q: "What does the French word ""croissant"" mean?" A: Crescent
Q: "What sport is featured in ""Chariots of Fire"", a 1981 film starring Ben Cross?" A: Running
Q: "A ""Howitzer"" is a type of what?" A: Gun
Q: The migration of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his followers from Mecca to the city of Medina in 622, which marked year one of the Islamic calendar, was known as what? A: Hijra
Q: Which King of Macedon created one of the largest empires in ancient history between 336 and 323BC, including most of the city-states of mainland Greece and the (then) Persian-ruled Asia Minor? A: Alexander The Great
Q: Where are the Minoan ruins of Knossus? A: Crete
Q: Sleepers are used to support what? A: Railway lines
Q: What name was given to the political and social movement that united the states of the Italian peninsula into the single country of Italy in the 19th century? A: Il Risorgimento
Q: Mount Vesuvius overlooks what area? A: Bay of Naples
Q: How many lungs should a human have? A: 2
Q: In freestyle skiing, what are the large bumps on the piste called? A: Moguls
Q: After the Battle of Landriano, French monarch Franois I was forced to concede defeat in which war? A: The War of the League of Cognac
Q: On the Christian calendar, what is the day before Ash Wednesday? A: Shrove Tuesday
Q: "Reed Richards, Susan ""Sue"" Storm (Reed's wife), Johnny Storm (Sue's younger brother), and Ben Grimm are the secret identities of which fictional group?" A: Fantastic Four
Q: In Greek mythology, who were the children of Uranus and Galatea? A: Titans
Q: "Who was Marlon Brando's co-star in the 1972 film ""Last Tango in Paris"", directed by Bernardo Bertolucci?" A: Maria Schneider
Q: Between 1989 and 2002, the UK's Dalton Grant was a gold medal winner in what sport? A: High jump
Q: Andrea Jaeger of the US had a successful career in professional tennis, becoming World Ranked number 2, between the ages of 15 and 19, but it ended prematurely due to major shoulder injuries. What profession did she take up in 2006? A: Nun
Q: "What was the name of the ""state"" that was never officially admitted into the Union of the USA after delegates from some North Carolina counties declared independence from North Carolina in 1784, and, in 1788, went back to being part of North Carolina?" A: Franklin
Q: What name was given to a narrative poem typically sung by trouvres (medieval minstrels)? A: Lay
Q: In cricket, what name is given to a lower-order batsman who comes in to bat higher up the order than usual near the end of the day's play, to maintain most of the strike until the close of play and so protect other, more capable batsmen from being out cheaply in what may be a period of tiredness or in poor light? A: Nightwatchman
Q: In Greek mythology, Zeus disguised himself as a swan to seduce whom? A: Leda
Q: Which band played a free concert with a claimed 1.5 million attendance at the Copacabana beach in Rio de Janeiro on 18 February 2006? A: The Rolling Stones
Q: A manx cat has no what? A: Tail
Q: Where is it that Roman Catholics believe souls are held after death for purification to be made fit for heaven? A: Purgatory
Q: French actress Catherine Deneuve has been married once, from 1965 to 1972, to whom? A: Photographer David Bailey
Q: In Greek mythology, who thought up the idea of the Trojan Horse? A: Odysseus
Q: Balsam and cottonwoods are species of what? A: Poplar
Q: What was name of the last English monarch from the House of Hanover? A: Victoria
Q: When did a man last walk on the moon? A: 1972
Q: Who was Minister-Chairman of the Russian Provisional Government and Prime Minister of Russia from 21 July 1917 (following the abdication of Tsar Nicholas II) to 8 November 1917 (the Bolshevik revolution), who is buried in Putney Vale Cemetery, London? A: Alexander Kerensky
Q: Marti Pellow was the lead vocalist of what group? A: Wet Wet Wet
Q: The USA won the most medals at the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000. Out of these countries, which one won the most? A: Australia
Q: In Greek mythology, who rode Pegasus, the flying horse? A: Perseus
Q: What country has the most Catholics in the population? A: Brazil
Q: "What is the title of a detective crime novel by Robert B. Parker, written as an authorised sequel to ""The Big Sleep"" by Raymond Chandler?" A: Perchance to Dream
Q: Which suit is the most powerful, i.e. apart from no trumps, in Contract Bridge? A: Spades
Q: Edward the Confessor became King of England in which century? A: 11th
Q: What is the name of the supercomputer at the National Supercomputer Center in Tianjin, China, one of the few petaFLOP-level supercomputers in the world, that in October 2010 became the world's fastest supercomputer, performing at peak computing rate of 2.507 petaflops? A: Tianhe-1A
Q: What was the first name of the first First Lady of the USA? A: Martha
Q: What is the name for a squirrel's nest? A: Drey
Q: In 1965, who became the first person to summit Mount Kennedy, at the time the highest mountain in Canada that had not yet been climbed, that had been named in honour of John F Kennedy after his assassination? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: Who commanded the Spartan fleet in the Hellespont, which defeated the Athenians at Aegospotami in 405 BC? A: Lysander
Q: What device, invented by Peter Cooper Hewitt in 1902 and obsolete by 1975 with the introduction of devices such as the silicon diode and thyristor, converts alternating current to direct current by means of putting electricity through vapor? A: Mercury arc rectifier
Q: La Plata is the capital city of which province of Argentina? A: Buenos Aires
Q: "Where is the Palazzo Farnese (the Farnese Palace), in which, in Puccini's opera ""Tosca"", the heroine confronts Scarpia, the malevolent Chief of Police?" A: Rome
Q: The Bombay duck or bummalo is what type of creature? A: Lizardfish
Q: Which cocktail has scotch whisky and vermouth as a base? A: Rob Roy
Q: In 300 BC, the country now known as Spain was part of which empire? A: Roman
Q: Chris Martin is the singer for which band? A: Coldplay
Q: Bear Grylls is the only person to appear in what TV series? A: Man v Wild
Q: Where was the capital of the Roman Empire in 400 AD? A: Ravenna
Q: What name is given to sympathetic pregnancy? A: Couvade syndrome
Q: What country was divided at the 38th parallel in 1945? A: Korea
Q: "What was the name of the character played by George Clooney in the ""Oceans"" film series released from 19 to 19?" A: Danny
Q: """Die Fledermaus"" is an operetta composed by Johann Strauss II. What is a ""fledermaus""?" A: Bat
Q: "What actress, born in Muscat, Oman, began acting on Australian television on ""Paradise Beach"" and ""Home and Away"" and is known for her roles in ""Wedding Crashers"" (2005), ""Hot Rod"" (2007), ""Definitely, Maybe"" (2008) and ""Confessions of a Shopaholic"" (2009)?" A: Isla Fisher
Q: What is the largest species of whale? A: Blue whale
Q: The Romanov Dynasty (Peter I, Catherine I, Peter II, Anna, Ivan VI, Elizabeth, Peter III, Catherine II the Great, Paul I, Alexander I, Constantine I, Nicholas I, Alexander II , Alexander III and Nicholas II) ruled which country? A: Russia
Q: A shadoof is for lifting what? A: Water
Q: The parliament of which country has met at the Binnenhof since 1446? A: Netherlands
Q: Where was the Battle of Hastings, which took place on 14 October 1066 between the Norman army of Duke William II of Normandy and the English army of King Harold II? A: Senlac Hill
Q: "Who produced the film ""12 Angry Men"", which was scripted by Reginald Rose, starred Henry Fonda and was directed by Sidney Lumet?" A: Henry Fonda
Q: What murderer lived at 10 Rillington Place, Notting Hill, London? A: John Christie
Q: Pedology is the study of what? A: Soil
Q: What part of the body is affected by the condition called rickets? A: Bones
Q: What was the code name for the German invasion of Russia in World War II? A: Operation Barbarossa
Q: With what activity was Isadora Duncan associated? A: Dance
Q: "What type of story begins ""once upon a time"" and ends ""they lived happily ever after""?" A: Fairy tale
Q: What was the first land passage between Manhattan Island and Brooklyn that, on its opening in 1883, became the longest suspension bridge in the world and its towers the tallest structures in the Western Hemisphere? A: Brooklyn Bridge
Q: Which medieval work of literature, sometimes called the world's first novel, is still available today? A: The Tale of Genji
Q: What is the name of Janet Jackson's (deceased) superstar brother? A: Michael
Q: "What phrase means ""let the buyer beware""?" A: Caveat emptor
Q: What multi-user adventure game was developed from 1978 by Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle from 1980, students at Essex University in the UK, that revolved around gaining points till one achieved the wizard rank, giving the player immortality and certain powers over mortals? A: MUD (Multi-User Dungeon)
Q: """The Gorbals"" is an area in which city?" A: Glasgow
Q: At the start of a game of chess, there are 16 of which pieces on the board? A: Pawns
Q: In which state of Australia would you find the area known as the Barkly Tableland? A: Northern Territory
Q: What spoken word competition, which has been organised for many years by Gary Hallock, has been held every May since 1978 in Austin, Texas? A: The O. Henry Pun-Off
Q: What is the generic title of a series of French comic strips that follows the exploits of a village of ancient Gauls as they resist Roman occupation by means of a magic potion brewed by their druid, which gives them superhuman strength? A: The Adventures of Asterix
Q: "Clive Owen played ""Dwight"" in which 2005 film?" A: Sin City
Q: The team from which country won the tennis tournament for the Davis Cup in 2010? A: Serbia
Q: "Who wrote the stage play ""The Rise and Fall of Little Voice""?" A: Jim Cartwright
Q: In biology, what word is given to the change in the genetic material of a population of organisms from one generation to the next? A: Evolution
Q: World War I took place mostly on what continent between 1914 and 1918? A: Europe
Q: Which country held its bicentennial celebrations in 1976? A: USA
Q: "Who wrote the books ""Fourplay"" (published in 2001), ""The Ex Files"" (2003), ""dot.homme"" (2004), ""Second Wives Club"" (2005) and ""Love @ First Site"" (2005)?" A: Jane Moore
Q: "What was the occupation of the character called Ross Geller in the TV series ""Friends""?" A: Palaeontologist
Q: The Great Pyramid of Giza was built for King Khufu as a what? A: Tomb
Q: "What bird is nicknamed ""man of war"" because it steals food from other birds in the air?" A: Frigate bird
Q: Formaggio marcio is notable for containing what? A: Live insect larvae
Q: Which English King was married to Eleanor of Aquitaine? A: Henry II
Q: "Who created the work ""A Thousand Years"", consisting of a cow's head, maggots and an insect electrocutor?" A: Damien Hirst
Q: "The ""Byzantine Empire"" is the term used since the 19th century to describe the Roman Empire of the Middle Ages, centred on its capital, where?" A: Constantinople
Q: """Well you can tell by the way I use my walk, I'm a woman's man, no time to talk"" are lyrics from which song by the Bee Gees?" A: Stayin' Alive
Q: Appenzeller, Bndner Bergkse. Casalina, Crava, Dorset Blue Vinney, Giglio Sardo, Labneh. Piave, Sage Derby and Strica are all types of what? A: Cheese
Q: Anthony Wilding is the only New Zealander in what sport's Hall of Fame? A: Tennis
Q: Where did the Phnom Penh stampede occur, on 22 November 2010 when 378 people died and upwards of 755 more were injured? A: On a bridge
Q: "In the twelve years since it began on 4 September 1998, how many contestants in the UK version of ""Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?"" won 1,000,000?" A: 5
Q: Which professional surfer who died on 2 November 2010, the only surfer to have won a title at every venue on the ASP calendar, had won 3 world titles (2002, 2003, 2004) and as recently as 3 September 2010 had won the Billabong Pro in Tahiti? A: Andy Irons
Q: "In the English legal system, what does a lawyer become when he ""takes silk""?" A: QC
Q: How many different people were Prime Minister of New Zealand in the first 100 years after it became a Dominion in 1907? A: 21
Q: The Bretton Woods Agreements, signed by 44 nations in 1944, were about what? A: International finance
Q: What is the British Engineerium, in Hove? A: An engineering and steam power museum
Q: The first Transit of Venus in the 21st century took place on 8 June 2004. What is the date of the next one? A: June 2012
Q: What did the band S Club 7 change their name to when Paul Cattermole left in June 2002? A: S Club
Q: "What fictional ship, with black hull and sails, was originally named ""Wicked Wench""?" A: Black Pearl
Q: Traditionally, Easter buns are eaten on which day? A: Good Friday
Q: Jean Todt, Morrie Chandler,Graham Stoker and Brian Gibbons have been recently involved in the adminstration of which sport at an international level? A: Motorsport
Q: Who discovered and named the element francium in 1939? A: Marguerite Perey
Q: "The name of which board game means ""I play"" in Latin?" A: Ludo
Q: What name is given to the murder of 7 people as part of a Prohibition Era conflict between the South Side Italian gang led by Al Capone and the North Side Irish gang led by Bugs Moran in Chicago, Illinois, in 1929? A: The Saint Valentine's Day massacre
Q: What does a mycologist study? A: Fungi
Q: In America, as what was Bill Shoemaker famous? A: Jockey
Q: Project Habakkuk was a plan by the British in World War II to construct what from ice? A: Aircraft carriers
Q: In 2009, what name was proposed for the bridge connecting roads for a new route across the Colorado River for U.S. Route 93, known as the Hoover Dam Bypass? A: Mike O'Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial Bridge
Q: Where are the Wahibah Sands? A: Oman
Q: What land was recorded by the American captain Benjamin Morrell of the schooner Wasp in March 1823, in the Weddell Sea area of Antarctica, the existence of which was not disproved until during Antarctic expeditions in the early 20th century? A: New South Greenland
Q: "Where is the opera house ""La Fenice"" that reopened in 2003 after its second fire in just under 200 years?" A: Venice
Q: Where would one find the Appleton layer? A: The earth's upper atmosphere
Q: Who was the third wife of Henry VIII? A: Jane Seymour
Q: What generic term describes food traditionally favoured by southern black Americans such as country fried chicken, chitterlings and black-eyed peas? A: Soul food
Q: In 1961 in Paris, the French police attacked a peaceful but illegal demonstration of around 30,000 people, killing between 40 and 200, who were protesting about what? A: Algerian War
Q: What part of the body is affected by a stye? A: Eye
Q: The tiger is native to which continent? A: Asia
Q: According to Greek mythology, who spent eternity in the underworld with food and drink just out of reach? A: Tantalus
Q: What is a pre-Columbian Inca site located 2,430 metres (7,970 ft) above sea level, on a ridge above the Urubamba Valley in Peru? A: Machu Picchu
Q: What country will host the 2022 FIFA World Cup competition? A: Qatar
Q: Until Tony Blair, which of Britain's Labour Prime Ministers was in office for the longest overall time? A: Harold Wilson
Q: An optometrist is concerned with what part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Which English King died of dysentery while campaigning in France? A: Henry V
Q: LeBron James, Chris Bosh and Dwyane Wade play what sport professionally for the Miami Heat? A: Basketball
Q: The first vice-president of the USA to be elected President, the father of a future President, assistant in drafting the Declaration of Independence and negotiating peace with Great Britain, and architect of vital government loans from the Netherlands, was who? A: John Adams
Q: What is a common nickname for the English city of Oxford? A: The city of dreaming spires
Q: Which 2003 drama film, named after a painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and directed by Peter Webber, stars Scarlett Johansson, Colin Firth, Tom Wilkinson & Cillian Murphy? A: Girl with a Pearl Earring
Q: Who is the only president of the USA to serve non-consecutive terms? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: In 1961 US President John F Kennedy negotiated for the release of the 1,189 survivors out of 1,500 men directed and trained by the USA who had tried to invade which country? A: Cuba
Q: What is the name for an angle greater than 180 degrees and less than 360 degrees? A: Reflex
Q: Since its debut in the UK in 1998, international versions of which TV programme have spawned in over a hundred countries, more than any other game show? A: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire
Q: Asperger's syndrome is believed to a form of what? A: Autism
Q: "Since 14 November 2007, from where do ""Eurostar"" trains leave London for Paris? on Eurostar services in London transferred from Waterloo to the brand new St Pancras International" A: St Pancras
Q: How long, to the nearest mile, is an Olympic marathon? A: 26
Q: James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth, declared himself King and was crowned in Chard and in Taunton in 1685 in an attempt to overthrow whom? A: James II
Q: What is the word for a document issued by a political party before an election that sets out party policies? A: Manifesto
Q: Michael Jordan was with which team when they won 6 National Basketball Association titles? A: Chicago Bulls
Q: The epiglottis is in what part of the body? A: Throat
Q: What is the Hindu Kush? A: Mountain range
Q: """Magic"" Johnson was a leading player in which sport?" A: Basketball
Q: """Massacre in Korea"", a 1951 expressionistic painting by Pablo Picasso which is seen as a criticism of American intervention in the Korean war is drawn from the painting ""The Third of May 1808"", which shows Napoleon's soldiers executing Spanish civilians, by whom?" A: Francisco Goya
Q: What was invented by Rene Laennec in the early 19th century? A: Stethoscope
Q: London Bridge, bought for US$2.5 million from the City of London when the bridge was replaced in 1968, crosses a 930ft (280m) long man-made canal in Lake Havasu City in which US state? A: Arizona
Q: What is the early morning or night prayer service in the Roman Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran and Eastern Orthodox churches, used in some Protestant denominations to describe morning services? A: Matins
Q: The head of state of Jersey and Guernsey, which are both Crown dependencies and not part of the United Kingdom, is Queen Elizabeth II. She rules there because she holds what title? A: Duke of Normandy
Q: Who was president of the USA at the outbreak of World War II? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: What is the name of the surface used to play a game of curling? A: Sheet
Q: "Who painted ""Portrait of Adele Bloch Bauer"", which sold at auction for $US135 million in 2006?" A: Gustav Klimt
Q: When was the North Atlantic Treaty which established NATO signed? A: 1949
Q: Artist David Hockney was born in what country? A: England
Q: "What role is played by Elizabeth Hurley in the 2000 film ""Bedazzled""?" A: The Devil
Q: What is the standard measure used in the oil production industry? A: Barrel
Q: Who is Joseph Alois Ratzinger? A: Pope Benedict XVI
Q: What was the capital of West Germany from 1945 to 1999? A: Bonn
Q: Which cricketer has scored the most first class centuries in history? A: Jack Hobbs
Q: Urticaria affects what part of the body? A: Skin
Q: What tax was current in ancient Athens, in Jerusalem more than 2,000 years ago, in Egypt, in Europe and England from time to time (leading in 1381 to Wat Tyler's rebellion), including Charles I's, Charles II's, and Margaret Thatcher's governments, in Canada and the USA, and in NZ among others? A: Poll Tax
Q: What is the largest city in the province of British Columbia, Canada? A: Vancouver
Q: What word is applied to a Muslim devotee, usually a monk or wandering mendicant? A: Dervish
Q: Which Roman goddess is the equivalent of the Greek goddess Aphrodite? A: Venus
Q: The now-extinct Elephant Bird, believed to have been 3 metres tall and weigh 500 kg, was believed to have inhabited what area? A: Madagascar
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Still Life"", on which the 1945 film ""Brief Encounter"" was based?" A: Noel Coward
Q: In September 2010, The Beach Boys allegedly threatened a lawsuit due to a line in which song by Katy Perry featuring Snoop Dogg? A: """California Gurls"""
Q: What street leads to the front of Buckingham Palace in London? A: The Mall
Q: In jazz, what kind of singing is vocal improvisation with nonsense syllables or without words at all, whereby singers have the ability to create the equivalent of an instrumental solo using their voice? A: Scat
Q: What musical instrument is Woody Allen known for playing? A: Clarinet
Q: Which musical by Elton John and Lee Hall, which revolves around a motherless boy who trades boxing gloves for ballet shoes and is based on a 2000 film, opened in London's West End in 2005? A: Billy Elliot the Musical
Q: Port Said is at the entrance to which canal? A: Suez
Q: "Who was the first to be quoted as saying ""There are three types of lies: lies, damned lies and statistics""?" A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: "What book introduced ""the Thought Police""?" A: 1984
Q: What is the fluid in which the human foetus grows? A: Amniotic fluid
Q: The Tuareg and the Berber inhabit which desert? A: Sahara
Q: Gregory Peck played attorney Sam Bowden in what 1962 film? A: Cape Fear
Q: Which country, between 1964 and 1973, became the most bombed country in the world? A: Laos
Q: The Australian species of what bird has the longest beak in the world? A: Pelican
Q: On a roulette wheel, what colour is the number 5? A: Red
Q: Which religion is most associated with kosher food? A: Judaism
Q: The Pilton Festival that started in 1970 and is held annually is now called what? A: Glastonbury Festival
Q: What religion is the Dalai Lama? A: Buddhist
Q: Lake Titicaca is in which mountain range? A: Andes
Q: What was the alliance of Eastern European nations, the counterpart of NATO, during the Cold War? A: Warsaw Pact
Q: "What kind of beverage is ""oolong""?" A: Tea
Q: On 3 July 1844, which bird became extinct when the last two were killed by hunters? A: Great Auk
Q: "In the 1989 film ""Batman"", the Joker revealed his real name, which was ?" A: Jack Napier
Q: """Wild geese"" was the name given to soldiers who fought as mercenaries in continental armies in the 16th to 18th centuries who were from which country?" A: Ireland
Q: What rock band played together for the first time in over 20 years at the London Live Eight Concert in 2005? A: Pink Floyd
Q: The Summer Olympic Games 2016 will be held where? A: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Q: What is the largest country by land area in Central America? A: Nicaragua
Q: "Where was ""the Bhopal disaster"" that took place at a pesticide plant owned and operated by Union Carbide (UCIL), when the plant released methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas and other toxins in December 1984, exposing over 500,000 people?" A: Madhya Pradesh, India
Q: What is Judge Judy's last name? A: Sheindlin
Q: "What musical term means ""an immediate reduction in pace""?" A: Ritenuto
Q: In 1954, in a television adaptation of a book by Ian Fleming, Barry Nelson was the first person to appear on a screen as which fictional character? A: James Bond
Q: In 1469, the crowns of the kingdoms of Castile and Aragon were united by the marriage of Isabella and Ferdinand. This was an important event in the history of which country? A: Spain
Q: The asteroid belt is a series of rocks that orbit the sun between Mars and which other planet? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the capital of Turkey and the country's second largest city? A: Ankara
Q: Where is the Gulf of Bothnia? A: Baltic Sea
Q: "The lead character in the TV series ""Lovejoy"", which was based on stories by John Grant (under the pen name Jonathan Gash), was an expert in what?" A: Antiques
Q: "A ""mufti"" is a legal expert in what religion?" A: Islam
Q: In 1978 George Moscone, the mayor of which city, and openly gay city supervisor Harvey Milk were assassinated by ex-supervisor Dan White? A: San Francisco
Q: What is the sum of the even numbers between 1 and 9? A: 20
Q: "The painting that has the words ""ceci n'est pas une pipe"" written on it, is by which artist?" A: Magritte
Q: What world leader surprisingly announced his resignation on 31 December 1999? A: Boris Yeltsin
Q: What was Victoria Beckham's nickname when she was in the Spice Girls? A: Posh
Q: Which term was coined by the US computer scientist Grace Hopper in 1945? A: Bug
Q: Kanukai Jackson represented England at the 2002 Commonwealth Games at what sport? A: Gymnastics
Q: In November 1963, a place called Dealey Plaza become famous for what event? A: The assassination of John F Kennedy
Q: Vientiane is the capital of which country? A: Laos
Q: Artists Chuck Close, Henri-Edmond Cross, John Roy, Georges-Pierre Seurat, Paul Signac, Maximilien Luce and Vincent van Gogh painted in what style? A: Pointillism
Q: "What does the SI unit ""Newton"" measure?" A: Force
Q: "Who directed the 2005 film ""Munich""?" A: Steven Spielberg
Q: Which British boxer lost the heavyweight title in 1972? A: Ken Buchanan
Q: "What was the setting for the 1960s children's TV adventure series ""Daktari""?" A: East Africa
Q: Which country occupies the islands called Euboea, Kefalonia, Khos, Zakynthos, Thassos, Lefkada, Karpathos and Kythira? A: Greece
Q: "The satellite ""Aryabhata"", launched on 19 April 1975, to conduct experiments in X-ray astronomy, aeronomics, and solar physics, was built by which country?" A: India
Q: "Which inn that stood on the east side of Borough High Street in Southwark accommodated pilgrims headed on annual pilgrimage to the Shrine of Thomas Beckett in Canterbury Cathedral, and is mentioned in Geoffrey Chaucer's ""The Canterbury Tales""?" A: The Tabard
Q: In 1958, the Dodgers baseball team moved to Los Angeles from where? A: Brooklyn, New York
Q: At which city was Kai Tak airport replaced by Chek Lap Kok in 1998? A: Hong Kong
Q: On the buttons of a tape, VCR or DVD player, what does the sign in the shape of a single right pointing arrow mean? A: Play
Q: Edward Elgar's March no 1 in D contains the tune of what song? A: Land of Hope and Glory
Q: "In the musical ""West Side Story"", where have about half of the characters (including ""Maria"" and her family) emigrated from?" A: Puerto Rico
Q: Who is the protagonist in the Tomb Raider series of computer games? A: Lara Croft
Q: "Who is the author of the fiction books ""Lace"" (published in 1982), ""Lace 2"" (1985), ""Savages"" (1987), ""Crimson"" (1992), ""Tiger Eyes"" (1994), ""Revenge of Mimi Quinn"" (1998) and ""The Amazing Umbrella Shop"" (1990)?" A: Shirley Conran
Q: "What was the first name of the ""Rambo"" character created by Sylvester Stallone?" A: John
Q: What German engineer led the design teams for the V2 rocket that blitzed London and the Saturn V rocket for the US space programme? A: Werner von Braun
Q: The first playoff tiebreaker in Major League Baseball history was held on 1 & 3 October 1946, a best-of-three playoff to decide the winner of the MLB National League (NL) conference, between which 2 teams? A: St. Louis Cardinals and Brooklyn Dodgers
Q: What is the largest moon of Pluto? A: Charon
Q: "In the British TV series ""Til Death Do Us Part"", who played Alf Garnett's wife?" A: Dandy Nichols
Q: "What type of drink is ""scrumpy""?" A: Cider
Q: What are Gray's Inn, Lincoln's Inn, The Inner Temple and The Middle Temple, all in London? A: Inns of Court
Q: Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall are mentioned in what 1982 hit song? A: """Key Largo"" by Bertie Higgins"
Q: "Who plays Mark Sloan in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Patrick Dempsey
Q: The North Atlantic Treaty was signed in Washington, D.C. in 1949 by Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, UK, US, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Canada and which other country? A: Iceland
Q: Which artist was the architect for the dome of St Peter's Basilica, Rome? A: Michelangelo
Q: The Super Bowl, the championship game of the premier association of professional American football, was first held in what year? A: 1967
Q: Marie Curie named which element in homage to her homeland? A: Polonium
Q: Which US president declared the first national Mother's Day in the USA? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: What device enables a player to use the same chord shapes on a guitar to be played a number of frets higher to raise the key uniformly? A: Capo
Q: In climbing and mountaineering, where are crampons worn? A: Feet
Q: Dr Kay Scarpetta was invented by which author? A: Patricia Cornwell
Q: The autonomous region of Catalonia is in which country? A: Spain
Q: The Abominable Snowman, a mythological ape-like cryptid said to inhabit the Himalayan region of Nepal and Tibet, is also known as what? A: Yeti
Q: Magnus Carlsen, at the age of 18, became the world's youngest what? A: Chess champion
Q: "A song written by Chuck Berry is ""Roll Over ... "" who?" A: Beethoven
Q: What district in the south of Rio de Janeiro has a beach 4km long? A: Copacabana
Q: What is the chemical symbol for tin? A: Sn
Q: What are dehydrated to make raisins? A: Grapes
Q: "Who worked on the film scripts for ""Barbarella"", ""Dr Strangelove "", ""Easy Rider"", ""Candy"" and ""The Magic Christian""?" A: Terry Southern
Q: Sirhan Sirhan was convicted of the assassination of whom? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: "What is ""mightier than the sword"" in the old saying?" A: Pen
Q: Die Dreigroschenoper (The Threepenny Opera) by Kurt Weill was based on which work? A: The Beggars Opera
Q: What is the capital of Namibia? A: Windhoek
Q: Before 1949, by what name was Thailand known? A: Siam
Q: Which comic strip has the characters Violet Gray, Linus, Rerun and Lucy van Pelt, Schroeder, Marcie, Franklin and Frieda? A: Charlie Brown
Q: On 24 July 2010 at least 19 people are killed and 100 others injured in a stampede at which music festival in Duisburg, Germany? A: Love Parade
Q: Which constellation, that lies between Taurus to the west and the dim Cancer to the east, with Auriga and Lynx to the north and Monoceros and Canis Minor to the south, is associated with the myth of Castor and Pollux, collectively known as the Dioscuri? A: Gemini
Q: In the SI system, what is the basic unit for the measurement of electric current? A: Ampere
Q: The words of the national anthem for which country were written by Francis Scott Key? A: USA
Q: What was Merlin's position at the court of King Arthur? A: Wizard
Q: In depictions of the Hindu God Rama, he is famously holding what in his right hand? A: Bow and arrow
Q: Christiaan Huygens has been credited with inventing what in the 1650s? A: Pendulum clock
Q: """Pulmonary"" refers to which organ?" A: Lungs
Q: Who of these is supposedly buried in the town of Santiago de Compostela, in North Western Spain? A: St James
Q: "Spinoff TV series from ""Beverly Hills, 90210"" included ""Melrose Place"", ""90210"" and which other?" A: Models Inc
Q: Which organisation was involved in a scandal in the 1980s, concerning the 1982 $3.5 billion collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, has been the subject of a US government report which accused it of funding the Solidarity Polish trade-union and the Contras, and managing US covert funds, was reported in 2009 of being investigated for money laundering transactions worth 180 million (US$ 218 million) and in September 2010 came under investigation for other money laundering charges? A: The Institute for Works of Religion
Q: Who won the Tour de France every year from 1991 to 1995? A: Miguel Indurain
Q: Macadamia is a type of what? A: Nut
Q: Who, after a distinguished cricketing career, in his last ever test match innings was bowled out for a duck by Eric Hollies? A: Don Bradman
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1975 film ""The Man Who Fell to Earth""?" A: David Bowie
Q: In which famous piece of music by Tchaikovsky does the French national anthem appear? A: 1812 Overture
Q: "Who wrote the music for the ballet ""Swan Lake""?" A: Tchaikovsky
Q: What is a specific learning disability involving innate difficulty in learning or comprehending mathematics, similar to dyslexia? A: Dyscalculia
Q: The early kings of Scotland are buried on which island? A: Iona
Q: Kerkyra is what the locals call what island? A: Corfu
Q: What region lies mainly in the Dinaric Alps, ranging to the southern borders of the Pannonian plain, with the rivers Sava and Drina marking its northern and eastern borders? A: Bosnia
Q: The word plagiarism comes from the Latin word meaning what? A: Kidnapping
Q: "What was the subtitle of the 1904 play ""Peter Pan"" by J M Barrie?" A: The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up
Q: Before 2012 when was the most recent time the Summer Olympics were held in London, UK? A: 1948
Q: Which playwright wrote the plays that won the Tony Award for Best Play in 1963 & 2002 and the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1967, 1975 & 1994, and gained nominations for Tony Award for Best Play in 1964, 1965, 1967 & 1975, Tony Award for Best Author of a Play in 1965, the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 2001 & 2003 and a Tony Award for Best Revival of a Play in 2005? A: Edward Albee
Q: How many players per side are allowed on the field in a game of rugby league? A: 13
Q: Who was sent by the African Association in 1795 to find the source of the River Niger? A: Mungo Park
Q: The French and what other nation sent colonists to New Zealand in the 1830s? A: Great Britain
Q: "What TV series contained the frequent line ""Let's be careful out there""?" A: Hill Street Blues
Q: What is the name of the test cricket venue in Leeds, England? A: Headingley
Q: How many US states do not border another US state? A: 2
Q: "Francis Drake captained the ship ""Revenge"" during naval engagements concerning what?" A: The Spanish Armada
Q: What is the next in this series: 2000, Me, XP, Vista ... A: 7
Q: What caused Richard I of England to be out of the country between 1190 and 1194, when his younger brother John tried to take control? A: The Third Crusade
Q: "Where was ""the Maccabiah bridge collapse"", the failure of a pedestrian bridge over the Yarkon River on 14 July 1997 which killed 4 and injured 60?" A: Tel Aviv, Israel
Q: What is the name of the lighthouse off the coast of Angus at the mouth of the Firth of Tay, which is also called Bell Rock? A: Inchcape
Q: "What was the stage name of Brenda Mae Tarpley, an American singer of rockabilly, pop and country music who had 37 US chart hits during the 1960s (a number surpassed only by Elvis Presley, The Beatles, Ray Charles and Connie Francis) and was best known for her 1960 hit ""I'm Sorry""?" A: Brenda Lee
Q: After 2007, which boat class was not run as a World Rowing Championship event? A: Coxed fours
Q: Stories about what fictional heroes were written under the pen name of Franklin W Dixon? A: The Hardy Boys
Q: During World War II, Operation Sealion was the codename for the invasion of which area? A: Britain
Q: What board game is played with 24 pieces on a board marked with 64 squares, where the object is to capture an enemy piece by passing over it to a vacant square behind it? A: Draughts
Q: The last element to be discovered in nature, rather than synthesized, was discovered In 1939. What was it? A: Francium
Q: """Nimrod"" is a piece of music written by Edward Elgar as part of what larger work?" A: The Enigma Variations
Q: In which country did a suicide bombing take place in Taksim Square on 31 October 2010, resulting in at least 32 injuries, 15 of whom were police officers? A: Istanbul
Q: What country has borders with Libya, Sudan and Israel? A: Egypt
Q: With which country is the bouzouki most associated? A: Greece
Q: According to Greek mythology, what was the deepest part of hell? A: Tartarus
Q: "The word ""Droogies"" was coined in which novel, made into a film directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick in 1971?" A: A Clockwork Orange
Q: What is the word for a male turkey? A: Tom
Q: "What is the main ingredient in ""yellowcake""?" A: Uranium
Q: """Whispering"" Ted Lowe was associated with which sport?" A: Snooker
Q: Who portrays the fictional character Captain Jack Sparrow on film? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Who was Indiana Jones' 11 year old Chinese sidekick in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom? A: Short Round
Q: What is a word game where paragraphs are written in which a particular letter or group of letters is omitted? A: Lipogram
Q: The Ishtar Gate, constructed around 575BC by order of King Nebuchadnezzar II, was a gate to which city? A: Babylon
Q: What are the epic tales associated with Iceland traditionally called? A: Sagas
Q: Which famous English model of the 1960s was once romantically linked to '60s photographer David Bailey and actor Terence Stamp, but married photographer Michael Cox, with whom she runs a small hotel in Penzance, Cornwall? A: Jean Shrimpton
Q: Ashkenazic and Sephardic are the two divisions of what cultire? A: Jewish
Q: Which member of the UK Parliament and member of the IRA died on hunger strike while in prison at The Maze near Belfast in 1981? A: Bobby Sands
Q: "Who released an album in 2005 called ""Confessions on a Dance Floor""?" A: Madonna
Q: "Who painted ""Red Car Crash"" as a part of his 196263 ""Death and Disaster"" series?" A: Andy Warhol
Q: Which part of the cardamom plant is used as a spice? A: Seed
Q: What is the currency used in Egypt, Syria and Lebanon? A: Pound
Q: Traditionally, in rugby, what number appears on the jersey of the fullback? A: 15
Q: Vemont, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire & Maine are collectively known as what? A: New England
Q: What is boiled in water to form gelatine? A: Collagen
Q: Compared to playing the string open, placing a finger behind the 12th fret on a guitar finger board raises the note by how much? A: An octave
Q: Neophobia is the fear of what? A: New things
Q: What is a voluntary association of mainly former British colonies that co-operate with common values and goals that include the promotion of democracy, human rights, good governance, the rule of law, individual liberty, egalitarianism, free trade, multilateralism and world peace? A: Commonwealth of Nations
Q: Until 1997, the Group of Eight (G8), a forum for powerful governments, was the G7. Which country was the last to join, making it G8? A: Russia
Q: Who is the engineer and inventor of the noise reduction system known as Dolby NR and a co-inventor of video tape recording while at Ampex? A: Ray Dolby
Q: Which Indonesian volcano erupted in October / November 2010, forcing 70,000 people from their homes? A: Mount Merapi
Q: What did British comedian Benny Hill use as his signature tune? A: Yakkety Sax
Q: Ranidaphobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Frogs
Q: "Which of king of England was overthrown in the ""Glorious Revolution"" that occurred in Britain in 1688?" A: James II
Q: Who of these was a US senator for the state of New York from 2000 to 2008? A: Hilary Clinton
Q: "The Oregon Treaty of 1846, which divided ""the Oregon Country"" along the 49th parallel, gave the USA land which later became parts of Montana and Wyoming, and the states of Washington, Oregon and which other?" A: Idaho
Q: "Which singer had a ""wardrobe malfunction"" at the half time show at the 2004 Super Bowl?" A: Janet Jackson
Q: Tianhe-1A, the supercomputer at the National Supercomputer Center in Tianjin, China which in October 2010 became the world's fastest supercomputer, uses what operating system? A: Linux
Q: Early in 2010, Norway's Magnus Carlsen, at 19 years old, became the youngest person to top the world ranking in what? A: Chess
Q: "Before it was changed to ""Washington D.C."" after his death, what had George Washington named Washington D.C.?" A: Federal City
Q: "What is the name of the fictional character in the land of Oz created by L. Frank Baum as ""the Good Witch of the South"" who, in the 1939 film version of ""The Wizard of Oz"" was called ""the Good Witch of the North""?" A: Glinda
Q: Where are the Huygens Gap and the Maxwell Gap? A: Saturn
Q: What is the name of the stretch of water between India and Sri Lanka? A: Palk Strait
Q: Who did Barbie break up with in February 2004? A: Ken
Q: "Who did ""True Blood"" star Anna Paquin marry on 21 August 2010?" A: Stephen Moyer
Q: Which coach of the Notre Dame american football team was killed in a plane crash in 1931? A: Knute Rockne
Q: During World War I, US president Woodrow Wilson raised an army through conscription and gave total command to whom? A: General John J. Pershing
Q: Mescaline comes from what plant? A: Cactus
Q: In the 20th century what year did Estonia first declare independence? A: 1918
Q: What did Elvis Presley tell people not to step on in 1956? A: Blue suede shoes
Q: "What type of speech includes the words ""for"", ""and"", ""nor"", ""but"", ""or"", ""yet"", and ""so""?" A: Conjunction
Q: "The plot of the book and films entitled ""The Day of the Jackal"" concerns an attempt to kill the leader of which nation?" A: France
Q: Jim Reeves, Marty Robbins and Dolly Parton are associated with what style of music? A: Country
Q: What was the first name of Madame Tussaud, who founded a wax museum in London? A: Marie
Q: The city of Odessa is on which sea? A: Black Sea
Q: What was the name of the English law court, subsequently abolished in 1641, that had a mandate from Henry VII to deal with nobles who were too powerful to be punished by ordinary courts? A: Star Chamber
Q: What former Grand Prix motorcycle racer from New Zealand published his autobiography in late 2010? A: Graeme Crosby
Q: What Louisiana Creole dish is traditionally made with meats, vegetables, stock and rice? A: Jambalaya
Q: What is the name for the five long bones in the foot that are numbered from the big toe (the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth) and are analogous to the metacarpal bones of the hand? A: Metatarsals
Q: What was the name of the line of fortification that ran across Italy during World War II from just north of where the Garigliano River flows into the Tyrrhenian Sea in the west, through the Apennine Mountains to the mouth of the Sangro River on the Adriatic coast in the east via Monte Cassino and Monte Cairo? A: Gustav Line
Q: Chester Gould created which comic character, which first appeared in 1931? A: Dick Tracy
Q: What name is given to 7 mathematics problems stated by the Clay Mathematics Institute in 2000, for which a US$1,000,000 prize will be awarded for a correct solution to any of them? A: The Millennium Prize Problems
Q: With what instrument are Charlie Christian, Les Paul, Tiny Grimes, Barney Kessel, Herb Ellis, Jimmy Raney, Tal Farlow, Kenny Burrell, Grant Green, Wes Montgomery, and Jim Hall associated? A: Guitar
Q: What land, a British colony for 155 years, and occupied by Japan briefly in WW II, was ceded to the People's Republic of China in 1997? A: Hong Kong
Q: How many sports were contested at the Summer Paralympics in 2012? A: 20
Q: What was the Giotto spacecraft sent to investigate in 1985? A: Halley's comet
Q: What is the largest city in the province of New Brunswick, Canada? A: Saint John
Q: What is the name of the Jewish New Year festival? A: Rosh Hashanah
Q: Which 1959 film starring Charlton Heston won a record 11 Academy Awards? A: Ben Hur
Q: What was the native language of Albert Einstein? A: German
Q: Which member country of the Council of Europe has the smallest population? A: San Marino
Q: "An ""imam"" is from which religion?" A: Islam
Q: """Devil"" was the pet wolf of which comic strip character?" A: The Phantom
Q: "Who played the role of Howard Hughes in the 2004 film ""The Aviator""?" A: Leonardo DiCaprio
Q: Which cartoon series relies on the voices of Dan Castellaneta, Julie Kavner, Nancy Cartwright, Yeardley Smith, Hank Azaria & Harry Shearer? A: The Simpsons
Q: Who succeeded Abraham Lincoln as US president in 1865? A: Andrew Johnson
Q: What US TV series concerned a New Jersey crime family? A: The Sopranos
Q: What chemical element with atomic number 55 is a soft, silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28 C (83 F), and one of only five metals that are liquid at or near room temperature? A: Caesium
Q: What colour connects 29 October 1929, 19 October 1987 and 22 November 1963? A: Black
Q: "At the start of ""Scream 2"", what was the name of the film that was shown about the ""Woodsboro Murders""?" A: Stab
Q: In the Bible's book of Genesis, which of Jacob's sons was sold into slavery by his brothers? A: Joseph
Q: Which planet is named after the Greek god of the sky? A: Uranus
Q: When was the ICC, official base in The Hague in the Netherlands, established? A: 2002
Q: "The symptoms for which poisoning include seizures, a ""sawhorse"" stance, rigid extension of all four limbs and respiratory paralysis?" A: Strychnine
Q: "In the film ""Batman Forever"", released in 1995, who played the villain called ""The Riddler""?" A: Jim Carrey
Q: "Early raids by British Commando units between March 1941 and April 1943, Operations ""Claymore"", ""Anklet"", ""Archery"", ""Musketoon"" and ""Checkmate"", destroyed fish-oil factories, petrol dumps, sank ships, damaged factories and warehouses, resulted in permanent closure of a hydroelectric power plant and an aluminium plant, and captured German troops, encryption equipment and codebooks; where were they carried out?" A: Norway
Q: Where were the 2012 Paralympics held? A: London, UK
Q: Leaders in a cub scout pack are named after the characters in which book? A: """The Jungle Book"" by Rudyard Kipling"
Q: "Whose famous painting, ""The Potato Eaters"", is of five peasants sitting down to dinner?" A: Vincent Van Gogh
Q: The Volta River flows from central Ghana to where? A: Gulf of Guinea
Q: What is the name of a family of satellites launched since 1995 and operated by Eutelsat, located at 13E over the Equator (orbital position) with a transmitting footprint over Europe, North Africa and the Middle East? A: Hot Bird
Q: By what name is William Thomson better known? A: Lord Kelvin
Q: "The first band-specific game in the ""Rock Band"" series of music video games, where players simulate playing music using controllers shaped like musical instruments was ""The Beatles: Rock Band"". Who was the subject of the next one to be released?" A: Green Day
Q: The blend of tea known as Earl Grey was named after someone in what profession? A: British Prime Minister
Q: In 1963, US President Kennedy sanctioned a coup d'tat in which country to overthrow Ngo Dinh Diem, the Roman Catholic President, by his own army generals? A: South Vietnam
Q: "In motor racing, what are ""slicks""?" A: Tyres
Q: Who sang, backed by U2, as the first song in the Live 8 concert in Hyde Park, London, in 2005? A: Paul McCartney
Q: """Rawhide"" was played to a bar full of hostile country music fans in which film?" A: The Blues Brothers
Q: Which country declared war on Mexico on 13 May 1846? A: USA
Q: In what month is Thanksgiving in the USA ? A: November
Q: "When was the period of English history known as ""The Anarchy"" or ""The Nineteen-Year Winter""?" A: 12th century
Q: What is a sleep disorder characterized by pauses in breathing during sleep? A: Sleep apnoea
Q: Which player made a comeback to international tennis in 2006 after 4 years? A: Martina Hingis
Q: "The Jake Gaudaur Veterans' Trophy, presented annually to the Canadian Football League player ""who best demonstrates the attributes of Canada's veterans in times of war, peace and military conflict"", was first awarded in 2010 to Mike McCullough who played for which team?" A: Saskatchewan Roughriders
Q: Elizabeth II is the Queen regnant of how many independent sovereign states known informally as the Commonwealth realms, for which she holds each crown separately and equally in a shared monarchy? A: 16
Q: "In the fairy tale ""Sleeping Beauty"", who kissed the princess to wake her up?" A: Handsome Prince
Q: "The modern British period of history called ""The Winter of Discontent"" began when?" A: 1978
Q: Which part of the body would be treated if the patient was suffering from lumbago? A: Back
Q: "Which 18th century self-taught Liverpudlian, who studied human anatomy and spent 18 months dissecting horses, is best known for his paintings of horses (such as ""Whistlejacket""), sometimes accompanied by hounds, and of animals such as lions, tigers, giraffes, monkeys, and rhinoceroses?" A: George Stubbs
Q: In basketball, what is the offence of running with the ball called? A: Travelling
Q: Before she was a Member of Parliament, what was Margaret Thatcher's occupation? A: Barrister
Q: What was Beethoven's last symphony? A: 9th
Q: What is a curling tournament called? A: Bonspiel
Q: What arcade game, based on the concept of eating, was developed primarily by Tru Iwatani over the course of a year in 1979/80, with a nine-man team? A: Pac-Man
Q: What Christian church observes The Sabbath on Saturday? A: The Seventh Day Adventist Church
Q: "Whose alter egos have included Ziggy Stardust, Aladdin Sane and ""The Thin Whte Duke""?" A: David Bowie
Q: "What region covers most of the ""toe"" of ""the boot of Italy""?" A: Calabria
Q: Bigfoot, a supposedly large, hairy, bipedal humanoid which lives in forests in the Northwest of North America, is also known as what? A: Sasquatch
Q: What landlocked, mountainous, Central Asian country is bordered by Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and the People's Republic of China? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: "In a 1980 episode of the TV series ""Dallas"", what character was Sue Ellen's scheming sister, who shot J.R. after having an affair with him?" A: Kristin Shepard
Q: The 50.5 km Channel Tunnel, built under the English Channel or, in France, La Manche, to link the UK and France with road and rail access was finally opened in 1994. When was the first official Anglo-French protocol established to create the railway aspect of the link? A: 1876
Q: What term is used almost exclusively to describe a self-contained piece for one voice usually with orchestral accompaniment, commonly in opera, although they also form movements of oratorios and cantatas? A: Aria
Q: What is the common name of the chemical NH3, which is found in cleaning products? A: Ammonia
Q: What award is the equivalent of the Oscars for British industries involved in film, television, video games and forms of animation? A: BAFTAs
Q: Key Largo, Key West, Plantation Key and Big Pine Key are islands of the coast of are part of which US state? A: Florida
Q: "Which British actor made his film debut in Peter Ustinov's film adaptation of ""Billy Budd"" (1962) and went on to make a number of films, including ""The Collector"" (1965), ""Far From The Madding Crowd"" (1967), ""Poor Cow"" (1967), ""Wall Street"" (1987), ""The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert"" (1994), ""Bowfinger"" (1999), ""My Boss's Daughter"" (2003) and ""Elektra"" (2005)?" A: Terence Stamp
Q: Which bank, which had opened in 1762 (and was the oldest merchant bank in London) collapsed in 1995 after one of the bank's employees lost 827 million ($1.3 billion) speculating primarily on futures contracts? A: Barings Bank
Q: What was the name of the policy making body of the USSR before it broke up? A: Politburo
Q: What is Blackjack called in France? A: Vingt-et-un
Q: In the USA, what is the minimum age that someone can become a senator? A: 30
Q: """Summer of the Seventeenth Doll"", a 1955 play by Ray Lawler, is set in Carlton, a suburb of what city?" A: Melbourne, Australia
Q: Seoul is the capital of which country? A: South Korea
Q: Who beat Muhammad Ali in his last professional fight in 1982? A: Trevor Berbick
Q: """Black Cherry"" and ""Supernature"" are albums by which band?" A: Goldfrapp
Q: What fluid results from lachrymation? A: Tears
Q: What was invented by George de Mestral in 1957? A: Velcro
Q: In which country is the city of Derry? A: Northern Ireland
Q: Who watched his daughter win her first professional boxing bout in October 1999? A: Muhammad Ali
Q: In 1794 in Pennsylvania, USA, more than 500 armed men attacked the fortified home of tax inspector General John Neville because of an excise tax on what product? A: Whiskey
Q: "Who wrote the poem called ""The New Colossus"" that is inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty?" A: Emma Lazarus
Q: In France, what is the SNCF? A: Railway network
Q: "The ""Curse of the Bambino"" was thought to have struck what baseball team until they won the World Series in 2004?" A: Boston Red Sox
Q: "For the type of bet called a ""Quinella"", how many horses are picked?" A: 2
Q: "Which cable suspension road bridge, known as ""Galloping Gertie"", was completely destroyed due to ""aeroelastic flutter"" on 7 November 1940?" A: Tacoma Narrows Bridge
Q: Joseph Pulitzer, founder of the Pulitzer Prizes, made his fortune from what? A: Newspapers
Q: The first father and son win at the Oscars was in 1948 when John Huston won the award for Directing and for Writing Adapted Screenplay and his father Walter Huston won the award for Best Supporting Actor. Which film had they worked on together to win these awards? A: The Treasure of the Sierra Madre
Q: What is the term used in wine making for the catalyst function that turns grape juice into an alcoholic beverage when yeast interacts with sugars in the juice to create ethanol and carbon dioxide? A: Fermentation
Q: "Who played Alan's young son, Jake, in the TV series ""Two and a Half Men""?" A: Angus T. Jones
Q: Comedian Ernie Wise was the subject of a publicity campaign launched in the UK on 1 January 1985 as being the first person in the UK to use what? A: Mobile phone
Q: In which city was Andre Agassi born? A: Las Vegas
Q: How many faces are there on a cube? A: 6
Q: What war was waged 1852-1856, one side being an alliance between the Ottoman Empire, UK, France, and Sardinia? A: The Crimean War
Q: In Greek mythology, what was the name for the deepest part of hell, for those who had committed really bad crimes? A: Tartarus
Q: "Who married Taylor Hackford (the director of ""White Nights"", in which she appeared), her partner since 1986, on 31 December 1997?" A: Helen Mirren
Q: "The exterior of which real Boston pub was used in the TV programme ""Cheers"" in the 1980s?" A: Bull & Finch
Q: What sport is played by two teams of players in a space 60 feet by 40 feet? A: Basketball
Q: What device measures its the proper acceleration relative to freefall, and is increasingly used in portable electronic devices and video game controllers to detect the orientation of the device or provide game input? A: Accelerometer
Q: In Greek mythology, which horned and hoofed being was the god of shepherds, pastures, and fertility? A: Pan
Q: In 1635 Robert Hooke developed what? A: The law of elasticity
Q: David LaChapelle is a leading figure in what activity? A: Photography
Q: Mickey Mantle was a star of which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Traditionally, a magician pulls what out of a hat? A: Rabbit
Q: Fashion designer Ozwald Boateng specialises in what? A: Suits
Q: In English mythology, who were Galligantus and Bunderbore? A: Giants
Q: Which American singer, actress, songwriter and author who was born Cherilyn Sarkisian has won an Academy Award, a Grammy Award, an Emmy Award and three Golden Globe Awards? A: Cher
Q: What branch of anthropology compares and analyses the origins, distribution, technology, religion, language, and social structure of the ethnic, racial, and/or national divisions of humanity? A: Ethnology
Q: Who designed both the obverse and reverse of the twenty-dollar gold coin, or double eagle, produced by the US Mint from 1907 to 1933? A: Augustus Saint-Gaudens
Q: Which 1942 film starring Tim Holt, Joseph Cotton, Ray Collins, Agnes Moorehead, Dolores Costello and Richard Bennett was adapted by Orson Welles from a novel by Booth Tarkington? A: The Magnificent Ambersons
Q: What is the Chinese name for the Yellow River? A: Huang Ho
Q: What is a Thompson seedless? A: Grape
Q: In central and northern Italy, the Guelphs, who supported the Pope, and Ghibellines, who supported the Holy Roman Emperor, became a metaphor for rivalry between individual families and cities. When was this? A: 12th and 13th centuries
Q: On the Jewish calendar, what is Rosh Hashanah? A: New Year
Q: Tamerlane was a 14th-century conqueror of Western, South and Central Asia, founder of which empire? A: The Timurid Empire
Q: According to Charlotte Bront, who married Jane Eyre? A: Mr Rochester
Q: What is Mexico's largest commercial port? A: Manzanillo
Q: "Sliced bread, advertised as ""the greatest forward step in the baking industry since bread was wrapped"", was first sold when?" A: 1928
Q: What does the parotid gland produce? A: Saliva
Q: What name is given to a person or animal with a form of hypopigmentary congenital disorder, characterized by a lack of melanin pigment in the eyes, skin and hair? A: Albino
Q: Who was the last monarch in the recent reunified kingdom of Italy? A: Umberto II
Q: "Who wrote the opera ""Pagliacci""?" A: Leoncavallo
Q: What is the name of the Hobbit who carries the ring to Mordor to be destroyed? A: Frodo
Q: The era of political liberalisation in Czechoslovakia in 1968 was called what? A: Prague Spring
Q: The Wash is an English estuary which opens to which body of water? A: North Sea
Q: What is the Hebrew word for the holocaust? A: Shoah
Q: According to Arthurian legend, who was the father of Galahad? A: Lancelot
Q: The mandrill is the word's largest what? A: Monkey
Q: Who are Anne Valerie Hash, Stephanie Rolland, Alexis Mabille, Rebecca Taylor, Marc Jacobs and John Galliano? A: Fashion designers
Q: What name is given to a general practitioner's business? A: Practice
Q: "Who played Rick, the self-proclaimed anarchist who writes poetry and calls himself ""The People's Poet"" in the UK TV series ""The Young Ones""?" A: Rik Mayall
Q: The national team of the Iroquois League was admitted to the international federation for what sport in 1990 and competes internationally, the only native American/First Nations team to do so? A: Lacrosse
Q: Which ancient people with a conferacy of 5 cities (Ekron, Ashdod, Gath, Askalon and Gaza) came into conflict with Israel under Samson, Samuel and David? A: Philistines
Q: Who is acknowledged as the founder of Singapore as a trading post and European settlement in 1819? A: Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles
Q: "Johnny Weissmuller, the star of 12 ""Tarzan"" films between 1932 and 1948, won 5 Olympic gold medals in the 1920s in what sport?" A: Swimming
Q: What was the first satellite put into orbit by the USA? A: Explorer
Q: Which BBC TV programme of 4 series featured Rowan Atkinson, Pamela Stephenson, Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones, with Chris Langham in the first series? A: Not the Nine O'Clock News
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1970s TV series ""McCloud"", about a cowboy policeman working in New York?" A: Dennis Weaver
Q: The French National Assembly is housed in which building? A: Palais Bourbon
Q: "In what sport does one ""play the ball"" by rolling it back to a dummy half?" A: Rugby league
Q: What name is given to English comedies written from 1660 to 1700 which signalled the rebirth of English drama after public stage performances had been banned for 18 years? A: Restoration comedy
Q: The rumba was originally danced where? A: Cuba
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 3 points? A: Green
Q: Who would use an inkblot or Rorschach Test? A: Psychologist
Q: What is a nickname for Inverness? A: The Capital of the Highlands
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 1 point? A: Red
Q: Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821) installed as First Consul in France by 1800 and crowned Emperor of France 1804, was born where? A: Ajaccio, Corsica
Q: According to the Bible (and Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice), who had a coat with many colours? A: Joseph
Q: How many pockets does the modern pocket billiards table have? A: 6
Q: "Who played Mr Big in the TV series ""Sex and the City"" which first ran from 1998 to 2004, and the films ""Sex and the City"" (2008) and ""Sex and the City 2"" (2010)?" A: Chris Noth
Q: Where was the record for the longest professional match broken in 2010 when John Isner & Nicolas Mahut took 11 hours and 5 minutes over a three day period? A: Wimbledon
Q: The newest distinct territory in Canada, Nunavut, is contiguous or very nearly with how many other Canadian provinces or territories? A: 4
Q: "In the film ""Batman Forever"", released in 1995, who played the villain called ""Two Face""?" A: Tommy Lee Jones
Q: What was the first name of the political cartoonist known as Hogarth? A: William
Q: "What boxer was known as ""The Brown Bomber""?" A: Joe Louis
Q: "Who published their autobiography ""Life is a Rollercoaster"" in 2000?" A: Ronan Keating
Q: The Michael Phelps Foundation Golf Classic is an annual fundraiser for what? A: Growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles
Q: "What film was based on the book ""Q and A"" by Vikas Swarup?" A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Who has played, on film, John Dillinger, Sweeney Todd, J M Barrie, Jack Kerouac and Ed Wood? A: Johnny Depp
Q: Where is the Satsuma peninsula? A: Japan
Q: "Who is most likely to perform a ""pas de deux""?" A: Ballet dancer
Q: Which British golfer won the US Masters in 1989, 1990 & 1996? A: Nick Faldo
Q: On the western Christian calendar, what date is Twelfth Day? A: 6 January
Q: What sort of creature is a coypu? A: Rodent
Q: Where was the most recent volcanic eruption in the contiguous states of the USA? A: Washington
Q: What is the Roman military formation called the Testudo named after? A: Tortoise
Q: Who created the fictional detective Inspector Morse? A: Colin Dexter
Q: What is the name of the vertical groove above the upper lip that connects the top lip to the bottom of the nose? A: Philtrum
Q: The Harelle, a revolt that occurred in the French city of Rouen in 1382 followed by the Maillotins Revolt a few days later in Paris, and subsequently in Amiens, Dieppe, Falaise, Caen, Orleans, and Rheims during the Hundred Years War, was about what? A: Taxation
Q: Built in 1869, what type of ship is the Cutty Sark, which was put on public display in 1954 and is preserved in dry dock in Greenwich, London, UK? A: Clipper
Q: "In Ireland, what are ""Macgillycuddy's Reeks""?" A: Mountains
Q: In soccer, what coloured card is used to order a player off the field? A: Red
Q: What country is bordered by Macedonia, Greece, Montenegro and Kosovo? A: Albania
Q: Silkworms feed mainly on the leaves of what tree? A: Mulberry
Q: According to legend, what is needed to kill a werewolf? A: Silver bullet
Q: What country, part of the Ottoman Empire for 500 years as the provinces of Shkodra, Manastir and Yanya, proclaimed its independence on 28 November 1912, with Ismail Qemali as its first Prime Minister? A: Albania
Q: The Battle of Agincourt in 1415 was fought between which two countries? A: England and France
Q: "Which 19th century Austrian composer is famous for his waltzes such as ""The Blue Danube"" and ""Tales of the Vienna Woods"", and the operetta ""Die Fledermaus""?" A: Johann Strauss
Q: Which Canadian won the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest representing Switzerland? A: Celine Dion
Q: What alloy is made of 12% tin and 88% copper? A: Bronze
Q: Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 in F major (Op. 68) is known as what? A: The Pastoral Symphony
Q: Which state in the USA is equidistant from the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, containing both the geographic centre of the 48 contiguous USA states and the geodetic centre of North America? A: Kansas
Q: What links a type of footwear, the home of NATO, the best known military exploit of an early British Prime Minister, and the final days of freedom for a short Corsican commander? A: Brussels
Q: A game popular in a number of countries and known variously as Belote, Boeuf, Vida, and other names is played with what? A: Cards
Q: Aten, Ra, Amun and Ptah are what? A: Egyptian gods
Q: Where was the wedding of Charles, Prince of Wales and Camilla Parker Bowles, held? A: Windsor Guildhall
Q: Who identified and named alpha, beta and gamma radiation? A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: A style of intimate singing, developed and made popular in the first half of the 20th century by, among others, Bing Crosby, is called...? A: Crooning
Q: What is the capital of San Marino? A: The City of San Marino
Q: Which painter, who was born in Paris, France in 1848 and died in 1903 at Atuona, Hiva Oa, Marquesas Islands, French Polynesia, had lived at various times in Lima (Peru), Orlans (France), Copenhagen (Denmark), Panama, Saint Pierre (Martinique), Pont-Aven (France), Arles (France), Mataiea Village (Tahiti), Punaauia (Tahiti)? A: Paul Gauguin
Q: In August 2005 the robotic rover Spirit explored the surface of what? A: Mars
Q: What is the name of the government-owned corporation that provides the intercity passenger train service in the USA? A: Amtrak
Q: Which bank robber, whose exploits were sensationalized across the USA, was shot dead by police in an ambush outside the Biograph Theater in Chicago in 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: By what name was Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar better known? A: El Cid
Q: "According to Lewis Carroll in his novel ""Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There"" (1872), what was used to kill the Jabberwock?" A: A vorpal sword
Q: When the Olympics was resurrected in modern times, with a Summer Olympics in 1896, where were the games held? A: Athens, Greece
Q: What species of spiny lobster is probably the longest decapod crustacean in the world, growing to lengths of up to 60 centimetres (24 in)? A: Packhorse crayfish
Q: "In what country was the ""Red Cross"" founded?" A: Switzerland
Q: Which city, on the River Arno, is the capital of the region of Tuscany? A: Florence
Q: What is a common chronic neurological disorder characterised by recurrent unprovoked seizures, which are transient signs and/or symptoms of abnormal, excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain? A: Epilepsy
Q: What is the title of ex-Australian Prime Minister John Howard's autobiography, published in October 2010? A: Lazarus Rising
Q: Manchuria is the historical name given to a vast geographic region that falls mostly within what country? A: People's Republic of China
Q: """Now is the winter of our discontent"" is a line from which play?" A: Richard III
Q: What did Basutoland change its name to in 1966? A: Lesotho
Q: "In 1453, the Ottomans used a cannon called ""the Great Turkish Bombard"", which required an operating crew of 200 men and 70 oxen, and 10,000 men to transport it, during their siege of which city?" A: Constantinople
Q: "Who dies at the end of Shakespeare's tragedy ""Troilus and Cressida""?" A: Hector
Q: What is the only geometric shape that has infinite lines of symmetry? A: Circle
Q: At the 2010 Grammy Awards, who set a new record for the most wins by a female artist in one night, winning six? A: Beyonc
Q: What is a localised, blood-filled dilation of a blood vessel caused by disease or weakening of the vessel wall, which most commonly occurs in arteries at the base of the brain and in the aorta? A: Aneurism
Q: Who created the character of James Bond? A: Ian Fleming
Q: "In Rudyard Kipling's ""The Jungle Book"", what animal was Kaa?" A: Snake
Q: In what year did Sweden change its laws to allow a woman to inherit the throne, USSR stage its first rock festival, the border officially re-open between Spain and Gibraltar, Iceland democratically elect its first woman president, and the 10.14 mile (16.32km) long St Gotthard Road Tunnel open in Switzerland? A: 1980
Q: Held annually since 1923 which is the oldest active endurance race for sports cars? A: 24 Hours of Le Mans
Q: Which play by Arthur Miller used events from early US history to mirror Senator McCarthy's communist witch hunts in the 1950's? A: The Crucible
Q: What ocean borders the US state of California? A: Pacific
Q: What relation was Mary I of England to Elizabeth I? A: Half sister
Q: Speculation about the possibility of a southern land mass has been around for at least 2,000 years. When was the first recorded sighting of the Antarctic continent? A: 1820
Q: "What actor had the title role in the film ""The 40-Year-Old Virgin""?" A: Steve Carell
Q: "The parable of ""The Good Samaritan"" is in which Christian gospel?" A: Luke
Q: What was the first robotic probe to land on the Moon and return a sample to Earth? A: Luna 16
Q: "Who ""is watching you"" in George Orwell's book ""Nineteen Eighty-Four""?" A: Big Brother
Q: "Which boxer was known as the ""Manassa Mauler""?" A: Jack Dempsey
Q: In which city is the Imperial Spanish Riding School? A: Vienna
Q: What is the name of a Japanese dish consisting of noodles and broth? A: Ramen
Q: What is the best known work by German composer Carl Orff? A: Carmina Burana
Q: How many countries surround the Gulf of Mexico? A: 3
Q: What is the base for the common logarithm? A: 10
Q: What name was commonly used for the struggle that emerged after World War II between capitalism and communism that centred around the USSR & the USA and their partners, that lasted from about 1947 to 1991? A: The Cold War
Q: The New Stone Age was in what period? A: Neolithic
Q: Lacrosse, thought to have been played by at least 1100 AD and originally a ceremonial ritual with up to 1,000 people, currently (except in Box lacrosse) involves how many players? A: 20
Q: "What was the name of his backing band for Bill Haley on the record ""Rock Around the Clock"" that was released in 1954?" A: The Comets
Q: Which Apollo mission was the first to land on the moon? A: 11
Q: Which European country was twice, in 1892 and again in 1902, declared bankrupt? A: Portugal
Q: Where would one find a kibbutz? A: Israel
Q: The 2006 Open Golf Championship was played on which English course after a gap of almost 40 years? A: Hoylake
Q: Designer Karl Lagerfeld is famous for carrying what as a fashion accessory? A: Fan
Q: Who became president of the Islamic Repubic of Iran in August 2005? A: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Q: During which war were occupying Ottoman forces forced to withdraw from the town of Aqaba after a raid led by T. E. Lawrence and the Arab forces of Sharif Hussein? A: World War I
Q: What song was written by Bob Geldof in the aftermath of Brenda Ann Spencer's attempted massacre at an elementary school across the street from her house in San Diego, California, in 1979? A: I Don't Like Mondays
Q: Stocking stitch is used in what kind of activity? A: Knitting
Q: "Jane Horrocks plays which role in the TV series ""Absolutely Fabulous""?" A: Bubble
Q: What is another name for oedema? A: Dropsy
Q: Who escaped to the Isle of Skye, assisted by Flora MacDonald? A: Bonnie Prince Charlie
Q: Wakame and Kombu are what type of dishes? A: Seaweed
Q: London's Hatton Garden is the centre of trade in what? A: Jewellery
Q: Where do arboreal animals live? A: In trees
Q: In 1991, Warner Bros was picketed by a major national organisation over the use of which cartoon character? A: Porky Pig
Q: In 1848, the USA offered Spain $100 million, equivalent to around $2.45 billion in present day terms, for the purchase of which area of land? A: Cuba
Q: """Lusail"" is a new city in which country?" A: Qatar
Q: What 1983 Scottish film, starring Peter Riegert, Denis Lawson, Peter Capaldi and Burt Lancaster, was directed by Bill Forsyth with music by Mark Knopfler? A: Local Hero
Q: What is traditionally added to sulphur and saltpetre to make gunpowder? A: Charcoal
Q: In which country was mountaineer and explorer Edmund Hillary born? A: New Zealand
Q: What name was given to a series of violent events on 21 May 1979 in San Francisco, USA, sparked by the lenient sentencing (for voluntary manslaughter, the lightest possible) of Dan White for the assassinations of Mayor George Moscone and City Supervisor Harvey Milk, which led to changes in the city's official attitude to gays? A: White Night riots
Q: In November 2010, China announced that it would have its first what in 2011? A: Aircraft carrier
Q: The film The Philadelphia Story was made into which musical? A: High Society
Q: From 2010 to 2012 a series of major earthquakes devastated areas in the South Island of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Approximately how much of the water on earth is fresh water? A: 3%
Q: Sony introduced a product to the world market in 1979, and in October 2010 announced that they would cease selling it in Japan. What product was it? A: Walkman
Q: Mastitis affects what part of the body? A: Breast
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain at the end of World War I? A: David Lloyd George
Q: Emperor Pedro II, Deodoro da Fonseca, Floriano Peixoto, Manuel Vitorino Pereira and Prudente de Morais are names that crop up in the politics of what country in the 19th century? A: Brazil
Q: In 1938, after receiving the Nobel Prize, which physicist emigrated to the USA, protesting the oppressive regime of his homeland? A: Enrico Fermi
Q: In 1846, using mathematical predictions by French mathematician Urbain Le Verrier, German astronomer Johann Gottfried Galle became the first person to observe which planet? A: Neptune
Q: "The musical ""South Pacific"" was based on the book ""Hawaii"" by which author?" A: James A Michener
Q: What is Ireland's longest river? A: Shannon
Q: The Battle of Guadalcanal was between troops from the USA and what other country? A: Japan
Q: Who owned the flat at No.12, 9 Curzon Place, Shepherd Market, Mayfair where both Cass Elliot (Mama Cass) died in 1974 and Keith Moon died in 1978? A: Harry Nilsson
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 5 points? A: Blue
Q: "What sport, when it was first played in 1902, was called immoral and ""a monster that spreads its claws to all sides""?" A: Korfball
Q: What type of highly directional microphone, commonly used on television and film sets, in stadiums, and for field recording of wildlife, was invented by Fritz Sennheiser in the 1950s? A: Shotgun
Q: Where is the Temple of Confucius? A: Qufu
Q: In skeet shooting what are the discs made of? A: Clay
Q: Which battle was partly fought on Senlac Hill? A: Hastings
Q: What is the nationality of Mohammed Al Fayed, who sold the department store Harrods Knightsbridge to Qatar Holdings in 2010? A: Egyptian
Q: What was the tallest man-made structure before the completion of the Eiffel Tower? A: The Washington Monument
Q: What is the overall name for a branch of applied mathematics used to study behaviour in strategic situations, in which an individual's success in making choices depends on the choices of others? A: Game theory
Q: Between 1901 and 1909, Karl Landsteiner, Jan Jansk and William Moss worked on the classification of what? A: Blood groups
Q: "Who, at 95 years of age, supposedly waved the Union flag out of the window of her house in Frederick, Maryland while Stonewall Jackson's troops were passing, and is the subject of a 1864 poem: ""Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, But spare your country's flag,"" she said.""?" A: Barbara Fritchie
Q: Three shepherd children had sightings of the Virgin Mary on the 13th day of 6 consecutive months in 1917, starting on 13 May, near a town called Fatima, which is in what country? A: Portugal
Q: The US Stock Market crash known as Black Thursday happened on 24 October of what year? A: 1929
Q: An American singer-songwriter, inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1995 and given a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2005, was nicknamed what (which was also the name of their last album, in 1971)? A: Pearl
Q: Castoreum, which comes from a beaver, is used as an ingredient in what? A: Perfume
Q: What award is the television equivalent of the Oscars? A: Emmys
Q: Which US President was assassinated by Leon Frank Czolgosz at the Temple of Music at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York? A: William McKinley
Q: What was the common name of the Volkswagen Type 14, a 2+2 sold from 1955 to 1974 in coupe and convertible bodystyles, which was then the car most imported to the USA? A: Karmann Ghia
Q: Where are the Bismarck and Owen Stanley ranges? A: Papua-New Guinea
Q: "How many nouns are in the sentence ""My mother and father visited my sister in Wellington""?" A: 4
Q: What is the name for a raised block of the earth's crust thrown up between two faults? A: Horst
Q: "What is the occupation of the title character in ""Finnegan's Wake"" by James Joyce?" A: Hod carrier
Q: Until the introduction of the Euro on 1 January 2002, which country had the lira as its basic currency unit? A: Italy
Q: "The songs ""Aquarius"" and ""Good Morning Starshine"" are from which musical?" A: Hair
Q: What did Napoleon Bonaparte I establish in 1804, a measure which has had worldwide effect? A: Napoleonic Code
Q: Followers of which religion observe Ramadan? A: Islam
Q: Loihi Seamount, an active undersea volcano, is around 35 km (22 miles) off the southeast coast of where? A: Hawaii
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, whose lamb followed her to school? A: Mary
Q: Britain's largest suspension bridge crosses which river? A: Humber
Q: "Who wrote ""The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy""?" A: Douglas Adams
Q: Which film is the story of Willie Stark (played by Broderick Crawford) who starts with well meaning ambition to enter politics, is corrupted by power on his way to becoming a US state governor, and is assassinated? A: All The King's Men
Q: "The slang words ""cool"", ""groovy"", ""cat"", and ""chick"" came from the jazz music culture in what decades'?" A: 1920s and 1930s
Q: Leonard Nimoy and William Shatner starred in what TV series, first broadcast from 1966 to 1969? A: Star Trek
Q: What is the main material out of which a pool cue is usually made? A: Wood
Q: What is the name for the movement formed by John Nelson Darby and colleagues in the 1830s? A: Plymouth Brethren
Q: What association, currently of 27 members, holds over just 7% (in 2011) of the global population and generates approximately 20% of global GDP when thought of in terms of purchasing power parity? A: EU
Q: What type of rock is formed by the solidification of molten magma? A: Igneous
Q: Who was the subject of an unsuccessful kidnapping attempt on Pall Mall, London, on 20 March 1974 by Ian Ball, who shot Inspector James Beaton (a bodyguard), Alex Callender (chauffeur), Brian McConnell (a passerby who intervened) and Police Constable Michael Hills? A: Princess Anne
Q: Roland Berrill, an Australian barrister, and Dr. Lancelot Ware, a British scientist and lawyer, founded which international organsation in the UK in 1946? A: Mensa
Q: "Who played Ava Gardner in ""The Aviator""?" A: Kate Beckinsale
Q: """Easter Parade"" (1948), starring Judy Garland and Fred Astaire, featured songs by whom?" A: Irving Berlin
Q: When did Channel Four and the Welsh language channel SC4 first broadcast in the UK? A: November 1982
Q: What river, that passes through Turin, is the longest river in Italy? A: Po
Q: Who is thought to have first invented gunpowder? A: Chinese alchemists
Q: Where did Portuguese traders begin to settle in the 16th century, administering the area until 20 December 1999? A: Macau
Q: Blue Mountain Coffee, noted for its mild flavour and lack of bitterness (the beans of which are the flavour base of Tia Maria coffee liqueur), is grown in which country? A: Jamaica
Q: Ben Hogan, Sam Snead and Byron Nelson competed against each other in the 1940s in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Inspired by lucid dreaming and corporate espionage, it won Academy Awards for Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Cinematography. Which film is it? A: Inception
Q: Who created the character of the detective priest known as Father Brown? A: G K Chesterton
Q: In the Bible, who was the apostle chosen by the remaining 11 to replace Judas Iscariot following his betrayal of Jesus and suicide? A: Matthias
Q: What term is applied to a left-handed boxer? A: Southpaw
Q: Jews descended from the medieval Jewish communities along the Rhine in Germany from Alsace in the south to the Rhineland in the north are known as what? A: Ashkenazi
Q: A non-SI unit of radioactivity is named after ...? A: Marie and Pierre Curie
Q: The Gregorian calendar was named after what public figure at the time? A: Pope
Q: The formula for World Rally Championship cars changed for the 2011 championship, with engines limited to many litres? A: 1.6
Q: Who reigned as Pope of the Catholic Church and Sovereign of Vatican City from 26 August 1978 until his death 33 days later, the shortest reign in papal history since 1605? A: John Paul I
Q: Which Biblical temptress has inspired plays by Oscar Wilde and Nick Cave, operas by Richard Strauss and Antoine Mariotte, a ballet by Florent Schmitt, films, a sculpture by Tilman Riemenschneider and numerous paintings, including those by Sandro Botticelli, Titian, Caravaggio, Caracciolo, Gustave Dor, James Tissot, Aubrey Beardsley and Robert Henri? A: Salome
Q: "What was the title of a 1996 American disaster film starring Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton as ""storm chasers""?" A: Twister
Q: In snooker, what is the name of the shot where a ball goes into a pocket after hitting the opposite cushion? A: Double
Q: Of the 5 Presidents of Egypt since it was declared a republic in 1953 who has served the longest? A: Hosni Mubarak
Q: The volcano Vesuvius looks down on what? A: Bay of Naples
Q: "What number, on the Ph scale, represents ""neutral""?" A: 7
Q: Clara Petacci was the mistress of whom? A: Mussolini
Q: "Who is a central figure in Homer's ""Iliad""?" A: Achilles
Q: What is an Afrikaans and South African English word for a roughly circular enclosure for livestock, surrounded by fencing? A: Kraal
Q: How many members of a netball team are allowed to shoot at goal? A: 2
Q: The Battle of Tewkesbury in 1471 was decisive in which conflict? A: The Wars of the Roses
Q: "Who is the lead vocalist for the alternative rock band R.E.M. who has become well-known for the ""mumbling"" style of his early career and for his complex, surreal lyrics, and his social and political activism?" A: Michael Stipe
Q: By what name was the Castle of St Antoine that was built in Paris in 1369 as a fortress better known? A: Bastille
Q: How many planets orbit the sun between it and earth? A: 2
Q: Where was Harris Tweed originally produced? A: Outer Hebrides
Q: During the Great, or Western, Schism from 1378, there were two or more Popes recognised in the Catholic Church. Who was elected in 1417 and eventually recognised by the majority as the single Pope? A: Martin V
Q: "In the James Bond film ""Dr. No"" who played Bond girl Honey Rider?" A: Ursula Andress
Q: Sometimes called elephant or chinese chess, what is this game known as in the Asian Games? A: Xiangqi
Q: Before becoming US president, George W Bush was governor of which state? A: Texas
Q: Which king formed the first English parliament? A: Henry III
Q: What is the Fijian word for a wood-and-straw hut, sometimes similar to a cabin? A: Bure
Q: In which country, in June 2010, were there clashes between the two main ethnic groups, the Uzbeks and Kyrgyz, a state of emergency declared and troops deployed, inciting fears that the country could be heading towards a civil war? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: What makes soft drinks fizzy? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: Where was the TV series Stargate-SG1 filmed? A: Vancouver, Canada
Q: What were the first names of author D H Lawrence? A: David Herbert
Q: "Which band, led by Mick Hucknall, released its first single, ""Money's Too Tight (To Mention)"", in 1985?" A: Simply Red
Q: Who was the literary character behind the play Man of La Mancha? A: Don Quixote
Q: Ulysses is the Roman name for which Greek king? A: Odysseus
Q: "What character did Sharon Stone play in the 1992 film ""Basic Instinct""?" A: Catherine
Q: When was the eastern part of Australia claimed by Great Britain? A: 1770
Q: "A 1973 James Bond film was entitled ""Live and Let ... "" what?" A: Die
Q: "Who is cartoon character ""The Phantom"" married to?" A: Diana Palmer
Q: "In May 1909, Oscar Slater was sentenced to death for murder and released in 1928 with 6,000 compensation. People who campaigned for his release included William Roughead (who published his ""Trial of Oscar Slater"" in 1910), William Park (who published his ""The Truth about Oscar Slater"" in 1927) and by which other author who published ""The Case of Oscar Slater"" in 1912?" A: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: Luge and skeleton racing were developed in the late 19th century in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: It was a highly popular music hall song in 1910, a signature tune of Harry Champion, and was revived and popularised by Joe Brown and by Herman's Hermits, and is...? A: I'm Henery the Eighth, I am
Q: What gas is the main component of the atmosphere of the planet Mars? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: Shah Jahan directed the construction of which from 1632 to 1648? A: Taj Mahal
Q: What substance in the human body causes blood vessels to dilate when released as part of an allergic reaction? A: Histamine
Q: "Which London station does the ""Eurostar"" leave from?" A: St Pancras
Q: In 2004, Barbie dumped Ken for an Australian. What was his name? A: Blaine
Q: In 2010, who became the first person to win the Women's Singles title at the Australian Open tennis tournament 5 times? A: Serena Williams
Q: What river rises in the Black Forest and travels 1,775 miles to empty into the Black Sea? A: Danube
Q: In Roman mythology, when, on the dethronement of Saturn, Jupiter and his brothers divided his dominions, who got the realms of the dead? A: Pluto
Q: In the time of the British Empire, India was referred to as what? A: The Jewel in the Crown
Q: What is the next in this series: Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts ... ? A: Romans
Q: Who discovered Uranus in 1781? A: William Herschel
Q: Football Golf has annual World and European Championships, as well as Open Tournaments in Germany, Denmark, Sweden and what other country? A: Spain
Q: Who was the leader of 617 Squadron, formed during World War II and known as the Dambusters? A: Guy Gibson
Q: What is the monetary unit of Thailand? A: Baht
Q: Who were the Persians defeated by in the sea battle at Salamis in 480BC? A: Greece
Q: What was the original name of Mickey Mouse? A: Mortimer
Q: "The musical term ""scherzo"" takes its name from the Italian word for what?" A: Joke
Q: "A Russian political satirist, later exiled, who wrote the plays ""Dead Souls"" and ""The Government Inspector"" was..?" A: Gogol
Q: Who was awarded FIFA's Ballon D'Or in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? A: Lionel Messi
Q: What war, begun in 1740 when Austrian Emperor Charles VI died and his daughter Maria Theresa came to the throne, involved attacks by Prussia, Bavaria, France, Spain, Sardinia and Saxony, and ended in 1748? A: The War of the Austrian Succession
Q: In which James Bond film does he have to defeat shipping magnate Karl Stromberg? A: The Spy Who Loved Me
Q: Bangladesh declared independence from which country on 26 March 1971? A: Pakistan
Q: "Who was the lead guitarist of the band ""Guns N' Roses"" between 1985 and 1996?" A: Slash
Q: "Who refused to enter the US army, saying ""I ain't got no quarrel with the Vietcong. No Vietcong ever called me nigger""?" A: Muhammad Ali
Q: What was the last James Bond film made that starred Roger Moore? A: A View to a Kill
Q: The Massacre of Aleppo in 1850 in Syria was carried out during which rule? A: Ottoman Empire
Q: Snuff is made of a powdered form of what? A: Tobacco
Q: Which bridge across the Thames is closest to the Houses of Parliament in London? A: Westminster Bridge
Q: Piggyback, fireman's, and Estonian-style are holds in what sport with Championships in North America, Finland, and (in 2011) India? A: Wife-carrying
Q: The initiative for what current unit of the British Army began during World War II in 1941 by David Stirling as a commando force operating behind enemy lines during the war in North Africa and Europe? A: SAS
Q: In which decade was the hovercraft invented? A: 1950s
Q: "Tony Kushner wrote the award-winning play ""Angels in...?" A: America
Q: Which English soccer player, whose career in first class soccer ran from 1958 to 1976, was captain of the England team that won the 1966 World Cup and was England's most capped player (108) when he retired from the England team in 1973? A: Bobby Moore
Q: What note is in the centre of a standard piano keyboard? A: Middle C
Q: "In 1968, which book by Philip K Dick was published that became the basis for the 1982 film ""Blade Runner""?" A: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Q: Which issue in the state of Western Australia has been defeated each time it has been put to a plebiscite in 1975, 1984, 1992 & 2009? A: Daylight saving
Q: In which 1981 television series did Kenneth Williams voice at least 13 characters, and together with one other actor voice all of the characters in the series? A: Willo the Wisp
Q: Who of these is most associated with Fleetwood Mac? A: Stevie Nicks
Q: Who was killed on 4 January 1967 when his jet propelled boat, Bluebird K7, somersaulted and disintegrated on Coniston Water? A: Donald Campbell
Q: "Who played the title role in the film ""Saving Private Ryan""?" A: Matt Damon
Q: In chess, what term is given to the situation where a king is under direct attack and cannot avoid being captured? A: Checkmate
Q: What is the Japanese delicacy that consists of the poisonous puffer fish with the poisonous parts (hopefully) removed? A: Fugu
Q: The federal government of Australia moved to what new, purpose-built, planned, capital city in 1927? A: Canberra
Q: By what name is Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus better known? A: Caligula
Q: What was the nickname of snooker player Ray Riordan? A: Dracula
Q: The Vandals sacked which city in 445 AD? A: Rome
Q: The nomadic Mongol tribes in Mongolia, Manchuria and Siberia united under which leader in the 1100s? A: Genghis Khan
Q: The Mohs scale measures what? A: Hardness of minerals
Q: The semi-arid region called The Sahel separates what from the rest of Africa? A: The Sahara Desert
Q: A series of political protests against the government in Thailand in 2010 were organised by a group calling themselves what? A: Red shirts
Q: What is the transparent front part of the eye which, while contributing most of the eye's focusing power, has a fixed focus? A: Cornea
Q: Who were Great Uncle Bulgaria, Tobermory, Orinoco, Bungo, Tomsk, Wellington and Madame Cholet? A: Wombles
Q: In American football, who stands behind the centre and calls the play? A: Quarterback
Q: Which English MP, Chief Secretary to the Admiralty under King Charles II and King James II, kept a detailed private diary during 16601669 which contained personal revelations and eyewitness accounts of great events and, after publication in the 19th century, became a primary source for study of the English Restoration period? A: Samuel Pepys
Q: What country has an official residence called Blair House, kept for guests of the leader of the country? A: USA
Q: "What sort of art work is the ""Venus de Milo""?" A: Sculpture
Q: "What is the setting for the 1993 film ""Alive"", which stars Ethan Hawke, Vincent Spano and Josh Hamiltonset and is narrated by John Malkovich?" A: The Andes
Q: What pigment found in plant leaves uses energy from sunlight to provide food? A: Chlorophyl
Q: The following people died from what cause: Eva Braun, Wallace Carothers, Odilo Globocnik, Joseph Goebbels, Hermann Gring, Heinrich Himmler, Gnther von Kluge, Erwin Rommel, Alan Turing and the residents of Jonestown? A: Cyanide poisoning
Q: Which country held the most gold medals in the Men's European Volleyball Championship from 1948 to 1999? A: USSR
Q: The Crucible, a 1953 play by Arthur Miller, was set in what city? A: Salem
Q: "Who was the first person to win ""The Big Four"" Grammy Awards (Record of the Year, Album of the Year, Song of the Year & Best New Artist) in one year?" A: Christopher Cross
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 4 points? A: Brown
Q: The Peloponnesian War, fought around 430 to 405 BC, was primarily a conflict between the city state of Athens and people from where? A: Sparta
Q: What major city lies on a line joining Toledo, Monroe, Wyandotte, Windsor and London? A: Detroit, Michigan, USA
Q: The Hindu temple complex of Angkor Wat, built for the king Suryavarman II in the early 12th century as his state temple and capital city, is in which country? A: Cambodia
Q: In rugby union, which position wears the number 2 jersey? A: Hooker
Q: """Catriona""is a sequel to which novel?" A: Kidnapped
Q: Who was the third wife of King Henry VIII who died of postnatal complications less than two weeks after the birth of her son, who briefly reigned as Edward VI? A: Jane Seymour
Q: The Bill of Rights was passed by the Parliament of England in which century? A: 17th century
Q: Sergei Rachmaninoff was a virtuoso on which instrument? A: Piano
Q: "Who appeared in her first film for 15 years, ""Monster In Law"", in 2005?" A: Jane Fonda
Q: "According to a song by Billy Idol ""It's a nice day for a white ..."" what?" A: Wedding
Q: Where are the Nicobar Islands? A: Indian Ocean
Q: Which South American water rat is the world's largest rodent, growing to over 4 feet long? A: Capybara
Q: What is the name of the Jamaican netball team? A: The Sunshine Girls
Q: Which city in the Zou Department of The People's Republic of Benin was formerly the capital of the ancient kingdom of Dahomey? A: Abomey
Q: "John the Baptist lived in the wilderness of Judea between Jerusalem and the Dead Sea, ""his raiment of camel's hair, and a leather girdle about his loins; and his meat was ..."" what?" A: Locusts and wild honey
Q: Who was famously shot dead while playing cards in Deadwood, South Dakota, on 2 August 1876? A: Wild Bill Hickok
Q: In 2003, a congestion charge was introduced to reduce traffic volumes in which city centre? A: London
Q: "A hit for the Marvelettes, the Beatles and the Carpenters was ""Please Mr who?" A: Postman
Q: "What are the ""White Cliffs of Dover"" made of?" A: Chalk
Q: "Who plays Susan Mayer in the US TV series ""Desperate Housewives""?" A: Teri Hatcher
Q: Chainmail was a precursor to what popular board game first published in 1974? A: Dungeons and Dragons
Q: Between April and July 1997 Andrew Cunanan killed 5 people (beginning with Jeffrey Trail in Minneapolis, David Madson, near Rush City, Minnesota, Lee Miglin in Chicago, William Reese in Pennsville, New Jersey) before shooting himself. Who was his 5th victim, shot in Miami Beach, Florida? A: Gianni Versace
Q: What was the title of the 2001 film that was a sequel to The Silence of the Lambs? A: Hannibal
Q: "The phrase ""Crossing the Rubicon"" is associated with which historical figure?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: In which country are the cities of Bishkek, Batken, Karakol, Naryn, Osh and Jalal-Abad? A: Kyrgyzstan
Q: In 1768, Joshua Reynolds became the first president of what British institution? A: Royal Academy
Q: What is the process of decreasing or eliminating an unwanted magnetic field, a term first used by Commander Charles F. Goodeve, RCNVR, during World War II while trying to counter German mines? A: Degaussing
Q: What are SMS messages sent by? A: Mobile phone
Q: What was the popular name for Joseph Stalin by Americans during World War II? A: Uncle Joe
Q: """The Bowery"" is a street in which US city?" A: New York
Q: In falconry what is a tiercel? A: A male hawk or falcon
Q: Where was the 2012 annual G8 leaders summit held? A: USA
Q: Where is the United Kingdom's National Space Centre? A: Leicester
Q: What is the common name for Anagallis known for the opening and closing of the flowers in response to environmental conditions? A: Pimpernel
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""O Captain! My Captain!""?" A: Walt Whitman
Q: What projectile is fired by a crossbow? A: Bolt
Q: What 1973 film starring Al Pacino, John Randolph and Tony Roberts is based on the true story of New York City policeman who went undercover to expose the corruption of his fellow officers? A: Serpico
Q: The Mawlawyah (Sufi Order) in Turkey are also known as what? A: Whirling dervishes
Q: What was the capital of Yugoslavia from 1918-2006? A: Belgrade
Q: "According to the English nursery rhyme, who ""called for his pipe and called for his bowl and called for his fiddlers three""?" A: King Cole
Q: In what is often called boxing's biggest upset ever Buster Douglas beat who in the world unified Heavyweight title fight in 1990 ? A: Mike Tyson
Q: The Hanseatic League was a union of ports on which sea? A: Baltic Sea
Q: "What type of apple was adopted by The Beatles' ""Apple Records"" as its symbol?" A: Granny Smith
Q: "In golf, what is the term for ""two strokes under par""?" A: Eagle
Q: What is the name for the open areas of country in South Africa? A: Veldt
Q: In 1935 Count Basie, composer, jazz pianist and band leader, with his newly formed band developed his signature tune, which was what? A: One O'Clock Jump
Q: Opus Dei is a sect within which religious movement? A: Catholicism
Q: In Scandinavian mythology, who were the maidens who rode through the sky on horses, sword in hand, to influence the outcome of battles and select the bravest fighters to live in Valhallah? A: Valkyries
Q: When was the last major volcanic activity at Mount St Helens, Washington USA? A: 2008
Q: What compound in the human body acts as a neurotransmitter and helps to regulate temperature? A: Serotonin
Q: Phil Taylor (1960-now), ranked world number one in 2012 in the Professional Darts Corporation order of merit, holds a record 16 darts World Championship titles; in what year did he win his first World Championship? A: 1990
Q: Which planet is closest to Neptune in size and composition? A: Uranus
Q: "Where is the ""Day of Skulls"" celebrated on 8 November?" A: Bolivia
Q: Who married stylist Ric Pipino in 1997, divorced him in 2002, had a daughter by Italian businessman Flavio Briatore, married musician Seal in 2005, and had 3 three more children with him between 2005 and 2009? A: Heidi Klum
Q: The First Sino-Japanese War (1894-5) was fought between which two countries? A: China and Japan
Q: What is the nickname of Nike's company logo? A: "The ""swoosh"""
Q: The white fumes that form when hydrogen chloride dissolves in water consist of what? A: Hydrochloric acid
Q: Which planet comes closest to the earth in its orbit around the sun? A: Venus
Q: In which year was artist Pablo Picasso born? A: 1881
Q: What was the first US Federal statute to limit cartels and monopolies, passed in 1890, that still forms the basis for most antitrust litigation by the United States federal government? A: The Sherman Act
Q: What was the nickname of Lawrence Peter Berra, a former Major League Baseball player and manager who played almost his entire career for the New York Yankees and was elected to the baseball Hall of Fame in 1972? A: Yogi
Q: In 1957 Luxembourg, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Germany and Italy joined together to form what? A: EEC
Q: Before 1972, what was Sri Lanka known as? A: Ceylon
Q: "Which golfer was continuously ranked as the world's number one golfer on ""McCormack's World Golf Rankings"" from its inception in 1968 to 1977?" A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: According to the Bible's Genesis 32:28, 30 and Hosea 12:3, 5, God wrestled with whom all night? A: Jacob
Q: What are Lithium, Sodium, Potassium, Rubidium and Caesium? A: Alkali metals
Q: What is a soft cheese made from skimmed milk curds? A: Cottage cheese
Q: What were the first names of comedians Abbott and Costello? A: Bud and Lou
Q: When was canoeing accepted as an Olympic sport? A: 1936
Q: In the Pink Panther series of films, who is Clouseau's house boy, an expert in martial arts, who frequently unexpectedly attacks him? A: Cato Fong
Q: What are Proxima Centauri, Sirius A, Pollux, Arcturus and Betelgeuse? A: Stars
Q: "Who played ""One Punch Mickey"" in the 2005 film ""Snatch""?" A: Brad Pitt
Q: At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards Show in February 2013 New Zealand singer Kimbra won two Grammies for her part in an album with Gotye. What were they? A: Record of the Year, and Best Pop Duo/Group Performance
Q: Which is the largest of the salt lakes of Salt Lake City? A: The Great Salt Lake
Q: What nickname is applied to the Western coast of Namibia, home to many shipwrecks? A: The Skeleton Coast
Q: The catastrophic disaster at a plant in Chernobyl in the Ukraine in April 1986 is described as what kind of accident? A: Nuclear
Q: What is the word for bending at least one knee to the ground, a gesture of deep respect for a superior that was introduced in 328 BC by Alexander the Great into his court, a practice then already followed in Persia? A: Genuflection
Q: Who created the international competition called the Goodwill Games, that were held between 1986 and 2001? A: Ted Turner
Q: To travel by sea from the British mainland to the Channel Islands, it is necessary to travel through the territorial waters of which country? A: France
Q: Which team won the Fdration Internationale de Volleyball Women's World Championship in Japan, that was held in October / November 2010? A: Russia
Q: What reaction did Bob Dylan receive to the second night of his performances at the Newport Folk Festival on Sunday 25 July 1965? A: Booing
Q: In 1812, who was the first and only British Prime Minister to be assassinated? A: Spencer Perceval
Q: What type of creature is a katydid? A: Insect
Q: How many wheels were there on each hansom cab, the horse-drawn taxis that used to operate in London in Victorian times? A: 2
Q: It was released as a video game in 1994, was restructured as a subscription-based MMORPG in 2004, and in February 2012 had more than 10 million subscribers. Which is it? A: Warcraft
Q: Who was the first leader of the Soviet Union? A: Lenin
Q: The British conquest of which country began in 1824 in response to its attempt to invade India, and from 1886 to 1937 was administered as a province of British India when it became a separate, self-governing colony? A: Burma
Q: In what sport is Arnold Palmer known? A: Golf
Q: Morten Harket was the lead singer for which band? A: a-ha
Q: Raymond, Celia and Blanche were the real names of the subjects of which painting by David Hockney? A: Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy
Q: The first nuclear reactor was built in 1942 in which US city? A: Chicago
Q: Indycar sportsman Scott Dixon, who won his first Indy championship in 2000 and whose ratio of wins to career starts is the best of all-time regular drivers in the IRL, comes from where? A: New Zealand
Q: Prithvi Narayan, Jung Bahadur Rana, King Mahendra, King Birendra, and King Gyanendra were all political leaders of which country? A: Nepal
Q: Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenegger played what unlikely pair in a 1988 film? A: Twins
Q: In 1720 speculation in a company's stock on the British stock market led to financial ruin for many investors; what was the event known as? A: South Sea Bubble
Q: The Jewish King Solomon was the son of whom? A: David and Bathsheba
Q: The 2nd and 4th presidents of the USA had the same surname. What was it? A: Adams
Q: "The ""venae cavae"" are found in what part of the body?" A: Heart
Q: Which film star became Governor of California? A: Arnold Schwarzenegger
Q: Which island was sold by Genoa to France in 1764, was ruled by Britain for two years from 1794 to 1796, and then returned to France? A: Corsica
Q: What is the maximum score in a game of ten-pin bowling? A: 300
Q: A clown fish creates a home for itself inside what? A: Anemone
Q: "Which fashion designer created Madonna's clothes for her 1990 ""Blonde Ambition"" tour, which included the ""conical bra""?" A: Jean-Paul Gaultier
Q: What is the main ingredient of hummus? A: Chickpeas
Q: In snooker, what is usually the maximum that can be scored in a single break? A: 147
Q: Who became president of Afghanistan in December 2004? A: Hamid Karzai
Q: Who was on the British throne when Balmoral Castle was purchased? A: Victoria
Q: Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson, the official mistress of Louis XV of France from 1745 to 1750, lent her titled name to what hairstyle? A: Pompadour
Q: The sparkling wine called cava originated in which country? A: Spain
Q: What was the occupation of Anna Lindh, who was assassinated in 2003 while shopping in the ladies' department at the Nordiska Kompaniet store in Stockholm? A: Politician
Q: Nicotine is named after the tobacco plant Nicotiana tabacum. Who did the plant get its name from? A: Jean Nicot de Villemain
Q: Patrick Cox is known as a designer of what? A: Shoes, leather goods and accessories
Q: What is the nationality of the actor wsho played Rumpelstiltskin in the TV series Once Upon a Time? A: Scottish
Q: What is the name for the range of limestone hills south of Bristol and Bath in Somerset, England which run east to west between Weston-super-Mare and Frome, and overlook the Somerset Levels to the south and the Avon valley to the north? A: The Mendip Hills
Q: First released in 2009 and based on stylised wingless fighters, the game is called what? A: Angry Birds
Q: What is another name for bilharzia? A: Snail fever
Q: "Who released the album ""Tissues and Issues"" in 2005?" A: Charlotte Church
Q: "Which musical term means ""sustained"", and occasionally also implies ""a slowing of tempo""?" A: Sostenuto
Q: Which cricket ground was the home ground of the Manchester Cricket Club from 1856 until it became the home of the Lancashire County Cricket Club when that was founded in 1864? A: Old Trafford
Q: Which long-running British TV series featured the characters Captain Peacock, Mrs. Slocombe, Mr. Humphries, Miss Brahms, Mr. Rumbold, Mr. Grainger and Mr. Lucas? A: Are You Being Served?
Q: Where, in 1961, did US-supported Cuban exiles invade Cuba? A: Bay of Pigs
Q: Who in 2011 won the unofficial event he hosts, the Chevron World Challenge, his first professional golf tournament win since 2009? A: Tiger Woods
Q: "After discovering a new planet, Herschel named it Georgium Sidus (George's Star), or the ""Georgian Planet"" in honour of King George III. The scientific community did not like the name, and decided to call it what?" A: Uranus
Q: Which place between York and Knaresborough in the UK was the site of a decisive battle in 1642 when Cromwell defeated Royalist forces? A: Marston Moor
Q: What was the governing body of ancient Rome? A: Senate
Q: Pashto has been the official language of which country since 1936? A: Afghanistan
Q: What was Colin Powell's role in George W Bush's government from 2001 to 2005? A: Secretary of State
Q: In October 2005, a week before her 16th birthday, Michelle Wie announced that she was turning professional at what sport? A: Golf
Q: In 1871, Otto von Bismarck became the first what? A: Chancellor of the German Empire
Q: What song by Helen Reddy was subject to much debate about what it was really about? A: Angie Baby
Q: When did the European Space Agency launch its first successful rocket, Ariane I? A: 1979
Q: When were the first world championships in alpine skiing held? A: 1931
Q: Where is the oldest working gin distillery in England? A: Plymouth
Q: What is the real name of the artist known as Fatboy Slim? A: Norman Cook
Q: Queen Maude Land and Mount Erebus are on which continent? A: Antarctica
Q: Mixing the colours red and blue results in what colour? A: Purple
Q: What musical is set in Deadwood? A: Calamity Jane
Q: In 1886, John Pemberton claimed that a certain concoction cured diseases, including morphine addiction, dyspepsia, neurasthenia, headache, and impotence. Which was it? A: Coca-Cola
Q: Which European country did not finally lose its territory in India until 1961? A: Portugal
Q: Snail fever is caused by organisms of which genus? A: Schistosoma
Q: Bezique is what kind of game? A: Card game
Q: Pete Townsend and Roger Daltrey are the only surviving members of which pop group who had its first hit record in England in 1965? A: The Who
Q: "In surnames, e.g. Fitzwilliam, FitzGerald, Fitzherbert & Fitzhenry, what does ""Fitz-"" mean?" A: Son of ...
Q: "What mineral takes its name from the Greek word for ""unquenchable"" or ""inextinguishable""?" A: Asbestos
Q: The city was founded under the rule of King Byzas around 660 BC. What name was officially adopted for the city in 1930? A: Istanbul
Q: The Dome of the Rock on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem is a shrine for which religion? A: Islam
Q: Who is credited with finding the cross used by Jesus and the remains of the Three Wise Men? A: Saint Helena
Q: In what field is John Galliano famous? A: Fashion
Q: Why was Captain William Kidd hanged in 1701? A: Piracy
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Wives and Daughters""?" A: Elizabeth Gaskell
Q: "What wild animal appears in a traditional ""Punch and Judy"" show?" A: Crocodile
Q: "Who plays Bree Van De Kamp in the US TV series ""Desperate Housewives""?" A: Marcia Cross
Q: What colour are the stars on the US flag? A: White
Q: "What is the English translation of the title of Mozart's opera ""Die Zauberflte""?" A: The Magic Flute
Q: Which cricket team was accused of being the subject of rigging the result of an international cricket game against England at Lords in August 2010? A: Pakistan
Q: Which is the highest military decoration awarded by the USA? A: Medal of Honour
Q: "Who popularised the phrase ""The buck stops here""?" A: Harry S Truman
Q: Who was the first British monarch to make a Christmas broadcast to the nation? A: George V
Q: The Fox Islands, Islands of Four Mountains, Andreanof Islands, Rat Islands, Buldir Island, Commander Islands and Near Islands are all part of which island chain? A: Aleutians
Q: Steel bands originated in which country? A: Trinidad
Q: Alfonso de Albuquerque took areas of which modern day country for Portugal in the early 1500s? A: India
Q: What is a method of preserving and sterilizing food, in which a product is processed under very high pressure, leading to the inactivation of certain microorganisms and enzymes in it? A: Pascalisation
Q: "The words ""the"", ""a"" and ""an"" are what parts of speech?" A: Articles
Q: Brazil is the largest country on which continent? A: South America
Q: "Jack Kerouac's 1957 novel ""On the Road"" was written in what style?" A: Stream of consciousness
Q: "In the 1960s, how many African countries became independent from the UK and joined the ""Commonwealth of Nations""?" A: 13
Q: L S Lowry is associated with what occupation? A: Artist
Q: What sportsman would perform a triple salchow? A: Figure skater
Q: Who was on the throne when Britain's first Prime Minister, Robert Walpole, was appointed? A: George I
Q: A black widow is a type of what? A: Spider
Q: The Sargasso Sea, where ocean water is distinctive for its deep blue color and exceptional clarity with underwater visibility of up to 200 feet, is in which ocean? A: Atlantic
Q: "Who played the title role in the 2004 film ""The Life and Death of Peter Sellers""?" A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: Who was the criminal released by Pilate in preference to Jesus on the demand of the Jerusalem mob? A: Barabbas
Q: Which autonomous grouping of islands in the Caribbean was dissolved on 10 October 2010? A: Netherlands Antilles
Q: What genus of bulbous flowering plants, native to the eastern Mediterranean region east to Iran and Turkmenistan has 3 species: litwinowii, orientalis and transcaspicus? A: Hyacinth
Q: What is the profession of Damien Hirst? A: Visual artist
Q: Where are the headquarters of the Arab League, which currently has 22 members? A: Cairo
Q: What is Russia's largest port city on the Pacific Ocean at the head of the Golden Horn Bay not far from Russia's border with China and North Korea, and the home port of the Russian Pacific Fleet? A: Vladivostok
Q: Tony and Maureen Wheeler began publishing what travel publications in the early 1970s? A: Lonely Planet
Q: "What was the first film starring ""Chucky""?" A: Child's Play
Q: What was the cause of an epidemic of 355 cases (46% fatal) between March and June 2010 in Zamfara State, Nigeria? A: Lead poisoning
Q: The 328 metre high Sky Tower is in which city? A: Auckland, New Zealand
Q: Spaniards Vicente Yez Pinzn, Francisco de Orellana and Lope de Aguirre, Portuguese Pedro Teixeira and Antnio Raposo Tavares o Velho, and Frenchman Charles Marie de La Condamine were involved in the exploration of what area? A: Amazon
Q: Before becoming president of the USA, Theodore Roosevelt was vice president to whom? A: William McKinley
Q: In 1965, who became the first non-American golfer to win the Masters, the US Open, The Open Championship and the PGA Championship? A: Gary Player
Q: "What jersey is awarded to the ""King of the Hill"", the best climber in the Tour de France?" A: Polka dot
Q: What was the first of a succession of Soviet state security organisations, created by a decree issued on 20 December 1917 by Vladimir Lenin and subsequently led by Felix Dzerzhinsky? A: The Cheka
Q: Where is the palace called Istana Nurul Iman? A: Brunei
Q: What launcher was used by the European Space Agency, the first of which was sucessfully launched in 1979? A: Ariane
Q: Where is El Nino, a warm current that affects the world's weather? A: Pacific
Q: "In golf, what is the term for ""three strokes under par""?" A: Albatross
Q: "Who created the cartoon series called ""Stanley the Palaeolithic Hero"", ""Bruce the Barbarian"", ""All the King's Comrades"" and ""Footrot Flats""?" A: Murray Ball
Q: "Which future member of The Monkees pop group appeared on the TV series ""Coronation Street""?" A: Davy Jones
Q: US President Bush sent 2,000 troops into which country to conduct regular military exercises and, after a US serviceman was shot by local forces in December 1989, ordered an additional 24,000 troops in to take control? A: Panama
Q: Blood Wedding (1932) by Garcia Lorca was based on elements of a true story which happened when? A: 1928
Q: "What word was coined by Charles Richet to denote a substance or spiritual energy ""exteriorised"" by physical mediums, said to be associated with formation of ghosts?" A: Ectoplasm
Q: What is another name for a barrel organ? A: Hurdy Gurdy
Q: In 1803, part of which two Canadian provinces were bought by the USA from France with the Louisiana Purchase, and ceded to Great Britain in 1818? A: Alberta and Saskatchewan
Q: "Whose art exhibit ""My Bed"", a double bed in a dishevelled state with stained sheets, surrounded by detritus such as soiled underwear, slippers and empty drink bottles, was exhibited at the Tate Gallery in 1999 as one of the shortlisted works for the Turner Prize?" A: Tracey Emin
Q: Which UNESCO World Heritage Site in the Mosel Valley, Germany, is known for its Roman architecture incuding the Porta Nigra, the best-preserved Roman city gate north of the Alps? A: Trier
Q: Who is credited with writing the software for Skype? A: Ahti Heinla, Priit Kasesalu, and Jaan Tallinn
Q: The character of Mary Alice Young is heard but does not appear in which US TV series? A: Desperate Housewives
Q: Where in Paris would you find the Arc de Triomphe? A: The Place Charles de Gaulle
Q: The North German Federation together with Bavaria and other southern German states fought which other country in 1870 in what war? A: France in the Franco-Prussian War
Q: Which of the Corrs plays the violin? A: Sharon
Q: British world champion, double Olympic gold medalist and extreme sportsman James Cracknell won his medals in what sport? A: Rowing
Q: Who was the governor of California from 1967 to 1975? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What word refers to a length of chain, rope, scarf, wire or fishing line used to strangle someone or an execution device used in Spain until 1974? A: Garotte
Q: "On 30 September 2010, the Allahabad High Court pronounced its verdict on four title suits relating to ownership of ""Ayodhya land"", which had been disputed since 1853. Which country was this land in?" A: India
Q: Playing a scenario close to the rise and assassination of real-life 1930s Louisiana Governor, Huey Long, the film won three Oscars (Best Actor, Best Supporting Actress, Best Picture) and was nominated for four more. Which was it? A: All the King's Men
Q: Winchester was the capital of which Anglo-Saxon kingdom? A: Wessex
Q: "What English pop band, formed in Manchester in 1990 with Robbie Williams, Gary Barlow, Howard Donald, Jason Orange and Mark Owen, achieved major success in the early to mid 1990s, split up in 1996, and in 2006 released the album ""Beautiful World""?" A: Take That
Q: What is produced from coarse aggregate, sand, cement and water? A: Concrete
Q: What island nation located in the central tropical Pacific Ocean, comprising 32 atolls and one raised coral island, dispersed over 3,500,000 square kilometres, (1,351,000 square miles) was formerly called the Gilbert Islands? A: The Republic of Kiribati
Q: Who became Heavyweight world boxing champion after Riddick Bowe refused to fight him in 1992? A: Lennox Lewis
Q: Edinburgh of the Seven Seas is the capital of which group of islands? A: Tristan da Cunha
Q: What is the word used in Greek mythology for the underworld? A: Hades
Q: Andrew Lloyd Webber stands in what relationship to Julian Lloyd Webber, the renowned cellist? A: Brother
Q: What does the Mohs scale measure? A: The hardness of minerals
Q: Phil Mickelson is a professional in what sport? A: Golf
Q: When did Polish codebreakers first break the code of the Enigma Machines used by German military? A: 1932
Q: "What language does the modern English ""cat"" come from originally?" A: Unknown
Q: Despite its name it is square and contains the arena for boxing contests, what is it called? A: Ring
Q: Which British prime minister returned from Munich to London in 1938 with an agreement signed by Hitler, Mussolini and the French Premier that promised peace in Europe? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: By what name have Rolling Stones members Mick Jagger and Keith Richards sometimes been known since 1974? A: The Glimmer Twins
Q: Which play by Alan Bennett, set in Cutlers' Grammar School, Sheffield, in the early 1980s that follows a group of pupils preparing for examinations, premired in London in 2004? A: The History Boys
Q: What is the name of needlework where pieces of fabric are sewn onto a fabric background? A: Applique
Q: We the People, which started a new direction in the wargame movement and is very influential in current wargame design, is what kind of game? A: Cards
Q: Jay Ward and Alex Anderson created which character which first appeared on American TV in 1959? A: Bullwinkle J. Moose
Q: Six states in the USA are split between two time zones, Eastern and Central. They are Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Tennessee and which other? A: Alabama
Q: Times Square, Manhattan, New York City, was previously known as what? A: Longacre Square
Q: How many different people were President of the USA in the first 200 years after 30 April 1789? A: 40
Q: Anthony Hopkins is a supporter and fundraiser for which British national park? A: Snowdonia
Q: What British town's pier was referred to in a book title by George Orwell? A: Wigan
Q: The Nazca Plate, part of the earth's lithosphere, lies under which ocean? A: Pacific
Q: What shape are the individual cells in a honeycomb? A: Hexagonal
Q: Greg LeMond was a champion in which type of sport? A: Cycling
Q: When King George II of Great Britain and Ireland died in 1760, who succeeded him? A: His grandson
Q: In the 18th century John Harrison solved the problem of determining longitude at sea using what instrument? A: Clock
Q: What colour does blue litmus paper turn when in contact with acid? A: Red
Q: "When was the repeal of the US federal law called the ""Chinese Exclusion Act"" (1882) which banned Chinese immigration?" A: 1943
Q: What is the name of the official proceedings of the UK's House of Commons? A: Hansard
Q: What is the resort area in the east of Long Island in New York state? A: The Hamptons
Q: Who won all the Grand Slam major tennis tournaments in 1970? A: Margaret Court
Q: What tough, tightly woven fabric used to make suits, overcoats, trousers and other garments, traditionally made from worsted wool fibre, was patented by Thomas Burberry in 1888? A: Gabardine
Q: In which country is the Arab Spring recognised as first taking hold? A: Tunisia
Q: Snowflake was the name of what albino animal that died in the Barcelona Zoo in 2003? A: Gorilla
Q: The military aeroplanes the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), the F-22 Raptor, the F-15 Eagle, the F-16 Falcon, the C-17 Globemaster III, the EA-6B Prowler, and the F-111 are powered by engines from which manufacturer? A: Pratt and Whitney
Q: The New Spitalfields Market in Leyton, East London, deals in what? A: Fruit, vegetables and flowers
Q: With what profession was Vidal Sassoon most associated? A: Hairdressing
Q: What was the name given to the series of trials presided over by Judge Jeffreys after the Monmouth Rebellion in 1685 when hundreds were put to death or transported to the colonies? A: Bloody Assizes
Q: Goose bumps (also called goose flesh or goose pimples), which may involuntarily develop when a person experiences cold or strong emotions is known as what? A: Horripilation
Q: To travel in a direct line from Portland, Oregon to Portland, Maine in the USA how many major mountain ranges would need to be crossed? A: 2
Q: What is the official state religion in Nepal? A: Hinduism
Q: What lies directly beneath the liver in the human body? A: Gall bladder
Q: "Who assassinated Abraham Lincoln at a stage performance of ""Our American Cousin"" at Ford's Theatre on Good Friday, 14 April 1865?" A: John Wilkes Booth
Q: From 1618 the Thirty Years War between Catholic and Protestant countries in the Holy Roman Empire, in 1632 became a fight between the Hapsburgs and Spain on one side against who on the other? A: France
Q: What are the only arteries in the adult human body to carry deoxygenated blood? A: Pulmonary
Q: The English sovereigns Henry VII and Mary I were members of which Royal House? A: Tudor
Q: The Appenines is a mountain range that runs for 870 miles in what country? A: Italy
Q: The qualifying age to compete in World Figure Skating Championships has been '15 years old by 1 July of the previous year', since when? A: 1996
Q: When was the Fifth, and current, Republic established in France? A: 1958
Q: "What was the subject of the British TV programme ""The South Bank Show""?" A: Arts
Q: Acorns come from which species of tree? A: Oaks
Q: Mark Zuckerberg, Eduardo Saverin, Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes developed what online computer application? A: Facebook
Q: Where did King Charles II hide himself after the Battle of Worcester in 1651? A: In an oak tree
Q: "What was the stage name of Jiles Perry Richardson, Jr., a singer and songwriter from 1957 until his accidental death in 1959, who is best known for his recording of ""Chantilly Lace""?" A: Big Bopper
Q: Sledge, tack, claw, framing, upholstery, ball-peen, twist, dog-head and bush are all types of what? A: Hammer
Q: What is a word game played using a grid of lettered dice, in which players attempt to find words in sequences of adjacent letters? A: Boggle
Q: What is the largest river in Europe in terms of length, discharge, and watershed, that flows through central Russia, and has some of the largest reservoirs in the world? A: Volga
Q: Who, in 1969, was the first female prime minister of Israel? A: Golda Meir
Q: Dichromacy is a form of what? A: Colour blindness
Q: In which ocean are the Scilly Isles? A: Atlantic
Q: Who is considered to be the first Roman emperor? A: Augustus
Q: How many players are usually involved in a present-day game of Snakes and Ladders? A: 2
Q: Who, in 1982, while wearing his future wife's dress because she had hidden his clothes, was arrrested for drunkenly urinating on a cenotaph erected in honor of those who died at the Alamo in Texas, across the street from the actual building? A: Ozzy Osbourne
Q: "Who wrote the plays ""Uncle Vanya"" and ""The Cherry Orchard""?" A: Chekhov
Q: How many degrees are there in the angle on either side of a straight line? A: 180
Q: What year did seven Manchester United footballers die in an air disaster at Munich airport, was Canadian Football League officially established in its current form, and the International Ptanque Federation founded in Marseille? A: 1958
Q: What does a weathervane measure? A: Wind direction
Q: What was the first name of Mrs Dalloway, a fictional character created by Virginia Woolf? A: Clarissa
Q: In the late 1940s, a soldier named Constantin Esmont made detailed records of the various types of dog known as borzoi, concerned that the breed was degenerating. Where did the breed originate? A: Russia
Q: Where was gridiron football developed? A: USA
Q: According to the Bible, who is the father of Ham, Shem and Japheth? A: Noah
Q: Who was the head of Nazi propaganda during World War II who committed suicide with his family in 1945? A: Paul Joseph Goebbels
Q: "What is the duration of each half of a ""rugby sevens"" game in minutes, when played in the IRB Sevens World Series?" A: 7
Q: "What is a ""devil's coach horse""?" A: Beetle
Q: In 1960 Prince Andrew was the first child to be born to a reigning British monarch since when? A: 1857
Q: A plasma display panel contains many tiny cells between two panels of glass which hold a mixture of noble gases. The gas in the cells is electrically turned into a plasma which emits ultraviolet light which then excites what to emit visible light? A: Phosphorus
Q: "For the type of bet called a ""Trifecta"", how many horses are picked?" A: 3
Q: Capri is an island near which city? A: Naples
Q: Which US president was in office at the start of the Korean War? A: Truman
Q: When did Sugar Ray Leonard win his first world boxing title? A: 1979
Q: What is the name of the waterway that connects the North Sea to the Atlantic Ocean via Loch Ness? A: Caledonian Canal
Q: According to legend, what was the name of Lady Godiva's horse? A: Aethenoth
Q: Where would one find a famous example of a campanile that is not properly vertical? A: Pisa
Q: Prior to its annexation by the USA in 1898, Hawai had been a republic for about four years. What was it immediately before that? A: Monarchy
Q: What is a group of rooks called? A: Parliament
Q: What is the title of George W Bush's political memoir, published in 2010? A: Decision Points
Q: What colour are salmon eggs? A: Orange
Q: "The films ""The Hunt for Red October"", ""Patriot Games"", ""Clear and Present Danger"" and ""The Sum of All Fears"" feature which character created by Tom Clancy?" A: Jack Ryan
Q: Where was the prophet Muhammad born? A: Mecca
Q: ETA, an armed nationalist and separatist organization, is based in which country? A: Spain
Q: What is the title of Luxembourg's Head of State? A: Grand Duke
Q: Who, after splitting from a long term girlfriend in 2008, briefly dated actress Kate Hudson, and in 2012 was dating Serbian tennis star Ana Ivanovic? A: Adam Scott
Q: Mah Drysdale, Rebecca Scown, Juliette Haigh, Hamish Bond, Eric Murray, Pete Reed, Andrew Triggs Hodge, Ondrej Synek and Alan Campbell are international competitors in which sport? A: Rowing
Q: What is the common nickname for a steam-powered winch, widely used in logging, mining and maritime industries? A: Donkey engine
Q: Which war, which lasted for ten years, was fought between Agamemnon and Menelaus on one side and Priam on the other? A: Trojan War
Q: What branch of medicine deals with the cause, origin and nature of disease? A: Pathology
Q: "Who sued Hootie and the Blowfish for plagiarism in their song ""Only Wanna Be With You"" in 1995, reaching an out-of-court settlement?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: Which is another name for the game variously called taca taca, kicker, baby-foot, langirt and futillo? A: Foosball
Q: What power is the main source of electricity for Baja California? A: Geothermal
Q: Edward Somerset, Denis Papin, Thomas Newcomen and James Watt are known for work in relation to what? A: Steam power
Q: In May 2010, a vending machine was installed in the foyer of the prestigious Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi to dispense what? A: Gold
Q: What is the branch of medicine dealing with the skin and its diseases? A: Dermatology
Q: What acronym is used to acknowledge a debt? A: IOU
Q: "The line ""Frailty, thy name is woman"" is from what play?" A: Hamlet
Q: What was Harry Buermeyer's club in 1878 when he became the first official amateur heavyweight boxing champion in America? A: New York Athletic Club
Q: In 1917, who led a Bolshevik insurrection against the Provisional Government of Alexander Kerensky, starting the Bolshevik Revolution, the second phase of the overall Russian Revolution? A: Vladimir Lenin
Q: Up to the first half of 2013 who has won the most men's major golf championships, also known as majors (Masters Tournament, U.S. Open, The Open Championship (British Open) and US PGA Championship)? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: Beachy Head overlooks what stretch of sea? A: English Channel
Q: Who led barons to revolt against Henry III in 1263 established England's first elected parliament and was killed at the Battle of Evesham in 1265? A: Simon de Montfort
Q: The piano piece, Fr Elise, well-known to music students, was written by whom? A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: Francis Crick and James Watson did their research into DNA at what institution? A: Cambridge, England
Q: "Which English explorer commanded the ships ""Discovery"" and ""Terra Nova"" to explore the Antarctic?" A: Robert Falcon Scott
Q: What is Spike Milligan's first name? A: Terence
Q: "What colour is the copper mineral called ""malachite""?" A: Green
Q: Which city about 200 km west of Madrid that has a university founded in 1218 (the oldest university in Spain and the 5th oldest western university) was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988? A: Salamanca
Q: "On 15 April 1986, the USA launched a series of air strikes on what country because Ronald Reagan had ""irrefutable proof"" that it had directed a terrorist bombing in a Berlin discothque." A: Libya
Q: Sunday Rose are the names of the daughter of Nicole Kidman and whom? A: Keith Urban
Q: In Michaelangelo's painting on the Sistine Chapel ceiling, Adam's finger points to whom? A: God
Q: Who died in 1658, was buried at Westminster Abbey, and was disinterred and hanged in 1660? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: What colour is turmeric, a key ingredient for many Indian, Persian, Thai and Malay dishes, often used in curry? A: Yellow
Q: "Who are most likey to perform a ""pas de deux""?" A: Ballet dancers
Q: What became, In July 1959, the first socialist state in the Western Hemisphere? A: Cuba
Q: What American TV serial, first broadcast between April 1990 and June 1991, followed an investigation headed by Special Agent Dale Cooper? A: Twin Peaks
Q: A boar is what type of creature? A: Pig
Q: Stainless steel is a steel alloy with a minimum of 10.5 to 11% content by mass of what element? A: Chromium
Q: What name is given to a brightly coloured and very wide tie? A: Kipper tie
Q: Iran and the United Arab Emirates together with Musandam, an exclave of Oman, are on either side of which stretch of water? A: Strait of Hormuz
Q: "The plot of the 1959 film ""Some Like It Hot"", starring Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon, is triggered by what event?" A: The Saint Valentine's Day massacre
Q: "Who is credited with the quote, famous in US history: ""I have not yet begun to fight""?" A: John Paul Jones
Q: "What was the occupation of Alex, the character played by Jennifer Beals, in the 1983 film ""Flashdance""?" A: Welder
Q: In early 2013 French actor Gerard Depardieu took on Russian citizenship and was registered as permanent resident of...? A: Saransk, Russia
Q: In 1986, which country was found guilty by the International Court of Justice (World Court) of war crimes against Nicaragua? A: USA
Q: What Greek letter is used to denote the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter? A: Pi
Q: "What role was played by Robbie Coltrane in the 2005 film ""Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire""?" A: Hagrid
Q: Temujin (1162-1227), who made his capital in Karakorum was better known as who? A: Genghis Khan
Q: "What is looked for in the blue-tinged igneous rock called ""kimberlite""?" A: Diamonds
Q: Sofia is the capital of which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: What is the name for a Muslim house of prayer? A: Mosque
Q: The islands of Kythera, Antikythera, Crete, Kasos, Karpathos and Rhodes are in which sea? A: Aegean
Q: What song title has been recorded by Mark Ronson and Amy Winehouse, Steve Winwood, Bad Company, Reel Big Fish, and Louisiana Red? A: Valerie
Q: What is the palace and fortress complex of the Moorish rulers of Granada in southern Spain constructed during the mid 14th century that occupies a hilly terrace on the southeastern border of the city of Granada, Spain? A: The Alhambra
Q: What was established by the Maastricht Treaty? A: The European Union
Q: "Who wrote the books ""Stark"", ""Gridlock"", ""This Other Eden"", ""Popcorn"", ""Blast from the Past"", ""Inconceivable"", ""Dead Famous"", ""High Society"", ""Past Mortem"" and ""The First Casualty""?" A: Ben Elton
Q: US TV personality Jerry Springer was once mayor of which city? A: Cincinatti
Q: The Cullinan, a 3106.75 carat diamond, was mined where in 1905? A: Pretoria
Q: "Which German writer, one of the key figures of the movement of Weimar Classicism in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, produced the two-part drama ""Faust"", numerous poems and the novel ""The Sorrows of Young Werther""?" A: Goethe
Q: The River Tiber runs through which capital city? A: Rome
Q: "The TV series ""Sex and the City"" was set where?" A: New York
Q: By what name is Edson Arantes do Nascimento better known to his fans? A: Pel
Q: "Who played mobster Henry Hill in the 1990 film ""Goodfellas""?" A: Ray Liotta
Q: According to Greek mythology, Penelope was whose faithful wife? A: Odysseus
Q: Vulgaria is what in the musical Chitty Chitty Bang Bang? A: Land
Q: "in 1853 while working on the synthesis and properties of various acid anhydrides, French chemist Charles Frederic Gerhardt made acetylsalicylic acid by mixing acetyl chloride with a sodium salt of salicylic acid (sodium salicylate). He called the resulting compound ""salicylic-acetic anhydride"". What was this preparation later marketed as?" A: Aspirin
Q: What Spanish city became famous in the middle ages for swords and fine steel? A: Toledo
Q: Belgian competitor Eddy Merckx, often referred to as the best of all time in his field, was involved in what sport? A: Cycling
Q: "The ""rig veda"" is a collection of scriptures sacred to which religion?" A: Hinduism
Q: "What was the name of the paranoid android in the book ""The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy"" by Douglas Adams?" A: Marvin
Q: In which city would you find Victoria Peak, Victoria Harbour, Tai Mo Shan, Lantau Island, Cheung Chau, Lamma Island, Peng Chau and Tsing Yi Island? A: Hong Kong
Q: A hexagon has how many angles? A: 6
Q: Which cartoon character is the adoptive father of Swee'Pea, an infant foundling left on his doorstep? A: Popeye
Q: Leif Ericson, a Norse explorer regarded as the first European to land in North America before Christopher Columbus, established a settlement at Vinland, which has been tentatively identified as being where? A: Newfoundland
Q: What is the chief ore from which aluminium is obtained? A: Bauxite
Q: "Who is the New Zealander who directed ""Shrek"", ""Shrek 2"", ""The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe"" and ""The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian""?" A: Andrew Adamson
Q: Malagasy is an official language of which country? A: Madagascar
Q: Pure gold is denoted by how many carats? A: 24
Q: Block, Fan, Horsetail, Plunge, Punchbowl and Segmented are types of what? A: Waterfall
Q: Where did Scottish patriot William Wallace lead soldiers to a defeat of the English in 1297? A: Battle of Stirling Bridge
Q: Where does the Guinness Book of World Records recognise the largest wave ever surfed, 78 feet (23.8 m), as having been ridden? A: Portugal
Q: "Which 15th century Italian painted ""The Adoration of the Magi"" and ""The Birth of Venus""?" A: Sandro Botticelli
Q: What is generally considered to be the largest naval battle of World War II and by some to be the largest naval battle in history, and the first battle in which Japanese aircraft carried out organized kamikaze attacks? A: The Battle of Leyte Gulf
Q: What country has the largest area? A: Russia
Q: In 1459, the Battle of Blore Heath in Staffordshire, England, 2 miles east of Market Drayton in Shropshire, was the first major battle of which campaign? A: The Wars of the Roses
Q: "In 1906, Lee de Forest developed a ""triode"" to amplify and convert alternating current to direct current, which played a major role in the development of which invention?" A: Radio
Q: Billy Bowden is an official in what sport? A: Cricket
Q: Which singer invested in the Ampex company in 1947 (which developed North America's first commercial reel-to-reel tape recorder), was the first to pre-record his radio shows and to master his commercial recordings on magnetic tape? A: Bing Crosby
Q: When was Nicolae Ceauescu, at the time Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party and Head of State in Romania, deposed and later shot? A: 1989
Q: "The Gaelic name for which sea cave on the uninhabited island of Staffa, in the Inner Hebrides of Scotland, is Uamh-Binn, meaning ""cave of melody""?" A: Fingal's Cave
Q: How many volunteer hours were estimated to have supported the 2012 Summer Olympics? A: 8 million
Q: "How many common nouns are there in the words ""Twinkle, twinkle, little star. How I wonder what you are.""?" A: 1
Q: What character has been played by Howard Marion Crawford, Jude Law, Nigel Bruce and, in 2012, Martin Freeman A: Dr Watson
Q: "Which orchestral arranger, orchestral conductor, song writer, and session musician composed the film scores for ""Brazil"", ""Highlander"", ""X-Men"", ""Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves"", ""Licence to Kill"", the ""Lethal Weapon"" series, the first three ""Die Hard""s and ""Mr. Holland's Opus""?" A: Michael Kamen
Q: Lydia Ko who took the 2012 Canadian Women's Open as a 15 year old amateur, became the youngest person to win an LPGA Tour event. What is her nationality? A: New Zealander
Q: At a banquet, the ghost of whom enters and sits in Macbeth's chair? A: Banquo
Q: What message did Benito Mussolini famously send to the Italian soccer team before the 1938 World Cup? A: Win, or die
Q: "What public disturbance early in June 1780 in London, described by Charles Dickens in ""Barnaby Rudge"", was put down by the military and followed by the execution of 11 people?" A: Gordon riots
Q: Which chemist, engineer, and armaments manufacturer invented dynamite and a detonator for it and then founded a longstanding series of world prizes for, among other things, promoting peace? A: Alfred Nobel
Q: Who married actress Ta Leoni on 6 May 1997, announced their separation on 15 October 2008, and in September 2009 announced that they had reconciled? A: David Duchovny
Q: Which was the first Soviet Union republic to establish its independence when the Soviet Union was dissolving? A: Lithuania
Q: Aspartame is a chemical used as what? A: Sweetener
Q: Baja California is part of which country? A: Mexico
Q: When archery was included for the first time at the Summer Olympics, in 1900, how many nations competed? A: 3
Q: Which 15th century Portuguese navigator discovered the sea route around the Cape of Good Hope? A: Bartholomew Diaz
Q: Which country has borders with Iran, Pakistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and the People's Republic of China? A: Afghanistan
Q: What is an abacus-like finger counting method used to perform basic mathematical operations, by which it is possible to display all numbers from 0 to 99 with both hands? A: Chisanbop
Q: Elton John co-wrote 5 songs with Tim Rice for which Walt Disney musical? A: The Lion King
Q: Who, legend has it, led Phoenicians to found Carthage? A: Dido
Q: A 19th century French physicist, chemist, botanist and teacher is particularly well-known for his seminal work in establishing entomology. What was his name? A: Jean-Henri Fabre
Q: What kind of event is the Welsh word Eisteddfod applied to? A: An arts festival
Q: The Karnak Temple Complex, a conglomeration of ruined temples, chapels, pylons and other buildings, is near where? A: Luxor, Egypt
Q: What was the title of Britney Spears' second album (and the single that was released from it)? A: Oops!...  I Did It Again
Q: "Shakespeare's ""King Lear"" is set in which country?" A: England
Q: How many theses were nailed to a church door by Martin Luther in 1517 (generally accepted to be the Castle Church in Wittenberg, Germany, on All Saints Eve, 31 October)? A: 95
Q: "Who created and hosts the TV series ""America's Next Top Model""?" A: Tyra Banks
Q: "What is the dish called ""Picalilli""?" A: A relish of chopped pickled vegetables and spice
Q: Which French singer and actress has been in a relationship with American actor Johnny Depp since 1998, with whom she has a daughter and a son? A: Vanessa Paradis
Q: "Where was the area known as ""The Spanish Main?" A: Caribbean Sea
Q: Which planet has 67 confirmed moons? A: Jupiter
Q: What British TV series was set at Maplins Holiday Camp? A: Hi De Hi
Q: Which band performed at the Australian Formula One Grand Prix in Melbourne, Australia in 2009 and in the halftime show of the Super Bowl in Miami Gardens, Florida in 2010? A: The Who
Q: """You had me at 'Hello'!"" is a line from which film?" A: Jerry McGuire
Q: "What was the name of the German fighter pilot known as the ""Red Baron"", officially credited with 80 confirmed air combat victories, who died in 1918, from wounds sustained in combat?" A: Manfred Albrecht Freiherr von Richthofen
Q: What does the Republic of Ireland call itself? A: ire
Q: The orangutan is found on Sumatra and which other island? A: Borneo
Q: Which family of palaeoanthropologists is most associated with work in the Oldupai Gorge, Tanzania? A: Leakey
Q: "What creature is a ""red snapper""?" A: Fish
Q: The First Lady of which US president was known as Pat, though her first name was Thelma? A: Richard Nixon
Q: "Which one of these co-wrote with David Bowie, to a guitar riff written by Carlos Alomar, the song ""Fame"", which was released by Bowie in 1975 on his ""Young Americans"" album?" A: John Lennon
Q: What body of water does the Mississippi River empty into? A: Gulf of Mexico
Q: The Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, was destroyed on July 21, 356 BC in an act of arson committed by whom? A: Herostratus
Q: Which team defeated Pakistan in the 2007 inaugural ICC World Twenty20 cricket tournament? A: India
Q: According to Edward Lear, who went to sea in a sieve? A: Jumblies
Q: A scarab beetle is also known as what? A: Dung beetle
Q: "Which flowers are ""in the hospital"", according to a 1993 hit by the Manic Street Preachers?" A: Roses
Q: What surface is tennis played on at The Australian Open at Melbourne Park? A: Hard court
Q: Glencoe, Praga, Peterloo, Waterloo Creek, and Hue are known as what? A: Massacres
Q: The internal angles of a pentagon add up to how many degrees? A: 540
Q: What is an essential ingredient of Bouillabaisse? A: Fish
Q: What currency is used in China? A: Yuan
Q: What is another name for caustic soda? A: Sodium hydroxide
Q: How often does a solar eclipse happens somewhere in the world? A: Every 18 months
Q: Which instrument originated in the 19th century as a Hawaiian interpretation of a small guitar-like instrument taken there by Portuguese immigrants? A: Ukulele
Q: David Ben-Gurion was the first prime minister of where? A: Israel
Q: What major sporting event was held, also in London, shortly after the London 2012 Summer Olympics? A: 2012 Summer Paralympics
Q: "The ""Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests In The Atmosphere, In Outer Space And Under Water"", known as the ""Partial Test Ban Treaty"", ""Limited Test Ban Treaty"" and ""Nuclear Test Ban Treaty"", introduced in 1963, was signed by a number of countries including the UK, the USA and which other?" A: USSR
Q: What tourist destination is near Owicim, Poland? A: Auschwitz concentration camp
Q: On 17 June 1994, what vehicle was O J Simpson driving in a slow-speed chase by police at 35 miles per hour (56 km/h)? A: Ford Bronco
Q: "In 1884 Pope Leo XIII published the encyclical ""Humanum Genus"", which denounced a number of beliefs and practices such as popular sovereignty and the separation of church and state, in relation to which group in particular?" A: Freemasons
Q: Which 2004 film, directed by Mike Nicholls and starring Clive Owen, Julia Roberts, Jude Law and Natalie Portman concerns two obsessive couples whose intimacy pushes them further apart? A: Closer
Q: How many players are there in a men's lacrosse team? A: 10
Q: """Operation Market Garden"" took place in the Netherlands and Germany during which war?" A: World War II
Q: The Manchester Small-Scale Experimental Machine, built by Frederic C. Williams, Tom Kilburn & Geoff Tootill that first ran on 21 June 1948, was an early form of what? A: Computer
Q: Which art museum, on the eastern edge of Central Park in New York City, USA, has a permanent collection containing more than two million works of art? A: The Metropolitan Museum of Art
Q: What religious organisation was founded in England by William Booth in 1877? A: Salvation Army
Q: "The adjectival clause in the following sentence begins with which word: ""Roger told his dog, which had just come inside, not to jump with such vigour on the brand new furniture""?" A: Which
Q: What is the most likely use for a privet shrub? A: Hedge
Q: In which city was the Reichstag burnt down in 1933? A: Berlin
Q: In 1972, who became the youngest Formula One Champion Racing Driver at the age of 25? A: Emerson Fittipaldi
Q: Niccol di Bernardo dei Machiavelli, a Renaissance man of many talents, is well-known for his writings on politics but was also a well-known politician, diplomat, philosopher, humanist, letter writer, playwright, poet, songwriter, and what else? A: Historian
Q: Which country governs the islands called Crete, Lesbos, Rhodes, Corfu, Lemnos, Andros, Naxos and Kos? A: Greece
Q: In 2006, which country announced that it was withdrawing from test match cricket for 12 months? A: Zimbabwe
Q: What currency is used in Thailand? A: Baht
Q: What does a tennis player score when he has no points? A: Love
Q: What play has the characters Lady Bracknell, Miss Prism and Doctor Chasuble? A: The Importance of Being Earnest
Q: What figure in Greek mythology was killed by a wild boar? A: Adonis
Q: A QR, or quick response, barcode is a machine-readable label, and encodes virtually any type of data including the standardised modes of alphanumeric, binary, numeric and what other kind? A: Kanji
Q: "Why did Bruno Richard Hauptmann, a German carpenter, make international news in 1936 when he was sentenced to death and executed for what became known as ""The Crime of the Century""?" A: The Lindbergh kidnapping
Q: On the Christian calendar, what name is given to the 40 days before Easter? A: Lent
Q: The Basques are native people of France and which other neighbouring country? A: Spain
Q: What planet orbits between Uranus and Pluto? A: Neptune
Q: After she beat Francesca Schiavone at the Sony Ericsson Tennis Championships in Doha, who was ranked World No. 1 on the WTA Tour? A: Caroline Wozniacki
Q: What is the name of a measure that is equal to 42 US gallons, 158.9873 litres, or 34.9723 Imperial (UK) gallons? A: Barrel
Q: Which of Queen Elizabeth II's children was married last? A: Edward
Q: "A ""quack"" is usually defined as someone who pretends to be an expert in what field?" A: Medicine
Q: It was formed in 1885 by members of the Theosophical Society, was a major force in the Indian independence movement and is still a potent political party in India. What is it called? A: Indian National Congress
Q: Which long-running TV series first aired on UK TV in 1963? A: Dr Who
Q: Stalactites and stalagmites are formed from what? A: Limestone
Q: "Which band's seventh album ""In Rainbows"" was released through their website on 10 October 2007 as a download for which customers could make whatever payment that they wanted, even nothing?" A: Radiohead
Q: "Which snooker player, nicknamed ""The Grinder"", in 1980 became the first player from outside the United Kingdom to win the world snooker championship?" A: Cliff Thorburn
Q: Where, on 24 June 1314, did Robert Bruce defeat Edward II's army? A: Bannockburn
Q: Which country owns most of the main island of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago, Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego? A: Chile
Q: Hamlet figures in which play? A: Hamlet
Q: Competitors from which country won the most medals at the 2010 World Rowing Championships at Lake Karapiro, New Zealand? A: Great Britain
Q: Who was thrown into the Tiber by his uncle, was suckled by a wolf, co-founded Rome and was killed by his brother? A: Remus
Q: The Kadima, Likud and Shas political parties are active in which country? A: Israel
Q: "Lindsay Lohan starred in a film called ""Confessions of a "" what?" A: Teenage Drama Queen
Q: Which musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber is based on a book by Wilkie Collins? A: The Woman in White
Q: Which species of shark is the largest fish in the world? A: Whale shark
Q: Which country, a founder member of the Arab League in 1945 was suspended from the League from 1979 to 1989 after it signed a peace treaty with Israel? A: Egypt
Q: "In the TV series ""Extras"", Stephen Merchant played what role?" A: The agent, Darren Lamb
Q: It is a team sport played on ice, in which skaters use sticks to direct a ball into the opposing team's goal, with currently 14 countries contesting its World Championships. What is it called? A: Bandy
Q: In 1984 Anne Wood founded a company to produce children's shows for TV, the early shows from which included Pob's Programme, Playbox and Teletubbies. What was it called? A: Ragdoll Productions
Q: The hula is traditional dance from where? A: Hawaii
Q: Erik the Red was convicted of killing both Thorgest (after a dispute over a shovel) and Valthjof (who had killed some of his slaves) and banished from Iceland. He led a group of approximately 500 settlers to settle in what country? A: Greenland
Q: Kelly Slater is both the youngest and oldest person to hold the world title in what sport? A: Surfing
Q: What part of an egg does albumen come from? A: White
Q: David Marks, Julia Barfield, Malcolm Cook, Mark Sparrowhawk, Steven Chilton, Frank Anatole and Nic Bailey were the architects of which London landmark that was opened on 31 December 1999? A: London Eye
Q: Directly leading up to WW I (1914-18) were two other major European conflicts in 1912 and 1913, usually called the First and Second what? A: Balkan War
Q: A team from which country won the World Elephant Polo Association world championship in 2004 and 2005? A: Scotland
Q: The river which carved out the Grand Canyon in Arizona, USA, is thought to have begun in its present course about how long ago? A: 17 million years
Q: Who is to be Australia's first Catholic saint? A: Mary McKillop
Q: Who was the first U.S. President to take residence in the White House, then known as the Executive Mansion? A: John Adams
Q: Which is not another name for allspice? A: Clove
Q: Who was the first left handed golfer to win one of the four majors? A: Bob Charles
Q: Which country has the largest coal reserves in Latin America and produces most of the world's emeralds? A: Colombia
Q: What was the name of the TV doctor played by Richard Chamberlain in a US TV series in the 1960s? A: Kildare
Q: Food prepared under the dietary laws of Judaism is called what? A: Kosher
Q: Who succeeded Joseph Smith, founder of the Mormon Church, after he was shot and killed on 27 June 1844? A: Brigham Young
Q: Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia and Sudan border what area? A: The Red Sea
Q: In 2001, who began a relationship with director Tim Burton with whom she has two children: Billy (born 2003) and Nell (born 2007)? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: Who play the two lead characters in the UK TV 2010 series Sherlock? A: Benedict Cumberbatch, Martin Freeman
Q: Brothers Joseph-Michel and Jacques-Etienne Montgolfier were the inventors of a style of what? A: Hot air balloon
Q: "Where is the TV series ""Ally McBeal"" set?" A: Boston
Q: "The term ""banana republic"" was first used in 1904 by O Henry, to describe what country?" A: Honduras
Q: How many times was Franklin D. Roosevelt elected president of the USA? A: 4
Q: Which trophy is affectionately called the Auld Mug? A: The Americas Cup
Q: "What unusual item is used as an instrument in the chorus of Verdi's opera ""Il Trovatore""?" A: Anvil
Q: Mr. Fantastic, the Invisible Woman, the Human Torch and the Thing are members of which fictional group? A: Fantastic Four
Q: "Who wrote the book ""The Prince and the Pauper""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: Who created the framework for the Virginia Plan, that structured the US Government into three branches? A: James Madison
Q: "Larry Hagman, the star of the TV drama that first ran from 1978 to 1991, ""Dallas"", is the son of which actress and singer who originated many roles over her career including Nellie Forbush in ""South Pacific"" and Maria in ""The Sound of Music""?" A: Mary Martin
Q: "In communication over two-way radios, in use by the military, police and fire despatching systems, and CB radio, what does ""over"" mean?" A: I have finished talking and I am listening
Q: The Anemone hupehensis (commonly known as the Japanese anemone, Japanese thimbleweed, or Japanese windflower) was originally native to where? A: Central China
Q: According to a story originating in the 9th century, and disputed by the Catholic Church, who was the first female Pope? A: Pope Joan
Q: Who commanded the Roman army that invaded Britain in 55BC? A: Julius Caesar
Q: "Where is the headquarters of the international broadcasting network CNN, ""the CNN Center""?" A: Atlanta, Georgia, USA
Q: "One of Canada's UNESCO World heritage sites is ""Head-Smashed-In Buffalo Jump"", which was used for 5,500 years by which indigenous people to kill buffalo, by driving them off the 10 metre high cliff?" A: Blackfoot
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 muses was the muse of Tragedy? A: Melpomene
Q: The TT on the Isle of Man, first run in 1905, is for what? A: Motorcycles
Q: Edwin Budding invented a tool in 1827 in Thrupp, just outside Stroud in Gloucestershire in the UK which in one of its current forms is used throughout gardens, parks, and sports grounds worldwide. What was it? A: Lawn mower
Q: In the first century AD, which rebellious British chieftain, of the Catuvellauni, was taken to Rome in chains? A: Caratacus
Q: What was the composer Mahler's first name? A: Gustav
Q: "How many ""tribes of Israel"" were there that descended from Jacob/Israel?" A: 12
Q: Who is the player who has come closest to meeting the modern definition of golf's Grand Slam by holding all four modern major championships simultaneously? A: Tiger Woods
Q: Who composed the jazz / swing theme music for the television series Jeeves and Wooster? A: Anne Dudley
Q: Which book of the Christian Bible's new testament comprises a letter from St Paul to members of a church that he had founded at Macedonia? A: Philippians
Q: What is a 1938 crime film starring Edward G. Robinson, Claire Trevor and Humphrey Bogart, directed by Anatole Litvak and written by John Wexley and John Huston, based on a play by Barr Lyndon? A: The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse
Q: What is the chemical symbol for hydrogen? A: H
Q: What is an essential ingredient of a game of water polo? A: Water
Q: Where is the Lateran palace? A: Rome
Q: It has been a boy's name, is usually a girl's name, and is well known as the name of Peter Pan's friend in a J.M. Barrie play. What is it? A: Wendy
Q: When was the company, the Tabulating Machine Company which later joined with three others to form the Computing Tabulating Recording Company, first launched? A: 1896
Q: "The name ""Subbuteo"" is most associated with a table-top version of what game?" A: Soccer
Q: """Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives"", which won the Palme D'Or at the Cannes Film Festival in 2010, was made where?" A: Thailand
Q: In 1822 Brazil declared its independence from what European power? A: Portugal
Q: What is the former name of the area that is now called Belize? A: The British Honduras
Q: Ludwig Leichhardt was a Prussian naturalist and explorer explorer of what area between 1842 and 1848? A: Northern and central Australia
Q: When did India first participate in the modern Olympic Games? A: 1900
Q: In anatomy, what word refers to a difference in coloration, usually of the iris but also of hair or skin? A: Heterochromia
Q: "Who was the first person (and only person, except for ""Sergeant Pepper"") other than The Beatles themselves, to have their image on the front cover of a Beatles LP?" A: Klaus Voorman
Q: What mountain range separates the Indian subcontinent from the Tibetan Plateau? A: Himalayas
Q: Who won the 1996 Formula One Driver's championship? A: Damon Hill
Q: The Hollywood sign, a landmark for Mount Lee in Los Angeles, California, originally said what when it was erected in 1923? A: Hollywoodland
Q: Who won the World Rally Championship 9 times in a row from 2004 to 2012? A: Sebastian Loeb
Q: Which cartoon series relied on the voices of Alan Reed, Jean Vander Pyl, Mel Blanc, Bea Benaderet, Gerry Johnson, Don Messick, Harvey Korman & John Stephenson? A: The Flinstones
Q: What is the word for an oblique-angled parallelogram with 4 equal sides? A: Rhombus
Q: On 15 July 2004, which country imposed diplomatic sanctions against Israel after two Israeli citizens, Uriel Zosha Kelman and Eli Cara, suspected of being Mossad agents, were convicted of attempting to obtain local passports fraudulently? A: New Zealand
Q: Which English author and model, the grand-daughter of author Roald Dahl, actress Patricia Neal and actor Stanley Holloway, married singer and pianist Jamie Cullum in 2010? A: Sophie Dahl
Q: Which country is divided into thirteen administrative districts (Lautm, Baucau, Viqueque, Manatuto, Dili, Aileu, Manufahi, Liqui, Ermera, Ainaro, Bobonaro, Cova Lima and Oecusse Ambeno), one of which is separated from the rest by part of Indonesia? A: East Timor
Q: "What ballroom dance, recognised by the World Dance Council in the category of ""International Latin"", comes from Brazil?" A: Samba
Q: "The plot of which play by William Shakespeare, whereby the King of Sicilia becomes convinced that his wife and his childhood friend have committed adultery and borne a daughter, was taken from Robert Greene's ""Pandosto"" (1588), but given a happy ending?" A: The Winter's Tale
Q: The International Skating Union (ISU) was formed in Scheveningen in the Netherlands in 1892 to govern speed skating and figure skating, and hosted its first Championship in Saint Petersburg in 1896. How many skaters competed? A: 4
Q: What is the formal title of Guernsey, the British Crown Dependency in the English Channel off the coast of Normandy? A: Bailiwick of Guernsey
Q: What was the first name of the opera composer Verdi? A: Giuseppe
Q: From 1894 to 1960, all of the Mosquito Coast was part of which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: "Who leads ""The CBS Orchestra"", the house band for ""The Late Show with David Letterman""?" A: Paul Shaffer
Q: """Aegrotocatellus jaggeri"" an extinct marine arthropod which disappeared about 250 million years ago, is named after whom?" A: Mick Jagger
Q: In snooker, what coloured ball scores 7 points? A: Black
Q: "Which American revolutionary leader wrote the influential pamphlet ""Common Sense"" in 1776?" A: Thomas Paine
Q: In a 1996 film John Travolta played what character ? A: Angel
Q: "The American TV serial ""Twin Peaks"" was set in what state of the USA?" A: Washington
Q: What colour is the medal presented for winning an event at the Olympic Games from 1904 onwards? A: Gold
Q: "The ""Missouri Compromise"" allowed which state to join the USA in 1820 to balance the admission of Missouri?" A: Maine
Q: What is the closest planet to the sun? A: Mercury
Q: A tirade by Christian Bale directed at Shane Hurlbut, director of photography was on the set of which 2009 film? A: Terminator Salvation
Q: In the British army, how many chevrons does a sergeant wear on his arm? A: 3
Q: What is a surgical procedure to improve the function or the appearance of a human nose? A: Rhinoplasty
Q: Between 500 and 850 AD, often referred to as the Dark Ages, the 7 kingdoms into which England was supposedly divided (the Heptarchy) were Wessex, Mercia, Kent, Essex, East Anglia, Sussex and which other? A: Northumbria
Q: Which epic poem from Ancient Mesopotamia is believed to have originated as a series of Sumerian legends and poems about a hero-king, which were gathered into a longer Akkadian poem much later? A: The Epic of Gilgamesh
Q: What country would you get to first if you went due West from the port of Bari, Italy? A: Albania
Q: What series of toys, aimed at little girls, was released by Hasbro in 1983? A: My Little Pony
Q: A piece for cornet, accompanied by a brass band plus clarinet and double bass, was composed and used as theme music for which TV show? A: Coronation Street
Q: In the 19th century, Chief Shaka was the leader of which group? A: Zulus
Q: "Who plays Arizona Robbins in the US TV series ""Grey's Anatomy""?" A: Jessica Capshaw
Q: Who won the golfing Open Championship 3 times between 1979 and 1988? A: Seve Ballesteros
Q: "John Milton created what name for the capital of Hell in his poem ""Paradise Lost""?" A: Pandemonium
Q: What is another name for the childhood disease called laryngotracheobronchitis? A: Croup
Q: What strait is between the Russian island of Sakhalin and the Japanese island of Hokkaid? A: La Perouse Strait
Q: Which honour was conferred by James II on John Dryden in 1630? A: Poet Laureate
Q: The national flag of which country features a map of it in a copper-yellow colour, symbolising large deposits of copper ore, with, to symbolise peace, two olive branches below on white? A: Cyprus
Q: "Who wrote ""A Brief History Of Time"" and ""Black Holes and Baby Universes""?" A: Stephen Hawking
Q: Where will the Paralympics be held in 2020? A: Tokyo
Q: "A 1962 film was called ""The Mutiny on the ... "" what?" A: Bounty
Q: What computer operating system that can be installed on a wide variety of computer hardware (including mobile phones, smartphones, wristwatches, mainframes & supercomputers) is an example of free and open source software collaboration? A: Linux
Q: How many pieces are on a chessboard at the start of a game? A: 32
Q: "Where is the ""Scenic Railway"", built in 1911, the oldest continually-operating roller coaster in the world, and one of only two in existence that require a brakeman to stand in the middle of the train?" A: Luna Park, Melbourne, Australia
Q: "In any version of the TV series ""Law & Order"", the opening credits start with the actors playing what parts?" A: Police
Q: What is the study of the history of words and how their form and meaning have changed over time? A: Etymology
Q: Rogaining, a sport of long distance cross-country navigation or orienteering, is recognised as originating where? A: Australia
Q: Where would you find the Machu Picchu mountain? A: Peru
Q: "What science features in the ""Indiana Jones"" film series?" A: Archaeology
Q: Khalid Al Qassimi, Daniel Sorda, Sebastien Ogier, Franois Duval & Jar-Matti Latvala regularly competed in 2010 in which championship? A: World Rally Championship
Q: "A book by Ernest Hemingway is ""The Snows of "" where?" A: Kilimanjaro
Q: In French cuisine, what is the name for a baked dish originating in Germany that is based on a custard made from eggs and milk or cream in a pastry crust, which usually is blind baked before the other ingredients are added for a secondary baking period? A: Quiche
Q: What bridge, between Millers Point and Milsons Point, opened on 19 March 1932? A: Sydney Harbour Bridge
Q: The names Corbett and Brambell are most associated with which well-known UK TV series? A: Steptoe and Son
Q: Bile is made in the liver and discharged into the duodenum. Where is it stored and conentrated on this journey? A: Gall bladder
Q: What is a stanza or poem consisting of four lines? A: Quatrain
Q: "Who was president of the USA when Chiang Kai-shek and his National Revolutionary Army fled to Taiwan from mainland China, during the ""House Un-American Activities Committee"" under Senator Joseph McCarthy, and during most of the US involvement in the Korean War?" A: Harry S. Truman
Q: When was the first Great Reno Balloon Race held? A: 1982
Q: Traditionally, what is used to coat Edam cheese? A: Wax
Q: The head of state of the Isle of Man, which is a Crown dependency and not part of the United Kingdom, is Queen Elizabeth II. She rules there because she holds what title? A: Lord of Mann
Q: What was the Muse d'Orsay in Paris used for before it was an art gallery? A: Railway station
Q: What was the occupation of the George Eliot character of Silas Marner? A: Weaver
Q: What type of instrument is a lute? A: String
Q: According to Greek legend, who was the king of Cyprus who fell in love with a statue he had made and married her after Aphrodite brought her to life? A: Pygmalion
Q: In 2005, who became the youngest Formula One Champion Racing Driver at the age of 24? A: Fernando Alonso
Q: In their original Greek version, what architectural style of fluted column stood directly on the flat pavement (the stylobate) of a temple without a base, topped by a smooth capital that flared from the column to meet a square abacus at the intersection with the horizontal beam (entablature) that they carried? A: Doric
Q: In 1779 Captain James Cook, having surveyed the West Coast of the continent of North America, was killed at which islands? A: Hawaiian Islands
Q: Who married British actress and producer Trudi Styler in 1992? A: Sting
Q: In Japan, what is the Shinkansen? A: High speed rail line
Q: What name is given to fluctuations in the curvature of spacetime that were predicted to exist by Albert Einstein in 1916 on the basis of his theory of general relativity? A: Gravitational waves
Q: Circe transformed Odysseus' companions into what? A: Swine
Q: Queen Rania is queen in which country? A: Jordan
Q: What was the real name of the fictional character Jason Bourne, the main character in 3 films based on stories by Robert Ludlam? A: David Webb
Q: What is the name of the engraved stone, discovered in 1799, that provided a key to deciphering the languages of ancient Egypt? A: Rosetta Stone
Q: What name did Ferdinand Joseph LaMothe perform under? A: Jelly Roll Morton
Q: Who is the native American subject of a poem by Longfellow? A: Hiawatha
Q: What is the generic title of a series of French comic strips that first appeared in French in the magazine Pilote on 29 October 1959? A: The Adventures of Asterix
Q: What is the name of the cross-pieces on a guitar fingerboard? A: Frets
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the multi-headed dog, encircled by a serpent, that guarded the portal to the underworld? A: Cerberus
Q: The Broads, a network of mostly navigable rivers and lakes, are mainly in which English county? A: Norfolk
Q: What is the world's largest cat? A: Tiger
Q: A clavichord is what type of instrument? A: Keyboard
Q: What was the first name of Dr. Watson, Sherlock Homes' assistant? A: John
Q: Who was the Formula One racing driver's champion in 1963 and 1965? A: Jim Clark
Q: Which country on the east coast of the Bay of Bengal is bordered by China, Laos, Thailand, Bangladesh and Nepal? A: Burma
Q: Who is killed by the Shakespearean character Macduff? A: Macbeth
Q: "Who had the title role in the 1996 film ""The Nutty Professor""?" A: Eddie Murphy
Q: What is Andrew Stanton most associated with? A: Pixar Animation Studios
Q: Claudius is the murderous uncle of which character in a Shakespearean play? A: Hamlet
Q: "The word ""pronto"" comes to English from which language?" A: Spanish
Q: "Michael J Fox played which character in the ""Back to the Future"" trilogy (1985-1990)?" A: Marty McFly
Q: What live in an artificial environment known as a formicarium? A: Ants
Q: What body of water between Israel and Jordan fed by the Jordan River has no outlet stream? A: Dead Sea
Q: The Koran was written in what language? A: Arabic
Q: Who was Archbishop of Canterbury during the reigns of Henry VIII and Edward VI, was then imprisoned for over two years and burnt at the stake for heresy? A: Thomas Cranmer
Q: Countries which in the 19th century permanently abolished the death penalty were the Roman Republic (1849), Venezuela (1854), San Marino (1865), and which other? A: Portugal
Q: What 2003 film, starring John Cusack, Gene Hackman, Dustin Hoffman and Rachel Weisz, was based on a book by John Grisham? A: Runaway Jury
Q: "Which 19th century American writer is best known for his ""Tales of Mystery and Suspense"", ""Tales of the Arabesque and the Grotesque"", and his poems ""The Raven"", ""The Bells"" and ""Annabel Lee""?" A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: Which country between the Andes mountain range and the Atlantic Ocean has borders with Paraguay, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay? A: Argentina
Q: The Dalai Lama is a high lama in which religion? A: Buddhism
Q: The first successful public operation under which anaesthetic was carried out at Massachusetts General Hospital in 1846 by William Morton? A: Ether
Q: An orchestra frequently tunes to an A provided by which instrument? A: Oboe
Q: What was the name of Vincent Van Gogh's brother? A: Theo
Q: Waterford Crystal was manufactured in Waterford City, Ireland, from 1783 until the factory was shut down after the receivership of Waterford Wedgwood plc in what year? A: 2009
Q: In May 2010, what store was sold to Qatar Holdings by Mohammed Al Fayed for 1.5 billion? A: Harrods
Q: The standard negative pulldown for 35 mm motion picture film is four perforations per frame along both edges, which makes for exactly how many frames per foot? A: 16
Q: "The phrase ""The Dashing White Sergeant"" refers to ...?" A: Dance
Q: In 1642, Cardinal Mazarin succeeded whom as Chief Minister of France? A: Cardinal Richelieu
Q: In which conflict between 1455 and 1485 were there battles at St Albans, Northampton, Wakefield, Towton, Barnet, Tewksebury and Bosworth? A: The Wars of the Roses
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1998 film ""Blade""?" A: Wesley Snipes
Q: "Who wrote the music forthe 1879 comic opera The Pirates of Penzance patter song ""I am the very model of a modern Major-General""?" A: Sir Arthur Sullivan
Q: What is an eating disorder characterized by extremely low body weight, distorted body image and an obsessive fear of gaining weight which has an incidence of between 8 and 13 cases per 100,000 persons per year, and largely affects young adolescent women? A: Anorexia nervosa
Q: The budgerigar is native to which country? A: Australia
Q: What was the first name of the English Prime Ministers known as Pitt the Elder and Pitt the Younger? A: William
Q: What is the name for the shape of a proscenium in a theatre? A: The proscenium arch
Q: Which group of 6 women in ancient Rome each had a term of office of 30 years (10 to be trained, 10 to work, including keeping a flame alive, and 10 to educate others)? A: Vestal Virgins
Q: An American author, best known for his creation of the jungle hero Tarzan and the heroic Mars adventurer John Carter, is Edgar Rice who? A: Burroughs
Q: "In 1936, prototypes of a car called ""strength through joy"", with a round shape and air-cooled, flat-four, rear-mounted engine, appeared and was developed to become which car that is still recognisable?" A: Volkswagen Beetle
Q: "Which area, which translates as ""the land of five rivers"", is on the border between India and Pakistan?" A: Punjab
Q: At the Battle of Bannockburn, an army led by Robert the Bruce defeated troops led by whom? A: Edward II
Q: What is a dish that originated in 19th-century Russia, of sauted pieces of beef served in a sauce with sour cream? A: Beef Stroganoff
Q: Which autonomous region within the Kingdom of the Netherlands is a 33-kilometre (21 mile) long island with a land area of 193 km2 (75 sq miles) in the southern Caribbean Sea? A: Aruba
Q: What Canadian-born British newspaper proprietor was granted a peerage in 1917, was the first Minister of Information responsible for allied propaganda in allied and neutral countries in 1918 and, during World War II, was Minister of Aircraft Production and Minister of Supply? A: Lord Beaverbrook
Q: Which cricketer scored 158 runs in 2005 to secure the ashes for England? A: Kevin Pietersen
Q: What does FRCP after someone's name mean? A: Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
Q: In the American War of 1812 against Great Britain the ship now known as Old Ironsides defeated five British warships (HMS Guerriere, HMS Java, HMS Pictou, HMS Cyane and HMS Levant). She is still afloat. What name was she commissioned under? A: USS Constitution
Q: "In which sport do participants compete for ""the Auld Mug""?" A: Yachting
Q: "Who played ""Charlie"" in the 2005 film ""Charlie and the Chocolate Factory""?" A: Freddie Highmore
Q: "What is the name of the killer rat that features in the 1973 film ""Willard""?" A: Ben
Q: "What nationality is Richard O'Brien, the writer of the stage musical ""The Rocky Horror Show""?" A: New Zealander
Q: In which state of Australia would you find the Snowy Mountains? A: New South Wales
Q: In Greek mythology, what was left in Pandora's box after the evils, ills, diseases, and burdensome labour had escaped? A: Hope
Q: A film released in 2000 starring Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Robert Knott, Bud Cort, Molly Regan, Marcia Gay Harden and Sada Thompson tells the life story of which painter? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: What name is given to a railway in which a cable attached to a pair of vehicles on rails moves them up and down a steep slope, the ascending and descending vehicles counterbalancing each other? A: Funicular
Q: Ronnie Scott's club in London is the venue for what kind of music? A: Jazz
Q: What is the name for the largest of the living primates, that are ground-dwelling and predominantly herbivorous, inhabiting the forests of central Africa? A: Gorilla
Q: What nationality is Marat Safin, who won his first Grand Slam tennis tournament at the US Open in 2000? A: Russian
Q: What is the title of Geri Halliwell's 1999 autobiography? A: If Only
Q: What date is famous for four co-ordinated terrorist attacks in the USA on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and the United States Capitol? A: September 11 2001
Q: Four countries have observer status to the Arab League, which entitles them to express their opinion and give advice but denies them voting rights. They are Eritrea, Brazil, Venezuela and which other? A: India
Q: Anthony Bourdain is famous in what profession? A: Chef
Q: In a 1956 interview with the American journalist Anna Louise Strong, Mao Zedong described the USA as a paper what? A: Tiger
Q: The iron pillar of Delhi, India, a 7 meter (22 feet) high pillar that is 98% pure wrought iron, has withstood corrosion in the open air for how long? A: Over 1,600 years
Q: What alloy is created from copper and tin? A: Bronze
Q: Which squash player was unbeaten for over 150 consecutive matches between 1981 and 1986? A: Jahangir Khan
Q: A courgette is a type of what? A: Vegetable
Q: What name was given to the conflict between Great Britain and Spain from 1739 to 1748, with major operations largely ended by 1742? A: The War of Jenkins' Ear
Q: In 1997 at the World Snooker Championship, who made the fastest-recorded maximum break of 147? A: Ronnie O'Sullivan
Q: Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 in D minor (Op. 125) is known as what? A: Choral
Q: Golfer Vijay Singh, who was number one in the Official World Golf Rankings for 32 weeks in 2004 and 2005, was born where? A: Fiji
Q: "What real person did Martin Landau portray when he won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor in the 1994 film ""Ed Wood""?" A: Bela Lugosi
Q: Serengeti National Park is on what continent? A: Africa
Q: David Palmer, Amr Shabana, Thierry Lincou and Ramy Ashour have been World Open Champions in which sport in this century? A: Squash
Q: "Who was in all of these films: ""Alfie"", ""The Man Who Would Be King"", ""Educating Rita"", ""Little Voice"", ""Batman Begins"", ""The Dark Knight"", ""Last Orders"" and ""The Quiet American""?" A: Michael Caine
Q: Which English soccer player, whose career playing first class soccer ran from 1956 to 1973, was England's most capped player (106) when he retired from the England team in 1970? A: Bobby Charlton
Q: Susan, Lucy, Edmund and Peter Pevensie are children who appear in what 2005 film, based on the novel by C. S. Lewis? A: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
Q: Derek Jacobi played Claudius in which BBC TV series? A: I, Claudius
Q: The island of Angelsey is in which country? A: Wales
Q: What was the name of a set of 3 treaties signed between the USA and the Kiowa, Comanche, Plains Apache, Southern Cheyenne and Southern Arapaho between 21 and 28 October 1867, requiring them to relocate to areas in present-day western Oklahoma? A: The Medicine Lodge Treaty
Q: The main religion in Tibet is a style of what? A: Buddhism
Q: The colours red and blue mixed together makes what other colour? A: Purple
Q: "How many volumes are there in Spike Milligan's autobiography, the last volume of which was entitled ""PeaceWork""?" A: 6
Q: Which river flows through the Grand Canyon in Arizona, USA? A: Colorado
Q: How many legs do most crabs have? A: 8
Q: "What 2009 science fiction disaster film starring John Cusack, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Amanda Peet, Oliver Platt, Danny Glover, Thandie Newton, and Woody Harrelson references Mayanism and the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, depicting a series of ""Doomsday"" scenarios that plunge the world into chaos?" A: 2012
Q: What was the subject of the referendum held in Australia 1999? A: To become a republic
Q: "A 1986 film starring Richard E. Grant and Paul McGann, described as ""one of Britain's biggest cult films"", is what "" ... and I""?" A: Withnail
Q: What field of work is Alessandro Volta (1745-1827) best known for? A: Electricity
Q: In 1284, Prince Edward (later King Edward II of England), the first son born to Edward I of England, was the first English-born what? A: Prince of Wales
Q: What do golf balls have on the outside? A: Dimples
Q: Australian Joan Sutherland is connected with what activity? A: Opera
Q: "Who had her first major movie role in ""Crossroads"" (2002), a comedy-drama film that also starred Dan Aykroyd and Kim Cattrall?" A: Britney Spears
Q: What dish would you expect if you asked for Fettuccine in an Italian restaurant? A: Pasta
Q: """The Grand Old Duke Of York"" was whose son?" A: George III
Q: What film studio was founded by Cecil B De Mille and J L Lasky in 1913? A: Paramount
Q: Polocrosse is a sport combining polo and what else? A: Lacrosse
Q: Who is the only US president to have served two non-consecutive terms and is therefore counted as both the 22nd and 24th president? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: """Shock Treatment"" was the sequel to which musical?" A: Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: Who was made Archbishop of Canterbury under Henry VIII, introduced 2 prayer books under Edward VI, and was executed for heresy under Mary I? A: Thomas Cranmer
Q: The secretary bird is native to which continent? A: Africa
Q: "What worldwide movement describing itself as ""a fellowship of men and women"" was co-founded in 1935 by Bill Wilson and Dr. Bob Smith in Akron, Ohio?" A: Alcoholics Anonymous
Q: Which team won the inaugural Fast5 World Netball Series, first contested in October 2009, which had modified rules (and was compared to Twenty20 cricket and rugby sevens)? A: New Zealand
Q: The Richter scale measures the intensity of what? A: Earthquakes
Q: "Who directed the films ""Miracle's Boys"", ""Inside Man"", ""When The Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts"", ""Miracle at St. Anna"", ""Passing Strange"" and ""Kobe Doin' Work""?" A: Spike Lee
Q: If you were to fly due east from the southernmost pont of the Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego what is the next land mass, bigger than the island you set out from, which you would meet? A: Tierra del Fuego
Q: Thomas Hughes wrote about the schooldays of which of the Browns? A: Tom
Q: What is a mixture of saturated aliphatic and alicyclic C7 to C12 hydrocarbons with a maximum content of 25% of C7 to C12 alkyl aromatic hydrocarbons, which is used as an extraction, cleaning and degreasing solvent, and as a solvent in aerosols, paints, wood preservatives, lacquers, varnishes, and asphalt products? A: White spirit
Q: "Who is known for his law of elasticity, his book, ""Micrographia"", and for first applying the word ""cell"" to describe the basic unit of life?" A: Robert Hooke
Q: Where is the most easterly point in South America? A: Brazil
Q: "Who played the first doctor in the UK TV series ""Dr Who""?" A: William Hartnell
Q: "What philosopher, sometimes known by the honorific of ""K'ung Fu-tzu"" and born in BCE 551, has recently had his name given to a Peace Prize ?" A: Confucius
Q: "What is the more common name for Chopin's ""Waltz in D Flat Major""?" A: The Minute Waltz
Q: What was the last royal capital of the Burmese kingdom before its annexation by the British in 1885 when King Thibaw and Queen Supayalat were exiled after the Third Anglo-Burmese War? A: Mandalay
Q: What was the stage name of Bernard Jewry? A: Alvin Stardust
Q: Where was the first IOC-run Olympics held in the 21st century? A: Salt Lake City, USA
Q: In Greek legend, what were Stheno, Euryale and Medusa, winged female monsters with snakes for hair who turned mortals to stone if they looked directly at them? A: Gorgons
Q: The left and right ventricles and the left and right atriums are found where in the human body? A: Heart
Q: When was camogie established as a sport? A: 1903
Q: What was the first standardised system of measurement established in Mesopotamia? A: Royal gur-cube
Q: A coup in February 2010 led by Colonel Djibril Adamou Harouna displaced president Mamadou Tandja in which country? A: Niger
Q: "Which Noble Order of Knighthood, whose motto is ""honi soit qui mal y pense"" was founded in 1348 in England by King Edward III?" A: Order of the Garter
Q: "When his Late String Quartets were first performed in the 1820s, listeners described them variously as ""indecipherable, uncorrected horrors"" and ""we know there is something there, but we do not know what it is"". Who was the composer?" A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: The Great Fire of London in 1666 happened when which King was on the British throne? A: Charles II
Q: What robe is part of Japanese traditional costume? A: Kimono
Q: According to Malory and Tennyson who was the son of Lancelot and Elaine, raised by nuns and knighted on his arrival at Camelot? A: Galahad
Q: In 2003, Kate Winslet married (and subsequently had two children with) whom? A: Sam Mendes
Q: What equipment is used in a tug o war contest? A: A rope
Q: "Tom Cruise played which role in the 1996 film ""Jerry Maguire""?" A: Jerry Maguire
Q: A drake is the adult male of which bird? A: Duck
Q: Prior to the coming of William the Conqueror in 1066 where was the capital of England situated? A: Winchester
Q: "Which standard recurring character Batman comic book character did not appear in the film ""Batman"" (1989) nor ""Batman Returns"" (1992), but was in ""Batman Forever"" (1995) and ""Batman & Robin"" (1997)?" A: Robin
Q: On which continent are the native fauna called ostrich, lion, giraffe and okapi? A: Africa
Q: "What band released the albums ""Wild Life"", ""Red Rose Speedway"", ""At the Speed of Sound"", ""London Town"" and Back to the Egg"" between 1971 and 1979?" A: Wings
Q: What year did South African golfer Gary Player first win the PGA Championship? A: 1962
Q: Where is the second regional gallery in the Tate Gallery network, that was opened in 1993? A: St Ives, Cornwall
Q: "The libretto for Giacomo Puccini's opera ""Tosca"" was based on a play written by the playwright Victorien Sardou for performance by which actress?" A: Sarah Bernhardt
Q: What instrument is traditionally played by the leader of an orchestra? A: Violin
Q: The Jungfrau mountain is in which country? A: Switzerland
Q: In ancient Rome, what was the title of a magistrate who was next in importance to a consul? A: Praetor
Q: Where did Henry Ford, in the early twentieth century, establish the Ford Motor Company? A: Detroit, USA
Q: Solitaire is typically for how many players? A: One
Q: Lake Chad, the second largest wetland in Africa, is shared by the Republic of Chad, the Republic of Cameroon, Nigeria and which other country? A: The Republic of Niger
Q: "Who made the musical sculptures called ""Pythagoras"", ""Kepler"" & ""Galileo"" that were installed between the tracks of Kendall Station in Cambridge, Massachusetts from 1987 to 2007?" A: Paul Matisse
Q: When was windsurfing accepted as an Olympic sport? A: 1984
Q: Someone who has an abnormal fear of dogs is suffering from what? A: Cynophobia
Q: William Shakespeare wrote plays set in Italy, Denmark, Scotland, England, Greece, Troy, Egypt, Tyre and more; what was his nationality? A: English
Q: "In the Alfred Hitchcock film ""Psycho"", where did the murder take place?" A: In the shower
Q: What is the last US federal holiday in a calendar year? A: Christmas Day
Q: "Tolstoy's book ""War and Peace"" is set when?" A: Napoleonic Wars
Q: G. H. Armauer Hansen discovered the cause of what disease in 1873? A: Leprosy
Q: What plant, a bushy herb of the mint family, has a heavy, strong scent, and has been used for centuries in perfumes? A: Patchouli
Q: "What do the notes for the ""euro"" have on the front (recto)?" A: Windows or gateways
Q: What was the occupation of Polish trade unionist and politician Lech Walesa? A: Electrician
Q: In mediaeval falconry, which social level was most commonly associated with a goshawk? A: Yeoman
Q: "Who was expelled from school, owned two failed businesses, worked for the Northampton Repertory Company and appeared in the film ""Murder at Monte Carlo"", where he was discovered by a Warner Brothers executive and went on to make 58 films?" A: Errol Flynn
Q: The island of Madagascar is off the coast of which African mainland country? A: Mozambique
Q: The fifteen elements with atomic numbers 57 to 71, which includes Lanthanum (La), Cerium (Ce), Praseodymium (Pr), Neodymium (Nd), Promethium (Pm), Europium (Eu), Erbium (Er), Thulium (Tm), Ytterbium (Yb) and Lutetium (Lu), are known as what? A: Lanthanoid series
Q: What nationality was Abel Janszoon Tasman the voyager, explorer and map maker? A: Dutch
Q: "Who was the (subsequently) Pulitzer-Prize-winning American playwright who wrote ""The Odd Couple""?" A: Neil Simon
Q: Which South American country extends the furthest east? A: Brazil
Q: How many different people were Prime Minister of Australia in the first 100 years after it became a Dominion in 1901? A: 25
Q: Who created and performed the most soundtracks for the film Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps? A: David Byrne and Brian Eno
Q: Prepatellar bursitis is more commonly known as what? A: Housemaid's knee
Q: "The line ""Greed, for lack of a better word, is good. Greed is right. Greed works. Greed clarifies, cuts through, and captures, the essence of the evolutionary spirit. Greed, in all of its forms; greed for life, for money, for love, knowledge, has marked the upward surge of mankind ..."" is from which film?" A: Wall Street
Q: What is the largest island administered by the People's Republic of China, which is due east of Vietnam? A: Hainan
Q: "What is a mythological ""xana""?" A: Fairy
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""Paradise Lost""?" A: John Milton
Q: In May 2001, Christopher Bailey was appointed creative director of which British luxury fashion house that manufactures clothing, fragrances and fashion accessories? A: Burberry
Q: "Which film actor (1895-1926) is known for his films ""The Four Horsemen"", ""The Sheik"" and ""Blood And Sand""?" A: Rudolph Valentino
Q: Who was said to have interceded to save the life of Captain John Smith, was later taken hostage and held at Jamestown, married John Rolfe, came to England and died at Gravesend in 1617? A: Pocahontas
Q: "What describes a variable signal that is continuous in time and amplitude, that can be seen as the opposite of ""digital""?" A: Analogue
Q: Curling stones are currently made of what? A: Granite
Q: "What type of building in the Roman forum, the largest of its type there, was called ""Julia""?" A: Basilica
Q: What style of French painting, influenced by Flemish and Dutch Baroque and Italian styles, with schools developed around Caravaggio and Peter Paul Rubens, was practised by Georges de la Tour, Simon Vouet, and the Le Nain brothers? A: Louis XIII
Q: Who commited suicide after she was abandoned by Aeneas? A: Dido
Q: "Who played the joker in the 2008 film ""The Dark Knight""?" A: Heath Ledger
Q: "What term for a style of post-Impressionist painting with bold and flat forms separated by dark contours, a famous example odf which is Paul Gauguin's ""The Yellow Christ"" (1889), was coined by critic Edouard Dujardin in 1888?" A: Cloisonnism
Q: Which river runs through the cities of Turin, Piacenza and Ferrara, and is connected to Milan through a network of channels? A: Po
Q: Which official knocks three times on the doors to the chamber of the House of Commons at the state opening of a British parliament? A: Black Rod
Q: Which Canadian-born bandleader and violinist formed The Royal Canadians in 1924 with his brothers Carmen, Lebert and Victor? A: Guy Lombardo
Q: Corcovado mountain overlooks which city? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: The cruciate ligaments are in which part of the human body? A: Legs
Q: What was astronaut Buzz Aldrin's first name? A: Edwin
Q: Abu Simbel is in which country? A: Egypt
Q: Which film, directed by Frank Capra, starring Gary Cooper and Jean Arthur, concerns a man from Vermont who tries to share his inheritance? A: Mr Deeds Goes To Town
Q: Where was Geoff Ogilvie, the 2006 US Open golf tournament winner, born? A: Australia
Q: What name was given to both of the Acts that united the parliaments of England and Scotand in 1707, and those of Britain and Ireland in 1800? A: Act of Union
Q: What is a Chinese-inspired meat dumpling-style snack food that normally consists of a large ball of pork or other meat, cabbage and flavourings, encased in a wrapper similar to that of a more traditional dumpling? A: Dim sim
Q: He was a founding member, songwriter, and guitarist with the rock band Magic Alex, made his professional acting debut in 1992 in UK TV, and in TV has starred alongside Robbie Coltrane, Philip Glenister, David Tennant and Jim Broadbent. Who is he? A: John Simm
Q: A single flame gas burner frequently used in student science laboratories is named after whom? A: Robert Bunsen
Q: The Treaty of Peace with Japan (also known as the Treaty of San Francisco and the San Francisco Peace Treaty), signed by 49 nations that officially ended World War II, came into effect in what year? A: 1952
Q: """Facebook"" was launched in what year?" A: 2004
Q: "What was the name of the TV producer who started what became a long and outstanding career by establishing the UK TV series ""Dr Who"" in 1963?" A: Verity Lambert
Q: Where are the Indy Car races held? A: Indianapolis, USA
Q: By what name is the wife of Leofric, Earl of Mercia, who lived near Coventry in the 11th century, better known? A: Lady Godiva
Q: Who was the first person to sign the American Declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: What is the capital of the Australian state of Tasmania? A: Hobart
Q: Leonardo DiCaprio and Mark Ruffalo play US Marshalls investigating the disappearance of a psychiatric patient in the 1950s in which 2010 film directed by Martin Scorsese? A: Shutter Island
Q: What is an alchemist likely to be searching for? A: Philosopher's stone
Q: "What language does the word ""orienteering"" come from?" A: Swedish
Q: """Hobson-Jobson"" is the short title of a book written by Henry Yule and Arthur C. Burnell, first published in 1886, that contains what?" A: Anglo-Indian words and terms
Q: "Which American serial killer raped and murdered at least 33 young men and boys between 1972 and 1978, burying many in the crawl space underneath his home, who became known as ""Killer Clown"" for entertaining children in a clown suit and makeup as ""Pogo the Clown""?" A: John Wayne Gacy, Jr
Q: What element has the symbol Cu? A: Copper
Q: In what kind of establishment was the TV series Fawlty Towers set? A: Hotel
Q: What is a means for storing movies and so on, on a disc? A: DVD
Q: A sabre is what type of weapon? A: Sword
Q: Where would one encounter a rim shot? A: Music
Q: Who was the Roman god of wine and fertility? A: Bacchus
Q: When was the gambling casino, Monte Carlo, first opened in Monaco? A: 1856
Q: Which author is the ex-wife of British designer, restaurateur, retailer and writer Sir Terence and the mother of designers Sebastian and Jasper? A: Shirley Conran
Q: How many bones are there in the human backbone, including the five that are fused to form the sacrum and the coccyx? A: 33
Q: What sport is played at an international level by ngel Cabrera, Jim Furyk, Retief Goosen, Stewart Cink, Pdraig Harrington, Sergio Garca, Henrik Stenson & Fred Funk? A: Golf
Q: Awarded since 1955, what is the name of the highest prize for competing films at the Cannes Film Festival? A: The Palme d'Or
Q: "Who had 2 hit records in his short career, ""Bad, Bad Leroy Brown"" & ""Time in a Bottle""?" A: Jim Croce
Q: "The dessert ""sachertorte"" contains what main ingredient?" A: Chocolate
Q: What is directly opposite south southeast on a compass? A: North northwest
Q: Whose visit to Vietnam in November 2000 was the first by a U.S. President since the end of the Vietnam War? A: Bill Clinton
Q: Oak Ridge, Tennessee is widely associated with what? A: The Manhattan Project
Q: "How many years did the musical ""Cats"" run for in London's West End?" A: 21
Q: Which space telescope was carried into orbit by the space shuttle in April 1990? A: Hubble
Q: "Who wrote the line ""In Xanadu did Kublai Khan a stately pleasure dome decree""?" A: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
Q: Where would one go to see Moai? A: Easter Island
Q: Covering 75,000 square km, what is the world's largest river delta? A: Ganges-Brahmaputra
Q: Which Polynesian island nation of 4 reef islands and 5 true atolls in the Pacific Ocean, midway between Hawaii and Australia, formerly known as the Ellice Islands, became fully independent within the Commonwealth in 1978? A: Tuvalu
Q: "Hamlet's thought: ""The play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of ...""?" A: The king
Q: What title did King Edward VIII of the UK take after his abdication? A: Duke of Windsor
Q: Who did George W. Bush beat for the US presidency in 2000? A: Al Gore
Q: When was the first message transmitted between UK and the USA by submarine telegraph cable? A: 1858
Q: In 2010, the International Cricket Council turned down a nomination for Vice President from ex-Australian Prime Minister John Howard in favour of one from Alan Isaac, who was from which country? A: New Zealand
Q: The world's first passenger railway operated between which two stations? A: Stockton & Darlington
Q: What lies due east of Uruguay? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: Herbert Hoover and his wife Lou Henry Hoover often had public conversations in which language so that people could not eavesdrop on them? A: Mandarin Chinese
Q: "The long-running murder mystery play, ""The Mousetrap"" by Agatha Christie, was developed from an earlier radio play by the same author called what?" A: Three Blind Mice
Q: She was known during her training and work as Nora Baker, and was posthumously awarded a British George Cross, appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire and awarded a French Croix de Guerre with Gold Star. What was her real name? A: Noor Inayat Khan
Q: Koalas are native to which country? A: Australia
Q: "Who works in ""The Oval Office""?" A: US President
Q: In which sea is the island of Barbados? A: Caribbean
Q: What is produced from milk curds, and is drained, not pressed, so some whey remains and the individual curds remain loose? A: Cottage cheese
Q: The Beach Soccer World Championship began in 1995 and became the Beach Soccer World Cup in 2005. Which country has won the contest most often since 1995? A: Brazil
Q: What powers the form of transport known as lectica (ancient Rome), jiao (China), sedan chair (England), palanquin (India), gama (Korea) and tahtrevan (Turkey)? A: Humans
Q: Bela Lugosi's most famous role was as who? A: Dracula
Q: The young of what is called a squab? A: Pigeon
Q: Who is the only boxer to be the WBA Heavyweight Champion four times? A: Evander Holyfield
Q: Who was a session musician from Harlesden, North London, England who played for leading UK independent producers Shel Talmy and Mickie Most and performed on albums and singles by The Kinks, The Move, The Who, The Rolling Stones, The Beatles, Donovan, Jeff Beck, Jefferson Airplane, and the Steve Miller Band? A: Nicky Hopkins
Q: "The phrase ""wardrobe malfunction"" entered pop music vocabulary following a performance at the Super Bowl XXXVIII between Janet Jackson and which other singer?" A: Justin Timberlake
Q: The tibia and fibula are found where in the human body? A: Lower leg
Q: "According to Tennyson in ""The Passing of Arthur"", which knight stayed with the dying King Arthur to the end and threw the sword Excalibur into the lake?" A: Bedivere
Q: Which car maker has marketed models called Jazz, Accord, Civic and Legend? A: Honda
Q: What bird has the widest wingspan? A: Albatross
Q: Where would you find the Caves of Altamira, famous for prehistoric paintings on the rock? A: Spain
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""The World Is Not ... """ A: Enough
Q: "What band's lead singer is known as ""Suggs""?" A: Madness
Q: According to Ovid, a giant called Argus had his hundred what preserved forever in a peacock's tail, by the goddess Hera? A: Eyes
Q: Which TV series concentrated on the death of Laura Palmer? A: Twin Peaks
Q: The Straits of Florida go between the Gulf of Mexico and where? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: Who ordered the building of the Great Pyramid of Giza? A: Khufu
Q: Whose remains, after he died in 1506 at Valladolid, Mexico, were taken to San Domingo then Havana, and then, in 1898, to Seville? A: Christopher Columbus
Q: What is the city where the White Nile flowing north from Lake Victoria meets the Blue Nile flowing west from Ethiopia? A: Khartoum
Q: Platelets fulfil what function in human blood? A: Clotting
Q: Henry Croft, an orphan street sweeper who collected money for charity, is associated with what organised charitable tradition of working class culture in London, England? A: Pearly Kings and Queens
Q: Jarlsberg cheese comes from which country? A: Norway
Q: The Gunpowder Plot, planned for 5 November 1605, was an attempt by a group of Catholics to blow up the English parliament and which monarch? A: James I
Q: When was Vatican City, the smallest independent sovereign state in the world, established? A: 1929
Q: "What was the ""Lord of the Rings"" character Gollum originally?" A: Hobbit
Q: A modified version of which type of weapon was designed by US frontiersman Jim Bowie? A: Knife
Q: What is the study of the production of very low temperature and the behaviour of materials at those temperatures? A: Cryogenics
Q: "What rock is where the ""Pilgrim Fathers"" are said to have landed in North America in 1620?" A: Plymouth
Q: Which team beat the defending champions, Russia, 21 in the final of the 2010 Ice Hockey World Championships? A: Czech Republic
Q: Sake is fermented from what? A: Rice
Q: What do Viva la Vida, No Line on the Horizon, Spore and the Sirocco have in common? A: Brian Eno
Q: What is the collective name for table items such as salt, mustard, vinegar and pepper? A: Condiments
Q: "Which British ruler was nicknamed ""The Merry Monarch""?" A: Charles II
Q: Which country voted in November 2012 to work to become the 51st state of the USA? A: Puerto Rico
Q: Which World Championship inaugurated in 1963 has been dominated primarily by the Australian and New Zealand national teams? A: Netball
Q: What Hindu practice involves a widow throwing herself onto her husband's funeral pyre? A: Suttee
Q: What is the name for the coloured part around the pupil of the eye? A: Iris
Q: "The 1983 film ""Staying Alive"" was the sequel to what film?" A: Saturday Night Fever
Q: "The ""Big Day Out"" is what?" A: A music festival
Q: John Muir is known as the father of which US national institution? A: National Park service
Q: What name is given to the area above the stage into which scenery can be raised? A: Flies
Q: The Tour de France is traditionally held in what month of the year? A: July
Q: Following the 1997 return of Hong Kong to the People's Republic of China to become a special administrative region, Macau was returned to become its second special administrative region. When was that? A: 1999
Q: A businessman with the surname of Masterley is the subject of a comic strip. What is his first name, and the title of the strip? A: Alex
Q: "Which conductor of the Worcester Glee Club from 1879 to 1889, went on to write ""The Enigma Variations"" and ""The Dream of Gerontius""?" A: Edward Elgar
Q: Rameses the Great presided over what empire? A: Egyptian
Q: In Christian chronology when is the 'Feast of Stephen'? A: 26 December
Q: What is the world's largest invertebrate? A: Colossal squid
Q: Which two countries between them have won every Netball World Championship since its inception in 1963? A: Australia and New Zealand
Q: Where was the first FIFA Club World Championship, a football competition contested between the world's champion clubs, held in 2000? A: Brazil
Q: What is the name of the large seat covered with red cloth, being the seat of the Lord Speaker in the House of Lords, the Upper House of the UK Parliament? A: The Woolsack
Q: """Campbell's Soup Cans"", produced in 1962 by Andy Warhol, consists of a number of canvases, each 20 inches by 16 inches (50.8 x 40.6 cm), each with a painting of a can. How many canvases are there?" A: 32
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia from 1964 to 1965 and the first Prime Minister of Rhodesia from 1965 to 1979? A: Ian Smith
Q: "Which Scotswoman is an Oscar, Brit and Grammy award-winning pop musician and vocalist who, after 3 years as lead singer of ""The Tourists"", formed the duo ""Eurythmics"" with British musician Dave Stewart?" A: Annie Lennox
Q: "What machine, that enables a person to breathe when the work of breathing exceeds their ability to do so, was invented by Phillip Drinker and Louis Agassiz Shaw in 1928 and improved upon by John Haven ""Jack"" Emerson in 1931?" A: Iron lung
Q: "What is the country of origin of the cheese called ""edam""?" A: Netherlands
Q: Who was the mother of Queen Elizabeth I of England? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: Which phrase that first came to public attention as a U.S. television commercial for the Wendy's chain of hamburger restaurants in 1984 became associated with the 1984 U.S. presidential election when Walter Mondale ridiculed Gary Hart's candidacy? A: Where's the beef?
Q: Vermicide is used to kill what? A: Worms
Q: What is the mental disorder OCD? A: Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder
Q: What cemetery near Sturgis, South Dakota, is associated with a gold rush, land wars, and a famous 19th century last stand? A: Black Hills National Cemetery
Q: "Who wrote the book ""In His Own Write"", published in March 1964, and the follow up, ""A Spaniard in the Works"", published in June 1965?" A: John Lennon
Q: What was the occupation of Willy Loman in the play written in 1949 by Arthur Miller? A: Salesman
Q: "Who wrote the lyrics to Burt Bacharach's music for the songs including ""The Look of Love"", ""Walk on By"", ""Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head"", ""This Guy's in Love with You"" and ""I'll Never Fall in Love Again""?" A: Hal David
Q: "Who was the writer of the books on which the UK comedy TV series ""Doctor in the House"" (1969-70) were based?" A: Richard Gordon
Q: Charles II was the sovereign during which period of British history? A: Restoration
Q: What provides the staple diet of a koala? A: Eucalyptus tree
Q: The pirate radio station Radio Caroline was named after the daughter of which US President? A: John F Kennedy
Q: "During the production of the Disney animated feature ""Fantasia"", what nickname was given by the animation department to the unnamed sorcerer in ""The Sorcerer's Apprentice"" segment?" A: Yen Sid
Q: "Which country has, at various times, been known as ""Kingdom of"" (1918), ""Democratic Federal"" (1943) ""Federal People's Republic of"" (1946), ""Socialist Federal Republic of"" (1963) and ""Federal Republic of"" (1992 to 2003)?" A: Yugoslavia
Q: A relatively modern religion laying claim to roots in an ancient belief system is...? A: Wiccan
Q: When was Credit Anstalt, the first bank in Vienna, founded? A: 1820
Q: Valentino Rossi, Jorge Lorenzo, Dani Pedrosa & Andrea Dovizioso compete in what sport? A: Motorcycling
Q: "How many proper nouns are there in the sentence ""On Saturday Ruth is going to fly in an Airbus 380 with her son Christopher and her daughter Naomi to Phoenix, Arizona to attend a family reunion.""?" A: 7
Q: The Statue of Liberty in New York Harbour was a gift in 1886 to the USA by whom? A: The people of France
Q: "Who plays Gail Platt in the British TV soap opera ""Coronation Street""?" A: Helen Worth
Q: At which event, in 2010, was Francesca Schiavone the first Italian woman to win a tennis Grand Slam event in singles? A: French Open
Q: Who developed the live attenuated polio vaccine which has led to hopes of global eradication of the virus? A: Albert Sabin
Q: Which country annexed Korea in 1910? A: Japan
Q: The White Witch, Madagascan Sunset, Luna and Gypsy are varieties of what? A: Moth
Q: Two wars fought in 1880-1881 and then in 1899-1902 in South Africa are known as what? A: Boer Wars
Q: China is the world's biggest tea producer. Which is the second biggest? A: India
Q: Who won the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize? A: Al Gore
Q: Who was First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: Nikita Khrushchev
Q: "What does the Latin phrase ""ad infinitum"" mean?" A: Forever
Q: How many tusks does a typical adult male walrus have? A: 2
Q: In architecture, what is the space around the altar at the liturgical east end of a traditional Christian church building? A: Chancel
Q: The partition of India, formalised in 1947, was characterised by religious tension and violence between Hindus and people of which other major religious group? A: Muslim
Q: What is name for the holistic, global, comparative study of humans (the comprehensive study of human beings and of their interactions with each other and the environment), which has its intellectual origins in both the natural sciences and the humanities? A: Anthropology
Q: The largest river in China and among the largest in the world, it is variously known over its length as Ulan Moron, Dangqu, Tongtian, Jinsha, Sichuan, Jing and Dajiang, and has been called the Kiang and the Blue River. By what name is it now most often known outside China? A: Yangtze
Q: What was the area now known as the Mekong Delta called in the 19th century? A: Cochinchina
Q: Which country lies between Libya and Algeria? A: Tunisia
Q: What is the chemical symbol for copper? A: Cu
Q: Ayers, Blake's Pride, Concorde and Louise Bonne are types of what? A: Pear
Q: What was the first name of Gandhi, the political and spiritual leader of India during the Indian independence movement? A: Mohandas
Q: The peace treaty, the Treaty of Versailles at the end of World War I, was signed between the Allied Powers and which nation? A: Germany
Q: What does a trichologist treat? A: Hair
Q: "Who played James Herriot in the British TV series (1978 1990) ""All Creatures Great and Small""?" A: Christopher Timothy
Q: The Matterhorn is on the border between which two countries? A: Switzerland and Italy
Q: The Polisario Front disputes which country for control of the Western Sahara? A: Morocco
Q: In film and photography, what is the name for the distance in front of and behind the subject which appears to be in focus? A: Depth of field
Q: In 1992, Boutros Boutros-Ghali became head of what organisation? A: United Nations
Q: What was the name of the security organisation that operated in East Germany during the Cold War? A: STASI
Q: What is the name of the chemical that naturally occurs in sheep's wool? A: Lanolin
Q: Otto Lilienthal was an inventor whose designs and practice led to the first practical what in the 1890s? A: Hang glider
Q: What are Argon, Helium, Nitrogen, Neon and Xenon? A: Inert gases
Q: The three countries which border the Gulf of Aden are the Yemeni Republic, the Republic of Djibouti, and...? A: Somalia
Q: Zonker, Boopsie and Roland Hedley appear in which comic strip? A: Doonesbury
Q: How many countries in South America have land which lies south of the equator? A: 8
Q: Who in the 16th century founded the Society of Jesus, the Jesuits? A: Ignatius de Loyola
Q: "Who appeared in the films ""The Parent Trap"" (1998), ""Freaky Friday"" (2003), ""Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen"" (2004), ""Mean Girls"" (2004), ""Herbie: Fully Loaded"" (2005), ""Bobby"" (2006) and ""Machete"" (2010)?" A: Lindsay Lohan
Q: "Two of the characters in the US TV sitcom ""The Big Bang Theory"" are fans of work by whom, the source for their respective names?" A: Sheldon Leonard
Q: Which of the four Gospels in the Christian New Testament is not a synoptic gospel? A: John
Q: What is the name for the protein which is the main constituent of hair, horns, nails, claws and hooves of mammals? A: Keratin
Q: Saint-Etienne is a city in which country? A: France
Q: What thick rich soup is made from lobster or shellfish? A: Bisque
Q: What was the first antibiotic remedy for tuberculosis, first isolated on 19 October 1943 by Albert Schatz, a graduate student, in the laboratory of Selman Abraham Waksman at Rutgers University? A: Streptomycin
Q: "In the film ""Home Alone"", what is the name of the character who is left alone at Christmas, played by Macaulay Culkin?" A: Kevin
Q: Who invented the saxophone in 1840? A: Adolphe Sax
Q: The smallest internationally recognised country on mainland Africa is completely surrounded by what other country? A: Senegal
Q: Who is credited with overseeing the development of the computer mouse? A: Douglas Engelbart
Q: The Little Red Book was required reading by whom? A: Mao Zedong
Q: Classical Greek theatre, and several current theatre spaces, such as La Boite in Australia, The Globe in Canada, Blue Orange Theatre in the UK, L'Europen in France and Theatre '47 in the USA, specialise in what style of performance? A: Theatre in the round
Q: When were the first commercially available wingsuits for skydiving made? A: 1999
Q: In which part of the body would you find the bone called the trapezium? A: Wrist
Q: In the stories by Enid Blyton, what is the name of the best friend of Big Ears? A: Noddy
Q: David Furnish, Canadian filmmaker and former advertising executive is the husband of which performer? A: Elton John
Q: A Hawaiian pizza is topped with ham and what else? A: Pineapple
Q: What body of water surrounds the Seychelles? A: Indian Ocean
Q: Between 2000 and 2010, how many times had Venus and Serena Williams met in a Wimbledon Ladies' Singles Final? A: 4
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of wisdom, war and the liberal arts? A: Pallas Athene
Q: The USA purchased Alaska in 1867; when did it become one of the states in the United States? A: 1959
Q: Who is a saxophone player from Slaton, Texas, who has performed with musicians such as Bobby Vee, Buddy Holly, The Who, The Rolling Stones, Eric Clapton and Joe Cocker's Mad Dogs and Englishmen? A: Bobby Keys
Q: The Angus, Australian Lowline, Blue Albion, Florida Cracker, Hereford, Romagnola, Tasmanian Grey and Whitebred Shorthorn are all types of what? A: Cattle
Q: It premiered at the Olivier Theatre in the Royal National Theatre in London, UK, using life-size, non-human puppets. What was the play? A: War Horse
Q: Which point on the African coast stands most closely to the point where the Atlantic Ocean meets the Mediterranean Sea? A: Cape Spartel
Q: What 1983 film directed by Brian De Palma, scripted by Oliver Stone and starring Al Pacino as Tony Montana, is based on Howard Hawks's 1932 biopic of Al Capone? A: Scarface
Q: Who was the Roman equivalent of the Greek goddess of nature and mother of the earth, Demeter? A: Ceres
Q: "Writers of episodes for the UK comedy TV series ""Doctor in the House"" (1969-70) included comic artists Graham Chapman, Barry Cryer, Graeme Garden, Bill Oddie, Bernard McKenna and who else?" A: John Cleese
Q: What better describes the game of Scrabble? A: Word game
Q: The ports of Astrakhan and Baku are on which body of water? A: Caspian Sea
Q: "Who was the subject of the film ""I'm Not There"", and did not appear in it?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: Tenzing Norgay was famous for his activities in what field? A: Mountaineering
Q: Sigmund Freud coined the term Oedipus complex to describe the tendency for a male to want to kill his father and marry his mother. What did he call the female equivalent (of a female being attached to her father and wishing to replace her mother)? A: Electra complex
Q: According to Christian tradition, which angel will blow his trumpet on judgement day? A: Gabriel
Q: When was the FAI, the Fdration Aronautique Internationale which governs air sports, aeronautics and astronautics world records, founded? A: 1905
Q: "Who, known primarily for dreamy, other-worldly scenes, painted his first album cover in 1968 for ""Gun"", in 1971 began a partnership with the progressive rock band ""Yes"" and created covers for ""Budgie"", ""Uriah Heep"" & ""Gentle Giant""?" A: Roger Dean
Q: What is a symbol of food and abundance dating back to the 5th century BC, which is classically depicted as a goat's horn filled with fruits and flowers? A: Cornucopia
Q: What links French dramatist Pierre Corneille (1606-1684) and actor Charlton Heston (1923-2008)? A: El Cid
Q: In 2009 three women - an Australian, a Norwegian and a Venezuelan - created a record for the Venezuelan at Angel Falls, the highest waterfall in the world, doing what? A: BASE jumping
Q: Who was found guilty by the High Court of Admiralty, London, on five counts of piracy and for the murder of William Moore, was hanged on May 23, 1701, at 'Execution Dock', Wapping, London? A: William Kidd
Q: What type of creature can be called earth, round, flat, butt, arrow, jaw, horsehair, ribbon, velvet, horseshoe, peanut and tape? A: Worm
Q: "Who wrote ""The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire"" between 1772 and 1787 (published from 1776 to 1789) in 6 volumes?" A: Edward Gibbon
Q: Africa is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea, the Indian Ocean, the Southern Ocean and which other major body of water? A: The Red Sea
Q: Reginald Rose wrote a play adapted from his 1957 teleplay, and later film, script of the same name. The film became famous with Henry Fonda in the lead role as foreman of a jury. What was the play? A: 12 Angry Men
Q: When was the first train run on the route known as the Orient Express? A: 1883
Q: "Who plays Gabrielle Solis in the US TV series ""Desperate Housewives""?" A: Eva Longoria Parker
Q: What type of land does Bogota, Columbia, have most of? A: Mountains
Q: What is the next city in the series Beijing, London, Rio de Janeiro ...? A: Tokyo
Q: Lcio Costa was the principal urban planner, Oscar Niemeyer was the principal architect, and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer for which purpose-built capital city? A: Brasilia, Brazil
Q: On the Christian calendar, what is the name for the Sunday before Easter? A: Palm Sunday
Q: "It was called by one government the ""Anti-Fascist Protection Rampart"" and by a neighbouring government the ""Wall of Shame"", what was it and when was construction started?" A: The Berlin Wall, 1961
Q: In 2010, Iyad Allawi and Nuri Al-Maliki contested an election in which country? A: Iraq
Q: The northernmost USA state on the eastern seaboard lies partly north of its neighbouring Canadian territory. Which is the state? A: Maine
Q: "The American TV miniseries ""Shogun"", based on the book by James Clavell, was set in which country?" A: Japan
Q: The Trans-Siberian Railway is the third longest continuous rail service and spans how many time zones? A: 7
Q: In their raiding, exploring, trading and settling in the 9th century Scandinavian Vikings took which city, and grew it into the capital of what became known as the Land of the Rus? A: Kiev
Q: "Malcolm McLaren & Vivienne Westwood's clothing shop in Chelsea, London was called ""Let It Rock"" when it opened. The name was changed to ""Too Fast to Live Too Young to Die"" 1972, and was next called what?" A: Sex
Q: "Who wrote ""A thing of beauty is a joy forever""?" A: John Keats
Q: "Who wrote the 1955 novel ""The Quiet American""?" A: Graham Greene
Q: The Tuareg are the principal inhabitants of which area? A: Sahara Desert
Q: If you went directly south from France, which sea would you meet first? A: Mediterannean
Q: "Who is the ringmaster in the UK TV series ""QI""?" A: Stephen Fry
Q: Who was the US president when women got the vote in the USA due to the ratification of The Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: In 1961, the office of the Postmaster General of Australia introduced which emergency telephone number in major population centres and, near the end of the 1980s, extended the coverage nationwide? A: 000
Q: "Who created the comic strip ""Doonesbury""?" A: Garry Trudeau
Q: The English parliament met for the first time under that name in which century? A: 13th
Q: Daniel Craig played Ted Hughes in what 2003 film? A: Sylvia
Q: What is an ornamental string of feathers? A: Boa
Q: According to Greek legend, which of the 9 muses was the muse of Comedy? A: Thalia
Q: Where did the borzoi dog breed originate? A: Russia
Q: Who was the father of Queen Elizabeth II? A: George VI
Q: What branch of the British military wear red caps? A: Military police
Q: "John Lennon and Yoko Ono staged their famous ""bed ins"" for peace In which two cities in 1969?" A: Amsterdam and Montreal
Q: Antonia Robinson and Anna Valentine, London designers who work under the name Robinson Valentine, designed a cream-coloured dress and coat worn by whom at her wedding to Prince Charles on 9 April 2005? A: Camilla Parker Bowles
Q: Where is the Great Karoo found? A: South Africa
Q: Obsidian, caused naturally when lava cools very quickly, is what type of substance? A: Glass
Q: She has figured in plays by John Lyly, Sir W.S. Gilbert, Lawrence Aronovitch, and George Bernard Shaw as well as in novels, opera, painting, and a video game as well as in place and ship names. Who is she? A: Galatea
Q: Which Greek city was also known as Lacedaemon? A: Sparta
Q: "Who is the main character in ""Blondie"", a comic strip which appeared around 1933, who was originally heir to a fortune but was disowned when he married a flapper, Blondie Boopadoop?" A: Dagwood Bumstead
Q: "What is ""La Sorbonne"" in Paris?" A: University
Q: The Colorado beetle destroys what kind of crop? A: Potato
Q: Which is the strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania? A: Bass Strait
Q: The Kalahari Desert in Africa stretches across South Africa, Botswana and which other country? A: Namibia
Q: At the 1925 Wimbledon Championships, the finals of the Men's Singles were contested by Ren Lacoste who defeated Jean Borotra and the finals of the Women's Singles by Suzanne Lenglen who defeated Joan Fry Lakeman. Three of these players were French: what nationality was the other? A: English
Q: An astrolabe was used for astrology, navigation and what else? A: Astronomy
Q: Which country, after Sultan Hussein Shah signed a treaty with the British East India Company on 6 February 1819, officially became a British colony on 2 August 1824 by a new treaty with the Sultan and the Temmenggong? A: Singapore
Q: Colombia's shores are in the Caribbean Sea and which other body of water? A: Pacific Ocean
Q: Which film which stars John Hurt, Richard Burton (in his last film role) and Suzanna Hamilton is based on a book by George Orwell? A: 1984
Q: One of the forms of music usually sung a capella is...? A: Madrigal
Q: "Kathleen Brennan produced albums for which musician, starting with his 1983 album ""Swordfishtrombones""?" A: Tom Waits
Q: Adriano De Souza, Joel Parkinson, Adam Robertson, Bobby Martinez, Kelly Slater, Damien Hobgood, Mick Fanning, Dane Reynolds, Bede Durbidge, Chris Davidson & Taj Burrow are international competitors in what sport? A: Surfing
Q: "The word ""Scandinavian"" refers to which part of the world?" A: Northern Europe
Q: What is the principal ore of aluminium? A: Bauxite
Q: After a military coup on 21 March 2009, in which country did Andry Rajoelina became the youngest of the current heads of state in the world and the youngest head of state in Africa? A: Madagascar
Q: In Greek mythology Argus Panoptes, guardian of the heifer-nymph Io and son of Arestor, was a primordial giant described as having multiple, often one hundred, what? A: Eyes
Q: What name is given to ducks which feed mainly at the surface rather than by diving? A: Dabbling ducks
Q: The Fast5 World Netball Series, first contested in October 2009 under modified rules, was scheduled to be held in Manchester, England, initially but was played where in 2012? A: Auckland, New Zealand
Q: "Who wrote the historical romances ""The White Company"" and ""Brigadier Gerard""?" A: Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: Austro-Hungarian Theodore Herzl was the first leader of what international movement? A: Zionism
Q: What is the name for the movement of water across a partially permeable membrane from an area of high water potential (low solute concentration) to an area of low water potential (high solute concentration)? A: Osmosis
Q: "What play is seldom referred to in theatre by its own name but called instead ""the Scottish play""?" A: Macbeth
Q: "Which British actor debuted on the West End stage in 1956 in ""Look Back in Anger"", a role he had originated at the Royal Court which made him a star, and made his film debut in 1960 in ""The Entertainer"" opposite Laurence Olivier?" A: Alan Bates
Q: What sea between Israel and Jordan is 1,385 feet (422 metres) below sea level? A: Dead Sea
Q: Which African kingdom, founded by Osei Tutu in the 1670s, was increased until 1701, fought 4 wars against Britain between 1823 and 1896 until, in 1900, it was incorporated into the Gold Coast colony as a protectorate? A: Ashanti
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain during the Edward VIII abdication crisis? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: Forty hours before he committed suicide in 1945 Adolf Hitler married whom? A: Eva Braun
Q: What note does an orchestra tune to? A: A above middle C
Q: "What is used in the technique for opening a champagne bottle called ""sabrage""?" A: Sword
Q: "What paradise was created by James Hilton in his book ""Lost Horizon""?" A: Shangri-La
Q: Film actor Russell Crowe was born in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: What is the main ingredient of a plain omelette? A: Eggs
Q: Who is the main character in a film whose plotline begins in 1845 in Canada, when young James Howlett kills a groundskeeper named Thomas Logan, who was John Howlett's murderer? A: Wolverine
Q: When were Northern Nigeria and Southern Nigeria formally amalgamated? A: 1914
Q: What is the name for the outer covering of the shell of a coconut which is made into yarn used to make matting and brushes? A: Coir
Q: What is the street term for the drug Gamma-Hydroxibutyric acid (GHB)? A: Fantasy
Q: Who is the patron saint of Scotland? A: St Andrew
Q: "During the late 1960s and early 1970s, ""Easy Rider"", ""Bonnie and Clyde"" and ""The Graduate"" helped to begin what film-making phase?" A: New Hollywood
Q: The centre of a well-known UK TV series was a doctor, but was not a medical series. What was the name of the doctor? A: Who
Q: A mastodon was an early form of what animal? A: Elephant
Q: Which US president occupied 2 executive mansions in New York City [at 3 Cherry Street (April 1789 February 1790) & 3941 Broadway (February August 1790)], and 1 in Philadelphia at 190 High Street (November 1790 to March 1797)? A: George Washington
Q: Which 1987 film stars Jack Nicholson, Cher, Susan Sarandon and Michelle Pfeiffer? A: The Witches of Eastwick
Q: "While performing on TV on ""Saturday Night Live"" in 1992, singer Sinead O'Connor tore up a picture of whom?" A: The Pope
Q: What is the name of the wife of Andy Capp, a British comic strip character created by Reg Smythe, first published in August 1957? A: Flo
Q: What is one description of a lunar eclipse? A: Red moon
Q: The sea which lies immediately north of Norway and Russia is known by what name? A: Barents Sea
Q: US author Sara Paretsky created which fictional detective? A: V I Warshawski
Q: Max is a little boy who appears in which children's story by Maurice Sendak? A: Where the Wild Things Are
Q: The Atacama area on the Pacific coast of South America is best characterised as what? A: Desert
Q: Who makes casks and barrels? A: Cooper
Q: By what name were followers of the Communist Party of Kampuchea better known? A: Khmer Rouge
Q: "A television film released by Disney Channel Original Movie in 2006 was ""High School ..."" what?" A: Musical
Q: What was the name of ten Kings of Denmark between 1448 and 1947? A: Christian
Q: "Who played the title role in Woody Allen's film ""Annie Hall""?" A: Diane Keaton
Q: In the movie 'Miracle on 34th Street', Kris Kringle is hired to play Santa Claus in what large department store? A: Macy's
Q: What is the Greek name for the Roman god known as Cupid? A: Eros
Q: What's the next city in this series: Salt Lake City, Turin, Vancouver, ...? A: Sochi
Q: What is a female fox called? A: Vixen
Q: Which 13th century Mogol Emperor of China set up his capital in Peking? A: Kublai Khan
Q: What was the title of a 2005 film biography of Johnny Cash, starring Joaquin Phoenix? A: Walk the Line
Q: Which British fashion designer spent his working life from 1934 to 1979 at 26 Bruton Street, Mayfair, London, and designed for the Royal family, notably the wedding dress of Princess Elizabeth in 1947 for her marriage to Prince Philip, the 1953 Coronation Dress of Queen Elizabeth II and those of all the major royal ladies, including the wedding dress of HRH Princess Margaret in 1960? A: Norman Hartnell
Q: Edward I of England defeated whose forces at Falkirk on 22 July 1298? A: William Wallace
Q: Vehicles that can operate on both land and water are called what? A: Amphibious
Q: "What does the term ""baroque"" mean?" A: """Misshapen pearl"""
Q: "In the 1967 film ""Belle de Jour"", based on a 1928 novel by Joseph Kessel and directed by Luis Buuel, what part-time work is carried out by the main character played by Catherine Deneuve?" A: Prostitute
Q: The islands of Madagascar, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Zanzibar are in which ocean? A: Indian
Q: How old was New Zealand golfer Lydia Ko when she turned professional in 2013? A: 16
Q: "In 2004, who released his long awaited album, ""Smile""?" A: Brian Wilson
Q: Olive oil is made from what part of the olive tree? A: Fruit
Q: What is the name of the strait which links the Gulf of Aden with the Red Sea? A: Bab-el-Mandeb
Q: According to the Hebrew bible who was the oldest man ever to live? A: Methuselah
Q: St George's Channel separates mainland Britain from where? A: Ireland
Q: Who was the magistrate in Athens who codified its laws around 600 BC? A: Draco
Q: The Colorado Beetle destroys which crop? A: Potatoes
Q: "Who has been a game show host on US television for ""The Neighbors"" (1975), ""Who Wants to Be a Millionaire"" (from 1999), ""Who Wants to Be a Super Millionaire"" (from 2004), ""America's Got Talent"" (2006) and ""Million Dollar Password"" (2008 to 2009)?" A: Regis Philbin
Q: What is the common name for members of the plant genus Mandragora belonging to the nightshade family? A: Mandrake
Q: In what year did Sachin Tendulkar formally retire from playing cricket? A: 2013
Q: Marlborough and Hawke Bay are wine producing regions of what area? A: New Zealand
Q: The seven hills which lay within ancient Rome are the Capitoline, Caelian, Aventine, Palatine, Quirinal, Esquiline and which other hill? A: Viminal
Q: "The title of a 1999 film was ""Being John ... "" who?" A: Malkovich
Q: What are the official languages of the Kingdom of Morocco? A: Arabic and Berber
Q: In what direction does a luge rider travel? A: Feet first
Q: "Who was the first British monarch to be named ""Empress of India""?" A: Victoria
Q: What part of Pinocchio's body extended when he told a lie? A: Nose
Q: The didgeridoo is an instrument from which country? A: Australia
Q: Anti-retroviral drugs are used to treat what disease? A: HIV
Q: Latvia has a maritime border to the west with what country? A: Sweden
Q: Which country's dissolution in 1993 was known as the Velvet Divorce? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: In which country, on June 1, 2001, was there a massacre in the royal palace when King Birendra, Queen Aiswarya, Crown Prince Dipendra and 7 other members of the royal family were killed? A: Nepal
Q: The island Commonwealth of Dominica sits in which sea or ocean? A: Caribbean
Q: A way of looking at mathematical relationships and operations using abstract symbols instead of specific numbers is called what? A: Algebra
Q: "What language does the word ""chutney"" come from?" A: Hindi
Q: The endocrine glands secrete their products directly into what rather than through a duct? A: Blood stream
Q: The death of which dictator, closely associated with revolution and with World War II, happened in 1953 while he was in office as leader of his country? A: Josef Stalin
Q: What field is Albert Einstein best known for working in? A: Physics
Q: The Kuril island archipelago lies between the Pacific Ocean and which other sea? A: The Sea of Okhotsk
Q: The marshmallow was first created as a medicinal substance when extracts from what part of the marsh mallow plant were used as a remedy for sore throats? A: Root
Q: "Which playwright wrote the musical ""Mamma Mia""?" A: Catherine Johnson
Q: The River Irwell runs through which English city? A: Manchester
Q: """The Leader of the Pack"" was a #1 hit record world-wide between 1972 and 1976 for which group?" A: The Shangri-Las
Q: New Zealand celebrates Matariki, Maori New Year in late May or early June, marking the rising in the southern hemisphere of the seven stars of what? A: Pleiades
Q: The Joad family appear in which novel and 1940 film directed by John Ford? A: The Grapes of Wrath
Q: In what region do the Sahel droughts occur? A: West and central Africa
Q: When the Badminton World Federation was first formed in 1934 (initially as the International Badminton Federation) where was it located? A: Cheltenham, UK
Q: Africa is considered to have been part of which early landmass? A: Gondwana
Q: According to the Masters of Foxhounds Association of America, the first fox hounds were imported into America in 1650; what nationality was the man who imported them? A: British
Q: What stitch, also called a whip stitch (when done by machine) or a crochet stitch (when done by hand), is used to reinforce the edge of thick materials? A: Blanket stitch
Q: By what name was US president Andrew Jackson affectionately known? A: Old Hickory
Q: What Roman road ran from London to Weymouth, via Silchester, Old Sarum and Dorchester? A: The Portway
Q: What usually causes the bone disease called rickets? A: A deficiency of vitamin D
Q: Sebastian Pinera was the president of where? A: Chile
Q: What did the Romans call Scotland? A: Caledonia
Q: Barbara is the name of the First Lady of which US president? A: George H Bush
Q: Wargaming in one form or another has gone through surges of use and popularity but one form is both ancient and still greatly popular; which is it? A: Chess
Q: Which political figure's assassination was among the events which precipitated World War I? A: Archduke Franz Ferdinand
Q: What is the name of Thomas Gray's most famous poem? A: Elegy Written In A Country Churchyard
Q: Which book of the Christian Bible provides the details of the Apocalypse? A: Revelation
Q: A hit song of 1960 by Brian Hyland concerned an itsy bitsy teenie weenie polka dot bikini of what colour? A: Yellow
Q: "Who plays Dr. Addison Montgomery in the US TV series ""Private Practice""?" A: Kate Walsh
Q: When did the USSR and Japan sign a Joint Declaration to end the state of war that existed during World War II and provided for the restoration of normal diplomatic relations? A: 1956
Q: "In 1898, 14 years before the Titanic sank, novelist Morgan Robertson published ""Futility"", a short novel about an enormous British passenger liner, which, thought to be unsinkable, carries insufficient lifeboats and on a voyage in April, hits an iceberg and sinks in the North Atlantic with the loss of almost everyone on board. What was the name of the ship in this story?" A: The Titan
Q: The Caspian Sea is bordered by how many countries? A: 5
Q: What was the original prize for winning golf's Open Championship (the British Open)? A: Belt
Q: Until the Simpsons came along, what was the most successful TV cartoon series? A: The Flintstones
Q: What is the name of the calms and light baffling winds in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans? A: Doldrums
Q: What is a method for categorizing the impact hazard associated with near-Earth objects (NEOs) such as asteroids and comets? A: The Torino Scale
Q: Who was an English record producer for The Animals, Herman's Hermits, Donovan, Lulu, Nancy Sinatra, The Yardbirds, Suzi Quatro, Kim Wilde and the Jeff Beck Group? A: Mickie Most
Q: In April 2014 a record BASE jump from top of the world's tallest building, Burj Khalifa in Dubai, involved how many people jumping? A: 3
Q: The sign language used in some stock exchanges to buy and sell is called what? A: Arb
Q: In 2003, Britain's first what was opened just north of Birmingham? A: Toll motorway
Q: Az, buky, vd and glagoli and dobro are the first 5 letters of which alphabet? A: Glagolitic
Q: The US War of Independence was in which century? A: 18th
Q: "What was the setting for ""The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas"", a 2008 film directed by Mark Herman starring Asa Butterfield, Jack Scanlon, David Thewlis, and Vera Farmiga, based on the book by John Boyne?" A: Concentration camp
Q: Andalusia, Aragon, Asturias, Cantabria, Catalonia and Navarre are all autonomous communities of which country? A: Spain
Q: Who led English barons in an attempt to influence Henry III, called a parliament in 1265 and was defeated at the Battle of Evesham? A: Simon de Montfort
Q: Suriname's three neighbouring countries are Guyana, French Guiana and which other? A: Brazil
Q: Which pantomime is about a boy who discovers a magic lamp? A: Aladdin
Q: Why was the Olympic flag raised upside down at the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia? A: Mistake
Q: What was the author Tolstoy's first name? A: Leo
Q: "Where is Dan Brown's book ""Angels and Demons"" mainly set?" A: The Vatican
Q: Who led the Dutch colony of New Netherlands in America until surrendering it to the British in 1664? A: Peter Stuyvesant
Q: Ding Junhui is a rising star in which sport? A: Snooker
Q: Originally a UK TV series using string puppets it first aired in 1952 with an idiosyncratic version of English called Oddle Poddle; what was the series? A: Flower Pot Men
Q: What is apiphobia the fear of? A: Bees
Q: Memphis, Tennessee, lies in the river valley of which river? A: Mississippi
Q: "Who entitled his autobiography ""Memoirs of a Professional Cad""?" A: George Sanders
Q: Who is the next in this series: Rajiv Gandhi, Vishwanath Pratap Singh, Chandra Shekhar Singh, P. V. Narasimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee ... ? A: H. D. Deve Gowda
Q: How many films have been made in the Harry Potter series? A: 8
Q: Who was declared president by both houses of the US Congress because there was no precedent or clear constitutional rule for a vice president to assume the office of president upon the death of his predecessor? A: John Tyler
Q: What name was given to a series of treaties between Scotland and France, aimed specifically against England, that began in 1295 and lasted until 1560? A: The Auld Alliance
Q: What mythical creature is a symbol of Wales? A: Dragon
Q: What is the word for an asexual form of reproduction found in females where growth and development of embryos occurs without fertilisation by a male? A: Parthenogenesis
Q: Which prophetess, the daughter of Priam, King of Troy, was killed following the fall of Troy by Agamemnon's wife, Clytemnestra? A: Cassandra
Q: What is the guillotine most popularly associated with? A: French Revolution
Q: "What is ""amblyopia"" commonly known as?" A: Lazy eye
Q: What is another name for the jawbone? A: Mandible
Q: Who, in 1901, won the Triple Crown in Major League baseball? A: Nap Lajoie
Q: What part of Ecuador is completely surrounded by ocean? A: Galapagos Islands
Q: What is often thought of as the medieval forerunner of chemistry, especially seeking to turn base metals into gold or silver? A: Alchemy
Q: "Which US vice presidential candidate made ""The Checkers speech"", an address on TV and radio on 23 September 1952, which was an early example of a politician using television to appeal directly to the electorate?" A: Richard Nixon
Q: Which guitarist collaborated with David Bowie on his music projects from 1988 to 1999? A: Reeves Gabrels
Q: Born in Australia in 1898, Walter Lindrum was one of the greatest practitoners of what sport? A: Billiards
Q: The film 1953 Calamity Jane produced which hit for Doris Day that reached #1 on the Billboard charts in 1954? A: Secret Love
Q: Whom do Sikhs venerate as the founder of their religion? A: Guru Nanak
Q: Who was the British Leader of the Opposition during the Abdication Crisis? A: Clement Attlee
Q: "Jim Carrey played which character in the 2004 film ""Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind""?" A: Joel Barish
Q: "Wordsworth was inspired to write ""Earth has not anything to show more fair"" by the view from which London bridge?" A: Westminster
Q: Among NATO members, which is the only one with no standing army? A: Iceland
Q: In the 14th century, what name was given to Edward, eldest son of Edward III and father of Richard II? A: Black Prince
Q: In which country were constitutional reforms initiated in 1954, resulting in a new constitution when Britain granted self-government in 1964? A: British Honduras
Q: In American football how far is the longest ever successful field kick in yards? A: 64
Q: Thiamine, niacine and riboflavin belong to which vitamin group? A: B
Q: The BBC began sending experimental TV images to the British nation in what year? A: 1929
Q: What word is used to describe an illegal hunt of game or fish? A: Poach
Q: In the far past it has been a very large lake but is currently a brackish lagoon, the neck leading to the sea being bridged by the General Rafael Urdaneta Bridge and carrying the second-largest city in its country. What is it called? A: Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela
Q: What is taphophobia the fear of? A: Graves
Q: Who was the leader of the Peasant's Revolt in England in 1381? A: Wat Tyler
Q: Besides being a composer, philosopher, poet, artist and printmaker, John Cage was a leading authority on what? A: Mushrooms
Q: In 1921 Sir Arnold Lunn organised the first British national ski championship which included, as well as jumping and cross-country, a speed version of what other style? A: Slalom
Q: What is one of the main ingredients of marzipan, besides egg whites and sugar? A: Ground almonds
Q: In which sea is the country of Grenada? A: Caribbean
Q: "At 9.00 a.m. on 27 August 1896, after Khalid bin Bargash ignored a British ultimatum to leave the Beit al Hukum Palace, Royal Navy ships opened fire. Khalid's troops returned fire. A cease fire was declared at 9.45 a.m., giving the bombardment the title of ""The Shortest War in History"". Where was this?" A: Zanzibar
Q: Who principally studied transplant rejection and immunosuppression after World War II, which led him to perform the first kidney transplant in the UK on 30 October 1960? A: Michael Woodruff
Q: On a state visit to Britain in 2003, US President Bush was welcomed by a salute of how many guns? A: 41
Q: Who retained his title as the World Chess Champion after a challenge from Veselin Topalov in 2010? A: Viswanathan Anand
Q: The father of which ex prime minister of the UK was a trapeze artist and a garden gnome salesman? A: John Major
Q: Who was the ruler of the Holy Roman Empire from 882 to 887 AD? A: Charles the Fat
Q: What is the nickname of Apsley House, the former London residence of the Dukes of Wellington, that stands alone at Hyde Park Corner on the south-east corner of Hyde Park? A: Number One, London
Q: What series of comic strips first appeared in French in a children's supplement to the Belgian newspaper Le Vingtime Sicle on 10 January 1929? A: The Adventures of Tintin
Q: "Who is a cartoonist, best known for his appearances in ""The New Yorker"" since 3 January 1977, which published 819 of his cartoons, many of which involved animals?" A: Leo Cullum
Q: Gynophobia is an abnormal fear of what? A: Women
Q: A study of bacterial DNA through the 1960s and 1970s isolated and identified a new branch of the tree of life many of whose members live in places extremely hostile to other forms of life. What is it called? A: Archaea
Q: "Who coined the expresssion ""portmanteau words"" for words made from combinations of other words, such as ""brunch""?" A: Lewis Carroll
Q: What was the name of Paddington Bear's aunt, who sent him from Peru to London? A: Lucy
Q: Which South American country stretches over 3,000 miles from north to south and less than 300 miles from east to west? A: Chile
Q: Edward the Confessor was crowned King of England in which century? A: 11th
Q: "Joe Calzaghe, known as ""The Pride of Wales"", was a boxing world champion in which category?" A: Super middleweight
Q: What type of show is the US/Canada TV series Stargate SG-1? A: Scifi
Q: What is the small plain plastic or metal sheath on each end of a shoelace, cord or drawstring to stop the fibres from unraveling, and to make it easier to hold and feed through the guides? A: Aglet
Q: "The ostrich, emu, rhea, kiwi and the extinct ""elephant bird"" of Madagascar and moa are all types of what diverse group of large, flightless birds?" A: Ratite
Q: What does the River Tyne empty into? A: North Sea
Q: The singer Kimbra who featured on the Record of the Year for 2012 was born and grew up where? A: New Zealand
Q: In the 1950s, what was Jersey Joe Walcott known for? A: Boxing
Q: In a 2009 film James McAvoy plays the role of private secretary to whom, played by Christopher Plummer? A: Leo Tolstoy
Q: What name is given to the individual leaves of grass, gladioli and irises? A: Blades
Q: What is most usually cited as the baroque pitch for the note A? A: A-415
Q: What was the name of Amy Johnson's plane in which she flew solo from Britain to Australia in 1930? A: Jason
Q: Which country does not currently have a sultan as its political and/or religious head of state? A: Morocco
Q: Which letter is unique to the Icelandic alphabet? A: (thorn)
Q: "Who, styling himself ""Witch-Finder General"" conducted witch-hunts mainly in the counties of Suffolk, Essex, Norfolk and occasionally in other eastern counties of England during the English Civil War?" A: Matthew Hopkins
Q: A popular myth which has been debunked by sports historians is that Abner Doubleday, a Union officer in the American Civil War, invented which sport? A: Baseball
Q: Where, apart from Australia, are monotremes found? A: New Guinea
Q: """Monticello"" was the mansion owned by which US president?" A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: Founded in 914 AD by the Vikings who built on the banks of the River Suir, and with Reginald's Tower as its most recognisable landmark, what is the oldest city in the Republic of Ireland? A: Waterford
Q: Which is recognised as the most massive bacterium so far discovered, reaching up to .75mm in length and large enough to be visible to the naked eye? A: Thiomargarita namibiensis
Q: Sine the mid 1990s the USA has banned what in hunting water fowl? A: The use of lead shot
Q: What was Harry Potter's pet, Hedwig? A: Owl
Q: Bushido, developed between the 9th and 20th centuries relates to which culture? A: Japanese
Q: What is the main unit of currency in Turkey? A: Lira
Q: "What was the name of Scrooge's clerk in Charles Dickens' ""A Christmas Carol""?" A: Bob Cratchit
Q: "Stephen Sondheim's musical ""Sunday in the Park With George"" was inspired by a painting by whom?" A: Seurat
Q: "After appearing in ""Ferris Bueller's Day Off"", Jennifer Grey starred opposite Patrick Swayze as Frances ""Baby"" Houseman in what 1987 film?" A: Dirty Dancing
Q: Who was the first person to refuse an Academy Award for Best Actor? A: George C. Scott
Q: What replaced the Cyclops computer system, that helps to determine whether a serve is in or out, at the US Open in 2006 and the Wimbledon Championships in 2007? A: Hawk-Eye
Q: A traditional music ensemble from Indonesia, featuring instruments such as xylophones, gongs, bells, bamboo flutes, and strings is known as what? A: Gamelan
Q: "What was named ""Desire"" in the 1947 play by Tennessee Williams?" A: A streetcar
Q: What performer, a spokeswoman for Autism Speaks and the American Heart Association, named her children Denham and Diesel? A: Toni Braxton
Q: The first uses of what on a large scale in civil engineering were the construction of the Canal du Midi in France (1681), the Erie canal in New York (1825), the Box Tunnel on the railway line between London and Bristol, England (1841), and the Mont Cenis Tunnel between France and Italy (1870)? A: Gunpowder
Q: Life on Mars, the popular UK TV series from BBC Wales 2006-7, with UK sequel and spin-offs in the USA, Spain and Russia, was earlier declined by the BBC for what reason? A: """It's going to be silly"""
Q: How many poles are there related to the planet Earth? A: 10
Q: "What type of beer takes its name from the German word for ""storage""?" A: Lager
Q: Frdric Chopin is best known for his compositions for which instrument? A: Piano
Q: "Who has the line ""Is this a dagger which I see before me"" in a Shakespearean play?" A: Macbeth
Q: Behourd, quintain, mle, and hastilude are terms relating to what? A: Martial games
Q: When the Chinese Nationalist Party lost the civil war to the Communist Party in 1949, it relocated to which island and established Taipei as the Republic Of China's provisional capital? A: Taiwan
Q: When SARS was discovered in 2003 it was only the third human coronavirus known, but by the end of 2012 a further three have been identified the last now known as MERS; what coronavirus is MERS most closely related to? A: Bat
Q: A typical harvest from Spain and Greece is thought of as what? A: Olives
Q: Who, when he took on the position, was the second-youngest US president to take office, the first US president born in the 20th century and, at age 43, the youngest elected to the office? A: John F Kennedy
Q: "What do the initials in the UK TV show ""QI"" represent?" A: Quite Interesting
Q: "Where is the boat ""The Maid of the Mist"", originally designed to ply between USA and Canada and now a tourist facility for a world attraction?" A: Niagara Falls
Q: "Which French dramatist, one of the ""Big Three"" of 17th century France and one of the most important literary figures in the Western tradition wrote the comedy ""Les Plaideurs"" and the tragedies ""Alexandre le Grand"", ""Andromaque"", ""Athalie"", ""Bajazet"", ""Brnice"", ""Britannicus"", ""Esther"", ""Iphignie"", ""La Thbade"", ""Mithridate"" and ""Phdre""?" A: Jean Racine
Q: How many years is Methuselah recorded as having lived? A: 969
Q: Ramn Emeterio Betances, Segundo Ruiz Belvis and Francisco Ramrez Medina were revolutionaries who attempted to free Puerto Rico from rule by which country? A: Spain
Q: Which British prime minister resigned as a result of the Suez Crisis? A: Anthony Eden
Q: In 1840 Queen Victoria in the United Kingdom married her cousin. What was his name? A: Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Q: What is the full name of the organism found in abundance in the mammalian gut, and used as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA, in early commercial work the bacterium of choice for cloning and mass-producing new materials? A: Escherichia coli
Q: What island off the coast of Iceland was formed in a volcanic eruption which began 130 m (426 ft) below sea level, reached the surface on 14 November 1963 and continued to 5 June 1967, when it measured 2.7 sq km (1 sq mile)? A: Surtsey
Q: "When the UK version of the biographical documentary ""This Is Your Life"" TV series aired who was the first presenter?" A: Eamonn Andrews
Q: In December 2005, Amelle Berrabah became a member of which group? A: Sugababes
Q: What is the modern process used to make steel? A: Linz-Donawitz
Q: "A British comedy, first staged in London's West End in 1971 that ran for nearly a decade to packed audiences though unanimously panned by critics, was ""No Sex, Please, We're "" what?" A: British
Q: What country, including land from subtropical plains to sub-alpine peaks of over 7,000m (23,000 ft), and currently a monarchy, was rated in 2006 as the eighth happiest country in the world? A: Bhutan
Q: Who was Formula One Champion driver for 2013? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker and Peter Mayhew are reprising some of the most famous film roles, filming 2014-5, but although they will be seen their faces will never appear. They are, respectively, C-3PO, R2-D2 and which other character? A: Chewbacca
Q: The Book of Mormon, central book of the Mormon faith developed in the 1820s, was published in Palmyra, New York, on what date? A: March 26 1830
Q: "Who is one of the stars of the film ""Frost/Nixon"" (2008)?" A: Michael Sheen
Q: What in the human body shows the effect of melanin? A: Skin
Q: The Treaty of Brussels, the precursor to NATO and a basis for WEU, was signed on 17 March 1948 by Belgium, France, the UK, the Netherlands and which other nation? A: Luxembourg
Q: In Star Wars, what is the name of Han Solo's companion? A: Chewbacca
Q: In Western films, what is a bar regularly called? A: Saloon
Q: In which country did the USA provide information to a 1963 coup, against General Abd al-Karim Qasim the then Prime Minister of the country? A: Iraq
Q: In which continent is the country of Gabon found? A: Africa
Q: In what constellation is the multiple star Polaris found? A: Ursa Minor
Q: "What sort of pie is a critical plot element in Beatrix Potter's ""The Tale of the Pie and the Patty-Pan""?" A: Veal and ham
Q: The three mascots for the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics were a polar bear, a snow leopard and what other animal? A: Snow hare
Q: Which stringed instrument is named for its ability to convey a range of volume? A: Piano
Q: Charlotte was the queen of which British king? A: George III
Q: Who was instrumental in 1996 in bringing world attention to Dunblane Primary School? A: Thomas Hamilton
Q: What club, the first of many bars with entertainment by big name drawcards, opened at 116 E. Walton in downtown Chicago, Illinois, USA on 29 February 1960? A: Playboy
Q: What shape is the ground which has been home to the Surrey County Cricket Club since 1845? A: Oval
Q: What was the first finished product to roll off Henry Ford's moving assembly line established in 1913? A: Car
Q: "Who wrote ""The Thirty Nine Steps""?" A: John Buchan
Q: The Jordan, Bear and Weber Rivers empty into which major lake in central USA? A: Great Salt Lake
Q: What is a form of asexual reproduction found in females, where growth and development of embryos occurs without fertilisation by a male? A: Parthenogenesis
Q: Lieutenant General Aman Andom, Crown Prince Asfaw Wossen, Brigadier General Tafari Benti, Major Mengistu Haile Mariam and Major Atnafu Abate were involved in the politics of which country between 1974 and 1987? A: Ethiopia
Q: Shane Lynch, Mikey Graham and Keith Duffy were members of which group? A: Boyzone
Q: Which poem by Thomas Gray, completed in 1750 and inspired by Gray's thoughts following the death of the poet Richard West in 1742, was so popular in London literary circles that Gray was forced to publish the work on 15 February 1751 to pre-empt a magazine publisher from printing an unlicensed copy? A: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard
Q: What saline basin in Central Asia, once the world's fourth largest lake with an area of 68,000 square kilometres (26,000 sq miles), has been steadily shrinking since the 1960s when the rivers feeding it were diverted by irrigation projects? A: The Aral Sea
Q: "Who wrote ""The Seven Pillars of Wisdom""?" A: Lawrence of Arabia
Q: The name of the science, mathematics, derives from an ancient Greek word meaning what? A: That which is learnt
Q: Bondi Beach is a suburb of which city? A: Sydney, Australia
Q: Iron Maiden, Saxon, Def Leppard, Van Halen, Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath are associated with what style of music? A: Heavy metal
Q: If you are holding a musical instrument with F-holes what are you likely to be holding? A: A bowed string instrument
Q: The Gobi Desert lies in which area? A: Asia
Q: "A quote from Samuel Johnson is that ""when a man is tired of London he is tired of ..."" what?" A: Life
Q: Which sea surrounds the island of Martinique? A: Caribbean
Q: What is the first name of Capt. W E Johns's fictional flying hero, Biggles? A: James
Q: "If a Greek person calls ""Eureka"" what are they saying?" A: I have found it
Q: In what continent was freestyle swimming first developed? A: Australia
Q: Richard, Duke of York, the father of the English kings Edward IV and Richard II, was killed at the Battle of Wakefield in which ongoing campaign? A: Wars of the Roses
Q: In 1508-9 the British-born Venetian explorer Sebastian Cabot led one of the first European expeditions to the north of North America to find what? A: North-West Passage
Q: The miners affected by the 2012 strike and massacre in Marikana, South Africa, were workers from what type of mine? A: Platinum
Q: Clint Eastwood played the character of Rowdy Yates in which US TV series of the 1960s? A: Rawhide
Q: "Which French novelist, critic and essayist is best known for his monumental "" la recherche du temps perdu"" (""In Search of Lost Time""; or ""Remembrance of Things Past"" that was published in seven parts between 1913 and 1927?" A: Marcel Proust
Q: What was the original name of the ship, the Golden Hind, used by Francis Drake to circumnavigate the globe? A: Pelican
Q: Which country completely surrounds the Kingdom of Lesotho? A: Republic of South Africa
Q: Which infective disease caused by toxins is characterised by the violent and prolonged contraction of skeletal muscle fibres? A: Tetanus
Q: The organisation OPEC is concerned with production of what? A: Oil
Q: In 2014 where is artist Ai Weiwei based? A: China
Q: "Who sang with Barbra Streisand on ""No More Tears (Enough is Enough)""?" A: Donna Summer
Q: What dye used in cooking for crimson tints is made from the body of a female insect inhabiting Peru and Mexico? A: Cochineal
Q: One of the top songs for 2012 featured Gotye and which other artist? A: Kimbra
Q: "Who wrote the music for the ballets ""The Firebird"", ""Petrushka"", and ""The Rite of Spring""?" A: Stravinsky
Q: What is the name of a cross between broccoli and cauliflower? A: Broccoflower
Q: What is an important Jewish religious site located in the Old City of Jerusalem which dates from the end of the Second Temple period, being constructed around 19 BCE by Herod the Great? A: The Wailing Wall
Q: As at 2014 how many sports are contested in the Winter Paralympics? A: 5
Q: Olympe de Gouges, a French playwright and political activist , is today best known as an early feminist who demanded that French women be given the same rights as French men. How did she die? A: Guillotined
Q: Where in the UK is the Captain Cook Schoolroom Museum, a statue of James Cook as a boy by Nicholas Dimbleby, and a granite obelisk that marks the original site of the Cook family home? A: Great Ayton, North Yorkshire
Q: Who was the co-winner of the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physics, for key discoveries that led to the currently accepted theory on the later evolutionary stages of massive stars, and nephew of the 1930 Nobel Prize winner in Physics? A: Subramanyan Chandrasekhar
Q: What film concerns the life story of 18 year old Jamal Malik, a former street child from the Juhu slums in Mumbai? A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Who is popularly recognised as being the first person to run a mile in under 4 minutes? A: Roger Bannister
Q: Who were the majority of the people to feature in the death toll from the violent riots in Gujarat, India, in 2002? A: Muslim
Q: "The southern US dish ""chitlins"" is made from the intestines of what animal?" A: Pig
Q: The fossilised remains of a member of which extinct paleolithic race with heavy brow ridges and receding forehead were discovered in 1856? A: Neanderthal
Q: What musical instruments does a luthier work with? A: Stringed
Q: "What YouTuber made a song called ""Cookie Dance"" in 2013 under the name ChipChocolate?" A: Jesse Wellens
Q: How did competitors dress in early classical Olympic Games? A: Nude
Q: "Who wrote ""I Write the Songs"", a 1976 chart-topping song by Barry Manilow?" A: Bruce Johnston
Q: How many legs has an arachnid? A: 8
Q: Three immense carved images destroyed in Bamiyan, Afghanistan, by the Taleban in 2001 related to what faith? A: Buddhism
Q: To which part of the world are the Zulu people native? A: Southern Africa
Q: Where was the playwright August Strindberg born? A: Sweden
Q: What chemical materials does the process of photosynthesis depend on? A: Carbon dioxide and water
Q: According to Forbes as at June 2014, which is the second richest football club in the world? A: Barcelona
Q: What does the Water Festival mark in Burma/Myanmar? A: Burmese New Year
Q: REM is a term sometimes applied to what? A: A stage of sleep
Q: What name was given by Rudyard Kipling in one of his stories to a mongoose? A: Rikki Tikki Tavi
Q: "What English folk singer, songwriter, and musician whose primary musical instruments are the violin, the tenor guitar, the banjo and the viola, was brought up in the village of Buckland Monachorum, near Yelverton, Devon, produced 4 solo studio albums (""The Punch Bowl"", ""Kitty Jay"", ""Freedom Fields"" & ""Poor Mans Heaven"") between 2002 and 2008, and in February 2007 won Singer of the Year and Best Album awards at the BBC Radio 2 Folk Awards?" A: Seth Lakeman
Q: From which country is it currently thought that we get chicken tikka masala? A: UK
Q: in tuning a snare drum, the resonant head is generally tunes more loosely than what? A: The batter head
Q: The explorer Abel Tasman discovered Australia and New Zealand in what year? A: 1642
Q: Big Daddy Pollitt is a character in which Tennessee Williams play? A: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
Q: """Pomp and Circumstance"" is the title of 5 marches by which composer?" A: Edward Elgar
Q: Which resort shares both the summit of Mont Blanc and the title of highest commune in France with Saint-Gervais-les-Bains? A: Chamonix
Q: The absent-minded Professor Calculus was a colleague of which fictional character? A: Tin Tin
Q: In the fantasy novel series, The Throne of Fire, the characters must play what ancient Egyptian game? A: Senet
Q: "Who had a hit record in 1960 with the song ""Poetry In Motion""?" A: Johnny Tillotson
Q: Which English football team was both the last to win the FA Cup final at the old Wembley Stadium, and the first to win the FA Cup final at the New Wembley Stadium? A: Chelsea
Q: "What is a mainly instrumental piece of music by Elton John, the closing track of his 1978 album, ""A Single Man""?" A: Song for Guy
Q: Rome is on the banks of which river? A: Tiber
Q: What is a gregorian chant? A: Church music
Q: Paraplegic New Zealand sportswoman Neroli Fairhall won Paralympics and Commonwealth Games golds and held medals and titles in international and World Championship contests for what discipline? A: Archery
Q: What is the common name for the seeds of horse-chestnut trees? A: Conkers
Q: "Which people (besides the Rolling Stones) appeared on the cover of ""Their Satanic Majesties Request"", a 1967 album by The Rolling Stones?" A: The Beatles
Q: "Which 20th century English author wrote ""Ruined City"", ""A Town Like Alice"" and ""On The Beach""?" A: Nevil Shute
Q: Where was the first officially recorded baseball game held in the USA? A: Hoboken, New Jersey
Q: "The ""Libro de los Juegos"", completed in Castilian in 1278 AD, contained texts, illustrations and miniatures describing and discussing the games of chess, dice and which other game?" A: Backgammon
Q: From 1801 to 1812 Lord Elgin, under a controversial permit from the Ottoman Empire, removed many marble sculptures from a famous building in which country, and brought them to the UK? A: Greece
Q: Which are the only strictly marine herbivorous mammals? A: Dugongs
Q: Who is a British fashion designer, known for her work on pop art in fashion, opened a clothes shop called Bazaar on London's Kings Road with her husband, Alexander Plunkett-Greene, and a former solicitor, Archie Mcnair, in November 1955? A: Mary Quant
Q: Besides a back complaint, what else did John F Kennedy suffer from? A: Addison's disease
Q: What is a high-powered vacuum tube that generates microwaves using the interaction of a stream of electrons with a magnetic field? A: Magnetron
Q: Who is the only NBA player to score 100 points? A: Wilt Chamberlain
Q: "What was the background for the UK TV series ""Whitechapel""?" A: Jack the Ripper
Q: In 1992, aged 56, Woody Allen became romantically involved with 21 year old Soon-Yi Previn, who was the adopted daughter of whom? A: Mia Farrow
Q: In 1660, John Milton's books were burned in London because of his attacks on whom? A: Charles II
Q: What sea or ocean borders the country of Niger? A: None
Q: "An ""elegant, organic, and rigorously logical"" game of strategy developed in China more than 2,500 years ago is called...?" A: Go
Q: "Who wrote ""Devil May Care"", a James Bond novel, at the request of the trustees of the estate of original 007 author Ian Fleming?" A: Sebastian Faulks
Q: When is The Sundance Film Festival, that began in 1978 as the Utah/US Film Festival, held annually? A: January
Q: What is a Russian name for a type of savoury pancakes? A: Blinis
Q: In Australia, what name is given to two different kinds of crustacean: a type of crayfish and a type of shrimp? A: Yabby
Q: How could the majority of the land in Laos be described? A: Mountainous
Q: Which golfer won the US Open for two years in a row, in 1988 and 1989, and in 1988 became the first man to win a million dollars in official money on the PGA Tour in a season? A: Curtis Strange
Q: "Who founded the 1960s R 'n' B group ""Steam Packet"" with vocalist Rod Stewart and went on to form ""Trinity"", who Julie Driscoll sometimes sang with?" A: Brian Auger
Q: In 1980 Lech Walesa co-founded what trade union in Poland? A: Solidarity
Q: On what part of the body is a wimple worn? A: Head
Q: What was the surname of Marie, double Nobel laureate, and Pierre, also Nobel laureate? A: Curie
Q: On 3 June 2010, an episode of which British soap opera, which featured a hostage situation involving guns, was postponed after it was due to air on the same day as a a man shot 12 people dead and injured several more in Cumbria, England? A: Coronation Street
Q: "If, in expressing the past tense of sinking, the word ""have"" is not used as part of the verb, what is the correct form?" A: Sank
Q: Which name is associated with the IT developments which grew into Microsoft? A: Gates
Q: What unit of measurement is used to measure the height of a horse? A: Hands
Q: The Zambezi River flows into the Indian Ocean from where? A: Mozambique
Q: Who married Welsh actress Catherine Zeta Jones in 2000? A: Michael Douglas
Q: What band comprised David Byrne, Chris Frantz, Jerry Harrison and Tina Weymouth? A: Talking Heads
Q: The Crusaders from western Europe during their fourth crusade destroyed what major Orthodox Christian city in 1204? A: Constantinople
Q: "What appears on the usual logo for the musical ""West Side Story"" and is the setting for Maria and Tony's duet, ""Tonight""?" A: Fire escape
Q: Artist Ai Weiwei is resident, in 2014, in what country? A: People's Republic of China
Q: What is a species of marmot, also called a groundhog, found in parts of the USA? A: Woodchuck
Q: "Who sings the theme song to the UK TV series ""One Foot in the Grave""?" A: Eric Idle
Q: In 800AD, who became the first Holy Roman Emperor? A: Charlemagne
Q: Where is 0 longitude measured? A: Greenwich
Q: How many sports were competed at the first Olympic Games in 8th century BCE? A: 1
Q: Which NASA space shuttle was lost after exploding 73 seconds after lift off in 1986? A: Challenger
Q: The modern Olympic Games are named after games held originally in what country? A: Greece
Q: How many bones are there in the human body? A: 206
Q: Jill Munroe, Sabrina Duncan, Kelly Garrett, Kris Munroe, Tiffany Welles and Julie Rogers were characters in which US TV series? A: Charlie's Angels
Q: """Silverback"" is the name given to a dominant male what?" A: Gorilla
Q: When British navigator James Cook arrived at what are now called Cook Islands what did he name them? A: Hervey Islands
Q: Who was made an honorary citizen of Haslach, Austria, in 1938, an honour withdrawn in 2004? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Bodyboarding is recorded among Hawaiians when? A: 1778
Q: What are shallots and scallions? A: Onions
Q: Who was the London-based Australian music impresario who managed John Leyton, Cream, Peter Frampton and The Bee Gees? A: Robert Stigwood
Q: Inspector Morse of the TV series (1987-2000) of the same name was very reticent about his first name; the name eventually revealed then became the title of a current prequel, but what was it? A: Endeavour
Q: What were the first names of the Irish poet and dramatist W B Yeats? A: William Butler
Q: A lastingly popular game released in 1991 by Psygnosis was called what? A: Lemmings
Q: "What does the acronym ""DOA"" mean?" A: Dead on arrival
Q: "What does the expression ""e and oe"" mean?" A: Errors and omissions excepted
Q: A number written without any fractions is technically known as what? A: Integer
Q: "What is the name of the main character, a senior bank clerk, in Franz Kafka's unfinished novel ""The Trial""?" A: Josef K
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""East of Eden""?" A: John Steinbeck
Q: What city was the sewerage system built by Sir Joseph Bazalgette in the late 19th century designed to serve? A: London, UK
Q: "Who was the director of ""The Maltese Falcon"" and ""The African Queen""?" A: John Huston
Q: The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago at its nearest point lies how far from the coast of the South American continent? A: 11 km
Q: In 2008, Keira Knightley played the title role in which film? A: The Duchess
Q: LeBron James has won how many Olympic medals in basketball? A: 3
Q: A well-known Scottish actor, born Anthony Robert McMillan, took his stage name in honour of which jazz musician? A: John Coltrane
Q: Dick York, Dick Sargent, David White and Paul Lynde worked together on what US TV serial in the 1960s and 1970s? A: Bewitched
Q: The De Beers company is an important company in the trading of what commodity world-wide? A: Diamonds
Q: Where would a Mercator Projection be employed? A: On a map
Q: What position did Liechtenstein take during World War II? A: Neutrality
Q: What type of opera is Puccini's Gianni Schicchi? A: Comedy
Q: Cherries produce fruit in which season of the year? A: Summer
Q: Where is the 337,000 km2 Taklamakan Desert? A: China
Q: "Near what would one find an ""ingle nook""?" A: Fireplace
Q: The ancient sport of Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu involves riding or taming what? A: Bulls
Q: "A ""fingerplate"" is a piece of metal used to deter fingermarks appearing on what?" A: Doors
Q: From Hainan in the north to and including Singapore in the south, and including the Gulf of Thailand, how many countries have coasts on the South China Sea? A: 9
Q: Gouache, pointillism, and sable are terms which can be found in what discipline? A: Painting
Q: Andrew Lloyd Webber's Really Useful Group purchased which historic London theatre in 2000? A: Palladium
Q: Who is reflected in the name for the Philippines? A: King Philip II of Spain
Q: "What is the main ingredient of ""tarte tatin""?" A: Apple
Q: "Who, in the 19th century, was commissioned by King Ludwig II of Bavaria to complete his ""Ring Cycle""?" A: Richard Wagner
Q: Kazakhstan was the home country of which fictional eponymous film character? A: Borat
Q: Which country became independent from imperial China in 938 AD in the Battle of Bch ng River? A: Vietnam
Q: A major canal link between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans was named what? A: Panama
Q: Iraq lies between Syria to the west and what country to the east? A: Iran
Q: Harry Webb, who performs under the name of Cliff Richard, was born where? A: India
Q: "Who released the album ""The Transformed Man"" in 1968?" A: William Shatner
Q: Who is the 2014 World Snooker Champion? A: Mark Selby
Q: Where would you find the machair? A: Scotland
Q: Which 1962 film directed by Roman Polanski shows the differences in economic status of an unemployed youth and a successful older man, played out as a psychological contest to possess the older man's wife? A: Knife In The Water
Q: Leonid Kravchuk, Leonid Kuchma, Viktor Yanukovych, Viktor Yushchenko and Yulia Tymoshenko were political figures in which country? A: Ukraine
Q: "What was the setting for the novel ""Anne of Green Gables"" by Lucy Maud Montgomery?" A: Prince Edward Island
Q: "Who directed the pilot episode of the award-winning US TV series ""Boardwalk Empire""?" A: Martin Scorsese
Q: With what country was the game of Senet first associated? A: Egypt
Q: Who is the only 20th century US president carved into Mount Rushmore? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: In 1291 a number of mainly alpine European communities formed a protective alliance which with the later addition of others became what is now known as what? A: Switzerland
Q: Thomas Telford is associated with which field? A: Engineering
Q: Which Nobel prize-winning British playwright died in December 2008? A: Harold Pinter
Q: What 1973 film, based on a novel by French ex-convict Henri Charrire, starred Steve McQueen & Dustin Hoffman? A: Papillon
Q: The influential 1848 Cambridge University rules for football were drawn up with the participation of what groups? A: English public schools
Q: The Victoria Falls are on the border of Zimbabwe and which other country? A: Zambia
Q: Famous in NBA Basketball, Michael Jordan first retired in 1993 to develop a career in what? A: Baseball
Q: What is a sextant used for? A: Marine navigation
Q: What light-sensitive tissue lines the inner surface of the eye? A: Retina
Q: What pollinates the tubular, bright red flowers of the Salvia coccinea (known as Texas Sage, Scarlet Sage, or Blood Sage), a species of flowering plant native to the south of North America, the Caribbean, and the north of South America? A: Hummingbirds
Q: What is used in paper or textile making, and to form a protective coating on a canvas or other surface to be used for some art techniques? A: Size
Q: What play does the character Blanche Dubois appear in? A: A Streetcar Named Desire
Q: Renowned sportsman Michael Phelps decided in 2014 to come out of retirement and compete in what sport? A: Swimming
Q: As at 2014, when will the next Winter Olympics be held? A: 2018
Q: What name is given to the external set of floral leaves or sepals in a flower? A: Calyx
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""The Love Song of J Albert Prufrock""?" A: T S Eliot
Q: The Richter Scale used for measuring the energy released by earthquakes, mostly replaced since 1979 by the MMS (moment magnitude scale), was developed by Charles Richter and which other scientist? A: Beno Gutenberg
Q: "Which album by Fleetwood Mac including the single releases ""Go Your Own Way"", ""Don't Stop"", ""Dreams"" and ""You Make Loving Fun"" was #1 on album charts in Australia, Canada, Netherlands, New Zealand, South Africa, the UK & the USA?" A: Rumours
Q: When Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 was brought down by hostile fire over East Ukraine on 17 July 2014 what was the death toll of passengers and crew? A: 298
Q: "What town is the setting for the film ""It's a Wonderful Life""?" A: Bedford Falls
Q: Who plays the role of Hagrid in the Harry Potter series of films? A: Robbie Coltrane
Q: An isotherm is a line denoting equal what? A: Temperature
Q: Founded in 1934, the IBF was the international governing body for what? A: Badminton
Q: After what or who is the continent to the north of Africa named? A: Europa
Q: When was the Company of Scottish Archers, thought to be one of the oldest sporting bodies in the world, formed? A: 1676
Q: When Britain fought the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, the forces it opposed were from France and which other country? A: Spain
Q: December 31 1960 was the last day for which coin, first minted in England in the 13th century, to be legal tender in the United Kingdom? A: Farthing
Q: Where did the car manufacturer Renault originate? A: France
Q: The 1984 Winter Olympics were the first conducted under the presidency of whom? A: Juan Antonio Samaranch
Q: What programme would feature James May, Richard Hammond, and Jeremy Clarkson as presenters? A: Top Gear
Q: What is the name for Government House, Canberra, the official residence of the Governor-General of Australia? A: Yarralumla
Q: The Mesa Verde National Park with its ancient cliff cities is found where? A: USA
Q: "Which English poet, Roman Catholic convert, and Jesuit priest, whose 20th-century fame established him posthumously among the leading Victorian poets, was praised because ""his experimental explorations in prosody ... and his use of imagery established him as a daring innovator in a period of largely traditional verse""?" A: Gerard Manley Hopkins
Q: Who did Rock Hudson play opposite in a series of romantic comedy films in the 1960s? A: Doris Day
Q: What name is given to the stage of a butterfly's life when it lives in a chrysalis? A: Pupal
Q: Mascagni's one act opera Cavalleria Rusticana is often performed as a double bill with which other opera? A: I Pagliacci
Q: In which year did the space shuttle Challenger explode 73 seconds after lift off? A: 1986
Q: What is the principal language on the Galapagos Islands? A: Spanish
Q: In Los Angeles, California, USA, African-American Rodney Glen King III was beaten severely by police after leading them on a high speed chase and resisting arrest, leading to massive rioting by African-Americans in the Los Angeles area when the police officers involved were acquitted. When did the beating happen? A: March 3, 1991
Q: "If someone is said to have ""kissed the Blarney Stone"" what qualities are they being described as having?" A: Eloquence, or skill at flattery
Q: The wife of Humphrey Verdon Roe, with whom she founded a ground-breaking clinic in Britain, was also an author, palaeobotanist and campaigner for women's rights. What was the field in which she is known for pioneering effective, widespread and consistent action? A: Birth control
Q: Where would be the best place to see the Andean Condor in its native environment? A: Peru
Q: What state, earlier known as the Bohemian Kingdom and part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the time of the Empire's dissolution at the end of World War I, was formed in 1918? A: Czechoslovakia
Q: In the 1960s Tom Elwes instituted which championship in Congham in Norfolk, England? A: World Snail Racing Championship
Q: What is the technical term for measles? A: Morbilli
Q: Who destroyed the Temple built by Solomon in Jerusalem? A: Nebuchadnezzar
Q: A famous round-robin chess tournament, one of the first super tournaments, was conducted in Hastings in England from August 5 to September 2 of what year? A: 1895
Q: A spinoff from the BBC TV series In the Thick of It was which 2009 film, also starring Peter Capaldi? A: In the Loop
Q: The National Gallery of British Art, built on the site of Millbank Prison and opened in 1897, became commonly known as the Tate Gallery. What was it officially renamed in 2000, and now displays only historical and contemporary British art? A: Tate Britain
Q: What is the city, founded in the 8th century AD and for more than 400 years a significant cultural, commercial, and intellectual centre for the Islamic world until it was destroyed by the Mongols in 1258? A: Baghdad, Iraq
Q: What leaves relieve pain caused by stinging nettle? A: Dock
Q: Which country in Southeast Asia, and bordering Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore and Brunei, consists of 13 states and 3 Federal Territories which are separated by the South China Sea into two regions? A: Malaysia
Q: Ted Sorensen was an advisor, lawyer and writer, best known as special counsel and adviser, speechwriter and alter ego to which US president, whom he called his intellectual blood bank? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: "The musical ""Calamity Jane"" is set in which town?" A: Deadwood, South Dakota
Q: A kukri is a crooked knife traditionally used by which regiment in the British army? A: Brigade of Gurkhas
Q: Where is the Bayerische Staatsoper's home base? A: Munich
Q: "If water is described as ""brackish"" it has a high concentration of what?" A: Salt
Q: Which film, directed by Howard Hawks and starring John Wayne and Montgomery Clift, was about a cattle drive to Abilene, Kansas? A: Red River
Q: Time magazine was founded in 1923 by whom? A: Henry Luce
Q: "The wine ""Tokay"" originated where?" A: Hungary
Q: Who was Governor of South Australia 1841-1845, Governor of New Zealand 1845-1854 & 1861-1868, Governor of Cape Colony 1854-1861 and Premier of New Zealand 1877-1879? A: George Grey
Q: What area became an independent country from Australia in 1975? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: Who was on the British throne when Balmoral Castle was bought for their use? A: Victoria
Q: Which tyre company produces a hotel and restaurant guide? A: Michelin
Q: What is the capital of Nicaragua? A: Managua
Q: When is the Chinese New Year, and the Spring Festival, for 2015 as dated in the western Gregorian Calendar? A: 19 February
Q: "Who published almost 100 books on many subjects, including his autobiography ""My Life and Times"" (10 vols, 1963-1971), ""The Four Winds Of Love"" (6 vols, 1937-45), ""Whisky Galore"" (1947) and ""Monarch of the Glen"" (1941)?" A: Compton MacKenzie
Q: US basketballer LeBron James caused headlines in 2010 and 2014 by first leaving and then returning to what team? A: Cleveland Cavaliers
Q: What vehicle was driven by Starsky and Hutch in the US TV programme? A: Ford Torino
Q: "The children's book ""Swallows and Amazons"" by Arthur Ransome is set in what area of Great Britain?" A: Lake District
Q: Started as early as 1888, professional competitions offering trophies testing and displaying cowboy and vaquero skills are called what? A: Rodeo
Q: Palinka, made from various kinds of fruit, most commonly plums, pears, apricot, or peaches, is a traditional type of what? A: Brandy
Q: Who was the wife of Richard I of England (the Lionheart)? A: Berengaria of Navarre
Q: John Mills won an Oscar in 1970 for his role in which film? A: Ryan's Daughter
Q: The Tumuc-Humac Mountains are between Brazil and where else? A: Suriname and French Guiana
Q: If The Beatles were listed in a 1969 telephone book, who would be the last to be listed? A: Ringo
Q: The 1996 Port Arthur massacre, carried out by a single gunman, took place where? A: Port Arthur, Tasmania, Australia
Q: When was the last year in which the Summer and Winter Olympics were held in the same country and in the same year? A: 1936
Q: "Who is the king of the title of ""The Return of the King""?" A: Aragorn
Q: "What is the German equivalent of the word ""mister""?" A: Herr
Q: When did freestyle skiing first became a sport contested at the World Olympics? A: 1992
Q: "Which British comic strip character who appeared from September 1954 as a feature in ""Tiger"" magazine, had his own weekly comic from September 1976, which ran for 853 issues until March 1993?" A: Roy of the Rovers
Q: "In Jules Verne's book ""20,000 Leagues Under the Sea"", who captained the submarine the ""Nautilus""?" A: Captain Nemo
Q: In 1979 Briton Anthony Blunt was exposed as a Soviet spy. What was his area of interest? A: Art
Q: Since the start of the present ice age about 2.5 million years ago at least how many severe glacial periods have there been? A: 17
Q: "Who entitled his autobiography ""My Wicked, Wicked Ways""?" A: Errol Flynn
Q: What name was given to teenage boys who wore drainpipe trousers and liked rock and roll in 1950s Britain? A: Teddy boys
Q: After Mao Zedong's death his wife, together with others of the Gang of Four, was put on trial and sentenced to death; when did she die? A: 1991
Q: "Who composed ""The Ride of the Valkyrie"" which premired in Munich in 1870?" A: Richard Wagner
Q: A red snapper is a type of what? A: Fish
Q: The Republic of Chad is predominantly what type of land? A: Desert
Q: Who was the guitarist for David Bowie's recording and performing band from 1970 to 1974? A: Mick Ronson
Q: "Who sings the theme song for the UK TV series ""New Tricks""?" A: Dennis Waterman
Q: "Who was the main character in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novels ""A Study In Scarlet"", ""The Sign of Four"" and ""The Hound of the Baskervilles""?" A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: Flowers of papilionaceous plants resemble what? A: Butterflies
Q: Who played the character of Alex P. Keaton in all seven series of a 1980s sitcom? A: Michael J Fox
Q: King William III of England was a prince of what European house? A: Orange
Q: "The phrase to be in the ""limelight"" refers to burning of what as a brilliant light source in old theatre and music hall performances?" A: Quicklime
Q: What is an American food made from small pieces of cornmeal bread that are deep fried or baked, the ingredients of which include cornmeal, flour, eggs, salt, baking soda, milk, and water, and sometimes kernel corn, onion, spring onion and peppers? A: Hushpuppies
Q: """The Miracles"" backed which singer?" A: Smokey Robinson
Q: Chris O'Dowd plays the imaginary friend of a young boy in rural Ireland in which TV series? A: Moone Boy
Q: What was the most famous work of writer L. Frank Baum, who wrote from 1897 to 1912? A: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz
Q: "Who wrote the story on which Alfred Hitchcock's 1963 film ""The Birds"" was based?" A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: Which episode of Star Wars is being filmed 2014-15? A: Seven
Q: "What would you mainly expect to see on the US TV series ""The Jeff Probst Show""?" A: Talking
Q: "Which American country music singer-songwriter, born in 1934, won two Grammy Awards of 2005, (Best Country Album and Best Country Collaboration with Vocals) for her album ""Van Lear Rose"", which was produced by Jack White of the White Stripes?" A: Loretta Lynn
Q: In what field would the terms Nikkei, Dow, and DAX be used? A: Financial
Q: "What are the missing words in this phrase from the UK TV series starting in 1952 ""Bill and Ben, the .... Men""?" A: Flower Pot
Q: What sort of animal is a salamander? A: Amphibian
Q: The cedilla appears under what letter in some French words? A: C
Q: The characters of Doris Schwartz and Leroy Johnson appeared in what 1980s TV series? A: Fame
Q: What river falls over the Angel Falls, Venezuela, the world's highest uninterrupted waterfall? A: Gauja River
Q: The first Sovereign to reign over England, Scotland, and Ireland simultaneously was James who ruled in Scotland as James VI from the age of 18 months, and in England and Ireland as James I from 1603. He was the first King of England of which Royal House? A: Stuart
Q: What is the main ingredient in biriani? A: Rice
Q: "What breed of dog was the film star ""Lassie""?" A: Collie
Q: What type of creature is a salamander? A: Amphibian
Q: "Who wrote the 6 ""Brandenburg Concertos""?" A: Bach
Q: In a coup in 2006, who seized power in Fiji? A: Frank Bainimarama
Q: Which film by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger was about a young ballet dancer who defies the producer by being in love with a composer, and starred Moira Shearer, Robert Helpmann and Marius Goring? A: The Red Shoes
Q: Who did Peter Sellers marry in 1964? A: Britt Eklund
Q: "Who wrote ""The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"" and ""Rip Van Winkle""?" A: Washington Irving
Q: "Eric Clapton recorded an album with whom called ""Riding With the King""?" A: B.B. King
Q: "What does the SI unit ""Pascal"" measure?" A: Pressure
Q: Hippocrates who lived in the 5th century BCE is remembered for his work and knowledge in what area? A: Medicine
Q: Who first demonstrated his safety mechanism for elevator operation at the 1853 New York World's Fair? A: Elisha Otis
Q: "What was the name of the taxi company in the US TV series ""Taxi""?" A: Sunshine Cab Company
Q: Hertz is the standard SI unit for the measurement of what? A: Radio frequency
Q: What is Rachel Hunter's profession? A: Supermodel
Q: When was the spacecraft Rosetta launched to make contact with comet 67P/ChuryumovGerasimenko (67P)? A: March 2004
Q: "Who had a hit in 1967 with ""Silence is Golden""?" A: The Tremoloes
Q: "Who released the albums ""Hounds of Love"" and ""The Red Shoes""?" A: Kate Bush
Q: Which Walt Disney animated feature film bombed when it was first released in 1940, only eventually reaching profit in 1945? A: Pinocchio
Q: "Who wrote the book ""Angela's Ashes""?" A: Frank McCourt
Q: What was the title of John Denver's song about Jacques Cousteau's boat? A: Calypso
Q: In 1854, John Snow proved that what was transmitted by infected water? A: Cholera
Q: "Whose novel ""Wives and Daughters"", about Molly Gibson, the only daughter of a doctor in a provincial English town in the 1830s, was completed by Frederick Greenwood when the author died suddenly in 1865?" A: Elizabeth Gaskell
Q: "Which 20th century musical is based on Shakespeare's ""Romeo and Juliet""?" A: West Side Story
Q: "This actor is the youngest of 5 children, his great-grandfather was blind and a piano tuner and music teacher, he acts frequently with his wife, he won a Primetime Emmy Awards 2014 for Outstanding Actor, and among many films and TV series starred in the film version of ""The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy""; who is he?" A: Martin Freeman
Q: Which team beat Australia 34 - 20 in the Rugby League World Cup final in 2008? A: New Zealand
Q: What country was the first country in Oceania, and fifteenth overall, to legalise same-sex marriage? A: New Zealand
Q: What was the name of spacecraft which created history on 12 November 2014 and landed a probe on a comet? A: Rosetta
Q: What is 0 degrees Celsius on the Fahrenheit scale? A: 32 degrees
Q: The annual International Tree Climbing Championship is held under the auspices of which organisation? A: ISA
Q: Where in the UK is the only remaining Hanseatic warehouse, built to house the trade which operated out of that harbour under the Hanseatic League? A: King's Lynn
Q: Egg and spoon races were staged as part of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations for Queen Elizabeth II in 2012. When was the earliest recorded reference in the Oxford English Dictionary to an egg and spoon race? A: 1894
Q: What term is used to describe the nesting place of colony forming seabirds, some seals and sea lions, and even some turtles? A: Rookery
Q: """Everything's All Right"" and ""Heaven on Their Minds"" are songs from which musical?" A: Jesus Christ Superstar
Q: Limes became part of the British Royal Navy's diet in an attempt to prevent what? A: Scurvy
Q: Where was opera singer Maria Callas born? A: USA
Q: The main ingredients of advocaat (or advokat), a rich and creamy liqueur with a smooth, custard-like flavour, are sugar, brandy and what else? A: Eggs
Q: What was the subtitle of the book Frankenstein by Mary Shelley? A: The Modern Prometheus
Q: What kind of film is director/writer Jacques Tati known for? A: Comedy
Q: Who is the latest actor to portray Alan Turing's fiance, Joan Clarke, in film? A: Keira Knightley
Q: "Who created the ""Piet"" in St Peter's Basilica, the ""Doni Tondo"" in the Uffizi Gallery, and the sequence of poems written to Tommaso dei Cavalieri?" A: Michelangelo Buonarotti
Q: What type of land constitutes most of the country of Gabon on the west coast of Africa? A: Rainforest
Q: Who was Britain's only Prime Minister of Jewish birth? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: With what decade was the Dust Bowl, the period of prolonged dust storms and severe drought, in the USA and Canada mainly associated? A: 1930s
Q: With what film company did Tom and Jerry make their first appearance in animated film cartoons? A: MGM
Q: Which American singer, songwriter, record producer and actress who made her recording debut in 1990 under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, married him in 1993, separated in 1997, and married actor & rapper Nick Cannon in 2008? A: Mariah Carey
Q: The National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations was licensed in 2006 as what? A: National securities exchange
Q: What name is given to the age at the end of which the extinction event happened which saw the end of the dinosaur? A: Cretaceous
Q: "A 2002 romantic comedy film written by and starring Nia Vardalos and directed by Joel Zwick is ""My Big Fat Greek ..."" what?" A: Wedding
Q: Who is the only president of the USA to have been elected four times? A: Franklin D Roosevelt
Q: What is the language most commonly spoken in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan? A: Urdu
Q: In 1990 a strip of land seceded from its then parent country and called itself Transnistria, or Trans-Dniester; what is the parent country? A: Moldova
Q: Where is the city of Medellin? A: Colombia
Q: The discovery of the process of vulcanisation is most closely associated in the modern context with whom? A: Charles Goodyear
Q: Which is the seat of National Parliament and the legislative capital of South Africa? A: Cape Town
Q: "Who wrote, in 1894: ""In its majestic equality, the law forbids rich and poor alike to sleep under bridges, beg in the streets and steal a loaf of bread""?" A: Anatole France
Q: "In which field would the term ""chiaroscuro"" usually be applied?" A: Painting
Q: "What is the meaning of the German word ""Gesundheit"", said after a sneeze?" A: Health
Q: Three quarters of the east boundary of the Republic of Malawi is what? A: Lake Nyasa
Q: By the time Warcraft III was issued in 2003 the playable races were Orcs, Humans, Night Elves and which other? A: Undead
Q: Warren Beatty played what comic strip character in a 1990 film? A: Dick Tracy
Q: Which was not a medium used by British artist J.M.W.Turner to create his works? A: Sculpture
Q: What is a common factor in the careers of Giacomo Puccini, Paul McCartney, and Arthur Sullivan? A: Opera
Q: "Which all-girl group had hits with ""Whole Again"", ""Eternal Flame"", ""It's OK!"" and ""The Tide Is High (Get the Feeling)""?" A: Atomic Kitten
Q: Hamlet in the play of the same name was a Prince of which country? A: Denmark
Q: "Who wrote the aria ""O mio babbino caro""?" A: Puccini
Q: "Who wrote the ""Outlander"" series of novels, in which the heroine, Claire Randall, travels in time?" A: Diana Gabaldon
Q: An computer game first released in 1993 and drawing inspiration from Rube Goldberg devices, or Heath Robinson or Storm P thinking, is what? A: The Incredible Machine
Q: Frida Kahlo, famous for her paintings, many of them self-portraits, was married to which other artist? A: Mexican painter Diego Rivera
Q: "What is the basis of ""pesto"" sauce?" A: Basil
Q: What satirical musical by Kyle Jarrow about L. Ron Hubbard that pokes fun at his science fiction writing and personal beliefs, was originally presented in 2003 in New York City by Les Freres Corbusier (winning an Obie Award) and received a Garland Award for the director for the 2004 Los Angeles production? A: A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant
Q: "At the awards for ""The Best of the Booker"", a special prize awarded in commemoration of the Booker Prize's 40th anniversary, it was noted that two authors had won the Booker twice, J.M. Coetzee and who else?" A: Peter Carey
Q: What government system is in place in Lesotho, an enclave in the Republic of South Africa? A: Parliamentary or constitutional monarchy
Q: Which one of these has no part to play in the ring at a bull fight? A: Ecuador
Q: The early Great Wall of China built in the tears following 221 BCE, new or by reinforcing existing remains of walls, by the Emperor, Qin Shi Huang, was intended to protect the newly unified empire against whom? A: The Xiongnu people from the north
Q: Whose germ theory led to his devising a means to heat-treat milk to reduce disease? A: Pasteur
Q: Which country's territory includes a long narrow east-west tongue separating Zambia from Botswana? A: Namibia
Q: "The 1987 record ""La Bamba"" was by which artist?" A: Los Lobos
Q: Epsom salts, traditionally used in bath salts and in agriculture, are what mineral compound? A: Magnesium sulphate
Q: Mathematicians or code breakers from what country were the first to break the codes in the Enigma machines used by the German military from the 1920s to the 1940s? A: Poland
Q: Characteristics of gothic church architecture include tall designs, flying buttresses, vaulted ceilings, light and air, gargoyles, decorative and ornate finishes, and what else? A: Pointed arches
Q: "What is the overall subject of the sentence ""UTC replaced GMT in most places in the world on 1 January 1972""?" A: Time zones
Q: "In which English city is ""The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13 3/4"" by Sue Townsend, set?" A: Leicester
Q: Which was the 2013 sci-fi film which scored an Oscar for Best Director and starred Sandra Bullock and George Clooney? A: Gravity
Q: "Which film actress was born in Germany in 1904, went to America after appearing in the film ""Blue Angel"", and became an American citizen in 1937?" A: Marlene Dietrich
Q: What is a jury said to do when they leave the courtroom to decide on their verdict? A: Retire
Q: Which is the oldest of these religions to be recognised as a identifiable belief system? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: Who was the London-based Jewish music impresario who managed Gene Vincent, Small Faces, Electric Light Orchestra and Black Sabbath? A: Don Arden
Q: Prior to Kermit the Frog another Kermit was well-known; he accompanied his father Theodore Roosevelt, ex-President of the USA, on an expedition 1913-14 during which the River Kermit was named in his honour. Where was the expedition? A: The Amazon Basin
Q: "What was referred to in the title of Bill Bryson's book ""Notes From A Small Island""?" A: Britain
Q: "What member of the music and comedy duo ""The Flight of the Conchords"" was recently seen, under heavy disguise, as the Boris the Animal in the film ""Men in Black 3""?" A: Jemaine Clement
Q: "What is Pablo Picasso's 1967 work known as the ""Chicago Picasso""?" A: Sculpture
Q: "In which continent did Allan Quatermain, the explorer in H. Ryder Haggard's ""King Solomon's Mines"", search for the mines?" A: Africa
Q: What was the predecessor to the computer game Riven? A: Myst
Q: Which of Henry VIII's wives was the mother of Mary I? A: Catherine of Aragon
Q: What British motor car manufacturer, founded in 1909 by H.F.S. Morgan and run by him until 1959 when his son Peter Morgan took over until 1999, is currently run by Peter's son, Charles Morgan? A: The Morgan Motor Company
Q: The husband of Mumtaz designed and built what magnificent monument in India to her when she died in 1631? A: Taj Mahal
Q: If a shawm were a member of the modern orchestra what section would it be in? A: Woodwind
Q: In which continent does the Mekong River rise? A: Asia
Q: In 2014 what Formula One team was Lewis Hamilton driving for? A: Mercedes AMG
Q: Emperor Bokassa was overthrown as ruler of what country in September 1979? A: Central African Republic
Q: What is the name for a geometric figure with 3 sides? A: Triangle
Q: What fraction of a second is a nanosecond? A: One thousand millionth
Q: The first Winter Olympics was held in conjunction with 1924 Olympic Games and was originally called what? A: The Week of Winter Sports
Q: Who was re-elected President of the Republic of Germany in 1932 defeating Adolf Hitler? A: von Hindenburg
Q: "A ""prickly pear"" is a type of what?" A: Cactus
Q: "The contents of ""The Zimmermann Telegram"" of 16 January 1917 revealed a German plan to offer Mexico what territory in return for a military alliance against the USA?" A: Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona
Q: What was the first name of Inspector Maigret, a character created by George Simenon? A: Jules
Q: Crimea, over which multiple wars have been fought, was annexed from Ukraine in 2014 by which country? A: Russia
Q: What weapon is associated with Darth Vader? A: Light sabre
Q: Who created the character of Dracula? A: Bram Stoker
Q: Shallots and scallions are types of what? A: Onions
Q: Three great Siberian rivers are the Ob, Lena and which other? A: Yenisei
Q: "Which 20th century novelist wrote ""The Quiet American"", ""Stamboul Train"", ""Brighton Rock"" and ""The Power And The Glory""?" A: Graham Greene
Q: Who was the 2014 Formula One World Champion driver? A: Lewis Hamilton
Q: Who won the World Darts Championship 4 times in the 1980s? A: Eric Bristow
Q: What is the name of the style of roasting meat, whereby it is skewered on a spit and slowly rotated over a flame? A: Rotisserie
Q: "Which American jazz musician, clarinettist and bandleader, known as ""King of Swing"", ""Patriarch of the Clarinet"", ""The Professor"", and ""Swing's Senior Statesman"", in the mid-1930s led one of the most popular musical groups in America, which was also one of the first racially-integrated musical groups?" A: Benny Goodman
Q: The two official languages of Paraguay are Spanish and what other? A: Guarani
Q: The Great Barrier Reef lies off which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the highest hereditary title in the British peerage? A: Duke
Q: The shores of the African continent are variously on the Atlantic Ocean, the Indian Ocean, the Mediterranean Sea and which other body of water? A: The Red Sea
Q: Josephus who lived in the 1st century AD was a military commander and scholar but is now known more for his work as what? A: Historian
Q: "Who was one of the first female movie stars, called ""The First Lady of the Silent Screen"", who was the only star from the silent era to receive the American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award, and who received a Special Academy Award in 1971?" A: Lillian Gish
Q: Which retired English jockey was popularly known as the Long Fellow? A: Lester Piggott
Q: Brian Cox, who is known among other things for presenting science TV programmes in the UK, is a professor at the University of Manchester in what field? A: Particle Physics
Q: Rosalind Franklin, a biophysicist and X-ray crystallographer who made critical contributions to the understanding of DNA, RNA, and viruses, was what nationality? A: British
Q: The Five Eyes security intelligence gathering group is an alliance between USA, New Zealand, Australia, UK and what other country? A: Canada
Q: Who hosted and won the 1995 Rugby Union World Cup? A: South Africa
Q: What was the middle name of Franklin D Roosevelt? A: Delano
Q: Since 2006 Spencer Kelly has been presenting what TV show for the BBC? A: Click
Q: "What does the French word ""jambon"" mean in English?" A: Ham
Q: What is another name for the gladioli? A: Sword lily
Q: Broadsheet and tabloid are two types of what? A: Newspaper
Q: "Often celebrated as the first, and great, detective novel in English literature was ""The Moonstone"" by whom?" A: Wilkie Collins
Q: What are the thin leaves of conifers called? A: Needles
Q: Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim are most usually associated with which work? A: West Side Story
Q: "Who directed the film ""The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug""?" A: Peter Jackson
Q: When did twerking arrive on the American music scene? A: 1990s
Q: Who takes part in the annual Umhlanga Reed Dance in Swaziland? A: Childless, unmarried girls
Q: What was the first name of Doctor Barnardo? A: Thomas
Q: What was the fictional TV family, with children named John, Jason, Mary Ellen, Erin, Benjamin, James Robert and Elizabeth, that first came to US TV screens in 1972? A: The Waltons
Q: What is the official language in Guyana, on the South America mainland and on the southern limits of the Caribbean? A: English
Q: "Where was the film ""Angel At My Table"" (1990), starring New Zealander Kerry Fox, directed by New Zealander Jane Campion, and based on books by New Zealand writer Janet Frame, made?" A: Australia
Q: The ancient city of Carthage is in which modern day country ? A: Tunisia
Q: The UK TV channel BBC developed a crime drama series, featuring Kenneth Branagh as the lead detective; what was the series called? A: Wallander
Q: "The pasta called ""conchiglie"" is in the shape of what?" A: Seashells
Q: With whom did CM Punk hold the World Tag Team Championships? A: Kofi Kingston
Q: On 24 June 2010 Julia Gillard was elected to the leadership of her party and therefore became Prime Minister of Australia. Who was the previous Prime Minister? A: Kevin Rudd
Q: In Japan's feudal era, from 1185 onwards, a dominant warrior class emerged called what? A: Samurai
Q: Where did the Spring of Nations, or the Year of Revolutions, happen in 1848? A: Europe
Q: """In the Land of Blood and Honey"", set in Sarajevo in the 1990s in the Bosnian war, was the directorial debut of what USA actress?" A: Angelina Jolie
Q: "Which former President of the USA was the father of American actress and author Patti Davis, who was called the ""black sheep"" of the family and had many well publicised conflicts with her parents?" A: Ronald Reagan
Q: A Blue Ringtail is a type of what? A: Damselfly
Q: Pol Pot was overthrown as ruler of what country in 1979? A: Cambodia
Q: Which Winter Olympics sport has involved the use of a .30-06 Springfield? A: Biathlon
Q: How many official languages does South Africa have? A: 11
Q: "Who wrote the books ""Blott on the Landscape"" and ""Porterhouse Blue""?" A: Tom Sharpe
Q: Erik the Red from Norway founded the first successful Norse settlement on Greenland, and then his son Leif continued the tradition of exploring west and landed where? A: North America
Q: Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler are known for their work in what area? A: Detective fiction
Q: Barbara Vine is another writing name for which author? A: Ruth Rendell
Q: Who was the last white president of South Africa? A: F W de Klerk
Q: What office exercises executive authority over the island of St Helena? A: The British monarchy
Q: Where did the 2014 Umbrella Revolution happen? A: Hong Kong
Q: Te Ika a Maui and Te Waipounamu are the two main islands of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Leonid Brezhnev led the Soviet Union as General Secretary then as Chairman of the Presidium, the longest term as leader since Josef Stalin; who was his immediate successor? A: Yuri Andropov
Q: The .44 Magnum was made famous by which fictional TV policeman? A: Dirty Harry
Q: Zurich SC Lions have been European Champions in which sport? A: Ice hockey
Q: "The song ""Why Does It Always Rain on Me"" is by which band?" A: Travis
Q: Griffin was the main character in which book by H G Wells? A: The Invisible Man
Q: In 1968 the first Legoland was established where? A: Billund, Denmark
Q: King James VI of Scotland was also King James I of where? A: England
Q: How are the strings sounded in a spinet? A: Plucked
Q: Where in Australian is the Broncos rugby league team based? A: Brisbane
Q: Traditionally, mozzarella cheese is made from milk from which animal? A: Buffalo
Q: "In the original Star Trek TV series which aired in the USA from 1966 to 1969, who played ""Scotty""?" A: James Doohan
Q: Who was the youngest person, at the time, to be elected to the office of president of the USA? A: John Kennedy
Q: "What kind of quality is ""priapic""?" A: Lustful
Q: What most nearly describes the position of the human spine in relation to the heart? A: Dorsal
Q: The civil rights advocate, published writer and singer, Pauley Perrette, is also known as Abbey Sciuto the forensic scientist in what US TV series (2003-present)? A: N.C.I.S.
Q: As at 2February 2015, when she won No 1 ranking in women's professional golf, what age was Lydia Ko? A: 17
Q: Clematis vitalba, a plant of the Ranunculaceae family, is also known as Traveller's Joy and what other name? A: Old man's beard
Q: Where were the Commonwealth Games held in 2014? A: Glasgow, Scotland
Q: "Based on a UK political drama TV series of the same name, the US version featuring the actor Kevin Spacey is called ""House..."" what?" A: Of Cards
Q: Which monarch presided in Great Britain over the time of the French Revolution, Britain's loss of its American colonies, and two decisive defeats of the French? A: George III
Q: Bogot is the capital of which country? A: Colombia
Q: "Giovanni Boccaccio, who is best known for his work ""Decameron"" was involved in what type of activity?" A: Poetry
Q: "How many books are there in the ""Harry Potter"" series by J K Rowling?" A: 7
Q: As at 2015, after he was runner-up in the Australian Open, what is Scotsman Andy Murray's world ranking in tennis? A: 5
Q: Who sang with the Animals? A: Eric Burdon
Q: Vidkun Quisling, infamous in Europe, allied himself and his country for a time with what other European figure? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: What part of the body does interstitial nephritis affect? A: Kidneys
Q: """Fanny and Alexander"", a Swedish/French/German co-production classic about a Swedish family in Uppsala released in 1982, was directed by whom?" A: Ingmar Bergman
Q: In which area is part or all of the Dakar Rally run since 2008? A: South America
Q: What age (in years) does a horse have to be to run in the Epsom Derby? A: Three
Q: The government of the Andaman Islands archipelago is divided between India and which other country? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: "The US TV series ""The In-Betweeners"", the remake of the UK series of the same name, featured the writer of ""My Name is Earl"" Brad Copeland for several episodes, and director Taika Waititi from the 2004 Academy Award nominated short film called what?" A: Two Cars: One Night
Q: "The podcast which grew out of ""This American Life"", and first aired in 2014, is called...?" A: Serial
Q: A cheroot is a type of what? A: Cigar
Q: From which country do the professional boxers, the Klitschko brothers originate? A: Ukraine
Q: Toronto, Canada, is on the northern shore of which lake? A: Ontario
Q: Which English king was removed from the throne in 1399? A: Richard II
Q: Java, Borneo, Bali, and Sulawesi are what? A: Islands
Q: """General Sherman"" in California, USA, is the name of what?" A: A tree
Q: Who is singer and actor Miley Cyrus's godmother? A: Dolly Parton
Q: "English poet John Keats composed five odes in 1819: The ""Ode on Indolence"", ""Ode on Melancholy"", ""Ode to a Nightingale"", ""Ode to Psyche"" and which other?" A: Ode on a Grecian Urn
Q: The horse Red Rum finished second twice in the British Grand National, in 1975 and 1976; Rag Trade and which other were the horses that beat him? A: L'Escargot
Q: Which sport is track designer Udo Gurgel most associated with? A: Bobsleigh
Q: What type of being is a cicada? A: Insect
Q: Which major Roman road in England linked London to the Fosse Way, passing through Hemel Hempstead, Berkhamsted, Tring, Aylesbury and Bicester before changing direction towards the south-west, passing Woodstock and Witney to the north before heading into Cirencester? A: Akeman Street
Q: The shallow Java Sea is between the islands of Java and what? A: Borneo
Q: What country is the origin of the wine tokay? A: Hungary
Q: What is the principal ingredient of slivovitz brandy? A: Plum
Q: Dame Barbara Hepworth is known mainly for her work in sculpture but later in her career was known for work in what other medium? A: Lithography
Q: Which comic character was introduced in More Fun Comics #73 in November 1941? A: Aquaman
Q: Which country saw the closest finish in a World Rallly Championship event, when, in 2007, Marcus Gronholm beat Sebastian Loeb by 0.3 of a second? A: New Zealand
Q: Glenn Miller, famous as a band leader in the 1930s & 1940s, played which instrument? A: Trombone
Q: The most immediate sea to the east of Drake Passage, south of South America, is what? A: Scotia Sea
Q: "What is an epic poem from Ancient Iraq, originally titled ""He who Saw the Deep"" or ""Surpassing All Other Kings"", of which the most complete version exists on 12 clay tablets in the library collection of the 7th century BCE Assyrian king Ashurbanipal?" A: The Epic of Gilgamesh
Q: "Who hosted the travel programmes ""Around the World in 80 Days"" (1989), ""Pole to Pole"" (1992), ""Full Circle"" (1997), and ""Hemingway Adventure"" (1999)?" A: Michael Palin
Q: Where is a proscenium arch usually found? A: In a theatre
Q: "In 1985, Barbara Dickson released ""I Know Him So Well"" from the musical Chess, which remains the biggest-selling record by a female duo, with what other singer?" A: Elaine Paige
Q: Who was the first soccer player to win 100 caps for England? A: Billy Wright
Q: "What fully-fledged fictional language, which has a number of typologically uncommon features, was deliberately designed to be ""non-human"" by Marc Okrand?" A: Klingon
Q: Which was the first of these Disney films to be released? A: The Jungle Book
Q: In 2010, Veera Musikapong, Abhisit Vejjajiva, Khattiya Sawasdiphol, Suthep Thaugsuban, Prompong Nopparit, Colonel Sansern Kaewkamnerd, Natthawut Saikua and Buranaj Smutharaks were prominent in the politics of which country? A: Thailand
Q: Around the upper Coppename River a nature reserve in what South American country has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its unspoiled forests and biodiversity? A: Suriname
Q: Peter Bogdanovich is well known for which activity? A: Film director
Q: The 2002 FIFA World Cup was held in two countries simultaneously, the first time, being South Korea and which other? A: Japan
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""You Only Live ... """ A: Twice
Q: Alexander Pushkin (1799-1837), revered as a great poet, also wrote which play or drama? A: Boris Godunov
Q: Table Mountain in South Africa overlooks which city? A: Cape Town
Q: What is a species in the legume family, native to North and South America, an annual herbaceous plant growing 30 to 50 cm (1 to 1 1/2 feet) tall? A: Peanut
Q: Which Shakespearean play is the basis for films directed by Orson Welles in 1948, Roman Polanski (1971), Geoffrey Wright (2006), Akira Kurosawa (1958), Billy Morrissette (2001), and Vishal Bharadwaj (2004)? A: Macbeth
Q: What is the southernmost point of the African continent? A: Cape Agulhas
Q: Gotye, an Australian multi-instrumentalist and singer-songwriter famous for award winning singles 2011 to 2013, including Grammy awards and Record of the Year, was born where? A: Belgium
Q: Louis Farrakhan, the National Representative of the Nation of Islam and an advocate for black interests, is an activist in which country? A: USA
Q: "In the musical ""The King and I"", who was ""I""?" A: Anna
Q: He is an alpine ski racer, who won four overall World Cup titles (1998, 2000, 2001, 2004), two Olympic gold medals (in 1998), and three World Championship titles (1999, 1999 and 2005). Who is he? A: Hermann Maier
Q: "The book ""I know why the caged bird sings"" was the first volume of the autobiography of an African-American poet, author, activist, academic, who died in May 2014 at the age of 86; who was it?" A: Maya Angelou
Q: Which town on the Isle of Wight has hosted an annual Regatta since 1851? A: Cowes
Q: Jimmy Somerville fronted which 1980s band? A: Bronski Beat
Q: In 1815 the Congress of Vienna created United Netherlands, but in 1830 the restive south split off again to form what? A: Belgium
Q: The Camel Cup, first held in 1970 in the dry bed of a river, is held where? A: Alice Springs, Australia
Q: "One of the stars from each of the film ""The Hobbit"" and the TV film ""Van Gogh: Painted with Words"" front the UK detective series called what?" A: Sherlock
Q: Who was the first British golfer to win the US Open Championship? A: Harry Vardon
Q: "The long-standing textbook, ""Anatomy"", by Henry Gray (1827-1861) owed much of its effectiveness to the illustrations which were drawn by whom?" A: Henry Vandyke Carter
Q: "What is an another name for ""Epoch Time""?" A: Unix Time
Q: What is the formation of vapour bubbles of a flowing liquid in a region where its pressure falls below its vapour pressure? A: Cavitation
Q: Which painter was particularly known for depicting the fte galantes of 18th century France? A: Watteau
Q: When were the annual All-Japan Judo Championships first held in Japan? A: 1930
Q: The Abigar, Brown Swiss, Groningen, and Holstein are all types of what? A: Cattle
Q: The Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands are part of what island grouping? A: The Lucayan Archipelago
Q: What is a medium-weight balanced plain-woven fabric, the name Indonesian in origin, that is made from dyed cotton or cotton-blend yarn? A: Gingham
Q: King Richard III of England died in which battle? A: Bosworth Field
Q: """Elia"" was the pseudonym of which author?" A: Charles Lamb
Q: If a lake is endorheic what can this imply? A: A saline lake
Q: "The famous collection of music, ""Songs from the Auvergne"" arranged by Joseph Canteloube, is in what language?" A: Occitan
Q: What is 17 year old New Zealander Lydia Ko's ranking in women's world golf at the start of 2015? A: 1
Q: What 2002 film starred Parminder Nagra, Keira Knightley and Jonathan Rhys Myers? A: Bend It Like Beckham
Q: What was the first general-purpose electronic computer capable of being reprogrammed to solve a full range of computing problems which, though designed to calculate artillery firing tables for the US Army's Ballistic Research Laboratory, was first used in calculations for the hydrogen bomb? A: ENIAC
Q: The major geologic exposures in the Grand Canyon in Arizona, USA, range in age from the 2 billion year old Vishnu Schist layers at the bottom of the Inner Gorge to the 230 million year old layer on the Rim which is called what? A: Kaibab Limestone
Q: All snowflakes are geometric figures with how many sides? A: 6
Q: "What is the next in this series: Millie, Ranger, Buddy, Spot ""Spotty"" Fletcher, Barney, Miss Beazley ... ?" A: Bo
Q: Brian Lochore was coach to the New Zealand team in the first World Cup in 1987 for what sport? A: Rugby
Q: When Lennox Lewis and Evander Holyfield competed in November 1999 what did they do to compete? A: Boxed
Q: The Council of Constance 1414-18 had the main purpose of ending the Three Popes Schism, and was convened by the Antipope John XXIII. John had two brothers who were sentenced to death for what? A: Piracy
Q: When is the Rabbinical Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, observed? A: 163 days after the first day of Passover
Q: What is Thailand's largest island? A: Phuket
Q: "Which German composer wrote 16 operas including ""Salome"", ""Electra"" and ""Der Rosenkavalier""?" A: Richard Strauss
Q: Which UK television series features a character called Mrs Bucket? A: Keeping Up Appearances
Q: Where was the 251km Marathon des Sables run in 2015? A: Sahara Desert
Q: "The group ""Smile"", formed in 1968 by Roger Taylor, Tim Staffel and Brian May, changed their name to what after Tim Staffel was replaced as vocalist?" A: Queen
Q: What is the clarified butter used in Indian cooking? A: Ghee
Q: "What is the name of the recording studio and record label established by Ray and Dave Davies, members of the British group ""The Kinks""?" A: Konk
Q: What cooking technique involves frying quickly in a small quantity of hot grease? A: Saut
Q: Where do the Tungusic peoples live? A: Eastern Siberia
Q: The first electric tramway in the former Russian Empire was established in 1892 where? A: Kiev
Q: The Venus Rosewater Dish is awarded to the winners of which tennis event? A: Wimbledon
Q: English artist, writer and musician Holly Johnson is best known as the lead vocalist of which 1980s band? A: Frankie Goes to Hollywood
Q: """The Hunchback of Notre Dame"" was originally written in what language?" A: French
Q: What condition, first described by Reginald Fitz in 1886 and characterised by inflammation of the blind-ended tube connected to the cecum, requires an immediate operation to prevent rupture of the tube and death from (mainly) peritonitis and shock? A: Appendicitis
Q: FEI, established 1921, is the international body governing what kind of sports? A: Equestrian
Q: "Which 1952 Hollywood musical film starring Danny Kaye includes many most famous stories such as ""The Ugly Duckling"", ""Thumbelina"", ""The Emperor's New Clothes"" and ""The Little Mermaid""?" A: Hans Christian Andersen
Q: Teal, mallard, muscovy and mandarin are all types of what? A: Duck
Q: Who was the second Stuart king on the English throne? A: Charles I
Q: Who was the first serving U.S. President to survive being shot in an assassination attempt? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: "Which Australian composer became particularly well-known for his theme, and incidental, music for the UK television series ""Inspector Morse""?" A: Barrington Pheloung
Q: "When Johnny Weissmuller left a championship career in sport to star in ""Tarzan"" films, what sport did he leave?" A: Swimming
Q: Where is Parma, which is famous for its cured ham? A: Northern Italy
Q: "Which of the core cast of the TV series ""Friends"" also appeared in the 2000 film ""The Whole Nine Yards"" with Bruce Willis?" A: Matthew Perry
Q: The father of Charlemagne, who was later to become a major force in Europe and Holy Roman Emperor, seized the Frankish throne from what dynasty in 751 CE? A: Merovingian
Q: "The US television serials ""The Good Wife"", ""Canterbury's Law"" and ""ER"" all have or have had which actor as one of the leads?" A: Julianna Margulies
Q: Which mathematician, physicist, engineer, inventor, and astronomer is credited with introducing the technology of the screw in the 3rd century BCE? A: Archimedes
Q: When was the Melbourne Cup first officially raced? A: 1861
Q: In 2009 Terry Herbert found a hoard of Saxon warrior metal artefacts on land owned by Fred Johnson, which has become known as the Staffordshire Hoard. Which ancient kingdom do the objects come from? A: Mercia
Q: Who joined the Five Nations Rugby Union Tournament to make it the Six Nations in 2000? A: Italy
Q: Which was the youngest of these four solo acts to reach number one on Billboard magazine's weekly pop singles chart? A: Donny Osmond
Q: What sort of creature is a lurcher? A: Dog
Q: "Who includes in his repertoire since 2009 films as different as ""Fantastic Mr Fox"", ""The Men Who Stare At Goats"", ""The Ides of March"", and ""Gravity""?" A: George Clooney
Q: "What is the setting for the John Carpenter film ""Halloween""?" A: Haddonfield, Illinois
Q: What particular type of cheese is made from the milk of water buffalo raised in designated areas of Lazio and Campania on the west coast of Italy? A: Mozzarella
Q: "The US television series ""NCIS"" (2003-now) focuses on criminal investigations involving what?" A: US Navy and Marine Corps
Q: "The band Aqua, well-known for their chart-topping single ""Barbie Girl"", released three albums - Aquarium in 1997, Aquarius in 2000 and which other?" A: Megalomania
Q: Where is the Mose Project, construction work on which began in 2003, being carried out? A: Venice, Italy
Q: Where did Harold of England fight William of Normandy in 1066? A: Hastings
Q: Where is the 250km (150 miles) long Offa's Dyke? A: Wales
Q: "Who had a number 1 hit in 1990 with ""Opposites Attract""?" A: Paula Abdul
Q: Which is a definition of hardwood? A: Wood from dicot angiosperm trees
Q: What is the minimum age for a horse to race in the Melbourne Cup? A: 3
Q: Which fictional character was created by Robert E Howard? A: Conan the Barbarian
Q: "Who created the character of Doctor Finlay in the British TV series (1962-1971) ""Dr Finlay's Casebook""?" A: A J Cronin
Q: "Who performed ""I Will Always Love You"", the song played at the end of the film ""The Bodyguard""?" A: Whitney Houston
Q: "Who wrote an autobiography called ""Boy Wonder: My Life in Tights""?" A: Burt Ward
Q: Dante, Boccaccio, Petrarch and Giotto were based in what city in the first half of the 14th century? A: Florence
Q: In which country was the Battle of Vinegar Hill fought in 1798? A: Ireland
Q: What is the interest of graphologists? A: Handwriting
Q: In popular tales what bowler famously caught the eye of Elizabeth I of England when the Spanish Armada was sighted off the British coast? A: Sir Francis Drake
Q: The city of Irkutsk, Russia, lies at the southern tip of which body of water? A: Lake Baikal
Q: Argentina encouraged a massive wave of immigration from Europe starting in 1857; between then and 1940 people from which country formed the bulk of the influx? A: Italy
Q: Pointillism is found in what field? A: Painting
Q: Considered by many to be the saltiest lake in the world, Don Juan Pond is found where? A: Victoria Land, Antarctica
Q: "Which actress began her professional film career aged six in ""Bright Eyes"" in 1934?" A: Shirley Temple
Q: The egg-based painting medium is known as what? A: Tempera
Q: The Visigoth army led by Alaric famously sacked what city in 410 CE? A: Rome
Q: What is the main product of photosynthesis in plants? A: Oxygen
Q: "Who composed ""Air on the G String""?" A: Johann Sebastian Bach
Q: According to NASA where do the majority of meteorites found on Earth originate from? A: Asteroids
Q: How is the shoe held on a racehorse's foot? A: Nails
Q: Where is the Castillo de los Tres Reyes Magos del Morro designed by Italian engineer Juan Bautista Antonelli, and built in 1589? A: The entrance to Havana bay in Havana, Cuba
Q: Who founded the Prince's Trust in 1976 to give special help to Britain's youth, especially those who are unemployed? A: Prince Charles
Q: "Which pop group, initially a studio only band for Tony Burrows and songwriter/record producers Tony Macaulay and Barry Mason, are best known for their 1970 record, ""Love Grows (Where My Rosemary Goes)""?" A: Edison Lighthouse
Q: "What book includes the characters Dill, ""Boo"" Radley, Scout Finch, her older brother Jem and their widowed father Atticus?" A: To Kill a Mockingbird
Q: "Who wrote ""The Sheep Pig"", that was made into the film ""Babe""?" A: Dick King-Smith
Q: "The first English prince to bear the title ""Prince of Wales"" eventually became which King?" A: Edward II
Q: In 1962, retired American racing driver Carroll Shelby got a licence to import a British sports car made by AC Motors of England and installed an American Ford engine rather than its original Bristol engine. He introduced the car to the American public as what model of car? A: Cobra
Q: United Artists, formed in 1919 as a reaction from commercial film companies of the time, was an alliance between actors Mary Pickford, Charlie Chaplin, and Douglas Fairbanks and who else? A: Director D.W.Griffith
Q: Fairy rock chimneys are a feature of Colorado and the Badlands in North America, the south of France, Taiwan, and Serbia and also, with houses carved from the formations, where? A: Cappadocia, Turkey
Q: Guru Nanak established what in India in the late 15th and early 16th centuries? A: The Sikh religion
Q: According to Greek legend, who was the muse of history? A: Clio
Q: Neil Tennant and Chris Lowe were better known as what when they hit #1 in 1984 in the UK, Canada and the USA? A: Pet Shop Boys
Q: Barabas is the central character in what 16th century play? A: The Jew of Malta
Q: Who is the most recent actor, up to 2015, to play the part of James Bond in films? A: Daniel Craig
Q: What is the title of Mike Leigh's 2014 film, featuring Timothy Spall in the title role in a biopic of a celebrated British painter? A: Mr Turner
Q: An oil used in cosmetics is produced in the seed of which shrub? A: Jojoba
Q: How many leaders are recognised in 2014 as absolute monarchs? A: 7
Q: "Who had hit records with ""Tragedy"" and ""You Win Again""?" A: The Bee Gees
Q: The Columbia Pictures logo in 1924 was a female figure, as now, but with a shield in her left hand and what in her right hand? A: Stick of wheat
Q: Who was vice president to George H W Bush? A: Dan Quayle
Q: The team from which country won the 2014 ICU World Cheerleading Championship? A: New Zealand
Q: Who was IBF Light Welterweight Champion from 4 March 1987 until he retired in December 1987, and was accused of being the masked gunman who shot Frank Warren, his former manager, twice in the chest in November 1989 outside the Broadway Theatre, Barking, England? A: Terry Marsh
Q: Fanta Four are one of what country's top hip hop bands? A: Germany
Q: What was the first name of the 19th century Russian composer Mussorgsky? A: Modest
Q: "On whose book did Walt Disney base his 1940 feature film ""Pinocchio""?" A: Carlo Collodi
Q: Which actor and musician, born in 1935, won a scholarship to study organ at Magdalen College, Oxford? A: Dudley Moore
Q: Which British politician won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1953? A: Winston Churchill
Q: What is the name of the cat that appeared in Warner Brothers cartoons? A: Sylvester
Q: "In ""Speed The Plough"" by Thomas Morton (1798) which character never appeared, but became a symbol of public prudery and conventional morality?" A: Mrs Grundy
Q: What colour is closest to picallili? A: Yellow
Q: "Where is the ""Caprivi Strip""?" A: Namibia
Q: Who was King of England from 1307 until he was deposed by his wife Isabella in 1327 and made to abdicate in favour of his son? A: Edward II
Q: Which comic character first appeared in Amazing Fantasy #15 in August 1962? A: Spiderman
Q: What strait separates the South Island of New Zealand from the more southerly Stewart Island? A: Foveaux Strait
Q: The House of Bourbon, a European royal house one of whose monarchs was famously guillotined in France in 1792, has descendants currently on the throne of which country or countries? A: Spain and Luxembourg
Q: "Which 19th century American author went to sea aged 17 in a whaler, deserted twice, was captured by cannibals and joined a man of war before writing novels such as ""White Jacket"" and ""Billy Budd""?" A: Herman Melville
Q: "Which American novelist wrote over 30 books, including ""The Pathfinder"", ""The Deerslayer"" and ""The Last of the Mohicans""?" A: James Fenimore Cooper
Q: Who investigated Bill Clinton's involvement in the Whitewater Land Transactions and his role in the Monica Lewinsky affair? A: Kenneth Starr
Q: What police drama TV programme starring William Shatner in the title role as the 15-year veteran police sergeant was first aired in the USA from March 1982 to May 1985? A: TJ Hooker
Q: Who won the 1975 Wimbledon men's singles title? A: Arthur Ashe
Q: Which popular song from 1972 told the story of the aftermath of an incident at a concert by Frank Zappa and the Mothers of Invention when someone fired a flare gun? A: Smoke on the Water
Q: "The Walt Disney animated 1949 feature ""The Adventures of Ichabod and Mr. Toad"" is based on ""The Wind in the Willows"" by Kenneth Grahame and which other work?" A: """The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"" by Washington Irving"
Q: The highlights of which British General's career include the Battle of Dettingen and the Battle of Lauffeld during the War of Austrian Succession, the Battle of Falkirk and the Battle of Culloden during the Jacobite uprising, and the Battle of the Plains of Abraham at Quebec during the Seven Years War? A: James Wolfe
Q: The night of 9 March 1945 saw, according to historians, the most devastating World War II bombing raid on what city? A: Tokyo, Japan
Q: The 12th century Welsh cleric Geoffrey of Monmouth is known for his writings on what? A: History
Q: Since the building Taipei 101 topped 500m tall at the end of 2003, how many buildings have now, in 2015, topped 600m? A: 3
Q: "Who played Johnny Fontane in the film ""The Godfather"" and was previously known as a singer of hits such as ""Here In My Heart"", ""Spanish Eyes"", ""Can't Help Falling in Love"" and ""Volare""?" A: Al Martino
Q: "Who hit the top spot in 2002 with ""U Got it Bad""?" A: Usher
Q: Charity and Mercy Pecksniff appear in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: Martin Chuzzlewit
Q: "Who wrote ""Banished Misfortune"", ""Fighting With Shadows"" and ""A Goat's Song""?" A: Dermot Healy
Q: Who is the present wife of golfer Greg Norman? A: Interior decorator Kirsten Kutner
Q: "Who was nicknamed ""The Sweater Girl"" after she appeared in the 1937 film ""They Won't Forget""?" A: Lana Turner
Q: Zeami, also called Kanze Motokiyo, (1363 - 1443) is considered the greatest playwright and theorist of which type of Japanese theatre in its current form? A: Noh
Q: "A French/American/British coproduced film focussing on German and Italians in one of the Greek islands in 1943, based on the novel by Louis de Bernires, was ""Captain Corelli's ...""?" A: Mandolin
Q: Belgian Thierry Boutsen, winner of the 1989 Canadian Grand Prix and the 1990 Hungarian Grand Prix, drove for the Formula One teams of Benetton, Williams-Renault, Ligier, Jordan-Hart and what other? A: Arrows
Q: What communist military junta came to power in Ethiopia following the ousting of Haile Selassie I on 12 September 1974 and although officially coming to an end on 22 February 1987, was not formally abolished until September? A: Derg
Q: "Who directed the films ""Clerks"", ""Mallrats"" and ""Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back ""?" A: Kevin Smith
Q: Where was Kylie Minogue born? A: Australia
Q: In which 1973 thriller film directed by Nicolas Roeg was there an explicit sex scene between Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie? A: Don't Look Now
Q: Between 1985 and 1991 a number of demonstrations and protests led to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania variously taking back their independence from the USSR and (later) Russia; what overall name has characterised the revolution? A: Singing Revolution
Q: Who, as president of Argentina, ordered the invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982? A: General Leopoldo Galtieri
Q: Which Spanish author served as a soldier at Lepanto (where he lost the use of his left hand), was captured by pirates in 1575 and imprisoned in Algiers until 1580, and was then employed in government work in Madrid? A: Miguel Cervantes
Q: What was the title of Martin Scorsese's 2008 documentary about the Rolling Stones? A: Shine a Light
Q: Who was born in 1812 near Porstmouth, spent his childhood in Chatham and London, married Catherine Hogarth in 1836, separated from her in 1858, had much of his work published serially in journals, and died in 1870? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Gothic, romanesque, and rococo are terms found in what? A: Architecture
Q: Where was the first Women's World Cup, at that time called Women's World Championship, held? A: China
Q: "Who is the director for ""Star Wars Episode VII: The Force Awakens""?" A: J.J.Abrams
Q: Jessye Norman, Jos Carreras and Giuseppe Verdi are associated with what style of music? A: Opera
Q: Which two Gibb brothers in the Bee Gees were twins? A: Robin and Maurice
Q: Which team came third in the 2002 men's basketball world championships in Indianapolis? A: Germany
Q: What date in the western Gregorian Calendar is currently the date for the Russian Orthodox Church Christian New Year? A: 14 January
Q: Escamillo, a bullfighter, is a character in which opera? A: Carmen
Q: What family name is next in the series Ivanievi, Hewitt, Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, and Murray? A: Djokovic
Q: The version of Magna Carta signed by King John of England at Runnymede was annulled shortly afterwards by Pope Innocent III; who issued the version which then survived to become the basis of much of modern Western law? A: Henry III
Q: "Which Russian composer wrote the ballets ""The Firebird"", ""Petrouchka"" and ""the Rite of Spring""?" A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: "What is the name of the garden created in the 1930s by Vita Sackville-West and her husband Harold Nicolson that is designed as a series of ""rooms"", each with a different character of colour and/or theme, divided by high clipped hedges and pink brick walls?" A: Sissinghurst
Q: An organisation formed in 1890 to promote cooperation across the countries of Latin America and the U.S was established under what name? A: International Union of American Republics
Q: France's largest international airport and one of the world principal aviation centres, also known as Roissy, is usually known by the name of what historical figure? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: The famous armless statue of Venus, or Aphrodite, was first discovered in CE times (in 1820 CE) in what ancient city ruins? A: Milos
Q: Paul Galdone illustrated a series of children's books written by Eve Titus about a mouse called what? A: Anatole
Q: "Who wrote under the pseudonym of ""Elia"" and, with his sister Mary, wrote ""Tales From Shakespeare""?" A: Charles Lamb
Q: "Wackford Squeers, headmaster of ""Dotheboys Hall"", appears in which book by Charles Dickens?" A: Nicholas Nickleby
Q: What word is applied to the cutting down of trees in, e.g., the Amazon basin? A: Deforestation
Q: Kelly Slater and Layne Beachley are multi world champions in which sport? A: Surfing
Q: Before it was moved to the purpose-built city of Brasilia, what city was Brazil's capital? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: Twitch.tv, where people can among other things watch gamers playing online, was generated by what other site? A: Justin.tv
Q: What is the name for the phenomenon that occurs, e.g., in magnetic and ferromagnetic materials and in the elastic, electric, and magnetic behaviour of materials, in which a lag occurs between the application or the removal of a force or field and its subsequent effect? A: Hysteresis
Q: "How does history better know Ioseb Jughashvili, who changed his surname to mean ""steel""?" A: Joseph Stalin
Q: The Meuse River rises in France and flows through which other country or countries? A: Belgium and the Netherlands
Q: What is the name for the ceremonial meal which breaks the fast each evening in Ramadan? A: Iftaar
Q: What narrows do you sail through to reach Scotia Sea? A: Drake Passage
Q: The religious movement known as the Doukhobors was oppressed and circumscribed in Russia where it first developed; when its members were eventually allowed to leave what country welcomed them? A: Canada
Q: Gamma-coniceine and coniine are the two principles which contribute most to the poisonous effect of what plant? A: Hemlock
Q: "The TV series ""Peaky Blinders"", aired first in 2013, is based on late 19th and early 20th century urban youth gangs in what city?" A: Birmingham, UK
Q: Carl Stotz began an organisation in Williamsport, Pennsylvania in 1939 to promote what sport to youth? A: Baseball
Q: As part of a long career on stage, writing songs (recorded by Herman's Hermits, Adam Faith, Billy Fury) and musicals, and in TV and film working with Franco Zeffirelli, Bob Hoskins and Patrick Stewart, the actor Trevor Peacock stars in what UK TV series? A: Vicar of Dibley
Q: Violet Carson made her last appearance as Ena Sharples in 1980 in which British TV series? A: Coronation Street
Q: "Who played with the ""Runaways"" and the ""Blackhearts""?" A: Joan Jett
Q: Some parts of the Amazon rainforest are being devastated by activities, including deposits of mercury, as part of what? A: Gold mining
Q: "Which UNESCO World Heritage Site in India covers the greatest land area, and is considered one of the ""hottest hotspots"" of biological diversity ?" A: The Western Ghats
Q: Prince William left St Andrews University in 2005 with a degree in what subject? A: Geography
Q: "T S Eliot's ""Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats"" (1939) formed the basis for which long-running musical show?" A: Cats
Q: Ambergris, once commonly used as a fixative in perfumery, is produced in the digestive system of what? A: Sperm whale
Q: Telly Savalas played Theo Kojak in a TV series that first aired from 1973 to 1978. What confectionery is associated with the character? A: Lollipop
Q: "In what country was Johnny Depp, at least until May 2015, filming the 5th chapter in the ""Pirates of the Caribbean"" series?" A: Australia
Q: What is Britain's richest horse race in 2015? A: Epsom Derby
Q: What Is the title of Somerset Maugham's book that is based on the life of Paul Gauguin? A: The Moon and Sixpence
Q: "Who wrote ""J'accuse"", an open letter to Flix Faur, President of France, accusing the government of anti-Semitism and the unlawful jailing of Alfred Dreyfus (a French officer sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage) that was published on 13 January 1898, in the newspaper ""L'Aurore""?" A: mile Zola
Q: What word is used to describe an aircraft moving along an airport runway? A: Taxi
Q: What professional sport is Arthur Ashe known in? A: Tennis
Q: The mathematician, al-Khwarizmi, in the royal court of Baghdad in the 9th century CE gave his name to what procedure or formula for solving a problem? A: Algorithm
Q: "What was the name of the group of friends that Ken Kesey, the author of ""One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"", took on a trip from California to New York in a school bus nicknamed ""Furthur""?" A: The Merry Pranksters
Q: Well known in the 1960s, what was the profession of Holland-Dozier-Holland? A: Songwriters
Q: Pierre de Coubertin who founded the modern Olympic Games thought competing in art was an essential part of the movement; medals in various arts were awarded from 1912 until when? A: 1948
Q: "Who was the other half of the Bouquet household, played by actor Clive Swift, in the UK TV comedy series ""Keeping Up Appearances""?" A: Richard
Q: The Galapagos Islands are subject to continuing volcanic activity, and are situated where in relation to tectonic plates? A: At the Galapagos Triple Junction
Q: Leo Zulueta is a notable artist in what field? A: Tattoo art
Q: Architect George Clarke fronts which TV series? A: The Restoration Man
Q: What are the narrows called between Tierra del Fuego and the Antarctic? A: Drake Passage
Q: "Which is the preposition in the tongue twister ""She sells sea shells by the sea shore""?" A: By
Q: "Who wrote ""The Commitments"", ""The Snapper"" and ""The Van""?" A: Roddy Doyle
Q: "Who created the English schoolboy hero ""Jennings""?" A: Anthony Buckeridge
Q: Where is the volcanic Tibesti mountain range? A: Sahara
Q: What is the name of the mascot for the cereal Cocoa Puffs? A: Sonny
Q: What is the variety of coffee bean grown almost exclusively world-wide? A: Coffea arabica
Q: "The character ""Eliza Doolittle"" in ""My Fair Lady"" was originally created by whom?" A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Who lived with his father (Howard), his mother (Marion), and his sister Joanie and had friends called Potsie Weber, Ralph Malph and Arthur Fonzarelli? A: Richie Cunningham
Q: Which comic character first appeared in Action Comics #1 in June 1938? A: Superman
Q: With which sport are Rodney Eyles, Peter Nicol, Susan Devoy and Cassie Campion associated? A: Squash
Q: Where is the town of Asbestos? A: Canada
Q: Which Hollywood star married baseball hero Joe DiMaggio? A: Marilyn Munroe
Q: George H. W. Bush was vice president to whom? A: Reagan
Q: What about an 11 stringed lute resonates with a type of mushroom? A: Chanterelle
Q: Who was Vice President to US President Ronald Reagan during his terms from 1981 to 1989? A: George H W Bush
Q: A 1982 film directed by Ingmar Bergman, initially prepared for television as a 4 part serial, was what? A: Fanny and Alexander
Q: Niccol Machiavelli, Thomas Carlyle, and Thomas Macaulay share a scholarly interest in what? A: History
Q: Glacier-formed fjords can be found on the coasts of Norway, Iceland, Greenland, Alaska, north east Siberia, the Kerguelen Islands, New Zealand, British Columbia, Nunavut, Washington and where else? A: Chile
Q: The liqueur Grand Marnier contains the distilled essence of what fruit? A: Bitter orange
Q: Denmark, New Zealand, Finland, Sweden, Norway, and what other country feature in this order as the least corrupt countries in Transparency International's 2014 Corruptions Index? A: Switzerland
Q: In 1906 which country became the second in the world since the 18th century to grant full suffrage to all adult citizens, and the first country in the world to grant all women full political rights? A: Finland
Q: What was the sporting fixture called Baku 2015? A: The inaugural European Games
Q: The organising committee of the 1960 Winter Olympic games decided to exclude which sport due to the expense of building a track? A: Bobsleigh
Q: What was the name of the otter, the subject of a novel by Henry Williamson that was first published in 1927? A: Tarka
Q: Who was killed when a helicopter crashed in dense fog on 27 August 1990 in East Troy, Wisconsin? A: Stevie Ray Vaughan
Q: "The original terms of reference of the International Whaling Commission were to ""provide for the proper conservation of whale stocks and thus make possible the orderly development of the whaling industry""; what did the Commission do in 1982?" A: Adopted a moratorium on commercial whaling
Q: Its capital is Monrovia, its first settlements were founded in 1822 on land bought from local tribal leaders, it was initially a protectorate of the USA but independent from 1847; what country is it? A: The Republic of Liberia
Q: What was the first feature film under its new persona by the studio formed from The Graphics Group of Lucasfilm? A: Toy Story
Q: "Which king of England was called ""the wisest fool in Christendom""?" A: James I
Q: "Who, called the ""King of Jazz"", was the leader of the most popular dance bands in the United States during the 1920s, commissioned and debuted George Gershwin's jazz-influenced ""Rhapsody In Blue"" in 1924?" A: Paul Whiteman
Q: In 2007, the largest known specimen of what, weighing 495 kg (1,091 lb) and measuring 4.2 m (14 ft) in length, was caught in the Ross Sea? A: Colossal Squid
Q: Herodotus, Josephus, Michael King, Simon Schama and Edward Gibbon share what common focus? A: History
Q: Which way is it likely that the head of the successor of Queen Elizabeth II will face on a British coin? A: Left
Q: "Who wrote ""Ann Veronica"", a novel first published in 1909 that deals with contemporary political issues of the time, concentrating specifically on feminist issues?" A: H G Wells
Q: Papagena is a character in which opera? A: The Magic Flute
Q: The Olympic Hymn at the opening ceremony at the 1992 Summer Olympics was sung in what language or languages? A: Spanish and Catalan
Q: Which is the smallest sovereign country in South America? A: Suriname
Q: Which scandal involving an oil well on public land occurred during the presidency of Warren Harding? A: The tea pot dome scandal
Q: What island group may be described as a triangle with its corners at Hawaii, New Zealand and Easter Island, including the island groups Samoa, Tonga, the Cook Islands, Tuvalu, Tokelau, and Niue? A: Polynesia
Q: "The first editions of Lewis Carroll's ""Alice ..."" books were given a special flavour by illustrations by which 19th century graphic humourist and political cartoonist?" A: Sir John Tenniel
Q: Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, served in what service in World War II? A: Navy
Q: The Everglades are a subtropical wetland in which U.S. state? A: Florida
Q: Oculus Story Studio, formed employing a handful of Pixar Animation Studios veterans released their first interactive Virtual Reality short at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival. What was it? A: Lost
Q: "Who wrote ""Quentins"", ""Nights of Rain and Stars"", ""Whitethorn Woods"" and ""Heart and Soul""?" A: Maeve Binchy
Q: """Immersive journalism"", of the kind presented by Nonny de la Peas ""Hunger in Los Angeles"" in 2012 uses what technique?" A: Virtual reality
Q: Where would the game of ringette be played? A: On ice
Q: What type of engine did Felix Wankel invent? A: Rotary
Q: "The music soundscape of three out of the four ""Dirty Harry"" films is associated with what Argentine pianist, composer, arranger and conductor?" A: Lalo Schifrin
Q: "The two UK TV series ""The Sweeney"" (1975-78) and ""Inspector Morse"" (1987-2000) share which actor?" A: John Thaw
Q: "Which actor is a link between the outstanding psychological UK crime series, ""Cracker"", and the eight Harry Potter films?" A: Robbie Coltrane
Q: "The film ""O21"" (2014) is made under the banner of what country?" A: Pakistan
Q: Mostar Bridge, completed in 1566, destroyed in 1993 and rebuilt in 2004, stands in which country? A: Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Q: When Gerald Ford was president of the USA, who was his vice president? A: Nelson A Rockefeller
Q: When Michael Clarke resigned his captaincy of the Australian team in the course of a 2015 competition between Australia and the UK, to take effect when the series was finished, what sport were the teams competing in? A: Cricket
Q: "Which group from New York City released an eponymous album in 1973 with the personnel of David Johansen, Sylvain Sylvain, Arthur ""Killer"" Kane, Jerry Nolan and Johnny Thunders?" A: The New York Dolls
Q: Anaemia is better described by which term? A: Hypochromic
Q: "What was the name of Han Solo's spacecraft in the first ""Star Wars"" film to be released?" A: Millenium Falcon
Q: In what TV series was the family butler called Lurch? A: The Addams Family
Q: """Pollywog"" is another name for what?" A: Tadpole
Q: The caffeine-rich infused drink, mate, is prepared from a species of South American holly called what? A: Yerba
Q: Where was Chiang Kai-Shek leader until 1949? A: China
Q: "In WCF, an international body formed in 1986 which is associated among other things with the MacRobertson Shield, what does the ""C"" stand?" A: Croquet
Q: Which group, named after its keyboardist, had its first hit record when the members included Mike Hugg, Mike Vickers, Tom McGuinness and Paul Jones? A: Manfred Mann
Q: "Who resigned his army commission in 1858 to write music, such as the opera ""Boris Godunov"" and ""Pictures at an Exhibition""?" A: Modest Mussorgsky
Q: What sport do players in the Super League compete in? A: Rugby league
Q: What did the Festival International du Film become in 2002? A: Festival de Cannes
Q: Cyrus the Great of Persia, for his religious tolerance, power and skill the only non-Jew to be acclaimed as the Messiah, founded the Achaemenid Empire in the 6th century BCE which stretched how far? A: Asia Minor in the west to the northwestern areas of India in the east
Q: What is missing in the sequence: French Guiana, the Republic of Suriname, and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela? A: The Co-operative Republic of Guyana
Q: In 2015 pop artist Taylor Swift won a disagreement over pay with what organisation? A: Apple
Q: The mediaeval wind instrument called a shawm typically had a cover over its keys called what? A: Fontanelle
Q: "The character ""Mr. T"" is from which US TV series?" A: The A Team
Q: What was the nickname of the defending champion in the 2014 World Snooker Championship? A: The Rocket
Q: What international humanitarian institution was founded in Switzerland in 1863? A: Red Cross
Q: He is a playwright, screenwriter, film director and essayist with a Pulitzer Prize (1984) and Tony and Oscar award nominations; he is married to singer-songwriter Rebecca Pidgeon; what is his name? A: David Mamet
Q: The Armagnac region of France lies between the Adour and Garonne rivers and near which other feature? A: The Pyrenees
Q: In 1892, who became the first heavyweight boxing champion to fight under the Marquess of Queensberry rules? A: Jim Corbett
Q: What is the official language of the principality of Andorra? A: Catalan
Q: "It is generally accepted that the first true ""Beat"" novel was ""Go"" by John Clennon (1952) followed by ""Howl"" by Allen Ginsberg (1956). The Beat culture entered its heyday with the publication of what novel by Jack Kerouac?" A: On the Road
Q: On 2 February 2015 who became the youngest person to be ranked No 1 in professional golf? A: Lydia Ko
Q: "Who coined the expressions 'a curate's egg' and 'bedside manner', and wrote three novels, including ""Peter Ibbetson"" (adapted to a 1935 film starring Gary Cooper and an opera), and another which gave its name to the trilby, a type of hat?" A: George du Maurier
Q: Which country, after 500 years of Ottoman domination, became independent in 1912, adopted a republican form of government in 1920, became a kingdom in 1928, came under Italian control in 1939, became a Communist state after World War II, and is now a parliamentary democracy established under a constitution renewed in 1998? A: Albania
Q: Paribas, formed in 1872 from two companies respectively in Paris and Amsterdam, operated in what field? A: Finance
Q: Michael Caine appeared as which character in 5 films? A: Harry Palmer
Q: "Who co-starred with Kevin Costner in ""Bodyguard"" and released a song from the movie, ""I Will Always Love You"", which became a hit?" A: Whitney Houston
Q: """Falling in love does not mean you love to fall"" is an example of chiasmus and what other figure of speech?" A: Metaphor
Q: Which musical with book and lyrics by James Rado and Gerome Ragni and music by Galt MacDermot opened in October 1967 at Joseph Papp's Public Theater? A: Hair
Q: Which club drug, particularly popular, and fatal, in some areas, was originally developed as an anaesthetic and painkiller and used mainly by veterinary surgeons? A: Ketamine
Q: In mediaeval years what would the regular occupants of a charterhouse be? A: Monks
Q: Who was World Superbike Champion in 1994, 1995, 1998 and 1999? A: Carl Fogarty
Q: Who was elected Governor of Texas in 1994? A: George W Bush
Q: What nut is used in making marzipan, nougat, and amaretti? A: Almond
Q: "Who wrote and directed the Bafta Award winning short film ""Franz Kafka's It's a Wonderful Life"" (1993)?" A: Peter Capaldi
Q: Who were the parents of Ricky Nelson? A: Ozzie and Harriet
Q: "The series ""Marvel's Daredevil"" was created as what?" A: Web television
Q: One of the rarest reptiles, a species of crocodile, is found in the wild exclusively where? A: The Orinoco River
Q: "In 1956 who wrote and introduced the song, ranked by the magazine Rolling Stone as #97 on their list of the 500 greatest songs of all time, ""Roll Over, Beethoven""?" A: Chuck Berry
Q: "In George Orwell's book ""Animal Farm"", ""Boxer"" was what kind of animal?" A: Horse
Q: "Whose last compositions, composed in 1948 when the composer was 84, were called ""Four Last Songs""?" A: Richard Strauss
Q: "Who had the lead roles in the TV series ""Callan"" and ""The Equaliser""?" A: Edward Woodward
Q: "On 1 May 1707, who became the first sovereign of the ""Kingdom of Great Britain""?" A: Queen Anne
Q: Torvill and Dean are famous in which winter activity? A: Figure skating
Q: Which Italian poet and librettist was known under the name of Metastasio? A: Pietro Antonio Domenico Trapassi
Q: What organisation was initially behind the first Geneva Convention signed in 1864? A: International Committee for Relief to the Wounded
Q: What is the name of 100 novellas by Giovanni Boccaccio, a medieval allegorical work known for its bawdy tales of love from the erotic to the tragic, which were probably written in the 1350s? A: The Decameron
Q: Dean Martin starred in 4 films as which fictional US government counter-agent, created by Donald Hamilton? A: Matt Helm
Q: "A 1951 film produced and directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring Farley Granger, Ruth Roman, Robert Walker, Leo G. Carroll, Kasey Rogers and Patricia Hitchcock was called ""Strangers on a ... what""?" A: Train
Q: "What was the subtitle of the Beatles song ""Norwegian Wood""?" A: This bird has flown
Q: The Terracotta Army marched underground frozen in time from the burial of an emperor in the third century BCE until 1974 CE, where? A: China
Q: What term is not used to describe the fruit of the coffee tree? A: Beans
Q: What disco hit of 1975 by Donna Summer was banned by the BBC because of the background noises? A: Love to Love You, Baby
Q: Ouzo is flavoured with what? A: Aniseed
Q: Cambodia, which over the course of 1841 to 1953 was under the joint suzerainty of Thailand and Vietnam then was a monarchy under the protection of France which included an occupation by Japan, was steered to independence in 1953 by whom? A: King Norodom Sihanouk
Q: What nationality is the tennis player Marcos Baghdatis? A: Cypriot
Q: Over its thousands of islands Indonesia officially recognises the religions of Christianity (Protestantism and Catholicism), Confucianism, Islam, Hinduism and what other? A: Buddhism
Q: When was the last death penalty carried out, by guillotine, in France? A: September 1977
Q: Which Swiss national is a leading tennis player? A: Roger Federer
Q: Where is a fore-topgallant found? A: On a ship
Q: Which place, used by Russians in 1814 to bombard Paris, became a popular entertainment area in the 19th and 20th centuries, outside the city limits, free of Paris taxes (and where the local nuns made wine)? A: Montmartre
Q: "How many ""tines"" does a tuning fork usually have?" A: Two
Q: "The American TV series ""The Big Bang Theory"" is an example of what genre?" A: Comedy
Q: Who is an Australian convicted murderer, currently serving 35 life sentences for murdering 35 people and injuring 21 others in the Port Arthur massacre, a shooting spree in Tasmania in 1996? A: Martin John Bryant
Q: Who are Alvin, Simon, Theodore, and Dave? A: The Chipmunks
Q: Up until 1869 where was the city known as Edo? A: Japan
Q: The Royal Residence of George III of England and before him his father was at Kew Gardens, falling into disrepair in the early 19th century, and was known as what? A: The White House
Q: In 1999, King Abdullah II and Queen Rania became the rulers of which country? A: Jordan
Q: """Vichysoisse"" is a type of what?" A: Soup
Q: What is a violet variety of quartz used in jewellery, that the ancient Greeks and Romans believed protected its owner from drunkenness? A: Amethyst
Q: What 1976-9 UK TV series, written by David Nobbs, frequently featured brief footage of a hippopotamus? A: The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin
Q: The island of Runion, Mauritius, is closest to which other country to its west? A: Madagascar
Q: Which melodramatic opera depicting graphic scenes of torture, murder and suicide, set in Rome in June 1800 when the Kingdom of Naples's control of Rome was threatened by Napoleon's invasion of Italy, contains some of Puccini's best-known lyrical arias? A: Tosca
Q: "A 2005 remix of the song ""Axel F"", music originally released in 1984 as the theme for American TV series ""Beverley Hills Cops"", became known as what?" A: The Crazy Frog song
Q: The Tasman Sea flows between which two countries? A: Australia and New Zealand
Q: Where was BBC presenter and journalist Ade Adepitan born? A: Lagos, Nigeria
Q: After the game of Australian Football was formulated in 1857 which was the first club (formed the following year)? A: Melbourne Football Club
Q: Who was the fourth king of the Kingdom of Judah who succeeded his father Asa, ruling for twenty-five years until 849 BC, until his son Jehoram succeeded him? A: Jehoshaphat
Q: What is the title of a 2004 book co-written by Paris Hilton and Merle Ginsberg? A: Confessions of an Heiress
Q: The passport of what lawyer, sportsman, singer, actor and civil rights activist was withdrawn by the US State Department in 1950 because of his alleged affiliation with the Communist Party? A: Paul Robeson
Q: Which Dickens character was visited by the ghost of Bob Marley? A: Scrooge
Q: The Man Booker prize is awarded for what? A: Literature
Q: The Rance Barrage is the first example of what? A: Tidal power station
Q: """Why don't you come up sometime and see me"" was a famous line by Mae West in the 1933 film ""She Done Him Wrong"". Which actor did she say it to?" A: Cary Grant
Q: In 2005 Karina Hollekim performed what, the first woman to do so? A: A ski-BASE
Q: Which American swing and jazz guitarist's single string technique combined with amplification, while with Benny Goodman's bands between 1939 and 1941, helped bring the guitar out of the rhythm section and into the forefront as a solo instrument? A: Charlie Christian
Q: Irish-born Francis Bacon (1909-1992) is known in what field? A: Painting
Q: Modern versions of which appliance (commonplace by the 1970s in domestic residences in the USA) are descended from the 1886 invention of Josephine Cochrane which she unveiled at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair? A: Dishwasher
Q: Agatha Christie is famous for writing what type of book? A: Detective fiction
Q: Which 1964 film, written by Terry Southern and Stanley Kubrik and directed by him, starred Peter Sellers (in three roles), George C Scott, Keenan Wynn and Slim Pickens? A: Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love The Bomb
Q: Demi Moore shaved her head for the title role in which 1997 film? A: GI Jane
Q: Where was the starting point for the 2015 Tour de France? A: Utrecht, Netherlands
Q: "The royal wedding between Crown Princess Victoria and Daniel Westling on 19 June 2010, described as ""Europe's biggest royal wedding since the Prince of Wales married Lady Diana Spencer"", took place in which country?" A: Sweden
Q: "What is the title of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Glenn Slater's sequel to ""The Phantom of the Opera""?" A: Love Never Dies
Q: Which creature is best qualified to serve as a model for the mythical unicorn, having its the main distinguishing characteristic? A: Rhinoceros
Q: Which play, developed in the Vineyard Arts Project at Martha's Vineyard in the USA and premiering on Broadway in 2014, was based on the autobiography of Broadway writer and director Moss Hart? A: Act One
Q: "In England, the ""dissolution of the monasteries"" occurred under the reign of which king?" A: Henry VIII
Q: Which 1967 film, directed by Stuart Rosenberg starring Paul Newman and George Kennedy, was about the fate of a man sent to prison for vandalising parking meters? A: Cool Hand Luke
Q: "Who wrote ""The Shape Of Things To Come""?" A: H G Wells
Q: "Who wrote ""Desperate Remedies"" (1871) and ""Under The Greenwood Tree"" (1872)?" A: Thomas Hardy
Q: First used in western medicine in the 17th century what was the drug developed from the bark of the cinchona tree used to treat? A: Malaria
Q: "On 29 May 1954, who sent a message to the aircraft carrier HMS Vengeance, saying ""Thank you for the original forgery""?" A: Queen Elizabeth II
Q: In what country is the white wine grape Pinot grigio, a clone of Pinot gris, traditionally grown? A: Italy
Q: What can be a term for food served with potatoes? A: Parmentier
Q: A road system running down the west coast of the Americas, apart from a short gap across the south part of Central America, from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, to Ushuaia, Argentina, is called what? A: The Pan-American Highway
Q: What is George W Bush's middle name? A: Walker
Q: Louis Comfort Tiffany was particularly well-known for his work in what? A: Stained glass
Q: What dish consists of chicken pan-fried in a skillet and covered tightly after the initial browning so that the chicken steams as well as frying, with milk or cream added to the pan juices to create a white cream gravy? A: Chicken Maryland
Q: Who is reputed to have survived over 55 assassination attempts, the most notable of which (the only time in modern history when a Head of State has personally exchanged fire with a potential assassin) was in 1931? A: King Zog of Albania
Q: According to the books by Edgar Rice Burroughs, who raised Tarzan after he was orphaned? A: Apes
Q: British artists William Hogarth, Joshua Reynolds, and Thomas Gainsborough were working in what century? A: 18th
Q: Nobel Prize winner Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin won the prize for, among others, determining the chemical structure of what, which she published in 1949? A: Penicillin
Q: U Thant (Myanmar), Kurt Waldheim (Austria) and Javier Perez de Cuellar (Peru) successively held the same office; what was the office? A: Secretary-General of the United Nations
Q: "Whose first book, published in 1920, was ""The Mysterious Affair at Styles""?" A: Agatha Christie
Q: King Idris I was deposed in 1969 as king of where? A: Libya
Q: Finding its spraint means what animal has been there? A: Otter
Q: Bannock, brioche, pita, focaccia and roti are varieties of what? A: Bread
Q: A cassowary is a type of what? A: Bird
Q: In the final Test match of his career, international cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan became the first bowler to take 800 Test wickets. What nation did he represent? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Which is a traditional topping for lasagne? A: Cheese
Q: "Who wrote ""A Room With A View"", ""Howard's End"" and ""A Passage To India""?" A: E M Forster
Q: Prominent UK philanthropist Dr Naim Dangoor CBE set up and heads which charitable foundation? A: The Exilarch's Foundation
Q: What Jewish celebration commemorates an event concerning children and lamb's blood? A: Passover
Q: Mike Leigh directed what 1999 film, starring Jim Broadbent and Timothy Spall, about a famous music theatre partnership? A: Topsy-Turvy
Q: Before Washington became President in 1789 of the newly independent United States of America there had been Presidents variously of the Continental Congress of the United Colonies (formed 1774), then the United States Congress under the Articles of Confederation; how many presidencies were there? A: 16
Q: Raymond Briggs, English graphic novelist, artist, illustrator and cartoonist, first found enduring popularity with what work? A: The Snowman
Q: How many rounds did it take for Lennox Lewis to beat Mike Tyson in 2002? A: 8
Q: Despite being named for the Ebola River in Congo the virus was first isolated some distance away; where? A: Yambuku
Q: What musical has the characters Christian, Satine, Harold Zidler, The Duke of Monroth, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, The Narcoleptic Argentinean, The Doctor, China Doll, Audrey, Nini Legs-in-the-Air and La Petite Princesse? A: Moulin Rouge!
Q: "Which Roman poet wrote ""The Aeneid"" and ""The Eclogues""?" A: Virgil
Q: What is an alcoholic apritif, a type of bitters, obtained from the infusion of bitter herbs, aromatic plants and fruit in alcohol and water? A: Campari
Q: "Which Italian opera singer, considered to be one of the finest tenors in the recorded history of music rose to international prominence after the death of Italian tenor Enrico Caruso in 1921, and was often called ""Caruso Secondo""?" A: Beniamino Gigli
Q: In India, Turkey, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, the Transcaucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East, Central Asia, Burma and Bangladesh, what is a tandoor (also known as a tonir and a tone) used for? A: Cooking
Q: Who was given a personalised iPod by Barack Obama when he visited in April 2009? A: Queen Elizabeth II
Q: The Kalandula Falls, one of the largest waterfalls by volume in Africa, are in which country? A: Angola
Q: Where would the phenomenon reported by locals as Naga Fireballs be found? A: Mekong River
Q: What instrument is played by blues artists Sonny Boy Williamson, Little Walter, Charlie Musselwhite and Junior Wells? A: Harmonica
Q: What was the musical work by Mike Oldfield released as an album, containing only one track on each side, in 1973? A: Tubular Bells
Q: In 2015 palaeontologists from Edinburgh and Beijing announced the discovery of the fossil of an almost complete feathered and winged, although almost certainly flightless, theropod which is an ancestor of what? A: Velociraptor
Q: "In Western films, what is a ""saloon""?" A: Bar
Q: "On 15 December 1940, whose remains (except for his heart, intestines and viscera) were transferred from Vienna to the dome of Les Invalides in Paris as a ""gift"" to France by Adolf Hitler?" A: Napoleon II
Q: What is the closest description of the interior of South Africa? A: Plateau
Q: "How did Shakespeare in his play ""Cymbeline"" end the line, ""Golden lads and girls all must as chimneysweepers come to...""?" A: Dust
Q: A small sandbar island emerged in the Bay of Bengal in the aftermath of the Bhola cyclone in 1970, but in 2010 it was discovered it had been completely submerged by rising water levels. Which 2 countries had claimed sovereignty? A: India and Bangladesh
Q: "Who is the lawyer in Charles Dickens's ""Great Expectations""?" A: Jaggers
Q: Which entertainment American cable TV network is owned by Time Warner Inc.? A: Adult Swim
Q: "Whose theme song was ""Thanks For The Memory""?" A: Bob Hope
Q: "Who wrote the 1998 novel ""About A Boy""?" A: Nick Hornby
Q: Its capital city is Chiinu, and it is surrounded by the Ukraine and Romania; which country is it? A: Moldova
Q: Who wrote the song to which Miley Cyrus famously twerked in 2013? A: J. Dash
Q: "Which US president was re-elected with the slogan ""Don't change horses in mid-stream""?" A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Which club won UEFA's inaugural European Champion Clubs' Cup in 1956? A: Real Madrid
Q: "The period known as ""The Time of Troubles"" 1598-1613 refers to which country?" A: Russia
Q: "Which classic poem contains the line ""Far from the madding crowd""?" A: Elegy in a Country Churchyard
Q: "In Raymond Chandler's comment in the book Farewell My Lovely ""I needed a drink, I needed a lot of life insurance, I needed a vacation, I needed a home in the country. What I had was ..."" what figure of speech was he using?" A: Anaphora
Q: In what sport would you use a niblick? A: Golf
Q: "Which Irish-born novelist wrote the satire ""Gulliver's Travels""?" A: Jonathan Swift
Q: Who founded the London Philharmonic Orchestra? A: Thomas Beecham
Q: Bennett Cerf, Dr. Seuss's publisher, wagered $50 that Seuss could not write a book using only fifty different words. Seuss won by writing which book? A: Green Eggs and Ham
Q: The liver of a goose or duck, when made into food, is called what? A: Foie gras
Q: "What is the setting for the musical ""Oliver!""?" A: London
Q: Who created the character of Horatio Hornblower? A: C S Forester
Q: "Who wrote ""Farewell To Arms"" (published 1929), ""For Whom The Bell Tolls"" (1940), and received a Pulitzer and Nobel Prize for Literature for ""The Old Man And The Sea"" (1952)?" A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: "Who wrote the music for the song ""Smile"", a hit for Nat King Cole in 1954 that was recorded by Michael Jackson for his 1995 double album ""HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I""?" A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: "Who wrote ""A Year in Provence""?" A: Peter Mayle
Q: Who made the longest Oscar acceptance speech, at five minutes and 30 seconds, when collecting her Oscar for Best Actress in 1942 for her role as Mrs. Miniver? A: Greer Garson
Q: What device did French inventor douard-Lon Scott de Martinville patent in 1857? A: Phonautograph
Q: Where are the sheer cliffs of the Drakensberg? A: Southern Africa
Q: "In 2014 at the age of 93 Phyllis Latour Doyle, ""Pippa"", received the Chevalier de l'Ordre National de la Legion d'Honneur, (the Legion of Honour, knight class) for activities in occupied France in World War II; where was she born, and where did she grow up?" A: South Africa
Q: Which book about a castaway was written by Daniel Defoe? A: Robinson Crusoe
Q: What date was the US Transcontinental Railroad completed? A: May 10, 1869
Q: What 2002 film, an adaptation of stage musical that explores the themes of 'celebrity' and 'scandal', starred Catherine Zeta-Jones, Rene Zellweger, and Richard Gere? A: Chicago
Q: "Who moved to New York City in 1977 where she worked as a waitress in Dunkin' Donuts, performed as a dancer for French disco artist Patrick Hernandez on a world tour, formed the band ""The Breakfast Club"" with Dan Gilroy, and the band ""Emmy"" with Stephen Bray, and has been described as ""a woman who pulled herself up by her bra straps?""" A: Madonna
Q: What is the name of a construction toy made of interlocking plastic blocks? A: Lego
Q: Where does the Republic of Djibouti have a coastline or coastlines? A: The Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden
Q: Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa won which major prize in 2010? A: Nobel Prize for Literature
Q: Mozart wrote an opera about what kind of flute? A: Magic
Q: Which city is in the Chao Phraya River delta? A: Bangkok, Thailand
Q: The Tiger Quoll, Dibbler and Phascogale are native to which country? A: Australia
Q: Who was offered the presidency of Israel in 1952? A: Albert Einstein
Q: What is likely to be found in the Pantanal? A: The giant river otter
Q: When was critical illness, or trauma, insurance first launched? A: 1983
Q: The uninhabited Malgas Island, or Bird Island, off the Western Cape of South Africa, is the largest breeding colony in the world of what? A: Cape gannets
Q: What is the name of the official list of books prohibited to be read by the Catholic Church? A: Index Librorum Prohibitorum
Q: "Which four-time Grammy Award-winning artist's hit singles included ""Fast Car"", ""Talkin' 'bout a Revolution"", ""Baby Can I Hold You"", ""Give Me One Reason"", ""The Promise"" and ""Telling Stories""?" A: Tracy Chapman
Q: "The musical ""The Music Man"" is set in what city?" A: River City
Q: Thom Yorke is the lead singer for which band? A: Radiohead
Q: "Who wrote ""A History of Richard III"" and ""Utopia""?" A: Sir Thomas More
Q: How would a redingote usually be treated? A: Worn
Q: Where did the Eureka Rebellion happen? A: Ballarat, Australia
Q: It is home to the Bayerische Staatsoper, Staatsorchester and Staatsballet, was burned down in 1823, rebuilt and re-opened 1825, bombed and destroyed 1943 and re rebuilt and re-opened 1963; what is it? A: National Theatre, Munich
Q: """Bad men live that they may eat and drink, whereas good men eat and drink that they may live"", attributed to Socrates 5th century BCE, is an example of what figure of speech?" A: Chiasmus
Q: What disease caused US president Franklin D Roosevelt to use a wheelchair? A: Polio
Q: How can the land to the west of the Gulf of California be described? A: Peninsula
Q: In 1968, who was the first African American woman to be elected to the US Congress? A: Shirley Chisholm
Q: What system was the spacecraft Rosetta launched on? A: Ariane
Q: Where would halophiles be found? A: Hypersaline lakes
Q: The coastal city of Chittagong is in which country? A: Bangladesh
Q: In 1995, what band was the first artist to receive as many as 4 BRIT (British Record Industry Trust) awards in the same year? A: Blur
Q: Which book attributed to Thomas Cranmer and published around 1549 is still in print? A: The Book of Common Prayer
Q: The inaugural day-night cricket test game played at the Oval, Adelaide, Australia, in November 2015 was played between Australia and which other country? A: New Zealand
Q: In the 1968 feature film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, of what country is Baron Bomburst the tyrant ruler? A: Vulgaria
Q: By what name was Shane Fenton better known as a performer in the 1970s and 1980s? A: Alvin Stardust
Q: By what name is Theodor Geisel better known? A: Dr Seuss
Q: In 1997 Bougainville gained autonomy within Papua New Guinea, after negotiations brokered by what country? A: New Zealand
Q: The highest peaks of the Atlas Mountains, the highest being 4,167 metres (13,671 ft), are in country? A: Morocco
Q: "Who launched a career with the book ""Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly""?" A: Anthony Bourdain
Q: 19th century English theatrical manager and producer Richard D'Oyly Carte was responsible for the building of which London theatre? A: Savoy
Q: The celebrated 18th century Englishman, Lancelot Brown, was better known by what name? A: Capability
Q: Where are China's largest natural gas reserves found? A: Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
Q: The name of the Doukhobor religious sect means what? A: Spirit wrestler
Q: "When did ""play"" become a current word in English for a mimic representation, or dramatic or theatrical presentation?" A: 14th century
Q: A cravat is worn on which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: The Tien Shan, or Tian Shan, mountains lie to the north of which? A: Taklimakan Desert
Q: From 2011 to 2019 who are the holders of the William Webb Ellis Cup? A: New Zealand
Q: "Which musical, based on characters created for single-panel cartoons in ""The New Yorker"" beginning 1938, opened on Broadway in April 2010 after a tryout in Chicago?" A: The Addams Family
Q: On 26 December 2004 Aceh in Sumatra, Indonesia, was devastated by what? A: A tsunami
Q: The Port of Hambantota, for which construction began in January 2008 to provide bunkering, ship repair, ship building and crew change facilities, is in which country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: "The book (and later a 1981 film) called ""Mommie Dearest"" published in 1978 was about which actress who appeared in films and on television from 1925 to 1975?" A: Joan Crawford
Q: "The film ""Vera Drake"" (2004) by Mike Leigh has as a central focus which field of activity in 1950s Britain?" A: Abortion
Q: Whose record album, produced by Phil Spector, was released while he is in jail serving a 19 year sentence for murder? A: Rachelle Short
Q: Who was the founder of engineering firm Marman Products Co, which designed and manufactured the catch which among other things held the Enola Gay bomb in place during transport? A: Zeppo Marx
Q: "Who, a drummer at the time, made the first known jazz recording using the vibraphone (""Memories of You"") with Louis Armstrong & His Sebastian New Cotton Club Orchestra in 1930 and then concentrated on the vibraphone, joining the Benny Goodman Quintet, and later leading his own big bands?" A: Lionel Hampton
Q: How many sons of Philip IV of France became King? A: 3
Q: Named for its colour, originally called Greek and prized as a paint pigment, is the mixture of compounds of what? A: Copper
Q: Part or all of the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea are claimed by how many different countries? A: 6
Q: In Star Wars, what is the name of Han Solo's spacecraft? A: Millenium Falcon
Q: "Who recited the poem ""The Gift Outright"" at John F Kennedy's inauguration as president of the USA in 1961?" A: Robert Frost
Q: Artists Ma Desheng, Wang Keping, Huang Rui, Li Shuang, Zhong Acheng, Ai Weiwei and Qu Leilei are associated with which avant-garde art group? A: Stars
Q: How many different countries does the 4,370 km (2,715 mi) Congo River run through or border? A: 10
Q: Although the position was not officially designated as such for nearly 200 years who was the first person (in 1721) unofficially called the Prime Minister of the British Parliament? A: Sir Robert Walpole
Q: """Four Quartets"", a set of four poems (""Burnt Norton"", ""East Coker"", ""The Dry Salvages"" and ""Little Gidding"") published between 1936 and 1942, were written by whom?" A: T. S. Eliot
Q: "The main character in the film ""Memento"" (2000) suffered from what mental condition?" A: Anterograde amnesia
Q: The World Games, first held in 1981 to provide a world forum for sports not contested in the Olympic Games, includes which sport - once an Olympic sport but dropped after 1920? A: Tug-o-war
Q: What name is primarily used in British English for red wine from the Bordeaux region of France? A: Claret
Q: Daisy Ridley and John Boyega achieved world-wide recognition as the two young stars in what film released December 2015? A: Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Q: What did Sir Francis Drake's ship, the Golden Hind, achieve from 1577 to 1580 ? A: Circumnavigated the globe
Q: """La Donna e Mobile"" is an aria from which opera?" A: Rigoletto
Q: "Which Austrian performed the winning song, ""Rise Like a Phoenix"", at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014?" A: Conchita Wurst
Q: BCG is a vaccine, the only one currently recognised by the World Health Organisation, for what disease? A: Tuberculosis
Q: Which book broke the record for book sales in July 2007, selling 15 million copies in the 24 hours following its release? A: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Q: What is the prevailing climate in Uruguay? A: Temperate
Q: What were the Quebec Nordiques known for? A: Ice hockey
Q: "The film ""Spectre"" (2015) is centred on what?" A: James Bond
Q: The French bank and financial services company, BNP Paribas, holds an annual event giving awards in what field? A: Philanthropy
Q: Boris Godunov ruled, first as de facto regent and then as ruler, in which country? A: Russia
Q: What is one of the fictional languages spoken by the Elves in the fantasy works of J R R Tolkien? A: Quenya
Q: At the end of the 8th century the Emperor of Japan moved his capital to which city? A: Kyoto
Q: Which is the missing country in the sequence: Angola, Congo, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Cameroon? A: Democratic Republic of the Congo
Q: A pink gin is gin mixed with what? A: Angostura bitters
Q: Which European country overthrew its monarchy and underwent a revolution 1789 to 1799? A: France
Q: "The 2010 release ""Plundered My Soul"" was an extra track on a re-released album by which artist(s)?" A: Rolling Stones
Q: March Bread is made or flavoured primarily by what? A: Almonds
Q: "The film ""Revenant"" (2015) was inspired by the experiences of what frontiersman?" A: Hugh Glass
Q: She trained as a goldsmith, has been a film actress, and a lead and solo singer with international and European hits under what name? A: Nena
Q: "John Wayne played the lead role of whom in the 1958 film ""The Conqueror""?" A: Genghis Khan
Q: "What was the family name of the Mafia mob depicted in the ""Godfather"" movies?" A: Corleone
Q: In 2003, Rebecca Wade became the first female editor of which British newspaper? A: Sun
Q: "Bob Fosse won a ""Best Director"" Oscar in 1972 for which film?" A: Cabaret
Q: Gumboot Day held since 1985, celebrating the gumboot and including gumboot throwing contest, takes place where? A: Taihape, New Zealand
Q: The shallow soda Mono Lake is in what state of the USA? A: California
Q: "The ""Hyksos"" was the name given to a people who assumed rule in which country in the second millennium BCE?" A: Egypt
Q: A large part of the vegetation of the Okavango Delta, named one of the Seven Natural Wonders of Africa in 2013, is what? A: Papyrus and reed rafts
Q: Which degenerative disorder is found in professional athletes in the fields of boxing, American football, association football, ice hockey, professional wrestling, stunt performing, bull riding, bicycle motocross and rodeo as a result of their sport? A: Chronic traumatic encephalopathy
Q: In which did the franc become the single currency in 1850? A: Switzerland
Q: Which new French wine is released annually on the third Thursday in November? A: Beaujolais
Q: """Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper"" is an example of what?" A: Tongue twister
Q: "What was the fist name of Mr. Micawber, who appeared in Charles Dickens's ""David Copperfield""?" A: Wilkins
Q: Which river flows from the Caspian Sea? A: None
Q: Shi'ite and Sunni are beliefs within what religion? A: Islam
Q: In 2004, who left the band Westlife? A: Brian McFadden
Q: "The TV series ""Broadchurch"" (2013 - present) stars Olivia Colman together with what actor famous for his Dr Who persona?" A: David Tennant
Q: Over how many holes is The British Open (golfing championship) played? A: 72
Q: Olof Palme was assassinated in 1986 when he was Prime Minister of which country? A: Sweden
Q: "The phrase ""eyeball to eyeball"" uses a figure of speech known as what?" A: Synecdoche
Q: "Who wrote ""Treasure Island"", ""Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde"", ""Kidnapped"" and ""The Master of Ballantrae""?" A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: Michael Douglas starred in what TV series, set in California, which ran on US TV from 1972 and 1980? A: The Streets of San Francisco
Q: "Which is the 17th century German mathematician and astronomer (at one time assistant to Tycho Brahe) whose works, including "" Epitome of Copernican Astronomy"", provided one of the foundations for Isaac Newton's theory of universal gravitation?" A: Johannes Kepler
Q: In what country did the Boxer War, or Boxer Rebellion, happen? A: China
Q: "Who wrote ""It Takes a Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us"", a book published in 1996 that focuses on the impact individuals and groups outside the family have on a child's well-being?" A: Hillary Rodham Clinton
Q: In which country are the Angel Falls, or Kerepakupai Ven? A: Venezuela
Q: The last four nations to join the United Nations 193 members are Switzerland (2002), Timor-Leste (2002), Montenegro (2006) and which other nation? A: South Sudan
Q: "Who or what did the music hall performer mean when he sang of ""my old dutch""?" A: His wife
Q: Who, in the 6th century BCE, was the last king of Lydia, Solon, who made war on Cyrus, King of Persia, and was defeated? A: Croesus
Q: Which country held the Rugby League World Cup from 1975 to 2000 (for 6 contests)? A: Australia
Q: Where was co-founder of band which became Crowded House, Tim Finn, born and raised? A: New Zealand
Q: From the 10th to the 14th centuries Scandinavian and, later, Anglo Saxon warriors formed the guard for Byzantine emperors under what name? A: Varangian Guard
Q: Neo, Morpheus and the city of Zion feature in what 1999 film? A: The Matrix
Q: "Throughout his early years in Indonesia, who was known to his playmates and at school as ""Barry Soetoro""?" A: Barack Obama
Q: The rights to which book, begun in 1768 by William Smellie and completed in 1771 and continually revised, were bought by Sears, Roebuck of Chicago, Illinois, USA in 1920? A: Encyclopaedia Brittanica
Q: For what sport is the Cresta Run, built in Switzerland in 1884, used? A: Sled racing
Q: "Who composed the music for the 1979 musical ""Sweeney Todd""?" A: Stephen Sondheim
Q: "What is the first sentence of the book ""Nineteen Eighty Four"" by George Orwell?" A: It was a bright, cold day in April and the clocks were striking thirteen
Q: What country separates the city of Dandong and Dochon-ri village? A: North Korea
Q: A punnet is used as what in relationship to strawberries and other soft fruit? A: Container
Q: "Which famous Ramone was never one of ""The Ramones""?" A: Phil
Q: Where is Iraq's main port? A: Basrah
Q: Which American novelist, poet and painter, a major figure of the Beat Generation who affected popular culture as well as literature, shot his wife in Mexico in 1951? A: William Burroughs
Q: "One of the children in the 19th century family at the centre of the famous murder trial dramatised in the UK TV show ""The Suspicions of Mr Whicher"", William Saville-Kent, became a naturalist whose seminal work shaped Australian practice in what area ?" A: Fisheries
Q: "Robert Drewe's book ""Our Sunshine"" was made into what film in 2003?" A: Ned Kelly
Q: What nationality were the first European settlers in Brooklyn, New York City? A: Dutch
Q: "Who formed the band called ""The Tin Machine"", that ran from 1988 to 1992, primarily to play for the ""Glass Spider"" world tour?" A: David Bowie
Q: "The melody of the song ""Happy Birthday to You"" dates from when?" A: 1893
Q: """Imagination encircles the world"" is an example of what figure of speech?" A: Metaphor
Q: The anxiety treatment drug Diazepam was originally marketed under what name? A: Valium
Q: "Who sang with UB40 on their hit record ""I Got You Babe""?" A: Chrissy Hynde
Q: Where are the Sugarloaf Mountain, the Morro da Babilnia, the Morro da Urca, and Mount Corcovado (with its famous giant religious statue)? A: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Q: "Which fictional character in the land of Oz, created by L. Frank Baum, is sometimes named ""Locasta"" or ""Tattypoo""?" A: The Good Witch of the North
Q: "Who, having been a Lieutenant General with three stars on his epaulettes, was posthumously appointed ""General of the Armies of the United States"" by a congressional joint resolution in 1976, with an effective appointment date of 4 July 1976?" A: George Washington
Q: """It was a dark and stormy night"", the ""standard"" for hackneyed writing, was the opening line of a novel by whom?" A: Edward Bulwer-Lytton
Q: "What fictitious national park was the setting for the 1960s TV series ""Skippy the Bush Kangaroo""?" A: Waratah
Q: In 146BCE Rome sacked Carthage and what other major city? A: Corinth
Q: Of these which is North Korea's nearest neighbour? A: People's Republic of China
Q: "Who was the leader of the band playing at the Palomar Ballroom, Los Angeles, in August 1935, when the ""Jitterbug"" became a new dance craze?" A: Benny Goodman
Q: In what year did clubs in the first division of the English Football League, founded in 1888, break away and found the Premier League? A: 1992
Q: In which country is the Nubian Desert? A: Sudan
Q: """The Count of Monte Cristo"" was originally written in which language?" A: French
Q: In the course of what did the captain of the Australian cricket team Michael Clarke resign in 2015? A: The Ashes
Q: Which religion has grown from 19th century teachings, of a man born in present day Iran and who died after a 24 year imprisonment in present day Israel? A: Bah
Q: In 1989 Carlo Petrini founded what? A: The Slow Food Movement
Q: What role did John Flamsteed (1646 1719) fill in Great Britain? A: Astronomer Royal
Q: Calicivirus, which was introduced illegally into New Zealand in 1997 to kill the exploding rabbit population, also has a form which seriously infects what other animal? A: Cats
Q: "Which of Ludwig van Beethoven's symphonies starts with two tempestuous statements, when interpreted by the Morse code, of the letter ""V""?" A: 5th
Q: Which is People's Republic of China's southernmost province? A: Hainan
Q: "Complete the title of this James Bond film: ""Diamonds Are ... ""?" A: Forever
Q: "In plays performed ""in the round"" where does the audience sit in relation to the playing area?" A: On all sides
Q: "In parts of the UK what does ""tethera"" mean?" A: Three
Q: Over the course of 17 years from 1985 to 2002 what did actor Whoopi Goldberg complete, one of only twelve people to do so? A: EGOT
Q: What is the name of the simplified Roman alphabet-based phonetic system of Chinese script adopted in 1958 at the Fifth Session of the 1st National People's Congress in mainland China? A: Hanyu Pinyin
Q: What effect does an analgaesic have? A: Relief from pain
Q: What Scottish patriotic song, used frequently at special occasions and sporting events, was written by a member of the folk group The Corries in 1967? A: Flower of Scotland
Q: Which TV series starred Richard Dean Anderson as a secret agent for the fictional Phoenix Foundation in Los Angeles, who is able to solve a wide range of problems with his Swiss army knife? A: MacGyver
Q: What is the name of the holy book of te Sikh faith? A: Guru Granth Sahib
Q: What country would you travel through in going from Honduras to Costa Rica? A: Nicaragua
Q: Who, aged 54, married 18 year old Oona O'Neill, the daughter of American playwright Eugene O'Neill, in June 1943? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: """Ted"" Kaczynski, an American anarchist and mathematical prodigy, became known as what?" A: Unabomber
Q: "Who created the character of Harold C. ""Rabbit"" Angstrom who appears in the stories ""Rabbit, Run"", ""Rabbit Redux"", ""Rabbit Is Rich"", ""Rabbit at Rest"" and ""Rabbit Remembered""?" A: John Updike
Q: Which actor won the 2012 Golden Raspberry Award for both the worst actor and the worst actress in a 2011 film? A: Adam Sandler
Q: The lights were turned off in the Empire State Building for 15 minutes in August 2004 to mark the death of whom? A: Fay Wray
Q: "What year were the films ""Eyes Wide Shut"", ""Sixth Sense"", ""Toy Story 2"", and ""Fight Club"" released?" A: 1999
Q: A two-wheeled self-powered and self-balancing vehilce unveiled in 2001 is called what? A: Segway
Q: "What, according to the stories, did the Spartans reply to Philip II of Macedon when he sent them a threat of war saying ""If I enter Laconia, I will raze Sparta""?" A: """If"""
Q: "Who was the first person to win a Tony Award, an Academy Award and an Emmy Award in the same year, and the only person to have won all 3 awards in the category of ""Best Director""?" A: Bob Fosse
Q: On what continent are the following found: Mt Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro Crater (the worlds largest unbroken caldera), Nile River, Okavango Delta, Red Sea Reef, Sahara Desert, and the Serengeti Migration? A: Africa
Q: What is the title of the unfinished novel by Robert Louis Stevenson? A: The Weir of Hermiston
Q: When Warren Hastings, returning from a term as Governor-General in 1786, was impeached (and acquitted) where had he been in office? A: India
Q: A form of invasive toxic freshwater algal bloom known as blue-green is caused by what? A: Cyanobacteria
Q: "The mural-size canvas painted in oils, known as ""Guernica"", was painted by whom?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: "Which 19th century French novelist wrote books about ""The Three Musketeers""?" A: Alexandre Dumas
Q: "Who had hit records with ""Long Tall Sally"" and ""Good Golly Miss Molly""?" A: Little Richard
Q: The Scandinavian drink, Lillehammer Berry Liqueur, is made from what berries? A: Lingonberries
Q: Georges Pompidou, Prime Minister of France 1962-68) succeeded whom as President in 1969? A: Alain Poher
Q: """Jessica"", the theme tune of the TV programme ""Top Gear"", was originally recorded by whom?" A: The Allman Brothers Band
Q: "Which psychological thriller film was the first appearance for Angela Lansbury (currently in long-running US TV serial ""Murder She Wrote"") and won its lead actress her first Academy Award for Best Actress?" A: Gaslight (1944)
Q: A bodhrn, tabor, pandeiro and bongo are types of what? A: Drum
Q: The names of Maradona, Platini and Cruyff are associated with what World Championships? A: Football (soccer)
Q: The leader of the Catholic Church in England is based where? A: Westminster
Q: Which is the last major military engagement of the American Civil War? A: Battle of Five Forks
Q: In 1971 Alan Shepard fired two balls in which sporting code? A: Golf
Q: "Who was a British political reformer, writer and politician, noted for her long-standing championship of the Single Transferable Vote system of elections who is the author (1974) of ""How Democracies Vote"", a standard reference work on electoral systems?" A: Enid Lakeman
Q: What is a style of delivery mostly used in operas, oratorios, and cantata, in which a singer adopts the rhythms of ordinary speech? A: Recitative
Q: Adele Laurie Blue Adkins MBE is internationally known as what? A: A singer and songwriter
Q: "What was the occupation of the character played by Maggie Smith in ""The Prime Of Miss Jean Brodie""?" A: Teacher
Q: "When did the style of football known as ""Total Football"" reach the World Cup?" A: 1974
Q: Actors Saoirse Ronan, Julie Walter, Domnhall Gleeson and Jim Broadbent appeared in which film? A: Brooklyn
Q: In 1949, in the last stages of the Chinese Civil War, Mao Zedong announced the creation of the People's Republic of China in which newly named capital of the Republic? A: Beijing
Q: Who created the fictional detective Lord Peter Wimsey? A: Dorothy L Sayers
Q: Jean-Claude Van Damme plays both of the twins, separated after the death of their parents, in which 1991 film? A: Double Impact
Q: Who became vice-president and then president of the USA without having been voted into either office? A: Gerald Ford
Q: How many sports are there in a decathlon? A: 10
Q: Balsamic vinegar is traditionally made from fermented what? A: Grapes
Q: When Kobe Bryant of the Lakers played the farewell game of his 20 year NBA career in 2016 what was his score as part of his side's 101-96 win? A: 60
Q: "In the book ""Treasure Island"", what did Ben Gunn dream of?" A: Cheese
Q: The second Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dag Hammarskjld, died in office in 1961 and became subsequently one of only four people to receive a posthumous Nobel Peace Prize. How did he die? A: In a plane crash
Q: A painting discovered in France in 2016 of Judith beheading Holofernes has been attributed to what artist? A: Caravaggio
Q: A washboard scraped with a thimble features as an instrument in what kind of music? A: Skiffle
Q: "Gene Hackman did not appear with Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder in which of the ""Superman"" film series released between 1978 and 1987?" A: Superman III (1983)
Q: The inability or near inability in colour blindness to differentiate between some colours is, in the most common form of it, between red and which other colour? A: Green
Q: "What is the etymology of ""malaria""?" A: Bad air
Q: In February 2014 which sought after film actor married opera director Sophie Hunter? A: Benedict Cumberbatch
Q: What is the peptide hormone produced in all vertebrates and some others to promote the absorption of glucose from the blood to muscles and fat tissue? A: Insulin
Q: Who was the last Empress of All the Russias? A: Alexandra
Q: "Who took the lead role in the 2014 film ""The Imitation Game""?" A: Benedict Cumberbatch
Q: In July caribou migrate in large numbers south across which continent? A: North America
Q: Bartizan, stylobate, breastsummer are terms found in what discipline? A: Architecture
Q: On Christmas Day 1914 during World War I, there was an unofficial truce between British and German troops at various places along the lines. In sub-zero temperatures in no-man's land near Armentieres, France, the soldiers played what game? A: Football
Q: Wenceslas Square is in which capital city? A: Prague
Q: Which city, established in 1849 as a protective Army outpost situated on a bluff overlooking the Trinity River, is the home of a NASCAR track called The Texas Motor Speedway? A: Fort Worth
Q: In 1936, Anastasio Somoza became the dictator of which country? A: Nicaragua
Q: What city built the first underground train network? A: London
Q: What city ceased to be the capital of Japan? A: Kyoto
Q: What canal opened in Egypt? A: Suez Canal
Q: Who had a tea party with the Mad Hatter and the March Hare? A: Alice
Q: What country was briefly led by Emperor Maximilian - a puppet of France? A: Mexico
Q: What country was unified under King Victor Emmanuel II? A: Italy
Q: What did the U.S. buy from Russia for just two cents an acre? A: Alaska
Q: What mountain on the Swiss / Italian border was climbed for the first time? A: The Matterhorn
Q: What was the deadliest battle of the American Civil War? A: Battle of Gettysburg
Q: In what country did 20 million die after a man proclaimed himself as the brother of Jesus? A: China
Q: What railroad was completed by a golden spike in Utah? A: Transcontinental Railroad
Q: Who invented the practical light bulb? A: Thomas Edison
Q: What period of history in the American South came to an end? A: Reconstruction
Q: What became the world's first national park? A: Yellowstone
Q: "What city was briefly ruled by a socialist ""commune"" of the people?" A: Paris
Q: What kingdom, led by Otto von Bismarck, united Germany under its leadership? A: Prussia
Q: What Jewish-born Prime Minister led the United Kingdom? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: What art movement was exemplified by Claude Monet? A: Impressionism
Q: Who was W.S. Gilbert's songwriting partner? A: Arthur Sullivan
Q: What statue was given to the United States by France? A: Statue of Liberty
Q: What tower, built for the World's Fair, became the tallest man-made structure? A: Eiffel Tower
Q: What serial killer killed prostitutes in Whitechapel, London? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: What Paris cabaret was famous for the can-can? A: Moulin Rouge
Q: In what city was the world's first skycraper built? A: Chicago
Q: "What character made his first appearance in the story ""A Study in Scarlet""?" A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What became the last country in the Americas to abolish slavery? A: Brazil
Q: "What author wrote ""Adventures of Huckleberry Finn""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: What U.S. state was opened up to a land rush? A: Oklahoma
Q: What Apache leader finally surrended after 30 years of fighting? A: Geronimo
Q: What was invented by Karl Benz? A: Automobile
Q: "In what country did ""bushranger"" Ned Kelly meet his end?" A: Australia
Q: "What ""nerve tonic"" was created by John Pemberton of Atlanta, Georgia?" A: Coca Cola
Q: What was Western showman William Cody better known as? A: Buffalo Bill
Q: What city was the Eastern terminus of the Orient Express? A: Constantinople
Q: What character was created by Bram Stoker? A: Dracula
Q: What style of dance was invented in Argentina and Uruguay? A: Tango
Q: What Christmas ballet was written by Pyotr Tchaikovsky? A: The Nutcracker
Q: What type of baskets were originally used in basketball? A: Peach Baskets
Q: What famous hotel in Paris opened? ( The only reason not to stay there was if you couldn't afford it ) A: Htel Ritz
Q: What future President led a group of soldiers called the Rough Riders? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: To what Pacific island did Paul Gauguin move? A: Tahiti
Q: "What composer wrote his most famous march, ""The Stars and Stripes Forever"" ?" A: John Philip Sousa
Q: What gold rush happened in Canada? A: Klondike Gold Rush
Q: What new invention was first tested near Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina? A: Airplane
Q: What art movement was started by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso? A: Cubism
Q: What American city was struck by a major earthquake? A: San Francisco
Q: On what river was the Aswan Dam built? A: Nile
Q: What civil rights organization was founded by W.E.B. DuBois? A: NAACP
Q: What destination was almost reached by explorer Robert Peary? A: The North Pole
Q: What theory of spacetime was formulated by Albert Einstein? A: Special Relativity
Q: "What musical genre was exemplified by Scott Joplin's ""The Entertainer""?" A: Ragtime
Q: Who was assassinated by anarchist Leon Czolgosz? A: William McKinley
Q: "Who began writing ""In Search of Lost Time""?" A: Marcel Proust
Q: What city was devastated by an eruption of Mount Vesuvius? A: Naples
Q: What style of variety show was popular? A: Vaudeville
Q: In what modern-day country was the Second Boer War fought? A: South Africa
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Kim""?" A: Rudyard Kipling
Q: What group of people were the victims of genocide in the Ottoman Empire? A: Armenians
Q: What communist faction came to power in Russia? A: Bolshevik
Q: What ballet by Igor Stravinsky shocked audiences when it premiered in 1913? A: The Rite of Spring
Q: What Native American athlete won gold medals in the decathlon and pentathlon? A: Jim Thorpe
Q: What movie by D.W. Griffith glorified the Ku Klux Klan? A: The Birth of a Nation
Q: What yellow-brown chemical weapon was used? A: Mustard Gas
Q: What oil baron became the first billionaire? A: John D. Rockefeller
Q: What Frenchwoman won a Nobel Prize for chemistry? A: Marie Curie
Q: What was the nickname of pilot Manfred von Richthofen? A: The Red Baron
Q: What British adventurer fought in the Arab Revolt? A: T.E. Lawrence
Q: Who flew the Spirit of St. Louis? A: Charles Lindbergh
Q: What was F. Scott Fitzgerald's most famous novel? A: The Great Gatsby
Q: Which ancient Egyptian pharaoh was dug up? A: Tutankhamun
Q: What escape artist died after being punched in the stomach? A: Harry Houdini
Q: "What trumpeter was known as ""Satchmo""?" A: Louis Armstrong
Q: Who wore a bowler hat, had a mustache, and often carried a cane? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: "Who wrote ""Farewell to Arms"" and ""The Sun Also Rises""?" A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: What did John Logie Baird invent? A: Television
Q: "What type of movie declined after the release of ""The Jazz Singer"", starring Al Jolson?" A: Silent Movie
Q: "Who composed ""Rhapsody in Blue""?" A: George Gershwin
Q: In what sport did Gene Tunney defeat Jack Dempsey? A: Boxing
Q: What miracle drug was discovered by Alexander Fleming? A: Penicillin
Q: What economic downturn lasted through most of the decade? A: The Great Depression
Q: What country was invaded to start WWII? A: Poland
Q: "What country's civil war was called a ""dress rehearsal"" for WWII?" A: Spain
Q: What building became the world's tallest in 1931? A: Empire State Building
Q: What book by John Steinbeck was about poor Okies looking for work in California? A: The Grapes of Wrath
Q: What communist led his forces on the Long March? A: Mao Zedong
Q: "Who starred as Rhett Butler in ""Gone With the Wind""?" A: Clark Gable
Q: "What character from ""The Wizard of Oz"" lacked a brain?" A: Scarecrow
Q: Who famously danced with Ginger Rogers? A: Fred Astaire
Q: "What child actress delighted audiences in ""Curly Top"" and ""Heidi""?" A: Shirley Temple
Q: What instrument was played by bandleaders Benny Goodman and Artie Shaw? A: Clarinet
Q: Who was Stan Laurel's comedic partner? A: Oliver Hardy
Q: "In what movie did Sam play the song ""As Time Goes On""?" A: Casablanca
Q: In what city did Anne Frank hide? A: Amsterdam
Q: "Who said ""I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears, and sweat""?" A: Winston Churchill
Q: Who was assassinated in New Delhi in 1948? A: Mahatma Gandhi
Q: What new country was led by David Ben-Gurion? A: Israel
Q: At what university did J.R.R. Tolkien teach? A: Oxford
Q: "Who wrote the play ""Death of a Salesman""?" A: Arthur Miller
Q: What name was given to Japanese suicide pilots? A: Kamikaze
Q: "What bebopping saxophonist was known as ""Bird""?" A: Charlie Parker
Q: "What musical featured the songs ""Some Enchanted Evening"" and ""Bali Ha'i""?" A: South Pacific
Q: To what island did Chiang Kai-shek flee? A: Taiwan
Q: What rebel without a cause died in a car crash? A: James Dean
Q: What was Norma Jeane Mortenson better known as? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What became the 50th U.S. state? A: Hawaii
Q: For what disease did Jonas Salk create a vaccine? A: Polio
Q: What region did China annex? A: Tibet
Q: "Who starred as Moses in ""The Ten Commandments""?" A: Charlton Heston
Q: "What rich chocolately product allowed kids to send in for ""secret decoder rings""?" A: Ovaltine
Q: What rocker died in a plane crash along with the Big Bopper and Ritchie Valens? A: Buddy Holly
Q: What singer was managed by Colonel Tom Parker? A: Elvis Presley
Q: "What type of ""miracle"" did West Germany have?" A: Economic Miracle
Q: What were 78's, 45's, and 33's? A: Records
Q: In what (modern-day) country did The Mau Mau Uprising occur? A: Kenya
Q: "Who sang ""Johnny B. Goode""?" A: Chuck Berry
Q: Who was assassinated in Memphis? A: Martin Luther King, Jr.
Q: Who won the 1966 World Cup? A: England
Q: "What pesticide was criticized by the book ""Silent Spring""?" A: DDT
Q: "Who said ""We're more popular than Jesus now""?" A: John Lennon
Q: What gang provided security for the Rolling Stones at the Altamont Free Concert? A: The Hells Angels
Q: "What artist's studio was called ""The Factory""?" A: Andy Warhol
Q: Who was Jackie Kennedy's second husband? A: Aristotle Onassis
Q: "Who wrote the true crime novel ""In Cold Blood""?" A: Truman Capote
Q: What country had massive student and worker protests in May of 1968? A: France
Q: Who was the first person to go into space? A: Yuri Gagarin
Q: What event did Bob Beamon win at the 1968 Summer Olympics? A: Long Jump
Q: What dance was popularized by Chubby Checker? A: The Twist
Q: What city had a Summer of Love? A: San Francisco
Q: "Who sang ""Happy Birthday, Mr. President""?" A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What British actor did Elizabeth Taylor marry? A: Richard Burton
Q: What musical had a notorious nude scene? A: Hair
Q: What doll was introduced as Barbie's boyfriend? A: Ken
Q: What brand of sugary drink mix did astronauts drink? A: Tang
Q: "Who wrote ""To Kill a Mockingbird""?" A: Harper Lee
Q: Who was the only black member of the Rat Pack? A: Sammy Davis Jr.
Q: On what magazine's cover did Alfred E. Neuman frequently appear? A: Mad
Q: What did Nikita Khrushchev bang against his desk at a meeting of the United Nations? A: His Shoe
Q: What was hosted by Seattle in 1962, New York City in 1964, and Montreal in 1967? A: The World's Fair
Q: Who was the President of France for most of the decade? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: What country replaced a shah with an ayatollah? A: Iran
Q: "What Asian city hosted a ""thriller"" between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier?" A: Manila
Q: What term refers to an economy with high inflation and low growth? A: Stagflation
Q: What paddle-based game was the first commercially successful video game? A: Pong
Q: What was the nickname of the anonymous source who leaked the Watergate scandal? A: Deep Throat
Q: What became the world's tallest building in 1973? A: Sears Tower
Q: What brutal dictator seized power in Cambodia? A: Pol Pot
Q: What city fell to the Communists on April 30, 1975? A: Saigon
Q: What city hosted the Summer Olympics in 1972? A: Munich
Q: In what country did Augusto Pinochet seize power? A: Chile
Q: What phrase accompanied a yellow smiley face? A: Have a Nice Day
Q: What country became independent from Pakistan? A: Bangladesh
Q: At what Presidential retreat did Israel and Egypt sign a peace accord? A: Camp David
Q: "Who wrote ""Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas""?" A: Hunter S. Thompson
Q: What city was divided by a wall until 1989? A: Berlin
Q: "Who scored ""The Goal of the Century"" in the 1986 World Cup?" A: Diego Maradona
Q: What was Sony's portable tape player called? A: Walkman
Q: What was the name of the Soviet space station? A: Mir
Q: Whose rookie card was the first baseball card printed by Upper Deck in 1989? A: Ken Griffey Jr.
Q: What did Pac-Man eat to make the ghosts turn blue? A: Power Pellet
Q: What video tape technology was defeated by VHS? A: Betamax
Q: What movie star released a famous aerobics video? A: Jane Fonda
Q: What disease killed actor Rock Hudson? A: AIDS
Q: What country did the United Kingdom fight a war with? A: Argentina
Q: "What brand of sunglasses were worn by Tom Cruise in ""Risky Business"" and Don Johnson in ""Miami Vice""?" A: Ray-Ban
Q: Who was the Princess of Monaco that died in a car crash? A: Grace Kelly
Q: "What cola was advertised as ""all the sugar and twice the caffeine""?" A: Jolt
Q: "What blundering politician was ""no Jack Kennedy"" according to Lloyd Bentsen?" A: Dan Quayle
Q: What brand of over-the-counter medication was tampered with, killing seven? A: Tylenol
Q: What was the nickname of Reagan's proposed missile shield? A: Star Wars
Q: Terrorists from what country blew up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland? A: Libya
Q: What sprinter shattered the women's record in the 100 meter dash? A: Florence Griffith Joyner
Q: "What service coined the phrase ""You've Got Mail""?" A: AOL
Q: What blue pill was introduced by Pfizer? A: Viagra
Q: Who was the first black President of South Africa? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: What special prosecutor released prurient details about Bill Clinton's personal life? A: Ken Starr
Q: What famous person died just 5 days after Princess Diana? A: Mother Teresa
Q: What nerve gas killed 13 people in the Tokyo subway? A: Sarin
Q: What disease infected 180,000 British cows? A: Mad Cow
Q: "What 6'4"" drag queen gain notoriety?" A: RuPaul
Q: What city's Petronas Towers became the world's tallest buildings? A: Kuala Lumpur
Q: What tribe committed genocide against the Tutsis? A: The Hutus
Q: Who preceded Tony Blair as Prime Minister? A: John Major
Q: What policy allowed closeted gays to serve in the U.S. military? A: Don't Ask, Don't Tell
Q: Who became, in 1999, the most muscular governor in Minnesota history? A: Jesse Ventura
Q: What player was Michael Jordan's second fiddle? A: Scottie Pippen
Q: In what city did Princess Diana die? A: Paris
Q: If an egg is your brain, what is a fried egg? A: Your Brain on Drugs
Q: What tunnel connected England and France? A: Channel Tunnel
Q: What ADHD drug became heavily prescribed? A: Ritalin
Q: On what holiday was an important Northern Ireland peace treaty signed? A: Good Friday
Q: What dialect did the Oakland School Board propose teaching classes in? A: Ebonics
Q: What brand of soccer shorts were incredibly popular, and worn by Brazil's national team? A: Umbro
Q: "What video game ended with a ""Fatality"", or rarely ""Friendship""?" A: Mortal Kombat
Q: What popular video game simulated playing a guitar? A: Guitar Hero
Q: What hurricane struck New Orleans in 2005? A: Hurricane Katrina
Q: On what website could you watch lonelygirl15? A: YouTube
Q: Whose birth certificate became an obsession for conspiracy theorists? A: Barack Obama
Q: What country suffered the most deaths from the 2004 tsunami? A: Indonesia
Q: What was the name of Al Gore's documentary? A: An Inconvenient Truth
Q: Who was automatically your first friend on MySpace? A: Tom Anderson
Q: What country did Russia invade in 2008? A: Georgia
Q: What British graffiti artist gained worldwide fame? A: Banksy
Q: "Who wrote ""The Da Vinci Code""?" A: Dan Brown
Q: What were Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez known as collectively? A: Bennifer
Q: What thin Motorola phone was the best-selling clamshell phone of all time? A: RAZR
Q: What type of shirt did Steve Jobs wear? A: Turtleneck
Q: "What ""fake mohawk"" hairstyle was worn by David Beckham?" A: Fauxhawk
Q: Who won 8 gold medals at the Beijing Olympics? A: Michael Phelps
Q: What internet service introduced #hashtags? A: Twitter
Q: What brand of SUV was based on a military vehicle? A: Hummer
Q: What was a hanging chad attached to? A: a Ballot
Q: "What version of poker was played at the ""World Series of Poker""?" A: Texas Hold'Em
Q: What British company made vacuum cleaners, hand dryers, and bladeless fans? A: Dyson
Q: What was the first social networking site to have 1 million members? A: Friendster
Q: What is the name for a group of whales? A: a Pod
Q: What micronation can be found along the French Riviera? A: Monaco
Q: What is the chemical formula of Sodium Chloride? A: NaCl
Q: "What philosopher is credited with the phrase ""I think therefore I am""?" A: Ren Descartes
Q: What is the largest lake in the Alps? A: Lake Geneva
Q: What 17 year old Brazilian scored twice in the 1958 World Cup final? A: Pel
Q: Matthew McConaughey won an Oscar in 2014 for his role in what movie? A: Dallas Buyers Club
Q: "What real-life person is the inspiration for the character Napoleon in the book ""Animal Farm""?" A: Joseph Stalin
Q: "What weapons are known as ""poor man's grenades""?" A: Molotov Cocktails
Q: Which country has the world's only non-quadrilateral national flag? A: Nepal
Q: What famous bluesman has a guitar named Lucille? A: B.B. King
Q: What relation are TV characters Phineas and Ferb to each other? A: Stepbrothers
Q: Which country contains the cities of Bacolod, Cebu, and Davao? A: Philippines
Q: In which sea would you find the Gulf of Bothnia? A: Baltic Sea
Q: What is the name of the Islamic month of fasting? A: Ramadan
Q: Which Cluedo character was originally named Colonel Yellow? A: Colonel Mustard
Q: The Great Barrier Reef is located off the coast of which Australian state? A: Queensland
Q: "In the film ""Cast Away"", what company does Tom Hanks work for?" A: FedEx
Q: What is the largest landlocked country in the world? A: Kazakhstan
Q: "What famous novel invented the terms ""thoughtcrime"" and ""doubleplusgood""?" A: Nineteen Eighty-Four
Q: "What Scottish poet wrote ""Auld Lang Syne""?" A: Robert Burns
Q: """Grande Fratello"" is the Italian version of what television franchise?" A: Big Brother
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, how many men did the Grand Old Duke of York have? A: Ten Thousand
Q: "With which crooner did Lady Gaga collaborate on the 2014 album ""Cheek To Cheek""?" A: Tony Bennett
Q: "Who owns Springfield's local tavern in ""The Simpsons""?" A: Moe Szyslak
Q: On what lane did the Muffin Man live? A: Drury Lane
Q: "What German loan word means ""spirit of the age""?" A: Zeitgeist
Q: What supermodel married Tom Brady in 2009? A: Gisele Bndchen
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of wisdom? A: Athena
Q: What American politician won a Nobel Peace Prize for his climate change activism? A: Al Gore
Q: "What Englishwoman wrote just one novel, ""Wuthering Heights""?" A: Emily Bront
Q: "What real-life person was the subject of the movie ""The Theory of Everything""?" A: Stephen Hawking
Q: "What percussion instrument did Blue yster Cult need more of in a ""Saturday Night Live"" sketch?" A: Cowbell
Q: In what modern-day country did the Anglo-Zulu war take place? A: South Africa
Q: What celebration was outlawed by Puritans in the English Parliament in 1647? A: Christmas
Q: What singer was married to Christie Brinkley between 1985 and 1994? A: Billy Joel
Q: "What Carly Simon song has the lyric ""You probably think this song is about you""?" A: You're So Vain
Q: What is the real name of rapper P. Diddy? A: Sean Combs
Q: Inside what fortress was Anne Boleyn beheaded? A: Tower of London
Q: What was the surname of the rapper Tupac? A: Shakur
Q: Which element accounts for 75% of the weight of the sun? A: Hydrogen
Q: What are woofers and tweeters? A: Speakers
Q: In chess, which piece always remains on the same coloured squares? A: Bishop
Q: What is the main ingredient in risotto? A: Rice
Q: What Paris prison was stormed by the mob in 1789? A: Bastille
Q: Mogadishu is the capital of which African country? A: Somalia
Q: According to Franklin D. Roosevelt, what is the only thing we have to fear? A: Fear Itself
Q: What type of musical instrument is a hi-hat? A: Cymbal
Q: What type of creature is also known as a white ant? A: Termite
Q: What is the Japanese art of miniature plant cultivation? A: Bonsai
Q: "Who composed the ""Moonlight Sonata""?" A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: What is the nationality of boxer Manny Pacquiao? A: Filipino
Q: What gladiator led a slave revolt against Rome starting in 73 B.C.? A: Spartacus
Q: "In the book ""Animal Farm"", what real-life dictator was a model for Napoleon the pig?" A: Joseph Stalin
Q: "Who wrote ""A Farewell to Arms"" in 1929?" A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: What is fossilized tree resin called? A: Amber
Q: What Asian city hosted the Olympic Games in 1988? A: Seoul
Q: What type of creature is a cygnet? A: Young Swan
Q: What disease is caused by the Yersinia Pestis bacteria? A: Bubonic Plague
Q: "What 1978 film featured the songs ""You're the One That I Want"" and ""Born to Hand Jive""?" A: Grease
Q: What Japanese beverage is made by fermenting rice? A: Sake
Q: During which sea battle was Horatio Nelson killed? A: Battle of Trafalgar
Q: What is the capital of Romania? A: Bucharest
Q: "Who most famously painted ""The Last Supper""?" A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: "What is the name of Simba's uncle in ""The Lion King""" A: Scar
Q: What is a baby kangaroo called? A: Joey
Q: What TV show featured characters named Tinky-Winky and Laa-Laa? A: Teletubbies
Q: What is another name for Uluru? A: Ayers Rock
Q: What do you call the traditional Japanese art of folding paper? A: Origami
Q: What is the name of Adele's first album? A: 19
Q: What is the name of the flag of the United Kingdom? A: Union Flag
Q: What city is the seat of the Netherlands' government? A: The Hague
Q: What country uses the Dong as its currency? A: Vietnam
Q: What is the oldest university in England? A: Oxford
Q: What tropical island chain was famously visited by Charles Darwin? A: Galpagos Islands
Q: Who portrays the character Mr. Bean? A: Rowan Atkinson
Q: Whose twelve labors included slaying a hydra and cleaning stables? A: Hercules
Q: What language was invented in 1887 and has over 100,000 fluent speakers? A: Esperanto
Q: To which city do Muslims face when they pray? A: Mecca
Q: What is the the only US state whose name contains only one syllable? A: Maine
Q: What is the colloquial name for a myocardial infarction? A: Heart Attack
Q: What country used the Drachma as its currency, before switching to the Euro in 2001? A: Greece
Q: In what city was John F. Kennedy assassinated? A: Dallas
Q: "What weapon is used in Tchaikovsky's ""1812 Overture""?" A: Cannon
Q: What city-state did Rome battle during the Punic Wars? A: Carthage
Q: """Some animals are more equal than others"" is a quote from what book?" A: Animal Farm
Q: In chess, what results when a player is not in check but cannot make a legal move? A: Stalemate
Q: "What make of car did James Bond drive in the movie ""Goldfinger""?" A: Aston Martin
Q: What is the biggest city in central Australia? A: Alice Springs
Q: What did Mary Poppins use to fly? A: Umbrella
Q: What in the common name for ascorbic acid? A: Vitamin C
Q: Who is Bolivia named after? A: Simon Bolivar
Q: "Which Italian dessert literally means ""pick me up""?" A: Tiramisu
Q: In what mountain range would you find the Matterhorn? A: Pennine Alps
Q: Whose ear did Mike Tyson bite? A: Evander Holyfield
Q: What type of animal is Timon from the Lion King? A: Meerkat
Q: What is Deoxyribonucleic Acid better know as? A: DNA
Q: On what website would you find users Smosh and PewDiePie? A: YouTube
Q: "On which city did the Enola Gay drop ""Little Boy""?" A: Hiroshima
Q: What unit of measurement is used to measure speed on a boat? A: Knot
Q: "What is either the longest river in Italy or the main character in ""Kung-Fu Panda""?" A: Po
Q: What is a necrophobe afraid of? A: Death
Q: What dog breed is half labrador retriever, half poodle? A: Labradoodle
Q: What salty sea does the River Jordan flow into? A: Dead Sea
Q: "Who sang ""Love Me Tender""?" A: Elvis Presley
Q: "What movie featured the song ""Under the Sea""?" A: The Little Mermaid
Q: Who was killed at Ford's Theatre? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: What periodic table element is represented by the letter K? A: Potassium
Q: What country did Inglfr Arnarson become the first person to settle in the year 874? A: Iceland
Q: On what island would you find the Giant's Causeway? A: Ireland
Q: "What disease is also known as ""consumption""?" A: Tuberculosis
Q: What religion is associated with wearing dreadlocks? A: Rastafari
Q: The cravat was a predecessor to what modern garment? A: Necktie
Q: What U.S. territory lies about 1,600 miles south of Japan? A: Guam
Q: What is the only country in Central America that has English as its official language? A: Belize
Q: "What German military tactic means ""lightning war""?" A: Blitzkrieg
Q: What stimulant does Red Bull get its name from? A: Taurine
Q: What vestigial organ caused the death of Harry Houdini? A: Appendix
Q: "What word, starting with R, means ""bird of prey""?" A: Raptor
Q: What is the westernmost major city on mainland Europe? A: Lisbon
Q: What country do Legos come from originally? A: Denmark
Q: What city can be found across the English channel from Dover? A: Calais
Q: In what micronation would one find the district of Monte Carlo? A: Monaco
Q: From what sea does the United Kingdom extract most of its crude oil? A: North Sea
Q: What language has two written forms: Bokml and Nynorsk? A: Norwegian
Q: What was St. Petersburg called between 1924 and 1991? A: Leningrad
Q: What is the largest island in Greece? A: Crete
Q: What city, starting with the letter I, is the northernmost official city in the United Kingdom? A: Inverness
Q: What sea lies between Italy and Croatia? A: Adriatic Sea
Q: In what region of Spain is Barcelona located? A: Catalonia
Q: What French wine region ends in the letter x? A: Bordeaux
Q: What capital city lies just 55 km west of Bratislava? A: Vienna
Q: What is the full name of the English city of Hull? A: Kingston upon Hull
Q: What strait separates Spain from Africa? A: Strait of Gibraltar
Q: What are Neuschwanstein and Balmoral? A: Castles
Q: Other than the Vatican, what micronation is entirely surrounding by Italy? A: San Marino
Q: What sea contains the gulfs of Finland and Bothnia? A: Baltic Sea
Q: What country is found on Bulgaria's northern border? A: Romania
Q: Into what sea does the Volga River flow? A: Caspian Sea
Q: It's the second biggest city in Northern Ireland. Some people call it Derry. What do others call it? A: Londonderry
Q: What is the nearest major city to the tourist attraction of Pompei? A: Naples
Q: On what island is the city of Palma located? A: Mallorca
Q: What island is located due north of Sardinia? A: Corsica
Q: What country is part of the EU, but often considered to be part of Asia? A: Cyprus
Q: What is the capital of Albania? A: Tirana
Q: What Dutch city is home to Europe's busiest port? A: Rotterdam
Q: What's the capital of Ireland? A: Dublin
Q: What sea is located on the eastern end of the Bosphorus? A: Black Sea
Q: What is the busiest airport serving Paris? A: Charles de Gaulle
Q: What is the name of Germany's highway system? A: The Autobahn
Q: What region, starting with T, includes parts of Bulgaria, Greece, and Turkey? A: Thrace
Q: "From what Greek island do ""Lesbians"" come from?" A: Lesbos
Q: Other than Cyprus, what island country can be found in the Mediterranean Sea? A: Malta
Q: What is France's biggest coastal city? A: Marseille
Q: What island chain in the Atlantic was first settled by Portugal in the 1400's? A: Azores
Q: What is the English name of the city of Kbenhavn? A: Copenhagen
Q: What are Ponte Vecchio and Pont Neuf? A: Bridges
Q: In what English city would find a famous street named Penny Lane? A: Liverpool
Q: Birds of a feather do what? A: Flock Together
Q: What's the capital of the Philippines? A: Manila
Q: What element has symbol Pb? A: Lead
Q: Who was John Lennon's 2nd wife? A: Yoko Ono
Q: The West Bank is one Palestinian territory. What is the other one? A: The Gaza Strip
Q: What kind of hat do the Shriners often wear? A: Fez
Q: What is the name for the smallest animal in a litter? A: Runt
Q: What city hosts the Rose Bowl? A: Pasadena
Q: Favelas are shanty towns in what country? A: Brazil
Q: What is Africa's tallest mountain? A: Mt. Kilimanjaro
Q: What element has the symbol Sn? A: Tin
Q: What is the heaviest internal human organ? A: Liver
Q: What is the United States' top agricultural product? A: Corn
Q: "Which TV network airs ""The Colbert Report""?" A: Comedy Central
Q: Pillbox, Panama and Fez are types of what? A: Hats
Q: In what year was the Battle of Hastings? A: 1066
Q: In what country is Nokia based? A: Finland
Q: Ulan Bator is the capital of which country? A: Mongolia
Q: What is the modern birthstone for July? A: Ruby
Q: Big Boi and Andre 3000 are members of what rap group? A: Outkast
Q: Whose wife was turned into a pillar of salt? A: Lot's
Q: In what country did espresso originate? A: Italy
Q: "In what city does the movie ""Robocop"" take place?" A: Detroit
Q: Whose embalmed body has been on display near Red Square since 1924? A: Vladimir Lenin
Q: "On what planet did the movie ""Planet of the Apes"" take place?" A: Earth
Q: "What is the English name for the group ""Mdecins Sans Frontires""?" A: Doctors Without Borders
Q: Croissants are usually associated with France. But which country are they from originally? A: Austria
Q: What does a bibliophile love? A: Books
Q: What is the most popular spectator sport in Japan? A: Baseball
Q: "What legendary ""steel-driving man"" died after defeating a steam-powered hammer?" A: John Henry
Q: What is the name for the art of preparing and stuffing animal skins? A: Taxidermy
Q: What empire was ruled by Nebuchadnezzar? A: Babylon
Q: What country became independent from Pakistan in 1971? A: Bangladesh
Q: What is another name for caribou? A: Reindeer
Q: In what city would you find the Bolshoi Theatre? A: Moscow
Q: What Japanese cartoon cat has appeared on dolls, greeting cards, toasters, and even a commercial jet? A: Hello Kitty
Q: What is the official name of the city of Derry, in Northern Ireland? A: Londonderry
Q: "What ""supercontinent"" contained nearly all the world's land during the age of the dinosaurs?" A: Pangea
Q: "What is the literally translation of ""Kindergarten""?" A: Children's Garden
Q: What element are diamonds made of? A: Carbon
Q: "On what river do Oxford and Cambridge compete in a ""Boat Race""?" A: Thames
Q: What is the most widely-produced assault rifle of all time? A: AK-47
Q: Tenerife, La Palma, and Fuerteventura are part of what Spanish island chain? A: Canary Islands
Q: What fictional character has a skeleton made of adamantium? A: Wolverine
Q: What 2013 film is the highest-grossing animated movie of all-time? A: Frozen
Q: In the year 1800, what was the Earth's largest undiscovered landmass? A: Antarctica
Q: "In the book ""Great Expectations"", what did Miss Havisham wear every day?" A: Wedding Dress
Q: What Paris cabaret was famous for the can-can dance, and was the subject of a 2001 movie starring Nicole Kidman? A: Moulin Rouge
Q: What was the name of the comic strip that featured Charlie Brown and Snoopy? A: Peanuts
Q: "What island chain at the tip of South America can be translated as ""Land of Fire""?" A: Tierra del Fuego
Q: Which country contains the cities of Cairo, Oxford, Berlin, and Athens? A: United States
Q: If I drive from Toulouse to Zaragoza, what mountain range will I likely cross? A: Pyrenees
Q: What Greek god was the equivalent of the Roman god Neptune? A: Poseidon
Q: What green stone was prized in ancient China, and used to make burial suits for royalty? A: Jade
Q: What iconic album cover featured the four band members walking across a street in single file? A: Abbey Road
Q: What province nearly voted to declare independence from Canada in 1995? A: Quebec
Q: What elite scholarship is given to foreign students for post-graduate study at Oxford? A: Rhodes Scholarship
Q: What body part was Achilles's only vulnerability? A: Heel
Q: "Whose effigy is burned on ""Bonfire Night"" in the UK?" A: Guy Fawkes
Q: What did the Manhattan Project create? A: Atomic Bomb
Q: What Olympic event was won by Kim Kardashian's step-father, Bruce Jenner? A: Decathlon
Q: "What devilish creature of European lore can be described as an ""anti Santa Claus""?" A: Krampus
Q: "What figurative ""curtain"" separated Eastern and Western Europe during the Cold War?" A: Iron Curtain
Q: What sauce is made with basil, pine nuts, garlic, cheese, and olive oil? A: Pesto
Q: What African country was founded as a place for freed American slaves? A: Liberia
Q: Which U.S. President had the shortest lifespan, just 46 years? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: In what country did the Tamil Tigers wage a civil war? A: Sri Lanka
Q: "In which U.S. state was ""LOST"" filmed?" A: Hawaii
Q: "What type of alcohol, known as ""the green fairy"", was once banned in most of Europe?" A: Absinthe
Q: Impalas and Springboks are types of what? A: Antelope
Q: What was J.S. Bach's middle name? A: Sebastian
Q: What was the last name of literary sisters Charlotte, Emily, and Anne? A: Bront
Q: What is the most famous book written by Mario Puzo? A: The Godfather
Q: What are Peach, Xena, and Mononoke? A: Princesses
Q: Laphroaig, Glenfiddich, and Aberfeldy are types of what? A: Scotch Whisky
Q: What country is projected to become the world's largest oil producer in the year 2014? A: United States
Q: What is either Superman's home planet or an element starting with K? A: Krypton
Q: "What country, to Winston Churchill, was ""a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma""?" A: Russia
Q: What film director has parodied Frankenstein, Star Wars, and Robin Hood? A: Mel Brooks
Q: Where would you find Olympus Mons? A: Mars
Q: What food is sometimes called the French version of a pancake? A: Crpes
Q: Australia has two national animals. One is the kangaroo. What's the other one? A: Emu
Q: "What city has been called ""The Paris of the Pampas""?" A: Buenos Aires
Q: What is the typical method of execution in Saudi Arabia? A: Beheading
Q: What country gets nearly 75% of its electricity from nuclear power? A: France
Q: What was the profession of W. B. Yeats? A: Poet
Q: What was the name of the rabid Saint Bernard in the Stephen King book of the same name? A: Cujo
Q: What is either a type of tree or an expensive ski resort in Colorado? A: Aspen
Q: What type of snake is known for spitting? A: Cobra
Q: Which Greek god could supposedly be reached by the Oracle of Delphi? A: Apollo
Q: What is the name of Mickey Mouse's pet dog? A: Pluto
Q: What is depicted on the the flag of Canada? A: Maple Leaf
Q: "What was the name of the dog in the children's book series ""Dick and Jane""?" A: Spot
Q: What traditional dish is made with sheep organs and oatmeal, encased in an animal stomach? A: Haggis
Q: What country is on the exact opposite end of the globe from Beijing, China? A: Argentina
Q: What type of eyewear is associated with the old rich people - and also Mr. Peanut? A: Monocle
Q: "On what island did the term ""Mafia"" originate?" A: Sicily
Q: What did James Naismith invent in 1891? A: Basketball
Q: In whIch Dutch city would you find the International Court of Justice? A: The Hague
Q: Other than Puerto Rico, what is the most populous U.S. Territory? A: Guam
Q: What British comedian partnered with Stephen Fry before starring as Dr. House? A: Hugh Laurie
Q: What country defeated Brazil 7-1 in the semi-finals of the 2014 FIFA World Cup? A: Germany
Q: What did the Normans conquer in 1066? A: England
Q: What country is made up mostly of Jutland and Zealand? A: Denmark
Q: What genre of music was played by Robert Johnson and Muddy Waters? A: Blues
Q: What is the name of the geographical line runs through the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London? A: Prime Meridian
Q: What is the profession of Alfred Pennyworth and Jeeves? A: Butler
Q: Who did Ringo Starr replace as drummer for The Beatles? A: Pete Best
Q: "What ""shaping"" garment of the 19th century was meant to give women an hourglass figure?" A: Corset
Q: In what city would you find the Brandenburg Gate? A: Berlin
Q: "What Scottish pattern is often called ""plaid"" in the United States?" A: Tartan
Q: What stereotypical naval beverage was made with water, rum, and lemon juice? A: Grog
Q: What American city was famous for grunge music? A: Seattle
Q: What is the highest grade of olive oil? A: Extra Virgin
Q: What movie from the 1980's featured a cute little creature named Gizmo? A: Gremlins
Q: What was Thomas Chippendale famous for making? A: Furniture
Q: Which deadly sin was Ebenezer Scrooge most guilty of? A: Greed
Q: What Washington D.C. landmark is shaped like an obelisk? A: Washington Monument
Q: What product do Trappist monks in Belgium and the Netherlands famously sell? A: Beer
Q: What type of crystal is used to keep time in most modern clocks and watches? A: Quartz
Q: "Which Hindu god is the ""destroyer of worlds""?" A: Shiva
Q: What was Scrooge's first name? A: Ebenezer
Q: What was Geri Halliwell's alter-ego as part of the Spice Girls? A: Ginger Spice
Q: If a birdie is one under par, what is two under par? A: Eagle
Q: On a ship, what is the opposite of the stern? A: Bow
Q: "If someone is ""Cornish"", what English peninsula do they hail from?" A: Cornwall
Q: What dangerous type of horse race involves jumping over various fences and ditches? A: Steeplechase
Q: What Chinese dish is a major cause of the world's declining shark population? A: Shark Fin Soup
Q: "What type of liquor is also known as ""white lightning""?" A: Moonshine
Q: What country does the band AC/DC come from? A: Australia
Q: What disease did Cujo have? A: Rabies
Q: Who was born in Kentucky, grew up in Indiana, started his career in Illinois, and died in Washington D.C? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: What is the heaviest type of snake? A: Green Anaconda
Q: What are the first five prime numbers, in order? A: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11
Q: Courvoisier is a type of what liquor? A: Cognac
Q: What is the most popular religion in India? A: Hinduism
Q: What company dominates the diamond industry? A: De Beers
Q: In what country is Angkor Wat located? A: Cambodia
Q: Jacob, Edward, and Bella are characters from what series? A: Twilight
Q: What is Dwayne Johnson better known as? A: The Rock
Q: Who impersonated Sarah Palin on ? A: Tina Fey
Q: What gift is traditionally given on a 25th wedding anniversary? A: Silver
Q: Bafana Bafana is the name of what country's national soccer team? A: South Africa
Q: What national animal of Australia is the third-largest type of bird? A: Emu
Q: "What race is called ""The Run for the Roses""?" A: The Kentucky Derby
Q: In what year did Prohibition end? A: 1933
Q: What musical group was caught lip-synching in 1989? A: Milli Vanilli
Q: Haight and Ashbury are streets in what city? A: San Francisco
Q: Who was the first Christian emperor of Rome? A: Constantine
Q: What is the name for the period between Ash Wednesday and Easter? A: Lent
Q: What city is the de-facto capital of the European Union? A: Brussels
Q: What comes next after Alfa, Bravo, and Charlie? A: Delta
Q: "What is the name of the good witch in ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: Glinda
Q: What is the biggest type of penguin? A: Emperor Penguin
Q: What is the most famous island in French Polynesia? A: Tahiti
Q: "What type of animation was used to make ""Gumby"" and ""Wallace & Gromit""?" A: Claymation
Q: What animal is the closest relative of the bonobo? A: Chimpanzee
Q: """The Butter Battle Book"" by Dr. Seuss was a commentary on what real-life ""war""?" A: Cold War
Q: Bituminous and anthracite are types of what? A: Coal
Q: "What city's tallest building is ""The Shard"", completed in 2012?" A: London
Q: What animal is generally considered to be the holiest animal in Hinduism? A: Cow
Q: "According to Shakespeare, who was told to ""beware the Ides of March""?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: "What constellation has a ""belt"" of three bright stars?" A: Orion
Q: "Who sang ""I Believe I Can Fly""?" A: R. Kelly
Q: Besides coffee, what goes into an affogato? A: Ice Cream
Q: "What is a book of the Bible, a girl's name, or a word that means ""mercy""?" A: Ruth
Q: "According to Winston Churchill, what organization's traditions were ""rum, sodomy, and the lash""?" A: The Royal Navy
Q: What is the female version of a bar mitzvah? A: Bat Mitzvah
Q: In the Bible, Jesus raised three people from the dead. Who was the only one that had a name? A: Lazarus
Q: "What is the common English translation of Descartes' famous statement ""Cogito Ergo Sum""?" A: I think, therefore I am
Q: Which chemical element is prominently used in laptop batteries and antidepressant medication? A: Lithium
Q: What series of video games takes place in the mythical land of Hyrule? A: The Legend of Zelda
Q: Which Protestant denomination has the most members in the U.S.? A: Southern Baptist
Q: "Who popularized the ""moonwalk"" dance?" A: Michael Jackson
Q: During which holiday do Jews refrain from eating leavened bread? A: Passover
Q: Who was Cher's first husband? A: Sonny Bono
Q: What are Charizard, Slowpoke, and Mewtwo? A: Pokmon
Q: "Who had ""a corn cob pipe and a button nose, and two eyes made of coal""?" A: Frosty the Snowman
Q: What diseased killed 775 people in 2002-2003, mostly in Hong Kong and southern China? A: SARS
Q: "Who wrote ""The Hunchback of Notre Dame""?" A: Victor Hugo
Q: "What type of bird is it bad luck for sailors to kill, according to ""The Rime of the Ancient Mariner""?" A: Albatross
Q: What is the second biggest city in Switzerland? A: Geneva
Q: Cabo San Lucas can be found on the southern tip of what peninsula? A: Baja California
Q: What controversial biofuel constitutes 8% of the U.S. gasoline supply (as of 2009)? A: Ethanol
Q: What code is named after the inventor of the telegraph? A: Morse Code
Q: What iconic Paris cathedral was completed in 1345? A: Notre Dame de Paris
Q: "What novel, by Helen Fielding, is a modern-day retelling of ""Pride and Prejudice""?" A: Bridget Jones's Diary
Q: What did Pablo Escobar get rich from selling? A: Cocaine
Q: What is the term for a word, such as frenemy, that is created by merging two other words? A: Portmanteau
Q: What is Ted Kaczynski better known as? A: The Unabomber
Q: "What hairstyle has been described as ""business in front, party in back""?" A: Mullet
Q: What atmospheric layer is damaged by chlorofluorocarbons? A: Ozone Layer
Q: "What is the common English word for a ""synchronous diaphragmatic flutter""?" A: Hiccup
Q: Which U.S. state is, technically speaking, the farthest east? A: Alaska
Q: Who is credited with writing most of the Bible book of Psalms? A: King David
Q: "In what country is it common for ""salarymen"" to stay at ""capsule hotels""?" A: Japan
Q: "Who originally recorded the song ""Respect""?" A: Otis Redding
Q: "The musical ""West Side Story"" was a modern retelling of what classic play?" A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: What is the biggest city where the Wu dialect is spoken? A: Shanghai
Q: What common celebratory gesture was invented by American athletes in the late 1970's? A: High Five
Q: "What famous author wrote many plays but just one novel, ""The Picture of Dorian Gray""?" A: Oscar Wilde
Q: The V2 and Saturn V were types of what? A: Rockets
Q: "What best-selling book was orginally a work of ""Twilight"" fan fiction?" A: Fifty Shades of Grey
Q: Who was on the cover of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue in both 2012 and 2013? A: Kate Upton
Q: What did Jack trade for magic beans? A: Cow
Q: What was the profession of Jesus's father Joseph? A: Carpenter
Q: What legendary character turned everything he touched to gold? A: Midas
Q: What city has Muslim, Christian, Jewish, and Armenian Quarters? A: Jerusalem
Q: What is the best-selling soda in the U.S. that is not made by Pepsi or Coke? A: Dr Pepper
Q: Citrine and amethyst are forms of what mineral? A: Quartz
Q: "If a person is ""juicing"" what drug are they taking?" A: Anabolic Steroids
Q: "If Paul McCartney is ""Ivory"", who is ""Ebony"" in the 1982 chart-topping song?" A: Stevie Wonder
Q: Whose wives included Aisha, Safiyya, and Sawda? A: Mohammed
Q: What did the U.S. buy from Russia for 2 cents an acre? A: Alaska
Q: In what country did Sandinistas battle Contras in the 1980's? A: Nicaragua
Q: "What city was once called ""The Paris of the Middle East"" before a civil war began in 1975?" A: Beirut
Q: "What city is also called ""Nola"" and ""The Big Easy""?" A: New Orleans
Q: What sport's highest rank is Yokozuna? A: Sumo
Q: What animal's scientific name is Ursus Maritimus? A: Polar Bear
Q: What biblical king had 700 wives and 300 concubines? A: King Solomon
Q: In what country would you find Mt. Pinatubo, whose 1991 eruption was the largest in the last hundred years? A: Philippines
Q: "Who wrote the musical ""Cats""?" A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: "What company is famous for producing ""elevator music""?" A: Muzak
Q: "What rapper's song, ""Lollipop"", is the best selling ringtone of all time?" A: Lil Wayne
Q: "What party game, released by Milton Bradley in 1966, was called ""sex in a box""?" A: Twister
Q: Who is Linus Van Pelt's sister? A: Lucy
Q: What type of cloud becomes a tornado if it touches the ground? A: Funnel Cloud
Q: Complete the analogy: Superman is to Daily Planet as Spider-Man is to .... A: Daily Bugle
Q: What TV host has popularized the pseudoscience of Deepak Chopra and Dr. Oz? A: Oprah Winfrey
Q: What chemical element makes the surface of Mars appear red? A: Iron
Q: Whose embalmed body has been viewed millions of times since his death in 1924? A: V.I. Lenin
Q: "Who broke baseball's ""color barrier"" in 1947?" A: Jackie Robinson
Q: "What city's ""Hanging Gardens"" were a Wonder of the World? (although they may have never existed)" A: Babylon
Q: Who married Tommy Lee and Kid Rock? A: Pamela Anderson
Q: What is the name of the friendly ghost? A: Casper
Q: "What artist's New York studio was called ""The Factory""?" A: Andy Warhol
Q: What brand of perfume by Calvin Klein attracts jaguars and other large cats? A: Obsession
Q: If one makes a Faustian bargain, who do they bargain with? A: The Devil
Q: What well-know dinosaur is a close relative of the apatosaurus? A: Brontosaurus
Q: "What punk rockers sang ""God Save the Queen""?" A: The Sex Pistols
Q: Complete the quote: A man, a plan, a canal, ... A: Panama!
Q: What is the biggest city in Catalonia? A: Barcelona
Q: "Who wrote ""The Fall of the House of Usher""?" A: Edgar Allan Poe
Q: "In notherneast Australia, what large bird are people advised to be ""wary"" of?" A: Cassowary
Q: What is the name of a Latin American dictator or a gay neighborhood in San Francisco? A: Castro
Q: What city were Cato, Scipio, and Crassus from? A: Rome
Q: What is the most famous anatomy textbook of all time? A: Gray's Anatomy
Q: The Grand Banks can be found off the coast of what country? A: Canada
Q: Who can issue an decree known as a bull? A: The Pope
Q: What does a Cochlear implant help a person do? A: Hear
Q: What female sleuth sometimes works with the Hardy Boys? A: Nancy Drew
Q: What are Ursa Major, Andromeda, and Crux? A: Constellations
Q: In the U.S., what group of rights include the right to remain silent and the right to an attorney? A: Miranda Rights
Q: What is the medical name for the windpipe? A: Trachea
Q: What South African paralympian shot and killed his girlfriend? A: Oscar Pistorious
Q: What city has hosted the Summer Olympics three different times? A: London
Q: What country did the U.S. support in its war against Iran in the 1980's? A: Iraq
Q: "What book does the phrase ""Who is John Galt"" come from?" A: Atlas Shrugged
Q: What two-letter mantra is often uttered at yoga studios? A: Om
Q: What animal do Buffalo Wings come from? A: Chicken
Q: "What team was ""guaranteed"" to win Super Bowl III?" A: New York Jets
Q: "What animal is the ""most dangerous game""?" A: Man
Q: "Who supposedly said ""let them eat cake""?" A: Marie Antoinette
Q: In 1989, Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa against what famous writer? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: What is the English name of Mdecins Sans Frontires? A: Doctors Without Borders
Q: Who played Frodo in ? A: Elijah Wood
Q: What was the former name of Istanbul? A: Constantinople
Q: Charmander, Bulbasaur and Squirtle are types of what? A: Pokemon
Q: What board game's original mascot was Rich Uncle Pennybags? A: Monopoly
Q: "What novel begins ""Call Me Ishmael""?" A: Moby Dick
Q: Who is Jon Voight's daughter? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: What is the capital of Saskatchewan? A: Regina
Q: What cruel sport was outlawed in the Spanish region of Catalonia in 2010? A: Bullfighting
Q: In music what is the opposite of legato? A: Staccato
Q: "Who wrote the music to ""Ode to Joy""?" A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: "Whose famous ""last theorem"" was proposed in 1637 and finally proved in 1995?" A: Pierre de Fermat
Q: Whose castle is located at the center of Walt Disney World? A: Cinderella's
Q: "What illegal online marketplace was operated by ""Dread Pirate Roberts""?" A: Silk Road
Q: What spends part of its life cycle inside a chrysalis? A: Butterfly
Q: What actor has portrayed Sherlock Holmes, Alan Turing, and Khan? A: Benedict Cumberbatch
Q: What did the Winklevoss twins try to take credit for creating? A: Facebook
Q: What species did Jane Goodall observe? A: Chimpanzees
Q: "Whose fairy tale ""The Snow Queen"" was the inspiration for the movie ""Frozen""?" A: Hans Christian Andersen
Q: If I need to raise shekels to win election to the Knesset, which country am I in? A: Israel
Q: What animal has suffered from colony collapse disorder? A: Bees
Q: "What are outlawed in the novel ""Fahrenheit 451""?" A: Books
Q: Who chose his rap name, Childish Gambino, using an online Wu-Tang Clan name generator? A: Donald Glover
Q: What city's mayor, Rob Ford, admitted to smoking crack while in a drunken stupor? A: Toronto
Q: What is the term for person who doesn't believe in God but also doesn't deny his existence? A: Agnostic
Q: What wife of an Asian dictator famously owned more than 1,000 pairs of shoes? A: Imelda Marcos
Q: What Roald Dahl story was about a genius girl with telekinesis? A: Matilda
Q: What film festival is held in a Utah ski town? A: Sundance
Q: What is the term for two stars that orbit around each other? A: Binary Star
Q: "What are to the left of me in the song ""Stuck in the Middle With You""?" A: Clowns
Q: What is Adderall used to treat? A: ADHD
Q: What do Steinway and Sons make? A: Pianos
Q: What is the name for a type of atmospheric gas that lets in more energy than it lets out? A: Greenhouse Gas
Q: What country does the name Pdraig come from? A: Ireland
Q: What, besides water and barley, was the only ingredient that was allowed in Bavarian beer? A: Hops
Q: What city is known as Praha in its own language? A: Prague
Q: What does one call a member of the Society of Jesus? A: a Jesuit
Q: What musical features the character Mr. Mistoffelees? A: Cats
Q: "What type of animals were the subject of the movie ""Happy Feet""?" A: Penguins
Q: What by any other name would smell as sweet? A: A Rose
Q: Who is the Princess of the Mushroom Kingdom? A: Princess Peach
Q: What Canadian dish is made with french fries, gravy, and cheese curds? A: Poutine
Q: What is the north Pacific equivalent of a hurricane? A: Typhoon
Q: What unit of distance is approximately 6 trillion miles? A: Light Year
Q: In what city would you find Notting Hill? A: London
Q: What beverage was originally flavored with sassafras? A: Root Beer
Q: What country was Nubia's northern neighbor? A: Egypt
Q: What island did Mr. Miyagi come from? A: Okinawa
Q: "Who wrote the violin concertos ""The Four Seasons""?" A: Antonio Vivaldi
Q: What is the name of a type of whale and also a type of sturgeon? A: Beluga
Q: "What organization owned a ship called ""The Rainbow Warrior"" that protested nuclear testing?" A: Greenpeace
Q: What car company was founded by Elon Musk? A: Tesla
Q: What type of bombshell were Jean Harlow and Marilyn Monroe? A: Blonde Bombshell
Q: What's the term for the first episode of a TV series? A: Pilot
Q: In what country were 276 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram? A: Nigeria
Q: What type of museum is the tourist trap Madame Tussauds? A: Wax Museum
Q: What Roman god had two faces and is the namesake of the month of January? A: Janus
Q: "What rapper got his start in the Canadian teen drama ""Degrassi: The Next Generation""?" A: Drake
Q: "What does the Spanish word ""barrio"" mean?" A: Neighborhood
Q: Who rules in a plutocracy? A: The Wealthy
Q: What is caused by a rhinovirus? A: The Common Cold
Q: "What brothers compiled fairy tales including ""Cinderella"" and ""Rumpelstiltskin""?" A: Brothers Grimm
Q: What was the profession of Pablo Neruda and William Carlos Williams? A: Poet
Q: In what country would you find the world's largest stadium, Rungrado 1st of May Stadium? A: North Korea
Q: What school of art was invented by Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque? A: Cubism
Q: What other knighted actor has appeared in many viral photographs with Sir Ian McKellen? A: Sir Patrick Stewart
Q: British musicians call it a semiquaver. What do American musicians call it? A: 16th Note
Q: What soccer player has bitten three others, most recently at the 2014 World Cup? A: Luis Surez
Q: What part of the body produces Vitamin D? A: Skin
Q: What sport takes place in a velodrome? A: Track Cycling
Q: What is the smallest country that is believed to possess nuclear weapons? A: Israel
Q: "Who famously said ""Don't have a cow, man""?" A: Bart Simpson
Q: In what city would you find the headquarters to the provocative Charlie Hebdo magazine? A: Paris
Q: "What hip hop group had a ""License to Ill""?" A: Beastie Boys
Q: What ethnic group was the victim of genocide in Rwanda? A: The Tutsis
Q: What does the Be represent in the portmanteau Benelux? A: Belgium
Q: "What are ""Homme by David Beckham"", ""Someday by Justin Bieber"", and ""White Diamonds by Elizabeth Taylor""?" A: Fragrances
Q: Where is the hippocampus located? A: In the Brain
Q: What did the Russian dog Laika become the first animal to do, in 1957? A: Orbit the Earth
Q: What city in Oceania was devastated by an earthquake in 2011? A: Christchurch
Q: What made the slide rule obsolete? A: Calculators
Q: What Irish airline proposed charging passengers to use the bathroom? A: Ryanair
Q: What type of insulation can cause lung cancer and mesothelioma? A: Asbestos
Q: If you can travel from Luxor to Venice to New York in less than 30 minutes, which city are you in? A: Las Vegas
Q: Who did King Oedipus marry? A: His Mother
Q: What is term for the Indian religious belief that the soul will enter a new body after death? A: Reincarnation
Q: What's the capital of North Korea? A: Pyongyang
Q: What part of the body is affected by cirrhosis? A: The Liver
Q: What is measured in Scoville units? A: Spiciness
Q: The Inverted Jenny depicts an upside down plane and is worth almost a million dollars. What is it? A: a Stamp
Q: What great ape can only be found in Indonesia and Malaysia? A: Orangutans
Q: "Who wrote ""A Midsummer Night's Dream""?" A: William Shakespeare
Q: "What language does the word ""futon"" come from originally?" A: Japanese
Q: What type of pie is made with ground lamb and mashed potatoes? A: Shepherd's Pie
Q: What species of deer is commonly found north of the Arctic Circle? A: Reindeer
Q: What type of person is also called a dick, shamus, or gumshoe? A: Detective
Q: What part of a human cell has its own DNA - separate from human DNA? A: Mitochondria
Q: During what dance do you put your left foot in, your left foot out, and shake it all about? A: Hokey Pokey
Q: What is usually the largest muscle in the human body? A: Gluteus Maximus
Q: In calculus, what is the opposite of a derivative? A: Integral
Q: Who had a child with Kurt Cobain? A: Courtney Love
Q: "What popular salad dressing tastes like the ""secret sauce"" on a Big Mac?" A: Thousand Island
Q: What island was the center of Minoan civilization? A: Crete
Q: According the song, what gift is given on the 12th day of Christmas? A: 12 Drummers Drumming
Q: What company makes the Android operating system? A: Google
Q: What nation is scheduled to host the 2022 World Cup? A: Qatar
Q: What is the largest Native American tribe in the United States? A: Cherokee
Q: What is the smallest type of bird? A: Bee Hummingbird
Q: What martial art could be described as Brazilian dance-fighting? A: Capoeira
Q: Who is Hannah Montana's alter ego? A: Miley Stewart
Q: Count Dracula was based on which real-life person? A: Vlad the Impaler
Q: What day comes after Fat Tuesday? A: Ash Wednesday
Q: What city is closest to Alcatraz island? A: San Francisco
Q: What type of eggs does Sam-I-Am want you to eat? A: Green Eggs
Q: What is the name for the process of heating milk to lengthen its shelf life? A: Pasteurization
Q: What company was co-founded by Steve Wozniak? A: Apple
Q: What career did Adolf Hitler pursue before getting into politics? A: Painting
Q: What does a misanthrope hate? A: People
Q: What book's characters included two pigs named Napoleon and Snowball? A: Animal Farm
Q: What is the closest relative of the damselfly? A: Dragonfly
Q: What breed of dog does Queen Elizabeth II famously own? A: Corgis
Q: "What genre of music was prominently featured in the movie ""Saturday Night Fever""?" A: Disco
Q: What commodity represents over 40% of the tonnage shipped on American freight trains? A: Coal
Q: What was Van Gogh's first name? A: Vincent
Q: During which Catholic service would one receive a wafer? A: Eucharist
Q: What term is used to describe strong winds between 50 and 102 kilometers per hour? A: Gale
Q: What notorious Milwaukee serial killer was known for eating his victims? A: Jeffrey Dahmer
Q: What dye is traditionally used to make temporary tattoos in India, the Middle East, and North Africa? A: Henna
Q: What band performed a song about a deaf, dumb, and blind kid who played a mean pin ball? A: The Who
Q: What British political party is also known as the Tories? A: The Conservative Party
Q: What operating system has versions called Ice Cream Sandwich, Jelly Bean, and Lollipop? A: Android
Q: "What condition can be described as ""cloudiness"" of the eye lens?" A: Cataracts
Q: What beings come from the planet Cybertron? A: Transformers
Q: What rapper had 12 studio albums - 6 of them posthumous? A: Tupac Shakur
Q: What Christian holiday comes the day after Halloween? A: All Saints' Day
Q: What is Rogaine meant to treat? A: Baldness
Q: What weapon did Lizzie Borden allegedly use to kill her parents? A: Axe
Q: What are the Hugo and Nebula awards given for? A: Science Fiction Writing
Q: What is the most commonly spoken first language in Singapore? A: Mandarin Chinese
Q: In 1727, Janet Horne became the last British person to be executed for what crime? A: Witchcraft
Q: What band's members included Brian, Carl, and Dennis Wilson? A: The Beach Boys
Q: What theorem is often expressed as a A: Pythagorean Theorem
Q: What type of crab is known for using the discarded shells of other sea creatures? A: Hermit Crab
Q: What is the name for a creature that is half man, half horse? A: Centaur
Q: What country had a Civil War in the 1930's? A: Spain
Q: "What composer's ""Messiah"" is frequently performed during the Christmas season?" A: George Frideric Handel
Q: What country's last monarch was Queen Liliuokalani? A: Hawaii
Q: What was visited by Viking, Pathfinder, and Curiosity? A: Mars
Q: What plant contains the chemical THC? A: Cannabis
Q: Which country is Easter Island a territory of? A: Chile
Q: Who famously stood over a subway grate while wearing a billowy white dress? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What American sporting event was struck by a terrorist bomb in 2013? A: The Boston Marathon
Q: What is legally classified as a religion in the United States, a cult in France, and a business in Switzerland? A: Scientology
Q: Through what European city do 84% of the world's diamonds pass? A: Antwerp
Q: Who did Jack Ruby assassinate in 1963 in Dallas? A: Lee Harvey Oswald
Q: What is the world's most famous outlaw motorcycle club? A: Hell's Angels
Q: "What material can be ""vulcanized""?" A: Rubber
Q: What girl group had eight #1 hits in the UK between 1996 and 1998? A: The Spice Girls
Q: What type of books are eligible to receive a Newbery Medal? A: Children's Books
Q: What city is known for pastries, coffee, and classical music? A: Vienna
Q: What is played at Roland Garros? A: Tennis
Q: What is Zeno known for creating? A: Paradoxes
Q: In the show Doctor Who, what does the Doctor's time machine look like from the outside? A: Police Box
Q: What ancient city was located near present-day Tunis? A: Carthage
Q: What is the name for a system of law based on Islamic texts? A: Sharia
Q: What type of creature was Gimli? A: Dwarf
Q: "What was the sequel to the movie ""Grumpy Old Men""?" A: Grumpier Old Men
Q: What tiny creatures form the diet of the world's largest creature, the blue whale? A: Krill
Q: A tendon connects a muscle to a bone. What similar tissue connects two bones? A: Ligament
Q: What animal went extinct around 2000 B.C. on Wrangel Island in Siberia? A: Woolly Mammoths
Q: In an orthodox Jewish service what group of people commonly sit in the balcony? A: Women
Q: What city will host the 2020 Summer Olympics? A: Tokyo
Q: What HBO TV series is the most pirated show of all time? A: Game of Thrones
Q: What book featured the characters Scout Finch and Boo Radley? A: To Kill a Mockingbird
Q: What, according to Monty Python, does nobody expect? A: The Spanish Inquisition
Q: What will be made at the Tesla Gigafactory? A: Batteries
Q: What Shakespeare play featured a fairy named Oberon? A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: "What is ""pinched"" by a pince nez?" A: Nose
Q: What city was blockaded by the Soviets in 1948, forcing other countries to airlift in supplies? A: West Berlin
Q: What river was named after a race of female warriors from Greek mythology? A: Amazon
Q: "What character first appeared in ""A Study in Scarlet""?" A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What object have both Naomi Campbell and Russell Crowe used to assault people? A: Telephone
Q: In terms of nuclear energy, what might be considered the opposite of fusion? A: Fission
Q: "Who wrote ""Pride and Prejudice""?" A: Jane Austen
Q: What city hosted the Winter Olympics in 2014? A: Sochi
Q: Whose Fortress of Solitude can be found near the North Pole? A: Superman's
Q: Who founded cities in Egypt, Afghanistan, Turkey, and several other countries? A: Alexander the Great
Q: What type of animal is a shell-less gastropod? A: Slug
Q: What is the least diverse country in the world, with 99.998% of people coming from the same ethnic group? A: North Korea
Q: What is Buckminster Fuller famous for designing? A: Geodesic Domes
Q: What drug did the British grow in India and sell in China? A: Opium
Q: "What field of study is called ""the dismal science""?" A: Economics
Q: "What type of ""languages"" are Ruby and Perl?" A: Programming Language
Q: "What is the meaning of the French word ""gras""? Hint: think of Mardi Gras or Foie Gras" A: Fat
Q: What wedding payment is common in India despite being illegal? A: Dowries
Q: "On what TV show would you see Daleks saying ""exterminate""?" A: Doctor Who
Q: What did Matthew Webb become the first person to swim across, in 1875? A: The English Channel
Q: "In what activity might one attempt a ""Sicilian Defense""?" A: Chess
Q: Who followed a white rabbit down a hole? A: Alice
Q: What city was home to the largest library in the ancient world? A: Alexandria
Q: What is either a chess piece or a religious leader? A: Bishop
Q: What shape is a tipi? A: Cone
Q: In the electromagnetic spectrum, what type of waves are more energetic than X-Rays? A: Gamma Rays
Q: What comes next in this sequence: million, billion, trillion? A: Quadrillion
Q: What ancient Greek sculpture has famously lost her arms? A: Venus de Milo
Q: Whose chocolate factory did Charlie Bucket visit? A: Willy Wonka's
Q: What country is geographically closest to Australia? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: What type of bird resembles a large crow? A: Raven
Q: "What event's results were predicted by a ""psychic"" octopus?" A: 2010 FIFA World Cup
Q: What has a moon named Charon? A: Pluto
Q: What country contains most of the Ganges river delta? A: Bangladesh
Q: What were German submarines called in WWII? A: U-boats
Q: What group of concertos by Vivaldi is composed of La Primavera, L'estate, L'autunno, and L'inverno? A: The Four Seasons
Q: "Whose law states that ""anything that can go wrong will go wrong""?" A: Murphy's
Q: What brutal leader of the Lord's Resistance Army was featured in a 2012 viral video? A: Joseph Kony
Q: Who is credited with ridding Ireland of snakes, despite there being no record of snakes ever existing there? A: Saint Patrick
Q: What overtook Internet Explorer to become the world's most popular web browser in 2012? A: Chrome
Q: "Who piloted the ""Spirit of St. Louis""?" A: Charles Lindbergh
Q: What Incan city's ruins were unknown to the outside world until 1911? A: Machu Picchu
Q: What is the only country of the world that has an emperor? A: Japan
Q: What unit of time is 1/1000th of a microsecond? A: Nanosecond
Q: "Who is ""able to leap tall buildings in a single bound""?" A: Superman
Q: What is the last name of sisters Kourtney and Khloe? A: Kardashian
Q: What is the name of Dorothy's dog in A: Toto
Q: Who was Queen Victoria's husband? A: Prince Albert
Q: What animal causes lyme disease? A: Tick
Q: According to the Bible, what town was Jesus born in? A: Bethlehem
Q: What is the second most common language in the United States? A: Spanish
Q: What country is Tasmania a part of? A: Australia
Q: Matzo is traditionally eaten during what holiday? A: Passover
Q: Geronimo was a member of what Native American tribe? A: Apache
Q: What is the Italian version of ice cream? A: Gelato
Q: What sport does a coxswain participate in? A: Rowing
Q: Who was the subject of two recent biographical movies, one starring Ashton Kutcher and the other starring Michael Fassbender? A: Steve Jobs
Q: In what song did Jimmy Buffett search for his lost shaker of salt? A: Margaritaville
Q: What city's Dharavi slum has a population of about 700,000 in less than one square mile? A: Mumbai
Q: "What type of ray fish can have a ""wingspan"" of up to 7 meters?" A: Manta Ray
Q: What did the temperance movement seek to ban? A: Alcohol
Q: Who is Arkham Asylum's most famous resident? A: The Joker
Q: What fictional character invented Everlasting Gobstoppers? A: Willy Wonka
Q: What country's army was commonly called the Red Army? A: Soviet Union
Q: What is the French word for snail? A: Escargot
Q: What seed, commonly found on muffins and bagels, can cause one to fail a drug test? A: Poppyseeds
Q: What is the name of the fairy who helped Peter Pan? A: Tinker Bell
Q: What is a polygraph test more commonly known as? A: Lie Detector Test
Q: Who was born on the island of Corsica, exiled to the island of Elba, and died on the island of St. Helena? A: Napoleon Bonaparte
Q: What is aioli very similar to? A: Mayonnaise
Q: "What war was the subject of ""The Iliad""?" A: Trojan War
Q: What would one do at Pebble Beach or Saint Andrews? A: Golf
Q: What personality disorder is characterized by destructive excitement seeking and a lack of empathy? A: Psychopathy
Q: "What delta do ""Delta Blues"" come from?" A: Mississippi Delta
Q: What country was occupied by Spain, the United States, and Japan before becoming independent? A: Philippines
Q: What aquatic flower is sacred to Buddhism and Hinduism? A: Lotus
Q: "Who sang ""My Way""? (the most famous version)" A: Frank Sinatra
Q: "Who directed the movies ""Vertigo"" and ""The Birds""?" A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: In what lake did the SS Edmund Fitzgerald sink? A: Lake Superior
Q: "What company acquired the rights to the ""Star Wars"" franchise in 2012?" A: Walt Disney
Q: What game is sometimes called roshambo? A: Rock-Paper-Scissors
Q: What language were Gutenberg's bibles written in? A: Latin
Q: "What musical instrument did the devil play in the song ""The Devil Went Down to Georgia""?" A: Fiddle
Q: "In what London park would one find ""Speakers' Corner""?" A: Hyde Park
Q: What are the two countries of the world that are theocracies? A: Iran
Q: What former British coin was worth 12 pence? A: Shilling
Q: "What anatomical feature did velociraptors have in real life, but not in ""Jurassic Park""?" A: Feathers
Q: What type of animal has spermaceti in its head? A: Sperm Whale
Q: What is the northernmost country where tigers are found in the wild? A: Russia
Q: "What activity is known as ""Lucha Libre"" in Mexico?" A: Professional Wrestling
Q: What is the capital of Tunisia? A: Tunis
Q: What shark species has the highest number of *recorded* attacks on humans? A: Great White
Q: "What movie character famously said ""wax on, wax off""?" A: Mr. Miyagi
Q: Complete the song lyric: I am the very model of a modern major _______. A: General
Q: What German sportswear company has a mountain lion as its logo? A: Puma
Q: What feature of Jupiter is a storm that has lasted for centuries and has a bigger diameter than planet Earth? A: Great Red Spot
Q: What movie starring Frank Sinatra was later remade starring George Clooney? A: Ocean's 11
Q: What is the world's most famous cycling event? A: Tour de France
Q: Who made a cameo appearance in 39 movies directed by Alfred Hitchcock? A: Alfred Hitchcock
Q: What was the worst nuclear accident of all time? A: Chernobyl
Q: What is the second biggest city in Australia? A: Melbourne
Q: "Who directed the movie ""Jaws""?" A: Steven Spielberg
Q: What style of facial hair was famously worn by American Civil War general Ambrose Burnside? A: Sideburns
Q: What disease caused the deaths of Freddie Mercury, Liberace, and Arthur Ashe? A: AIDS
Q: What movie villain once ate a man's liver with some fava beans and a nice chianti? A: Hannibal Lecter
Q: What holiday was first celebrated on April 22, 1970? A: Earth Day
Q: Genghis Khan had thousands of grandsons. Which one is the best known? A: Kublai Khan
Q: What is black sausage made from? A: Blood
Q: Who was famously born in Stratford-upon-Avon? A: William Shakespeare
Q: Who is Sherlock Holmes's sidekick? A: Dr. John Watson
Q: What was first seen at Lowell Observatory in 1930? A: Pluto
Q: What unit of currency can be divided into 100 kopeks? A: Ruble
Q: "Who were known as the ""Fab Four""?" A: The Beatles
Q: In what country would you find a kibbutz? A: Israel
Q: "What inspirational teacher movie featured the Coolio song ""Gangsta's Paradise""?" A: Dangerous Minds
Q: "Who composed ""Ride of the Valkyries""?" A: Richard Wagner
Q: "What bisexual English poet wrote ""Don Juan"" and ""She Walks in Beauty""?" A: Lord Byron
Q: "What is a common word that means ""tempest""?" A: Storm
Q: What pope, who died in 2005, was the second longest-serving pope of all time? A: John Paul II
Q: What werewolf movie starred Michael J. Fox? A: Teen Wolf
Q: What syndrome causes motor tics, and in 10% of cases, can cause compulsive cursing? A: Tourette Syndrome
Q: What famous guitar player called himself a voodoo child? A: Jimi Hendrix
Q: Who was Castor's twin brother? A: Pollux
Q: What is the second largest object that orbits the Earth? A: International Space Station
Q: What type of boat, popular in Cambridge, is propelled by pushing a pole against the bottom of the river? A: Punt
Q: What instrument is like a trumpet but doesn't have any valves to change the pitch? A: Bugle
Q: "What UN agency designates ""World Heritage"" sites?" A: UNESCO
Q: What country's population peaked at around 128 million in 2010? A: Japan
Q: What type of machine is also known as a one-armed bandit? A: Slot Machine
Q: What country does Hagen-Dazs ice cream come from? A: United States
Q: What fictional barbarian was portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger? A: Conan
Q: "What Barry Manilow song was about a club that was the ""hottest spot north of Havana""?" A: Copacabana
Q: What would you find in an ossuary? A: Bones
Q: "In what U.S. city would you be most likely to hear ""When the Saints Go Marching In""?" A: New Orleans
Q: "What are the first five words of a ""Hail Mary"" prayer?" A: Hail Mary, full of grace
Q: What is the Taj Mahal made of? A: Marble
Q: What mosquito-borne virus is thought to have caused an increase in children born with microcephaly (small heads)? A: Zika Virus
Q: What street did demon barber Sweeney Todd live on? A: Fleet
Q: What food can Bugs Bunny often be seen eating? A: Carrots
Q: What type of sugar, found in milk, do many people have trouble digesting? A: Lactose
Q: What style of art was exemplefied by Monet and Renoir? A: Impressionism
Q: What prison did Andy Dufresne escape from? A: Shawshank
Q: Who became the first black Formula One driver in 2007? A: Lewis Hamilton
Q: What is the tallest species of land animal? A: Giraffe
Q: What famous London serial killer killed at least 5 people in 1888? A: Jack the Ripper
Q: What was Jesus's crown made of? A: Thorns
Q: "Whose ""uncertainty"" principle states that it is impossible to know both the exact position and the exact momentum of a particle?" A: Werner Heisenberg
Q: "Who played Jack Sparrow in the ""Pirates of the Caribbean"" franchise?" A: Johnny Depp
Q: What weapon is traditionally used as a musical instrument during performances of the 1812 Overture? A: Cannon
Q: The sun is currently a yellow dwarf. What will it become in about 5 billion years? A: Red Giant
Q: What species is General Sherman, the world's heaviest single-trunk tree? A: Giant Sequoia
Q: What vegetable, starting with the letter O, is often used to make gumbo? A: Okra
Q: What Shakespearean king had three daughters: Regan, Goneril and Cordelia? A: King Lear
Q: What movie's main characters are James P. Sullivan and Mike Wazowski? A: Monsters Inc.
Q: What period came before the Jurassic? A: The Triassic
Q: Who was married to both Joe Dimaggio and Arthur Miller? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What is the upper house of the British Parliament? A: House of Lords
Q: In what country did the didgeridoo originate? A: Australia
Q: What Otis Redding song was covered by Aretha Franklin? A: Respect
Q: How many pounds are in a short ton? A: 2000
Q: In what country did the Tamil Tigers fight a civil war? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What Zodiac sign means ram? A: Aries
Q: If you are eating tripe, what are you eating? A: Stomach
Q: Red sky at morning, sailor take what? A: Warning
Q: In a wedding, what is the female equivalent of a ring bearer? A: Flower Girl
Q: "What type of fish is sometimes caught by ""noodling""?" A: Catfish
Q: What Chinese dam, completed in 2008, generates more electricity than any other? A: Three Gorges Dam
Q: In what country would you find Mount Ararat? A: Turkey
Q: What boy band shared its name with a type of Mexican soup? A: Menudo
Q: What is the British name for a bachelor party? A: Stag Night
Q: 250 million years ago, the Earth had one supercontinent. What was it called? A: Pangaea
Q: Pashtuns are the largest ethnic group in what country? A: Afghanistan
Q: How many acres are in a square mile? A: 640
Q: """Big Brother is Watching You"" comes from what novel?" A: Nineteen Eighty-Four
Q: How many keys are found on a typical piano? A: 88
Q: What University's athletes are called the Fighting Irish? A: Notre Dame
Q: Canonization is when a church declares someone to be a what? A: Saint
Q: What is the capital of Ireland? A: Dublin
Q: What is the plural of focus? A: Foci
Q: What jewelry store uses boxes that are robin egg blue? A: Tiffany
Q: What type of weapon is carried by Thor? A: Hammer
Q: Lebanon is closely associated with what type of tree? A: Cedars
Q: What is the American name for Shrove Tuesday? A: Fat Tuesday
Q: What is the southernmost U.S. state? A: Hawaii
Q: What band was formed by brothers Isaac, Taylor, and Zac? A: Hanson
Q: What beverage is made from fermented honey? A: Mead
Q: What person is currently second in line to the British throne? A: Prince William
Q: What country has the most Shia Muslims? A: Iran
Q: In what country would you find Lake Baikal? A: Russia
Q: What is the largest city in Bavaria? A: Munich
Q: What type of hat was famously worn by Jackie Kennedy? A: Pill Box
Q: What is the name of the area where baseball relief pitchers warm up? A: Bullpen
Q: "What city is nicknamed ""Sin City""?" A: Las Vegas
Q: What was Picasso's first name? A: Pablo
Q: What beats 4 of a kind? A: Straight Flush
Q: What country did the United Kingdom fight a war against in 1982? A: Argentina
Q: Which U.S. state did Bill Clinton govern? A: Arkansas
Q: Who had an affair with Queen Guinevere? A: Sir Lancelot
Q: Who is Nicole Kidman's husband? A: Keith Urban
Q: What is both a revolver and a type of malt liquor? A: Colt .45
Q: What Harry Potter character was gay, according to J.K. Rowling? A: Albus Dumbledore
Q: What city has the world's largest aquarium? A: Atlanta
Q: What type of food was famously shared by Lady and the Tramp? A: Spaghetti
Q: What actress was born Norma Jeane Mortenson? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What is the name of Japan's currency? A: Yen
Q: Who was Robin Hood's second in command? A: Little John
Q: What are the first and second rules of Fight Club? A: Do not talk about Fight Club
Q: What is the only metal to be in liquid form when at room temperature? A: Mercury
Q: What was Voldemort's birth name? A: Tom Riddle
Q: was the theme song of what sitcom? A: Cheers
Q: Who is the Roman goddess of love and beauty? A: Venus
Q: Ursine refers to what type of animal? A: Bear
Q: What brand of car is most famously associated with James Bond? A: Aston Martin
Q: Regular American gasoline has what octane rating? A: 87
Q: Who is the leader of the Autobots? A: Optimus Prime
Q: What type of animal appears on a jar of Vlasic pickles? A: Stork
Q: What is the longest running Broadway Show? A: The Phantom of the Opera
Q: What is the name for a male goose? A: Gander
Q: What was Yusef Islam's former name? A: Cat Stevens
Q: Haight-Ashbury is a district of which city? A: San Francisco
Q: Who are the Bronx Bombers? A: New York Yankees
Q: What are the first 5 digits of Pi? A: 3.1415
Q: Who was prime minister of the UK before Churchill? A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: Who resigned as Apple CEO in 2011? A: Steve Jobs
Q: Which country has won the most soccer World Cups? A: Brazil
Q: What do internet retailers call the Monday after Black Friday? A: Cyber Monday
Q: What was the name of King Arthur's sword? A: Excalibur
Q: The mineral pyrite is commonly referred to as what? A: Fool's Gold
Q: What country borders San Marino? A: Italy
Q: What is the world's most famous sled dog race? A: The Iditarod
Q: What volcano destroyed the city of Pompeii? A: Mount Vesuvius
Q: What New Mexico city is associated with a 1947 UFO crash? A: Roswell
Q: What is Vera Wang famous for designing? A: Wedding Dresses
Q: Dr. House is partly inspired by what famous literary character? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: "Who wrote the ""Phantom of the Opera"" musical?" A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: Who built a wall to separate Scotland and England? A: Hadrian
Q: What nut is a typical ingredient in pesto? A: Pine Nut
Q: An archipelago is a group of what? A: Islands
Q: What major fault line runs through California? A: San Andreas Fault
Q: What is the largest type of fruit or vegetable? A: Pumpkin
Q: In what country is Toblerone made? A: Switzerland
Q: In Sharia law, what is the specific punishment for adultery? A: Stoning to Death
Q: What group of people had their capital at Tenochtitlan? A: The Aztecs
Q: What is Siddhartha Gautama better known as? A: Buddha
Q: Who lived at 221B Baker Street? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What is the capital of Tibet? A: Lhasa
Q: If dogs are canine, what are cattle? A: Bovine
Q: "Who sculpted ""The Burghers of Calais""?" A: Auguste Rodin
Q: """Red Dragon"" is a prequel to what movie?" A: The Silence of the Lambs
Q: What well-known animal eats mostly Eucalyptus leaves? A: Koala
Q: What is Ralph Lauren's most famous brand? A: Polo
Q: Why did the chicken cross the road? A: To get to the other side
Q: What is used to kill a werewolf? A: Silver Bullet
Q: What is the opposite of starboard? A: Port
Q: What's the first name of Kate Middleton's sister? A: Pippa
Q: What nation has a rugby team called the All Blacks? A: New Zealand
Q: What country lies directly south of Panama? A: Colombia
Q: What Canadian province is due north of Washington state? A: British Columbia
Q: Which beverage is consumed by the winner of the Indy 500? A: Milk
Q: If you add all the numbers from 1 to 100, what is the sum? A: 5050
Q: What country occupied Ethiopia between 1936 and 1941? A: Italy
Q: What honor ranks above magna cum laude? A: Summa Cum Laude
Q: What sea lies between Britain and Norway? A: North Sea
Q: What is the fastest land animal? A: Cheetah
Q: What is the most common element in the Earth's atmosphere? A: Nitrogen
Q: "The song ""Candle in the Wind"" was dedicated to what actress?" A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: Who was the first Republican president? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: ME, XP and Vista are versions of what product? A: Microsoft Windows
Q: Who is to blame for making Dr. Phil famous? A: Oprah Winfrey
Q: Who is the Lord of the Rings? A: Sauron
Q: Whose hair burst into flames while making a Pepsi commercial? A: Michael Jackson
Q: Kato Kaelin was a houseguest of what celebrity? A: O.J. Simpson
Q: Who did Katy Perry pass to become the most followed person on Twitter? A: Justin Bieber
Q: What U.S. state quarter features a cow, a cheese wheel and an ear of corn? A: Wisconsin
Q: In what country do wild giant pandas live? A: China
Q: Who guaranteed victory in Super Bowl III? A: Joe Namath
Q: What is the address of the British Prime Minister? A: 10 Downing Street
Q: What condiment is sometimes called Japanese horseradish? A: Wasabi
Q: What element has the symbol Au? A: Gold
Q: What is the common name of the mandible? A: Jawbone
Q: Who is the leading English scorer in Champions League history? A: Wayne Rooney
Q: December 7th, 1941 is a date which will live in what? A: Infamy
Q: Where does one buy peanuts and cracker jack? A: The Ball Game
Q: Aragon and Castile joined to form which country? A: Spain
Q: What is 7 parts tequila, 4 parts triple sec and 3 parts lime juice? A: Margarita
Q: What type of fish was Nemo? A: Clownfish
Q: What movie featured the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man? A: Ghostbusters
Q: "Who wrote a book called ""Dreams from my Father""?" A: Barack Obama
Q: What is Garfield's favorite food? A: Lasagna
Q: What is Dihydrogen Monoxide better known as? A: Water
Q: What is Captain Picard's first name? A: Jean-Luc
Q: "What country is ""the land of the rising sun""?" A: Japan
Q: Which ninja turtle uses nunchucks? A: Michelangelo
Q: In what year did the United States celebrate its bicentennial? A: 1976
Q: What is the former name of the Democratic Republic of the Congo? A: Zaire
Q: What major river delta is located in southern Vietnam? A: Mekong
Q: For what crime was Al Capone sent to prison? A: Tax Evasion
Q: The Springboks are the national rugby team of which country? A: South Africa
Q: What is the name of the U.S. Presidential retreat? A: Camp David
Q: Who starred in Alien, Ghostbusters and Avatar? A: Sigourney Weaver
Q: Who betrayed Jesus for thirty pieces of silver? A: Judas Iscariot
Q: Who was the first director of the FBI? A: J. Edgar Hoover
Q: """Scarlett"" was a sequel to what well-known novel?" A: Gone With the Wind
Q: Albert Einstein was offered the presidency of what country? A: Israel
Q: At Hogwarts, Harry Potter is a member of which house? A: Gryffindor
Q: Who was almost totally deaf when he wrote his final symphony? A: Ludwig Van Beethoven
Q: What is the largest state east of the Mississippi (by land area)? A: Georgia
Q: What is the only U.S. state to produce coffee? A: Hawaii
Q: What American won four gold medals at the 1984 Olympics? A: Carl Lewis
Q: Which chemical element has the shortest name? A: Tin
Q: Who wore a dress made of meat? A: Lady Gaga
Q: What is the first name of Prince Charles' wife? A: Camilla
Q: In the Bible, who were Gabriel and Michael? A: Angels
Q: Who had sons named Uday and Qusay? A: Saddam Hussein
Q: What was the name of Thomas Jefferson's house? A: Monticello
Q: What city is most associated with grunge music? A: Seattle
Q: What is the sum of all the numbers on a roulette wheel? A: 666
Q: How many cards in a deck (not including jokers)? A: 52
Q: Where did Peter Pan live? A: Neverland
Q: "According to ""Saturday Night Live"", what country can Sarah Palin see from her house?" A: Russia
Q: What South Park character frequently dies? A: Kenny
Q: Who painted Marilyn Monroe and soup cans? A: Andy Warhol
Q: What country was formerly known as Siam? A: Thailand
Q: In what city did Bruce Lee grow up? A: Hong Kong
Q: What famous mountain pass connects Pakistan and Afghanistan? A: Khyber Pass
Q: What is the first U.S. state, alphabetically? A: Alabama
Q: What is the name of the Japanese mafia? A: Yakuza
Q: What substance was once used to make billiard balls and piano keys? A: Ivory
Q: Prickly pear and saguaro are types of what? A: Cactus
Q: What is the international telephone calling code for the United Kingdom? A: 44
Q: What does a miller make? A: Flour
Q: Vampires are averse to what common food product? A: Garlic
Q: What is the national animal of the United States? A: Bald Eagle
Q: A spoonful of sugar helps the what go down? A: Medicine
Q: Wednesday is associated with which Norse god? A: Odin
Q: Who was Alexander the Great's tutor? A: Aristotle
Q: What is the motto of the U.S. Marines? A: Semper Fidelis
Q: "Which English King was ""mad""?" A: George III
Q: How many consecutive strikes must be rolled to achieve a perfect series in bowling? A: 36
Q: "Who wrote the music to ""West Side Story""?" A: Leonard Bernstein
Q: Who was Lucille Ball's real-life husband, 1940-1960? A: Desi Arnaz
Q: What political party did Tony Blair lead? A: Labour
Q: What is the common term for halitosis? A: Bad Breath
Q: What alcoholic beverage is traditionally consumed at the Kentucky Derby? A: Mint Julep
Q: Technically speaking, who elects the U.S. President? A: Electoral College
Q: What Italian city was once led by a doge? A: Venice
Q: "What famous document starts: ""When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary...""" A: U.S. Declaration of Independence
Q: What canal connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea? A: Suez Canal
Q: Who is the father of Zeus? A: Cronus
Q: In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion does what? A: Sleeps Tonight
Q: What was Princess Diana's maiden name? A: Spencer
Q: What was the first Arab country to recognize Israel? A: Egypt
Q: What human organ is composed of atriums and ventricles? A: Heart
Q: What is the largest city in Wales? A: Cardiff
Q: Which country is also known as Burma? A: Myanmar
Q: Who is the month of July named after? A: Julius Caesar
Q: What is sold at Lloyd's of London? A: Insurance
Q: Wile E. Coyote is an enthusiastic customer of what company? A: Acme
Q: What country is composed of 26 cantons? A: Switzerland
Q: What is the tallest mountain in Africa? A: Kilimanjaro
Q: What is Eminem's real name? A: Marshall Mathers
Q: What's the counterpart of the Tropic of Capricorn? A: Tropic of Cancer
Q: What country controlled Macau prior to 1999? A: Portugal
Q: Where is Queen Elizabeth I buried? A: Westminster Abbey
Q: Who was the second person to walk on the Moon? A: Buzz Aldrin
Q: Who was born as Norma Jeane Mortenson? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What city were the Beatles from? A: Liverpool
Q: Which country was formerly called Ceylon? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What conquistador conquered the Aztecs? A: Hernn Corts
Q: What is the name of Beyonc and Jay-Z's daughter? A: Blue Ivy
Q: What started on September 1, 1939? A: World War II
Q: In what country would you find the town of Marathon? A: Greece
Q: What alien race does Lieutenant Worf belong to? A: Klingon
Q: How many leap years occurred in the 20th century? A: 25
Q: Lombardy is part of what country? A: Italy
Q: Who was Lord Protector of England, 1653-1658? A: Oliver Cromwell
Q: James Buchanan was the only President to never do what? A: Marry
Q: Most of Mesopotamia is in what modern-day country? A: Iraq
Q: What is the name of a receptacle designed to be spat into by tobacco chewers? A: Spittoon
Q: What was Medusa's hair made of? A: Snakes
Q: What silent film star wore the same style mustache as Adolf Hitler? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: The Hindu god Ganesha has the head of what type of animal? A: Elephant
Q: What city is Kowloon a part of? A: Hong Kong
Q: How many teams participated in the 2010 World Cup? A: 32
Q: What is the term for three consecutive strikes in bowling? A: Turkey
Q: What type of animal appeared on King Richard's coat of arms? A: Lion
Q: Golda Meir was the Prime Minister of what country? A: Israel
Q: What country did the Taliban rule from 1996-2001? A: Afghanistan
Q: What taxonomic rank comes above phylum? A: Kingdom
Q: What was the name of New York City, prior to 1665? A: New Amsterdam
Q: In what country did the Bay of Pigs invasion take place? A: Cuba
Q: "Who narrated the British version of ""Planet Earth""?" A: David Attenborough
Q: What Italian car company owns the most successful Formula One team of all time? A: Ferrari
Q: Whose face launched a thousand ships? A: Helen's
Q: Among mammals, what species has the highest total biomass. (The sum of the weight of the entire population of the species) A: Cattle
Q: Who was Little Red Riding Hood's adversary? A: The Big Bad Wolf
Q: West Texas Intermediate and London Brent are grades of what? A: Crude Oil
Q: What country is home to Coptic Christians? A: Egypt
Q: On what river does the city formerly known as Stalingrad lie? A: Volga
Q: What type of eyewear is worn by Mr. Peanut? A: Monocle
Q: In what U.S. state did Huckleberry Finn live? A: Missouri
Q: "What television character said ""How YOU doin""?" A: Joey Tribbiani
Q: In which country would you find a billabong? A: Australia
Q: What holy river flows through Varanasi, India? A: Ganges
Q: Besides chocolate, what is the main flavor of Nutella? A: Hazelnut
Q: How many problems does Jay-Z have? A: 99
Q: What is India's most popular religion? A: Hinduism
Q: What was the first U.S. state to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples? A: Massachusetts
Q: What is Superman's home planet? A: Krypton
Q: If I have an eye-patch, a peg-leg, and a parrot on my shoulder, what am I? A: a Pirate
Q: What was the Fonz's last name? A: Fonzarelli
Q: What is the best-selling brand of acetaminophen? A: Tylenol
Q: Among the countries in Africa, which one has the largest economy? A: South Africa
Q: What country did the Soviet Union invade in 1979? A: Afghanistan
Q: What connects the Caribbean Sea to the Pacific Ocean? A: The Panama Canal
Q: What country was formerly known as Formosa? A: Taiwan
Q: "What language does the word ""yogurt"" come from?" A: Turkish
Q: What major Mexican city is near San Diego? A: Tijuana
Q: What is the Soviet version of an astronaut? A: Cosmonaut
Q: What is the official London residence of the British monarch? A: Buckingham Palace
Q: In which U.S. State is Disney World located? A: Florida
Q: What is the busiest airport in England? A: London Heathrow
Q: What is the last Greek letter? A: Omega
Q: Who led the Palestinian Liberation Organization from 1969-2004? A: Yasser Arafat
Q: Who does the Swiss Guard guard? A: The Pope
Q: What name is given to the Japanese mob? A: Yakuza
Q: At what university do Rhodes Scholars study? A: Oxford
Q: Alfred E. Neuman is the mascot of what magazine? A: Mad
Q: "What type of dinosaurs were the main antagonists in ""Jurassic Park""?" A: Velociraptor
Q: What word refers to a food or other substance that increases sexual desire? A: Aphrodisiac
Q: What was the name of Louis XIV's residence? A: Palace of Versailles
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name for a one-eyed giant? A: Cyclops
Q: What was the name of Wooster's valet? A: Jeeves
Q: What country uses the Baht as its currency? A: Thailand
Q: What disease was quinine used to treat? A: Malaria
Q: Who was the teddy bear named for? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: How many syllables does a haiku have? A: 17
Q: What toxic chemical element is contained inside fluorescent bulbs? A: Mercury
Q: What type of animal is the mascot of the World Wildlife Fund? A: Giant Panda
Q: What Shakespearean play is it bad luck to mention inside a theater? A: Macbeth
Q: What disease is associated with hydrophobia? A: Rabies
Q: What plant is linen made from? A: Flax
Q: Which city-state was Athens's greatest rival? A: Sparta
Q: The Jamaican bobsled team is the subject of what movie? A: Cool Runnings
Q: What is the name for the heir to the French throne? A: Dauphin
Q: In which country would you find the rebel group FARC? A: Colombia
Q: What type of creature is Chewbacca? A: Wookiee
Q: What is the southernmost city in Florida? A: Key West
Q: Who is the lead singer of Matchbox Twenty? A: Rob Thomas
Q: "What company sells ""Obsession"" perfume?" A: Calvin Klein
Q: What comes two days before Easter Sunday? A: Good Friday
Q: What sea are you in if you sail east through the Pillars of Hercules? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: What villain was famously portrayed by Bela Lugosi? A: Count Dracula
Q: """M*A*S*H"" was set during which conflict?" A: Korean War
Q: What unit is used to measure the height of a horse? A: Hands
Q: What is the Islamic equivalent to the Red Cross? A: Red Crescent
Q: Argentum is the Latin name for what element? A: Silver
Q: What vitamin precursor causes carrots to be orange? A: Beta-Carotene
Q: Who plays at Old Trafford? A: Manchester United
Q: "In ""Back to the Future Part II"", what future year did Marty McFly travel to?" A: 2015
Q: "Who sang ""These Boots are Made for Walkin'""?" A: Nancy Sinatra
Q: Which weapon is used for jousting? A: Lance
Q: What mostly-dead language was used to write the Hindu Vedas? A: Sanskrit
Q: Holstein and Angus are types of what? A: Cattle
Q: Scurvy is caused by a deficiency of what? A: Vitamin C
Q: In what book would you find a character known as the Artful Dodger? A: Oliver Twist
Q: During what holiday would one have a seder? A: Passover
Q: Transylvania is a part of which country? A: Romania
Q: What TV show finds out what happens when people stop being polite, and start being real? A: The Real World
Q: What is the best-selling hybrid car in the United States? A: Toyota Prius
Q: "What city's ""Great Smog"" killed over 4,000 people in 1952?" A: London
Q: What drink, named for a golfer, is half iced tea / half lemonade? A: Arnold Palmer
Q: "What is the common English translation of ""nolo contendere""?" A: No Contest
Q: "Who performed ""U Can't Touch This""?" A: MC Hammer
Q: What species of carnivore has the highest total population? A: Domestic Cat
Q: If a US army captain is promoted, what is his new rank? A: Major
Q: "What motel was featured in the movie ""Psycho""?" A: The Bates Motel
Q: According to legend, what type of tree did George Washington chop down? A: Cherry
Q: What award is the musical theater equivalent to an Oscar? A: Tony
Q: Who did Sirhan Sirhan assassinate? A: Robert F. Kennedy
Q: What major river flows through London? A: River Thames
Q: Who tries to hunt Bugs Bunny during wabbit season? A: Elmer Fudd
Q: What is the southernmost city in the United States (with a population over 100,000)? A: Honolulu
Q: What German road system famously has no federal speed limit? A: Autobahn
Q: Who did Hulk Hogan bodyslam in Wrestlemania III? A: Andre the Giant
Q: Who did Rocky fight in ? A: Ivan Drago
Q: In what U.S. state was Stephen King born? A: Maine
Q: The neighborhood of Harlem is named after a city in which country? A: Netherlands
Q: Who was the first Roman emperor? A: Augustus
Q: Who is Steffi Graf's husband? A: Andre Agassi
Q: On which street would you find the New York Stock Exchange? A: Wall Street
Q: Who preceded Queen Elizabeth II as monarch? A: George VI
Q: Where does the rain stay mainly on the plain? A: Spain
Q: The Bay of Fundy is famous for having the world's largest what? A: Tides
Q: In what city is the United States Naval Academy located? A: Annapolis
Q: Sumatra is part of which country? A: Indonesia
Q: Who has left the building? A: Elvis
Q: What is the British version of the board game Clue? A: Cluedo
Q: In which U.S. state is Cape Canaveral located? A: Florida
Q: What are Windsor, Neuschwanstein, and Blarney? A: Castles
Q: In which U.S. state was the first nuclear bomb tested? A: New Mexico
Q: "In the movie ""The Avengers"", which superhero uses a bow and arrow?" A: Hawkeye
Q: What legendary figure flew too close to the sun? A: Icarus
Q: Which element has the symbol Ag? A: Silver
Q: PADI offers instruction and certification for what activity? A: Scuba Diving
Q: What connects Lake Erie to the Hudson River? A: Erie Canal
Q: What type of animal eats royal jelly? A: Bee
Q: "Which country is called the ""graveyard of empires""?" A: Afghanistan
Q: What is the name of Elvis Presley's former home? A: Graceland
Q: Cartman is a character on what TV show? A: South Park
Q: What political organization has controlled the Gaza strip since 2007? A: Hamas
Q: What city is directly across the border from Windsor, Ontario? A: Detroit
Q: What high-kicking style of dance was the Moulin Rouge famous for? A: Can-can
Q: Seraphim and cherubim are types of what? A: Angels
Q: In which country were noodles invented? A: China
Q: What do hummingbirds and Greek gods drink? A: Nectar
Q: "Who played Iceman in the movie ""Top Gun""?" A: Val Kilmer
Q: Besides the moon, what is the brightest object in the night sky? A: Venus
Q: Who does Bernie Taupin write lyrics for? A: Elton John
Q: "In what country was ""The Sound of Music"" set?" A: Austria
Q: What smelly element is also referred to as brimstone? A: Sulfur
Q: What's the first rule of Fight Club? A: Do not talk about Fight Club
Q: How many points does a Yahtzee score? A: 50
Q: What famous musical festival was held on August 15-18, 1969? A: Woodstock
Q: What Russian dictator succeeded Khrushchev in 1964? A: Leonid Brezhnev
Q: Who are made of sugar, spice, and everything nice? A: Little Girls
Q: What is the largest river in India? A: Ganges
Q: Which country will host the Olympics in 2016? A: Brazil
Q: "Who said ""Do... or do not. There is no try""?" A: Yoda
Q: What is either a sport or a popular shopping street in Beverly Hills? A: Rodeo
Q: What is the term for an angle that is greater than 90 degrees? A: Obtuse
Q: What is the first name of Ozzy Osbourne's wife? A: Sharon
Q: What company bought Time Warner in 2000? A: AOL
Q: Who is the most famous traitor of the American Revolution? A: Benedict Arnold
Q: Who did the CIA allegedly attempt to assassinate using an exploding cigar? A: Fidel Castro
Q: What festival is held in Black Rock City, Nevada? A: Burning Man
Q: Until 1999, Macau was administered by which country? A: Portugal
Q: At Starbucks, what size is smaller than grande? A: Tall
Q: What is an underwater missile called? A: Torpedo
Q: What does a predator hunt? A: Prey
Q: What is the address of the White House? A: 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue
Q: What chemical makes hot peppers hot? A: Capsaicin
Q: What does a geiger counter measure? A: Ionizing Radiation
Q: What popular female rapper wears a pink wig? A: Nicki Minaj
Q: Who was the first democratically elected President of Russia? A: Boris Yeltsin
Q: An eye for an eye makes the whole world what? A: Blind
Q: Panzer, Abrams, and Sherman are types of what? A: Tanks
Q: What sport is Tony Hawk famous for? A: Skateboarding
Q: Which country's flag is a white rectangle, with a red circle in the center? A: Japan's
Q: What ethnic group is famous for helping people to climb Mt. Everest? A: Sherpas
Q: "What was the computer's name in ""2001: A Space Odyssey""?" A: Hal 9000
Q: Greenland is an autonomous part of which country? A: Denmark
Q: What food is sometimes called a Spanish doughnut, despite having a different shape? A: Churros
Q: What is the most popular spectator sport in India? A: Cricket
Q: What does a somnambulist do? A: Sleepwalk
Q: What type of animal spreads Lyme disease? A: Tick
Q: "What is the name of the starship in ""Star Trek""?" A: USS Enterprise
Q: What modern-day animal did the extinct Mastadon most closely resemble? A: Elephants
Q: What city was the primary capital of the Confederate States of America? A: Richmond, Virginia
Q: What company bought Instagram for $1 billion? A: Facebook
Q: What animated Disney movie featured an elephant with big ears? A: Dumbo
Q: What was the first American mission to land on the moon? A: Apollo 11
Q: Florida is to Disney World as California is to what? A: Disneyland
Q: In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet is from which family? A: Capulet
Q: What type of cheese is most commonly used on pizza? A: Mozzarella
Q: Although not current, what is the most well-known scale for measuring earthquake intensity? A: Richter
Q: What food product is made in a churn? A: Butter
Q: "Who wrote ""A Tale of Two Cities""?" A: Charles Dickens
Q: What is George W. Bush's full middle name? A: Walker
Q: Asperger syndrome is considered a mild form of what disorder? A: Autism
Q: Tony Montana came to the U.S. from which country? A: Cuba
Q: "What actress starred in ""Avatar"" and ""Aliens""?" A: Sigourney Weaver
Q: Who ran against Obama in the 2008 Presidential election? A: John McCain
Q: What was John Wayne's nickname? A: The Duke
Q: At a French McDonald's, what would they call a quarter pounder with cheese? A: Royal Cheese
Q: In what type of cell would you find an axon and dendrites? A: Nerve
Q: What is the largest country that borders Suriname? A: Brazil
Q: Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde are characters from what video game? A: Pac-Man
Q: Which U.S. President is thought to have had polio? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: """Mamma Mia!"" features music from what band?" A: ABBA
Q: Who is The Incredible Hulk's alter ego? A: Bruce Banner
Q: What R&B artist first signed Justin Bieber? A: Usher
Q: Which country borders Singapore (via bridges)? A: Malaysia
Q: What New York skyscraper is the United States' tallest building at 1,776 feet? A: One World Trade Center
Q: What is the capital of El Salvador? A: San Salvador
Q: """Chutzpah"" and ""shtick"" are loan-words from what language?" A: Yiddish
Q: "What recent singer's hits include ""Someone Like You"" and ""Rolling in the Deep""?" A: Adele
Q: What revolutionary was born in Argentina, came to prominence in Cuba, and was executed in Bolivia? A: Che Guevara
Q: What was the first name of Queen Elizabeth II's mother? A: Elizabeth
Q: What are Rigel, Betelgeuse, and Polaris? A: Stars
Q: What are the first five digits of pi? A: 3.1415
Q: "What group sings ""Love Shack"" and ""Rock Lobster""?" A: The B-52s
Q: What American swimmer won eight gold medals at the 2008 Olympics? A: Michael Phelps
Q: What is the capital of Bangladesh? A: Dhaka
Q: "Who is the author of ""The Hunger Games""?" A: Suzanne Collins
Q: In the U.S., what is the second ingredient in Coca-Cola? A: High Fructose Corn Syrup
Q: What is the only substance that can harm Superman? A: Kryptonite
Q: Who was Fred Flintstone's wife? A: Wilma
Q: In Hawaii, what does mahalo mean? A: Thank You
Q: What type of nut is used to make Nutella? A: Hazelnuts
Q: In what country are Ferraris made? A: Italy
Q: What kind of animal does mutton come from? A: Sheep
Q: What is Batman's real name? A: Bruce Wayne
Q: What is the world's largest airline, by number of passengers carried? A: American
Q: What Taiwanese drink is made of sweetened tea and chewy tapioca balls? A: Bubble Tea
Q: Which Madonna song mentions Grace Kelly, Joe Dimaggio, and Rita Hayworth? A: Vogue
Q: What is the most famous fountain in Rome? A: Trevi Fountain
Q: What was the first U.S. state to legalize same-sex marriage? A: Massachusetts
Q: If I have a mustache, drink PBR, and liked things before they were cool, what am I? A: A Hipster
Q: What tanker spilled oil in Prince William Sound? A: Exxon Valdez
Q: What city hosted the first Modern Olympics in 1896? A: Athens
Q: What is the name of the 3-headed dog that guards Hades? A: Cerberus
Q: What is the Aboriginal name for Ayers Rock? A: Uluru
Q: What musician died in a plane crash along with Ritchie Valens and the Big Bopper? A: Buddy Holly
Q: ABBA and Celine Dion were winners of what European song contest? A: Eurovision
Q: Besides the sun, which star appears brightest from Earth? A: Sirius
Q: Tasmania is part of which country? A: Australia
Q: Throughout most of the series, who was the headmaster at Hogwarts? A: Albus Dumbledore
Q: Who were Aramis, Porthos and Athos? A: The Three Musketeers
Q: What two words were added to the US Pledge of Allegiance in 1954? A: Under God
Q: What is thought to be at the center of the Milky Way? A: Black Hole
Q: "What Billy Joel song contains the lyric: ""Son can you play me a memory, I'm not really sure how it goes""?" A: Piano Man
Q: What TV show is set in Bikini Bottom? A: SpongeBob SquarePants
Q: What neurotoxin is used to prevent wrinkles? A: Botox
Q: What is the only U.S. state that starts with R? A: Rhode Island
Q: If you are at John Lennon airport, which city are you in? A: Liverpool
Q: Hamlet was a prince of what country? A: Denmark
Q: "In ""Seinfeld"", what is Kramer's first name?" A: Cosmo
Q: What is the largest city in Brazil? A: So Paulo
Q: "Who wrote the ""Twilight"" series?" A: Stephenie Meyer
Q: What song does Weird Al Yankovic's Amish Paradise parody? A: Gangsta's Paradise
Q: What is the name for the crime of lying under oath? A: Perjury
Q: "What comedian gets ""no respect""?" A: Rodney Dangerfield
Q: What title is given to the leader of a Catholic diocese? A: Bishop
Q: The Statue of Liberty was a gift from which country? A: France
Q: In which modern day country was the Viking settlement of Vinland? A: Canada
Q: Who is the world record holder for the men's 100m and 200m sprints? A: Usain Bolt
Q: According to Ben Franklin, the only certain things are death and what? A: Taxes
Q: What comes in tapioca, figgy and chocolate varieties? A: Pudding
Q: "Who is the main character of ""The Hunger Games"" series?" A: Katniss Everdeen
Q: In alphabetical order, what is the first US state? A: Alabama
Q: What disease is projected to be eradicated worldwide by 2018, thanks to vaccines? A: Polio
Q: What is the UK equivalent of the CIA? A: MI6
Q: "What is the English translation of the phrase ""annus horribilis""?" A: Horrible Year
Q: What is the central religous text of Islam? A: Quran
Q: Where would you find the Sea of Tranquility? A: The Moon
Q: Who directed the top two highest-grossing movies of all time? A: James Cameron
Q: What company owns Old Navy and Banana Republic? A: The Gap
Q: In 2012, what did Snoop Dogg say he was changing his name to? A: Snoop Lion
Q: What type of animal is also known as a sea cow? A: Manatee
Q: """Apocalyse Now"" is a modern interpretation of what book by Joseph Conrad?" A: Heart of Darkness
Q: What fictional family has a gigantic, ominous butler named Lurch? A: The Addams Family
Q: In what language is a reef triggerfish known as a humuhumunukunukupuaa? A: Hawaiian
Q: What is the only U.S. state whose name is one syllable long? A: Maine
Q: What city was generally the destination of the crusaders? A: Jerusalem
Q: Roger Daltrey is the lead singer of which band? A: The Who
Q: Hooker, Scrum, and Ruck are terms from which sport? A: Rugby
Q: What is the largest island in the English Channel? A: Isle of Wight
Q: William the Conqueror came from which French region? A: Normandy
Q: """My Heart Will Go On"" was the theme song of what movie?" A: Titanic
Q: Who was the legendary enemy of the Sheriff of Nottingham? A: Robin Hood
Q: Our solar system is located within which galaxy? A: The Milky Way
Q: "What substance is called ""black gold""?" A: Oil
Q: "Who was the ""Man of La Mancha""?" A: Don Quixote
Q: What is the call sign of the plane carrying the U.S. president? A: Air Force One
Q: What type of tree do acorns come from? A: Oak
Q: What was the name for the system of racial segregation in South Africa, prior to 1994? A: Apartheid
Q: "Who says ""Th-th-that's all folks""?" A: Porky Pig
Q: """Joey"" was a spin-off of what popular sitcom?" A: Friends
Q: Originally, what animated mouse was to be named Mortimer? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: What tool is used to measure atmospheric pressure? A: Barometer
Q: Pregnant women should not eat canned tuna because of high levels of what toxin? A: Mercury
Q: Make sure to wear flowers in your hair if you visit which famous hippie city? A: San Francisco
Q: Every year, the Discovery Channel has a week devoted to what type of animal? A: Sharks
Q: Morels and chanterelles are types of what? A: Mushrooms
Q: The Hindenburg zeppelin was filled with what highly flammable gas? A: Hydrogen
Q: Mongolia borders China and which other country? A: Russia
Q: "What is the name of the post-apocalyptic nation in which ""The Hunger Games"" takes place?" A: Panem
Q: What medical procedure is also referred to as a lumbar puncture? A: Spinal Tap
Q: What spacecraft exploded in 1986, killing the 7 astronauts inside? A: Challenger
Q: What childhood stories feature a young boy named Mowgli? A: The Jungle Book
Q: "What director created the popular 1980's films ""The Breakfast Club"", ""Sixteen Candles"", and ""Ferris Bueller's Day Off""?" A: John Hughes
Q: What metal is the outer layer of the Statue of Liberty made from? A: Copper
Q: What author wrote several political thrillers that featured the character Jack Ryan? A: Tom Clancy
Q: If you give a mouse a cookie, what will he want next? A: Milk
Q: Who was the first person to see the moons of Jupiter? A: Galileo Galilei
Q: What is the name for a group of lions? A: Pride
Q: "The ""Swoosh"" is the logo of what company?" A: Nike
Q: What did the Montgolfier brothers invent, in 1782? A: Hot Air Balloon
Q: In everyday English, what is your patella? A: Kneecap
Q: Shortstop is a position in what sport? A: Baseball
Q: Siberia is part of what country? A: Russia
Q: Who is the mayor of McDonaldland? A: Mayor McCheese
Q: What traditional Chinese medical procedure involves sticking small needles into the body? A: Acupuncture
Q: "What lip-syncing duo had the hit ""Blame it on the Rain""?" A: Milli Vanilli
Q: What diminuitive sex advice columnist was trained as a sniper by Israeli militants? A: Dr. Ruth Westheimer
Q: What is the lowest voice register in a barbershop quartet? A: Bass
Q: "What Olympic event is sometimes called ""horse ballet""?" A: Dressage
Q: What prison did Sirius Black escape from? A: Azkaban
Q: What popular phone app has you destroy pigs with a slingshot? A: Angry Birds
Q: According to Greek mythology, who is the god of war? A: Ares
Q: Pharaohs were leaders of which ancient nation? A: Egypt
Q: According to Dante, what is the worst of the seven deadly sins? A: Pride
Q: What element has chemical symbol Fe? A: Iron
Q: Mr. Olympia is a competition in what activity? A: Bodybuilding
Q: What type of bird is considered a national symbol of New Zealand? A: Kiwi
Q: What is the name of frozen carbon dioxide? A: Dry Ice
Q: Crock Pot is a brand name of what? A: Slow Cooker
Q: What was Cameron Diaz's first major movie? (hint: her co-star was Jim Carrey) A: The Mask
Q: Typically, venison meat comes from what type of animal? A: Deer
Q: "What Korean martial art translates as ""the way of the hand and foot?" A: Taekwondo
Q: What actor frequently performed alongside his dancing partner Ginger Rogers? A: Fred Astaire
Q: What African country was founded by freed American slaves? A: Liberia
Q: What is the square root of 625? A: 25
Q: What is the name for a six-sided polygon? A: Hexagon
Q: "What story does the phrase ""Bah Humbug"" come from?" A: A Christmas Carol
Q: What organ is responsible for filtering toxins such as alcohol? A: The Liver
Q: "What pop group's first hit was ""Wannabe""?" A: The Spice Girls
Q: "Which U.S. President was known as ""Ike""?" A: Dwight D. Eisenhower
Q: What is the biggest chain of grocery stores in the UK? A: Tesco
Q: What New York hotel gave its name to a salad with apples, celery, walnuts, and mayo? A: The Waldorf
Q: Assam and Ceylon are types of what? A: Tea
Q: "Who originally wrote the song ""All Along the Watchtower"", later covered by Jimi Hendrix?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: "What was the name of the volleyball in the movie ""Cast Away""?" A: Wilson
Q: What country does Heineken beer come from? A: Netherlands
Q: What ethnic group controls an autonomous region of northeastern Iraq? A: Kurds
Q: In what activity were Garry Kasparov and Bobby Fisher world champions? A: Chess
Q: What hormone do diabetics suffer a deficiency of? A: Insulin
Q: What is 100 degrees Celsius, in Fahrenheit? A: 212
Q: What type of animal is Winnie the Pooh's friend Eeyore? A: Donkey
Q: What is the name for a group of rats whose tails have been tangled together? A: a Rat King
Q: In what country is Timbuktu located? A: Mali
Q: Which mythological figure sailed on the Argo? A: Jason
Q: What kind of trees lose their leaves in the winter? A: Deciduous
Q: "Who wrote ""The Audacity of Hope""?" A: Barack Obama
Q: In which country is the martial art of krav maga part of a soldier's basic training? A: Israel
Q: Who was the first (and only) female Prime Minister of the United Kingdom? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: In fairy tales, who is Gretel's brother? A: Hansel
Q: "What 1996 movie coined the phrase ""show me the money""?" A: Jerry Maguire
Q: It is sometimes considered unfashionable to wear white after which U.S. holiday? A: Labor Day
Q: Actress Liv Tyler's father is the lead singer of what band? A: Aerosmith
Q: What fictional young adventuress has red braids, freckles, and a pet monkey named Mr. Nilsson? A: Pippi Longstocking
Q: "How many leagues did Captain Nemo travel ""under the sea""?" A: 20,000
Q: What is fed to a bee larva to turn it into a queen? A: Royal Jelly
Q: What Christian holiday falls on the Sunday before Easter? A: Palm Sunday
Q: What is Thomas A. Swift's Electric Rifle better known as? A: Taser
Q: "What does ""domo arigato"" mean?" A: Thank you very much
Q: What actress played Bella in Twilight? A: Kristen Stewart
Q: What American track athlete won 4 gold medals in 1984? A: Carl Lewis
Q: What is the last letter in the Greek alphabet? A: Omega
Q: In the Pacific Northwest, what's another name for Bigfoot? A: Sasquatch
Q: What type of reference book lists synonyms? A: Thesaurus
Q: Who is the Godfather of Soul? A: James Brown
Q: Who is often credited with inventing peanut butter (but didn't)? A: George Washington Carver
Q: What type of eyewear is shared by the Monopoly Man and Mr. Peanut? A: Monocle
Q: Who lived on Walden Pond? A: Henry David Thoreau
Q: What award is given to the World Cup's leading goal scorer? A: Golden Boot
Q: What is the largest desert in Asia? A: Gobi
Q: will.i.am is a member of which group? A: Black Eyed Peas
Q: What sweetener is usually used in Diet Coke? A: Aspartame
Q: A Clydesdale is a breed of what animal? A: Horse
Q: What are Casper and Slimer? A: Ghosts
Q: Take marshmallows, graham crackers and chocolate - what do you get? A: S'mores
Q: What city did the Appian Way lead to? A: Rome
Q: What television host is married to Portia de Rossi? A: Ellen Degeneres
Q: Who famously painted endless staircases and other impossible constructions? A: M. C. Escher
Q: What was the profession of Loretta Lynn's father? A: Coal Miner
Q: Geographically, which French city is closest to England? A: Calais
Q: What profession was shared by Frank Oz and Jim Henson? A: Puppeteer
Q: "What movie character said ""Do or do not. There is no try""?" A: Yoda
Q: What animal did Ben Franklin think superior to the bald eagle? (as a national symbol of the US) A: Wild Turkey
Q: What language is the language Afrikaans derived from? A: Dutch
Q: What famous physicist has ALS disease? A: Stephen Hawking
Q: What pop star married British movie director Guy Ritchie? A: Madonna
Q: What bouncy substance was invented by the absent-minded professor? A: Flubber
Q: What country attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941? A: Japan
Q: What was the name of Geppetto's puppet who came to life? A: Pinocchio
Q: What type of animal would you find in an apiary? A: a Bee
Q: What Los Angeles street gang is rivals with the Crips? A: The Bloods
Q: In the Bible, Lot's wife was turned into a pillar of what? A: Salt
Q: "In addition to Arnold Schwarzenegger, what future governor starred in ""Predator""?" A: Jesse Ventura
Q: What is the scientific name for the human species? A: Homo Sapiens
Q: "What TV show had the theme song ""I'll be there for you""?" A: Friends
Q: What was abolished by the 13th amendment to the U.S. Constitution? A: Slavery
Q: What is the name of both a French dynasty and a street in New Orleans? A: Bourbon
Q: "What city is ""my kind of town"", according to Frank Sinatra?" A: Chicago
Q: In which U.S. state would you find Cape Cod? A: Massachusetts
Q: "Of what island do the Beach Boys sing, ""We'll get there fast, and then we'll take it slow""?" A: Kokomo
Q: Who is elected by the College of Cardinals? A: The Pope
Q: What mountain chain runs through the majority of Switzerland? A: Alps
Q: What city is divided into 20 arrondissements? A: Paris
Q: "What British Prime Minister is widely criticized for his policy of ""appeasement""?" A: Neville Chamberlain
Q: What singer recorded a live record at Folsom Prison? A: Johnny Cash
Q: What country did Alexis de Tocqueville famously write about? A: United States
Q: What religion believes that Xenu brought aliens to Earth 75 million years ago and killed them with atom bombs? A: Scientology
Q: "What language is the song ""Hava Nagila"" written in?" A: Hebrew
Q: What are LP records made out of? A: Vinyl
Q: What stone provided the key to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs? A: Rosetta Stone
Q: "What British model from the 1960's was ""stick thin""?" A: Twiggy
Q: "Who directed ""Pulp Fiction"" and ""Kill Bill""?" A: Quentin Tarantino
Q: What was Aesop known for writing? A: Fables
Q: What astrological sign is represented by twins? A: Gemini
Q: "What TV show had an episode entitled ""The Trouble with Tribbles""?" A: Star Trek
Q: What country was Kylie Minogue born in? A: Australia
Q: Who shot Achilles in the heel? A: Paris
Q: In what European city are Prada headquarters located? A: Milan
Q: What activity does Lululemon make apparel for? A: Yoga
Q: What is the second book of the Old Testament? A: Exodus
Q: Besides ketchup, what is the main ingredient in cocktail sauce? A: Horseradish
Q: Until 1903, what stimulant was added to Coca-Cola? A: Cocaine
Q: What Greek titan was said to hold the Earth on his shoulders? A: Atlas
Q: What is either a Black Sabbath song or a super hero? A: Iron Man
Q: What was the hunchback of Notre Dame's name? A: Quasimodo
Q: What was New York serial killer David Berkowitz better known as? A: Son of Sam
Q: Who are the best-selling disco group of all time? A: The Bee Gees
Q: What landmark was built for the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle? A: The Space Needle
Q: What is Cartman's first name? A: Eric
Q: Morrissey was the lead singer of what band? A: The Smiths
Q: What live free or die state has the lowest rate of seat belt use in the US? A: New Hampshire
Q: What Las Vegas hotel is shaped like an Egyptian pyramid? A: The Luxor
Q: What is the fastest bird on land? A: Ostrich
Q: "Who orders martinis ""shaken, not stirred""?" A: James Bond
Q: "What is the subject of Al Gore's book ""An Inconvenient Truth""?" A: Global Warming
Q: What type of animal ate Lindy Chamberlain's baby, in the Australian outback? A: a Dingo
Q: "Who played the young version of Vito Corleone in ""The Godfather Part II""?" A: Robert De Niro
Q: What type of droid was C-3PO? A: a Protocol Droid
Q: What is the name for the second full moon in a calendar month? A: Blue Moon
Q: A sousaphone is a marching version of what instrument? A: Tuba
Q: What is either a type of fragrance or a city in Germany? A: Cologne
Q: What is made from sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter? A: Gunpowder
Q: Which country's royal family includes Prince Rainier and Grace Kelly? A: Monaco's
Q: Which U.S. President had the longest term? A: Franklin D. Roosevelt
Q: What is the easternmost national capital in the Americas? A: Brasilia
Q: What is the common description of the term rhinoplasty? A: Nose Job
Q: Who was Van Helsing's archenemy? A: Count Dracula
Q: What is the Emerald Isle? A: Ireland
Q: In what city did Anne Frank hide from the Nazis? A: Amsterdam
Q: What is the currency of Germany? A: The Euro
Q: What is the title of the first Rambo movie? A: First Blood
Q: The animal Megalodon went extinct 2.6 million years ago. What type of animal was it? A: a Shark
Q: What divides in two in a process called mitosis? A: Cells
Q: "What ""logy"" is the study of animals?" A: Zoology
Q: What country's main island is Honshu? A: Japan
Q: Who was the first murder victim in the Bible? A: Abel
Q: What is the biggest city in New Zealand? A: Auckland
Q: Who did Eva Braun marry on April 29, 1945? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Who is considered the father of psychoanalysis? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: "What musician is known as ""The Boss?" A: Bruce Springsteen
Q: In what video game did you battle Glass Joe, Bald Bull, and others before finally facing Mike Tyson? A: Punch-Out!!
Q: What was the name of the first Indiana Jones movie? A: Raiders of the Lost Ark
Q: What instrument did Sherlock Holmes play? A: Violin
Q: What plant do pepitas come from? A: Pumpkins
Q: "What ""valley"" is home to many tech companies including Apple, Google, and Facebook?" A: Silicon
Q: "What sport was featured in the movie ""Invictus""?" A: Rugby Union
Q: What newspaper does Clark Kent work for? A: The Daily Planet
Q: What is both a breed of cattle and a stereotypical Scottish first name? A: Angus
Q: "What Australian ""dame"" is actually a man?" A: Dame Edna
Q: What measurement is half of the diameter of a circle? A: Radius
Q: What is the main ingredient in pesto? A: Basil
Q: What beverage did the British Navy stop giving out with rations in 1970? A: Rum
Q: What country was formerly called the Dutch East Indies? A: Indonesia
Q: If George W. Bush were to have been impeached (and convicted), who would have become President? A: Dick Cheney
Q: In addition to New York, London and Paris, what city is considered a fashion capital? A: Milan
Q: "What actor was the voice of Woody in ""Toy Story""?" A: Tom Hanks
Q: In what modern-day country did the Battle of Gallipoli take place? A: Turkey
Q: What port city was connected to Manchester by the world's first railroad? A: Liverpool
Q: Hatha, Bikram, and Iyengar are forms of what? A: Yoga
Q: What is Hinduism's holiest river? A: Ganges
Q: Where would you find the Great Red Spot? A: Jupiter
Q: What does an oenophile love? A: Wine
Q: What European country did not join the United Nations until 2002? A: Switzerland
Q: What popular spread is made of hazelnut, milk, and a hint of cocoa? A: Nutella
Q: What is the most populous city in Australia? A: Sydney
Q: What still-running TV show did Lorne Michaels create in 1975? A: Saturday Night Live
Q: Who was Anakin Skywalker's wife? A: Padm Amidala
Q: In Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven, what word does the raven say? A: Nevermore
Q: What US state has the most Cajuns? A: Louisiana
Q: A man a plan a canal Panama is a famous example of what? A: Palindrome
Q: In what country would you find the city of Bruges? A: Belgium
Q: What were Calico Jack and Blackbeard? A: Pirates
Q: What, primarily, do giant pandas eat? A: Bamboo
Q: What comet passes near Earth every 76 years? A: Halley's Comet
Q: What country was formerly known as Ceylon? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What connects the Red Sea to the Mediterranean Sea? A: The Suez Canal
Q: What is the least populated borough of New York City? A: Staten Island
Q: What article of clothing is famously worn by Dracula and Superman? A: Cape
Q: Caviar is traditionally made from the eggs of what type of fish? A: Sturgeon
Q: Who is the most famous ragtime composer? A: Scott Joplin
Q: Who was the first black Supreme Court justice? A: Thurgood Marshall
Q: Switzerland shares its Western border with what country? A: France
Q: What actor starred as Harry Potter? A: Daniel Radcliffe
Q: What city was the first to be run as a democracy? A: Athens
Q: What animal's milk is mozzarella cheese traditionally made from? A: Water Buffalo
Q: What mythological figure inspires romantic love with his bow and arrow? A: Cupid
Q: "What actor based his character in ""Magic Mike"" off of his own experience as a stripper?" A: Channing Tatum
Q: What is the slowest of the four Olympic swimming strokes? A: Breaststroke
Q: What Dr. Seuss character hears a Who? A: Horton
Q: In what country did chess originate? A: India
Q: What is the largest island in the Caribbean? A: Cuba
Q: What is the longest running show on MTV? A: The Real World
Q: What is also known as an abattoir? A: Slaughterhouse
Q: "What company's logo is described as a ""swoosh""?" A: Nike
Q: "What Christmas character said ""God bless us, every one!""" A: Tiny Tim
Q: Who is Jennifer Aniston's ex-husband? A: Brad Pitt
Q: "What band performed ""Sympathy for the Devil""?" A: The Rolling Stones
Q: Who has won the most Daytona 500 races? A: Richard Petty
Q: Who was the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia? A: Robert E. Lee
Q: Besides champagne, what's in a mimosa? A: Orange Juice
Q: What was the nickname of Manfred von Richthofen, the top fighter ace in World War One? A: The Red Baron
Q: What disease killed approximately 40% of Europe's population in 1346-1353? A: Black Death
Q: What weapon was used in the Medieval joust? A: Lance
Q: What island was home to the Minoan Civilization? A: Crete
Q: Lorenzo the Magnificent was the ruler of what city-state? A: Florence
Q: What was the nickname of Queen Mary I of England? A: Bloody Mary
Q: The prefix gastro refers to what part of the human body? A: Stomach
Q: What bridge connects San Francisco and Marin County? A: Golden Gate Bridge
Q: What band is led by singer Axl Rose? A: Guns N' Roses
Q: For what disease did Jonas Salk invent a vaccine? A: Polio
Q: What was the Artful Dodger's profession? A: Pickpocket
Q: What was the name of the Hunchback of Notre Dame? A: Quasimodo
Q: What sea lies between Italy and the Balkans? A: Adriatic
Q: "In what U.S. state would you be most likely to find ""Shave Ice""?" A: Hawaii
Q: According to Biblical legend, what landed on Mt. Ararat? A: Noah's Ark
Q: Who gets stoned during Hajj? A: The Devil
Q: "In the ""Peanuts"" comic strip, who is Linus's sister?" A: Lucy
Q: What holiday is celebrated on July 14th in France? A: Bastille Day
Q: Who is Frodo's famous uncle? A: Bilbo
Q: What is the tallest building in England? A: The Shard
Q: Who is the leader of the Lost Boys? A: Peter Pan
Q: What did Steve Fossett use to travel around the world in 2002? A: Balloon
Q: The Great Barrier Reef lies off the shores of what country? A: Australia
Q: Among scuba divers, what is decompression sickness commonly known as? A: The Bends
Q: Who started the Protestant Reformation? A: Martin Luther
Q: Who is the Hindu destroyer god? A: Shiva
Q: Who is credited with inventing bifocals? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: What ended at 11am on November 11, 1918? A: World War I
Q: What U.S. state is known as the Lone Star state? A: Texas
Q: In what city did pizza originate? A: Naples
Q: What show features the TARDIS? A: Doctor Who
Q: What is Robin of Locksley better known as? A: Robin Hood
Q: What HBO fantasy show was the most-pirated show of 2012? A: Game of Thrones
Q: What endangered bird is the largest bird in North America? A: California Condor
Q: What type of berries are used to flavor gin? A: Juniper Berries
Q: Christian Grey is a character in what recent book trilogy? A: Fifty Shades
Q: Who are Athos, Porthos, and Aramis? A: The Three Musketeers
Q: A Fender Stratocaster is a type of what? A: Electric Guitar
Q: In what sport might you see a Triple Axle? A: Figure Skating
Q: What Disney film features a princess named Merida? A: Brave
Q: "Who composed ""The Marriage of Figaro""?" A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: Heirloom, Roma, and Pear are types of what? A: Tomato
Q: What company is responsible for 20% of South Korea's GDP? A: Samsung
Q: What space telescope has been in orbit since 1990? A: Hubble
Q: "The song ""Gangnam Style"" was about a neighborhood in what city?" A: Seoul
Q: Who is the dog of Dick and Jane? A: Spot
Q: "What arthropod's name literally means ""hundred feet""?" A: Centipede
Q: What is the main ingredient in marinara sauce? A: Tomatoes
Q: "What fictional character sings ""It's not easy being green""?" A: Kermit the Frog
Q: What unit of distance is approximately equal to 0.62 miles? A: Kilometer
Q: In what battle did Napoleon meet his final defeat? A: Battle of Waterloo
Q: In what part of the world would you be most likely to see the sport of caber tossing? A: Scotland
Q: What beat novel featured the character Dean Moriarty? A: On The Road
Q: What exam must be passed to practice law in the United States? A: Bar Exam
Q: What is the process of splitting atoms called? A: Fission
Q: What is another name for a woodchuck? A: Groundhog
Q: What comes in handlebar, toothbrush, and fu manchu varieties? A: Mustaches
Q: Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish celebration of what? A: New Year
Q: What type of triangle has sides of three different lengths? A: Scalene
Q: Who is Winnie the Pooh's human friend? A: Christopher Robin
Q: Who was crowned as the British monarch in 1838? A: Queen Victoria
Q: What word refers to the neck hair of a lion or horse? A: Mane
Q: What do you call a piece of land that is surrounded on three sides by water? A: Peninsula
Q: On what holiday is the Chicago River dyed green? A: St. Patrick's Day
Q: Who suggested a spoonful of sugar to help the medicine go down? A: Mary Poppins
Q: "What book is subtitled ""There and Back Again""?" A: The Hobbit
Q: According to P.T. Barnum, there's a what born every minute? A: Sucker
Q: What US state is made up entirely of islands? A: Hawaii
Q: In what museum would you find the Mona Lisa? A: The Louvre
