Q: Teri Hatcher played Paris Carver in which James Bond film? A: Tomorrow Never Dies
Q: Who succeeded Peter III of Russia in 1762? A: Catherine II (The Great)
Q: Cee Lo Green is one half of which US soul duo? A: Gnarls Barkley
Q: In February 1938, what was the first commercial product to be made with nylon yarn? A: Toothbrush
Q: The Harry Potter series of books was published by which British publisher? A: Bloomsbury
Q: In Greek mythology, one of the 12 Labours of Hercules was to defeat the man-eating Stymphalian ‘what’? A: Birds
Q: Samedi is French for which day of the week? A: Saturday
Q: The Scottish village of Ullapool lies on which loch? A: Loch Broom
Q: In May 1990 ‘Portrait of Dr Gachet’ by which artist was sold at auction for a record 82.5 Million US dollars? A: Vincent van Gough
Q: ‘Welcome to Joyville’ is an advertising slogan for which confectionery brand? A: Cadbury
Q: Which British television chef was reported as saying ‘For any chef, supermarkets are like a factory.  I buy from specialist growers, organic suppliers and farmers’? A: Jamie Oliver
Q: Who played the role of Gabrielle Dragon in the 1966 UK television series ‘George and the Dragon’? A: Peggy Mount
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Vestis virum reddit’ translate to in English? A: Clothes make the man
Q: Who wrote the 1869 novel ‘War and Peace’? A: Leo Tolstoy
Q: In medicine, ptosis affects which part of the body? A: Eyelid
Q: What is the name of a small curve over a vowel which symbolises a short sound? A: Breve
Q: What type of creature is a dragonet? A: Fish
Q: The Cathar Castles are in which European country? A: France
Q: What is the official language of the Canadian province Quebec? A: French
Q: British Prime Minister Harold MacMillan was the leader of which political party? A: Conservative Party
Q: The Calcutta Cup is played for in Rugby union between which two nations? A: England and Scotland
Q: The Biskupin Open Air Museum is a life-size model of a prehistoric settlement in which European country? A: Poland
Q: ‘Stone walls do not a ‘what’ make’ is a line from a poem by 17th Century poet Richard Lovelace? A: Prison
Q: In Judaism, what is the collective name for the ten people required to be present in order to for a communal religious service to be conducted? A: Minyan
Q: The dish Kinchi (or Ginchi) is a traditional vegetable side-dish of which country? A: Korea
Q: What is the title of the first-person shooter science fiction video game, released by id Software in 1993? A: Doom
Q: Who won the 1994 Formula One Grand Prix World Championships? A: Michael Schumacher
Q: Who was Bill Clinton’s running mate in the 1992 US Presidential election? A: Al Gore
Q: In August 1990, which late American composer and conductor had his final concert at Tanglewood in Massachusetts, with the Boston Symphony Orchestra? A: Leonard Bernstein
Q: In April 1993, the World Health Organisation declared which disease ‘A global health emergency’? A: Tuberculosis
Q: Who won the World Chess Championship in December 1990, holding his title? A: Garry Kasparov
Q: Which country won the 1996 Cricket World Cup? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What was the call sign of the eight-man British Army SAS patrol deployed into Iraq during the first Gulf War in January 1991? A: Bravo Two Zero
Q: In November 1990, British Satellite Broadcasting merged with which television service? A: Sky (Television plc)
Q: In October 1992, which singer ripped up a photo of Pope John Paul II on Saturday Night Live, after performing a song protesting alleged child abuse by the Catholic Church? A: Sinead O’Connor
Q: Bombora, Iceberg, Eristoff and Chopin are all brands of which alcoholic drink? A: Vodka
Q: Edward of Woodstock, The Black Prince, was the father of which English monarch? A: King Richard II
Q: Who played Tracy di Vicenzo in the 1969 James Bond film ‘On Her Majesty’s Secret Service’? A: Diana Rigg
Q: Former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair was born in which British city? A: Edinburgh
Q: In June 1972, Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney founded which electronics and video games company? A: Atari
Q: Which British Olympic swimmer has a pub named after them in the town of Mansfield? A: Rebecca Adlington
Q: Children with the medical condition hyperlexia have an advanced ability to do what? A: Read
Q: Who plays Jack Regan in the 2012 film ‘The Sweeney’? A: Ray Winstone
Q: Xuan (or Shuen) paper is commonly known by what name? A: Rice paper
Q: Who was the father of American singer-songwriter Norah Jones? A: Ravi Shankar
Q: Dorado is Spanish for which colour? A: Gold
Q: Who became the youngest winner of FHM’s ‘Sexiest Woman in the World’ award in 2006? A: Keira Knightly
Q: The New York Rangers represent the city in which sport? A: Ice Hockey
Q: Which British entertainer, born June 1960, played football for Barnet FC at the same time as Jimmy Greaves? A: Bradley Walsh
Q: Who returned to office as Canadian Prime Minister in March 1980? A: Pierre Trudeau
Q: Which electronics company released the world’s first all-electric compact calculator in 1957? A: Casio
Q: The original lyrics of the folk song ‘Waltzing Matilda’ were written by which Australian poet in 1895? A: Banjo Paterson
Q: What is the nickname of the UFC (Uniting For Consensus), which was developed in the 1990’s in opposition to the possible expansion of the United Nations Security Council? A: The Coffee Club
Q: What is the highest number on a UK National Lottery ticket? A: 49
Q: The Henley Royal Regatta takes place over the first weekend of which month? A: July
Q: The name of which region in India means ‘Land of Five Rivers’? A: Punjab
Q: Provolone is what type of foodstuff? A: Cheese
Q: What is the name of the poltergeist which haunts Hogwarts School in the Harry Potter series of novels? A: Peeves
Q: Who succeeded Henry Cooper as British Heavyweight Boxing Champion? A: Joe Bugner
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Looking for Mr Goodbar’? A: Judith Rossner
Q: Which British monarch was the grandfather of Queen Victoria? A: King George III
Q: US actor/director Jerome Silberman is better known by what name? A: Gene Wilder
Q: Bole International Airport is in which African country? A: Ethiopia
Q: In the US, which state borders the south of Kansas? A: Oklahoma
Q: Which is the seventh planet from the sun? A: Uranus
Q: In the Jewish calendar, what is the ninth month of the civil year called? A: Sivan
Q: In which year did the British government decriminalise homosexuality? A: 1967
Q: Which ball game was invented by Dr James Naismith in Massachusetts USA  in 1891? A: Basketball
Q: Who became Scotland’s longest-serving first minister in November 2012? A: Alex Salmond
Q: Anthony van Dyke was court painter of which English monarch? A: King Charles I
Q: Who directed and co-starred in the 1958 film ‘Touch of Evil’? A: Orson Welles
Q: What is the full width of a badminton court in feet? A: 20 feet
Q: ‘Say hello to my little friend’ is a quote from which film starring Al Pacino? A: Scarface
Q: Standard, Miniature and Toy are all breeds of which dog? A: Poodle
Q: Which two US actors played the title roles in the 1969 film ‘Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid’? A: Paul Newman and Robert Redford
Q: Captain James Cook began his training as a seaman in the 18th Century at which English port? A: Whitby
Q: How many stations are on the London Underground Victoria Line? A: 16
Q: Yeux is French for which part of the body? A: Eyes
Q: Which analgesic occurs naturally in the bark of the cinchona tree? A: Quinine
Q: Who directed the 1982 film ‘Gandhi’? A: Richard Attenborough
Q: National Heroes Day is celebrated in Barbados during which month of the year? A: April
Q: Ankara is the capital of which country? A: Turkey
Q: Which fictional bear’s favourite food is marmalade sandwiches? A: Paddington Bear
Q: What was the first name of PGT Beauregard, the first prominent general of the Confederate State Army in the American Civil War? A: Pierre
Q: Who played the title role in the 1970 film ‘Cromwell’? A: Richard Harris
Q: What is the largest gulf in the world? A: Gulf of Mexico
Q: How many squares are on a Spear’s Games Snakes and Ladders board? A: 100
Q: ‘The Compact Pussycat’ is driven by which character in the children’s television series ‘Wacky Races’? A: Penelope Pitstop
Q: How many Deadly Sins are there? A: Seven
Q: How many Jokers are in a standard pack of cards? A: Two
Q: Tipperary is in which European country? A: Ireland
Q: Eddie Fisher, Michael Todd and John Warner were all married to which late Hollywood actress? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: Madras was the former name of which Indian city? A: Chennai
Q: What is Philip Treacy famous for designing? A: Hats
Q: Prince Albert, husband of British monarch Queen Victoria, was born in which modern-day country? A: Germany
Q: Which animal is depicted as the face of breakfast cereal Coco Pops? A: Monkey
Q: The countries Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya are all in which continent? A: Africa
Q: What colour is superhero Batman’s Batphone? A: Red
Q: The caber, kilts and bagpipes are all associated with with European country? A: Scotland
Q: What is the name of the fictional road on the council estate to which the Queen and her family have to move in the 1992 novel ‘The Queen and I’ by Sue Townsend? A: Hellebore Close
Q: In the game of billiards, what colour are the spots on the spot balls? A: Black
Q: A fewterer is a keeper of which animals? A: Dogs
Q: In the nursery rhyme, who was eating curds and whey? A: Miss Muffet
Q: The English resort of Broadstairs is in which county? A: Kent
Q: Leonard, Ria, Adam, Russell and Ben are all characters in which British television series? A: Butterflies
Q: In pre-decimal currency in the UK, how many florins were in a pound? A: Ten
Q: Who was voted the Cricket Writers’ Club Young Cricketer of the Year in 1963? A: Geoffrey Boycott
Q: Bald-Faced Hornet is another name for which insect? A: Wasp
Q: Choiseul, Guadalcanal and Malaita are all part of which island group? A: Solomon Islands
Q: Which British politician was the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States of America? A: Winston Churchill
Q: In Greek mythology, who went to Colchis to bring the golden Fleece back to Baeotia? A: Jason
Q: What is the name of the building in which Mark and Jeremy live in the UK comedy television series ‘Peep Show’? A: Apollo House
Q: Who became leader of the British Liberal Party in July 1976? A: David Steel
Q: The heart of the 19th Century composer Chopin is said to be preserved in which liquid? A: Cognac
Q: The Kroon is a monetary unit of which European country? A: Estonia
Q: In October 2012, what did the minimum hourly wage rise to, in pounds sterling, for over 21 year olds in the UK? A: 6.19
Q: In medicine, albuminurophobia is the fear of disease of which part of the body? A: Kidney
Q: What is a female antelope called? A: Doe
Q: Which year saw the first indoor Wimbledon Men’s Final? A: 2012
Q: What colour is the berry of a coffee plant? A: Red
Q: Which US duo performed ‘The Concert in the Park’, a free benefit concert in New York in September 1981? A: Simon and Garfunkel
Q: Which cartoon character is usually portrayed wearing yellow checked trousers and scarf? A: Rupert the Bear
Q: What colour is the front door to 11 Downing Street in London? A: Black
Q: How many bottles of Champagne are in a Rehoboam? A: Six
Q: Which painter had a ‘Blue Period’? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Which prehistoric period preceded the Bronze Age? A: Stone Age
Q: What is the capital of the principality of Lichtenstein? A: Vaduz
Q: How many blue stripes are on the national flag of Thailand? A: One
Q: What was former US President Richard Nixon’s profession in 1937? A: Attorney
Q: What type of drink is Tio Pepe? A: Sherry
Q: Christopher Eccleston, Kerry Fox and Ewan McGregor played flatmates in which 1994 film? A: Shallow Grave
Q: Fred the Red is the mascot of which English football club? A: Manchester United FC
Q: How old was Shirley temple when she won a special Juvenile Academy Award? A: Six years old
Q: Which scientist wrote a letter to a friend in 1704 in which he predicted the end of the world in 2060? A: Sir Isaac newton
Q: The Ted Kennedys is a tribute band to which band? A: The Dead Kennedys
Q: Vitis is the Latin name for which fruit-bearing plant? A: Grape Vine
Q: Jan Fischer became Prime Minister of which country in 2009? A: Czech Republic
Q: Who was the first European-born and trained National Hockey League captain to win the Stanley Cup? A: Nicklas Lidstrom
Q: Which British monarch said of his son ‘After I am dead, the boy will ruin himself in 12 months’? A: King George V
Q: Which US state is known as the Sooner State? A: Oklahoma
Q: Which American boxer was born Rocco Francis Marchegiano? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: What does the Latin Phrase ‘Scienta est potentia’ translate to in English? A: Knowledge is power
Q: Which 1990 film was the first western to win Best Picture Oscar for 60 years? A: Dances With Wolves
Q: Astraphobia is the irrational fear of which weather condition? A: Thunder and lightning
Q: How many violins are in a string quartet? A: Two
Q: What was the first name of Marconi, Italian inventor known for his pioneering work on long-distance radio transmission? A: Guglielmo
Q: Statins are drugs which lower what in the blood? A: Cholesterol
Q: In mathematics, how many degrees are in a straight angle? A: 180
Q: Fleeceflower, Monkey Fungus and Hancock’s Curse are all names for which invasive Asian plant? A: Japanese knotweed
Q: The Bay of Fundy, which has the highest tides in the world, is mainly in which country? A: Canada
Q: Parker and Barrow were the surnames of which US outlaw duo? A: Bonnie and Clyde
Q: The Smithsonian Institution, the world’s largest museum and research centre, is in which US city? A: Washington DC
Q: Who directed and starred in the 2000 film ‘Pollock’, about the artist Jackson Pollock? A: Ed Harris
Q: Comic book artist Bob Kane created which superhero in 1939? A: Batman
Q: How many times did Stanley Baldwin become British Prime Minister? A: Three
Q: Which planet has the strongest gravity in our solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: Who plays a lounge singer who has to hide out in a convent after witnessing a gangland killing in the 1992 film ‘Sister Act’? A: Whoopi Goldberg
Q: Who wrote the 1991 novel ‘Gridlock’? A: Ben Elton
Q: The 1972 film ‘Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Sex (But Were Afraid To Ask)’ was directed by and featured who? A: Woody Allen
Q: What is a castrated man (or castrati) called who is placed in charge of a harem? A: Eunuch
Q: In males, posthetomy is the removal of what? A: Foreskin
Q: Who wrote the 18th Century novels ‘Justine, or the Misfortunes of Virtue’ and ‘Philosophy in the Bedroom’? A: Marquis de Sade
Q: Which 1980’s British pop star said ‘I’d rather have a cup of tea than sex’? A: Boy George
Q: Basorexia is a strong desire to do what to a person? A: Kiss
Q: ‘The Temple of Venus’ is a sex museum in which European city? A: Amsterdam
Q: Pygophilia is the sexual arousal by fondling or kissing which part of the body? A: Buttocks
Q: In the human body, a Hottentot Apron (or Sinus Pudoris) is a term used for an elongated what? A: Labia
Q: What is the name of the female friend of children’s television puppet Andy Pandy? A: Looby Loo
Q: In 2000, British television chef Jamie Oliver became the face of which supermarket chain? A: Sainsbury
Q: Bhutan is bordered by which two countries? A: China and India
Q: In May 1990, the World Health Organisation removed what from its list of mental disorders? A: Homosexuality
Q: Dienstag is German for which day of the week? A: Tuesday
Q: How many points is a ‘W’ tile worth in the game of Scrabble? A: 4
Q: In the 2006 film ‘Snakes on a Plane’, the plane takes off from which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: In the book ‘A Bear Called Paddington’ by Michael Bond, what is the name of the Browns’ housekeeper? A: Mrs Bird
Q: US actor Joseph Yule Jr, born September 1920, is better known by what name? A: Mickey Rooney
Q: ‘If I should die, think only this of me: That there is some corner of a foreign field.  That is forever England’ is from which poem by Rupert Brooke A: The Soldier
Q: Who was elected Prime Minister of Australia in March 1983? A: Bob Hawke
Q: Tonitrophobia is the fear of which weather condition? A: Thunder
Q: The name  of which Suzuki motorbike model is Japanese for peregrine falcon? A: Hayabusa
Q: In a 1993 episode of ‘The Simpson’s’ television show, entitled ‘Rosebud’, which US rock band were featured providing music and voices for animated versions of themselves? A: Ramones
Q: Which of the elements has the lowest boiling point? A: Helium
Q: The ‘Shining Path’ is another name for the Communist Party of which South American country? A: Peru
Q: The theme tune to the UK television series ‘The South Bank Show’ is by which composer? A: Andrew Lloyd Webber
Q: A spleenwort is what type of plant? A: Fern
Q: Which Paris airport opened in March 1974? A: Charles de Gaulle Airport
Q: Oscar Madison and Felix Unger are better known as which fictional Neil Simon characters? A: The Odd Couple
Q: In which country is the 1961 Gothic horror film ‘The Pit and the Pendulum’ set? A: Spain
Q: What is the 23rd letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Psi
Q: The Mangla Dam is in which Asian country? A: Pakistan
Q: Who is the speaking voice of Esmeralda in the 1996 Disney film ‘The Hunchback of Notre Dame’? A: Demi Moore
Q: Which English football club is nicknamed ‘The Foxes’? A: Leicester City FC
Q: Which American footballer player was nicknamed ‘The Refrigerator’? A: William Perry
Q: In the US television show ‘The Simpson’s’, what colour are Bart’s shorts? A: Blue
Q: In Greek mythology, what is the name of the son of Daedelus, for whom Dadaelus made wings from feathers and wax so he could escape Crete, but the wax melted when he flew too near to the Sun, and he fell into the sea and drowned? A: Icarus
Q: Scaramanga’s servant Nick Nack is a character in which James Bond film? A: The Man With the Golden Gun
Q: Which British boxer is nicknamed ‘King Khan’? A: Amir Khan
Q: In poetry, an alexandrine is a line of verse comprising how many syllables? A: 12
Q: A group of which birds is known as a Muster or a Phalanx? A: Storks
Q: The Raymond Revue Bar strip club featured in which Beatles film? A: Magical Mystery Tour
Q: What is the title of late actor Spencer Tracy’s last film? A: Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner
Q: The United Nations was created in which US city? A: San Francisco
Q: Oenophobia is the hatred or extreme dislike of which drink? A: Wine
Q: Vientiane is the capital of which Southeast Asian country? A: Laos
Q: Which British television chef has ‘Kitchen Nightmares’? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: Luna is the Roman goddess of which celestial body? A: The Moon
Q: What is the name of the Anthill Mob’s car in the children’s television show ‘Wacky Races’? A: Bulletproof Bomb
Q: Sheila Mercier played which character in the UK television show ‘Emmerdale (Farm)’? A: Annie Sugden
Q: Lake Torrens is in which country? A: Australia
Q: Sir Robert Peel was British Prime Minister for the first time during the reign of which monarch? A: King William IV
Q: How many Summer Olympic Games were held during the 1990’s? A: Two
Q: Which city’s airport is the largest in Latin America? A: Mexico City
Q: Who played Lara Croft in the 2001 film ‘Tomb Raider’? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: Ginocchio is Italian for which part of the body? A: Knee
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in October 1809? A: Spencer Perceval
Q: Lutraphobia is the fear of which animal? A: Otter
Q: The logo for which Japanese car manufacturer features a rounded rectangle with a winged V-shape in the centre? A: Mazda
Q: In which 1950 film do prisoners of war escape from Stalag Luft III? A: The Wooden Horse
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘The Hound of the Baskervilles? A: Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Q: ‘A duck and a flea’ is the Bingo call for which number? A: 23
Q: In January 1990, who became the first modern head of government to give birth whist in office? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: Which is the fourth planet from the Sun? A: Mars
Q: A sika is what type of animal? A: Deer
Q: What is the name of the body of water that separates the Isle of Wight and mainland England? A: The Solent
Q: Who played Great Train Robber Buster Edwards in the 1988 film ‘Buster’? A: Phil Collins
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is Salvatore Bonpensiero’s nickname? A: Big Pussy
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, who shot and killed Richie Aprile? A: Janice Soprano
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, who plays Adriana La Cerva? A: Drea De Matteo
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is Uncle Junior Soprano’s first name? A: Corrado
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the title of the Christopher Moltisanti’s film which premiered in 2007 at a private screening? A: Cleaver
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the name of the nursing home in which Tony Soprano’s mother Livia lived? A: Green Grove
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the first name of Tony and Carmela’s daughter? A: Meadow
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what did Janice Soprano change her name to after joining an ashram in Los Angeles? A: Parvati Wasatch
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, which university did Meadow Soprano attend? A: Columbia University
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the name of the club in Long Beach, New Jersey, in which Christopher set Adriana up as manager? A: Crazy Horse
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the name of the race horse owned by Tony Soprano and Ralph Cifarreto? A: Pie O My
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the nickname of Paulie Gualtieri? A: Walnuts
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, who had to return to Italy after a flirtation with Tony Soprano’s wife Carmela? A: Furio Giunta
Q: Who created the US television show ‘The Sopranos’? A: David Chase
Q: British television commentator Kent Walton was associated with which sport for 33 years? A: Wrestling
Q: In which Hollywood hotel was singer Janis Joplin found dead of an accidental heroin dose? A: Landmark Motor Hotel
Q: RMS Titanic called at which Irish port on her way to America in 1912? A: Queenstown (now COBH)
Q: Psittacosis is a contagious disease that affects which type of birds? A: Parrots
Q: The ‘Chorleywood Process’ is used in the making of which foodstuff? A: Bread
Q: Fotheringhay Castle is in which English county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: During which month of the year is Oak Apple Day  (Royal Oak Day) celebrated? A: May
Q: Joey, Chandler and Ross are all characters from which US television series? A: Friends
Q: What was the name of the ship that housed pirate radio station Radio Caroline, which sank in March 1980? A: MV Mi Amigo
Q: Which famous concert venue is located at 881 Seventh Avenue, New York? A: Carnegie Hall
Q: In February 2007 which Welsh town was twinned with Timbuktu in Africa? A: Hay-on-Wye
Q: Who plays George Carter in the 2012 film ‘The Sweeney’? A: Ben Drew
Q: What is the term for a painting which consists of four or more leaves or panels, usually joined by hinges, and often used as an alterpiece? A: Polyptych
Q: Smiriti is a religious text containing traditional teaching in which religion? A: Hinduism
Q: On a standard dart board, what number lies between 16 and 19? A: 7
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in July 1902? A: Arthur James Balfour
Q: During which month of the year is India Independence celebrated? A: August
Q: Who plays Fanny Brice in the 1968 film ‘Funny Girl’? A: Barbra Streisand
Q: Cou is French for which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: How many stations are there on the Paris Metro rail system? A: 303
Q: Hippoglossus Hippoglossus is the Latin name for which flat fish? A: Halibut
Q: An excerpt from the composition ‘Gran Vals’ by classical guitarist Francisco Tarrega is commonly known as The ‘what’ Tune? A: The Nokia Tune
Q: The county of Pembrokeshire is in which British country? A: Wales
Q: What is the full length of a badminton court in feet? A: 44 feet
Q: Which English monarch founded Eton College? A: King Henry VI
Q: Which artist co-wrote and appeared in the 1927 Luis Bunuel film ‘Un Chien Andalou’? A: Salvador Dali
Q: What was the name of the hurricane that battered New York in October 2012? A: Hurricane Sandy
Q: Late US singer LaDonna Adrian Gaines was better known by what name? A: Donna Summer
Q: Which British monarch was known as ‘Bertie’ to his family? A: King Edward VII
Q: Which planet in our solar system has around 244 Earth days to one year? A: Venus
Q: Incirlik Air Base is located in which European country? A: Turkey
Q: Rhode Island Red is a breed of which bird? A: Chicken
Q: What is the national flower of Scotland? A: Thistle
Q: Lula da Silva was re-elected President of which South American country in 2006? A: Brazil
Q: In the novel ‘1984’, in which ministry is room 101? A: Ministry of Love
Q: In the 2007 film ‘Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street’, was is the first name of Sweeney Todd’s wife? A: Lucy
Q: English artist Damien Hirst was born in which city? A: Bristol
Q: In which James Bond film did Sean Connery wear the Bell Rocket Belt (Jet Pack)? A: Thunderball
Q: The ‘Qumran Scrolls’ are better known by what name? A: Dead Sea Scrolls
Q: What is the name of Mr Carburettor’s mother in the children’s television series ‘Roary the Racing Car’? A: Mama Mia
Q: Remus and Castrol Edge are corners on the  Formula One Grand Prix race track in which country? A: Austria
Q: Myoglobin is the primary oxygen-carrying pigment of which type of body tissue in humans? A: Muscle tissue
Q: A colubrid is what type of creature? A: Snake
Q: The House of Grimaldi has ruled which European principality since 1927? A: Monaco
Q: Convicted felon Henri Charriere was better known by what name? A: Papillon
Q: Jack Dawson is a character in which 1997 Oscar-winning film? A: Titanic
Q: What is the official language of The Netherlands? A: Dutch
Q: Ailurophobia is the irrational fear of which animals? A: Cats
Q: Who plays the deaf man in the 1989 film ‘See No Evil, Hear No Evil’? A: Gene Wilder
Q: Which animal is featured on the logo of car manufacturer Porsche? A: Horse
Q: In September 1850, what was the 31st American state to join the Union? A: California
Q: ‘The Codex Leicester’ (or Codex Hammer) is a collection of mostly scientific writings by which scientist/inventor? A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: The Sankamphaeng Hot Springs are in which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: Who directed the 1973 film ‘Serpico’? A: Sidney Lumet
Q: Which composer wrote the World’s first football chant? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Greenland is an autonomous country within the Kingdom of which other country? A: Denmark
Q: Which Australian band released their album ‘Back in Black’ in July 1980? A: AC/DC
Q: The WPBSA is the governing body of which sports? A: Snooker and billiards
Q: English writer and raconteur Denis Charles Pratt, born December 1908 was better known by what name? A: Quentin Crisp
Q: How many feet in a UK mile? A: 5280
Q: Nocciola is Italian for which nut? A: Hazelnut
Q: What is the title of the third film in the ‘Twilight Saga’ series? A: Eclipse
Q: In which English city was singer Chuck Berry’s live recording of ‘My Ding-A-Ling’ recorded in 1972? A: Coventry
Q: The islands of Oahu, Molokai and Lanai are part of which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: Which US comedian was the first celebrity guest to appear as himself in a episode of the US television series ‘Hannah Montana’? A: Larry David
Q: In which year did golfer Tiger Woods turn professional? A: 1996
Q: Musician Richey Edwards, who went missing in February 1995, was the rhythm guitarist in which band? A: Manic Street Preachers
Q: Developed by IBM, Deep Blue was a computer that played what? A: Chess
Q: A group of which animals is known as a cackle? A: Hyenas
Q: Which US record label was bought by Polygram in August 1993? A: Motown
Q: A ‘Flower Moon’ is the traditional name for the first full moon of which month of the year? A: May
Q: What is the official fruit of New York, USA? A: Apple
Q: Annapolis is the capital of which US state? A: Maryland
Q: Which English actress was born Julia Wells in 1935? A: Julie Andrews
Q: ‘Tacky’s War’ (or Tacky’s Rebellion) was a 1760 uprising of black African slaves in which British colony? A: Jamaica
Q: What is the subtitle of the 1965 song ‘Norwegian Wood’ by The Beatles? A: This Bird Has Flown
Q: Ophidian relates to which creature? A: Snake
Q: What is the title of Alex Comfort’s best-selling illustrated manual, first published in October 1972? A: The Joy of Sex
Q: The eight year old daughter of which British politician was left behind in a pub in Buckinghamshire after a family lunch in April 2012? A: David Cameron
Q: Fiorello LaGuardia was mayor of which city from 1934 to 1945? A: New York
Q: Which British rhythm and blues/jazz singer and keyboard player was born Clive Powell in June 1943? A: Georgie Fame
Q: Who was the Vice President of former US President Bill Clinton? A: Al Gore
Q: Which four herbs are mentioned in the Simon and Garfunkel song ‘Scarborough Fair’? A: Parsley, Sage, Rosemary and Thyme
Q: In a standard game of chess, how many knights does each player start with? A: Two
Q: In 2008, Sarah Stevenson became Britain’s first Olympic medallist in which martial art? A: Taekwondo
Q: On a regular clock face, which number lies opposite 10? A: 4
Q: Arachnids usually have how many legs? A: Eight
Q: The English resort of Bournemouth lies on which body of water? A: English Channel
Q: ‘Fraulein…..have my children by any chance been climbing trees today’? Is a line from which musical film? A: The Sound of Music
Q: On the human body, Walrus, Pencil and Toothbrush are all types of what? A: Moustache
Q: Which mountain is known as ‘The White Spider’? A: Eiger (North Face)
Q: Members of the 1966 World Cup winning English football team, Bobby Moore, Martin Peters and Geoff Hurst played for which league team? A: West Ham FC
Q: What is the name of the four-footed herbivorous dinosaurs, with small heads and a double row of large bony plates along the back? A: Stegosaurus
Q: In which colour strip does the England football team traditionally play home games? A: White
Q: What is the name of the wizard and Leader of the Fellowship of the Ring in Tolkein’s ‘The Lord of the Rings’? A: Gandalf
Q: Orso is Italian for which animal? A: Bear
Q: What is the first name of Jamaican-born retired boxer Razor Ruddock? A: Donovan
Q: The Notting Hill Carnival in London is held during which month of the year? A: August
Q: Which composer wrote the ‘Brandenburg Concertos’? A: Johann Sebastian Bach
Q: A florican is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: What is the Latin phrase ‘ad lib’ short for? A: Ad libitum
Q: Who starred as Lieutenant Danny Roman in the 1998 film ‘The Negotiator’? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: Stonewall is a CDP (Census-designated place) in which US state? A: Texas
Q: In which 1955 film does actor Robert Mitchum play a psychopathic self-appointed preacher? A: The Night of the Hunter
Q: What is the first name of former world number one professional tennis player McEnroe? A: John
Q: What is a female guinea pig called? A: Sow
Q: Ladies in White is an opposition movement, consisting of wives and female relatives of jailed dissidents, in which country? A: Cuba
Q: Which city is the start and finish of the 1873 novel ‘Around the World in Eighty Days’? A: London
Q: Singer/actor Will Young made in his London West End stage debut in which musical? A: Cabaret
Q: Sligo, Galway and Limerick are all cities in which European country? A: Ireland
Q: Robinson Crusoe Island lies off the coast of which South American country? A: Chile
Q: Which English-Australian singer had a 1962 hit single entitled ‘I Remember You’? A: Frank Ifield
Q: Holly Hagan, Scott Timlin, Vicky Pattison and Daniel Thomas-Tuck have all appeared in which UK television reality show? A: Geordie Shore
Q: How many balls are used in a game of Association Croquet? A: Four
Q: Film producer, director and writer Gerry Anderson was born in which city in April 1929? A: London
Q: ‘Four ‘what’ Falls’ was the third puppet television show produced by Gerry Anderson for Granada Television? A: Feather
Q: What is the name of the Doctor of Space Medicine, voiced by Sylvia Anderson, in the children’s television series ‘Fireball XL5’? A: Doctor Venus
Q: How many sons does Jeff Tracy have in the children’s television series ‘Thunderbirds’? A: Five
Q: What is the surname of Joe in the children’s television series ‘Joe 90’? A: McClaine
Q: Produced in the UK between 1961 and 1962, what was the first UK Gerry Anderson series to be shown overseas? A: Supercar
Q: What was the name of the children’s television show, created by Gerry and Sylvia Anderson, which followed the adventures of Father Stanley Unwin? A: The Secret Service
Q: What is the name of the sheriff in the children’s television series ‘Four Feather Falls’, co-created by Gerry Anderson? A: Tex Tucker
Q: What is the name of the ‘hoverchair’ bound commander in the children’s television series ‘Stingray’? A: Samuel Shore
Q: What colour sash does Alan Tracy wear in the children’s television series ‘Thunderbirds’? A: White
Q: What is the name of the pilot of The Battlehawk in the children’s television series ‘Terrahawks’? A: Captain Mary Falconer
Q: In 1991, Gerry Anderson directed the video for which Dire Straits album, which featured Thunderbirds puppets? A: Calling Elvis
Q: In the children’s television series ‘Four Feather Falls’, which British radio and television presenter provided the voice of Tex Tucker? A: Nicholas Parsons
Q: Doctor Beaker, Zarin, Mitch the Monkey and Professor Popkiss are all characters from which children’s television series created by Gerry Anderson? A: Supercar
Q: What is the name of the Tracy family’s manservant in the children’s television series ‘Thunderbirds’? A: Kyrano
Q: Which boyband represented the UK in the 2011 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Blue
Q: Who wrote the 1902 play ‘The Admirable Crichton’? A: J M Barrie
Q: English sportswoman Laura Davies is associated with which sport? A: Golf
Q: Inkberry, Carolina and Hawaiian are all varieties of which garden plant? A: Holly
Q: Suint is a natural grease formed from the dried perspiration on the coat of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: What is the name of the female demon, or supernatural entity, believed to have sex with a sleeping man? A: Succubus
Q: Who wrote the 19th Century novel ‘Little Women’? A: Louisa May Alcott
Q: Which planet has the biggest moon in our solar system? A: Jupiter
Q: Equus quagga is the scientific name for which animal? A: Zebra
Q: FC Jazz is a football club in which European country? A: Finland
Q: US jazz Musician Thelonious Monk played which instrument? A: Piano
Q: What is the main ingredient of the dish falafel? A: Chick peas
Q: What is the first name of Captain Mainwaring in the UK television series ‘Dad’s Army’? A: George
Q: Sharon Stone plays Ginger McKenna Rothstein in which 1995 film? A: Casino
Q: The tragus is found in which part of the human body? A: Ear
Q: In the children’s nursery rhyme, where was ‘The Cock Horse’ ridden to? A: Banbury Cross
Q: Which European band released the album ‘The Joshua Tree’ in 1987? A: U2
Q: US President Bill Clinton belonged to which political party? A: Democratic Party
Q: During which year where same-sex marriages legalised in New York City? A: 2011
Q: Who wrote the 1881 novel ‘The Prince and the Pauper’? A: Mark Twain
Q: Chinstrap, Macaroni, Humboldt and Gentoo are all species of which creature? A: Penguin
Q: Pediophobia is the irrational fear of which playthings? A: Dolls
Q: Which number Amendment to the United States Constitution outlaws slavery? A: Thirteenth
Q: Audrey Forbes-Hamilton was played by Penelope Keith in which British television series? A: To the Manor Born
Q: Gingerbread men were first attributed to which English monarch, who allegedly served them to foreign dignitaries? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: Which actor said, in the film ‘World’s Greatest Dad’, ‘I used to think the worst thing in life was to end up all alone.   It’s not.  The worst thing in life is to end up with people who make you feel all alone’? A: Robin Williams
Q: Hexakosioihexekontahexaphobia is the fear of which number? A: 666
Q: English footballer Frank Lampard played for which club from 1995 to 2001? A: West Ham United FC
Q: What is the only city in the English county of Somerset? A: Wells
Q: Aston, Digbeth and Ladywood are all areas of which British city? A: Birmingham
Q: Who directed the 1993 film ‘Much Ado About Nothing’? A: Kenneth Branagh
Q: In broadcasting and music, what is ‘amp’ short for? A: Amplifier
Q: How many inches in a UK mile? A: 63,360
Q: Who was elected President of France in June 1969? A: Georges Pompidou
Q: Blocking, Second, Weaving and Feint are terms used in which sport? A: Boxing
Q: Gennaio is Italian for which month of the year? A: January
Q: In the US television series ‘Cheers’, in which year was the bar established? A: 1895
Q: The words of Beethoven’s 9th Symphony (The Choral) were taken from which poem by Friedrich Schiller? A: Ode to Joy
Q: In Christianity, ‘Holy Wednesday’ is also known as ‘what’ Wednesday? A: Spy Wednesday
Q: What is the surname of the brothers Richard and Robert who wrote songs for Disney films? A: Sherman
Q: Which letter of the English alphabet is in the title of a series of television shows starring Spike Milligan? A: Q
Q: During which century did the Battle of Agincourt take place? A: 15th Century
Q: What is the only city in the English county of Cornwall? A: Truro
Q: Which Beatles hit song originally had the working title ‘Scrambled Eggs’? A: Yesterday
Q: The Bermuda Bowl is a biennial world championship tournament in which game? A: Contract Bridge
Q: Actor Kenneth Branagh was born in which UK city? A: Belfast
Q: Batting, Cornerstones, Sashing and Layer Cake are all terms used in which handicraft? A: Quilting
Q: Frounce is a disease of the mouth and throat of which creatures? A: Birds
Q: In which year were Jumping Jack fireworks banned from sale in the UK? A: 1997
Q: Which British Overseas Territory is located on the southern end of the Iberian Peninsula at the entrance of the Mediterranean, and has an area of approximately 2.6 square miles? A: Gibraltar
Q: Supermodel Elle McPherson was born in which country? A: Australia
Q: Bat and Ball is a railway station in which English county? A: Kent
Q: In which year did Winston Churchill retire as British Prime Minister? A: 1955
Q: In the Bible, which son of Jacob and Rachel could interpret dreams? A: Joseph
Q: Penderyn whisky is made in which European country? A: Wales
Q: In which country was singer Frank Ifield born in November 1937? A: England
Q: What is the legal minimum age for marriage for men in India? A: 21 years
Q: Soeur is French for which member of the family? A: Sister
Q: Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood are judges on which UK television cookery show? A: The Great British Bake Off
Q: Which James Bond villain has the first name Auric? A: Goldfinger
Q: What was the first name of Anglo-Irish statesman and diplomat Downing, who Downing Street in London was named after? A: George
Q: The name of which element comes from the Greek word for sun? A: Helium
Q: Which Ray Bradbury book was expanded and had the original title ‘The Fireman’? A: Fahrenheit 451
Q: Which 1851 novel has the alternative title ‘The Whale’? A: Moby Dick
Q: Holden Caulfield is the anithero in which novel by J D Salinger? A: Catcher in the Rye
Q: Charlotte Bronte wrote the novel Jane Eyre under which pen name? A: Currer Bell
Q: British novelist Zadie Smith won the 2006 Orange Prize for Fiction for which novel? A: On Beauty
Q: What is the name of the fictional forensic psychologist in the series of novels by US author James Patterson? A: Alex Cross
Q: Wife of Bath, Manciple, Man of Law and Nun’s Priest are all stories in which collection? A: The Canterbury Tales
Q: ‘Light a Penny Candle’ was the debut novel of which Irish author? A: Maeve Binchy
Q: Which novel by Charles Dickens has sold the most copies? A: A Tale of Two Cities
Q: ‘What a lot of hairy-faced men there are around nowadays’ is the opening line of which book by Roald Dahl? A: The Twits
Q: Which 1886 novel by Thomas Hardy is subtitled ‘The Life and Death of a Man of Character’? A: The Mayor of Casterbridge
Q: In the 1876 novel ‘The Adventures of Tom Sawyer’ by Mark Twain, what is the name of Tom’s half brother who lives with Tom and his aunt Polly? A: Sid
Q: Which British author wrote the 1928 novel ‘Orlando: A Biography’? A: Virginia Woolf
Q: What is the first name of Gatsby in the novel ‘The Great Gatsby’ by F Scott Fitzgerald? A: Jay
Q: Which of Agatha Christie’s novels was the first to feature Miss Marple? A: The Murder at the Vicarage
Q: What is the nickname of the youngest child of late US singer Michael Jackson? A: Blanket (Prince Michael II)
Q: Food brand Knorr was founded in which country? A: Germany
Q: Cronian relates to which planet in our solar system? A: Saturn
Q: Who wrote the 1869 novel ‘Lorna Doone’? A: R D Blackmore
Q: Greenburst, Zohar, Munchkin and Kong are all varieties of which flower? A: Sunflower
Q: What is the name of the loose, white wide-sleeved linen vestment worn over a cassock by clergy and choristers at Christian services? A: Surplice
Q: English highwayman Dick Turpin was executed in 1739 in which city? A: York
Q: In the play by Shakespeare, what is the first name of Hamlet’s mother? A: Gertrude
Q: Which chemical compound  has the molecular formula H2O2? A: Hydrogen peroxide
Q: A Spur Royal was a rare English gold coin, first issued during the reign of which monarch? A: King James I
Q: Who was the leader of the Greek forces during the Trojan War? A: Agamemnon
Q: Which New York landmark is known as ‘The Crossroads of the World’? A: Times Square
Q: Who directed the 1994 film ‘Natural Born Killers’? A: Oliver Stone
Q: What is the surname of Cliff in the US television series ‘Cheers’? A: Clavin
Q: French professional footballer Thierry Henry played for which English football club from 1999 A: Arsenal FC
Q: In music, an axe is a slang term for which instrument? A: Guitar
Q: Which English author said ‘Freedom is the right to tell people what they do not want to hear’? A: George Orwell
Q: Anpan is a sweet roll, usually filled with red bean paste, which originates from which country? A: Japan
Q: Which Shropshire town is known for its gingerbread? A: Market Drayton
Q: Which vegetable is associated with a person who spends a lot of time sitting or lying down, usually watching television? A: (Couch) Potato
Q: The Real Estate investments of which US President were investigated in the ‘Whitewater Scandal’? A: Bill Clinton
Q: The disease bovine spongiform encephalopathy is commonly known by what name? A: Mad Cow Disease
Q: Chirophobia is the irrational fear of which part of the body? A: Hands
Q: In the 1964 film ‘Goldfinger’, what is the name of the team of Goldfinger’s all-female pilots? A: Flying Circus
Q: The unicorn on the British coat of arms represents which country? A: Scotland
Q: Which birds are depicted on the corners of the 61st floor of the Chrysler Building in New York? A: Eagles
Q: Late American singer/songwriter Buddy Holly was born in which state in 1936? A: Texas
Q: In May 1987 the first ever Rugby Union World Cup was won by which nation? A: New Zealand
Q: The early medieval inhabitants of which English county were known as the Cantwara? A: Kent
Q: The Fat ‘what’ is a cake make nationally famous by Bettys Cafe Tea Rooms in North Yorkshire? A: Rascal
Q: The Stratocaster and Telecaster guitars are manufactured by which company? A: Fender
Q: Which fictional ‘super heroine’ is the alter-ego of Barbara Gordon? A: Batgirl
Q: A ‘Gordie Howe Hat Trick’ is when a player scores a goal, notches an assist and gets into a fight all in the same game while playing what? A: Ice Hockey
Q: Which actor appeared in the most ‘Carry On’ films? A: Kenneth Williams
Q: The statue of Eros in Piccadilly Circus London is cast in which metal? A: Aluminium
Q: Pecora is Italian for which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Boxer Lennox Lewis was born in which city? A: London
Q: Who was the English voice of television cartoon character Danger Mouse? A: David Jason
Q: ‘White Teeth’ was the award-winning 2000 debut novel of which British author? A: Zadie Smith
Q: Taurophobia is the abnormal fear of which animal? A: Bull
Q: ‘Dogsbody’ was the radio call sign for which World War II British fighter pilot? A: Douglas Bader
Q: The Giant panda is native to which country? A: China
Q: The 1857 Sepoy Mutiny took place in which country? A: India
Q: Bohol, Masbate, Luzon and Jolo are all part of which island group? A: Philippines
Q: The first ‘Heroes Welcome’, a scheme designed to encourage British communities to demonstrate support to members of the Armed Forces, was launched in 2008 in which North Yorkshire resort town? A: Scarborough
Q: Which US boxer, born February 1977, has the nickname ‘Pretty Boy’? A: Floyd Mayweather Jr
Q: Which English coastal resort is known as ‘London-by-the-sea’? A: Brighton
Q: What was the middle name of US inventor Thomas Edison? A: Alva
Q: Which year saw the first commercial Concorde flight? A: 1976
Q: In medicine, a spirometer is an instrument for measuring the air capacity of which part of the body? A: Lungs
Q: How many legs does a wasp have? A: Six
Q: What is the middle name of British singer David Bowie? A: Robert
Q: The painting entitled ‘The View if Tinherir’ is a work by which British Prime Minister? A: Winston Churchill
Q: A caldera is a feature of which natural structure? A: Volcano
Q: In the US, National Ice Cream Day, the third Sunday in July, was designated by which President? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: Bayer Designations relate to which celestial bodies? A: Stars
Q: Bump, Campfire, Joust and Pancake are all terms used in which sport? A: Volleyball
Q: According to the television advert, which website gets confused with ‘Compare The Market’? A: Compare The Meerkat
Q: How many cards are in each suit in a standard deck of cards? A: 13
Q: What is the name of cartoon character Mickey Mouse’s pet dog? A: Pluto
Q: Who sang the 1964 hit single ‘Chapel of Love’? A: The Dixie Cups
Q: Who played the chimney sweep Bert in the 1964 film ‘Mary Poppins’? A: Dick Van Dyke
Q: Harry Redknapp is associated with which British sport? A: Football
Q: How many events make up a pentathlon? A: Five
Q: In art, what are the three primary colours? A: Red, Yellow, Blue
Q: In the children’s novel ‘Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland’ by Lewis Carroll, which birds are used as croquet mallets? A: Flamingoes
Q: Which is the only bird in the Chinese Zodiac? A: Rooster
Q: How many ‘Steps’ are there in the novel by John Buchan? A: Thirty-nine
Q: What is the cube root of 1,000? A: 10
Q: By what name is British DJ Norman Cook better known? A: Fatboy Slim
Q: Who plays Stephen in the 2012 film ‘Django Unchained’? A: Samuel L Jackson
Q: An Austringer is a person who hunts with which creature? A: Hawks
Q: What is the surname of Roger Daltry’s character Tommy in the 1975 film ‘Tommy’? A: Walker
Q: Which 1975 Judith Rossner novel is based on the events surrounding the brutal murder of 28 year old New York school teacher Roseann Quinn? A: Looking For Mr Goodbar
Q: St Andrews Road, Anderson Bridge and Raffles Boulevard are all sections of the Formula One Grand Prix track in which country? A: Singapore
Q: Which animal is known as River Horse? A: Hippopotamus
Q: In the Painting ‘The Last Supper’ by Leonardo Da Vinci, who is said to be seated on the right-hand side of Jesus? A: Judas Escariot
Q: Which US fashion designer directed the 2009 film ‘A Single Man’? A: Tom Ford
Q: ‘El Draque’ was the Spanish nickname of which English sea captain and privateer? A: Francis Drake
Q: In the Jewish calendar, what is the third month of the religious year called? A: Sivan
Q: During which year did the first RHS Chelsea Flower Show take place? A: 1913
Q: Who played George Russell in the 1960’s UK television series ‘George and the Dragon’? A: Sid James
Q: Pearl Jem is a tribute band to which well known band? A: Pearl Jam
Q: Which is the fifth largest country in the world by area? A: Brazil
Q: In which year was British monarch Queen Victoria born? A: 1819
Q: Thermophobia is the abnormal fear of what? A: Heat
Q: A square knot is another term for which type of knot? A: Reef knot
Q: What was the middle name of late US author Truman Capote? A: Streckfus
Q: The Stotinka is a unit of currency of which European country? A: Bulgaria
Q: A Spartan is what type of fruit? A: Apple
Q: Bee, Giant and Broad-tailed are all species of which bird? A: Hummingbird
Q: Who founded the Standard Oil Company in 1870? A: J D Rockefeller
Q: Athlete Usain Bolt advertised which media company’s products in 2012? A: Virgin
Q: Siderodromophilia is the sexual arousal caused by which means of transport? A: Trains
Q: What is the surname of the siblings Harriet, James and John in the Charles Dickens novel ‘Dombey and Son’? A: Carker
Q: Bara Brith is a fruit bread originating in which country? A: Wales
Q: What is the name of the road tunnel which opened in Switzerland in September 1980, and is almost 17 kilometres long? A: St Gotthard Tunnel
Q: English singer/songwriter Lynsey Monckton Rubin is better known by what name? A: Lynsey De Paul
Q: Zimt is German for which spice? A: Cinnamon
Q: Ambergris is a waxy substance used in perfumery and is believed to originate in the intestines of which creatures? A: Sperm whales
Q: Which planet in our solar system was discovered by Johann Galle and Heinrich D’Arrest in 1846? A: Neptune
Q: What is the US state capital of Maine? A: Augusta
Q: Late US singer/songwriter Jiles Perry Richardson Jr, born October 1930, was better known by what name? A: The Big Bopper
Q: In the US, Thanksgiving Day falls on the fourth Thursday of which month? A: November
Q: The Polar Music Prize is an annual award in which country for significant achievements in music? A: Sweden
Q: Which British monarch was born Albert Frederick Arthur George? A: King George VI
Q: American real estate developer and rancher Mary Anderson is credited with inventing which operational part of a car in 1903? A: Windscreen wiper
Q: The Hilsa is the national fish of which Asian country? A: Bangladesh
Q: Which creature represents the Deadly Sin of pride? A: Peacock
Q: During 1897, the World’s first radio station was set up by Marconi at the Needles Battery at the western tip of which European island? A: Isle of Wight
Q: A silkie is what type of bird? A: Chicken
Q: What is the title of Timothy Dalton’s first James Bond film? A: The Living Daylights
Q: Which British city was European Capital of Culture in 1990? A: Glasgow
Q: Goodbye Teens is the bingo call for which number? A: 19
Q: On which island is the 2001 film ‘The Others’ set? A: Jersey
Q: Selenophobia is the abnormal fear of which celestial body? A: The moon
Q: Composer Edvard Grieg was born in which country? A: Norway
Q: Billy the Badger is the mascot of which English football club? A: Fulham FC
Q: What is the first name of Joey’s nephew in the US television series ‘Joey’? A: Michael
Q: Robin and Giles are the sons of which British Prime Minister? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which animal represented the year 2010 in the Chinese calendar? A: Tiger
Q: What is the name of the fictional Italian tenor in the UK ‘Go Compare’ television adverts? A: Gio Compario
Q: How many points are there on a compass? A: 32
Q: Which late actor/comedian is credited with saying ‘A day without laughter is a day wasted’? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: What was the nickname of late US boxer Michael Dokes? A: Dynamite
Q: Poet W H Auden died in which European city in 1973? A: Vienna
Q: Which London performing arts centre, the largest in Europe, opened on 3rd March 1982? A: Barbican Centre
Q: Which US actor did Elvis Presley’s daughter, Lisa Marie, marry in 2002? A: Nicholas Cage
Q: Which former footballer and manager co-wrote the UK television series ‘Hazell’? A: Terry Venables
Q: Who is the patron saint of Winchester Cathedral in England? A: Saint Swithun
Q: During which year was the ‘Red Card’ introduced in the game of football in England? A: 1976
Q: English singer David Bowie was born with which surname? A: Jones
Q: Which disease acquired its name in 1976 when an outbreak of pneumonia occurred among people attending a convention of the American Legion in Philadelphia? A: Legionnaires Disease
Q: Which African country is known as the ‘Great Red Island’? A: Madagascar
Q: Alana Hamilton, Penny Lancaster and Rachel Hunter have all been married to which British singer? A: Rod Stewart
Q: Which opera by Richard Strauss was banned in London by the Lord Chamberlains’s Office until 1907? A: Salome
Q: The aria ‘Un bel di vedremo’ (One fine day) is from which opera by Giacomo Puccini? A: Madame Butterfly
Q: The one-act comic opera ‘Bastien und Bastienne’ was the first by which composer aged 12? A: Mozart
Q: What is the title of the only opera written by Beethoven? A: Fidelio
Q: The first public opera house opened in 1637 in which European city? A: Venice
Q: Gioachino Rossini wrote the opera ‘The ‘what’ of Seville’? A: Barber
Q: What was the first name of Italian tenor Caruso, born in 1873? A: Enrico
Q: Who composed the 19th Century opera ‘La Boheme’? A: Giacomo Puccini
Q: Tamino, Sarastro, Pamina and Papageno are all characters from which opera by Mozart? A: The Magic Flute
Q: In 1991, who made 101 curtain calls and set a world record of one hour 20 minutes for applause for his role in Verdi’s ‘Otello’? A: Placido Domingo
Q: The opera ‘Deliverence of Theseus’ by Darius Milhaud lasts how many minutes? A: Seven minutes
Q: Which opera singer was born Claire Mary Teresa Rawston in 1944? A: Kiri Te Kanawa
Q: ‘Premiere’ is the 2004 debut album of which opera singer? A: Katherine Jenkins
Q: Which opera by Puccini was completed after his death by Franco Alfano? A: Turandot
Q: Carlos Marin, Urs Buhler, Sebastien Izambard and David Miller are members of which operatic pop vocal group? A: Il Divo
Q: ‘I Don’t Know How to Love Him’ is a song from which rock opera? A: Jesus Christ Superstar
Q: Which English city is known as ‘The Merry City’? A: Wakefield
Q: The Chiffon cake, made with vegetable oil instead of butter, originated in which country? A: USA
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘The Curse of Mexico’? A: Two of spades
Q: What is the name of the Muppet rock band which features on the children’s television show ‘The Muppet Show’? A: Dr Teeth and the Electric Mayhem
Q: In the human body, Inguinal, Femoral, Epigastric ans Spigelian are all types of what? A: Hernias
Q: Cuthbert Ottaway was the first captain of which national football team in their first official international match? A: England
Q: Late actress Greta Garbo was born in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: What was the name of American frontiersman Davy Crockett’s rifle which was presented to him for his service in the Tennessee State Assembly? A: Old Betsy
Q: The icing on a Tompouce cake is traditionally which colour? A: Pink
Q: Which are the four mutable signs of the Zodiac? A: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces
Q: Cascade, Mills Mess, Backcross and Tramline Pass are all terms used in which activity? A: Juggling
Q: Which are the two main ingredients in a Fluffernutter sandwich? A: Marshmallow and peanut butter
Q: What is the national bird of India? A: Peacock
Q: What type of tool is a Stillson? A: Wrench
Q: What is the county town of Kent, England? A: Maidstone
Q: Charles Ryder and Sebastian Flyte are characters in which 1980’s UK television drama series? A: Brideshead Revisited
Q: What is the first name of former Irish boxer Barry McGuigan? A: Finbarr
Q: In June 1987, which country introduced a one dollar coin nicknamed the ‘Loonie’? A: Canada
Q: Silicon Alley is a nickname for an area with a concentration of Internet and new media companies in which city? A: New York
Q: Which animal is the subject of the 1984 film ‘A Private Function’? A: Pig
Q: Former World Number One professional tennis player Arantxa Vicario was born in which country? A: Spain
Q: How many sisters did Prince Philip, The Duke of Edinburgh, have? A: Four
Q: Manor Farm at Dingley Dell features in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: The Pickwick Papers
Q: Which scientist is credited with saying ‘The one who follows the crowd will usually get further than the crowd.  Those who walk alone are likely to find themselves in places no one has ever been before’? A: Albert Einstein
Q: The Chromatic Scale is a musical scale with how many pitches or notes? A: 12
Q: Former professional footballer Neil Ruddock played for which English club from 1986 to 1988? A: Tottenham Hotspur FC
Q: Cathays, Splott and Fairwater are all areas of which British city? A: Cardiff
Q: Which was the first planet in our solar system to be discovered by telescope? A: Uranus
Q: In Greek mythology who slayed the Hydra of Lerna? A: Heracles
Q: Actress Jill St John appeared in which James Bond film? A: Diamonds Are Forever
Q: What is the first real name of singer Leo Sayer? A: Gerard
Q: Which British former Junior Health Minister claimed that  Northerners were dying of ‘ignorance and chips’? A: Edwina Curry
Q: Unicum, Fusilier, Black Parrot and Zurel are all varieties of which garden flower? A: Tulip
Q: What is the first name of Leonard’s chauffeur in the UK television series ‘Butterflies’? A: Thomas
Q: Who wrote the 1979 novel ‘The Executioner’s Song’? A: Norman Mailer
Q: Terra is another name for which planet in our solar system? A: Earth
Q: Australian sportsman Ricky Ponting is associated with which sport? A: Cricket
Q: What is the name of the dog in Enid Blyton’s ‘Secret Seven’? A: Scamper
Q: Which word replaced ‘Bachelor’ and ‘Spinster’ on UK marriage certificates? A: Single
Q: Which meat is traditionally used in a Stroganoff dish? A: Beef
Q: Mr Grainger, Mr Humphries and Captain Peacock are all characters in which UK television series? A: Are You Being Served?
Q: How many London Underground stations lie outside the M25 London Orbital motorway? A: Five
Q: The Benwood, known as one of the most dived shipwrecks in the world, lies off which US state? A: Florida
Q: The 1970’s ‘Cod Wars’ were over fishing rights between the UK and which other country? A: Iceland
Q: Michel Martelly became President of which Caribbean country in May 2011? A: Haiti
Q: Sphagnum is what type of plant? A: Moss
Q: ‘Arundells’ was the home of which British Prime Minister? A: Edward Heath
Q: Captain Phoebus, Clopin and Esmeralda are all characters from which 1996 Disney film? A: The Hunchback of Notre Dame
Q: What is the 22nd letter of the Greek alphabet? A: Chi
Q: What are the bars or wire rods called which connect the hub of a wheel to its rim? A: Spokes
Q: Who was the first serving US President to visit Australia? A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: The Kaizer Chiefs is a premier league football team in which country? A: South Africa
Q: In September 1983, 38 Irish Republican Army prisoners escaped from which prison in the largest prison escape in British history? A: Maze Prison
Q: Who was British Poet Laureate 1850 to 1892, the longest tenure of any British laureate? A: Alfred Tennyson
Q: In June 1975, Mozambique gained independence from which European country? A: Portugal
Q: US film director and actor Shelton Jackson Lee is better known by what name? A: Spike Lee
Q: Who won the 1990 Wimbledon Ladies Singles Tennis Championship? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: Which British television chef was reported as saying ‘Michelin Stars, they’re my past’? A: Marco Pierre White
Q: Porphyrophobia is the irrational fear of, or aversion to, which colour? A: Purple
Q: Ozzy Osbourne, lead singer and frontman of the band Black Sabbath, was born in which British city? A: Birmingham
Q: Eton College is in which English county? A: Berkshire
Q: What is the surname of Muppet Dr Bunsen in the children’s television series ‘The Muppets’? A: Honeydew
Q: Which French President was nicknamed ‘The Great Asparagus’? A: Charles De Gaulle
Q: The Barbary Partridge is the national bird of which British Overseas Territory? A: Gibraltar
Q: Which English king was known as ‘The Confessor’? A: Edward
Q: What is the nickname of the London building at 30, St Mary Axe? A: The Gherkin
Q: The River Cafe Restaurant in London specialises in the cuisine of which country? A: Italy
Q: ‘Le Tour du Monde en Quatre-Vingt Jours’ is the French title if which novel? A: Around the World in Eighty Days
Q: Carving, Herringbone, Runout and Tail are all terms used in which sport? A: Skiing
Q: The Sylvian Fissure is found in which organ of the human body? A: Brain
Q: During which year did the Channel Tunnel, between England and France, open? A: 1994
Q: Which English professional footballer has the tattoo ‘Just Enough Education To Perform’ on his right arm? A: Wayne Rooney
Q: How many birds are depicted on the logo of food and confectionery company Nestle? A: Three
Q: The Five Sisters of ‘where’ appear in a story told in the novel ‘Nicholas Nickleby’ by Charles Dickens? A: York
Q: Which US city hosted the 2002 Winter Olympic Games? A: Salt Lake City
Q: Jeanne Louise Calment, the only person confirmed to have reached over 122 years of age, was born in which country in 1875? A: France
Q: Howard and Hilda Hughes are characters in which 1980’s BBC television series? A: Ever Decreasing Circles
Q: ‘The Cloud Club’, which closed in 1979,  occupied the 66th, 67th and 68th floors of which New York building? A: The Chrysler Building
Q: Which UK comedy drama was set mostly in the fictional Lancashire mining town of Utterley in the 1930’s? A: Brass
Q: Which US President was born William Jefferson Blythe III? A: Bill Clinton
Q: The Straddle Technique was a style performed in which athletics event? A: High Jump
Q: British television puppet Lenny the Lion belonged to which ventriloquist? A: Terry Hall
Q: In the game of bridge, which card is known as the Beer Card? A: Seven of Diamonds
Q: In an Edward Lear poem, who has a Luminous Nose? A: The Dong
Q: Neopolitan ice cream is traditionally made up of how many flavours? A: Three
Q: What is the maximum length, in metres, of a bowling green? A: 40 metres
Q: A Sachertorte is a type of chocolate cake which originated in which country? A: Austria
Q: Which army rank does actor Windsor Davies play in the UK television series ‘It Ain’t Half Hot Mum’? A: Battery Sergeant Major
Q: Stringhalt is a nervous disorder which affects the legs of which animal? A: Horse
Q: What was the family name of the famous British aristocratic sisters Unity, Jessica, Nancy, Diana, Pamela and Deborah? A: Mitford
Q: Tennis player Yannick Noah was born in which country? A: France
Q: Who wrote the 19th Century ‘The Palliser’ series of novels? A: Anthony Trollope
Q: In the UK television series ‘Absolutely Fabulous’, what is Patsy’s surname? A: Stone
Q: In the human body, sudorific relates to or causes what? A: Sweating
Q: Barouche, Phaeton, Surrey and Curnicle are all types of what? A: Horse-drawn carriage
Q: How many crowned Tudor monarchs did England have? A: Five
Q: Which modern-day country was once known as Zipangu? A: Japan
Q: What is a male honey bee called? A: Drone
Q: What was the name of the Greek musician who rescued his wife Eurydice from the underworld, but lost her again when he turned back to look at her before they reached the upperworld? A: Orpheus
Q: The city of New York was named after the brother of which English monarch? A: King Charles II
Q: Who wrote the 19th Century book ‘Notes on Nursing. What It is and What It Is Not’? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: The Scottish dish Kilted Sausages is sausages wrapped in what? A: Bacon
Q: Film actor Jeanne Claud van Dam is nicknamed The ‘what’ From Brussels? A: Muscles
Q: Egyptian actor Michel Demitri Chalhoub is better known by what name? A: Omar Sharif
Q: Which US space probe completed the first mission to the planet Jupiter? A: Pioneer 10
Q: In 1933, US President Franklin D Roosevelt signed Executive Order 6102 which banned US citizens from hoarding what? A: Gold
Q: Dupion, Habotai and Noil are all types of which fabric? A: Silk
Q: Not including the centre square, how many Double Word squares are there on a standard Scrabble board? A: 16
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Suum cuique’ translate to in English? A: To each his own
Q: Spessartine (or Spessartite) is what type of gemstone? A: Garnet
Q: A logophile is a lover of what? A: Words
Q: Yellowstone National Park is located primarily in which US state? A: Wyoming
Q: Which is the only US state to have two rivers both with the same name? A: Florida
Q: What is the title of Charlie Chaplin’s first full-length feature film? A: The Kid
Q: What role did Vivien Leigh play in the 1939 film ‘Gone With the Wind’? A: Scarlett O’Hara
Q: Who played Captain Teague, Jack’s father, in the 2007 film ‘Pirates of the Caribbean:At World’s End’? A: Keith Richards
Q: Who directed the ‘Indiana Jones’ series of films? A: Steven Spielberg
Q: What is the title of the 1999 film, starring Brad Pitt and Edward Norton, which was adapted from Chuck Palahniuk’s 1996 novel? A: Fight Club
Q: Which song from the 1934 film ‘The Gay Divorcee’, starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, won the first Academy Award for Best Original Song? A: The Continental
Q: The 1982 film ‘The Executioner’s Song’ is about the final nine months of the life of which US convicted murderer who demanded the fulfilment of his own death sentence for two murders he committed? A: Gary Gilmore
Q: In the 1982 film ‘Blade Runner’, what are the genetically engineered organic robots called? A: Replicants
Q: Who played US Marshall Reuben J ‘Rooster’ Cogburn in the 2010 film ‘True Grit’? A: Jeff Bridges
Q: The plot to which 2001 film opens in the year 1900, as a depressed writer named Christian sits at his desk and begins to type to the song ‘Nature Boy’? A: Moulin Rouge
Q: What is the famous last line of the 1959 comedy film ‘Some Like it Hot’? A: ‘Well, nobody’s perfect’
Q: What is the name of Thomas Anderson’s (played by Keanu Reeves) alter ego in the 1999 film ‘The Matrix’? A: Neo
Q: Who played Ann Darrow in the 1933 film ‘King Kong’? A: Fay Wray
Q: Which Disney film, released in 1994, is the highest-grossing hand-drawn film in history? A: The Lion King
Q: What is the surname of Carlito, played by Al Pacino, in the 1993 crime drama film ‘Carlito’s Way’? A: Brigante
Q: Which vowel is on the middle letter row on a computer keyboard? A: A
Q: What process was banned temporarily in Blackpool after is was blamed for causing two earth tremors in 2011? A: Fracking
Q: What is the name of the fictional strip club in the US television series ‘The Sopranos’? A: Bada Bing
Q: What is the national animal of Singapore? A: Lion
Q: In nature, what are active, dormant and extinct? A: Volcanoes
Q: Dipsophobia is the abnormal fear of doing what? A: Drinking alcohol
Q: The Georgian colonnaded walks of Royal Tunbridge Wells in Kent are known as The ‘what’? A: Pantiles
Q: Which English county is known as the ‘Heart of England’? A: Leicestershire
Q: Which inventor was known as ‘The Wizard of Menlo Park’? A: Thomas Edison
Q: Which fashion designer was responsible for the opening-ceremony outfits for Team USA at the 2008 Olympic Games? A: Ralph Lauren
Q: What is the name of the robot in the UK television commercials for ‘confused.com’? A: BRIAN
Q: In anatomy, if something is ‘subcostal’ it is situated or performed below which part of the body? A: Ribs
Q: Which is the only London Underground station to be named after a football team? A: Arsenal
Q: Gainsboro is a pale shade of which colour? A: Grey
Q: Javier Sotomayor set the world record in 1993 for which athletics event? A: High Jump
Q: Who played Sam ‘Ace’ Rothstein in the 1995 film ‘Casino’? A: Robert De Niro
Q: Which former US heavyweight boxer had the nickname ‘Terrible’? A: Tim Witherspoon
Q: Jackson Heights is a neighbourhood in which New York borough? A: Queens
Q: Lima is the capital of which country? A: Peru
Q: Louis Philippe I, King of the French and last king to rule France, abdicated in 1848 and lived the rest of his life in exile in which country? A: England
Q: Actress Audrey Hepburn sang ‘Moon River’ in which 1961 film? A: Breakfast at Tiffany’s
Q: Which bridge in London was dubbed the ‘Wobbly Bridge’? A: The Millennium Bridge
Q: Which Scottish city is promoted as ‘One City, Many Discoveries’? A: Dundee
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Puppy Foot’? A: Ace of clubs
Q: The Wallace Line (or Wallace’s Line) is a faunal boundary line which separates the ecozones of Southeast Asia and which country? A: Australia
Q: In a game of curling, how many stones does each team have? A: Eight
Q: Which British Royal Naval officer was known as the ‘Hero of the Nile’? A: Horatio Nelson
Q: ‘All My Love’ was a 1967 hit single for which British singer? A: Cliff Richard
Q: A splake is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Which element has the highest melting point? A: Carbon
Q: In July 2012, singer/actor Snoop Dogg announced that he had been rechristened Snoop ‘what’ by a Rastafarian priest in Jamaica? A: Lion
Q: Which British author co-wrote the script for the 1968 film ‘Chitty Chitty Bang Bang’? A: Roald Dahl
Q: During which year were escalators installed in the Empire State Building in New York? A: 1964
Q: The Nightingale Training School for Nurses was set up in 1860 at which London hospital? A: St Thomas’s Hospital
Q: What is the only city in the US not technically located in a state? A: Washington DC
Q: A Square Dance is traditionally for how many dancers? A: Eight
Q: ‘Full English’ relates to which meal? A: Breakfast
Q: What is the first name of the film director/actress daughter of director Francis Ford Coppola? A: Sofia
Q: Restormel, Erewhon, Cupani and Romeo are all varieties of which garden flower? A: Sweet Pea
Q: Who was the first Scottish footballer to win the European Player of the Year Award? A: Denis Law
Q: Which US state has the most golf courses? A: Florida
Q: What colour is the inner cross on the national flag of Iceland? A: Red
Q: Mavis Cruet, Evil Edna and The Moog are all characters in which children’s cartoon television series? A: Willo the Wisp
Q: What is the largest artery in the human body? A: Aorta
Q: Which English monarch was the son of Edmund Tudor, 1st Earl of Richmond? A: King Henry VII
Q: Which tea blend is said to be named after a 19th Century British Prime Minister? A: Earl Grey
Q: Gingernut Ranger is a breed of which creature? A: Chicken
Q: In which 1973 film did Jack Nicholson and Otis Young play two US naval petty officers who are assigned the task of accompanying a young sailor, played by Randy Quaid, to a naval prison? A: The Last Detail
Q: Metol is a chemical compound used in which activity or hobby? A: Photography
Q: What is the name of the Griffin’s sex-crazed airline pilot neighbour in the US television animated series ‘Family Guy’? A: Glenn Quagmire
Q: The grave of poet and author Oscar Wilde is in which Paris cemetery? A: Pere Lachaise
Q: Ornithogalum is the Latin name for which flowering plant? A: Star of Bethlehem
Q: Which US golfer won the PGA Tour Lifetime Achievement Award in 1998? A: Arnold Palmer
Q: Gamba is Italian for which part of the body? A: Leg
Q: A ‘what’ Republic is a politically unstable country that is economically dependent on a single export commodity, and is usually governed by a dictator or the armed forces? A: Banana
Q: What is the name of the television character who hosts the UK show ‘Celebrity Juice’? A: Keith Lemon
Q: In the children’s fairy tale, what was Cinderella’s carriage before it was changed by the Fairy Godmother? A: Pumpkin
Q: What is the name of the girlfriend of fictional cartoon character Popeye? A: Olive Oyl
Q: What is the title of the 1973 non-fiction book by Joseph Wambaugh which chronicles the kidnapping of two plainclothes LAPD officers by a pair of criminals? A: The Onion Field
Q: What nickname was England football team manager Graham Taylor given after England lost to Sweden in Euro 92? A: Turnip (Head)
Q: What is the title of the 1984 UB40 single, originally recorded by Eric Donaldson in 1971? A: Cherry Oh Baby
Q: Which British actor played the role of Odysseus in the 2004 film ‘Troy’? A: Sean Bean
Q: In the human body, what is the slight projection at the front of the throat, formed by the largest cartilage of the larynx, commonly known as? A: Adam’s apple
Q: In the 1974 film ‘Mr Majestyk’, what does the title character, played by Charles Bronson, grow on his farm? A: Watermelons
Q: In British slang, which vegetable is the name of the snippets of cloth appropriated by a tailor from a customer’s material? A: Cabbage
Q: Which word is said to be used by actors to simulate conversion? A: Rhubarb
Q: Which member of the band Take That has a twin brother named Justin? A: Jason Orange
Q: In the human body, and Infantile Haemangioma is better known by what name? A: Strawberry mark
Q: ‘An Ideal ‘what’ is an 1895 play by Oscar Wilde? A: Husband
Q: How old was British monarch Queen Victoria when she came to the throne? A: 18 years
Q: Damper is a traditional soda bread originating in which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the name of the alcoholic who runs a rag and bottle shop and lodging house, who dies when he spontaneously combusts, in the novel ‘Bleak House’ by Charles Dickens? A: Krook
Q: Euan, Nicky, Kathryn and Leo are the children of which British Prime Minister? A: Tony Blair
Q: Gules is which colour in heraldry? A: Red
Q: What is the name of the famous comic book store on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, which opened in 2005? A: Secret Headquarters
Q: Who became manager of Scottish football club Celtic in 2010? A: Neil Lennon
Q: Navin R Johnson, played by Steve Martin, is the title character in which 1979 film? A: The Jerk
Q: Mamma Mania is a tribute band to which group? A: Abba
Q: In the Six Nations Rugby Championship, the Millennium Trophy is awarded to the winner of the game between which two countries? A: England and Ireland
Q: What are the final odds called at the time a horse race begins? A: Starting price
Q: Which creature represented the year 2001 in the Chinese calendar? A: Snake
Q: In computing, what is SYSOP short for? A: System Operator
Q: Which Mediterranean island was one of the filming locations for the 2000 film ‘Gladiator’? A: Malta
Q: Which English author wrote and edited the weekly periodical ‘Master Humphrey’s Clock’? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Traditionally, ‘First Footing’ takes place in Britain on which date of the year? A: 1st January
Q: Bodybuilder Angelo Siciliano was better known by what name? A: Charles Atlas
Q: A sublingual medicine is applied in which part of the body? A: Mouth
Q: The world’s oldest surviving bowling green, first used around 1299, is located in which English city? A: Southampton
Q: In 1976, who was the first football player in England to receive a red card? A: David Wagstaffe
Q: Which US President was nicknamed ‘Old Hickory’? A: Andrew Jackson
Q: The US television series ‘Joey’ is a spin-off from which other television series? A: Friends
Q: What is the world’s highest navigable lake? A: Lake Titicaca
Q: In the UK children’s television series ‘Button Moon’, what is the name of Tina Tea-Spoon’s friend? A: Eggbert
Q: What is the national animal of Romania? A: Lynx
Q: Amoretti are representations of which figure in works of art? A: Cupid
Q: What is the name of the pet dog of fictional superhero Supermnan? A: Krypto
Q: What is the title of the song which won the 1997 Eurovision Song Contest for Katrina and the Waves? A: Love Shine a Light
Q: Which fruit is depicted on the top of the Wimbledon Men’s Singles Champions Cup? A: Pineapple
Q: Originating in the US, what is the filling in a MoonPie? A: Marshmallow
Q: What was the first name of US distiller Jack Daniel, born September 1850? A: Jasper
Q: Ataulfo, Haden, Francis and Keitt are all varieties of which fruit? A: Mango
Q: What colour Onions was a 1962 instrumental hit single for Booker T & the Mgs? A: Green
Q: ‘Squaddie’ is an informal term for which rank in the British Army? A: Private
Q: Chrysophobia is the abnormal fear of which colour? A: Orange
Q: ‘The Sea, The Sea’ is a 1978 novel by which author? A: Iris Murdoch
Q: The head of the judiciary in England and Wales has which title? A: Lord Chancellor
Q: Which plant is known as the Pie Plant? A: Rhubarb
Q: Which French field marshall and Emperor was known as ‘The Little Corporal’? A: Napoleon Bonaparte
Q: The International Olympic Committee was founded in which year? A: 1894
Q: Late Formula One racing drive Roland Ratzenberger was born in which country? A: Austria
Q: What is the first name of Eddie ‘The Eagle’ Edwards, who, in 1988, became the first competitor to represent Great Britain in Olympic Ski Jumping? A: Michael
Q: Which European country is known as ‘The Boot’? A: Italy
Q: What is the name of the mouse in the 1999 film ‘The Green Mile’? A: Mr Jingles
Q: Sweetango is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: Mount Qomolanga is the official name of which mountain? A: Mount Everest
Q: Which British monarch is said to to be buried with a lock of Maria Fitzherbert’s hair? A: King George IV
Q: The British brewery Abbey Ales is based in which city? A: Bath
Q: According to the Bible, what did God create on the fourth day of creation? A: Sun, moon and stars
Q: Spalla is Italian for which part of the body? A: Shoulder
Q: Who played the role of J J Gittes in the 1974 film ‘Chinatown’? A: Jack Nicholson
Q: In which UK city is Waverley railway station? A: Edinburgh
Q: US actors Adam West and James Woods guest star as themselves in various episodes of which US animated television series? A: Family Guy
Q: Chulalongkorn University is the oldest university in which Asian country? A: Thailand
Q: Logophobia is the abnormal fear of what? A: Words
Q: Which NATO member country is the only one with no permanent professional army? A: Iceland
Q: Miami Beach pharmacist Benjamin Green invented which brand of sun lotion in 1944? A: Coppertone
Q: Which flavour jam is traditionally used in the recipe for Manchester Tart? A: Raspberry
Q: In the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’, which actor played the ninth Doctor? A: Christopher Eccleston
Q: What is the name of the television Doctor Who monster designed by nine-year old William Grantham, who won the ‘Design a Doctor Who Monster’ competition held by children’s television show Blue Peter in 2005? A: Abzorbaloff
Q: The fictional television Doctor Who came from which planet? A: Gallifrey
Q: What is the name of the malevolent and renegade Time Lord in the television series Doctor Who, whose ambition led him to become the head of the High Council of Time Lords? A: Morbius
Q: What is the name of Rose Tyler’s boyfriend in the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’? A: Mickey Smith
Q: What is the title of the four-episode special of ‘Doctor Who’, made for the Red Nose Day telethon in the UK, broadcast in March 1999? A: Doctor Who and the Curse of Fatal Death
Q: What is the name of the aliens who invaded planet Earth in the 2005 60-minute special television episode of Doctor Who’ entitled ‘The Christmas Invasion’? A: Sycorax
Q: In the original UK television series ‘Doctor Who’, Susan Foreman is what relation to the Doctor? A: Granddaughter
Q: In the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’, the Doctor defeated villain Fenric by challenging him to solve what? A: A chess puzzle
Q: Who played the eye-patch wearing Madam Kovarian in the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’? A: Frances Barber
Q: ‘The Meddling ‘what’ is a fictional character played by actor Peter Butterworth in the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’? A: Monk
Q: Which late author became the step-grandmother of the late Diana, Princess of Wales in 1976? A: Barbara Cartland
Q: According to the Bible, what are three theological virtues? A: Faith, Hope and Charity
Q: The late author and television personality Barbara Woodhouse was famous for training which animals? A: Dogs
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘Midsummer Night’s Dream’, Titania is the Queen of the ‘what’? A: Fairies
Q: What is the name of the saxophone player in the Muppet rock band, which appear on the television show ‘The Muppets’? A: Zoot
Q: The headquarters of the Jyske Bank are in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: A group of which fish is known as an army? A: Herring
Q: English singer/songwriter Paloma Faith played Andrea in which 2007 film? A: St Trinian’s
Q: What is the first name of British footballer Wayne Rooney’s second child, born in May 2013? A: Klay
Q: Which television dramatist wrote the BBC television drama ‘The Black Stuff’ in 1978? A: Alan Bleasdale
Q: Who directed the 1969 film ‘Women In Love’, starring Oliver Reed and Alan Bates? A: Ken Russell
Q: For which film did Audrey Hepburn win her only Oscar (Academy Award)? A: Roman Holiday
Q: Ranidaphobia is the irrational fear of which creatures? A: Frogs
Q: What is the surname of Dick and Jane in the 2005 film ‘Fun With Dick and Jane’, starring Jim Carrey and Tea Leoni? A: Harper
Q: Who defeated Bobby Riggs in the ‘Battle of the Sexes’ tennis match in September 1973? A: Billy Jean King
Q: Apart from the special stars, how many categories of stars are there embedded in the pavements on the Hollywood Walk of Fame? A: Five
Q: The One-Eyed Bagman is a story -teller in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: The Pickwick Papers
Q: What was the the last animated film personally supervised by Walt Disney and released in October 1967? A: The Jungle Book
Q: Which planet in our solar system has a year which is around 24 and a half Earth years? A: Saturn
Q: How wide, in feet, is an NBA regulation basketball court? A: 50 feet
Q: Which colour represents Line 5 of the Paris Metro rail system? A: Orange
Q: Who is the English voice of Ernest Penfold in the television cartoon series ‘Danger Mouse’? A: Terry Scott
Q: In humans, Iatromisia is an intense dislike for which profession? A: Doctors
Q: Which American actor founded his own martial art style called Chun Kuk Do? A: Chuck Norris
Q: The Bronze statue of David by Donatello shows David holding what in his right hand? A: Goliath’s sword
Q: What is the surname of Carrie in Steven King’s novel ‘Carrie’? A: White
Q: Which country was the first to have a woman elected Head of State? A: Sri Lanka
Q: VE (Victory in Europe) Day was celebrated in 1945 during which month of the year? A: May
Q: Who was the first female US Secretary of State? A: Madeleine Albright
Q: What type of creature is a Bobolink? A: Bird
Q: In the British royal family, the wife of Princess Anne’s son Peter is named after which season of the year? A: Autumn
Q: Who plays an ordinary man mistaken for the Messiah in the 1979 film ‘Monty Python’s Life of Brian’? A: Graham Chapman
Q: Which British monarch instituted The Distinguished Service Order? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Who was named ‘Time Magazine’s Man of the Year’ in 1940? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Lahar is an Indonesian term that describes a hot or cold mixture of water and rock fragments flowing from what? A: A volcano
Q: In July 1992, Yitzhak Rabin became Prime Minister of which country? A: Israel
Q: Jirisan National Park lies in which Asian country? A: South Korea
Q: In June 1991, the first Sonic the Hedgehog game was published by which video game company? A: Sega
Q: Which country has the largest number of UNESCO World Heritage sites? A: Italy
Q: What is the title of late actress Elizabeth Taylor’s last feature film? A: The Flintstones
Q: ‘Mare Imbrium’ on the Moon is better known by what name? A: Sea of Showers (or Sea of Rains)
Q: Which  British darts player is known as The Crafty Cockney? A: Eric Bristow
Q: A group of which birds is known as an Exultation? A: Larks
Q: Which silent comedy star appears in the the famous clock-hanging scene in the 1923 film ‘Safety Last’? A: Harold Lloyd
Q: How many times did Silvio Berlusconi serve as Prime minister of Italy? A: Three
Q: The US television medical drama ‘Nurse Jackie’ is set in which city? A: New York
Q: ‘Can I have a P please Bob’ is a catchphrase from which UK television game show? A: Blockbusters
Q: Alliumphobia is the irrational fear of which plant? A: Garlic
Q: What is the name of the dragon in the 1937 novel ‘The Hobbit’? A: Smaug
Q: What is a female lemur called? A: Princess
Q: In cookery, Zwiebel is German for which vegetable? A: Onion
Q: What colour are the ‘Ladies’ in the 1978 film ‘Grease’? A: Pink
Q: The Lower Usuma Dam is in which African country? A: Nigeria
Q: Fish use their gills to extract what from the water around them? A: Oxygen
Q: Which English Leicester-born boxer fought Marvin Hagler in 1983 for the WBC and WBA World Middleweight titles and lost by a technical knockout in the sixth round? A: Tony Sibson
Q: How many chambers does a giraffe have in its stomach? A: Four
Q: Queen Grimhilde, Happy and Doc are all characters in which Disney film? A: Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs
Q: In mathematics, what is 3 cubed? A: 27
Q: Brian Clough said of which sportsman ‘Misguided, mishandled, criticised and crucified  – and only because he’s different’? A: Geoffrey Boycott
Q: The towns of Milton Keynes and High Wycombe are in which English county? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: Who directed the 2001 film ‘The Pledge’, starring Jack Nicholson? A: Sean Penn
Q: Which ELO song features Wagner, Beethoven, Puccini and Verdi? A: Rockaria!
Q: Which Marvel superhero is mention in the T Rex single ‘Teenage Dream’? A: Silver Surfer
Q: The DC superhero ‘Green Lantern’ features in which hit single by Donovan? A: Sunshine Superman
Q: Which rock star is mentioned in the song ‘Smoke on the Water’ by Deep Purple? A: Frank Zappa
Q: Which daughter of a Czar is mentioned in the Rolling Stones song ‘Sympathy for the Devil’? A: Anastasia
Q: Which song by Elton John is about late actress Marilyn Monroe? A: Candle in the Wind
Q: Who is the first ‘hero’ mentioned in the Stranglers hit single ‘No More Heroes’? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: Which Canadian singer/songwriter is mentioned in the song ‘Sweet Home Alabama’ by Lynryd Skynryd? A: Neil Young
Q: In the single ‘Waterloo Sunset’ by The Kinks, what are the names of the two people who meet at Waterloo Station every Friday night? A: Terry and Julie
Q: Which UK Christmas number one single featured ‘Two Ton Ted from Teddington’? A: Ernie (The Fastest Milkman in the West)
Q: Which Genesis song features Ethel, Jacob, Mr Lewis, Mr Farmer and Miss Mort? A: I Know What I Like
Q: Who is the fourth person to be mentioned in the Marvin Gaye hit single ‘Abraham, Martin and John’? A: Bobby (Kennedy)
Q: The oldest known living tree in the world, a bristlecone pine, is situated in which US state? A: California
Q: Ne Win was head of state of which country from 1962 to 1981? A: Burma (Myanmar)
Q: Noodling is the Australian term for the mining of which gemstone? A: Opal
Q: Napoleon Bonaparte was given sovereignty of which island in 1814? A: Elba
Q: In January 1993, who was the first British cabinet minister to visit Argentina since the 1982 Falklands Islands conflict? A: Douglas Hurd
Q: What was the name of the online peer-to-peer audio file sharing service which operated between June 1999 and July 2001? A: Napster
Q: Sweyn Forkbeard was the father of which 11th Century English monarch? A: King Canute
Q: In 1957, which US President announced a two-year suspension of nuclear testing? A: Dwight D Eisenhower
Q: Who won the 1990 Men’s Wimbledon Singles Championship? A: Stefan Edberg
Q: Which former British politician died on 8th April 2013 aged 87? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: The English resort of Blackpool lies on which body of water? A: Irish Sea
Q: In April 2013, which three digit free-to-call, non-emergency number was introduced by the NHS to replace the telephone triage and advice services provided by NHS Direct? A: 111
Q: Sheading is each of the six administrative divisions of which European island? A: Isle of Man
Q: In which 1999 Sam Mendes film is Kevin Spacey married to Annette Bening? A: American Beauty
Q: ‘Just One More Thing’ is a 2006 autobiography by which late US actor? A: Peter Falk
Q: A Clifden Nonpareil is what type of creature? A: Moth
Q: Who plays the blind man in the 1989 comedy film ‘See No Evil, Hear No Evil’? A: Richard Pryor
Q: In Greek mythology, which hero of the Trojan war committed suicide after the armour of the dead Achilles was awarded to Odysseus and not him? A: Ajax
Q: What was the name of the band formed by Paul McCartney after the break-up of The Beatles? A: Wings
Q: Circumlocution is the term for using several ‘what’ when less or only one will do? A: Words
Q: A Prion is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: In the novel ‘Oliver Twist’ by Charles Dickens, what is the first name of Oliver’s mother? A: Agnes
Q: What is the title of late actor Charlie Chaplin’s last completed film, launched in the UK in 1967? A: A Countess From Hong Kong
Q: A complete set of Endangered Species prints, by which artist, was sold for auction at Sotheby’s in London in March 2013? A: Andy Warhol
Q: ‘It was a bright, cold day in April and the clocks were striking thirteen’ is the opening line of which novel? A: 1984
Q: Which English port in the county of Kent is the only one which has the right to call itself a Royal Harbour? A: Ramsgate
Q: Butterfly, Deke, Kneeing and Sniper are all terms used in which sport? A: Ice Hockey
Q: Who plays Jean Valjean in the 2012 film ‘Les Miserables’? A: Hugh Jackman
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘Omnia Vincit Amor’ translate to in English? A: Love conquers all
Q: The German dessert Schwarzwalder Kirschtorte is known by what name in Britain? A: Black Forest gateau
Q: According to the Bible, on which day of Creation did God make man? A: Sixth day
Q: Mount Catherine is the highest mountain in which African country? A: Egypt
Q: How many time zones does Brazil have? A: Three
Q: What is the name of the ‘Special Agent’ meerkat toy in the UK television commercial for Compare the Market? A: Maiya
Q: Which British city is known as ‘Copperopolis’? A: Swansea
Q: Which former Olympic gymnast was known as ‘The Sparrow From Minsk’? A: Olga Korbut
Q: Chenjeh, Kakora, Beyti and Shami are all types of which food dish? A: Kebab
Q: Which World War II US General was given the nickname ‘Dugout Doug’? A: General Douglas MacArthur
Q: What is the name of the concert venue in Glasgow, completed in September 2013, becoming the largest entertainment venue in Scotland? A: The SSE Hydro
Q: Which element has the atomic number 6? A: Carbon
Q: What is the name of the pet dog in the UK children’s television series ‘The Woodentops’? A: Spotty Dog
Q: Chlorophobia is the irrational fear of which colour? A: Green
Q: What was the middle name of former British Prime Minister William Gladstone? A: Ewart
Q: Which French airport is also known as Roissy Airport? A: Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport
Q: House, Hogline, Hacks and Button are all terms used in which sport? A: Curling
Q: Which British singer released an eight CD box set in 2008 entitled ‘And They Said It Wouldn’t Last (My 50 Years in Music)’? A: Cliff Richard
Q: Which spirit is traditionally used to make a Bronx Cocktail? A: Gin
Q: The harbour wall known as ‘The Cobb’ features in which novel by John Fowles? A: The French Lieutenant’s Woman
Q: Former US President Ronald Regan’s ‘Strategic Defence Initiative’, to use ground-based and space-based systems to protect the USA from attack by nuclear missiles, was known in the media by what nickname? A: Star Wars
Q: St Helier is the capital of which Channel Island? A: Jersey
Q: ‘The Rhubarb Triangle’, famous for producing early forced rhubarb, is in which English county? A: West Yorkshire
Q: Jack Worthing is the main character in which Oscar Wilde play? A: The Importance of Being Earnest
Q: Which country is known as ‘Switzerland of the Middle East’? A: Lebanon
Q: Which species of fish is a sterlet? A: Sturgeon
Q: Who was the first British sovereign to take up residence at Buckingham Palace? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Kosciuszko is the highest mountain in which Southern Hemisphere country? A: Australia
Q: In the game of chess, ‘en passant’ involves which chess pieces? A: Pawns
Q: What is the only city in the English county of Wiltshire? A: Salisbury
Q: In the Hebrew calendar, Yom Chamishi corresponds with which day of the week? A: Thursday
Q: ‘Have it your way’ was an advertising slogan for which fast-food outlet? A: Burger King
Q: Bonnie Brae, Eureka and Ponderosa are all varieties of which fruit? A: Lemon
Q: The names of how many US states begin with the letter ‘L’? A: One
Q: Spoon Curve, Casio Triangle and Dunlop Curve are all sections of the Formula One Grand Prix circuit in which country? A: Japan
Q: What is the surname of US television courtroom show host Judge Judy? A: Sheindlin
Q: Caviglia is Italian for which part of the body? A: Ankle
Q: Mintonette was the original name of which ball game? A: Volley ball
Q: Who plays the role of Lieutenant Aldo Raine in the 2009 film ‘Inglorious Basterds’? A: Brad Pitt
Q: Fictional superhero Batman is known as ‘The Caped ‘what’? A: Crusader
Q: Succotash is a dish of mainly maize and usually what type of beans boiled together? A: Lima beans
Q: Which are the only two planets in our solar system that have no moons? A: Mercury and Venus
Q: During which year did Switzerland become a full member of the United Nations? A: 2002
Q: Lois Maxwell played which part in the first 14 James Bond films? A: Miss Moneypenny
Q: On a standard dartboard, what number lies opposite 10? A: 14
Q: Who was elected leader of the British Labour Party in October 1983? A: Neil Kinnock
Q: Martial arts actor Lee Yuen Kam was better known by what name? A: Bruce Lee
Q: Who played Cardinal Wolsey in the 1971 film ‘Carry On Henry’? A: Terry Scott
Q: Which former US President was said for a time to be an FBI informant with the code name T-10? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: The first Winter Youth Olympic Games were held in which European country in January 2012? A: Austria
Q: The medical condition dysphoria is a commonly known as what? A: Anxiety
Q: Which actor played the title role in the 1960’s UK television series ‘Adam Adamant’? A: Gerald Harper
Q: Yankee Stadium is located in which borough of New York City? A: The Bronx
Q: Which two singers had their microphones switched off after running over the time limit during a concert in London’s Hyde Park in July 2012? A: Bruce Springsteen and Paul McCartney
Q: Candlemas Day is celebrated during which month of the year? A: February
Q: What is the title of the third ‘Road’ film starring Bob Hope and Bing Crosby? A: Road To Morocco
Q: Which political figure was best man at the 1927 second wedding of Italian inventor Guglielmo Marconi? A: Benito Mussolini
Q: Marke Rutte became Prime Minister of which European country in 2010? A: Netherlands
Q: Dydd Gwener is Welsh for which day of the week? A: Friday
Q: The bride and groom are  known as Kallah and Chatan in which religion? A: Judaism
Q: What is the title of director Ridley Scott’s first feature film, released in 1977? A: The Duellists
Q: Who won the 1970 Eurovision Song Contest for Ireland? A: Dana
Q: The community of Dull is in which US state? A: Ohio
Q: In 2006, which 19th Century American novelist was finally reunited with his wife, Sophia, when her remains were taken from London to Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Massachusetts, and buried with him? A: Nathaniel Hawthorne
Q: Which football team won the English FA Cup in 1971? A: Arsenal FC
Q: French explorers Pierre and Paul Mallet were the first Europeans to ‘discover’ which range of North American mountains in 1739? A: Rocky Mountains
Q: What type of animal is a duiker? A: Antelope
Q: During which month of the year is the US Open Golf tournament held? A: June
Q: In June 1970, which was the first band to perform rock music at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York? A: The Who
Q: Late US jazz singer, born Eleanora Fagan, was better known by what name? A: Billie Holiday
Q: Benjamin Nnamdi Azikiwe was the first President of which African country? A: Nigeria
Q: Where in the human body is the ulna? A: Forearm
Q: Established by US President Lyndon B Johnson, ‘The President’s Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy’ was unofficially known by what name? A: The Warren Commission
Q: Mary Bohun and Joan of Navarre were the wives of which English monarch? A: Henry IV
Q: If a person’s birthday falls on 1st November, what is their sign of the Zodiac? A: Scorpio
Q: Which European capital city lies on the River Sava? A: Zagreb
Q: Manchuria is a historical name for a large region of which continent? A: Asia
Q: Roquefort cheese is made from the milk of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Used in mathematics, the US term ‘slipstick’ is better known as what in the UK A: Slide rule
Q: The famous sculpture ‘Le Baiser’ is known by what name in English? A: The Kiss
Q: The historical theme park Puy du Fou is in which European country? A: France
Q: Which neighbourhood in Manhattan, New York is also known as Clinton and Midtown West? A: Hell’s Kitchen
Q: Laparoscopic, or minimally invasive surgery, is more commonly known by what name? A: Keyhole surgery
Q: Tom Verlaine, Billy Ficca, Fred Smith and Jimmy Rip are all members of which US rock band, originally formed in New York in 1973? A: Television
Q: Which item of floor covering is slang for a small wig worn by men to cover a bald spot? A: Rug
Q: Which English football club play their home games at Proact Stadium? A: Chesterfield FC
Q: Lloyd Embley became the editor of which British daily tabloid newspaper in May 2012? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Which mountain overlooks the city of Cape Town in South Africa? A: Table Mountain
Q: What type of lightning appears as a broad illumination of parts of a thundercloud, caused by the reflection of a lightning flash? A: Sheet lightning
Q: In the game of snooker, what is the inside edge of the table called, against which a ball can be played? A: Cushion
Q: What is the name of the main peak of the group of hills which form most of Holyrood Park in Edinburgh, Scotland? A: Arthur’s Seat
Q: What is the name of the unacknowledged, discriminatory barrier that prevents women and minorities from rising to positions of power or responsibility within a corporation? A: Glass ceiling
Q: What is the bottom of a sea or river called? A: Bed
Q: What is the title of the 1998 romantic comedy-drama film, starring Gwyneth Paltrow and John Hannah, which alternates between two parallel universes? A: Sliding Doors
Q: Who is the Greek god of the woods, fields and flocks, and the name of the satellite of Saturn that is closest to the planet? A: Pan
Q: In computing, what is a picture or design displayed on the background of a computer screen known as? A: Wallpaper
Q: What word means to hurl a cricket ball from one end of the pitch toward the batsman at the other, keeping the arm straight during delivery? A: Bowl
Q: Who did boxer Floyd Patterson defeat to regain the Heavyweight Championship in June 1960? A: Ingemar Johansson
Q: Who was President of France from 1981 to 1995? A: Francois Mitterand
Q: What type of creature is an inca? A: Bird
Q: Three Kings Day is celebrated in Latin America during which month of the year? A: January
Q: Wyneb is Welsh for which part of the body? A: Face
Q: Which country hosted the 1936 Summer Olympic Games? A: Germany
Q: IN the UK during World War I female workers at munitions factories formed teams known as ‘Munitionettes’ who played against each other in which sport? A: Football
Q: In 1776, patriots and soldiers in New York pulled down a statue of which British monarch in celebration of the Declaration of Independence? A: King George III
Q: Ninoy Aquino International Airport is in which country? A: The Philippines
Q: Nosemaphobia is the irrational fear of being what? A: Ill
Q: What is a temperature of 0 degrees Kelvin also known as? A: Absolute Zero
Q: Which French philosopher and novelist wrote the novel ‘Nausea’ in 1938? A: Jean-Paul Satre
Q: Zine El Abidine Ben Ali became President of which African country in November 1987? A: Tunisia
Q: Kate Winslet, Minnie Driver and Robert Carlyle have all played patients in which UK television drama series? A: Casualty
Q: Ghedi and Aviano are towns in which European country? A: Italy
Q: Berengaria of Navarre was the wife of which English monarch? A: King Richard I
Q: Where in the human body is the tibia? A: Lower leg
Q: Late US film and television actor David Harold Meyer was better known by what name? A: David Janssen
Q: What is the title of The Beatles last album, released in May 1970 before they split up? A: Let It Be
Q: During which month of the year is The Masters golf tournament held? A: April
Q: What is the name of the ‘Passage’ which is the body of water between the southern tip of South America at Cape Horn, Chile and the South Shetland Islands in Antarctica? A: Drake Passage
Q: Who was the first presenter of the UK television panel game show ‘Through the Keyhole’? A: David Frost
Q: In Judaism, what is a ‘Kever’? A: A grave
Q: Main is French for which part of the body? A: Hand
Q: The 16th Century Battle of Molodi was fought in which country? A: Russia
Q: Who shared the 1909 Nobel Prize in Physics with German inventor Karl Ferdinand Braun in recognition of their contribution to the development of wireless telegraphy? A: Guglielmo Marconi
Q: How many ‘Rocky’ films were directed by Sylvester Stallone? A: 4
Q: In astronomy, a spectroheliograph is an instrument used for photographing or recording the image of what? A: The sun
Q: What colour is the tree trunk on the UK Conservative Party logo? A: Blue
Q: Which revolutionary was captured and executed by the Bolivian army in 1967? A: Ernesto ‘Che’ Guevara
Q: The Dragon Boat Festival is held in Taiwan during which month of the year? A: May
Q: Which Roman numerals depict the year 1980? A: MCMLXXX
Q: Polish-born Wislawa Szymborska won the 1996 Nobel Prize in what? A: Literature
Q: Which Asian country is the world’s largest exporter of black pepper? A: Vietnam
Q: Which Rodgers and Hammerstein musical made its television debut when CBS broadcast the 1955 film version as a three-hour Thanksgiving special in 1970? A: Oklahoma
Q: John Hosking was the first Mayor of which Australian city? A: Sydney
Q: Which British singer had a 1997 hit single with ‘Angels’? A: Robbie Williams
Q: In the human body, the buccal cavity is commonly known as what? A: The mouth
Q: The Khamaseen (or Chamsin) is what type of weather condition? A: Wind
Q: In 2012, which British MP apologised to his former French teacher in a letter published in the Radio Times, for misbehaving in class 30 years ago? A: Michael Gove
Q: Bundz cheese comes from which country? A: Poland
Q: The main entrance of which London museum is situated on Great Russell Street? A: British Museum
Q: Which sculpture by Auguste Rodin was originally named ‘The Poet’? A: The Thinker
Q: How many nuclear weapons have been used in the course of warfare? A: Two
Q: What is the title of British singer Gary Barlow’s album, released in 2012 to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II? A: Sing
Q: Coney Island is situated in which Borough of New York City? A: Brooklyn
Q: Which actress played Jean Hope in the UK television series ‘Emmerdale’ in 2006? A: Susan Penhaligon
Q: In humans, edentulism is the complete loss of what? A: Teeth
Q: Late businessman and British politician Jan Ludvik Hoch was better known by what name? A: Robert Maxwell
Q: Madaraka Day is celebrated in June to commemorate the attaining of self-rule of which African country in 1963? A: Kenya
Q: Who set a new land speed record in October 1983, driving Thrust 2 at the Black Rock Desert in Nevada, USA? A: Richard Noble
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies opposite 1? A: 19
Q: The comet Shoemaker broke apart and collided with which planet in our solar system in July 1994? A: Jupiter
Q: The Sucre was the currency of which South American country between 1884 and 2000? A: Ecuador
Q: How many players in each team enter the field at the beginning of a game of the South Asian tag sport Kho Kho? A: Nine
Q: The Hopman Cup is competed for in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Who plays Auntie Angela in the UK television comedy series ‘Outnumbered’? A: Samantha Bond
Q: Pouhon, Kemmel Straight and  Blanchimont are all sections of the Formula One Grand Prix circuit in which country? A: Belgium
Q: English monarch King Henry VIII was given which Palace when ‘owner’ Cardinal Thomas Wolsey fell out of favour with the king? A: Hampton Court Palace
Q: Which UK television presenter made his first tv appearance in an advertisement for Sure deodorant, featuring his ascent of Mount Everest? A: Bear Grylls
Q: Which British fashion designer once said ‘A woman is as young as her knees’? A: Mary Quant
Q: What was the name of the last battleship built for the British Royal Navy, which ran aground in Portsmouth Harbour? A: HMS Vanguard
Q: The destruction of the city of Sodom features in which book of the Bible? A: Genesis
Q: Which legendary  English outlaw ‘stole from the rich to give to the poor’? A: Robin Hood
Q: Who played Han Solo in the ‘Star Wars’ series of films? A: Harrison Ford
Q: Who sang at half time at the US Super Bowl in February 2013? A: Beyonce
Q: In July 2013, who revealed that they were the secret author Robert Galbraith? A: J K Rowling
Q: How many apostles are there in the painting ‘The Last Supper’ by Leonardo da Vinci? A: 12
Q: What is the first name of the older brother of British tennis player Andy Murray? A: Jamie
Q: Not including the cellar, how many rooms are there in the board game ‘Cluedo’? A: Nine
Q: What is the capital of Canada? A: Ottawa
Q: What colour is Teletubby Po in the children’s television series’ Teletubbies’? A: Red
Q: In the Harry Potter series of books, what animal does Sirius Black turn into? A: Dog
Q: The element hydrogen has which number on the Periodic Table? A: 1
Q: Which famous artist spent four years painting the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel in Rome? A: Michelangelo
Q: How many time zones does Russia have? A: Nine
Q: What colour ribbon was ‘tied around the Ole Oak Tree’ in a 1973 hit single by Tony Orlando and Dawn? A: Yellow
Q: What was the first team sport included in the Olympic Games? A: Football
Q: Catherine of Braganza, wife of English monarch Charles II, was said to have introduced which cutlery item to the dining tables of England? A: Fork
Q: In April 1980, the St Pauls Riot broke out in which English city? A: Bristol
Q: Which newspaper has won the most Pulitzer Prizes for journalism? A: The New York Times
Q: Who became British Prime Minister in October 1951? A: Winston Churchill
Q: In which country is Lake Ladoga? A: Russia
Q: What is the name of the target in a game of curling? A: House
Q: Haphephobia is the irrational fear of having what done to you? A: Touching
Q: What is the name of the matron of the workhouse where Oliver is born in the Charles Dickens novel ‘Oliver Twist’? A: Mrs Corney
Q: Bump, Double Turn, Potato and Tap Out are all terms used in which sport? A: Wrestling
Q: What is traditionally mixed with wine to make a spritzer? A: Soda water
Q: Launched from Cape Kennedy in March 1972, what was the name of the first man-made satellite to leave the solar system? A: Pioneer 10
Q: What is the name of the character played by actor Neil Burgess in the television commercial for cleaning product Cillit Bang? A: Barry Scott
Q: Ophthalmitis is the inflammation of which part of the body? A: Eye
Q: In 1961, who became the first non- American golfer to win The Masters? A: Gary Player
Q: ‘It’s what your right arm’s for’ was an advertising slogan for which beer? A: Courage
Q: King Richard, Varna and Otina are varieties of which vegetable? A: Leek
Q: What is the name of the police car in the children’s television series ‘Roary the Racing Car’? A: Nick
Q: US outlaws Robert LeRoy Parker and Harry Longabaugh were better known by what names? A: Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid
Q: Online social networking website Facebook was founded in 2004 in which US state? A: Massachusetts
Q: ‘Elmo’s World’ was a segment of which children’s television show? A: Sesame Street
Q: What is the name of the floating mass of vegetation that often obstructs navigation in tropical rivers? A: Sudd
Q: Which planet is closest to Earth? A: Venus
Q: On a standard dartboard, which number lies opposite 15? A: 9
Q: In November 1983, 26 million pounds worth of gold, diamonds and cash were stolen from the Brinks-MAT warehouse at which British airport? A: Heathrow Airport
Q: Which English snooker player is nicknamed ‘The Whirlwind’? A: Jimmy White
Q: What is the name of the tiger in the 2001 novel ‘Life of Pi’? A: Richard Parker
Q: In botany, the calyx form which part of a plant? A: Flower
Q: Painter and engraver Sir Edwin Henry Landseer was a favourite artist of which British monarch? A: Queen Victoria
Q: A picture of which British singer was on the front cover of the first edition of teen magazine ‘Jackie’ in January 1964? A: Cliff Richard
Q: Which was the first national football team to beat England after they won the 1966 World Cup? A: Scotland
Q: Double Dutch, Double Unders and Dipsy Doodles are all term used in which activity? A: Skipping
Q: Anthony Stark is the real name of which fictional superhero? A: Iron Man
Q: Hester Prynnne is the main character in which novel by US author Nathaniel Hawthorne? A: The Scarlet Letter
Q: James Monroe became President of which country in March 1817? A: USA
Q: Which British singer released a 2011 album entitled ’21’? A: Adele
Q: Paul Ford played Colonel John T Hall in which 1950’s US television series? A: Bilko (The Phil Silvers Show)
Q: What is the title of the Band Aid charity single, released in December 1984? A: Do They Know It’s Christmas
Q: The 1908 Summer Olympic Games were hosted by which European city? A: London
Q: Which American soccer team is known as the ‘Quakes’? A: San Jose Earthquakes
Q: Who was the only US President not to live at the Whitehouse? A: George Washington
Q: What was the first name of 19th Century British explorer Stanley, who searched for David Livingstone in Africa? A: Henry
Q: Doris Day plays which 1920’s and 30’s singer and actress in the 1955 film ‘Love Me or Leave Me’? A: Ruth Etting
Q: ‘Trelawny’ is the ‘national anthem’ of which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: Who won the 1976 Eurovision Song Contest for the UK with their song ‘Save Your Kisses For Me’? A: Brotherhood of Man
Q: Who wrote the Athenian tragedy ‘Oedipus Rex’? A: Sophocles
Q: Who was the last boxer to fight and defeat Muhammad Ali, in December 1981? A: Trevor Berbick
Q: Which former British MP was the first contestant to be eliminated from the 2011 UK television show ‘Strictly Come Dancing’? A: Edwina Currie
Q: How many points is a ‘T’ tile worth in a game of Scrabble? A: One point
Q: The Kodkod is what type of animal? A: Cat
Q: Who plays Freddie Krueger in the 1984 film ‘A Nightmare on Elm Street’? A: Robert Englund
Q: Mount Nanga Parbat is in which country? A: Pakistan
Q: The Allan Border medal is awarded annually for which sport? A: Cricket
Q: Whiteford, Stewart and Brabham are all corners on the Formula One Grand Prix circuit in which country? A: Australia
Q: Who hold the Guinness World Record for survivor of the most broken bones in a lifetime? A: Evel Knievel
Q: What was the first name of 18th Century English cabinet maker and furniture designer Chippendale? A: Thomas
Q: According to the WHO (World Health Organisation), which country had the longest life expectancy in the world in 2011? A: Japan
Q: How many gold medals did Britain win in the 2012 Summer Olympic Games? A: 29
Q: The RAF flew 1 million Euros from the UK to which country in March 2013, as a contingency measure ‘to provide military personnel with loans’? A: Cyprus
Q: In January 2013, the London Underground rail system celebrated which anniversary? A: 150th
Q: Which Oscar-winning director staged the West End musical ‘Charlie and the Chocolate Factory’, which opened in London in June 2013? A: Sam Mendes
Q: Which Greek goddess featured on the new five-euro banknote in 2013? A: Europa
Q: Which French city was was the 2013 European Capital of Culture? A: Marseilles
Q: Who was announced as the new television Doctor Who in July 2013? A: Peter Capaldi
Q: Which British footballer signed a 5 month contract with Paris St-Germain in January 2013, donating his salary to charity? A: David Beckham
Q: Which creature represented the year 2013 in the Chinese calendar? A: Snake
Q: Who won the 2013 Tour de France? A: Chris Froome
Q: In 2013, Japanese scientists cloned what type of creature from a single drop of blood? A: Mouse
Q: Which actor, who played Tony Soprano on the US television series ‘The Sopranos’, died in June 2013? A: James Gandolfini
Q: What is written on the sign on the mural by graffiti artist Banksy that was cut out of a wall in Tottenham, London in July 2013? A: No Ball Games
Q: In July 2013, the Archbishop of Canterbury said he was ’embarrassed and irritated’ that the Church of England invested indirectly in which online company? A: Wonga
Q: In August 2013, scientists in Florence, Italy opened a tomb in order to extract DNA, hoping to identify the model for which painting? A: Mona Lisa
Q: In the 2011 film , Captain America is ‘The First ‘what’? A: Avenger
Q: Hellophobia is the fear of which country and its culture? A: Greece
Q: Who was the last UK Labour Prime Minister before Tony Blair? A: James Callaghan
Q: 11, Mafeking Parade is the address of the two main characters in which British television comedy series? A: Bottom
Q: A group of which birds is known as a ‘Tidings’? A: Magpies
Q: Extinct volcano Hallasan is the highest point in which Asian country? A: South Korea
Q: The 1992 Summer Olympic Games were hosted by which European city? A: Barcelona
Q: In the US animated television show ‘The Simpsons’ which actress voiced Maggie’s first word, which was ‘Daddy’? A: Elizabeth Taylor
Q: Which British monarch founded The Order of Merit? A: King Edward VII
Q: What is the name of the boy in Rudyard Kipling’s ‘The Jungle Book’? A: Mowgli
Q: Who was the first female US Attorney General? A: Janet Reno
Q: Who directed the 2001 remake of the film ‘Planet of the Apes’? A: Tim Burton
Q: In 2012, who became the first German driver, since Hermann Lang in 1939, to win a Formula One Grand Prix in a German car? A: Nico Rosberg
Q: On 1st April 1977, bookseller Richard Booth declared which Welsh town to be an independent kingdom, with himself as monarch? A: Hay-on Wye
Q: What is the surname of brother and sister Samson and Sally in the novel ‘The Old Curiosity Shop’ by Charles Dickens? A: Brass
Q: Who became Vice-President of the USA in December 1973? A: Gerald Ford
Q: If something is ‘aestival’ it belongs to or appears in which season of the year? A: Summer
Q: The towns od Grimsby and Cleethorpes are in which English county? A: Lincolnshire
Q: Venerdi is Italian for which day of week? A: Friday
Q: ‘Never Have Your Dog Stuffed and Other Things I’ve Learned’ is a 2005 autobiography by which US actor? A: Alan Alda
Q: What is the US state capital of Oklahoma? A: Oklahoma City
Q: In September 1990, Geoffrey Palmer resigned as Prime Minister of which country? A: New Zealand
Q: ‘The Motherland Calls’ which commemorates the Battle of Stalingrad, is a statue in which Russian city? A: Volgograd
Q: Rivella is a soft drink which originated in which European country? A: Switzerland
Q: A bonxie is what type of creature? A: Bird
Q: Eddie Valiant, Judge Doom and Dolores are all characters in which Disney film? A: Who Framed Roger Rabbit
Q: Where are the ossicones situated on the body of a giraffe? A: Head
Q: The Oahe Dam is located in which US state? A: South Dakota
Q: In which English city was singer Robbie Williams born in February 1974? A: Stoke-on-Trent
Q: ‘Through Thick and Thin’ is a 2011 autobiography by which UK television presenter? A: Gok Wan
Q: In March 1977, India’s Missionaries of Charity chose Sister Nirmala to succeed who as its leader? A: Mother Teresa
Q: Who was US Secretary of State between 1997 and 2001? A: Madeleine Albright
Q: Thailand is divided into how many provinces? A: 76
Q: Which is the only insect that can turn its head 360 degrees? A: Praying mantis
Q: Who was the longest serving BBC Radio One Breakfast Show presenter? A: Chris Moyles
Q: A surcingle is a belt or girth used on which animal? A: Horse
Q: Bada, Bing, Lambert and Tartarian are all varieties of which fruit? A: Cherry
Q: How high, in metres, is the London Eye? A: 135 metres
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘The Devil’s Bedpost’? A: Four of Clubs
Q: What is the name of the Towers in which Doctor Who villain Kroagnon (The Great Architect) existed as a disembodied intelligence stored in a tank? A: Paradise Towers
Q: What is the surname of Norm in the US television series ‘Cheers’? A: Peterson
Q: Mole Valley is in which English county? A: Surrey
Q: Dishabiliophobia is a strong aversion to doing what in front of other people? A: Undressing
Q: The martial art vovinam originated in which country? A: Vietnam
Q: Agnus Dei is a figure of which creature as an emblem of Christ? A: Lamb
Q: The rock musical ‘Rent’ is based on which opera by Giacomo Puccini? A: La boheme
Q: US comedian, singer and actress Fania Borach, born in October 1891, was better known by what name? A: Fanny Brice
Q: Rosy, Goose Foot and Northern are all types of which marine creature? A: Starfish
Q: Who won the 1976 UK Pipe Smoker of the Year Award, and was Pipeman of the Decade? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Messer is German for which item of cutlery? A: Knife
Q: In 1862, English explorer John Hanning Speke discovered the source of the Nile in which lake? A: Lake Victoria
Q: Who was the President of Costa Rica between 2006 and 2010? A: Oscar Arias
Q: What type of creature is a danio? A: Fish
Q: Blue Castello cheese is made in which country? A: Denmark
Q: Former US President Jimmy Carter belonged to which political party? A: Democratic Party
Q: St Cyril had which script/alphabet named after him? A: Cyrillic
Q: The Royal Albert Hall in London is name after the consort of which monarch? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Who is the longest-serving captain in the history of Manchester United FC? A: Bryan Robson
Q: In which US state was actress Nicole Kidman born? A: Hawaii
Q: In 1976 Dave Wagstaffe was playing for which team when he became the first football player in England to receive a red card? A: Blackburn Rovers
Q: Who wrote the first series of the UK television show ‘Blackadder’? A: Richard Curtis and Rowan Atkinson
Q: Who played Richard III in the first series of the UK television show ‘Blackadder’? A: Peter Cook
Q: Which character is played by Miranda Richardson in the UK television series ‘Blackadder II’? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: What is the name of Blackadder’s servant in the UK television show ‘Blackadder’? A: Baldrick
Q: Which vegetable is Blackadder’s servant obsessed with in the UK television series ‘Blackadder II’? A: Turnip
Q: What is the name of the ‘highwayman’ played by Miranda Richardson in the UK television series ‘Blackadder the Third’? A: The Shadow
Q: The UK television series ‘Blackadder the Third’ is set during which historical period? A: British Regency
Q: How does Baldrick describe his ‘plans’ in the UK television series ‘Blackadder’? A: Cunning
Q: What is the name of the Captain, played by Tim McInnerny, in the UK television series ‘Blackadder Goes Forth’? A: Kevin Darling
Q: In the UK television series ‘Blackadder the Third’ who shoots the Prince Regent when he is disguised as Blackadder? A: The Duke of Wellington
Q: In the UK television series ‘Blackadder II’ what does Melchett plan to smoke after it was discovered by Sir Walter Raleigh on his voyages? A: A potato
Q: ‘Dish and Dishonesty’ and ‘Sense and Senility’ are titles of episodes of which Blackadder television series? A: Blackadder the Third
Q: Who owns the coffee shop in the UK television series ‘Blackadder the Third’? A: Mrs Miggins
Q: Who plays Dr Johnson in the UK television series ‘Blackadder the Third’? A: Robbie Coltrane
Q: Which actor narrated ‘Blackadder’s Christmas Carol’, a one-off episode of UK television show ‘Blackadder’? A: Hugh Laurie
Q: Which English county was represented by the ‘Nine children of honour’ at the coronation of King Henry VIII? A: Cornwall
Q: In humans, Daltonism is better known by what name? A: Colour blindness
Q: ‘The Black and Gold’ is a nickname of which American football team? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: Who plays Detective Inspector Dave Creegan in the UK television series ‘Touching Evil’? A: Robson Green
Q: Secret Island, a former gunpowder mill, is situated in which English county? A: Essex
Q: Singer Dan Reynolds is the frontman of US band ‘Imagine’ what’? A: Dragons
Q: Mary Lennox, Colin and Dickon are all characters in which children’s novel? A: The Secret Garden
Q: ‘International ‘what’ is the official colour of the paint on the Golden Gate Bridge in California? A: Orange
Q: In the game of chess which move is also known as  ‘Fool’s Mate’? A: Two-move checkmate
Q: Pied is French for which part of the body? A: Foot
Q: Blinker, Fountain, Rocket and Cake are all types of what? A: Fireworks
Q: On a regular clockface, which number lies opposite 5? A: 11
Q: A Biggin is a type of pot used for making what? A: Coffee
Q: Who wrote the 1870 novel ‘Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea’? A: Jules Verne
Q: Kumamoto, Virginica, Pacific and Marennes are all types of which seafood? A: Oyster
Q: How many scoring zones are on a standard dartboard? A: 82
Q: Which Roman martyr, who made a promise to God never to stain her purity, is the patron saint of chastity? A: St Agnes
Q: Algophobia is the persistent fear of what? A: Pain
Q: What is the surname of Woody, the assistant bartender, in the US television comedy series ‘Cheers’? A: Boyd
Q: Craniates are animals which have what? A: Skulls
Q: In January 1997 which British yachtsman was found alive five days after his boat capsized in the Southern Ocean? A: Tony Bullimore
Q: What is the national animal of Tanzania? A: Giraffe
Q: Governor Ratcliffe, Nakoma and Grandmother Willow are all characters in which Disney film? A: Pocahontas
Q: What was the first name of of American homeopathic physician and wife-murderer Dr Crippen? A: Hawley
Q: Adi Granth is the principal sacred scripture of which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: In November 1994 who became the oldest heavyweight boxing champion in history by defeating Michael Moorer? A: George Foreman
Q: What is the US state capital of West Virginia? A: Charleston
Q: ‘Lucky Man’ is a 2003 autobiography by which US actor? A: Michael J Fox
Q: A douroucouli is what type of animal? A: Monkey
Q: Sabato is Italian for which day of the week? A: Saturday
Q: The towns of Bishop’s Stortford and Berkhamsted are in which English county? A: Hertfordshire
Q: In March 1974 a picture of which US actress was on the cover of the first issue of ‘People’ magazine? A: Mia Farrow
Q: What is the first name of Scrooge’s former fiancee in the novel ‘A Christmas Carol’ by Charles Dickens? A: Belle
Q: Who was the first woman tennis player to win all four Grand Slam tournaments in the same year? A: Maureen Connolly
Q: Which English monarch was known as ‘Brandy Nan’? A: Queen Anne
Q: What is the collective name for a group of woodpeckers? A: Descent
Q: John Wayne played Ethan Edwards, who sets out to find his abducted niece, in which classic 1956 western film? A: The Searchers
Q: A pyroclastic flow comes from which natural structure? A: Volcano
Q: The 1992 Summer Olympic Games were hosted by which European country? A: Spain
Q: In January 1986 US politician Bill Nelson was aboard which space shuttle when he became the second sitting member of the United States Congress to fly in space? A: Columbia
Q: What are the first names of the characters played by Adrian Edmonson and Rik Mayall in the UK television comedy series ‘Bottom’? A: Richie and Eddie
Q: In medicine, coprastasophobia is the fear of what? A: Constipation
Q: Who presented the original run of the UK television quiz show ‘Ask the Family’? A: Robert Robinson
Q: Who became the first socialist Prime Minister of Greece in 1981? A: Andreas Papandreou
Q: Who carried the flag for Britain at the opening ceremony at the 2012 Olympic Games? A: Chris Hoy
Q: What was the first name of former US First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt? A: Anna
Q: Lanix is the largest domestically owned manufacturer of consumer and professional electronics in which country? A: Mexico
Q: Who won a Gold Medal for Britain in the men’s 100 metres at the 1992 Summer Olympic Games in Barcelona? A: Linford Christie
Q: What type of animal is a lechwe? A: Antelope
Q: What was the original state flower of US state Oklahoma? A: Mistletoe
Q: US actor, producer and director Nicolas Coppola is better known by what name? A: Nicolas Cage
Q: The Kladdkaka (or chocolate mud cake) originated in which country? A: Sweden
Q: Pelo is Spanish for which part of the body? A: Hair
Q: In March 2013, an English Heritage Blue Plaque was unveiled to commemorate which iconic design by Harry Beck on the 80th anniversary of its first public appearance? A: London Underground Map
Q: A foehn is what type of weather condition? A: Wind
Q: What relation to Peter the Great of Russia was Catherine I of Russia? A: Wife
Q: Which Formula One Grand Prix Circuit has corners named Anthony Noghes and La Rascasse? A: Monaco
Q: Folgate, Grosso, Fathead and Grappenhall are all varieties of which garden plant? A: Lavender
Q: In medicine which lotion is traditionally used to alleviate the symptoms of chicken pox? A: Calamine lotion
Q: In the human body what is a carotid? A: Artery
Q: In December 1937 which long-running children’s comic was first published in the UK? A: The Dandy
Q: Mwai Kibaki became President of which African country in 2002? A: Kenya
Q: In 1960 which Belgian-born oceanographer and engineer made the first manned expedition to the Mariana Trench, the deepest place in the ocean? A: Jacques Piccard
Q: The towns of Lowestoft and Felixstowe are in which English county? A: Suffolk
Q: The Northumberland Strait is in which country? A: Canada
Q: Tiradentes Day is celebrated in Brazil during which month of the year? A: April
Q: How many ways are there for a batsman to get out in the game of cricket? A: Ten
Q: A group of which birds is known as a rafter? A: Turkeys
Q: Professor Henry Higgins is a character in which 1964 film? A: My Fair Lady
Q: Which playing card is known as ‘Grace’s Card’? A: Six of hearts
Q: In the UK television series ‘Doctor Who’ the Sisters of Plenitude are human forms of which animal? A: Cat
Q: Who wrote the 1956 novel ‘101 Dalmatians’? A: Dodie Smith
Q: Knoblauch is German for which herb? A: Garlic
Q: The 2013 film ‘Rush’ is about the rivalry between which two former Formula One racing drivers? A: James Hunt and Niki Lauda
Q: Former US President John F Kennedy belonged to which political party? A: Democratic Party
Q: Which artist worked for Cesare Borgia, son of Pope Alexander VI, as military architect and engineer? A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: The Devil’s ‘what’ is a large natural amphitheatre and beauty spot near Hindhead, Surrey? A: Punch Bowl
Q: Ragnar Lodbrok is a character in which Historical television drama series? A: Vikings
Q: Actor Arnold Schwarzenegger was a protege of which body-building guru who died in March 2013, aged 93? A: Joe Weider
Q: A lamington is a dessert cake originating in which country? A: Australia
Q: How many shapes Make up the 2012 London Olympic logo? A: Five
Q: Dennis Patterson, Leonard Osborne, Wayne Norris and Albert Moxey are all characters in which UK television series? A: Auf Wiedersehen Pet
Q: Cardiophobia is the irrational fear of which organ in the body? A: Heart
Q: Who won the 1991 Wimbledon Men’s Singles Championship? A: Michael Stich
Q: Located in Mexico, what are Popocateptl and El Chicon? A: Volcanoes
Q: Which British monarch founded the Order of the Bath? A: King George I
Q: Alec Guinness played Lieutenant Colonel Nicholson in which 1957 World War II film? A: The Bridge on the River Kwai
Q: ‘How do I love thee?  Let me count the ways’  is the opening line of a work by which English poet? A: Elizabeth Barrett Browning
Q: A Slippery Dick is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Who was the first woman to top the UK singles chart with a song she had written herself? A: Kate Bush
Q: Which goddess was the wife of Roman god Vulcan? A: Venus
Q: Lawrence Boythorn and John Jarndyce are characters in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Bleak House
Q: Argentum is Latin for which chemical element? A: Silver
Q: The English city of Peterborough stands on which river? A: River Nene
Q: Chwefror is Welsh for which month of the year? A: February
Q: Columbus is the capital of which US state? A: Ohio
Q: How many Oscars did the 1962 film ‘Lawrence of Arabia’ win? A: Seven
Q: What is a military officer called who acts as an administrative assistant to a more senior officer? A: Adjutant
Q: In which English city was Guy Fawkes, of Gunpowder Plot fame, born? A: York
Q: In November 1997 Mary McAleese was elected 8th President of which European country? A: Ireland
Q: Charlie Wax is a fictional secret agent in which 2010 film? A: From Paris With Love
Q: During which month of the year does the ceremony of ‘Swan Upping’ take place on the River Thames? A: July
Q: Eleutherophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Freedom
Q: What colour are the ‘G’s’ in the regular Google logo? A: Blue
Q: Black Amish is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: Which English city is known as ‘Rainy City’? A: Manchester
Q: In 2011 who became the first Manchester United FC captain from Eastern Europe? A: Nemanja Vidic
Q: In July 1991 who became the New Archbishop of Canterbury? A: George Carey
Q: What is the minimum legal age a person can get married without parental consent in the US state of Nebraska? A: 19 years
Q: The Postage Stamp is the shortest hole on which Scottish golf course? A: Royal Troon
Q: The port of Fishguard is in which country of the UK? A: Wales
Q: ‘Graffiti on the ‘what’ is a 2013 album by the Stereophonics? A: Train
Q: The daughter-in-law of which British politician became the first woman Prime Minister of Denmark in 2011? A: Neil Kinnock
Q: Berger’s disease affects which part of the body? A: Kidneys
Q: Famous for surfing, Fistral Beach is in which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: Which retailer opened its first new UK store for over 300 years at St Pancras station in London in November 2013? A: Fortnum & Mason
Q: According to The Guinness Book of World Records the village of Bernotai in which country is the geographic centre of Europe? A: Lithuania
Q: In which city is the Headquarters of the European Union? A: Brussels
Q: Which ocean borders the west of Europe? A: Atlantic Ocean
Q: How many countries make up Europe? A: 48
Q: What is the name of the ‘Checkpoint’ in Berlin which served as a symbol of the Iron Curtain? A: Checkpoint Charlie
Q: Which year saw the dissolution of the Soviet Union? A: 1991
Q: Which country is bordered by Belarus in the north and Moldova in the south? A: Ukraine
Q: The 1957 Treaty of Rome established which organisation? A: European Economic Community (EEC)
Q: What is the second-longest mountain range in Europe? A: The Carpathian Mountains
Q: In which European country did the Industrial Revolution begin in the 18th Century? A: United Kingdom
Q: What is the smallest capital city in the European Union? A: Valletta (Malta)
Q: Wizz Air is a low-cost airline with headquarters in which European country? A: Hungary
Q: In which country was the historical television drama series ‘Vikings’ filmed? A: Ireland
Q: England and Surrey cricketing twins Alec and Eric had what surname? A: Bedser
Q: Which cartoon Colonel was created by Sir David Law? A: Colonel Blimp
Q: Brombeere is German for which fruit? A: Blackberry
Q: In the children’s television series ‘The Muppets’ what colour is Grover? A: Blue
Q: A group of which birds is known as a ‘Watch’? A: Nightingales
Q: The Heidelberg School was a 19th Century Impressionist art movement in which country? A: Australia
Q: A Chiliad is a term for which number? A: One thousand
Q: Great Slave Lake is in which country? A: Canada
Q: In food, ‘E’ numbers 110 – 119 are which colour? A: Orange
Q: What part of the body does an insect finally have to grow to become an imago? A: Wings
Q: What is the most expensive property in the US version of the board game Monopoly? A: Boardwalk
Q: Which Cornish castle is said to be the place of conception of legendary King Arthur? A: Tintagel Castle
Q: Nashville is the state capital of which US state? A: Tennessee
Q: Meroledi is Italian for which day of the week? A: Wednesday
Q: What type of animal is an Affenpinscher? A: Dog
Q: In the novel ‘Great Expectations’ by Charles Dickens what is the name of Herbert Pocket’s fiancee, who he later marries? A: Clara Barley
Q: Blue ‘what’ was the former operator of the Watford Gap Services in Northamptonshire? A: Boar
Q: What is the name of the race horse and the title of a 2003 film starring Jeff Bridges as the owner, and Toby Maguire as the jockey? A: Seabiscuit
Q: What is the name of the fictional women’s prison in the UK television series ‘Bad Girls’? A: Larkhall
Q: Which British cyclist won the 2012 Tour de France? A: Bradley Wiggins
Q: The Opera Cake, made with layers of almond sponge cake soaked in coffee syrup, originated in which country? A: France
Q: Which film won ‘Best Film’ at the 2013 Empire Awards? A: Skyfall
Q: Which country has a Formula One Grand Prix Circuit named ‘Gilles Villeneuve’? A: Canada
Q: Athlete Germaine Mason won a silver medal in the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing in which event? A: High jump
Q: Who wrote the 2008 novel ‘Duma Key’? A: Stephen King
Q: In the game of Scrabble how many points is a letter ‘H’ tile worth? A: Four
Q: What is the title of the first feature film in which Tom Hanks appeared with Meg Ryan? A: Joe Versus the Volcano
Q: The Euroscar European Player of the Year Award is awarded for which sport? A: Basketball
Q: The title of the 1987 film ‘The Lost Boys’ was borrowed from which novel? A: Peter Pan
Q: Ewart was the middle name of which British Prime Minister? A: William Gladstone
Q: British MP Edwina Currie wrote the novel ‘Chasing ‘what’? A: Men
Q: In which direction can a bishop move on the board during a game of chess? A: Diagonally
Q: In mobile phone use, what is ‘app’ short for? A: Application
Q: In the UK television game show ‘Tipping Point’ how many counters does each contestant have at the start of the game? A: Three
Q: What is the first name of inventor Dyson, who invented his own brand of vacuum cleaner? A: James
Q: What is the title of the 1996 film in which George Clooney and Michelle Pfeiffer play single parents Alex and Mae? A: One Fine Day
Q: What is the minimum age a person can legally get married in the US state of Oregon? A: 17 years
Q: In 2009, which UK television presenter was appointed Chief Scout, at the age of 35, by the Scout Association? A: Bear Grylls
Q: Which British city is known as the ‘City of Arcades’? A: Cardiff
Q: In cooking, what is the term for plunging vegetables into boiling water for a short time, and then plunging them into cold water until they are cold? A: Blanching
Q: Lythari, Avariel, Drow and Snow are all types of which mythical creature? A: Elf
Q: In many Spanish-speaking countries which day of the week is considered unlucky if it falls on the 13th of the month? A: Tuesday
Q: Which US actor and comedian is the voice of Bernard in the 1977 Disney film ‘The Rescuers’? A: Bob Newhart
Q: Dementophobia is the irrational fear of what? A: Insanity
Q: What was the nickname of the legendary 17th Century highwaywoman Katherine Ferrers? A: The Wicked Lady
Q: The 1998 autobiography ‘The Devil Rides Out’ is by which UK comedian and television presenter? A: Paul O’Grady
Q: Which English county is known as ‘God’s Own County’? A: Yorkshire
Q: Which English singer/songwriter, born in 1950, was labelled ‘Looney de Small’ by the late Spike Milligan  because of her sharp sense of humour? A: Lynsey de Paul
Q: What was the only UK number one hit single for rock band Foreigner? A: I Want To Know What Love Is
Q: What colour is powdered sulphur? A: Yellow
Q: In 2013 which British politician was challenged to fulfil his claim that he could live on 53 pounds sterling a week? A: Ian Duncan Smith
Q: Tobomory is the capital of which Scottish island? A: Isle of Mull
Q: Who is the lead singer of British rock band the Stone Roses? A: Ian Brown
Q: Which US television drama series is based on chemistry teacher Walter White, who turns to making and selling crystal meth after finding out he has lung cancer? A: Breaking Bad
Q: In the Shakespeare play ‘Hamlet’ the skull of which character is held by Hamlet? A: Yorick
Q: Who did the late Princess Diana famously dance with on stage at the Royal Opera House in London in 1985? A: Wayne Sleep
Q: The residents of which German town put on a world-famous Passion Play every ten years? A: Oberammergau
Q: Which US singer/actress produced the Broadway production of ‘Priscilla Queen of the Dessert’? A: Bette Midler
Q: Which US President had a cloakroom converted into a movie theatre in the White House? A: Franklin D Roosevelt
Q: The Pomegranate Theatre is in which English town? A: Chesterfield
Q: Which English playwright was the first person to use the word ‘bloody’ over the air at the BBC in his song ‘Let’s Not Be Beastly to the Germans’? A: Noel Coward
Q: Which actress, while dressed as the queen, left the Guilgud Theatre in London to shout at drummers outside who were disturbing the play? A: Helen Mirren
Q: Playwright Alan Bennett taught medieval history at which university? A: Oxford University
Q: The song ‘Merry Christmas Maggie Thatcher’ is from which British stage musical? A: Billy Elliot
Q: Before he became pope, which Pope wrote a play called ‘The Jeweller’s Shop’? A: Pope John Paul II
Q: Which stage musical was forced to close in 1973 when the roof of the Shaftesbury Theatre in London collapsed? A: Hair
Q: Which Irish playwright was the co-founder of the London School of Economics? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Who are Vladimir and Estragon waiting for in a 1950’s play by Samuel Beckett? A: Godot
Q: Which British theatre hosted the 2013 Royal Variety Performance? A: London Palladium
Q: Which French cabaret theatre has a windmill on its roof? A: Moulin Rouge
Q: A decennial event occurs every how many years? A: Ten
Q: In which Agatha Christie novel does Hercule Poirot commit murder? A: Curtain
Q: A group of which birds is known as an Unkindness? A: Ravens
Q: Janet Weiss, Brad Majors and Magenta are all characters from which 1975 musical film? A: The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: ‘You’re doing fine’ is the call for which Bingo number? A: 29
Q: In which month in 1990 was Nelson Mandela released from prison in South Africa? A: February
Q: Which is the third planet from the Sun? A: Earth
Q: The song ‘Tea For Two’ is from which 1925 musical? A: No, No, Nanette
Q: Who played Jodie Foster’s lawyer, Kathryn Murphy, in the 1988 film ‘The Accused’? A: Kelly McGillis
Q: Which creature represents the Deadly Sin of Avarice? A: Toad
Q: Photographer Ansel Adams was famous for his photographs of what? A: Landscapes
Q: Which vegetable is traditionally the main ingredient in a Spanish omelette? A: Potato
Q: Which late US actor was born Bernard Schwartz in 1925? A: Tony Curtis
Q: What is the southernmost capital city in the world? A: Wellington
Q: The 1999 autobiography ‘Still Me’ is by which late US actor? A: Christopher Reeve
Q: General Benedict Arnold switched allegiance to the British side during which war? A: American War of Independence
Q: The Commissioner’s Trophy is awarded annually for which sport? A: Baseball
Q: To which British entertainer did songwriter/composer Lionel Bart sell the rights to the musical ‘Oliver!’ for a reputed 350 pounds sterling? A: Max Bygraves
Q: Who was the longest-serving Leader of the Opposition in British political history? A: Neil Kinnock
Q: Campsa, New Holland and Repoil are bends on the Formula One Grand Prix circuit in which country? A: Spain
Q: Which US Apollo astronaut died on 25th August 2012? A: Neil Armstrong
Q: Which UK television quiz show had the theme tune ‘Acka Raga’, performed by John Meyer on the sitar? A: Ask the Family
Q: In which European country is the 1983 film ‘Local Hero’ set? A: Scotland
Q: What is the name of the UK investment banking company which collapsed after Broker Nick Leeson lost 1.3 billion dollars on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in 1995? A: Barings Bank
Q: The adrenal glands are situated above which organs in the human body? A: Kidneys
Q: In the sport of fencing, what is the name of a bladework manoeuvre intended to deflect or block an incoming attack? A: Parry
Q: What was the first name of British Prime Minister Gladstone? A: William
Q: Which British coastal town is known as ‘The Pearl of Dorset’? A: Lyme Regis
Q: Mawrth is Welsh for which month of the year? A: March
Q: The Dogger Bank earthquake of June 1931, the strongest ever in the UK, reportedly caused the wax head of which infamous murderer to fall off in London’s Madame Tussaud’s? A: Dr Crippen
Q: Runnymede, where the Magna Carta was said to have been sealed by King John, is in which English county? A: Surrey
Q: What is the surname of Terry, played by James Bolam, in the UK 1960’s television series ‘The Likely lads’? A: Collier
Q: In astronomy, Pulsar, Binary, Dwarf and Red Giant are all types of what? A: Star
Q: A bloater is which fish salted, smoked and partially dried? A: Herring
Q: Which Scottish city is known as the ‘Capital of the Highlands’? A: Inverness
Q: English country and western songwriter Samuel Hutt is better known by what name? A: Hank Wangford
Q: Former football player Eusebio, who died in January 2014, played for which national team? A: Portugal
Q: In November 1990, Mary Robinson defeated Brian Lenihan to become the first female President of which country? A: Ireland
Q: What is the name of the Trust, founded in 1986, which specialises in the removal of the debris of war, such as landmines? A: The HALO Trust
Q: Which vegetable represented the green team on the UK television series ‘Ready Steady Cook’? A: Pepper
Q: How many dresses are in the title of a 2008 film starring Katherine Heigl? A: 27
Q: According to the Bible, which part of Goliath’s body did David cut off? A: Head
Q: Which former Coronation Street actress was born Shirley Anne Broadbent? A: Amanda Barrie
Q: Alexandra of Denmark was the wife of which British monarch? A: King Edward VII
Q: What is the name of the oblong metal ring with a spring clip, used in mountaineering to attach a running rope to a piton or similar device? A: Carabiner
Q: During which year did a man last walk on the moon? A: 1972
Q: Which country won the 2013 ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup? A: Australia
Q: ‘Boker tov’ is Hebrew for what? A: Good morning
Q: Which is the largest island of England? A: Isle of Wight
Q: Which English dramatist wrote ‘The Relapse, or, Virtue in Danger’ in 1696 A: Sir John Vanbrugh
Q: Dr Tom Parry Jones, who died in January 2013, developed and marketed which ‘road safety’ device in 1967? A: Electronic Breathalyser
Q: Basildon and Harlow are towns in which English county? A: Essex
Q: ‘Satis’ is the name of the house in which Charles Dickens novel? A: Great Expectations
Q: Which British cartoon strip character is known as Willi Wacker in Germany? A: Andy Capp
Q: The first inauguration of which US President took place aboard a plane? A: Lyndon B Johnson
Q: In Norse mythology who is known as ‘The Trickster God’? A: Loki
Q: Susanna Hall was the eldest daughter of which English playwright? A: William Shakespeare
Q: In the 1977 song by Elvis Costello, what colour shoes do the angels want to wear? A: Red
Q: Bad Finger, King Krule and the Dave Matthews Band all released a song about which colour Baby? A: Blue
Q: Amy Winehouse had a 2006 hit single with ‘Back to ‘what’? A: Black
Q: What colour is the Big Taxi in the 1970 Joni Mitchell song? A: Yellow
Q: What colour are the Fields in the 1993 single by Sting? A: Gold
Q: What colour is the title of a song on the album ‘Sonik Kicks’ by Paul Weller? A: Green
Q: What colour is the Cortina in a 1978 single by The Tom Robinson Band? A: Grey
Q: What is the title of a 1968 hit single by The Scaffold which is a modernisation of an older folk song called The Ballad of Lydia Pinkham’? A: Lily the Pink
Q: In a 1964 single by The Rolling Stones what type of bird was Little and Red? A: Rooster
Q: What was White in a 1982 single by Nazareth? A: Bicycle
Q: What colour is the Haze in a 1967 single by Jimi Hendrix? A: Purple
Q: What colour Lipstick is the title of a song on the album ‘Talk the Talk’ by Rihanna? A: Red
Q: Who had a 1972 hit single with ‘Song Sung Blue’? A: Neil Diamond
Q: Which singer released a 2013 song called ‘Yellow Raincoat’, which is supposedly about his former girlfriend Selena Gomez? A: Justin Bieber
Q: What colour is the Crush, a song from the 1988 album ‘Green’ by REM? A: Orange
Q: What colour eyes does the Handsome Man have in a 1957 song by Chuck Berry? A: Brown
Q: The song ‘Scarlet’ is from which 1981 album by U2? A: October
Q: Who was holding a Silver Hammer in the 1969 song from the Abbey Road Album by The Beatles? A: Maxwell
Q: In October 1992, which baseball team became the first non-USA team to win the World Series? A: The Toronto Blue Jays
Q: In 1932, who was the only Premier of an Australian state (New South Wales) to have been dismissed from his post by the state governor? A: Jack Lang
Q: The fictional television character Lady Penelope, who appeared in ‘Thunderbirds’, was created and voiced by who in the original series? A: Sylvia Anderson
Q: What was the name of the first permanent English settlement in North America? A: Jamestown
Q: Which element is contained in the molecules of organic compounds? A: Carbon
Q: Kwaito is a music genre which originated in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Who wrote the 1851 novel ‘Moby Dick’? A: Herman Melville
Q: What type of creature did Daisy Morris, a nine year old from the Isle of Wight, have named after her in 2013? A: A dinosaur
Q: Singer Cornell Iral Haynes Jr is better known by what name? A: Nelly
Q: The 1986 autobiography ‘Going Solo’ is by which British author? A: Roald Dahl
Q: In food, E330 is better known by what name? A: Citric acid
Q: Blue Gloss is a variety of which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: Who is the husband of actress/clinical psychologist Pamela Stephenson? A: Billy Connelly
Q: A silverback is what type of animal? A: Gorilla
Q: Guy Fawkes night is celebrated during which month of the year? A: November
Q: Which model car was launched by British Leyland in October 1980? A: Austin (Mini) Metro
Q: Which late fashion designer had the middle names Henri Donat Mathieu? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: What is the US state capital of Florida? A: Tallahasee
Q: Who plays veteran racing driver  Joe Tanto in the 2001 film ‘Driven’? A: Sylvester Stallone
Q: Toucher, Narrow and Bias are all terms used in which sport? A: Bowls (lawn)
Q: In 2002 Steve Fossett became the first solo person to circumnavigate the world non-stop and single-handed in what? A: Hot-air balloon
Q: What is the first name of the nephew of Ebenezer Scrooge, son of his sister Fran, in the Charles Dickens novel ‘A Christmas Carol’? A: Fred
Q: Which English artist and poet was known to introduce himself as ‘Mr Abebika Kratoponoko Prizzikalo Kattefello Ablegorabalus Anleborinto Phashyph’? A: Edward Lear
Q: Arancione is Italian for which colour? A: Orange
Q: The 1977 autobiography ‘Tall, Dark and Gruesome’ is by which British Actor? A: Christopher Lee
Q: In the US television series ‘The Sopranos’, who had to return to Italy after a flirtation with Tony Soprano’s wife Carmela? A: Furio Giunta
Q: Which country hosted the 1998 Winter Olympic Games? A: Japan
Q: In November 1990 Mian Nawaz Sharif became Prime Minister of which Asian country? A: Pakistan
Q: Which island is divided among Brunei, Malaysia and Indonesia? A: Borneo
Q: Which ‘ology’ is the search or study of animals whose existence has not been proven, such as the Yeti or Loch Ness Monster? A: Cryptozoology
Q: What is the name of a triangular piece of material that is inserted in a garment to make it flared or for ornamentation? A: Godet
Q: Adelost cheese is made in which European country? A: Sweden
Q: Charlotte was the daughter of Caroline of Brunswick and which future British monarch? A: King George IV
Q: The Amazon Rainforest is located in which continent? A: South America
Q: What is the name of the plump, clumsy fairy in the children’s television series ‘Willo the Wisp’? A: Mavis Cruet
Q: Which fictional character was crowned as the ‘Pope of Fools’ in an 1831 novel? A: Quasimodo
Q: Jaffa is an ancient port in which country? A: Israel
Q: ‘Love is Like a Butterfly’ is a 1974 single written and recorded by which US singer? A: Dolly Parton
Q: Which letter is furthest to the right on a top letter row on a computer keyboard? A: P
Q: Clanger, a dish with a savoury filling at one end and a sweet filling at the other end, is from which English county? A: Bedfordshire
Q: What type of flesh does a pescatarian eat? A: Fish
Q: Which Asian country is known as the ‘Land of Smiles’? A: Thailand
Q: London landmark The Shaftesbury Memorial is better known by what name? A: Eros
Q: What is the surname of Buffy, the Vampire Slayer, in the US television series? A: Summers
Q: Sitophilia is the use of what for sexual arousal? A: Food
Q: A bammy (or bami) is a flatbread originating in which country? A: Jamaica
Q: What shape, typically, is an ingot? A: Rectangular
Q: Rothschild, Kordofan, Nubian and Rhodesian are all species of which animal? A: Giraffe
Q: On a regular clockface which number lies opposite 2? A: 8
Q: Akane is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: Robert Mitchum plays Reverend Harry Powell in which 1955 film? A: The Night of the Hunter
Q: Sometimes called a ‘Mercyseat’, what is the name of the small wooden shelf on the underside of a folding seat in a church? A: Misericord
Q: Which car has a logo shaped like a letter ‘C’ with a yellow triangle? A: Smart Car
Q: The Idle Working Men’s Club is in the village of Idle in which English city suburb? A: Bradford
Q: Who plays Calvin J Candie in the 2012 film ‘Django Unchained’? A: Leonardo DiCaprio
Q: Which fruit is traditionally used in the recipe for Liverpool Tart? A: Lemon
Q: After the ‘Mutiny on the Bounty’ Captain Bligh and several of his crew were set afloat in a small boat in which they journeyed to which island? A: Timor
Q: Lake Mamry and Lake Drawsko are in which European country? A: Poland
Q: Dydd Sadwrn is Welsh for which day of the week? A: Saturday
Q: ‘Waverley’ is the title of the first prose novel by which British historical novelist/poet? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: In the first Harry Potter novel who is the headmaster of Hogwart’s School of Witchcraft and Wizardry? A: Professor Albus Dumbledore
Q: In October 1977 three members of which US rock band died in a plane crash in Mississippi, three days after the release of their album ‘Street Survivors’? A: Lynryd Skynyrd
Q: Gorgonzola cheese is from which country? A: Italy
Q: What is the title of the 2001 film in which Russell Crowe plays mathematician John Nash? A: A Beautiful Mind
Q: Lonicera is the Latin name for which garden plant? A: Honeysuckle
Q: In nature, Greco, Ostro, Libeccio and Sirocco are all types of what? A: Winds
Q: Who plays Seymour Parish in the 2001 film ‘One Hour Photo’? A: Robin Williams
Q: Suva is the capital of which South Pacific island? A: Fiji
Q: What type of meat dish is known as ‘Savoury Ducks’? A: Faggots
Q: What was the first name of the wife of US President George Washington? A: Martha
Q: Dungeness is a headland on the coast of which English county? A: Kent
Q: Which car manufacturer has a logo with two overlapping letter ‘R’s’ A: Rolls Royce
Q: What are the middle names of British monarch Queen Elizabeth II? A: Alexandra Mary
Q: A Sachertorte is a type of cake which traditionally has a layer of which flavour jam? A: Apricot
Q: Spud-gun, Dave Hedgehog, Dick Head and Mr Harrison are all characters in which UK television series? A: Bottom
Q: Urtication is the use of which plant to stimulate the skin? A: Nettle
Q: Mr and Mrs Spoon, Tina Teaspoon and Eggbert are all characters in which UK children’s television series? A: Button Moon
Q: US author Truman Strekfus Persons is better known by what name? A: Truman Capote
Q: Which English county is known as ‘The Red Rose County’? A: Lancashire
Q: Which late British actor and game show host was the voice of space navigator Brad Newman in the 1966 film ‘Thunderbirds Are Go’? A: Bob Monkhouse
Q: Which was the first car manufacturer to offer a 7year/150,000 km warranty on all cars sold in Europe? A: Kia
Q: Pineapple, Armandinho and Fluke are all types of which musical instrument? A: Ukulele
Q: Stan and Francine Smith are the parents in which US television cartoon series? A: American Dad
Q: Which opera by Mozart is said to have revealed secrets of The Freemasons? A: The Magic Flute
Q: What was the former name of the Royal Pavilion in Brighton? A: The Marine Pavilion
Q: Adnams Brewery is based in which English county? A: Suffolk
Q: What type of creature is a godwit? A: Bird
Q: Which Roman numerals depict the year 1991? A: MCMXCI
Q: The world’s oldest original model village is in which English county? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: The Bleinhem Cocktail was created for the 90th birthday of which British politician? A: Winston Churchill
Q: The 1987 autobiography ‘They Made a Monkee Out of Me’ is by which member of The Monkees? A: Davy Jones
Q: Which is the largest island of Asia? A: Borneo
Q: ‘I’ll eat my ‘what’ is a favourite expression of Mr Grimwig in the novel Oliver Twist by Charles Dickens? A: Head
Q: Helena is the capital of which US state? A: Montana
Q: The Grey Cup is awarded to the champions of the Football League in which country? A: Canada
Q: What is the national animal of Greenland? A: Polar Bear
Q: Brilla soup is traditionally made using which meat? A: Beef
Q: The 2010 memoir ‘Life’ is by which member of the Rolling Stones? A: Keith Richards
Q: Margaret Thatcher, former British Prime Minister, was elected as Conservative MP for which London borough in 1959? A: Finchley
Q: Wet Chemical, Dry Powder, CO2, and Foam are all types of which appliance? A: Fire extinguisher
Q: Da Nang International Airport and Tan Son Nhat International Airport are located in which Asian country? A: Vietnam
Q: The Tabqa Dam is in which country? A: Syria
Q: Bikram, Anusara, Kundalini and Iyengar are all types of which activity? A: Yoga
Q: What is the name of Rose’s granddaughter in the 1997 film ‘Titanic’? A: Lizzy Calvert
Q: What relation was British monarch Queen Victoria to Prince Albert before their marriage? A: First cousin
Q: The father of which US actress was the first US professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist studies? A: Uma Thurman
Q: Meles Zenawi was elected Prime Minister of which African country in 1995? A: Ethiopia
Q: Which US television fantasy drama series is set in the fictional Seven Kingdoms of Westeros? A: Game of Thrones
Q: Zuniga, Escamillo and Frasquita are characters from which opera? A: Carmen
Q: Acajou is another name for which nut? A: Cashew
Q: In the Bible, Apollyon is the angel of the ‘what’? A: Bottomless Pit
Q: Baby, Ginger, Scary, Sporty and Posh were all members of which girl band? A: Spice Girls
Q: What word means to rely on for support or inspiration, and containing little or no fat? A: Lean
Q: What is the fiery liquid that flows from a volcano? A: Lava
Q: In the children’s television series ‘Telletubbies’ what is the Nuu-Nuu? A: Vacuum cleaner
Q: Who wrote the novel ‘Nicholas Nickleby’? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Actor Jack Nicholson won his first Best Actor Oscar for which film? A: One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest
Q: What is the name of the Jack Russell dog in the US television series ‘Frasier’? A: Eddie
Q: What is the square root of 900? A: 30
Q: Desperate Dan appears in which comic book? A: The Dandy
Q: Cato is the manservant of which fictional character? A: Inspector Jacques Clouseau
Q: Frances Hodgson Burnett wrote the 1911 novel ‘The Secret ‘what’? A: Garden
Q: Billy Batson is the alter-ego of which fictional superhero? A: Captain Marvel
Q: Love apple is another name for what? A: Tomato
Q: Water is made up of which two elements? A: Oxygen and hydrogen
Q: The late media proprietor Robert Maxwell became Member of Parliament for which UK constituency in 1964? A: Buckingham
Q: Who wrote the 1898 book ‘The War of the Worlds’? A: H G Wells
Q: Pernio is the Latin name for which medical complaint? A: Chilblain
Q: Traditionally a ‘coven’ traditionally refers to a meeting of how many witches? A: 13
Q: In the ‘Harry Potter’ series of books what is the American version of the game of Quidditch? A: Quodpot
Q: Which European porcelain company introduced its black and white ‘Dazzle’ collection in 2013? A: Lladro
Q: Which Egyptian Pharoah was known as ‘The Boy King’? A: Tutankhamun
Q: Corriedale is a breed of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: Winnipeg is the capital of which Canadian province? A: Manitoba
Q: What is the first name of US actor Al Pacino? A: Alfredo
Q: Which year in the 1970’s saw three popes? A: 1978
Q: In the game of Bingo ‘Kelly’s Eye’ is the nickname for which number? A: One
Q: In our solar system which is the 5th planet from the Sun? A: Jupiter
Q: A gourami is what type of creature? A: Fish
Q: Robert Stephen Rintoul was the founding editor of which British magazine, first published in 1928? A: The Spectator
Q: In cooking, Senf is German for which condiment? A: Mustard
Q: What were the first names of the characters played by Jason Donovan and Kylie Minogue in the Australian series ‘Neighbours’? A: Scott and Charlene
Q: Which 1959 film, starring Hayley Mills, is based on a short story by Noel Calef called ‘Rodolphe et le Revolver’? A: Tiger Bay
Q: ‘The Telephone Song’ and ‘Last Night of the World’ are songs from which musical? A: Miss Saigon
Q: Malia and Natasha are the daughters of which US President? A: Barack Obama
Q: Gimpo International Airport is located in which Asian city? A: Seoul
Q: In food, ‘E’ numbers 140-149 are which colour? A: Green
Q: British actress Audrey Kathleen Ruston was better known by what name? A: Audrey Hepburn
Q: Which is the largest city in Scotland by population? A: Glasgow
Q: In the US television series, what type of car did Starsky and Hutch drive? A: Gran Torino
Q: What replaced the iron in the board game Monopoly? A: Cat
Q: Zoey Barkow, Kevin Peyton, Eddie Walzer and Fitch Cooper are all characters in which US television series? A: Nurse Jackie
Q: What are the first names of the parents of Kate, Duchess of Cambridge? A: Carole and Michael
Q: Hinge, Saddle, Pivot and Gliding are all types of what in the human body? A: Joint
Q: ‘Songs My Mother Taught Me’ is a 1995 autobiography by which US actor? A: Marlon Brando
Q: Bati beer is brewed in which African country? A: Ethiopia
Q: The Golden Cage is an annual award given to the best goalkeeper in football in which European country? A: Denmark
Q: What is the capital of US state Minnesota? A: Saint Paul
Q: What is the first name of US actor and film director Spike Lee? A: Shelton
Q: Lappi is what type of foodstuff? A: Cheese
Q: Aamisepa Varajane is a variety of which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: Which British monarch donated the King’s Cup for the Cowes Week Race? A: King George IV
Q: Which country is bordered by the Gaza Strip, Israel, Libya and Sudan? A: Egypt
Q: A bergamot is known as what type of fruit? A: Orange
Q: In humans, citguatera is an illness caused by eating contaminated what? A: Fish
Q: Which is the only planet in our solar system to have water in three states of matter: solid, liquid and gas? A: Earth
Q: Hals is German for which part of the body? A: Neck
Q: Lester and Carolyn Burnham are characters in which 1999 film? A: American Beauty
Q: The majority of the Amazon Rainforest is contained within which country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the name of the US electric car manufacturer, founded in 2003, whose cars include the Model S and the Model X? A: Tesla Motors Inc
Q: The English city of Sheffield lies on which river? A: River Sheaf
Q: Which Chinese dish is traditionally used in a St Paul Sandwich, which originated in a Chinese restaurant in Missouri? A: Egg foo yung
Q: Who conducted interviews lying on a bed in the UK television show ‘The Big Breakfast’? A: Paula Yates
Q: What is the capital of Kuwait? A: Kuwait City
Q: Galanthus nivalis is the Latin Name for which garden flower? A: Snowdrop
Q: People born on April 17th have which sign of the Zodiac? A: Aries
Q: Which European capital city lies on the River Vistula? A: Warsaw
Q: ‘Balls of ‘what’ is a UK television comedy series hosted by Mark Dolan? A: Steel
Q: Siderodromophobia is the irrational fear of which mode of transport? A: Trains
Q: Who was US President during the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: John F Kennedy
Q: A titi is what type of animal? A: Monkey
Q: Pieter, Griet, Maria Thins and Cornelia Vermeer are all characters in which 2008 play? A: Girl With a Pearl Earring
Q: A ‘classical’ guitar is popularly referred to as what nationality? A: Spanish
Q: Who sang with James Taylor on hits Mockingbird and How Sweet It Is? A: Carly Simon
Q: At which ‘Field’ was Richard III’s final battle? A: Bosworth
Q: Name the USSR world-beating 1959-76 Moon program/craft? A: Luna
Q: What was S Vietnam’s Ho Chi Minh City called before 1976? A: Saigon
Q: The moss Sphagnum produces what traditional ancient fuel? A: Peat
Q: The Mossbauer effect refers to which sort of radiation? A: Gamma
Q: The mountain ash, Sorbus aucuparia, and its berry is called what? A: Rowan
Q: Which country originated the motor scooter? A: Italy
Q: A mouflon is a Coriscan wild species of what domesticated creature? A: Sheep
Q: The nymph Daphne became a laurel tree escaping which Greek god? A: Apollo
Q: Rene Descartes’ quote ‘Cogito ergo sum’ means what in English? A: I think therefore I am
Q: Crown Derby is what sort of antique? A: Porcelain
Q: The removal of salt from brine to produce fresh water is commonly named what? A: Desalination
Q: What was the German WWII air force called? A: Luftwaffe
Q: To what colour is the human eye most sensitive? A: Green
Q: St Moritz in Switzerland has what famous Bobsled track? A: Cresta Run
Q: What marten, Martes zibellina, was a prized fur and erroneously a fine paintbrush? A: Sable
Q: What orange black and white creature is Vanessa cardui? A: Painted Lady (butterfly)
Q: Galilean, Keplerian, Newtonian and Conde are types of what instrument? A: Telescope
Q: What ancient rulers wore a double-crown symbolizing their joined upper and lower lands? A: Pharoahs
Q: What type of lens bends parallel rays inwards: convex or concave? A: Convex
Q: Mumps can spread, rarely, where in adult males, with permanent procreational effect? A: Testicles
Q: The arbalest/arblast is a medieval more powerful developed version of which weapon? A: Crossbow
Q: What mineral caused the founding of S Africaâs Johannesburg in 1886? A: Gold
Q: In the greeenhouse effect ultraviolet light is reradiated and absorbed as what invisible energy? A: Infrared
Q: The Cyclades are an eastern island group of which nation? A: Greece
Q: What chemical element (Cu) is named after Cyprus? A: Copper
Q: Insurgents of what nation took part in the Easter Rising of 1916? A: Ireland
Q: A red giant star typically evolves when its central hydrogen has converted to what gas? A: Helium
Q: Refraction concerns a changed direction of sound, radiation, a river or a missile? A: radiation
Q: The 2005 US film ‘Fever Pitch’, starring Drew Barrymore, is about which sport? A: Baseball
Q: In Europe, which colour denotes the easiest ski slope for skiers? A: Green
Q: What was the first name of Irish author Bram Stoker? A: Abraham
Q: Templeton Peck is a character in which US television series? A: The A Team
Q: Who plays Winston Wolf in the Direct Line Insurance television advertisements? A: Harvey Keitel
Q: Which British politician was dubbed ‘Big Beast’ by the press, and was also known for his fondness for Hush Puppies’? A: Kenneth Clarke
Q: What is the name of the paranoid android in the novel ‘The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy’ by Douglas Adams? A: Marvin
Q: Who designed the wedding dress worn by Kate Middleton, the Duchess of Cambridge? A: Sarah Burton
Q: ‘A ‘what’ in the Sun’ is a 1959 play by Lorraine Hansbury? A: Raisin
Q: Who plays Edward Cullen in the ‘Twilight’ film series? A: Robert Pattinson
Q: Used in church advent services, a Christingle is made using which fruit? A: Orange
Q: US author and poet Dorothy Parker coined the phrase ‘Men seldom make passes at girls who wear ‘what’? A: Glasses
Q: What is the title of the second novel featuring Sherlock Holmes, by Arthur Conan Doyle? A: The Sign of Four
Q: Comedian Larry David starred in the US television show ‘Curb Your ‘what’? A: Enthusiasm
Q: According to Dart Board Regulations, how high should the centre of the bullseye be from the floor in feet and inches? A: 5 feet 8 inches
Q: In the novel ‘Martin Chuzzlewit’ by Charles Dickens, what is the name of the inn run by Mrs Lupin? A: The Blue Dragon Inn
Q: What type of animal is a macaque? A: Monkey
Q: Coulrophobia is the fear of what type of people? A: Clowns
Q: In the US television show ‘The Sopranos’, what is the first name of Salvatore Bonpensiero’s (Big Pussy) wife? A: Angie
Q: In March 1990 who was elected as the first-ever President of the Soviet Union? A: Mikhail Gorbachev
Q: The Frog Cake was created in 1922 by Balfours Bakery in which country? A: Australia
Q: Saga and Stichelton are types of which foodstuff? A: Cheese
Q: In the theatre, topophobia is commonly known as what? A: Stage fright
Q: Gunnersaurus Rex is the mascot of which English football club? A: Arsenal FC
Q: Who became the presenter of the UK television show ‘Antiques Roadshow’ in 2008? A: Fiona Bruce
Q: Gabel is German for which item of cutlery? A: Fork
Q: The letter ‘Z’ is worth how many points in the Polish edition of the board game Scrabble? A: One point
Q: ‘Blue Monday’, said to be the most depressing day of the year, falls during which month? A: January
Q: Former Formula One racing driver Nelson Piquet was born in which country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the highest straight flush in a game of poker? A: Royal Flush
Q: The resort island of Boracay forms part of which country? A: Philippines
Q: What is the name of the medal known internationally as the animals Victoria Cross? A: The (PDSA) Dickin Medal
Q: Aurora, Chandler, Legacy and Reka are all varieties of which fruit? A: Blueberry
Q: Hombro is Spanish for which part of the body? A: Shoulder
Q: Which US boxer was born Joseph Barrow? A: Joe Louis
Q: ‘Take Me Home’ is a 1995 autobiography by which late US singer? A: John Denver
Q: Which English city is known as ‘The Faithful City’? A: Worcester
Q: Emetophobia is the irrational fear of which bodily function? A: Vomiting
Q: Suzy and the Red Stripes was a pseudonym used by which English band for the release of the 1977 single ‘Seaside Woman’? A: Wings
Q: Who won a gold medal in the women’s 400m hurdles at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona? A: Sally Gunnell
Q: Spokes, Ribs, Rim Row and Lashing are all terms used in which handicraft? A: Basket weaving
Q: The cultivation of which crop was banned in France in 1748 because it was thought to cause leprosy? A: Potato
Q: The Dally M Awards are held annually for players of which sport? A: Rugby League
Q: Who played the title role in the 1996 film ‘The English Patient’? A: Ralph Fiennes
Q: In the Scottish expression ‘Lang may yer lum reek’, what is a ‘lum’? A: CHIMNEY
Q: With whom are pirates having an adventure in the title of a 2012 animated film? A: SCIENTISTS
Q: Politics. Who was Leader of the Opposition in the U.K. from 1994 to 1997? A: TONY BLAIR
Q: In what year did Princess Diana die? A: 1997
Q: Ayrton Senna’s nephew is himself a famous Formula 1 driver. What is his first name? A: BRUNO
Q: Which team in the English Soccer Premiership is furthest to the west? A: SWANSEA City
Q: Which actress and former model is the mother of Melanie Griffith? A: TIPPI HEDREN
Q: What is the name of the national airline of Spain? A: IBERIA
Q: What word in our language comes from the Icelandic word for ‘to gush’? A: GEYSER
Q: In which English county will you find Wisbech? A: CAMBRIDGESHIRE
Q: What is the first name of Bill Gates’s wife? A: MELINDA
Q: In the UK these books are called ‘Where’s Wally?’ What is his name in the USA? A: WALDO
Q: What was the name of the dwarf who is a chief character in ‘Lord of the Rings’? A: GIMLI
Q: What bird is mentioned in the lyrics of ‘My Old Man (Said Follow the Van)’? A: LINNET
Q: Which mountain range is often described as “the backbone of England”? A: The PENNINES
Q: Born 1899, died 1947 (cardiac arrest). Indicted for tax evasion in 1931. Who was he? A: AL CAPONE
Q: Which jockey won the Derby in 1979, 1980, 1989 and 1994? A: WILLIE CARSON
Q: Who was the creator of the St. Trinian’s schoolgirls? A: RONALD SEARLE
Q: American E.F.Blackwood gave his name to a common tactic used in which game? A: Bridge
Q: What is the proper scientific name for table sugar? A: Sucrose
Q: Which band was Up The Junction in 1979? A: Squeeze
Q: A Shavian is a big fan and aficionado of which famous playwright? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: What sport is contested in the Vuelta a Espana? A: Cycling
Q: Which modern musical instrument used to be called the 'sackbut'? A: Trombone
Q: Which style or school of art did Picasso pioneer? A: Cubism
Q: Which political party did Picasso join in 1944? A: Communist
Q: In which novel does William Dobbin finally win the hand of Amelia Sedley? A: Vanity Fair
Q: The word ‘haptic’ relates to which of the five senses? A: Touch
Q: What name is given to the negative electrode of an electrolytic cell? A: Cathode
Q: Which substance is also known as ‘woolly rock’? A: Asbestos
Q: Of whom did Princess Diana say ‘Yes I adored him’. ‘Yes I was in love with him’? A: James Hewitt
Q: Which member of the royal family is often referred to as ‘Princess Pushy’? A: Princess Michael of Kent
Q: Which baronet had an eight-year affair with Princess Margaret in the 1970s? A: Roddy Llewellyn
Q: A boomer is a large male ...............what? A: Kangaroo
Q: Which is the smallest ape? A: Gibbon
Q: What name is given to areas of land in Holland that have been reclaimed from the sea? A: Polders
Q: What is significant about a mountain called a ‘mesa’? A: Flat Topped
Q: What is the name for snow overhanging the edge of a mountain ridge? A: Cornice
Q: What was Miss Piggy’s surname on the Muppet Show? A: Lee
Q: Which Northumberland heroine was the daughter of the keeper of the Longstone lighthouse? A: Grace Darling
Q: What term is used for the vast plains of Northern Asia? A: Steppes
Q: Which branch of medicine is concerned with providing artificial limbs for the human body? A: Prosthetics
Q: Which 60s chart-topping band were originally called The Alan Price Combo? A: The Animals
Q: Who has the Jack Regan role in the new movie version of The Sweeney? A: Ray Winstone
Q: Who won the first ever women’s boxing gold at any Olympics? A: Nicola Adams
Q: Natalie Bennett was announced as the new leader of what? A: The Green Party
Q: Which famous song was composed by Claude Roget de Lisle? A: Le Marseillaise
Q: Who wrote the words to Jerusalem? A: William Blake
Q: Which authority looks after Britain’s lighthouses? A: Trinity House
Q: At what time does the first dog watch begin? A: 4 p.m
Q: Which king was the target of the Popish Plot and the Rye House Plot? A: Charles II
Q: Who was the last Roman Catholic king of England? A: James II
Q: In which county is there an area called The Fylde? A: Lancashire
Q: On which river does Preston stand? A: Ribble
Q: What is the Administrative HQ of East Sussex? A: Lewes
Q: Which comedian co-stars with fellow comic Lee Mack in TV’s Not Going Out? A: Tim Vine
Q: What distinction has (Henry) Pu Yi? A: Last Emperor of China
Q: Which creature has a variety known as the 'Bottlenosed'? A: Dolphin
Q: What is the correct name for the lie detector? A: Polygraph
Q: Which seasonal song was written by Robbie Burns? A: Auld Lang Syne
Q: In World War Two Operation Avalanche was the Allied Invasion of which country? A: Italy
Q: Who famously left from Scampton? A: The Dam Busters
Q: In The Good Life what was Lenin? A: A Cockerel
Q: In which sitcom did Dorien Green appear? A: Birds of a Feather
Q: Who was Edina’s PA in Absolutely Fabulous? A: Bubble
Q: What opened in 1958 in Marylebone Rd next to Madame Tussauds? A: The Planetarium
Q: Tower Bridge was for many years the last of London’s bridges before the sea – what is now? A: The Queen Elizabeth II
Q: What is computer assisted in the acronym CAD? A: Design
Q: What is a line that joins two points of a circle? A: Chord
Q: Which son of King David was caught by his hair in a tree while fleeing on a mule? A: Absalom
Q: Who was the false god representing greed and wealth cited in the New Testament? A: Mammon
Q: Of which race was Delilah a member? A: Philistine
Q: Lake Vanern is the largest lake in which country? A: Sweden
Q: What is the capital of Sardinia? A: Cagliari
Q: King Michael abdicated in 1947 from which throne? A: Romania
Q: Whose forthcoming musical is entitled Viva Forever? A: The Spice Girls
Q: Tasseomancy is the reading of what? A: Tea Leaves
Q: Who plays the chief villain in the new James Bond film Skyfall? A: Javier Bardem
Q: Which city state led the beaten Greek forces at the Battle of Thermopylae? A: Sparta
Q: In which city is the Topkapi Palace? A: Istanbul
Q: Which regiment is nicknamed The Red Devils? A: Parachute Regiment
Q: Which is the oldest Oxford college? A: University College
Q: In which country are the Ribbon Falls? A: USA
Q: Tachophobia is an inordinate fear of what? A: Speed
Q: Which familiar word is derived from the Greek for “mother city”? A: Metropolis
Q: The name of which musical instrument is German for “bell play”? A: Glockenspiel
Q: Which fictional detective married author Harriet Vane? A: Lord Peter Wimsey
Q: The parish church of Ambridge is dedicated to which saint? A: Saint Stephen
Q: What does an ethologist study? A: Animal behaviour
Q: Who, according to the Goodies, was the “Queen of Northern Soul”? A: Black Pudding Bertha
Q: Which scientific endeavour is frequently abbreviated as SETI*? A: Search for Extra-terrestrial
Q: The Rutshire Chronicles is a series of romantic novels by which author? A: Jilly Cooper
Q: What venue links the first FA Cup final and the first cricket test in England? A: THE OVAL
Q: Which singer was the first black person to host his own US TV series? A: NAT KING COLE
Q: Created in 1872, what was the name of the world’s First National Park? A: YELLOWSTONE
Q: LM The first film Oscar winner to have both parents who both also won film Oscars? A: LIZA MINELLI
Q: LS What is the name of the famous Opera House in Milan, opened in 1778? A: LA SCALA
Q: SE Which London Institution is based at 10 Paternoster Sq.? A: STOCK EXCHANGE
Q: WB An apparatus used to measure electrical resistance? A: WHEATSTONE BRIDGE
Q: AM Which fashion designer committed suicide in 2010? A: ALEXANDER MCQUEEN
Q: Which cartoon title family live in Orbit City? A: THE JETSONS
Q: Where in the body is the Malleus bone? A: EAR
Q: In which country is the ‘Van’ a large Salt Lake? A: TURKEY
Q: According to Oscar Wilde what is the curse of the drinking class? A: WORK
Q: Who was the first President of the Royal Academy in 1768? A: JOSHUA REYNOLDS
Q: Which character fell asleep in The Catskills for 20 years? A: RIP VAN WINKLE
Q: Which European peak has the nickname ’meanest mountain on earth’? A: EIGER
Q: Tom, Tom the piper’s son could only play which tune? A: OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY
Q: Which 1993 film saw Sly Stallone battle against John Lythgoe? A: CLIFFHANGER
Q: From which mountain did Moses descend with the Ten Commandments? A: SINAI
Q: Near which city did Julie Andrews sing ‘The Hills are alive to the sound of music’? A: SALZBURG
Q: Dr. Who’s companion as played by Billie Piper? A: Rose Tyler
Q: Which three Quaker families dominated early British manufacturing? A: Cadbury, Rowntree and Fry
Q: What was the top selling musical album of the 1960’s? A: The Sound of Music
Q: In the musical “The King and I”, who is or was “I”? A: Anna Leonowens
Q: Which major domestic trophy eluded Brian Clough as both player and manager? A: FA Cup
Q: What is the world’s largest natural harbour? A: Sydney Harbour
Q: Germans called it the Earth Berry, what do we call it? A: Strawberry
Q: In which castle did Edward II receive his final and fatal treatment? A: Berkley Castle
Q: Hephaestion was the very close, personal friend & companion of which King? A: Alexander the Great
Q: Which is the only state of the USA that is named after an American President? A: Washington
Q: The Ministry of Defence and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office? A: Whitehall
Q: Known as “la Superba”, which seaport is the capital of Liguria? A: Genoa
Q: What is the largest lake in Italy? A: Lake Garda
Q: Which strait separates Sicily from mainland Italy? A: Straits of Messina
Q: Corundum, widely used as an abrasive, is a crystalline form of an oxide of which metal? A: Aluminium
Q: Which singer was known as the Brazilian Bombshell? A: Carmen Miranda
Q: Which former Indian test batsman was nicknamed “Very Very Special”? A: V. V. S. Laxman
Q: Which cyclist is nicknamed “The Manx Missile”? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: What is the most commonly used alloy of copper and tin? A: BRONZE
Q: Which actress played Mrs June Monsoon in TV’s 'Absolutely Fabulous'? A: June WHITFIELD
Q: Which Benjamin Britten opera is based on a short novel by Herman Melville? A: BILLY BUDD
Q: Where in the world are the Pensacola Mountains? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: Sable is the correct name for which ‘colour’ in heraldry? A: BLACK
Q: In September 2006, which Welshman captained Europe's victorious Ryder Cup team? A: Ian WOOSNAM
Q: What constitutes the sole diet of the Osprey? A: FISH
Q: To which particular order of mammals do shrews and moles belong? A: INSECTIVORA
Q: Which breed of dog takes its name from the Russian word meaning “fast” or “swift”? A: BORZOI
Q: What is the technical term for a coral island consisting of a reef surrounding a lagoon? A: ATOLL
Q: Which mythical beast had the head of a man, body of a lion, and tail of a dragon or scorpion? A: MANTICORE
Q: Which year 2000 BBC TV reality show was set on the Scottish island of Taransay? A: CASTAWAY
Q: In which county is the Prime Minister’s country retreat Chequers? A: Buckinghamshire
Q: Barry George spent 8 years behind bars before being cleared in a retrial of the murder of whom? A: Jill Dando
Q: Which military force was founded by David Stirling? A: The SAS
Q: Which national bird of France can be seen on the shirt badges of that country’s Rugby players? A: Cockerel
Q: What is the collective name for the writers of the four gospels? A: Evangelists
Q: Which is the country of origin of Martha and the Muffins, Crash Test Dummies and Rush? A: Canada
Q: Who played bongos on the Shadows 1960 No.1 Apache? A: Cliff Richard
Q: Which Umberto Eco adaptation won him a British Academy Award? A: The Name of the Rose
Q: In which movie did Connery play a character called Marko Ramius? A: The Hunt for Red October
Q: Which footballer gained his 100 England cap in the friendly with Sweden? A: Steven Gerrard
Q: What is the strong material found in the cell walls of plants? A: Cellulose
Q: What have types called – continental, mountain and piedmont? A: Glaciers
Q: What word is used for the process of clarifying beer or wine? A: Fining
Q: In the 1920’s, which French designer created the ‘little black dress’? A: Coco Chanel
Q: What is the British monarch’s official Scottish residence? A: Holyrood House
Q: Who stars in the TV NHS black-comedy Getting On and has appeared on QI 29 times? A: Jo Brand
Q: By what name did the Germans call the Polish port of Gdansk? A: Danzig
Q: What name is given to creatures such as earthworms which are both male and female? A: Hermaphrodites
Q: Which Neopagan religion is often called ‘witchcraft’ or simply ‘the craft’? A: Wicca
Q: In a Roman house what activity took place in the triclinium? A: Dining
Q: What religion was accepted in the Roman Empire in AD313 by the Edict of Milan? A: Christianity
Q: Which term is used for a painting of Mary supporting the body of the dead Christ? A: Pieta
Q: What was invented and first described by Dr Ludovic Zamenhof in 1887? A: The language Esperanto
Q: Arthur Wynne of Liverpool invented which teaser in 1913? A: The Crossword Puzzle
Q: Which organisation refers to God as ‘The Great Architect of the Universe’? A: Freemasons
Q: In Sikhism men take the last name Singh – what name do women take? A: Kaur
Q: Which term is commonly used for members of the Unification Church? A: Moonies
Q: What was found in 1872 in the Atlantic with no-one on board but the cargo secure? A: Mary Celeste
Q: Which element is basic to all organic chemistry? A: Carbon
Q: Which Dickens novel features the Gordon Riots? A: Barnaby Rudge
Q: Who invented the lightning conductor after flying a kite in a storm? A: Benjamin Franklin
Q: Which 1973 thriller film features a malevolent dwarf in a red coat? A: Don’t Look Now
Q: In which county of Northern Ireland is the Giant’s Causeway? A: Antrim
Q: What famous bridge is considered part of the motorway the M180? A: Humber Bridge
Q: Which current BBC drama sees Anne Reid and Derek Jacobi rekindle an old romance? A: Last Tango in Halifax
Q: In which year did the world’s first ‘expo’ the Great Exhibition in London take place? A: 1851
Q: The Rembrandt House Museum can be visited in which city? A: Amsterdam
Q: Haneda Airport is one of the busiest in the world - which city does it serve? A: Tokyo
Q: Which Cairo square was the centre of the Egyptian revolution? A: Tahrir Square
Q: In which country did the protests break out at the Pearl Roundabout? A: Bahrain
Q: Hanged in 2010 Ali Hassan al-Majid had what nickname? A: Chemical Ali
Q: Anosmia is the loss of what? A: Sense of Smell
Q: Who played football for Argentina, Colombia and Spain? A: Alfredo Di Stefano
Q: Which world figure is married to quantum chemist Joachim Sauer? A: Angela Merkel
Q: Who thought Sebastian Moran ‘the second most dangerous man in London? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: Politics. At Westminster what is a ‘spad’? A: Special Adviser
Q: According to Voltaire who was shot ‘to encourage the others’? A: Admiral Byng
Q: Which ex DJ and current TV presenter fronted the show in the 1970s? A: Noel Edmonds
Q: Which Dickens hero went to Salem House School under headmaster Mr Creakle? A: David Copperfield
Q: What do ‘scandent’ plants do? A: Climb
Q: What was the first of the ten plagues of Egypt? A: The Plague of Blood
Q: Who made a Golden Calf from the people’s melted down jewellery? A: Aaron
Q: Who plays Miss Havisham in Mike Newell’s latest film adaptation of Great Expectations? A: Helena Bonham Carter
Q: Which boxer was The Bronx Bull? A: Jake la Motta
Q: Which Shakespeare play was set in Ephesus probably 14century? A: The Comedy of Errors
Q: Which boxer was The Brockton Blockbuster? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: Which Shakespeare play was set in Navarre probably in 14 century? A: Love’s Labour’s Lost
Q: The Thin White Duke ? A: David Bowie
Q: Which 19 century Prime Minister is the only PM to have served 4 terms ? A: William Gladstone
Q: Who won Best Actress Oscar for the film “The Coalminer’s Daughter “ ? A: Sissy Spacek
Q: Where is Europe’s largest open air theatre ? A: Scarborough
Q: What sort of creature is a Monarch ? A: Butterfly
Q: What is the largest specie of monkey ? A: Mandrill
Q: The author of “The Snowman” wrote which novel about a nuclear attack ? A: When The Wind Blows
Q: From which Shakespeare play does the phrase “Brave New World” come from ? A: The Tempest
Q: Which novel opens with the diary of Jonathan Harker ? A: Dracula
Q: What is the official language of Mozambique ? A: Portuguese
Q: What is the official language of Brunei ? A: Malay
Q: What is the official language of Cambodia ? A: Khmer
Q: Which female swimmer won two Gold and one Silver for GB ? A: Ellie Simmonds
Q: MASH, the character Frank Burns was replaced by which rather smug character ? A: Charles Winchester
Q: Which President abolished racial segregation in the Armed Forces & the Civil Service ? A: Harry Truman
Q: What is the nickname of Oscar Pistorious? A: Blade Runner
Q: London Olympics 200 metres, who did Pistorius accuse of cheating ? A: Alan Oliveira
Q: Whose real name was falsely stated to be Camille Javal ? A: Brigitte Bardot
Q: Which method of strangulation was once the official method of execution in Spain? A: Garotte
Q: Players shoot from a line called the ‘taw’ in what game? A: Marbles
Q: In which country have 9 missing episodes of Dr Who been discovered? A: Nigeria
Q: Which important person’s arrival at events is announced by playing Hail to the Chief? A: President of the USA
Q: Who pined away until only her voice remained because of unrequited love? A: Echo
Q: Which hit Croft comedy was criticised for homosexual and racial stereotyping? A: It Ain’t Half Hot Mum
Q: Which member of the German army was not so secretly in love with Rene in Allo Allo? A: Lieutenant Gruber
Q: Australian Capital Territory is entirely surrounded by what state? A: New South Wales
Q: Which playing card is ‘the curse of Scotland’? A: Nine of Diamonds
Q: Like Rome, which Yorkshire city is said to be built on seven hills? A: Sheffield
Q: Which language is said to have been the mother tongue of Jesus? A: Aramaic
Q: Which brewery produces Tiger Best Bitter? A: Everards
Q: Which spirit is present in a white lady cocktail? A: Gin
Q: Which type of road crossing allows bicycles to be ridden across? A: Toucan Crossing
Q: A sign with a red circle and red diagonals on a blue background means what? A: No Stopping
Q: Who was the Duke of Mantua’s jester? A: Rigoletto
Q: In which opera does Mimi fall for Rodolfo? A: La Boheme
Q: Who composed the opera Pelleas et Melisande? A: Debussy
Q: In which film did he play a DJ stalked by a crazed fan? A: Play Misty For Me
Q: In what county is Eton School? A: Berkshire
Q: From which country did the Duffel Coat originate? A: Belgium
Q: From 1978 to 1984, who were coached by a lady called Betty Callaway? A: Torvill & Dean
Q: In which film did Michael Caine say ‘not a lot of people know that’? A: Educating Rita
Q: What was created by the Limehouse Declaration of 1981? A: The SDP
Q: Which country is home to the majority of species of Bird of Paradise? A: New Guinea
Q: The New Zealand kea is known for attacking sheep – what kind of bird is it? A: Parrot
Q: Which best selling Norwegian author created the detective Harry Hole? A: Jo Nesbo
Q: Who has written several successful novels about DS Roy Grace of the Brighton force? A: Peter James
Q: Created by Leslie Thomas, Who was ‘The Last Detective’? A: Dangerous Davies
Q: In which stretch of water was HMS Amethyst fired on and detained in 1949? A: Yangtze River
Q: Which ship was hijacked by Palestinian terrorists in the Mediterranean in 1985? A: Achille Lauro
Q: What is the alternative name for Japanese green horseradish? A: Wasabi
Q: Which is the traditional English dish of pork trimmings and pig’s head? A: Brawn
Q: Which band’s 2007 reunion concert attracted 20 million ticket applications? A: Led Zeppelin
Q: Charles Moore is whose official 2013 biographer? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: John ‘Swift Nick’ Nevison found notoriety as what? A: Highwayman
Q: Which TV series is based on the ‘A Song of Ice and Fire’ book series? A: Game of Thrones
Q: The Golden Wattle is one of the national symbols of which country? A: Australia
Q: For what does the acronym CAD stand? A: Computer Aided Design
Q: Which tree is sometimes called the false plane? A: Sycamore
Q: Dying aged 28, who is considered the first great white jazz musician? A: Bix Beiderbecke
Q: What was the stage name of jazz pianist Ferdinand Joseph LaMothe? A: Jelly Roll Morton
Q: Who was the leader of the famous Creole Jazz Band, which first performed in 1922? A: King Oliver
Q: Which hunter is the arch-enemy of Bugs Bunny? A: Elmer Fudd
Q: Whose mother-in-law is Pearl Slaghoople? A: Fred Flintstone
Q: Which animal has species called Burchell’s and Grevy’s? A: Zebra
Q: Which is the only mammal able to kneel on all fours? A: Elephant
Q: What will be taking place in a town called Sochi in February? A: Winter Olympics
Q: Which unlikely country qualified for the 2015 Cricket World Cup Finals by beating Kenya? A: Afghanistan
Q: Which England football manager has the highest win percentage (67%) of all? A: Fabio Capello
Q: Who became chief editor of Cosmopolitan magazine in 1965? A: Helen Gurley Brown
Q: Which is the USA’s Hawkeye State? A: Iowa
Q: Which phrase used in English stems from the French meaning ‘already seen’? A: Deja Vu
Q: Which poet wrote The Pied Piper of Hamelin? A: Robert Browning
Q: Which is the USA’s Prairie State? A: Illinois
Q: In which Cypriot town will you find The Tomb of the Kings? A: Paphos
Q: Which planet in the solar system is closest in size to Earth? A: VENUS
Q: Which form of textile-making uses knots rather than weaving or knitting? A: MACRAME
Q: 1970’s TV. What was the forename of Reggie Perrin’s incompetent brother-in-law? A: JIMMY
Q: In which African country can you find Timbuktu? A: MALI
Q: In what year in the sixties did it take place? A: 1969
Q: What was the nationality of U Thant? A: BURMESE
Q: Who was the Secretary General from 1997 to 2006? A: KOFI ANNAN
Q: To within one year, in what year of this century was it badly damaged by fire? A: 2007
Q: She was built in 1869 to carry what cargo? A: TEA
Q: Who was the first person to be voted off this year’s ‘Strictly Come Dancing’? A: TONY JACKLIN
Q: What subject does Catherine Tate’s character teach in ‘Big School’? A: FRENCH
Q: Who wrote the 1924 poem ‘Leda and the Swan’? A: W. B. YEATS
Q: Who took over as Governor of the Bank of England on July 1st 2013? A: MARK CARNEY
Q: Who was the first female D.J. on Radio 1? A: ANNE NIGHTINGALE
Q: Give any year in which the second, longer-lasting Boer War was fought? A: 1899-1902
Q: What relation was King Stephen to William the Conqueror? A: GRANDSON
Q: Which socialist, federal republic existed from 1943 until 1992? A: YUGOSLAVIA
Q: Who got to no.1 with ‘The Sun Ain’t Gonna Shine Anymore’ in 1966? A: WALKER BROTHERS
Q: In which city will you find the Jacques Cartier Bridge? A: MONTREAL
Q: Mount Narodnaya is the highest peak in which mountain range? A: URALS
Q: Which Muslim free school in Derby was slated by Ofsted inspectors? A: AL-MADINAH
Q: Born in 1942, who had her greatest chart successes when a member of Blue Mink? A: MADELINE BELL
Q: A cordwainer used to make what sort of items? A: SHOES
Q: By what more familiar name is the company of Asquith and Dairies better known? A: ASDA
Q: In which country can you see the ruins of Carthage? A: TUNISIA
Q: Which P.R. first appeared in a 1902 book, in which he lost his jacket and shoes? A: PETER RABBIT
Q: Which P.R. was Mitt Romney’s running mate in the 2012 Presidential election? A: PAUL RYAN
Q: In 1967, who got to no. 2 in the charts with ‘Excerpt from a Teenage Opera’? A: KEITH WEST
Q: Who got to no. 6 with ‘Games People Play’ in 1969? A: JOE SOUTH
Q: In which sport can you hear the terms ‘edging’, ‘christies’ and ‘traversing’? A: SKIING
Q: What colour is the centre square (excluding the star)? A: PINK
Q: Who wrote the 1911 novel ‘The Secret Garden’? A: FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT
Q: Who was the gardener in the children’s tv series ‘The Magic Roundabout’? A: MR. McHENRY
Q: ‘I See You, Baby (Shakin’ that Ass)’ is associated with which make and model of car? A: RENAULT MEGANE
Q: This summer saw the appearance of which famous sportsman in Virgin Media ads? A: USAIN BOLT
Q: Whose catchphrases included ‘Hello, playmates’ and ‘Ay thang yaw’? A: ARTHUR ASKEY
Q: In a Beatles’ track, who is mean Mr. Mustard’s sister? A: POLYTHENE PAM
Q: Who was the last Conservative Chancellor before George Osborne? A: KENNETH CLARKE
Q: What is the county town of Angus? A: FORFAR
Q: Born in 1902, which Briton composed ‘Façade’ and ‘Belshazzar’s Feast’? A: Sir WILLIAM WALTON
Q: The village of Anatevka appears in which musical? A: FIDDLER ON THE ROOF
Q: Who is the mortal enemy of Captain Pugwash? A: CUT-THROAT JAKE
Q: Whose madness presumably came about as the result of inhaling mercury fumes? A: The MAD HATTER
Q: Which famous literary character said: “I am but mad north-northwest”? A: HAMLET
Q: In 1984, who became the first comedian to die during a live performance on tv? A: TOMMY COOPER
Q: What is the two-word name of Llandudno’s large limestone headland? A: GREAT ORME
Q: In legend, who or what were said to be incapable of crossing a stream or river? A: WITCHES
Q: In 1985, which funny man was the first UK citizen to make a mobile phone call? A: ERNIE WISE
Q: Which city is at the northern end of the Suez Canal? A: PORT SAID
Q: Which Hollywood star died of a drug overdose in June 1969, aged 47? A: JUDY GARLAND
Q: Who had a hit with ‘Raining in My Heart’ in 1959? A: BUDDY HOLLY
Q: What are fan-tan and faro? A: Card Games
Q: What is the Swahili word for journey? A: Safari
Q: A Cariocan is a native of which city? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: What state is governed by the Bishop of Urgell and the President of France? A: Andorra
Q: In the 1977 film Demon Seed what takes over the house in which Julie Christie is trapped? A: A Computer
Q: Which musical centres around the Kit Kat Club? A: Cabaret
Q: Which twice-made movie features the villain Max Cady? A: Cape Fear
Q: What colour is the flesh of a cantaloupe melon? A: Orange
Q: What is the Japanese dish of (usually) beef and vegetables in soy sauce? A: Sukiyaki
Q: What is the more commonly used name of cornichons? A: Gherkins
Q: Which group was formed by Billy Connolly and Gerry Rafferty? A: The Humblebums
Q: Hughie Jones, Cliff Hall, Mick Groves and Tony Davis comprised which top folk line up? A: The Spinners
Q: What happened to the dog on the ship Irish Rover? A: Drowned
Q: Kelly Hoppen and Piers Linney were the new faces in series 11 of what TV programme? A: Dragons Den
Q: What is the name of the part of a sundial that casts the shadow? A: Gnomon
Q: Where would you find the towns of Ramsey, Peel and Port Erin? A: Isle of Man
Q: In the bible who was Adam and Eve’s third son? A: Seth
Q: Where could you ride ‘The Smiler’ ‘Oblivion’ and ‘Nemesis’? A: Alton Towers
Q: One, two and three are Cardinal numbers – what are first, second and third? A: Ordinal Numbers
Q: Which cities name was one of the first few words spoken on the moon? A: Houston
Q: Andrea Begley of Northern Ireland was the winner of what TV competition last summer? A: The Voice
Q: Which Ukip politician was in trouble for talking about ‘bongo, bongo land’ in the summer? A: Godfrey Bloom
Q: The word ‘Shavian’ pertains to the work of which playwright? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Which poet and playwright’s mother wrote under the pen-name Speranza? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: Which US city has a name meaning ‘The Fields’? A: Las Vegas
Q: What was the original name of the Cape of Good Hope? A: Cape of Storms
Q: Which trees leaves are the symbol of the National Trust? A: Oak
Q: What is the first name of Bart’s best friend? A: Milhouse
Q: What is Springfield’s neighbouring rival town called? A: Shelbyville
Q: The famous French wine Chablis is made mainly from which grape variety? A: Chardonnay
Q: Chianti wine comes from which region of Italy? A: Tuscany
Q: Which Persian king invaded Greece to punish Athens? A: Darius
Q: The story of a man who was too proud to run – (1952)? A: High Noon
Q: By what name was the notorious organisation run by the Kray twins known? A: The Firm
Q: Which Bond girl married a Beatle? A: Barbara Bach
Q: The Hungarian national dish goulash is chiefly flavoured with which spice? A: Paprika
Q: Truva in Turkey is the site of which ancient city? A: Troy
Q: The American woodchuck or whistle-pigis also known by what name? A: Groundhog
Q: Which South American rodent yields what is said to be the most expensive fur? A: Chinchilla
Q: What is chased downhill in an annual race by villagers of Brockworth in Gloucester? A: A Cheese
Q: What was the band Madness’s only UK No.1? A: House of Fun
Q: In Heraldry what term describes a figure lying with head erect? A: Couchant
Q: Which mythical hero had a horse called Xanthus? A: Achilles
Q: In Heraldry what term describes a figure walking? A: Passant
Q: A poem of 1735 saw the origin of which devoted couple? A: Darby and Joan
Q: If a doctor gave you the Ishihara Test for what condition would he be testing you? A: Colour Blindness
Q: When the original Top Twenty was compiled it wasn’t for records – what was it for? A: Sheet Music
Q: Which fictional detective has a name that is also a type of picture puzzle? A: Rebus
Q: An ovoid object is shaped like …what? A: An Egg
Q: Who fell in love with Heloise the beautiful 17-year-old daughter of Canon Fulbert? A: Peter Abelard
Q: The coordinate Y is the ordinate – what do we call the coordinate X? A: Abscissa
Q: What do we call a quadrilateral with one pair of sides parallel? A: Trapezium
Q: Which famous play takes place at Monkswell Manor? A: The Mousetrap
Q: Which BBC2 drama series featured the Birmingham criminal gang scene of the 1920s? A: Peaky Blinders
Q: Which Indian dish gets its name from the Hindu word for ‘bucket’? A: Balti
Q: What is the country of origin of the yeastless beer called ‘faro’? A: Belgium
Q: Which country declared war on Britain in 1812? A: U S A
Q: Which group of people were freed from discrimination by a Relief Act in 1829? A: Roman Catholics
Q: Which English club has won the European Cup more times than its own League Title? A: Nottingham Forest
Q: Which club had the 1990’s anthem ‘Marching On Together’? A: Leeds Utd
Q: What is the common name of Hansen’s Disease? A: Leprosy
Q: Which creature has varieties called Chinook, Chum, Coho, Sockeye and Steelhead? A: Salmon
Q: In cinema history which sport has been the subject of most films? A: Boxing
Q: Where in the British Isles is Ronaldsway Airport? A: Isle of Man
Q: Which monarch moved the royal residence from St James Palace to Buckingham Palace? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which US Trade Union boss vanished in Bloomfield, Michigan in July, 1975? A: Jimmy Hoffa
Q: On which island is Adam’s Peak? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Which mountain is also known as Mont Cervin? A: The Matterhorn
Q: Who made a risqué joke about Hugo Boss and the Nazis at the GQ Magazine awards? A: Russell Brand
Q: Sir John Houblon was the first Governor of what? A: Bank of England
Q: Which crime used to be called ‘lese-majeste’ meaning injured majesty in French? A: Treason
Q: Who composed the Scottish and Italian Symphonies? A: Mendelssohn
Q: We call it a spanner – what do Americans call it? A: Wrench
Q: What was founded by Allen Lane in 1935? A: Penguin Books
Q: Which new film is considered by many critics to be Woody Allen’s best for 20 years? A: Blue Jasmine
Q: The Brazilian Wandering variety is the most poisonous in the world …….what? A: Spider
Q: Only two wild cats live wild in Europe – the wild cat itself is one – what is the other? A: Lynx
Q: What kind of creature is an addax? A: Antelope
Q: Fungi do not have seeds – what do they have? A: Spores
Q: Which term describes any two colours which together produce white light? A: Complementary
Q: Sterling silver contains 92.5 parts silver and 7.5 parts ……what? A: Copper
Q: Which tourist resort of Croatia was formerly known as Ragusa? A: Dubrovnik
Q: Which European capital is situated at the point where Lake Malar joins the Baltic Sea? A: Stockholm
Q: Which mountain range forms the backbone of Italy? A: Apennines
Q: What are the invisible lines that supposedly link ancient magical sites? A: Ley Lines
Q: Which relative of the giraffe has zebra-like stripes? A: Okapi
Q: What collective name is given to the children of Gaia and Uranus? A: The Titans
Q: Which US city filed for bankruptcy in July? A: Detroit
Q: Rachel Verinder’s diamond gives what book its title? A: The Moonstone
Q: Polydactylism is distinguished by extra what? A: Fingers or Toes
Q: Who is to replace Jessie J in the 2014 series of The Voice? A: Kylie Minogue
Q: Who won the 2013 series of TV’s Celebrity Masterchef? A: Ade Edmondson
Q: Who announced his ‘Great Leap Forward’ in 1958? A: Mao Tse Tung
Q: If a dessert is served ‘a la mode’ what is it served with? A: Ice Cream
Q: From which cereal is polenta now mainly made? A: Maize
Q: What is the chief ingredient of passata? A: Tomatoes
Q: In Hockney’s Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy – who or what is Percy? A: Cat
Q: What name is given to a depiction of Mary holding the dead body of Christ? A: Pieta
Q: In which US state is Princeton University? A: New Jersey
Q: Which instrument was played by jazz artist Benny Goodman? A: Clarinet
Q: If you were using a pull-through what would you be cleaning? A: A Rifle
Q: What seven-letter word means “A Russian tea urn”? A: samovar
Q: Which of Beethoven’s symphonies was nicknamed ‘The Eroica’? A: Third
Q: Which James Bond villain owns the island of Crab Key? A: Dr. No
Q: In which fictional county is ‘The Archers’ set? A: Borsetshire
Q: Which British dramatist wrote the 1945 play ‘An Inspector Calls’? A: J. B. Priestley
Q: ‘Catriona’, also known as ‘David Balfour’, was the sequel to which novel? A: Kidnapped
Q: To within a year either way, in what year did Victoria’s husband Prince Albert die? A: 1861
Q: In 2012, Luis Suarez twice scored hat-tricks against which Premiership side? A: Norwich City
Q: It is generally agreed that the term ‘hat-trick’ was first used in 1858, in which sport? A: cricket
Q: In 2000 to 2002, which Grand Prix team won a hat-trick of constructors’ titles? A: Ferrari
Q: When the ads. finished, keeper Molly Badham welcomed them back to which zoo? A: Twycross
Q: What was the first name of Mark Knopfler’s brother in Dire Straits? A: David
Q: Craig and Charlie Reid got together to form which band in 1983? A: The Proclaimers
Q: The falcon’s dive from a height onto its prey is known as a what? A: stoop
Q: What is a ‘tercel’ (‘tiercel’ in the USA)? A: male falcon
Q: Who wrote the 1946 work ‘The Winslow Boy’? A: Terence Rattigan
Q: Apart from her husband, who is the best friend of Elizabeth Jean Rubble? A: Wilma Flintstone
Q: Which 2007 Rihanna song topped the charts in fifteen countries? A: Umbrella
Q: What does the word ‘antediluvian’ mean, literally? A: Before the flood
Q: In the Sherlock Holmes story, what was ‘The Speckled Band’? A: snake
Q: What is the surname of Aleksandr, the chief meerkat in the comparethemarket.com ads? A: Orlov
Q: What is the total if you add the number shirts of the two flankers in rugby union? A: thirteen
Q: Rugby league. Which European Super League team are known as the ‘Giants’? A: Huddersfield
Q: Mt. Egmont, which also goes by another name, can be found in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Which of the four provinces of Ireland is the most populous? A: Leinster
Q: Which straits separate Tierra del Fuego from mainland South America? A: Magellan
Q: In the heroic poem ‘The Song of Roland’, which ‘O’ is Roland’s best friend? A: Oliver
Q: What is the name of Andy Capp’s best friend? A: Chalkie White
Q: Henry Morton Stanley was born in which country? A: Wales
Q: Christopher Columbus was born in 1451 in which city and former Republic? A: Genoa
Q: What one word is the Latin for ‘for all’? A: omnibus
Q: What Latin phrase refers to a vital condition, something absolutely necessary? A: sine qua non
Q: What is the more common name given to the illness parotitis? A: mumps
Q: Including the positives and negatives, there are eight blood groups. Which is the rarest? A: AB negative
Q: In the TV show ‘Mrs. Brown’s Boys’, what is Mrs. Brown’s first name? A: Agnes
Q: Who is the first female in line of succession to the British throne? A: Princess Beatrice
Q: In which year did Maggie Thatcher become Prime Minister? A: 1979
Q: What is the real surname of Marty and Kim Wilde? A: Smith
Q: What was the surname of the President of Egypt at the time? A: Nasser
Q: Degas had two favourite topics for his paintings, ballet and what else? A: horse racing
Q: Which US golfer was known as ‘Long John’ for his driving distance off the tee? A: John Daly
Q: In 1996, which duo got to no.11 in the UK pop charts with ‘Ocean Drive’? A: Lighthouse Family
Q: Nike was a Greek goddess who personified what? A: victory
Q: A young man and woman sitting back-to-back is the logo of which company? A: Kappa
Q: Owned by J.D. Sports, which small British firm now provides the kit for the English RFU? A: Canterbury
Q: Which of the Muses was responsible for dance? A: Terpsichore
Q: Born in 1911, whose real name was Virginia McMath? A: Ginger Rogers
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the Argentinian rugby union team? A: puma
Q: The book and the musical ‘Phantom of the Opera’ are set in which city? A: Paris
Q: Which sign of the zodiac immediately follows Cancer? A: Leo
Q: What was Eva Peron’s maiden name? A: Duarte
Q: John Gilbert, Charles Buchel, Maurycy Gottlieb and others have all painted whom? A: Shylock
Q: Who linked ‘Only When I Laugh’ and ‘The Beiderbecke Affair’? A: James Bolam
Q: Who won the Best Actor Oscar in 1997 for his part in ‘Shine’? A: Geoffrey Rush
Q: What is the name of the dog in the Secret Seven series of books? A: Scamper
Q: Which element is third in the periodic table of the elements? A: lithium
Q: Who wanted a lever that was long enough, in order to move the world? A: Archimedes
Q: Where can you find the stapedius, the smallest muscle in the human body? A: ear
Q: What sort of creature is a ‘taipan’? A: snake
Q: In geometry, what word is used for a line that touches a circle but does not cut it? A: tangent
Q: ‘On Stranger Tides’ is the fourth film in which series? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: Dr Evil is the arch-enemy of which spoof film title character hero? A: Austin Powers
Q: To which land did Cain go after killing Abel? A: The Land of Nod
Q: Sir John Oldcastle is said to be the model for which Shakespeare character? A: Falstaff
Q: A ‘Weegie’ originates from which British city? A: Glasgow
Q: The tarboosh is another name for which hat? A: Fez
Q: Which children’s books character is known as ‘Oui Oui’ in France? A: Noddy
Q: Which famous World War II British invention had the codename ‘Upkeep’? A: Bouncing Bomb
Q: What term is used for the appliance of gold or silver to a surface in a fine pattern? A: Filigree
Q: What was the predominant decorative style of the 1920s and 30s? A: Art Deco
Q: Isobel Archer is the title character in which classic novel? A: Portrait of a Lady
Q: Which anti-hero features in the Mervyn Peake novels Titus Groan and Gormenghast? A: Steerpike
Q: What is the most common type of rock formed from lava flows? A: Basalt
Q: Which flat-topped upland has a name which is Spanish for table? A: Mesa
Q: Who did Frank Bruno beat to win the WBC World Title in 1995? A: Oliver McCall
Q: Who did England beat by two runs in a 2005 Edgbaston Test Match? A: Australia
Q: Which spice should be included in a bread sauce recipe? A: Cloves
Q: In the game of Risk – what colour on the board is Europe? A: Blue
Q: Which flag consists of a blue rectangle with a white rectangle in the centre? A: The Blue Peter
Q: Bernard Hinault was the last Frenchman to do what? A: Win the Tour de France
Q: Who did Zeus have chained to a rock for giving fire to the human race? A: Prometheus
Q: Which country’s national anthem is The Soldier’s Song? A: Republic of Ireland
Q: Which 1932 novel is the most famous work of writer Stella Gibbons? A: Cold Comfort Farm
Q: What is a valetudinarian constantly worried about? A: His or Her Health
Q: What is the divine nickname for the elusive Higgs boson? A: The God Particle
Q: What was the sequel to the sitcom Are You Being Served? A: Grace and Favour
Q: ‘I must get a little hand put on this watch’ – heard regularly in which sitcom? A: Nearest and Dearest
Q: Who composed The Resurrection Symphony and The Symphony of a Thousand? A: Mahler
Q: Which opera is set aboard HMS Indomitable? A: Billy Budd
Q: What kind of flower is a Lady’s Slipper? A: Orchid
Q: What is the alternative name for the larkspur? A: Delphinium
Q: What name is given to the dried bummalo fish when crumbled over Indian cuisine? A: Bombay Duck
Q: Which county was absorbed into Cambridgeshire in 1974? A: Huntingdonshire
Q: Which title was held by Queen Victoria’s father? A: Duke of Kent
Q: Which German word means low-brow, cheesy, mass-produced art in poor taste? A: Kitsch
Q: Which French phrase translates as ‘blow of mercy’? A: Coup de Grace
Q: Which dynastic honour group is restricted to 24 members at any given time? A: Order of Merit
Q: Under which Prime Minister were life peerages instituted? A: Harold Macmillan
Q: Which is the highest order of chivalry in England? A: Order of the Garter
Q: Which element Atomic Number 19 was originally called Kalium? A: Potassium
Q: Who wrote The Tracks of My Tears and My Guy? A: Smokey Robinson
Q: Who made the original recording of What Becomes of the Brokenhearted? A: Jimmy Ruffin
Q: Levi Stubbs was lead singer with which act? A: Four Tops
Q: Who wrote the play Equus? A: Peter Schaffer
Q: Which is the most northerly of the Met Office shipping forecast areas? A: South-East Iceland
Q: Isohels are lines on a map linking places of equal ……….what? A: Sunshine
Q: Which Irish province includes the counties of Cork, Kerry and Limerick? A: Munster
Q: What is the administrative HQ of the Welsh region of Ceredigion? A: Aberystwyth
Q: Which body of water separates mainland Scotland and the Orkneys? A: Pentland Firth
Q: Who wrote The Leatherstocking Tales? A: James Fenimore Cooper
Q: Which institution was abolished as ‘useless and dangerous’ in 1649? A: House of Lords
Q: Which educational movement was initiated by Robert Raikes in 1780? A: Sunday Schools
Q: In Greek myth who won the beauty contest judged by Paris? A: Aphrodite
Q: In which cult 1960s TV series did villagers read the Tally Ho newspaper? A: The Prisoner
Q: The A15 crosses which major bridge? A: Humber Bridge
Q: The Golden Spurtle is awarded for champion makers of what? A: Porridge
Q: The pagan festival Samhain is now better known as what? A: Halloween
Q: Muslims traditionally break the fast of Ramadan by eating which fruit? A: Dates
Q: Which poet had a dog called Boatswain? A: Lord Byron
Q: What was the name of the dog who accompanied the Three Men In A Boat? A: Montmorency
Q: Which series saw Ben Wishaw as a gay man whose new partner is murdered? A: London Spy
Q: Who was killed when Gloria Jones’ mini left the road and hit a tree in 1977? A: Marc Bolan
Q: What kind of clothing is a toque? A: Hat
Q: Which anti-Catholic insurgencies took place in London in 1780? A: The Gordon Riots
Q: In 1797 what occurred at The Nore and Spithead? A: Naval Mutinies
Q: Which economic law says ‘Bad money drives out good’? A: Gresham’s Law
Q: Melbourne, Australia stands on which river? A: Yarra
Q: What is the appropriate gift for a 15 Wedding Anniversary? A: Crystal
Q: Which deceased comedian’s real name was Maurice Cole? A: Kenny Everett
Q: Adelaide, Australia stands on which river? A: Torrens
Q: Timbrology was an old name for what? A: Stamp Collecting
Q: Which common bird is also called the dunnock? A: Hedge Sparrow
Q: What is the capital of the Dominican Republic? A: Santo Domingo
Q: What word can precede ‘beer’, ‘bread’, and ‘nut’ to make well-known terms? A: GINGER
Q: What herb, mentioned by Ophelia in ‘Hamlet’, is often used to flavour roast lamb? A: ROSEMARY
Q: What is the Italian for ‘None shall sleep’? A: NESSUN DORMA
Q: ‘I Predict a Riot’ (2004) and ‘Never Miss a Beat’ (2008) were Top 10 hits for whom? A: KAISER CHIEFS
Q: What is the surname of the four sisters in ‘Little Women’ (1868-9)? A: MARCH
Q: In the hashtag ‘pogdogs’, who is ‘pog’? A: PAUL O’GRADY
Q: What do people who are viticulturists spend much of their time doing? A: GROWING GRAPES
Q: Who wrote the original poem in the second half of the 19th century? A: WALT WHITMAN
Q: He wrote the poem after whose death? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: When TNT is expanded into the full word, how many letters does it contain? A: FIFTEEN
Q: What is the surname of Jacques Alexandre Cesar, after whom a scientific law is named? A: CHARLES
Q: What were the Goons doing for Christmas in 1956? A: WALKING BACKWARDS
Q: What was the name of Michael Bentine’s Bafta-winning tv show that ran from 1960-64? A: IT’S A SQUARE WORLD
Q: What is the English for ‘Duirt me leat go raibh me breoite’? A: I TOLD YOU I WAS ILL
Q: Who wrote the 1996 novel ‘The Beach’? A: ALEX GARLAND
Q: In 1979, which seaside town became the first in Britain to set up a nudist beach? A: BRIGHTON
Q: Bewdley, Tenbury Wells, and Droitwich Spa are all towns in which English county? A: WORCESTERSHIRE
Q: In 1952, who was knocked down for the first time in his career by Jersey Joe Walcott? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: Which famous literary character does governess Mary Morstan marry in 1889? (She is A: DR. WATSON
Q: What is the cube root of one-eighth? A: HALF
Q: Which actor in silent films, 1887-1933, had the first names Roscoe Conkling? A: FATTY ARBUCKLE
Q: Who wrote the 1900 novel ‘The Wonderful Wizard of Oz’? A: FRANK L. BAUM
Q: What is the name of the road that the horses cross in the English Grand National? A: MELLING Road
Q: In British Bingo, which number ball has the nickname ‘Dancing Queen’? A: 17
Q: Where is David Cameron’s Oxfordshire constituency? A: WITNEY
Q: Who is the long-time judo sparring partner of Arkady Rotenberg? A: Vladimir PUTIN
Q: What is the singular form of the word ‘graffiti’? A: GRAFFITO
Q: To within a year either way, when did the R101 crash in France, with the loss of 48 lives? A: 1930
Q: According to many sources, Aeschylus was killed by what falling from the sky and landing on his head? A: TORTOISE
Q: Laura Massaro and Nick Matthew are 2016 British champions at which sport? A: SQUASH
Q: Which brand of whisky has an image of Lagopus lagopus scotica on the label? A: FAMOUS GROUSE
Q: Where in the human body would you find the mitral valve? A: HEART
Q: What plain, woven cloth gets its name from a port in north-east India? A: CALICO
Q: Which saint is frequently depicted as being killed by arrows? A: SEBASTIAN
Q: Who created the literary character Major-General Sir Richard Hannay? A: JOHN BUCHAN
Q: Peter Murrell is the husband of which politician? A: NICOLA STURGEON
Q: Scurvy is caused by a deficiency of which vitamin? A: C
Q: Opera. Which Benjamin Britten opera is set in a fictional fishing village? A: PETER GRIMES
Q: In ‘Monopoly’, what is the first non-property square after ‘Go’? A: COMMUNITY CHEST
Q: Baron Bomburst is a character in which British family film? A: CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG
Q: In which pantomime does the character Baron Hardup appear? A: CINDERELLA
Q: On which 2014 Richard Linklater film did production begin in 2002, but not end until 2014? A: BOYHOOD
Q: Which 1950 film stars Bette Davis as Margo Channing, an aging Broadway star? A: ALL ABOUT EVE
Q: Which actress was forced to leave ‘Coronation Street’ in 2007 because of poor health? A: LIZ DAWN
Q: What was the real name of Herman, from the pop group Herman’s Hermits? A: PETER NOONE
Q: Two of the four blood groups are ‘A’ and ‘B’. What are the other two? A: AB and O
Q: ‘The Last King of Scotland’ (2006) was set in which country? A: UGANDA
Q: What is the capital of Paraguay? A: ASUNCION
Q: Who was Chair of the Conservative Party from 2010 until 2012? A: BARONESS WARSI
Q: What was the birth name of the woman who married Laurence Olivier in 1961? A: JOAN PLOWRIGHT
Q: Born in Bolton in 1982, Jenny Ryan is the latest person to join which ITV programme? A: THE CHASE
Q: Which drug derives its name from the Greek god of dreams? A: MORPHINE
Q: Who preceded General Cornwallis as Governor-General of India? A: WARREN HASTINGS
Q: Who was the ecclesiastical figure who founded Winchester College in 1382? A: WILLIAM OF WYKEHAM
Q: In rugby union, the hooker wears no.2. What number is worn in rugby league? A: NINE
Q: For religious people, the shamrock is said to be a metaphor for what? A: HOLY TRINITY
Q: Born in 1882, which famous Irishman left Sinn Fein in 1926, and founded Fianna Fail? A: Eamon DE VALERA
Q: Where will you find the communities of Peel, Port St. Mary, Castletown and Ballabeg? A: ISLE OF MAN
Q: What is rugby union’s equivalent of a ‘fair catch’ in American football? A: A MARK
Q: Which ‘jukebox’ musical ran at London’s Prince of Wales Theatre from 2004 until 2012? A: MAMMA MIA
Q: Florence, Pegasus, Symphony and Alice are all varieties of which fruit? A: STRAWBERRY
Q: The uninhabited Bouvet Island in the South Atlantic is a dependency of what country? A: NORWAY
Q: Liberty Island in New York harbour was formerly known as what? A: Bedloe’s Island
Q: What method of demise is known medically as exsanguination? A: Bleeding to Death
Q: Stranger’s Gate is an entrance to which world-famous park? A: Central Park New York
Q: What does the Latin phrase ‘lapsus linguae’ mean in English? A: Slip of the tongue
Q: What is the name of the long loose cloak worn by Arab men? A: Burnoose
Q: Which forest features in Shakespeare’s As You Like It? A: Forest of Arden
Q: A babirusa is a wild variety of which creature? A: Pig
Q: Which form of Buddhism is prevalent in Japan? A: Zen
Q: What word is used by Christians for the suffering and death of Jesus? A: Passion
Q: To where was Archbishop Makarios exiled by the British in the mid 50s? A: The Seychelles
Q: Who did Jacques Santer replace as President of the European Commission in 1995? A: Jacques Delor
Q: For which county side does record-breaking batsman Ben Stokes play? A: Durham
Q: Which rugby union side play home games at Kingsholm? A: Gloucester
Q: Who is killed by Kylo Ren in a recently released movie? A: Han Solo
Q: Who plays the title role in the film The Lady In The Van? A: Maggie Smith
Q: What unofficial title was given to George Hudson MP in 1844? A: The Railway King
Q: Which synth pop trio topped the UK singles chart in 2015 with the song ‘King’? A: Years and Years
Q: Which ancient story-teller was sentenced to death and thrown off a cliff? A: Aesop
Q: Which adventurer’s wife kept his head in a velvet bag until she died? A: Walter Raleigh
Q: Torre Pendente is the local name for what world-famous visitor attraction? A: Leaning Tower of Pisa
Q: What was the last Beatles album to be recorded before the band split up? A: Abbey Road
Q: In the human body what is the common name for the third molar teeth? A: Wisdom Teeth
Q: Who is the French equivalent of our Britannia? A: Marianne
Q: What is the correct name for an ant’s nest? A: Formicary
Q: The word tintinnabular relates to the sound of what? A: Bells
Q: Mass multiplied by velocity gives what? A: Momentum
Q: What is the more common name of methanoic acid? A: Formic Acid
Q: Which principle of physics is used in police speed traps? A: Doppler Effect
Q: Cape St Vincent is the most southwestern point of which country? A: Portugal
Q: Which mountain range stretches from the Black Sea to the Caspian Sea? A: Caucasus
Q: Which is the main island of the Greek group the Dodecanese? A: Rhodes
Q: In which city were all but six French kings crowned? A: Rheims
Q: Chaim Weizmann was the first president of which country? A: Israel
Q: What word is used for the divination of dreams? A: Oneiromancy
Q: Who wrote The Interpretation of Dreams in 1899? A: Sigmund Freud
Q: In wine production what is the syrah grape almost invariably called in Australia? A: Shiraz
Q: Which spirit is used in a Sex On The Beach cocktail? A: Vodka
Q: The tune Duelling Banjos featured in which 1972 film? A: Deliverance
Q: What was Casanova’s occupation at the time of is death? A: Librarian
Q: Which fabric derives its name from a Syrian city? A: Damask
Q: Which god rode an eight-legged horse called Sleipnir? A: Odin
Q: Who appeared for 30 years with the jazz outfit John Chilton’s Feetwarmers? A: George Melly
Q: What is the ancient Hebrew ceremonial wind instrument made from a ram’s horn? A: Shofar
Q: Which instrument consists of hanging metal bars which are struck by a hammer? A: Glockenspiel
Q: In the Bible what instrument did David play? A: Harp
Q: Who took the Leonard Cohen song Hallelujah to No.1 in 2008? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Who is lead singer with The Killers? A: Brandon Flowers
Q: Which TV detective was assisted by Inspector Mike Burden? A: Inspector Wexford
Q: Who played detectives Charley Farley and Piggy Malone? A: The Two Ronnies
Q: Paul Cezanne, Paul Gaugin and Vincent van Gogh belonged to which school of painting? A: Post-Impressionists
Q: Which family was portrayed as the Magi in Botticelli’s Adoration of the Magi? A: Medici
Q: Who painted The Rokeby Venus? A: Velasquez
Q: Which global company owes everything to an invention by Dr John S Pemberton? A: Coca Cola
Q: Clints and grikes are found in formations of which rock? A: Limestone
Q: What colour is the mineral malachite? A: Green
Q: What do we call the layer of the Earth between its crust and its core? A: Mantle
Q: Shelley’s Adonias is an elegy on the death of which poet? A: Keats
Q: Wordsworth, Coleridge – who was the third of the Lake Poets? A: Southey
Q: With which profession does one associate the Stanislawski Method? A: Acting
Q: In a top ten hit for Dusty Springfield who was Billy Ray? A: The Son of a Preacher Man
Q: What is the family name of the ruling dynasty of Monaco? A: Grimaldi
Q: What instruction to a printer means ‘let the original stand’? A: Stet
Q: What breed of dog’s evidence is admissible in an American court? A: Bloodhound
Q: What word is used for the tail of a rabbit, hare or deer? A: Scut
Q: Which TV programme featured the Olympic Hide and Seek Final? A: Monty Python’s Flying Circus
Q: Which capital was burned by the British in 1814? A: Washington
Q: Which British commander was killed at Corunna in 1808? A: Sir John Moore
Q: Australia has two flightless birds – the emu and which other? A: Cassowary
Q: A shubunkin is a variety of what kind of fish? A: Goldfish
Q: Which of the Greek islands is closest to the Albanian coast? A: Corfu
Q: What do the Germans call Donau? A: The River Danube
Q: In 1961 young Terry Brooks made his debut as the first …….what? A: Milky Bar Kid
Q: Who was title character Sarah Woodruff? A: The French Lieutenant’s
Q: Which title character does John Ridd fall head over heels for? A: Lorna Doone
Q: Which prolific author’s first novel Jigsaw was published in 1922? A: Barbara Cartland
Q: The Longmuir brothers were in which teeny-bop group? A: Bay City Rollers
Q: In which country was the late actor Leo McKern born? A: Australia
Q: Who composed the symphonic poem Scheherezade? A: Rimsky-Korsakov
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of Spain? A: St James
Q: In which country was the late actor Sid James born? A: South Africa
Q: Who composed the work Tales From the Vienna Woods? A: Johann Strauss
Q: Found in the body what substance is cerumen? A: Ear Wax
Q: In American criminal slang what is a ‘shamus’? A: Private Detective
Q: What is the missing first word in the title of Rose Macauley's novel '… By An Idiot'? A: Told
Q: A poker player throwing in his cards says what? A: Fold
Q: What does the prefix 'cry' mean in words such as cryogenics? A: Cold
Q: Who began her show-business career playing Sophie Tuckshop in ITMA on the wireless? A: Hattie Jacques
Q: Who played the fairy godmother in Adam Ant's 'Prince Charming' video? A: Diana Dors
Q: Ruth Jones played which part in 'Gavin and Stacey' on television? A: Nessa Jenkins
Q: What is London's largest theatre, if its name has not already given it away? A: Coliseum
Q: Which Yorkshire company introduced the crinkle cut crisp in 1956? A: Seabrook
Q: Pepsico dropped the Smith's Crisps brand in favour of which other? A: Walker's
Q: Which gas is in a green fire extinguisher? A: Halon
Q: The actor David Garrick was mentored by which schoolmaster from Lichfield? A: Samuel Johnson
Q: Oscar Hammerstein mentored which librettist, who wrote the lyrics to 'West Side Story'? A: Stephen Sondheim
Q: Wulfrunians are residents of which English city? A: Wolverhampton
Q: The Campsie Fells lie to the north of which Scottish city? A: Glasgow
Q: Which city would have been renamed 'Germania' if the Nazis had won World War 2? A: Berlin
Q: Which European capital lies on the River Senne? A: Brussels
Q: Which Royal Naval vessel was the subject of the Yangtze Incident in 1949? A: HMS Amethyst
Q: In 1960 the first laser used which crystal as its lens, perhaps after 40 years of trying? A: Ruby
Q: Which Victorian Field Marshall's name has become a by-word for efficiency? A: Sir Garnet Wolseley
Q: Which ITV company made the World In Action current affairs programme? A: Granada
Q: What type of clamp would an engineer use to hold an object with radial symmetry? A: Chuck
Q: In 1901 who became the last non-league winners of the FA Cup? A: Tottenham Hotspur
Q: Crombie overcoats and Harrington jackets clad which youth movement? A: Skinheads
Q: Mod girls wore what type of quilted jacket on their partners' scooters? A: Parka
Q: 'The Professor' was a novel by which of the Bronte sisters? A: Charlotte
Q: Arthur Conan Doyle sent who to the Lost World? A: Challenger
Q: Professor Otto Lidenbrock followed Arne Saknussemm where? A: Centre of the Earth
Q: What is the total if you add the regnal numbers of our last three kings? A: 19
Q: What is the address of the White House in Washington DC? A: 1600 Pennsylvania Ave
Q: In 1995 the Labour Party abandoned which part of its constitution? A: Clause IV
Q: Which amendment to the US constitution protects against self-incrimination? A: Fifth
Q: Rolo, Aero, Kit Kat, and Roses were all introduced in which decade? A: 1930s
Q: A statue of which nurse stands on the north-east corner of Trafalgar Square? A: Edith Cavell
Q: The title First Level Nurse replaced Registered General Nurse, which replaced what? A: State Registered Nurse
Q: In 1700 Solomon de Medina was the first from which religion to receive a knighthood? A: Judaism
Q: In 1917, which Queen received the first Damehood, the female equivalent of a knighthood? A: Mary
Q: Which language gave us the word 'Germanic'? A: Latin
Q: In 1963 President Kennedy was shot in which square in Dallas? A: Dealey Plaza
Q: In 1901 Queen Victoria died in which building on the Isle of Wight? A: Osborne House
Q: 'Elizabethan Serenade' was a pop hit for Boris Gardiner under what title? A: Elizabethan Reggae
Q: Which Scottish village appears for only one day every one hundred years? A: Brigadoon
Q: What is the most northerly railway station on the Derwent Valley Line? A: Matlock
Q: An aerodrome needs what to become an airport? A: Customs
Q: Which volcano lies between Italy and Sicily? A: Stromboli
Q: The Roman Via Appia ends in which modern coastal city? A: Brindisi
Q: Lord Kitchener drowned when which ship hit a mine in 1916? A: HMS Hampshire
Q: Selim Shah found favour with Mrs Thatcher when he launched which tabloid in 1986? A: Today
Q: Robert Maxwell founded which weekly newspaper in 1990? A: The European
Q: Who were Bobby 'Boris' Pickett's backing group on his hit 'Monster Mash'? A: Crypt-Kickers
Q: Alban Berg's opera 'Lulu' ends with the appearance of which murderer? A: Jack The Ripper
Q: Which name from Greek mythology is given to a pimp? A: Pandar
Q: In July 1963 which osteopath was convicted of living off immoral earnings? A: Stephen Ward
Q: Where in Paris would you find the French foreign ministry? A: Quai D'Orsay
Q: The word 'refugee' first described which protestants fleeing from France to England? A: Huguenots
Q: In which eastern county is Holme Fen, the lowest point in the UK? A: Cambridgeshire
Q: Paektu Mountain is the highest point on which Asian peninsula? A: Korea
Q: Which is both the highest capital city in Europe and one of its smallest? A: Andorra La Vella
Q: In 1957 Pete Murray invited you to jive on what? A: 6-5 Special
Q: Joe E Ross and Fred Gwynne starred in which comedy police series on TV? A: Car 54
Q: Who was Prime Minister during the Queen's Silver Jubilee celebrations? A: Callaghan
Q: Who was Prime Minister during Queen Victoria's Golden Jubilee celebrations? A: Salisbury
Q: Which of the Balearic Islands has a name that means 'biggest'? A: Majorca
Q: Which revealing item of clothing was invented by Louis Reard in 1946? A: Bikini
Q: Which animal is the symbol of the Rastafarian religion? A: Lion
Q: In Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein what is Frankenstein’s first name? A: Victor
Q: Which rebel was stabbed to death by the Lord Mayor of London in 1381? A: Wat Tyler
Q: Kalamata is a variety of which food item? A: Olive
Q: Which kiddies dolls were created by American art student Xavier Roberts in 1978? A: Cabbage Patch Kids
Q: Who is the hero of the novels Greenmantle and Mr Standfast? A: Richard Hannay
Q: Published in 1960, Who wrote the novel A Kind of Loving? A: Stan Barstow
Q: Which English comic regularly utilised the 1963 Boots Randolf composition Yakety Sax? A: Benny Hill
Q: Atoms that have either gained or lost electrons are called what? A: Ions
Q: The Strait of Malacca separates the Malay Peninsula from what Indonesian island? A: Sumatra
Q: On which programme is the presenter followed around by a dog called Nigel? A: Gardener’s World
Q: What is the name of the Barlow’s border terrier in Coronation Street? A: Eccles
Q: Who own a greyhound called Santa’s Little Helper? A: The Simpsons
Q: What was the name of the first pilot to break the sound barrier? A: Chuck Yeager
Q: Which entrepreneur launched Skytrain in 1977 but went bankrupt in 1982? A: Freddy Laker
Q: What is the sporting interest of a ‘wet bob’ at Eton? A: Rowing
Q: What is the name of Donald Duck’s girlfriend? A: Daisy
Q: What kind of creature is a megrim? A: Fish
Q: In which month of the year does Lammas Day fall? A: August
Q: Which English racecourse has a ‘Glorious’ summer meeting? A: Goodwood
Q: Which drink was once known as ‘the green fairy’? A: Absinthe
Q: Which prime minister launched the ‘I’m Backing Britain’ campaign? A: Harold Wilson
Q: Which annual census takes place in the third week of July on the river Thames? A: Swan Upping
Q: Which tradesmen performed most of the wedding ceremonies at Gretna Green? A: Blacksmiths
Q: Which Spanish city is the scene of the annual bull-running from July 6 to 14th? A: Pamplona
Q: Which Oscar-winning actor pulled a man from a burning car in California, saving his life? A: Jamie Foxx
Q: Who died in Antarctica only 30 miles from the finish of his heroic charity effort? A: Henry Worsley
Q: Which architectural style was widely promoted by the famous Inigo Jones? A: Baroque
Q: What do we call a bell-tower not attached to a church? A: Campanile
Q: Which philosopher’s body was stuffed and placed in a case at University College, London? A: Jeremy Bentham
Q: Whose body was preserved in a barrel of brandy for the sea journey home? A: Lord Nelson
Q: Penelope was the wife of which Greek hero? A: Odysseus
Q: Who was given asses’ ears by an angry Apollo? A: Midas
Q: The song Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands is about which singer’s wife? A: Bob Dylan
Q: Which Neil Sedaka track was dedicated to an ex-girlfriend? A: Oh Carol
Q: Which 20 century artist was famous for his ‘drip’ style of painting? A: Jackson Pollack
Q: The Society of Harmonious Fists was responsible for which rebellion? A: Boxer Rebellion
Q: Boris Rankov was on the winning side six times in which famous event? A: University Boat Race
Q: American Greg Louganis twice won Olympic gold at which sport? A: Diving
Q: What is absorbed in an endothermic reaction? A: Heat
Q: What is the most malleable metal? A: Gold
Q: In which Asian state do the Karen people make up 7% of the population? A: Burma
Q: Which country finally joined the United Nations in 2002? A: Switzerland
Q: Who was President of the Screen Actor’s Guild in the 40s and 50s? A: Ronald Reagan
Q: What was the title of cult film hero James Dean’s last film? A: Giant
Q: Whose first venture into ‘talkies’ was Anna Christie? A: Greta Garbo
Q: Who did Jacqueline Kennedy marry on Skorpios in 1968? A: Aristotle Onassis
Q: Providence is the capital of which US state? A: Rhode Island
Q: The tomb of which English king is in Worcester Cathedral? A: King John
Q: The adjective caprine refers to which animals? A: Goats
Q: Which author created the primitive, barely human race the Yahoos? A: Jonathan Swift
Q: What is the V-shaped flying formation of a flock of wild geese called? A: Skein
Q: Egg; Larva; Adult – which stage of complete metamorphosis is missing? A: Pupa
Q: If you cut off a cockroach’s head from what would it be likely to die? A: Starvation
Q: Which wind has a name meaning ‘snow eater’ in American Indian language? A: Chinook
Q: What geographical features come in types called – Continental, Mountain and Piedmont? A: Glaciers
Q: Francis Walsingham was the spy-master of which monarch? A: Elizabeth I
Q: Who was the last reigning Stuart monarch? A: Queen Anne
Q: Which sculptor was refused entry to the French Academy three times? A: Rodin
Q: Which sculptress died in an accidental fire at her Trewyn studios in 1975? A: Barbara Hepworth
Q: Who wrote the songs Camptown Races and Jeanie With The Light Brown Hair? A: Stephen Foster
Q: According to the old advert which beer ‘refreshes the parts other beers can’t reach’? A: Heineken
Q: Which show jumper achieved success on Mister Softee? A: David Broome
Q: Who wrote the songs Keep The Home Fires Burning and We’ll Gather Lilacs? A: Ivor Novello
Q: In which county of Ireland would you find Blarney Castle, home of the Blarney Stone? A: County Cork
Q: At which establishment, famous in literature, was Benjamin a very sceptical donkey? A: Animal Farm
Q: Which game show presenter was deputy headmaster of Caton School near Lancaster? A: Jim Bowen
Q: Who wrote the 1516 work of fiction and political philosophy ‘Utopia’? A: Sir THOMAS MORE
Q: On which Scottish island will you find Fingal’s Cave? A: STAFFA
Q: In 1969, who became Israel’s first woman Prime Minister? A: GOLDA MEIR
Q: What is the highest mountain in the UK outside Scotland? A: SNOWDON
Q: A cronut is a cross between a doughnut and a what? A: CROISSANT
Q: What is the official currency of Bulgaria? A: LEV
Q: In which country is the Hryvnia the currency? A: UKRAINE
Q: What is the currency of Iceland? A: KRONA
Q: In which cycling event did Victoria Pendleton win gold at the 2012 Olympics? A: KEIRIN
Q: The last pair of which extinct flightless birds were killed in 1844? (Two words.) A: GREAT AUKS
Q: Which type of birds have the genus name of ‘Halcyon’? A: KINGFISHERS
Q: Zelda was the wife of which writer, born in Minnesota in 1896? A: F. SCOTT FITZGERALD
Q: Fanny Brawne was engaged to which noted British poet? A: John KEATS
Q: Who played the part of Sybil Fawlty? A: PRUNELLA SCALES
Q: What was the name of Sigourney Weaver’s character in the ‘Alien’ films? A: Ellen RIPLEY
Q: What was the code name for the Normandy landings? A: OPERATION OVERLORD
Q: What was the exact date in 1944 in which they took place? A: 6th JUNE
Q: Whose book, ‘Dreams From My Father’, was published in 1995? A: BARACK OBAMA
Q: What was the two-word title of Dawn French’s 2007 autobiography? A: DEAR FATTY
Q: Who was the author of the 1996 work, ‘Angela’a Ashes’? A: FRANK McCOURT
Q: In Chesterfield, the crooked spire is that of St. who, and All the Saints? A: MARY
Q: In the USA, Martin Luther King Day is observed on the 3rd Monday of which month? A: JANUARY
Q: Who wrote the play ‘Waiting For Godot’, which premiered in 1953? A: Samuel BECKETT
Q: The Egyptian god Anubis had the head of which animal? A: JACKAL
Q: Edward Bear is the alternative name for which character from children’s literature? A: WINNIE THE POOH
Q: What term of endearment do Andy and Flo Capp use, when not arguing? A: PET
Q: Which five-star luxury hotel on Park Lane has 250 rooms and 49 suites? A: DORCHESTER
Q: “Some dance to remember, some dance to forget” – in which hotel? A: Hotel CALIFORNIA
Q: Which ‘ology’ is the study of sexually transmitted diseases? A: VENEREOLOGY
Q: Which STD is colloquially known as ‘the clap’? A: GONORRHEA
Q: Who painted the portrait of Anne of Cleves that so impressed Henry VIII? A: HANS HOLBEIN
Q: Who played the male human lead in the 1951 film, ‘Bedtime for Bonzo’? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Anna Mae Bullock is the real name of which singer, dancer, actress and author? A: TINA TURNER
Q: Which teenage high school student is Spiderman’s alter ego? A: PETER PARKER
Q: Na2SO4 is the chemical formula for what compound? A: SODIUM SULPHATE
Q: What is the name of the professor of phonetics in G.B. Shaw’s play ‘Pygmalion’? A: HENRY HIGGINS
Q: What would the initials ANPR mean to a petrol station attendant? A: AUTOMATIC NUMBER PLATE
Q: What were the first two names of ‘Scott of the Antarctic’? A: ROBERT FALCON
Q: How old was Nelson Mandela, when he passed away on the 5th? A: 95
Q: Which British-American Oscar-winning actress died on the 15th, aged 96? A: JOAN FONTAINE
Q: Which British broadcaster and OBE departed on the 21st, aged 87? A: DAVID COLEMAN
Q: Cancer and Scorpio are two of the water signs. What is the third? A: PISCES
Q: Which date in March is generally the first day of Aries, and the zodiacal year? A: 21st
Q: What was the name of the girl that Tom Sawyer loved? A: BECKY THATCHER
Q: Whom did Colin Firth play when he won the Best Actor Oscar in 2011? A: King GEORGE VI
Q: ‘Everybody’s Talkin’ featured prominently in the music for which 1969 film? A: MIDNIGHT COWBOY
Q: Elizabeth of Glamis and Dorothy Perkins are both types of what? A: ROSES
Q: Which genus of 422 species of flowering plants are often known as cranesbills? A: GERANIUMS
Q: Who was only 19 when he became the Stones’ manager and producer? A: ANDREW Loog OLDHAM
Q: Tinca Tinca is the Latin name for which fish? A: TENCH
Q: Shrub Hill station serves which English town or city? A: WORCESTER
Q: The Jagger-Richard song ‘As Tears Go By’ was the first hit for whom? A: MARIANNE FAITHFULL
Q: Which actress played the lead role in the 1988 film ‘Gorillas in the Mist’? A: SIGOURNEY WEAVER
Q: Which of the Canary Islands has the nickname ‘windy island’? A: Fuerteventura
Q: The extinct Moa was the largest ever what …. to live on Earth? A: Bird
Q: Which failed venture was led by the Duke of Medina Sidonia? A: Spanish Armada
Q: Formed in October 2013, where is St Peter’s Cricket Club based? A: The Vatican
Q: Which Italian dish has a name meaning ‘pick-me-up’? A: Tiramasu
Q: Which Kathryn Bigelow directed film, centred on the hunt for Osama Bin Laden? A: Zero Dark Thirty
Q: Ergophobia is an inordinate fear of what? A: Work
Q: Ivy League member Brown University is situated in which US state? A: Rhode Island
Q: What artistic term was given to the music of Debussy, Ravel and Delius? A: Impressionist
Q: Premiered in 1834, Who composed Harold In Italy? A: Berlioz
Q: Whose patron was Ludwig II of Bavaria? A: Wagner
Q: The villain Emilio Largo features in which film? A: Thunderball
Q: Who made a cameo appearance in Die Another Day as Verity a fencing instructor? A: Madonna
Q: The third day of the Hindu festival of Diwali honours which Goddess of Fortune? A: Lakshmi
Q: In which month does Rio’s Mardi Gras nearly always take place? A: February
Q: Which gland produces the hormones that control the body’s metabolism? A: Thyroid
Q: The condition Ketosis would result from an inadequacy of what in the diet? A: Carbohydrates
Q: In which US state are the Sonoma and Nappa Valley wine growing areas? A: California
Q: In Germany it is Landwein what is the French equivalent? A: Vin de Pays
Q: Amarone is one of the great wines of which country? A: Italy
Q: What is the job title of the statistician employed to assess risks for insurance companies? A: Actuary
Q: Which colour gets its name from the Persian word for dust? A: Khaki
Q: Who was recorded having a scorpion tattoo for a TV series recently? A: David Dimbleby
Q: In heraldry what is the name for the colour black? A: Sable
Q: Which official announces the result of a Parliamentary election? A: Returning Officer
Q: In South Africa and Cape Town in particular, what do locals call a Cape Doctor? A: A Wind
Q: James Brindley is chiefly remembered for building what? A: Canals
Q: Published in 1928, Who wrote the novel Point Counter Point? A: Aldous Huxley
Q: Which of the Spanish ‘Costas’ has a name meaning ‘gold coast’? A: Costa Dorada
Q: What did scientist Wayne Szalinski do in a 1989 Disney movie? A: Shrunk the Kids
Q: In Robin Hood the title character was portrayed as which animal? A: Fox
Q: Which vegetable is found in abundance in an Indian dopiaza? A: Onions
Q: In French cuisine what is the term for a baby chicken? A: Poussin
Q: What is the correct term for an auctioneer’s hammer? A: Gavel
Q: In a band or orchestra what kind of instrument is a high hat? A: Cymbal
Q: Which breed of cattle is called Holstein in the USA? A: Friesian
Q: The Third Foot and Mouth Regiment featured in which Carry On film? A: Carry On Up The Khyber
Q: A locum is a temporary replacement for a doctor and which other profession? A: Clergyman
Q: The badge of which cricket county features three pears? A: Worcester
Q: Which word means ‘thing to wear’ in Japanese? A: Kimono
Q: By what process do plants absorb moisture through their roots? A: Osmosis
Q: Which creature is the emblem of St Agnes? A: Lamb
Q: What name is given to the carved seashells or whalebone fashioned by sailors? A: Scrimshaw
Q: Which hairdresser created the ‘wash n‘ wear bob’ in 1965? A: Vidal Sassoon
Q: Used in brewing what is Humulus Lupulus? A: The Hop Plant
Q: Which condition was known as ‘The King’s Evil’? A: Scrofula
Q: Which adventurer lived at 7 Savile Row? A: Phileas Fogg
Q: At Cambridge the ‘Senior Wrangler’ is the top performer at what? A: Mathematics
Q: Which construction was officially titled the Anti-Fascist Protection Rampart? A: Berlin Wall
Q: The Schlieffen Plan was enacted during which conflict? A: World War I
Q: In which film did Clint Eastwood play Will Munny? A: Unforgiven
Q: What name was given by the Sioux Indians to John J Dunbar? A: Dances With Wolves
Q: Who had a secretary called Joan Greengross? A: Reginald Perrin
Q: For which paper merchants did David Brent work in The Office? A: Wernham Hogg
Q: Which cocktail is ‘The Queen of Drinks’? A: Bloody Mary
Q: A ‘Boilermaker’ is whisky chased with what? A: Beer
Q: Which state did JFK represent as a senator? A: Massachusetts
Q: Patricia Kennedy was divorced from which English actor? A: Peter Lawford
Q: Who is commemorated by a museum at Alloway, Strathclyde? A: Robbie Burns
Q: On which river does Peterborough stand? A: Nene
Q: What is the army equivalent to a Royal Navy Captain? A: Colonel
Q: On which river does Kidderminster stand? A: Stour
Q: What is the army equivalent to a Royal Navy Commodore? A: Brigadier
Q: Who painted The Light of the World? A: Holman Hunt
Q: Which English town did the Romans call Camulodonum? A: Colchester
Q: Which Blackadder cast member was knighted in the 2013 Birthday Honours List? A: Sir Tony Robinson
Q: Which city does Islam regard as the next most holy after Mecca? A: Medina
Q: What is the youngest section of the Scouting movement, covering ages 6 to 8? A: Beaver Scouts
Q: Which seaside resort extends either side of the Great Orme headland? A: Llandudno
Q: What was the country of birth of Pope Benedict XVI? A: Germany
Q: Which football club does Robbie Williams make much of supporting? A: Port Vale
Q: For which London football club did Rod Stewart have an unsuccessful trial? A: Brentford
Q: In which county is Malin Head, the most northerly point in all Ireland? A: County Donegal
Q: Which is the only county in the Republic of Ireland whose name begins with a vowel? A: County Offaly
Q: What is the name of the Teletubbies’ vacuum cleaner-like housekeeper and guardian? A: Noo-noo
Q: Which university’s architecture originally inspired the term “red-brick university”? A: Liverpool University
Q: In which English city are Park Hill Flats, the largest listed building in Europe? A: Sheffield
Q: What phrase is used in the UK for that which North Americans often call a “Texas Gate”? A: Cattle Grid
Q: Which EU country’s national anthem, “The Royal March”, has no official words? A: Spain
Q: a Victorian farce and a situation in which two people take turns to occupy a position? A: Box and Cox
Q: Mercenary soldiers from which country were described as “Wild Geese”? A: Ireland
Q: Which major US city’s metropolitan area is clustered around Puget Sound? A: Seattle
Q: Which material when crushed for recycling is known as “cullet”? A: Glass
Q: Which country’s burgeoning film industry is nicknamed “Nollywood”? A: Nigeria
Q: Give any of the three words which might follow a so-called “Oxford comma”? A: and, or or nor
Q: Who, in August this year, was announced as the new “Dr Who” Doctor? A: Peter Capaldi
Q: What visible features of a concert harp have the same function as a piano’s black keys? A: Pedals
Q: Which kingdom was formed by the 7th century unification of Bernicia and Deira? A: Northumbria
Q: Who was the first monarch to style himself “King of the English” and “King of All Britain”? A: Æthelstan
Q: Which TV quiz show host witnessed the pendant’s burial? A: Bamber Gascoigne
Q: Which baseball legend is the subject of the 2013 biopic, “42”? A: Jackie Robinson
Q: Which 1989 baseball movie had the tagline “If you build it, he will come”? A: Field of Dreams
Q: Also the name of the local dialect, what is the term for an inhabitant of Monaco? A: Monegasque
Q: Which band’s eponymous front man is married to BAFTA-winning actress Carey Mulligan? A: Mumford and Sons
Q: Of which modern country does the former kingdom of Bohemia form a major part? A: Czech Republic
Q: Of which longer mountain range do the Transylvanian Alps form the southern arm? A: Carpathians
Q: Which epic poem, attributed to Homer, tells a history of the Trojan Wars? A: The Iliad
Q: Which Shakespeare play has the siege of Troy as its setting? A: Troilus and Cressida
Q: Which instrument accompanied “Silent Night”’s first performance? A: Guitar
Q: Which poet laureate wrote “While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks”? A: Nahum Tate
Q: Ultimately, which 538-strong institution votes in a new president? A: The Electoral College
Q: Which five words from a nursery rhyme were the first Edison recorded on a phonograph? A: Mary had a little lamb
Q: What term can be both a piece of cartilage in certain joints and a feature of a liquid? A: Meniscus
Q: What term can be both a highly energised state of matter and a bodily fluid? A: Plasma
Q: Which chemical acid makes up around 0.5% of what is called gastric acid? A: HYDROCHLORIC
Q: Anatomy. What can be true, false, or floating? A: RIBS
Q: In the Just William stories by Richmal Crompton, what is the name of William’s gang? A: OUTLAWS
Q: Who was President of the USA in 1976? A: GERALD FORD
Q: Who was the first of the regular cast of ‘Dad’s Army’ to die? A: JAMES BECK
Q: Sax Rohmer created which notorious, fictional criminal? A: Dr. FU MANCHU
Q: Angela Merkel is the leader of which political party in Germany? A: CDU
Q: In 1996, which New Zealand group got to no. 5 in the UK charts with ‘How Bizarre’? A: OMC
Q: Which ‘Eastenders’ character carried the Olympic torch on the programme? A: BILLY MITCHELL
Q: At which indoor sport was TV presenter Matt Baker talented in his younger days? A: GYMNASTICS
Q: In The Scaffold’s ‘Lily the Pink’, which young lady “had terrible freckles”? A: JENNIFER ECCLES
Q: What Islamic religious title was given to General Gordon’s nemesis? A: MAHDI
Q: What long, loose over-garment was the distinctive garb of Jews in the Middle Ages? A: GABERDINE
Q: In 1966, what replaced the Aust ferry? A: SEVERN BRIDGE
Q: In which country is the cake known as ‘stollen’ traditionally eaten at Christmas? A: GERMANY
Q: Where in London do some swimmers take a bracing dip on Christmas Day? A: SERPENTINE, Hyde Park
Q: Which British physicist and mathematician was born on 25/12/1642? A: Sir ISAAC NEWTON
Q: Which statesman, Egypt’s third President, was born on 25/12/1918? A: ANWAR El SADAT
Q: Which former dictator was executed on 25/12/1989? A: Nicolae CEAUSESCU
Q: In ‘Pickwick Papers’, where did Mr. Pickwick and friends have a fine time at Christmas? A: DINGLEY DELL
Q: Which popular sitcom ended on Christmas Eve 1998, after a nine-year run? A: BIRDS OF A FEATHER
Q: ‘Hollyoaks’ is set in which English town or city? A: CHESTER
Q: What was the name of Scrooge’s late partner? (Both names needed.) A: JACOB MARLEY
Q: Who wrote the poem ‘A Visit From St. Nicholas’, aka ‘The Night Before Christmas’? A: CLEMENT C. MOORE
Q: Who were the runners up in the men’s rugby union 2012-13 Six Nations competition? A: ENGLAND
Q: On selling sites online, what does the acronym ‘BUMP’ represent? A: BRING UP MY POST
Q: What is the name of the major seaport which serves Mexico City? A: Veracruz
Q: Which African country was known as South-West Africa, prior to 1968? A: NAMIBIA
Q: The 9-inch tall pyramid at the top of the Washington Monument is made of what? A: ALUMINIUM
Q: Below the ‘out’ line, what is the only part of a squash court that is out of bounds? A: The TIN
Q: On Sept. 20th 2013 , who were runners-up to Nottinghamshire in the YB40 final at Lords? A: GLAMORGAN
Q: In 1967, who became the first recipient of a human heart transplant? A: LOUIS WASHKANSKY
Q: Who wrote the series of children’s books about Dr. Dolittle? A: HUGH LOFTING
Q: What eight-letter word is the Japanese for ‘goodbye’? A: SAYONARA
Q: The European prince Henry the Navigator was born in 1394 in which country? A: PORTUGAL
Q: Which element in the periodic table has the chemical symbol W? A: TUNGSTEN
Q: Which sport was played at Wimbledon prior to lawn tennis? A: CROQUET
Q: Who wrote the 1927 poem ‘The Journey of the Magi’? A: T.S. ELIOT
Q: The Bible. What is the fifth book of the Old Testament? A: DEUTERONOMY
Q: According to tradition in Syria, who or what deliver the Christmas presents? A: CAMELS
Q: Which of Santa’s seven reindeer comes first in the alphabet? A: BLITZEN
Q: Whose radio show can be heard on Radio 1 Mondays to Thursdays, 7-00 to 9-00 pm? A: Zane LOWE
Q: Which Scottish Premiership association football club has Rugby Park for its home ground? A: KILMARNOCK
Q: The 1954 film ‘White Christmas’ is set in which state of the USA? A: VERMONT
Q: Who painted ‘The Adoration of the Magi’ (1624)? A: Peter Paul RUBENS
Q: What is the name of the dog in ‘How the Grinch Stole Christmas’ (2000)? A: MAX
Q: Who composed ‘A Sea Symphony’ between 1903 and 1909? A: Ralph VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: In what year did King Edward VIII’s abdication crisis occur? A: 1936
Q: What nationality is violinist Andre Rieu? A: DUTCH
Q: Strabismus is more commonly known by which one-syllable word? A: SQUINT
Q: Which king of England had the nickname ‘Beauclerc’? A: HENRY I
Q: Who is the patron saint of physicians and surgeons? A: Saint LUKE
Q: Turdus Merula is the scientific/Latin name for which bird? A: BLACKBIRD
Q: The leaves of which tree are used as a symbol for the National Trust? A: OAK
Q: What was the title of the first ever 'Carry On' film? A: CARRY ON SERGEANT
Q: Purl, Plain, and Fisherman's Cable are all types of what? A: KNITTING STITCHES
Q: Who is the famous actress mother of the actress and playwright Amy Rosenthal? A: Maureen LIPMAN
Q: Which 1970s US TV comedy-drama featured two 'outlaws' trying to go straight? A: ALIAS SMITH & JONES
Q: War and Remembrance was the sequel to which US TV World War 2 saga? A: WINDS OF WAR
Q: With which musical instrument does one associate Julian Lloyd Webber? A: CELLO
Q: In 1901 who was first person to transmit radio signals across Atlantic? A: MARCONI
Q: By population, which is the largest state in the USA? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: By area, which is the largest state in the USA? A: ALASKA
Q: If you had pogonophobia what would you be afraid of? A: BEARDS
Q: Which vegetable, a gourd-like squash, derives its name from the Greek for 'large melon'? A: PUMPKIN
Q: In the film 'Psycho', what was Norman Bates' hobby? A: TAXIDERMY
Q: Who became Vice-President of the USA in 2001? A: Dick CHENEY
Q: In which English city will you find the National Railway Museum? A: YORK
Q: What is the main religion in Sri Lanka? A: Theravada BUDDHISM
Q: What colour are the petals of the flower known as the Black-eyed Susan? A: YELLOW
Q: Which London park lies between Horse Guards Parade and Buckingham Palace? A: ST JAMES`S Park
Q: Which fictional character has been played by the largest number of different actors? A: Sherlock HOLMES
Q: What was the title of the first feature film made in Cinemascope? A: THE ROBE
Q: In the Winnie the Poo stories, what is Kanga's baby called? A: ROO
Q: "In the nursery rhyme 'Who Killed Cock Robin', ""Who saw him die?""?" A: I, said the FLY, with my little eye
Q: Attributed to Saint Piran, the flag of which English county is a white cross on a black field? A: CORNWALL
Q: Which temple is depicted on the flag of Cambodia? A: ANGKOR WAT
Q: Percy Bysshe Shelley, Brian Jones and Emperor ‘Barbarossa’ all died in what manner? A: DROWNED
Q: In which English city would you find The Mathematical Bridge? A: CAMBRIDGE
Q: Chennai is the capital and chief city of which Indian state? A: TAMIL NADU
Q: In which European capital city is the Amalienborg Palace the main royal residence? A: COPENHAGEN
Q: "Which Elton John hit of 1972 contains the line: ""I miss the Earth so much, I miss my wife""?" A: ROCKET MAN
Q: Hold Me Close and Gonna Make You a Star were UK No1 singles for which singer? A: David ESSEX
Q: A Scottish river, an English river and a Russian river all share which name ? A: DON
Q: In which country does the Zambezi River reach the sea? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: On which river does Winchester stand? A: ITCHEN
Q: Which TV celebrity chef's Jack Russell Terrier, Chalky, died aged 17 in January 2007? A: Rick STEIN
Q: In Hindu myth, which creature is associated with the god Hanuman? A: MONKEY
Q: Who had a UK Top 10 chart hit in 1976 with 'Devil Woman'? A: Cliff RICHARD
Q: In 1969, which category was added to the Nobel Prizes? A: ECONOMICS
Q: "Who, going through US customs said ""I have nothing to declare but my genius""?" A: Oscar WILDE
Q: Which 'school' has witnessed: 'Blue Murder', 'Pure Hell' and a 'Train Robbery'? A: ST TRINIANS
Q: Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull were born in what would become which US state? A: SOUTH DAKOTA
Q: What type of creature is a Coalmouse? A: BIRD
Q: What does an omophagic creature eat? A: MEAT
Q: Which creature produces the epicurean delicacy known as 'green fat'? A: TURTLE
Q: Which London market was moved in November to a new site at Nine Elms? A: COVENT GARDEN
Q: Born 1780 in Norwich, Which Englishwoman famously campaigned for prison reform? A: Elizabeth FRY
Q: Which young woman fatally stabbed Jean Paul Marat while he was in his bath? A: Charlotte CORDAY
Q: In which city were the crime series 'Homicide: Life on the Street' and 'The Wire' both set? A: BALTIMORE
Q: Which city is the setting for the original crime series 'CSI: Crime Scene Investigation'? A: LAS VEGAS
Q: What is the name of the evil wizard who is always trying to catch the Smurfs? A: GARGAMEL
Q: Via Italian from Latin meaning 'goddess', what do we call a distinguished female singer? A: DIVA
Q: Who’s the only major deity to have the same name in both Greek and Roman mythology? A: APOLLO
Q: """Cor, stinks in here"" was the first line spoken in the first episode of which UK TV series?" A: EASTENDERS
Q: A deficiency in which trace element is a major cause of the condition called goitre? A: IODINE
Q: What name is given to an adult, Red Deer stag aged six years or older? A: HART
Q: Who became President of France in the early summer of 2007? A: Nicolas SARKOZY
Q: Which country was formerly nicknamed 'The Cockpit of Europe'? A: BELGIUM
Q: Which European country has often been referred to as the 'Playground Of Europe'? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Which country was formerly known as the 'Sugar Bowl of the World'? A: CUBA
Q: Dante Gabriel Rossetti's mistress, Jane Burden, was the wife of which artist and poet? A: William MORRIS
Q: Which Russian man designed the legendary AK-47 assault rifle? A: Mikhail KALASHNIKOV
Q: Awarded by Congress; which is the highest military decoration given in the U.S.A.? A: MEDAL OF HONOR
Q: "Which animal is ""Me"" in Roald Dahl's book, 'The Giraffe And The Pelly And Me'?" A: MONKEY
Q: What is the name of the traditional boat used for transport on the River Nile? A: FELUCCA
Q: In which country was the world's first international Air show held in 1909? A: FRANCE
Q: The story setting of which Puccini opera is Paris in the 1830s? A: LA BOHEME
Q: Which vegetable is available in varieties such as 'Bok Choy' and 'Savoy'? A: CABBAGE
Q: Politically speaking, what once linked Brazil, Uruguay, Mozambique and Angola? A: PORTUGUESE COLONIES
Q: Which classic French sauce is made by whisking clarified butter into warm egg yolks? A: Hollandaise
Q: Which city is the home of the Spanish football team Real Betis? A: Seville
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, in which London street did the Muffin Man live? A: Drury Lane
Q: In which country are the headquarters of the high-street clothing retailers H&M? A: Sweden
Q: Skagboys is a prequel to which novel by Irving Welsh? A: Trainspotting
Q: The three principal Uralic languages are Finnish, Estonian, and which other? A: Hungarian
Q: What was the title of Status Quo’s first UK hit single, a tribute to L. S. Lowry? A: Pictures of Matchstick Men
Q: Which Edinburgh landmark did Bill Bryson describe as looking like a “Gothic rocket ship”? A: The Scott Memorial
Q: Which building did Clive James describe as a “portable typewriter full of oyster shells”? A: Sydney Opera House
Q: The so-called “Curse of the Bambino” afflicted which team between 1918 and 2004? A: Boston Red Sox
Q: Tiger Woods wears a shirt of which colour for the final round of each tournament? A: Red
Q: Which of Shakespeare’s plays is set in Vienna? A: Measure for Measure
Q: Which play contains the famous stage direction “Exit, pursued by a bear”? A: A Winter’s Tale
Q: Which group recorded the early heavy-metal classic Very 'Eavy Very 'Umble? A: Uriah Heep
Q: In which board game might you hit a blot? A: Backgammon
Q: What musical instrument forms one of the playing pieces in Buckaroo? A: Guitar
Q: What, according to Dr Johnson, is “the triumph of hope over experience”? A: Second marriage
Q: An island purchased by Isaac Bedlow in 1667 is the site of which US National Monument? A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: Which notable person died in the Ritz Hotel on the 8th of April 2013? A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: In which town is the Black Country Living Museum? A: Dudley
Q: Fictional character Selena Kyle is better known by what name? A: Catwoman
Q: Dr Teeth and the Electric Mayhem was the resident band on which TV show? A: The Muppets
Q: In 1961, where did a CIA-sponsored group make an unsuccessful attempt to invade Cuba? A: Bay of Pigs
Q: Who won an acting Oscar for a six-minute role in Shakespeare in Love? A: Judy Dench
Q: Which canal forms a navigable link between New York and the Great Lakes? A: Erie Canal
Q: Rimini Miramare airport has been renamed in honour of which noted film director? A: Federico Fellini
Q: The House of Braganza once ruled which European country? A: Portugal
Q: Both Hairy Bikers have tattoos on their right arms depicting which iconic figure? A: Che Guevara
Q: Abbotsford House, on the banks of the Tweed, was the home of which author? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: Tórshavn is the capital of which island group? A: Faroe Islands
Q: Which sport is sometimes known as “the sweet science”? A: Boxing
Q: The 1953 Broadway musical Kismet is based on the works of which classical composer? A: Alexander Borodin
Q: Which twin-code rugby international and television commentator is nicknamed “Jiffy”? A: Jonathan Davies
Q: Which famous scientist was born on the same day as Abraham Lincoln? A: Charles Darwin
Q: What is the official hymn of the US Marine Corps? A: The Halls of Montezuma
Q: Ride of the Valkyries is the official quick march of which branch of the British Army? A: Parachute Regiment
Q: The area now rebranded as “Cardiff Bay” was formerly known by what name? A: Tiger Bay
Q: Which tube station forms the southern terminus of the Bakerloo line? A: Elephant and Castle
Q: Who wrote the short-story collection The Dubliners, published in 1914? A: James Joyce
Q: In Australia, what sort of creature is a goanna? A: Monitor lizard
Q: Tom Lehrer’s Elements Song is sung to which tune from a Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: I am the Very Model of a
Q: Who was the treacherous knight of the Round Table? A: Mordred
Q: What sort of creature is an Alewife? A: A Fish
Q: Which singer had a backing group called the Pips? A: Gladys Knight
Q: Who was the only female competitor not to be given a sex test at the 1976 Olympics? A: Princess Anne
Q: Who co-produced the album Thriller with Michael Jackson? A: Quincy Jones
Q: In 1918, who wrote the song God Bless America? A: Irving Berlin
Q: In which opera does Lily the Strawberry Woman appear? A: Porgy and Bess
Q: What is the world’s single largest solid gold statue? A: The Golden Buddha
Q: Who was the first woman to complete the English Grand National horse race? A: Geraldine Rees
Q: Heather Mackay was British Open Champion 16 times at which sport? A: Squash
Q: What relation was William III to Charles I? A: Grandson
Q: On which island is the New York borough Brooklyn? A: Long Island
Q: Which country owns the Queen Elizabeth islands? A: Canada
Q: Marilyn Monroe played the character Sugar Kane in which film? A: Some Like It Hot
Q: Who played Hotlips in the film version of Mash? A: Sally Kellerman
Q: Leonard Alfred Schneider is best remembered by what stage name? A: Lenny Bruce
Q: What type of creature is a Turnstone? A: A Bird
Q: Alvin Stardust first found fame under what name? A: Shane Fenton
Q: Which king was the first English Prince of Wales? A: Edward II
Q: In which film did a Rolls Royce have the number plate AU 1? A: Goldfinger
Q: In 20,000 leagues Under the Sea, what was the name Captain Nemo’s submarine? A: The Nautilus
Q: Who wrote the 1949 play Death of a Salesman? A: Arthur Miller
Q: Who partnered Flavia Cacace to win the Xmas Special? A: Rufus Hound
Q: Under whose reign did England lose its last possession on mainland France? A: Mary I
Q: Which French Monarch was known as the Citizen King? A: Louis-Philippe
Q: In which book do the Ten Commandments first appear? A: Exodus
Q: Who did Lord Peter Wimsey marry in the novel Busman’s Honeymoon? A: Harriet Vane
Q: To which club did Mycroft Holmes belong? A: The Diogenes Club
Q: Which drink did J.S. Bach like so much that he wrote a cantata for it? A: Coffee
Q: Who wrote The Symphony of a Thousand? A: Mahler
Q: What kind of flower is a Tequila Sunrise? A: Rose
Q: In which Australian state is the city of Newcastle? A: New South Wales
Q: Who is the oldest man to win Olympic Gold at 100 metres? A: Linford Christie
Q: What, associated with the word, does a Galactophagist drink? A: Milk
Q: Who was known as the Scourge of God? A: Attila the Hun
Q: In which county is Saffron Walden? A: Essex
Q: For which king was the Palace at Versailles built? A: Louis XIV
Q: Which fictional character tilted at windmills? A: Don Quixote
Q: What is the highest point on the Isle of Man? A: Snaefell
Q: Born 384 BCE, which philosopher was a tutor to Alexander the Great? A: Aristotle
Q: Whose preserved head can be seen in a large glass case at University College London? A: Jeremy Bentham
Q: In which Australian state did a gold rush begin in July 1851? A: Victoria
Q: Erect-Crested, Little Blue (or Fairy), Humboldt and Chinstrap are species of what? A: Penguin
Q: In which town was a public supply of electricity first made available in the UK? A: Godalming
Q: Who was the first to put steam engines in ships and build the first practical submarine? A: Robert Fulton
Q: Who is the Wizard of Wishaw? A: John Higgins
Q: What was Charles Dickens final completed novel? A: Our Mutual Friend
Q: What was Thomas Hardy s last completed novel? A: Jude the Obscure
Q: Written by William Boyd what was the last James Bond novel to be published? A: Solo
Q: Which WWII song is heard at the end of Dr Srangelove? A: We’ll Meet Again
Q: The Doors song The End is heard at the end of which war film? A: Apocalypse Now
Q: Which cartoon character is mentioned Bowie’s song Life on Mars? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: According to the children’s rhyme, What is Tuesday’s Child? A: Full of Grace
Q: Which North African dish consists of semolina granules cooked by steaming? A: Couscous
Q: Who starred as Buffy the Vampire Slayer in the US TV series? A: Sarah Michelle Gellar
Q: Who directed the 1975 film Lisztomania? A: Ken Russell
Q: Rudolphe Raspe is best known for writing about whom? A: Baron Munchausen
Q: The characters Captain Cuttle and Mrs MacStinger appear in which Dickins novel? A: Dombey & Son
Q: The doomed Royal Navy ship HMS Thunder Child appeared in which Sci Fi classic? A: The War of the Worlds
Q: By population what is the second city of Belgium? A: Antwerp
Q: By population what is the second city of Canada? A: Montreal
Q: Whales can be divided into two types Toothed and what? A: Baleen
Q: Which whale has the largest brain of any creature on Earth? A: The Sperm Whale
Q: What was the Northern most slave state of the US Civil War? A: Delaware
Q: Who immediately succeeded Abraham Lincoln as President? A: Andrew Johnson
Q: Prior to Sochi which country has won the most Winter Olympic medals? A: Norway
Q: Who was the only boxer to win a world title without ever having a manager? A: Jake La Motta
Q: Which Soap screened the first transsexual character? A: Coronation Street
Q: When she arrived in Eastenders, who was Binnie Roberts’ girlfriend? A: Della Alexander
Q: WWII, in which year did the Battle of Kursk occur ? A: 1943
Q: Gorbachev became Soviet Premier in which year ? A: 1985
Q: WWII, in which year did the Battle of Stalingrad take place ? A: 1943
Q: Which actress provided the love interest in the film High Noon ? A: Grace Kelly
Q: To which union do the acting profession belong to ? A: Equity
Q: Also a colour shade, which creature is associated with the Babycham bottle label? A: FAWN
Q: First appearing in 1572, which country’s flag is the oldest tricolour in the world? A: NETHERLANDS
Q: What very British name do we give to an alloy of Antimony, Copper and Tin? A: BRITANNIA METAL
Q: Having lived in exile for three years at Chiselhurst in Kent, who died in 1873? A: NAPOLEON III
Q: Fernando Alonso drives for which F1 team? A: Scuderia FERRARI
Q: In the TV series 'Lost', who played a rock musician from Manchester called Charlie Pace? A: Dominic MONAGHAN
Q: The signature tune of which TV show is entitled 'Barnacle Bill'? A: BLUE PETER
Q: Which English spa town hosts an annual International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival? A: BUXTON
Q: Which place did Freddy Mercury & Montserrat Caballë sing about in 1987? A: BARCELONA
Q: Which male star played the title role in the 2004 film 'The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou'? A: Bill MURRAY
Q: In which city are the districts of Didsbury and Moston? A: MANCHESTER
Q: What nationality is tennis legend Roger Federer? A: SWISS
Q: Inventor of the telephone Alexander Graham Bell died and was buried in which country? A: CANADA
Q: Which was the first country to establish a permanent airport on Antarctica? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Mt Elbrus, Europe's highest, is in which country? A: RUSSIA
Q: Kigali is the capital of which African country? A: RWANDA
Q: Ultimately, which Middle Eastern country was the origin of all the UK’s Golden Hamsters? A: SYRIA
Q: What nationality was the astronomer Edwin Powell Hubble (1889-1953)? A: AMERICAN
Q: What nationality is the TV company who created the popular animated TV series ‘Pingu’? A: SWISS
Q: If you had rubella what would you have caught? A: GERMAN MEASLES
Q: What is the German name for Lake Constance? A: BODENSEE
Q: The Robert Gordon University is located in which Scottish city? A: ABERDEEN
Q: The 1898 'Battle of Santiago' on the island of Cuba brought an end to which war? A: SPANISH-AMERICAN War
Q: Which Muppet shares his name with members (male & female) of the Roosevelt clan? A: KERMIT
Q: Which was the first of Jane Austen's novels completed for publication? A: NORTHANGER ABBEY
Q: A Dzo is an Asian cross between which 'wild' and which domesticated animal? A: YAK AND COW
Q: Who was the female lead in John Wayne's last film, 'The Shootist'? A: Lauren BACALL
Q: Who sang the theme song to the film '9 to 5'? A: Dolly PARTON
Q: If, as is almost impossible now, you had variola, which disease would you have? A: SMALLPOX
Q: What flower was traditionally the symbol of secrecy? A: ROSE
Q: Which herb did the Romans eat with the intention of preventing drunkenness? A: PARSLEY
Q: In Western tradition, Emerald is a birth stone for which month? A: MAY
Q: In 1969, which Brit was the first person without doubt to reach the North Pole on foot? A: Sir Wally HERBERT
Q: What collective description is used by most of the people we mistakenly call 'Eskimos'? A: INUIT
Q: Which savage European war was ended by the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648? A: THIRTY YEARS war
Q: Ending humiliatingly for Italy, which country did Mussolini try to invade in October 1940? A: GREECE
Q: Angela Ahrendts is CEO of which UK outfitter and clothing manufacturer loved by 'Chavs'? A: BURBERRY
Q: Which late Englishman has most often won the accolade 'British Designer of the Year'? A: Alexander McQUEEN
Q: Besides Uranium, which extremely radioactive element is extracted from Pitchblende? A: RADIUM
Q: What is the SI unit of electrical current? A: AMPERE
Q: What building was home to novelist Mary Fisher in 'The Life and Loves of a She-Devil'? A: LIGHTHOUSE
Q: Which drama featured Michael Pallin, Robert Lindsay, & Julie Walters as Lindsay's mum? A: GBH
Q: What term is given to a buyer of new shares expecting the market will push the price up? A: STAG
Q: What does the Latin 'Caveat Emptor' mean? A: Let the BUYER BEWARE
Q: Which world famous beer originated in the Philippines - not Spain as you might expect? A: SAN MIGUEL
Q: Responsible for 1/3 of all tonnage; which country produces more olives than any other? A: SPAIN
Q: Which N.W. club were thrown out of the FA Cup in 2006 for fielding an ineligible player? A: BURY
Q: Which legendary race horse was the subject of a major feature film in 2003? A: SEABISCUIT
Q: In which Winter Olympics city did John Curry win gold in 1976? A: INNSBRUCK
Q: What was the gangster George Nelson's best known nickname? A: BABY FACE
Q: Which American owned a yacht called 'Honey Fitz'? A: John F KENNEDY
Q: Which god in Greek myth, the son of Poseidon and Amphitrite, is messenger of the sea? A: TRITON
Q: Which American state produces the most potatoes? A: IDAHO
Q: On which Island did many of the mutineers from HMS Bounty famously settle? A: PITCAIRN
Q: Who wrote the music for the ballets 'The Firebird' and 'The Rite of Spring'? A: Igor STRAVINSKY
Q: Who composed the 'Brandenburg Concertos'? A: Johann Sebastian BACH
Q: Which classical composer wrote the 19 'Hungarian Rhapsodies' for piano? A: Franz LISZT
Q: What was invented by James Dewer in 1872? A: VACUUM or THERMOS FLASK
Q: Who invented the first mass-produced toothbrush in 1780? A: William ADDIS
Q: In 1871, Whitcome Judson created what - originally used for fastening shoes? A: ZIPPER
Q: Which country contains provinces called Bihar and Kerela? A: INDIA
Q: What is the capitol of Morocco? A: RABAT
Q: Which country was formerly called Northern Rhodesia? A: ZAMBIA
Q: Which 2 surnames are linked to a ‘60s terrorist group that became the Red Army Faction? A: BAADER-MEINHOF
Q: In which country did the world's first human heart transplant take place? A: SOUTH AFRICA
Q: In which region of Germany was the notorious Dachau concentration camp? A: BAVARIA
Q: Which European country introduced the world's first diesel locomotive in 1912? A: GERMANY
Q: Nicknamed 'Scarlet Speedster', Barry Allen was the alter ego of which comic superhero? A: THE FLASH
Q: Who, as you might expect, is the patron Saint of Boy Scouts? A: SAINT GEORGE
Q: Which often embattled city is the supposed resting place of OT patriarch Abraham? A: HEBRON
Q: Which other English club did David Moyes manage before he was at Everton? A: PRESTON North End
Q: Galway is a county within which Irish province? A: CONNACHT
Q: A two-pronged fitting to which one would attach a (ship's) line or rope? A: CLEAT
Q: Which future Prime Minister was appointed UK chancellor of the exchequer in 1924? A: Winston CHURCHILL
Q: Which black American singer was known as 'The Hi De Ho Man'? A: Cab CALLOWAY
Q: Which former home of the Earl of Shrewsbury is now an amusement park? A: Alton Towers
Q: Who upset Elizabeth I by secretly marrying Elizabeth Throckmorton? A: Walter Raleigh
Q: Which style of acting was founded by Konstantin Stanislavsky? A: The Method
Q: Which country star wrote the Patsy Cline hit Crazy? A: Willie Nelson
Q: Who is the ‘Coalminer’s Daughter’? A: Loretta Lynn
Q: What is the name of the famous game reserve on the Serengeti Plain in Kenya? A: Masai Mara
Q: From which country did Rwanda obtain independence in 1962? A: Belgium
Q: The ancient town of Timbuktu is in which country? A: Mali
Q: Which poet’s love is like a red, red, rose that’s newly sprung in June? A: Robbie Burns
Q: What was first founded in 1865 in Pulaski, Tennessee? A: Ku Klux Klan
Q: Who played the title character in Bugsy Malone? A: Scott Baio
Q: Only two elements are liquid at room temperature – mercury is one – what is the other? A: Bromine
Q: In maths the hexadecimal numeral system has a base of which number? A: 16
Q: What name is given to the outward force on a rotating body? A: Centrifugal
Q: Who is the only son of Prince Rainier of Monaco? A: Prince Albert
Q: According to Einstein what is the Fourth Dimension? A: Time
Q: Which Spaniard painted the Naked Maja? A: Goya
Q: At the mouth of which English river is Spurn Head? A: Humber
Q: The Tripitaka are scriptures central to which faith? A: Buddhism
Q: Which BBC sitcom features various members of the Pearson family in Tyne and Wear? A: Hebburn
Q: Which record label turned down the Beatles after an audition in 1962? A: Decca
Q: Which general had a surname meaning ‘of France’? A: De Gaulle
Q: Which general burned Atlanta in the American Civil War? A: Sherman
Q: In which city is the HQ of the World Health Organisation? A: Geneva
Q: Which is Britain’s largest native butterfly? A: Swallowtail
Q: What name is given to the long tongue or feeding tube of a butterfly? A: Proboscis
Q: Who failed three IQ tests on an LBC radio phone-in? A: Boris Johnson
Q: With which part of the body does a stomatologist specialise? A: The Mouth
Q: Low blood sugar is known by which medical term? A: Hypoglycemia
Q: Who is the second-most senior judge in England and Wales after the Lord Chief Justice? A: Master of the Rolls
Q: The four Inns of Court are Gray’s Inn, Inner Temple, Middle Temple and which other? A: Lincoln’s Inn
Q: Which Scottish author died in Samoa? A: Robert Louis Stevenson
Q: Which Russian author was reprieved from execution at the last minute? A: Dostoyevsky
Q: What does an American call a frying pan? A: Skillet
Q: Who is the female presenter of the UK TV programme ‘Most Haunted’? A: Yvette Fielding
Q: In which sport is an attacking shot called a ‘spike’? A: Volleyball
Q: The island of Zanzibar is part of which African country? A: Tanzania
Q: Who translated the Bible in 1380? A: John Wycliff
Q: What reached England from Europe in 1348? A: The Black Death
Q: Here lies one whose name was writ in water? A: John Keats
Q: Murdered by a traitor and a coward whose name is not worthy to appear here? A: Jesse James
Q: Tom Rowlands and Ed Simons make up what duo? A: The Chemical Brothers
Q: Which writer’s name means ‘jackdaw’ in Czech? A: Kafka
Q: Which country withdrew from the Warsaw Pact in 1968? A: Albania
Q: Which animal was once thought to sweat blood? A: Hippopotamus
Q: What is the nickname of Richard Rogers’ new Leadenhall building in London? A: The Cheesegrater
Q: An armoire is a large ornate ……..what? A: Wardrobe
Q: Brewster, spoonback and fauteuil are all types of what? A: Chair
Q: Mount Toubkal is the highest peak in which range of mountains? A: Atlas
Q: Off which country is the Gulf of Carpenteria? A: Australia
Q: Islam. What is the name of the festival which immediately follows the end of Ramadan? A: Id-ul-Fitr
Q: Which ancient religion is followed by Parsees or Parsi? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: What is the highest caste in Hinduism? A: Brahman
Q: A simian person would resemble which creatures? A: Apes
Q: What do we call a number that divides exactly into another? A: Factor
Q: Where in the body is the Sartorius muscle? A: Leg
Q: Who composed The Cat Waltz? A: Chopin
Q: Where is the body is the Trapezius muscle? A: Neck
Q: Who composed The Harmonious Blacksmith? A: Handel
Q: What is a female ferret called? A: Jill
Q: In French cuisine, of what are lardons small pieces? A: Bacon
Q: Of which mollusc are the acorn and goose the two varieties found on British shorelines? A: Barnacle
Q: Who was the Roman counterpart of the Greek goddess Demeter? A: Ceres
Q: Who was the only driver to win a F1 World Championship in a car of his own design? A: Jack Brabham
Q: Who or what are The Warrior, The Plank and The Downward Dog? A: Yoga poses
Q: Where might you go to visit the big gun called Mons Meg? A: Edinburgh Castle
Q: For achievement in what field is the Fields Medal awarded? A: Mathematics
Q: What was the country of birth of the Gilbert half of Gilbert and George? A: Italy
Q: Who, with his colleague Picasso, was credited with originating Cubism? A: Georges Braque
Q: Which mammal is alternatively known as the glutton? A: Wolverine
Q: What is the one-word alternative name for the spiny anteater? A: Echidna
Q: Which Renaissance artist fled Rome after a fatal brawl, possibly over a game of tennis? A: Caravaggio
Q: As what is the barely navigable sea route from Baffin Bay to the Beaufort Sea known? A: North-West Passage
Q: Under what stage name did rock’n’roller Richard Penniman perform? A: Little Richard
Q: Which fleet was famously defeated and scattered at the Battle of Gravelines? A: Spanish Armada
Q: In which British city did gangs in the 1980s fight a turf war dubbed the “Ice Cream Wars”? A: Glasgow
Q: Which month traditionally sees the start of the Isle of Man TT races? A: May
Q: Limestone is essentially made up of which chemical compound? A: Calcium carbonate
Q: In which Irish county is the extensive area of limestone pavement known as The Burren? A: County Clare
Q: Which is the only club from outside Scotland to play in the Scottish Football League? A: Berwick Rangers
Q: Which is the only club in the League of Ireland from outside the Republic of Ireland? A: Derry City
Q: Which is the only club from outside France to play in the French Ligue 1? A: AS Monaco FC
Q: Which composer’s “Minute Waltz” is used as theme music for ”Just a Minute”? A: Frédéric Chopin
Q: Which folk band’s version of The Archers’ theme introduces the Sunday Omnibus Edition? A: The Yetties
Q: The “Brain of Britain” theme music is adapted from which Mozart piece? A: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik
Q: Which life-saving natural hormone was first extracted by Banting and Best in 1921? A: Insulin
Q: Which Cumbrian town’s boundaries incorporate the 11-mile-long Walney Island? A: Barrow-in-Furness
Q: Which town’s Horse Fair each June is notable as a gathering for Gypsies and Travellers? A: Appleby-in-Westmorland
Q: Living from 1672 to 1769, which card games authority is known as “the father of Whist”? A: Edmond Hoyle
Q: Under what pen name does novelist David Cornwell write? A: John le Carré
Q: Who is the medical examiner central to the crime novels of Patricia Cornwell? A: Kay Scarpetta
Q: What is the nautical term for a staircase between two decks on a ship? A: Companionway
Q: Which long nonsense poem is subtitled: An Agony in 8 Fits? A: The Hunting of the Snark
Q: Which eponymous operatic heroine leaps to her death from Rome’s Castel Sant’Angelo? A: Tosca
Q: In which modern-day country is Bizet’s “The Pearl Fishers” set? A: Sri Lanka
Q: Of what breed was Schnorbitz, with whom Bernie Winters appeared in his later career? A: St Bernard
Q: Which TV detective had a pet dog called Jussi in some series? A: Kurt Wallander
Q: Which Welsh town’s Esplanade Hotel was for 75 years The Barbarians’ headquarters? A: Penarth
Q: Which musician played Nikola Tesla in the 2006 film The Prestige? A: David Bowie
Q: What is the title of Mandela’s autobiography of his life up to his release from prison? A: Long Walk to Freedom
Q: Paradoxically, which city is the original home of the Harlem Globetrotters? A: Chicago
Q: Which country’s national flag is the only one which is not rectangular (or square)? A: Nepal
Q: At which school was squash first played? A: Harrow
Q: Inhabitants of which UK city are often called “Loiners”? A: Leeds
Q: Which river flows the length of the Grand Canyon? A: Colorado
Q: What is Canada’s national animal? A: Beaver
Q: Which fruit is often carved onto gateposts as a symbol of hospitality? A: Pineapple
Q: Which classic novel begins, “Call me Ishmael”? A: Moby Dick
Q: What is the two-letter prefix used in numbering the highest grade of Spanish motorway? A: AP
Q: In The Archers, which river flows through Ambridge? A: Am
Q: Which species of wild goose, Anser anser, is the ancestor of all European domestic geese? A: Greylag Goose
Q: What is the name of the coarse woollen textile used to cover snooker tables? A: Baize
Q: Off the coast of which country do the volcanic Westmann Islands lie? A: Iceland
Q: Of what species is Yggdrasil, the immense tree at the heart of Norse mythology? A: Ash
Q: Which nonsense poem is subtitled, An Agony in 8 Fits? A: The Hunting of the Snark
Q: Of whose “pilgrimage” did Lord Byron write a long narrative poem? A: Childe Harold
Q: Which breakfast cereal’s manufacturing process did Henry Perky patent in 1895? A: Shredded Wheat
Q: What is the one-word name of the artificial sweetener sold as Candarel and NutraSweet? A: Aspartame
Q: Abbreviated to MVP, what is the American sporting equivalent of “Man of the Match”? A: Most Valuable Player
Q: Addresses in and around which British town or city have post codes beginning CA? A: Carlisle
Q: Who was the earliest King of England to be the title character of a Shakespeare play? A: King John
Q: Which US composer wrote the 1976 opera, Einstein on the Beach? A: Philip Glass
Q: Of Dvořák’s 9 symphonies, which number is subtitled, From the New World? A: Symphony No. 9
Q: What is the more modern name for the electrical device sometimes called a condenser? A: Capacitor
Q: Which drink is made from crème de cassis topped with white wine? A: Kir
Q: As what was Birmingham’s James Turner Street rechristened for a Channel 4 series? A: Benefit Street
Q: Which small, remote island is known to its inhabitants as Rapa Nui? A: Easter Island
Q: Referring to their feeding method, ducks can be diving ducks - or what other kind? A: Dabbling ducks
Q: Which is the only English cathedral other than Lichfield to have three spires? A: Truro
Q: Which “Tom” gave simultaneous 1958 hits to Lonnie Donegan and the Kingston Trio? A: Tom Dooley
Q: Which 17th century scientist, also Irish-born, was the 14th son of the 1st Earl of Cork? A: Robert Boyle
Q: Which make and model of aeroplane makes up Ryanair’s entire fleet? A: Boeing 737-800
Q: Who played the role of Bamber Gascoigne in the 2005 feature film Starter for Ten? A: Mark Gatiss
Q: In area, which is the largest island of the Inner Hebrides? A: Skye
Q: Which aliens in Doctor Who originate from Earth’s twin planet, Mondas? A: Cybermen
Q: Mel Brooks’ spoof of the Robin Hood films was called ‘Robin Hood, …’ .. what? A: MEN IN TIGHTS
Q: Which composer of classical music is sometimes referred to as ‘Joe Green’? A: GUISEPPE VERDI
Q: With which English county do you most associate stargazy pie? A: CORNWALL
Q: Which nation slipped back into technical recession in mid-November 2014? A: JAPAN
Q: “I sat on the roof and kicked off the moss” is a line from which 1971 Top 10 hit? A: YOUR SONG
Q: Band Aid II topped the Xmas charts in 1989, but who had the top spot in ’88 and ’90? A: CLIFF RICHARD
Q: The winner of ‘X Factor’ topped the Xmas charts in 2010 with ‘When We Collide’. What is his name? A: MATT CARDLE
Q: Formerly based in Ilkeston, which Newark brewery produces Christmas Cake Walk? A: FUNFAIR
Q: ‘Rosey Nosey’ is a seasonal ale brewed by which Lincolnshire brewer? A: BATEMANS
Q: In which year in the 50s was the first televised Queen’s speech? A: 1957
Q: Which tv private investigator lived on the island of Oahu, Hawaii? A: Thomas MAGNUM
Q: What do the letters BB represent in competitive gymnastics? A: BALANCE BEAM
Q: Who served as the ninth Governor of Alaska from 2006 to 2009? A: SARAH PALIN
Q: Which former ‘TOWIE’ star thought that Ebola virus was the name of a pop group? A: AMY CHILDS
Q: When sending an email, what would be meant by the letters ‘bcc’? A: BLIND CARBON COPY
Q: What is the correct term for ‘a nose job’? A: RHINOPLASTY
Q: Golfers have used terms such as twitches, staggers, jitters and jerks to describe what? A: The YIPS
Q: Which Spanish city is famous for bull running during the eight-day San Fermin festival? A: PAMPLONA
Q: The calcaneus is the Latin name for which part of the body? A: HEEL bone
Q: The outer whorl of a flower is called a calyx . What is the plural form of the word? A: CALYCES
Q: Which tv soap is set in Glendarroch? A: TAKE THE HIGH ROAD
Q: Who played the title role in ‘Hamish Macbeth’? A: ROBERT CARLYLE
Q: In 1830, the world’s first railway suspension bridge was opened over what British river? A: TEES
Q: Gaston Leroux wrote which 1911 novel, later a famous musical? A: The PHANTOM OF THE OPERA
Q: From what English port does the Hispaniola set sail in ‘Treasure Island’? A: BRISTOL
Q: Who played Violet Kray, the mother, in the 1990 film ‘The Krays’? A: BILLIE WHITELAW
Q: Which character in ‘Oliver Twist’ is later revealed to be Oliver’s great uncle? A: MR. BROWNLOW
Q: In Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’, what M is the name of Prospero’s daughter? A: MIRANDA
Q: “I have lifted up mine eyes unto the hills” is the motto of which English county? A: CUMBRIA
Q: In 1985, the remaining members of which pop band changed their name to Starship? A: JEFFERSON STARSHIP
Q: What fine translucent cotton muslin is usually stiffened and used for women's clothing? A: ORGANDY
Q: In what figure of speech is understatement used to emphasize a point by denying the opposite? A: LITOTES
Q: What word refers to a verb form which functions as a noun, ending in –ing? A: GERUND
Q: D.C.J. What part did Denise Richards play in ‘The World is not Enough’ (1999)? A: DR. CHRISTMAS JONES
Q: Six teenagers are aged 13, 13, 14, 16, 18, and 19. What is the median of their ages? A: FIFTEEN
Q: In which decade of the last century was the first patent application for a microwave oven? A: 1930s
Q: Which head of state was shot by firing squad on Christmas Day 1989? A: NICOLAE CEAUSESCU
Q: Which US comedian, whose stage persona was that of a miser, died on Boxing Day 1974? A: JACK BENNY
Q: The USA. In which state is the geographic centre of the contiguous states? A: KANSAS
Q: The building known as the Atomium can be found in which European city? A: BRUSSELS
Q: Born in 1849, Edmund Barton became the first Prime Minister of which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: What was the first name of Henry VIII’s elder sister, who married James IV of Scotland? A: MARGARET
Q: Some Minions have two eyes, but many have only one. In which 2010 film did they first appear? A: DESPICABLE ME
Q: Who was the last Whig Prime Minister of the UK? A: Lord John RUSSELL
Q: Which pop group’s last UK number 1 single was entitled ‘Holler’? A: SPICE GIRLS
Q: What is the name of the central family in ‘National Lampoon’s Christmas Vacation’? A: THE GRISWOLDS
Q: What real bird was later replaced by a fake one in traditional ‘hunts’ on Boxing Day? A: WREN
Q: ‘The knight of the doleful countenance’ refers to what literary figure? A: DON QUIXOTE
Q: According to legend who was the son of Uther Pendragon? A: King Arthur
Q: What kind of creature is a fluke? A: Worm
Q: What used to be called the Trucial States? A: United Arab Emirates
Q: Which publication used to call itself The London Charivari? A: Punch Magazine
Q: Which cocktail consists of vodka, Galliano and orange juice? A: Harvey Wallbanger
Q: Which creature fought the lion in Alice Through the Looking Glass? A: Unicorn
Q: Opened in 1921, In which US city is the Wrigley Building? A: Chicago
Q: Which multi medal winning track athlete will make his London marathon debut in April? A: Mo Farah
Q: Who was Emperor of Rome when the invasion of Britain was completed? A: Claudius
Q: What fortification did the Romans build from the Forth to the Clyde? A: Antonine Wall
Q: Who was the first woman jockey to complete the course? A: Geraldine Rees
Q: What road divides Aintree and is crossed by National runners? A: Melling Road
Q: What is the capital of Suriname? A: Paramaribo
Q: Montevideo stands at the mouth of which river? A: The River Plate
Q: Proverbially what does one need if one ‘sups with the Devil’? A: A Long Spoon
Q: Prince Lev Nikolayevich Myshkin is the title character in which famous novel? A: The Idiot
Q: Which eponymous Dickens hero is a simpleton? A: Barnaby Rudge
Q: Which US animated series features the Griffin family? A: Family Guy
Q: In which state of the USA was Elvis Presley born? A: Mississippi
Q: What was Queen Victoria’s comment upon witnessing an impersonation of herself? A: We Are Not Amused
Q: Bjorn Ulvaeus of ABBA fame collaborated with Tim Rice on which hit musical? A: Chess
Q: Which acid occurs naturally in the human stomach? A: Hydrochloric
Q: Boris the ………….. (The Who)? A: Spider
Q: What bird did sailors call Mother Carey’s Chicken? A: Stormy Petrel
Q: What was the alter ego of Music Hall comedian Arthur Lucan in the inter-war years? A: Old Mother Riley
Q: The Household Cavalry consists of the Life Guards Regiment and which other? A: Blues and Royals
Q: In which town is the Officer Training School for the Royal Navy? A: Dartmouth
Q: What was the nickname of American bank robber Charles Floyd? A: Pretty Boy
Q: What is the name for the centre player in the front row of a rugby scrum? A: Hooker
Q: If someone is crapulous - in what condition are they? A: Drunk
Q: Which cartoon character says ‘Drat and double drat’? A: Dick Dastardly
Q: What will our Sun become in the first stage of its death? A: Red Giant
Q: Apart from the Sun which is the nearest star to Earth? A: Proxima Centauri
Q: What term describes the plucking of string instruments? A: Pizzicato
Q: What is the term for the background of a heraldic shield? A: Field
Q: Who plays Martha Costello QC in the BBC’s legal drama Silk? A: Maxine Peake
Q: Which was the first capital city to host the Winter Olympics? A: Oslo
Q: Which king founded Eton College in 1440? A: Henry VI
Q: Old Wykehamists are former pupils of which school? A: Winchester College
Q: Which school has famous old boys – Jeremy Clarkson, Roald Dahl and Graeme Garden? A: Repton
Q: Who was manager of Melchester Rovers when Roy Race joined the club? A: Ben Galloway
Q: The Sovereign Base Areas are on which island? A: Cyprus
Q: Which dictator called himself ‘Brother Number One’? A: Pol Pot
Q: Which is the American state of Wisconsin’s most populous city? A: Milwaukee
Q: Brasilia is the capital but which city in Brazil has the largest population? A: Sao Paulo
Q: Which is the biggest Indian city by population? A: Mumbai
Q: Gordon Comstock is the chief protagonist in which Orwell novel? A: Keep the Aspidistra Flying
Q: On which Scottish island did he write 1984 between 1946 and 1948? A: Jura
Q: Between 1922 and 1927 Orwell lived in Burma – what was his job there? A: Policeman
Q: What is the clotting substance in the blood called? A: Fibrin
Q: Which Gilbert & Sullivan operetta is subtitled Bunthorne’s Bride? A: Patience
Q: What are fats in the blood called? A: Lipids
Q: Which Gilbert & Sullivan operetta is subtitled The Merryman and his Maid? A: The Yeoman of the Guard
Q: Which acid is produced by the Gay-Lussac process? A: Sulphuric
Q: Which Middle-Eastern country calls itself The Hashemite Kingdom? A: Jordan
Q: Which pungent spice is called ‘jeera’ in Indian cooking? A: Cumin
Q: What was the first forename of the Russian composer Stravinsky? A: Igor
Q: Phillipe Sella was a great French star in which sport? A: Rugby Union
Q: Which TV cop has Detective Sergeant John Bacchus for his assistant? A: Inspector George Gently
Q: Which ruthless dictator was nicknamed ‘Dada’? A: Idi Amin
Q: Which eponymous classical heroine goes to Lowood School? A: Jane Eyre
Q: Which of the robbers was considered the mastermind or leader? A: Bruce Reynolds
Q: From which prison did Ronnie Biggs escape after serving only 19 months of his sentence? A: Wandsworth
Q: The Land of the Long White Cloud? A: New Zealand
Q: What are the elongated ‘whale shaped’ hills caused by glacial action? A: Drumlins
Q: The three basic types of rock are – igneous, metamorphic and which other? A: Sedimentary
Q: After the suicide of Ian Curtis his band Joy Division played on under which name? A: New Order
Q: Who told us to Rock The Casbah in 1982? A: Clash
Q: An IRA car bomb in 1973 damaged which famous London building? A: The Old Bailey
Q: Where in Pennsylvania in the USA did a partial nuclear meltdown occur in 1979? A: Three Mile Island
Q: What do we call the sweetmeat Rahat Lokum? A: Turkish Delight
Q: What did VAT replace in 1973? A: Purchase Tax
Q: Which common scientific term has the meaning indivisible? A: Atom
Q: Which Shakespearean character has a wife called Desdemona? A: Othello
Q: What is the study of medicines? A: Pharmacology
Q: In which American sitcom did English actress Jane Leeves play a major character? A: Frasier
Q: The Fossdyke was possibly the first to be built in Britain – what was it? A: Canal
Q: In which country is the holiday resort of Sousse? A: Tunisia
Q: Which peninsula lies to the east of the Suez Canal? A: Sinai Peninsula
Q: Which North African country has Mediterranean and Atlantic coastlines? A: Morocco
Q: What is the Southern equivalent of the Aurora Borealis? A: Aurora Australis
Q: What term is used for the agreement of two or more persons to commit an illegal act? A: Conspiracy
Q: What is a writ directed at an individual requiring him or her to attend and give evidence? A: Subpoena
Q: What is the Japanese dish of beef and vegetables in soy sauce? A: Sukiyaki
Q: What is the Italian dessert of egg yolks whipped with Marsala and sugar? A: Zabaglione
Q: Who did Jose Mourinho call ‘A specialist in failure’ because of an 8 year trophy drought? A: Arsene Wenger
Q: Which club sacked its manager after only 75 days in the job? A: Fulham
Q: On which river does the city of Leeds stand? A: Aire
Q: What is the singular form of the word candelabra? A: Candelabrum
Q: What do native Cornish residents call Penwith? A: Land’s End
Q: On a Monopoly board what makes up the set with Coventry Street and Leicester Square? A: Piccadilly
Q: Where in the body is the pineal gland? A: Brain
Q: Who played Bond Girl Domino Petachi in Never Say Never Again? A: Kim Basinger
Q: Which band sang the title song to The World Is Not Enough? A: Garbage
Q: In which movie did Bond first drive an Aston Martin DB5? A: Goldfinger
Q: Who plays the Duke of Dunstable in the new series of Blandings on BBC1? A: Harry Enfield
Q: Which Roman God was the father of Romulus and Remus? A: Mars
Q: What is the most common element in the human body after oxygen? A: Carbon
Q: Where is the ‘benthic zone’? A: Sea Bed
Q: Which type of thermometer is used for measuring very high temperatures? A: Pyrometer
Q: Which Elgar piece is dedicated ‘ to my friends pictured within’? A: Enigma Variations
Q: Who did Squeaky Fromme try to assassinate? A: Gerald Ford
Q: Which song started out as Good Morning To All? A: Happy Birthday To You
Q: Who wrote The Quare Fellow and Borstal Boy? A: Brendan Behan
Q: Which king died in 1760 and was succeeded by his grandson? A: George II
Q: Sorted for Es and Whizz? A: Pulp
Q: What is stolen in over half of the UK’s robberies? A: Mobile Phone
Q: Which great historical warrior had a dog called Peritas? A: Alexander the Great
Q: What is the name of the dog in Jerome K Jerome’s novel Three Men In A Boat? A: Montmorency
Q: Which country is currently suspended from The Commonwealth? A: Fiji
Q: Which country withdrew from the Commonwealth in 2003? A: Zimbabwe
Q: What is the study of the meaning of words? A: Semantics
Q: What kind of creatures are jacamars and barbets? A: Birds
Q: What is the study of the history and derivation of words? A: Etymology
Q: What kind of creatures are loggerheads and hawksbills? A: Turtles
Q: Bryher is part of which island group? A: Scillies
Q: Coprolite is the name given by archaeologists to fossilized ………..what? A: Faeces
Q: Which is the most malleable of all metals? A: Gold
Q: Which world-famous song was originally entitled ‘Good Morning To All’? A: Happy Birthday to You
Q: Which legendary figure refused to bow to a hat in Burglen marketplace? A: William Tell
Q: According to the old saying what is a ‘dish best eaten cold’? A: Revenge
Q: Which city is the setting for the TV crime series Scott & Bailey? A: Manchester
Q: Which light spongy dish has a name stemming from the French meaning ‘blown’? A: Souffle
Q: A babirusa is wild variety of which animal? A: Pig
Q: Where in the British Isles can the Laxey Wheel aka Lady Isabella be seen? A: Isle of Man
Q: Which town on the Isle of Mull was also the name of a Womble? A: Tobermory
Q: What is the subject of Lorraine Pascale’s BBC2 programmes? A: Cooking
Q: What term is used for chains of repeated groups of atoms e.g. DNA, proteins? A: Polymers
Q: Which band was formed in 1981 by Roland Orzabal and Curt Smith? A: Tears For Fears
Q: Which war ended with the treaty of Panmunjom? A: Korean War
Q: What is Rupert Murdoch’s real first name? A: Keith
Q: By what name is Aragorn first known to the hobbits when they meet him in Bree? A: Strider
Q: The fishing boat Orca appeared in which film? A: Jaws
Q: Which cabinet member is heir to a wallpaper fortune? A: George Osborne
Q: Who was the target of Operation Neptune Spear? A: Osama Bin Laden
Q: At Westminster what is a spad? A: Special Advisor
Q: Which member of Take That announced that he is to leave the group last month? A: Jason Orange
Q: What is the Australian National Anthem? A: Advance Australia Fair
Q: Which Cape is at the northernmost tip of the country in Queensland? A: Cape York
Q: Which creature features on the flag of Western Australia? A: Black Swan
Q: Who founded and conducted The London Symphony Orchestra? A: Sir Thomas Beecham
Q: Peter Pears was the life-long partner of which composer? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: Which Italian violinist was believed to be in league with the devil? A: Paganini
Q: Which flag was nicknamed The Stars and Bars? A: Confederate Flag
Q: Which political retreat began as Shangri-La? A: Camp David
Q: Which action painter was Jack the Dripper? A: Jackson Pollock
Q: On a computer keyboard the character that resembles an inverted V is called what? A: Caret
Q: The Gasworks Gang were which comic paper character’s sworn enemies? A: Lord Snooty
Q: Who fronted The Paramount Jazz Band? A: Acker Bilk
Q: In heraldry what colour is argent? A: Silver
Q: Who rode a horse called Binky in Terry Pratchett’s Discworld novels? A: Death
Q: What was Napoleon’s horse that he named after one of his victories? A: Marengo
Q: Which prophet rode a horse called Al Borak? A: Mohammed
Q: Who did William Hamilton try to assassinate in 1849? A: Queen Victoria
Q: Which musical features the song Sit Down You’re Rockin’ The Boat? A: Guys and Dolls
Q: Kenny Everett’s TV show introduced which sexy dance troupe? A: Hot Gossip
Q: What is the first event on Day 2 of the Decathlon? A: 110 Metres Hurdles
Q: Which island calls itself Kerkyra? A: Corfu
Q: Wallachia is a region of which country? A: Romania
Q: Which capital is on the river Manzanares? A: Madrid
Q: A mutated MC1R gene causes what physical trait? A: Red Hair
Q: Which liqueur is marked D.O.M? A: Benedictine
Q: In which French city is the HQ of Interpol? A: Lyons
Q: Which Turkish town was the birthplace of St Paul? A: Tarsus
Q: What sort of device is a ‘loupe’? A: Magnifying Lens
Q: The Four Hills is a tournament in which sport? A: Ski Jumping
Q: Who was the last King of Troy? A: Priam
Q: Which scientific principle is used in a police speed trap? A: The Doppler Effect
Q: What kind of rock is formed as a result of heat or pressure? A: Metamorphic Rock
Q: To whom did Clive Anderson say ‘Is there no beginning to your talents’? A: Jeffrey Archer
Q: Which artist did Gore Vidal describe as ‘The only genius with an I.Q. of 60’? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Who said of Mick Jagger ‘This man has child-bearing lips’? A: Joan Rivers
Q: Who played Dudley Moore’s love interest in the 1981 comedy Arthur? A: Liza Minelli
Q: What is Dorothy’s surname in The Wizard of Oz? A: Gale
Q: The 1992 film Hear My Song involves a search for which tenor? A: Josef Locke
Q: In which ocean is the archipelago of Novaya Zemlya? A: Arctic
Q: Which Caribbean island is only 11 kilometres off the Venezuelan coast? A: Trinidad
Q: What is the capital of the North Atlantic island of Bermuda? A: Hamilton
Q: Which painter was born Jacopo Comin, later changed to Jacopo Robusti? A: Tintoretto
Q: The Goddess of Protection and daughter of Ra, Bastet had the head of which creature? A: Cat
Q: What is the name of the Scottish river spirit usually appearing as a horse? A: Kelpie
Q: Which Rolls-Royce engine was fitted into the Spitfire fighter plane? A: Merlin
Q: Which luxury train which linked London and Paris was withdrawn in 1972? A: The Golden Arrow
Q: In which city are the brewers S A Brain & Son based? A: Cardiff
Q: Which Premiership football club started out as St Domingo? A: Everton
Q: Band leader Glenn Miller also played which instrument? A: Trombone
Q: In which city is Cain’s brewery situated? A: Liverpool
Q: Which Premiership football club started out as Ardwick FC? A: Manchester City
Q: Band leader Benny Goodman also played which instrument? A: Clarinet
Q: Iodine is necessary for the functioning of which gland? A: Thyroid
Q: What was Lester Piggott’s first Derby winner? A: Never Say Die
Q: Goodluck Jonathan is president of which African country? A: Nigeria
Q: After Ben Nevis which is the second highest mountain in the British Isles? A: Ben Macdhui
Q: Which French painter fractured both thigh bones in his teens leaving him deformed? A: Toulouse-Lautrec
Q: At which Grand prix circuit was Ayrton Senna killed in 1994? A: Imola
Q: What is the Italian culinary version of hors d’oeuvre? A: Antipasto
Q: Where on your body might you suffer from a whitlow? A: Finger
Q: Which is the USA’s City of Brotherly Love? A: Philadelphia
Q: Who played Oliver Barrett IV in the film Love Story? A: Ryan O’Neal
Q: Hedra Carlson played by Jennifer Jason Leigh? A: Single White Female
Q: Which famous Scotsman died aged 37 in 1796? A: Robbie Burns
Q: Which Scottish region has the highest population? A: Strathclyde
Q: Which detective of novels and TV has the aristocratic title The Earl of Asherton? A: Inspector Linley
Q: Helen Clark became the first woman Prime Minister of which country in 1999? A: New Zealand
Q: What word do citizen’s band radio enthusiasts use for the police? A: Bears
Q: In the USA an FBI agent is often called a G-Man – for what does the G stand? A: Government
Q: In population terms, what is the largest city in China? A: Shanghai
Q: Which country had a parliament called the Duma? A: Russia
Q: What is the white knee-length pleated skirt worn by men as traditional dress in Greece? A: Fustanella
Q: In which county is the Forest of Dean? A: Gloucester
Q: What was Gulliver’s first name? A: Lemuel
Q: Who are the base and deformed humanoids he meets in the land of the Houyhnhnms? A: Yahoos
Q: Which state on the Pacific seaboard lies between California and Washington? A: Oregon
Q: Which state has the lowest population? A: Wyoming
Q: Which state borders on four Great Lakes – all except Ontario? A: Michigan
Q: When Perseus slew the Medusa what sprang up out of her blood? A: Pegasus
Q: Who did Evan Davies replace in a long-running TV programme this summer? A: Jeremy Paxman
Q: In which comedy does Frances de la Tour play a secret drinking headmistress? A: Big School
Q: What do the Chinese call ‘lively or quick little fellows’? A: Chopsticks
Q: ‘Frappe’ is a term meaning served on a bed of ………..what? A: Ice
Q: On which Japanese island did the Americans take control of vital Pacific airfields in 1945? A: Iwo Jima
Q: What is the name of the Jewish candlestick with special religious meaning? A: Menorah
Q: What do Americans call a love-bite? A: A Hickey
Q: Who replaced Michael Gove as Education Minister last summer? A: Nicky Morgan
Q: Which tradesman performed most of the runaway marriages in Gretna Green? A: Blacksmith
Q: Which TV programme saw Assumpta electrocuted in the cellar? A: Ballykissangel
Q: What do the initials u.c. mean to a printer? A: Upper Case
Q: Which Australian service was founded by the Rev. John Flynn? A: Flying Doctor Service
Q: Which Belgian sportsman was nicknamed ‘The Cannibal’? A: Eddy Merckx
Q: The droppings of which British mammal are called ‘spraints’? A: Otter
Q: Leatherback and loggerhead are varieties of which creature? A: Turtle
Q: What is the term for cud-chewing animals? A: Ruminants
Q: The X and Y axes on a graph are called the abscissa and ………what? A: Ordinate
Q: What is next in this series of Fibonacci numbers – 3, 7, 10, 17, 27, 44, 71 ……? A: 115
Q: Who has appeared as a team captain on 8 Out of 10 Cats since its inception in 2005? A: Sean Lock
Q: Which World cup team are known as the Albiceleste? A: Argentina
Q: Which player top-scored and won the Golden Boot? A: James Rodriguez
Q: When women were first given the vote in 1918 how old did they have to be to receive it? A: 30
Q: Who wrote the feminist work Fear of Flying? A: Erica Jong
Q: Who is Prince Myshkin in a Dostoevsky novel? A: The Idiot
Q: What building is located at 32 London Bridge Street? A: The Shard
Q: The Iditarod from Anchorage to Nome, Alaska is a race for what? A: Dog Sleds
Q: Who did Lord Astor famously deny knowing? A: Mandy Rice-Davies
Q: Which catastrophe was caused by phytophtora infestans? A: Potato Famine
Q: Which rock legend was born on the island of Zanzibar? A: Freddy Mercury
Q: Who said ‘a single death is a tragedy, a million deaths is a statistic’? A: Joseph Stalin
Q: Who was Radio 1’s first female presenter? A: Annie Nightingale
Q: Who is the current chairman of Radio 4’s I’m Sorry I Haven’t A Clue? A: Jack Dee
Q: Which future king was created Prince of Wales in 1301? A: Edward II
Q: Which Scottish hero was executed as a traitor in 1305? A: William Wallace
Q: Who died in 1376 before he could become king? A: The Black Prince
Q: Which maker of fashionable outdoor wear was founded in Basingstoke in 1865? A: Burberry
Q: Taffeta is a variety of which material? A: Silk
Q: Who was the father of the apostles James and John? A: Zebedee
Q: Which ‘Surveyor of the Queen’s Pictures’ turned out to be the ‘fourth man’? A: Anthony Blunt
Q: Which relatively common affliction is known formally as ‘hemicrania’? A: Migraine
Q: BCG is an inoculation against what? A: Tuberculosis
Q: Which creature is considered to be the natural host of the Ebola virus? A: Fruit Bat
Q: The Gambia is entirely surrounded by which other African country? A: Senegal
Q: Which body of water represents the lowest point below sea level in Europe? A: Caspian Sea
Q: In which state is the USA’s highest mountain? A: Alaska
Q: Which English town/city did the Romans call Camulodonum? A: Colchester
Q: Who had a 1985 UK hit with West End Girls? A: Pet Shop Boys
Q: Who had a 1985 UK hit with I’m Your Man? A: Wham!
Q: Who played Thelma in the movie Thelma and Louise? A: Gina Davis
Q: Which island lies directly north of Malta? A: Sicily
Q: What kind of creature is a monitor? A: Lizard
Q: What did The Band of Hope pledge not to do? A: Drink Alcohol
Q: Which legendary Scottish town appears for just one day every 100 years? A: Brigadoon
Q: In which novel has Britain been re-named Airstrip One? A: 1984
Q: Who was the minstrel in Robin Hood’s band of men? A: Alan A Dale
Q: What is the nickname of his Symphony No.41 – considered to be his greatest? A: The Jupiter
Q: A clutter or cluster is a collection of which creepy-crawlies? A: Spiders
Q: Who played Cathy in Ken Loach’s ground-breaking drama Cathy Come Home? A: Carol White
Q: Which long-running soap was originally intended to be titled Midland Road? A: Crossroads
Q: Pimm’s No.1 is based on which spirit? A: Gin
Q: Which English bridge was the world’s longest suspension bridge from 1981 to 1998? A: Humber Bridge
Q: Where in England could you cross the Mathematical Bridge? A: Cambridge
Q: Vanessa Redgrave plays a sexually repressed nun who causes big trouble for a priest? A: The Devils
Q: The first Garden City was established in 1903 – which was it? A: Letchworth
Q: Who has ‘terrible tusks and terrible claws and terrible teeth in his terrible jaws’? A: The Gruffalo
Q: Which common flavouring is obtained primarily from a Mexican variety of orchid? A: Vanilla
Q: Some children suffer from ADD – what is this? A: Attention Deficit Disorder
Q: Which football team ended Glasgow Celtic’s 10-month unbeaten league run? A: Aberdeen
Q: Active since 1977, Which unit is the only official US Army Counter-Terrorism force? A: Delta Force
Q: Which is the only New York borough on the US mainland? A: The Bronx
Q: Central Park is in which borough? A: Manhattan
Q: In Lancashire someone is ‘skrikin’ – what are they doing? A: Crying
Q: On which river does Norwich stand? A: Wensum
Q: In the expression ‘By Jove’ – who is Jove? A: Jupiter
Q: What is the every-day name for the condition Daltonism? A: Colour Blindness
Q: Gertrude Ederle in August 1926 was the first woman to do what? A: Swim the Channel
Q: What calls MPs in the House of Commons to vote? A: Division Bell
Q: Who went ‘Beyond Breaking Point’ in a Sport Relief challenge in March? A: Davina McCall
Q: Mariachi bands originated in which country? A: Mexico
Q: What were the V-1 rockets nicknamed by the man in the street during the Blitz? A: Doodle-Bugs
Q: Who produced the V12 powered Miura – the fastest production car around in the 1970s? A: Lamborghini
Q: Villa Park in 1999 was the scene of the very last ….what? A: Cup Winner’s Cup Final
Q: Which river has the world’s largest delta? A: Ganges
Q: In which North American river are the Thousand Islands? A: St Lawrence
Q: At which city do the Blue and White Niles meet? A: Khartoum
Q: Which recent ITV three-part drama was based on real-life wife killer Malcolm Webster? A: The Widower
Q: The BBC satire W1A starring Hugh Bonneville is a follow-up to which show? A: Twenty Twelve
Q: What is the study of reptiles called? A: Herpetology
Q: USAF Boeing VC-25 is also known as what when Barack Obama is on board? A: Air Force One
Q: What region did Khrushchev gift to Ukraine in 1954? A: Crimea
Q: In alchemy what was Aqua Fortis? A: Nitric Acid
Q: Halophytes are plants adapted to growing in which conditions? A: Salty
Q: Who is the current Secretary of State for Transport? A: Patrick McLoughlin
Q: Which English king is buried in Worcester Cathedral? A: King John
Q: St Mungo’s Cathedral is situated in which British city? A: Glasgow
Q: Ninevah was the capital of which ancient empire? A: Assyrian
Q: Who defeated the Spartans and their allies at Thermopylae in 480 BC? A: Persians
Q: Steve Martin and Martin Short were two of The Three Amigos – who was the other? A: Chevy Chase
Q: A Shot In The Dark was the follow-up to which successful 1963 comedy? A: The Pink Panther
Q: What type of cat can be Classic, Mackerel, Spotted or Ticked? A: Tabby Cat
Q: What do we call the lake that the Germans call Bodensee? A: Lake Constance
Q: The US city of Milwaukee stands on which lake? A: Michigan
Q: The Folketing is which country’s parliament? A: Denmark
Q: In which book did Miss Marple first appear? A: Murder At The Vicarage
Q: Which Asian country has the Kip as its currency? A: Laos
Q: The Riksdag is which country’s parliament? A: Sweden
Q: In which book did Hercule Poirot first appear? A: The Mysterious Affair At Styles
Q: Who dedicated his Kreutzer Sonata to a violinist who refused to play it? A: Beethoven
Q: Which of the nine rooms in ‘Cluedo’ contains the fewest letters in its name? A: The HALL
Q: What part of a bird might also be a term for a magistrate? A: BEAK
Q: Which four-letter word means ‘the prong of a fork’? A: TINE
Q: ‘Hey, Jude’ topped the charts in 1968. Who was ‘Jude’? A: JULIAN LENNON
Q: Which chemical element takes its name from the Greek for a shade of green? A: CHLORINE
Q: ‘To His Coy Mistress’ is the most famous work of which of the metaphysical poets? A: ANDREW MARVELL
Q: ‘Bootsie and Snudge’ was a spin-off from which successful comedy series? A: THE ARMY GAME
Q: In ‘Coronation Street’, what was the name of Minnie Caldwell’s cat? A: BOBBY
Q: In ‘The Blue Lamp’, who plays the young villain who shoots George Dixon? A: DIRK BOGARDE
Q: Which 1930 film instantly catapulted Marlene Dietrich to international stardom? A: The BLUE ANGEL
Q: Classical. Who composed ‘Carnival of the Animals’ in 1886? A: Camille SAINT-SAENS
Q: Who famously said: “Most of our people have never had it so good”? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: Who was the housekeeper in Daphne Du Maurier’s novel ‘Rebecca’? A: MRS. DANVERS
Q: How many medals, and of what colour, did Rebecca Adlington win in the 2008 Olympics? A: TWO GOLD
Q: In 1946, what useful gadget was invented by Percy Spencer? A: MICROWAVE OVEN
Q: What word refers to liquid absorption, as by plants through their roots? A: OSMOSIS
Q: Who was British Chancellor of the Exchequer at the start of this century? A: GORDON BROWN
Q: Who was the next leader of the Soviet Union after Kruschev? A: Leonid BREZHNEV
Q: What do the initials of the charity P.D.S.A. represent? A: PEOPLE’S DISPENSARY FOR
Q: Who invented the seed drill in 1701? A: JETHRO TULL
Q: What was the name of the vicar in ‘Dad’s Army’? A: TIMOTHY FARTHING
Q: What is the French word for ‘cunning, trickery, craftiness’? A: FINESSE
Q: What is the Welsh word for ‘welcome’? A: CROESO
Q: In the strip cartoon ‘Peanuts’, Schroeder prefers to play the work of which composer? A: BEETHOVEN
Q: The President of the USA fired General MacArthur in April. Who was the President? A: Harry TRUMAN
Q: In December, which former Italian colony declared independence in Africa? A: LIBYA
Q: What completes a set with Fleet Street and Trafalgar Square? A: THE STRAND
Q: In which river was Jesus baptized by John the Baptist? A: JORDAN
Q: Who was the father of James and John, and the probable husband of Salome? A: ZEBEDEE
Q: Who got to no. 5 in the UK singles chart with ‘Hungry Like the Wolf’ in 1982? A: DURAN DURAN
Q: Anatomy. What is the more scientific name for the breastbone? A: STERNUM
Q: What nationality was the noted astronomer Anders Celsius? A: SWEDISH
Q: Who was admitted to Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas, as ‘Patient 24740, white male’? A: JOHN F. KENNEDY
Q: What word describes an area of open water separated from the open sea by a coral reef? A: LAGOON
Q: Carats measure the purity of gold. What does the same for pearls? A: GRAINS
Q: Before going solo, Belinda Carlisle was lead singer with which all-girl group? A: GO-GOS
Q: What is the heraldic word for red? A: GULES
Q: In which 1917 film does a tramp become a policeman and tame the local bully? A: EASY STREET
Q: “There’s a row going on, down in Slough” is a line from which no. 3 hit from 1979? A: ETON RIFLES
Q: In science, what adjective describes a reaction in which heat is absorbed? A: ENDOTHERMIC
Q: Who composed the opera ‘Peter Grimes’? A: Benjamin BRITTEN
Q: What was the real name of the romantic hero ‘The Scarlet Pimpernel’? A: Sir Percy BLAKENEY
Q: In ‘Treasure Island’, who was the captain of the Hispaniola? A: Captain SMOLLETT
Q: What do Americans call the item of clothing we call ‘braces’? A: SUSPENDERS
Q: Trichology is the study of what? A: HAIR
Q: Who is the mother of Kate Hudson? A: Goldie HAWN
Q: Roy Jenkins took the title of Lord Jenkins of … where? A: HILLHEAD
Q: Which famous art collection was started by the fourth Marquess of Hartford? A: WALLACE
Q: After a 1952 film, who became known as ‘the million-dollar mermaid’? A: Esther WILLIAMS
Q: Which activity is sometimes called sailboarding or boardsailing? A: WINDSURFING
Q: Which country was once known as Portuguese West Africa? A: ANGOLA
Q: What is a synonym for a rich tapestry or wall-hanging? A: ARRAS
Q: Who starred in the title role of ‘The Admirable Crichton’ in a 1957 film? A: Kenneth MORE
Q: In which country is chicken frequently served in a chocolate sauce? A: MEXICO
Q: In 1978, who was assassinated by a poisoned umbrella tip on a London street? A: Georgi MARKOV
Q: What one-word name is given to the Russian dish of stuffed pancakes? A: BLINI
Q: Which former king won a gold medal for yachting at the 1960 Olympics? A: CONSTANTINE
Q: What name is given to the Irish dish of potato and cabbage, sometimes served as a stew? A: COLCANNON
Q: In which event did Nero participate in the ancient Olympics, circa AD 60? A: CHARIOT RACING
Q: In which country is the Patagonian Desert? A: ARGENTINA
Q: What was the last film directed by David Lean, cast included Peggy Ashcroft & Judy Davis? A: A Passage To India
Q: What was Stanley Kubrick's last film, which starred Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman? A: Eyes Wide Shut
Q: 'Go ahead, make my day' is a catchphrase from which 1983 film? A: Sudden Impact
Q: In 1994 who became only the second actor to win successive Best Actor ‘Oscars’? A: Tom Hanks
Q: In which war film is John Wayne's character killed by a Japanese sniper? A: Sands Of Iwo Jima
Q: Which blond actor who died in 2008 played Jim Bowie in the 1960 film 'The Alamo'? A: Richard Widmark
Q: France signed the Treaty of Luneville with which continental European Power? A: Austria
Q: Which was King Arthur’s last battle, where he either died or was fatally wounded? A: Camlann
Q: Also known as Annonaria; in Roman mythology, who was the personification of luck? A: Fortuna
Q: 'The Trumpet Hornpipe' was its signature tune, who was this TV show’s title character? A: Captain Horatio Pugwash
Q: Which character did the diminutive John Louis Mansi play in the TV series ''Allo 'Allo'? A: Von Smallhausen
Q: Which ace nicknamed ‘Dogsbody’ was a prisoner in Colditz as WW2 came to an end? A: Douglas Bader
Q: Which German Ace gave his name to two classic flying manoeuvres, involving ‘turns’? A: Max Immelmann
Q: In which county is Clacton-on-Sea? A: Essex
Q: In which county are Hailes Abbey, Sudeley Castle and Berkeley Castle? A: Gloucestershire
Q: Which group, 'one hit wonders', topped the UK charts in 1976 with 'Mississippi'? A: Pussycat
Q: Which of the world's seas has no shoreline but lots of seaweed? A: Sargasso sea
Q: In which country will you find the Negev desert? A: Israel
Q: Which Frenchman won the Alpine triple-crown at the 1968 Winter Olympics? A: Jean Claude Killy
Q: In the context of food, Eccles in Lancashire is famous for what? A: Cakes
Q: Which former EastEnders actor was once married to Colleen Nolan of The Nolans? A: Shane Ritchie
Q: Which popular, free computer operating system owes its existence to Linus Torvalds? A: Linux
Q: In the UK, what is the value of the letter P in Scrabble? A: 3
Q: Kept in many schools, in which landlocked Asian country did the Gerbil originate? A: Mongolia
Q: Which 1993 Disney film starred Bette Midler and Sarah Jessica Parker as witches? A: Hocus Pocus
Q: Ruby Catherine Stevens first became famous in the 1930s under which name? A: Barbara Stanwyck
Q: Whose music looms large in the novel (and its film version) 'A Clockwork Orange'? A: Ludwig van Beethoven
Q: Which hot drink did J S Bach enjoy so much he wrote a cantata for it? A: Coffee
Q: In 1643 Evangalista Torichelli invented the world's first what? A: Barometer
Q: Who invented the first safety razor in 1895? A: King Camp Gillette
Q: What is the capital city of Sicily? A: Palermo
Q: What is the state capital of New Jersey? A: Trenton
Q: Whom did a jealous Athena turn into a spider? A: Arachne
Q: Who was the beautiful sister of the twins Castor and Pollux and mother to Hermione? A: Helen of Troy
Q: Jocasta was the wife of Laius and the mother of which other famous individual? A: Oedipus
Q: In the 'Eagle', who was Dan Dare's greatest enemy? A: Mekon
Q: As leader of the Teen Titans, ‘Robin’ aka Dick Grayson took on which other identity? A: Nightwing
Q: Joe Shlabotnik is which fictional character's favourite (and also fictional) baseball player? A: Charlie Brown
Q: The title of whose best-known book translates into English as 'My Struggle'? A: Adolf Hitler
Q: According to his business card, the gangster Al Capone dealt in what? A: Used Furniture
Q: Agrippina married her uncle, later having him poisoned. Which Roman Emperor was he? A: Claudius
Q: Besides Agatha Christie who is the most widely translated English author? A: Shakespeare
Q: In 1934, who wrote 'The Thin Man'? A: Dashiell Hammett
Q: Who was the author of 'Gulliver's Travels'? A: Jonathon Swift
Q: Who wrote the stories 'Billy Budd' and 'Moby Dick'? A: Herman Melville
Q: Who was nicknamed 'Queen of the Blues', but was later elevated to 'Empress'? A: Bessie Smith
Q: Who famously set James Thomson's poem, 'Rule, Britannia' to music? A: Thomas Arne
Q: Whose estranged wife Ingrid was granted a 'quickie divorce' at London's High Court? A: Chris Tarrant
Q: Which Indian 'Celebrity' thanked Tony Blair for his support during her torrid time on TV? A: Shilpa Shetty
Q: At the beginning of a game of chess, which pieces are found on b1, b8, g1 and g8? A: Knights
Q: Which poker variant features cards referred to as 'the flop' or 'the river'? A: Texas Hold Em
Q: Now at 38 St Mary Axe, London, which ‘exchange’ started in a coffee house in 1744? A: Baltic Exchange
Q: Arranged alphabetically, which would be the first book of the Old Testament? A: Amos
Q: Arranged alphabetically, which would the last book of the Old Testament? A: Zephaniah
Q: By what other name is La Giaconda much better known? A: Mona Lisa
Q: Between 1901 and 1904 Which painter’s career was described as his 'Blue period' ? A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Which 17th century Dutch painter did the forger Hans van Meegeren most often copy? A: Jan Vermeer
Q: Which psychological response is seen in the way some hostages react to their captors? A: Stockholm Syndrome
Q: Based on real events, which 2005 film earned Steven Spielberg his 6th Oscar nomination? A: Munich
Q: Which Oscar winner played the title role in the 1964 Hollywood film 'The Pawnbroker'? A: Rod Steiger
Q: He died in 1965, who has a statue in Dockwray Square, North Shields (erected in 1989)? A: Stan Laurel
Q: Which order in the class Insecta includes the butterflies, skippers, and moths? A: Lepidoptera
Q: Broccoli belongs to which family of plants? A: Brassica
Q: What 1-word name is used as an alternative for the creature also called 'Snow Leopard'? A: Ounce
Q: Which animal can you find in a shallow depression or flattened, grass nest called a 'form'? A: Hare
Q: Which festival in the Western Church gave its name to a bay and city of S.W. Texas? A: Corpus Christi
Q: Who was the famous mother of politician Shirley Williams? A: Vera Brittain
Q: Whom did both Debbie Reynolds and Elizabeth Taylor marry? A: Eddie Fisher
Q: What was the name of William Wordsworth's sister? A: Dorothy
Q: The 'Giant's Causeway' and nearby Bushmills, famed for its distillery are in which county? A: Antrim
Q: Which Yorkshire city has two city-centre railway stations, Kirkgate and Westgate? A: Wakefield
Q: At the Kennington Oval in 1872, who did Wanderers beat in the very first FA Cup final? A: Royal Engineers
Q: Built in 1776, which T was the name of the first submarine used for military purposes? A: Turtle
Q: On what material was the Mona Lisa painted? A: Poplar Wood
Q: Which 1980 historical novel is narrated by a young Benedictine monk, Adso of Melk? A: The Name Of The Rose
Q: Which late, regular on Radio 4's 'Just a Minute' had served as Liberal MP for Isle of Ely? A: Clement Freud
Q: Which regular on Radio 4's 'Just a Minute' has served as Tory MP for the City of Chester? A: Giles Brandreth
Q: Which animal forms the body of the great sphinx of Giza in Egypt? A: Lion
Q: Who sang the theme for the James Bond film ‘Thunderball’? A: TOM JONES
Q: According to Coleridge, where did Kubla Khan decree his pleasure dome? A: XANADU
Q: What is the minimum number of smaller cubes required to make a larger cube? A: EIGHT
Q: What is Stephen Fry’s nickname for the researchers/writers on the tv programme ‘Q.I.’? A: ELVES
Q: For what profession did Mahatma Ghandi train? A: LAWYER
Q: What was the four-word title of Katrina and the Waves’ winning entry in 1997? A: LOVE SHINE A LIGHT
Q: Flight-lieutenant Jerry Rawlings ruled which African country from 1981-2001? A: GHANA
Q: Who was King of Scotland from 1040-1057? A: MACBETH
Q: Who wrote the 1924 adventure novel ‘Beau Geste’? A: P.C. WREN
Q: What is the name of Pip’s brother-in-law in ‘Great Expectations’? A: JOE GARGERY
Q: What is the full surname of the title character in ‘Goodbye, Mr. Chips’? A: MR. CHIPPING
Q: Who has been praised for his portrayal of the gay Barton Scully in ‘Masters of Sex’? A: BEAU BRIDGES
Q: Which group had a no.5 hit with ‘Arms of Mary’ in 1976? A: SUTHERLAND BROTHERS AND
Q: What two letters can be added to the end of ‘loch’ to make a term for a small, inland lake? A: -AN
Q: Which Scottish loch is closely associated with kippers? A: Loch FYNE
Q: Which resort town is known as ‘The gateway to the isles’? A: OBAN
Q: Who wrote the poem ‘The Village Blacksmith’, in 1840? A: Henry W. LONGFELLOW
Q: The Women’s Institute was founded in which country? A: CANADA
Q: What nationality was the referee in the World Cup final? A: SWISS
Q: Who got to no.2 in the charts in 2002 with ‘Cry Me a River’? A: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE
Q: After the assassination of Rasputin, his body was thrown into what river? A: NEVA
Q: ‘Hey, Big Spender’ comes from which musical? A: SWEET CHARITY
Q: In the metric system, the unit prefix ‘mega’ denotes a factor of what? A: A MILLION
Q: In which city were the 1988 summer Olympics held? A: SEOUL
Q: If you are suffering from myalgia, what part/parts of your body is/are affected? A: MUSCLES
Q: Which bird flies the greatest distance to migrate? (Two words.) A: ARCTIC TERN
Q: Which bird’s song is said to sound like “A little bit of bread and no cheese”? A: YELLOWHAMMER
Q: Who directed ‘Alien 3’ (1992), ‘Fight Club’ (1999) and ‘The Social Network’ (2010)? A: DAVID FINCHER
Q: Who stars as the suicidal alcoholic in the 1995 film, ‘Leaving Las Vegas’? A: NICOLAS CAGE
Q: Which former politician has been dubbed ‘Doris Karloff’? A: ANN WIDDECOMBE
Q: What Italian dish is made with fried beaten eggs, resembling a Spanish omelette? A: FRITTATA
Q: In a well-known nursery rhyme, who has “silver buckles at his knee”? A: BOBBY SHAFTO
Q: What is the name of the TOWIE star who was reported missing at the end of August? A: JAMES ARGENT
Q: What sort of creature is the water moccasin? A: SNAKE
Q: What was the name of the British family who adopted Paddington Bear? A: BROWN
Q: Which band took the Floral Dance to no.2 in the charts in 1977? A: BRIGHOUSE AND RASTRICK
Q: Who gave birth to Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily in 1996? A: PAULA YATES
Q: What was the favourite food of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles? A: PIZZA
Q: Which of Henry VIII’s wives had twice been widowed when they married? A: KATHARINE PARR
Q: In which magazine were the Sherlock Holmes stories first published? A: THE STRAND
Q: What is the full, four-word name of the Statue of Liberty? A: LIBERTY ENLIGHTENING THE
Q: In 2002, the statue of whom was given its first wash since 1873 at its Florence gallery? A: DAVID
Q: Who played the part of Raquel in ‘Only Fools and Horses’? A: TESSA PEAKE-JONES
Q: In which 1976 film does Laurence Olivier play dentist Dr. Christian Szell? A: MARATHON MAN
Q: Which Japanese island is missing – Kyushu, Shikoku, Honshu, and …. ? A: HOKKAIDO
Q: Which N. Wales town has a courthouse, built in 1614, a castle, and a disused jail? A: BEAUMARIS
Q: Which planet takes the equivalent of 11.86 Earth years to orbit the sun? A: JUPITER
Q: A deciduous tree of the genus Betula is more commonly known as what? A: BIRCH
Q: Where on the human body would you locate the carpal bones? A: WRIST
Q: Pat Nevin was a favourite at which London association football club in the 1980s? A: CHELSEA
Q: In a 2014 Classic FM poll, which Vaughan Williams piece was voted the UK’s favourite? A: The LARK ASCENDING
Q: What number Beethoven symphony includes ‘Ode to Joy’ in its final movement? A: NINTH
Q: What was the first forename of the German composer Herr Orff? A: CARL
Q: In 1978, who released her debut album ‘The Kick Inside’? A: KATE BUSH
Q: The first what in the UK took place on the night of Nov. 19th, 1994? A: NATIONAL LOTTERY DRAW
Q: Since 1999, which manufacturer has won Le Mans on all but two occasions? A: AUDI
Q: The Bruins ice hockey team and the Celtics basketball team are based in which US city? A: BOSTON
Q: What is the UK’s best-selling car of all time? A: FORD FIESTA
Q: How old was River Phoenix when he died? A: 23
Q: What word connects heather to a member of the cod family? A: LING
Q: In ‘Lovejoy’, what was the occupation of the title character? A: ANTIQUES DEALER
Q: What letter is used the most often in English language and literature? A: E
Q: In which sport did Greg and Johnny Searle win a gold medal at Barcelona in 1992? A: ROWING
Q: What was the name of the skunk in Disney’s version of Bambi? A: FLOWER
Q: Who married Amal Alamuddin on September 29th 2014? A: GEORGE CLOONEY
Q: In ‘Hamlet’, what was the name of the title character’s mother? A: GERTRUDE
Q: In a nursery rhyme, who “came down too soon, and asked his way to Norwich”? A: The MAN IN THE MOON
Q: What part did Clark Gable play in ‘Gone With The Wind’? A: RHETT BUTLER
Q: In which 2006 film did he play the part of Theodore Roosevelt? A: NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM
Q: Which state of the USA lies between South Carolina and Florida? A: GEORGIA
Q: Which English town or city lies on the rivers, Eden, Caldew, and Petteril? A: CARLISLE
Q: The sitcom ‘Roseanne’ was a hit that ran for nine seasons. What was the family surname? A: CONNOR
Q: In 1066, on which hill did Harold deploy his troops for the Battle of Hastings? A: SENLAC
Q: A pier at which resort was badly damaged by fire on July 30th? A: EASTBOURNE
Q: Which country were runners-up to Germany in the association football World Cup? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Who famously lived to regret saying “You can’t win anything with kids”? A: ALAN HANSEN
Q: What name is given to the home of an otter? A: HOLT
Q: What is the chemical formula for calcium chloride? A: CaCl2
Q: Greta Garbo uttered her most famous line in ‘Grand Hotel’ (1932). What was it? A: I WANT TO BE ALONE
Q: If a pair of adult shoes are European size 42, what is their British equivalent? A: 8
Q: From which country did Madagascar gain independence in 1960? A: FRANCE
Q: Floated earlier this year, Saga started with one hotel in which town? A: FOLKSTONE
Q: On which pop hit classic did Bob Holness famously not play the sax solo? A: BAKER STREET
Q: Mama Cass did not choke to death by eating what? (Two words.) A: HAM SANDWICH
Q: In 2009, which judge on ‘Strictly Come Dancing’ was told to Foxtrot Oscar? A: ARLENE PHILLIPS
Q: Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman co-starred in which 1995 film? A: SEVEN
Q: In the 2013 Oscar ceremony, which film won the most awards, with four? A: LIFE OF PI
Q: With which type of foodstuff do you associate the name of Levi Roots? A: REGGAE REGGAE sauce
Q: In Gilbert and Sullivan’s ‘The Mikado’, with whom is Nanki-Poo in love? A: YUM YUM
Q: Which noun, often used in drug testing, comes from the Latin for “I shall please”? A: PLACEBO
Q: ‘Love Fool’ was the first UK Top 10 hit for which group, in 1997? A: THE CARDIGANS
Q: A type of cancer arising from the melanocyte cells of the skin is known as what? A: MALIGNANT MELANOMA
Q: Which historic Derbyshire building is said to be ‘more glass than wall’? A: HARDWICK HALL
Q: In ‘The Big Bang Theory’, what are Amy’s other names? A: FARRAH FOWLER
Q: After a row over her expenses claims, who resigned as Culture Secretary in April 2014? A: MARIA MILLER
Q: Which retro film character frequently referred to his ‘Number One son’ in his films? A: CHARLIE CHAN
Q: With which song did Pharrell Williams top the charts in ten countries in 2013? A: HAPPY
Q: Whose real name is revealed to be Oscar Diggs, in a 2013 prequel to a 1939 film? A: THE WIZARD OF OZ
Q: What is the name of the orphan girl raised by Miss Havisham in ‘Great Expectations’? A: ESTELLA
Q: Which noted French writer lived in exile in the Channel Islands from 1855-1870? A: VICTOR HUGO
Q: The ‘A’ represents ‘Amyotrophic’. For what do the L and the S stand? A: LATERAL SCLEROSIS
Q: Which former US President accepted the challenge on August 21st? A: GEORGE W. BUSH
Q: Which Canadian/US actress declined the challenge because of ALS’s testing on animals? A: PAMELA ANDERSON
Q: What is the first name of Bottom, in ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’? A: NICK
Q: In one of Terry Gilliam’s animations, which part of Conrad Poohs’ anatomy could dance? A: TEETH
Q: In London on August 26th, which pop singer performed live for the first time in 35 years? A: KATE BUSH
Q: In 1968, in which city was Malcolm Nash hit for six sixes in an over by Gary Sobers? A: SWANSEA
Q: Which British general captured Quebec in 1759, but lost his life in the battle? A: WOLFE
Q: Who got to no.3 in the charts in 1972 with ‘You’re So Vain’? A: CARLY SIMON
Q: Which Italian word meaning ‘little book’ is applied to the text of an opera? A: LIBRETTO
Q: Who was the bridesmaid at Dame Edna Everage’s wedding? A: MADGE ALLSOP
Q: Who was the serving President of the USA in 1976? A: GERALD FORD
Q: What two colours can be seen on the flag of the Islamic State, previously known as Isis? A: BLACK and WHITE
Q: In what decade did Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, leave Eton? A: 1970s
Q: Market Drayton and Church Stretton are towns in which English county? A: SHROPSHIRE
Q: Which Pope was inaugurated in 1978? A: JOHN PAUL II
Q: Who was ‘The voice of the soccer results’, who passed away in August 2014, aged 78? A: JAMES ALEXANDER GORDON
Q: What is the name of the biological study of fungi in all its forms? A: MYCOLOGY
Q: The science and study of most aspects of wine and winemaking is known as what? A: OENOLOGY
Q: What type of fish is used in the Scottish dish ‘Cullen Skink’? A: HADDOCK
Q: In the popular folk song, from which port did the Irish Rover set sail? A: CORK
Q: What was the first name of Regency fashion icon Beau Brummell? A: GEORGE
Q: Elvis Costello’s father wrote and sang the jingle for an ad featuring which product? A: R. WHITE’S lemonade
Q: What was the first name of Mr. Bond, elder brother of the fictional James? A: HENRY
Q: In the 1970s, ‘I Can’t Let Maggie Go’ was the soundtrack for an ad for which product? A: NIMBLE bread
Q: What is the fourth planet from the sun, in our solar system? A: MARS
Q: Who composed ‘The Hungarian Rhapsodies’? A: Franz LISZT
Q: Genu is the Latin name for what part of the human body? A: The Knee
Q: Which city hosted the 1964 summer Olympics? A: Tokyo
Q: Who wrote the book A Farewell to Arms? A: Ernest Hemmingway
Q: In which county is Luton? A: Bedfordshire
Q: What was the first fully computer generated film? A: Toy Story
Q: Name the Caribbean island country which is named after a day of the week? A: Dominica
Q: The Phantom Punch or The Punch That Never Was cost who his title? A: Sonny Liston
Q: Born 1923, which Champion had the shortest reach? A: Rocky Marciano
Q: What did Terry Scott’s lovely brother put in grandma’s tea? A: Shampoo
Q: Whose followers are Timid Toad, Reckless Rat, Artful Owl and Batty Bat? A: Captain Beaky
Q: Which tennis player was called Muscles? A: Ken Rosewall
Q: What was the pirate Blackbeard’s real name? A: Edward Teach
Q: Where did the failed US backed landing in Cuba take place in 1961? A: The Bay of Pigs
Q: Which famous play was set in Elsinor? A: Hamlet
Q: Which English king was married to Henrietta Maria? A: Charles I
Q: What did Demi Moore remove to play the role of G.I. Jane? A: Her Hair
Q: Chess Champion Bobby Fischer ended his days exiled on which island? A: Iceland
Q: Which novelist was exiled to Jersey and then Guernsey? A: Victor Hugo
Q: Who assumed the title of Richard IV? A: Perkin Warbeck
Q: Which county is most associated with Jack Cade? A: Kent
Q: Who won the 2013 World Super Bike Championship? A: Tom Sykes
Q: Name the country which ruled Burundi after Germany? A: Belgium
Q: Where on Prince Edward Island, Canada, is Anne of Green Gables located? A: Avonlea
Q: What is the state capital of Mississippi? A: Jackson
Q: Who was the World’s first Christian martyr? A: St Stephen
Q: What type of creature is a mugger? A: Crocodile
Q: Who is the Greek Goddess of the Rainbow? A: Iris
Q: What does the word Islam mean? A: Submission
Q: The Chinese New Year has just occurred, what is it the year of? A: The Horse
Q: Who was the first Mayor of Casterbridge in the Thomas Hardy novel? A: Michael Henchard
Q: Bi is the chemical symbol for which element? A: Bismuth
Q: Who played John Christie in 1960’s film 10, Rillington Place? A: Richard Attenborough
Q: In the film The Dirty Dozen, which actor played Samson Posey? A: Clint Walker
Q: In the sitcom Terry and June, what was the title characters surname? A: Medford
Q: In Hi De Hi who was Peggy’s never seen supervisor? A: Miss Cathcart
Q: Ignoring Cardiff (not difficult), which capital city is closest to London? A: Brussels
Q: Which car maker produces the Altea? A: Seat
Q: The Citigo is manufactured by which car maker? A: Skoda
Q: Who currently coaches England’s women team? A: Mark Sampson
Q: Brazil are hosting the next World Cup but who is their coach? A: Phil Scolari
Q: Who played the role of Ashley Wilkes in Gone With The Wind? A: Leslie Howard
Q: Who wrote the novel A Town Like Alice? A: Nevil Shute
Q: Which member of Abba is not Swedish? A: Anni-frid
Q: Which many headed monster was slain by Hercules? A: The Hydra
Q: If you ate the fruit of a Malus tree what would you be eating? A: An Apple
Q: Spanish Bayonet and Adam’s Needle are types of which household plant? A: The Yucca
Q: Who was Hitler’s private secretary between 1943 and 1945? A: Martin Bormann
Q: Appointed Feb 1942, Who was Minister for War Production and Armaments? A: Albert Speer
Q: Which Admiral was responsible for restoring the German navy between 1939 and 1943? A: Admiral Raeder
Q: Who played Andy McNab in the BBC dramatisation of Bravo Two Zero? A: Sean Bean
Q: Who wrote The Little House on the Prairie? A: Laura Ingalls Wilder
Q: Formula 1, which team was Jim Clarke mostly associated? A: Lotus
Q: Who won the 2013 World Touring Car Championship? A: Yvan Muller
Q: In 2014 Carl Crutchlow will ride what make of Moto GP bike? A: Ducati
Q: Who was displaced from power by Fidel Castro? A: Batista
Q: In which East European country did the 2006 Jeans revolution take place? A: Belarus
Q: Which saint was born at Lourdes ? A: Bernadette
Q: Papworth is in which county ? A: Cambridgeshire
Q: Who topped the UK charts in 1977 with ‘Yes, Sir, I Can Boogie’? A: BACCARA
Q: The vegetable we call chicory is known as what in the USA? A: ENDIVE
Q: In which 1971 film did Clint Eastwood play the d.j., and Jessica Walter the disturbed fan? A: PLAY MISTY FOR ME
Q: TV. Which TV family lives at 0001 Cemetery Lane? A: The ADDAMS FAMILY
Q: Darts. What is the lowest score not possible to score with one dart? A: 23
Q: Who wrote the famous children’s book ‘Heidi’, published in 1880? A: JOHANNA SPYRI
Q: D.A.T.T. is what alternative name for bar skittles, or table skittles? A: DEVIL AMONG THE TAILORS
Q: In 1980, who briefly joined her family band Clannad, before leaving to perform solo? A: ENYA
Q: Aka zinc blende, and consisting largely of zinc sulphide, what is the chief ore of zinc? A: SPHALERITE
Q: Which country has two stacked triangles as its flag? A: NEPAL
Q: In 1988, who became the first woman elected to serve a Muslim state? A: BENAZIR BHUTTO
Q: Who was sacked as Cardiff City manager on December 27th, 2013? A: MALKY MACKAY
Q: Who played the title character in ‘Father, Dear Father’ (1968 – 1973)? A: PATRICK CARGILL
Q: Since 2009, who has played Lee Mack’s character’s father in ‘Not Going Out’? A: BOBBY BALL
Q: Trains on which line were suspended in January, after wet concrete flooded a control room? A: VICTORIA
Q: Camden Town, Edgware and Burnt Oak are all on which line? A: NORTHERN
Q: On Nov. 7th 2013, what landmark did A.P. McCoy reach, in terms of number of winners? A: 4,000
Q: When formed in 1865, the Christian Mission was the original name of what organisation? A: SALVATION ARMY
Q: Which popular sport was once known as ‘sphairistike’? A: Lawn TENNIS
Q: With which 1750 poem do you associate the village of Stoke Poges, Buckinghamshire? A: GRAY’S ‘ELEGY Written in a
Q: On February 7th, in which English town or city was a statue of Charles Dickens unveiled? A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: Which of the presidents depicted on the Mt. Rushmore Memorial was the last to be born? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: What sort of creature is a hoopoe? A: BIRD
Q: By land area, what is the largest country in Central America? A: NICARAGUA
Q: What was on the flipside of Jasper Carrott’s ‘Funky Moped’? A: MAGIC ROUNDABOUT
Q: Which beast did Hera raise to kill Hercules, but ended up being slain by him? A: Lernaean HYDRA
Q: What type of fruit was involved in his Twelve Labours? A: APPLES
Q: What relation was George III to George II? A: GRANDSON
Q: A group of which type of birds is known as an exaltation? A: LARKS
Q: Near which small town in Berkshire was the Royal Military Academy founded in 1799? A: SANDHURST
Q: What word describes a triangle where all three sides are of different lengths? A: SCALENE
Q: What sort of animal was the invisible Harvey, in the 1950 film of that name? A: RABBIT
Q: What famous event took place on December 16th, 1773? A: BOSTON TEA PARTY
Q: Who was King George IV’s mother? A: Queen CHARLOTTE
Q: In WW II, in what year did these battles take place: Luzon, Halbe, Trieste and Okinawa? A: 1945
Q: What were the first names of the hugely wealthy J.P. Getty, 1932-2003? A: JOHN PAUL
Q: Which English author, 1707- 1754, was also a J.P. (Justice of the Peace)? A: HENRY FIELDING
Q: Who wrote ‘The Solitary Reaper’ (1805) and ‘The World Is Too Much With Us’ (1802)? A: William WORDSWORTH
Q: In his poem ‘If’, what does Kipling describe as ‘those two impostors’? A: TRIUMPH and DISASTER
Q: Who co-starred with Eric Idle in the 1990 film ‘Nuns on the Run’? A: ROBBIE COLTRANE
Q: Who tripped as she went up to receive the Best Actress Oscar last year? A: JENNIFER LAWRENCE
Q: What is the name of Edina’s son in ‘Absolutely Fabulous’? A: SERGE Turtle
Q: What is the name of Hyacinth and Richard’s son in ‘Keeping Up Appearances’? A: SHERIDAN
Q: Which A.B. won the Best Picture Oscar at the 2000 ceremony? A: AMERICAN BEAUTY
Q: Which was the only Elvis Presley UK no. 1 to have a one-word title? A: SURRENDER
Q: In which country are the Papal guards recruited? A: Switzerland
Q: What emblem was adopted in 1991 as a symbol of AIDS awareness? (2 word answer) A: Red Ribbon
Q: In which month does St Swithin's day fall? A: July
Q: The 25th January is the day of the year on which Scots celebrate which national hero? A: Robert Burns
Q: In which country can you see the world famous Alhambra Palace? A: Spain
Q: What is the given name of the wife of Conservative leader David Cameron? A: Samantha
Q: Which European country is 'double-landlocked' (landlocked by land-locked countries)? A: Liechtenstien
Q: Rila at 2,925 m is the highest mountain range in the Balkans. It stands in which country? A: Bulgaria
Q: Which lake is sometimes called Lac Leman in French? A: Lake Geneva
Q: Who immediately succeeded Augustus as Emperor of Rome? A: Tiberius
Q: Who designed the Crystal Palace for the Great Exhibition of 1851? A: Joseph Paxton
Q: Doctor Doom is the arch-enemy of which group of Marvel superheroes? A: Fantastic Four
Q: An actress, which 61 year old Dame was named the world's sexiest older woman? A: Helen Mirren
Q: Who was named the new host of Channel 4's Countdown? A: Des O'Connor
Q: Which art gallery is located at Bankside, London SE1? A: Tate Modern
Q: Which Florentine painter who died in 1337 had the oft overlooked surname, di Bondone? A: Giotto
Q: What familiar name is most commonly given to the fruiting body of a fungus? A: Mushroom or Toadstool
Q: What is the more common name for the 'European' or 'Great' Maple? A: Sycamore
Q: Which former Italian Prime Minister was kidnapped and murdered in 1978? A: Aldo Moro
Q: Created by Frank Mason Robinson in 1885, what is possibly the world's best known logo? A: Coca-Cola
Q: Which American was awarded a share of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1973? A: Henry Kissinger
Q: Also the proper first name of Milly-Molly-Mandy, what is the doll, Barbie's middle name? A: Millicent
Q: Which landlocked African country has a population of nearly 88 million? A: Ethiopia
Q: Which car company has featured in the name of cricket's 'Kennington Oval' since 2011? A: Kia Oval
Q: Its driver Jules Bianchi still in intensive care; which F1 team went bust on 7th Nov 2014? A: Marussia
Q: Which Scandinavian capital hosted the 2012 European Athletics Championships? A: Helsinki
Q: He famously ignored his orders, who was Nelson's superior at Copenhagen? A: Sir Hyde Parker
Q: A name featuring a Greek letter, what is the US Army's equivalent to the SAS? A: Delta Force
Q: A name featuring that of a marine mammal, what is the US Navy's equivalent to the SAS? A: Navy Seals
Q: Which musical instrument's name comes from the German word meaning 'bell-play'? A: Glockenspiel
Q: Who played 'The Fugitive' on TV? A: David Janssen
Q: Who narrated the classic US TV series 'The Untouchables'? A: Walter Winchell
Q: In a medical breakthrough in 1901, who was the first to classify A, B, O blood groups? A: Karl Landsteiner
Q: Who did God order to preach at Nineveh, but he ran away, with scary consequences? A: Jonah
Q: In telescopes and microscopes, what is the alternative name for the ocular lens? A: Eyepiece
Q: What name is given to molten rock located beneath the surface of the Earth? A: Magma
Q: Carson City is the capital of which US state? A: Nevada
Q: The Assyrian Empire was mostly located in which modern day, middle-east country? A: Iraq
Q: Which hi-tech company has its main assembly plant in Everett, Washington? A: Boeing
Q: Aimed at home audiences (1946-67) which popular show was on the 'Light Programme'? A: Housewives' Choice
Q: Which programme uses Penguin Cafe Orchestra's 'Scherzo and Trio' as its theme music? A: Round Britain Quiz
Q: Who is honoured with a museum in her home city of Wakefield, West Yorkshire? A: Barbara Hepworth
Q: Which famous sculptor was born in Castleford, West Yorkshire? A: Henry Moore
Q: Which 'John' directed (and had a cameo in) the film 'The Treasure of the Sierra Madre'? A: John Huston
Q: Who went from Radio 5 Live to 'The One Show' with Nadia Sawalah on BBC TV? A: Adrian Chiles
Q: In 'Allo 'Allo', what was the surname of the British soldier who dressed as a Gendarme? A: Crabtree
Q: Which of the PanHellenic Games was held on territory owned by the city state of Elis? A: Olympic Games
Q: July 16 in our Western calendar coincides with the first day of which other calendar? A: Islamic
Q: In which 1996 live-action/animation movie did basketball icon Michael Jordan star? A: Space Jam
Q: What was the title of the first single released by The Beatles in October 1962? A: Love Me Do
Q: In which English county is the port town of Fleetwood? A: Lancashire
Q: In 1938, who was the first actor ever to win successive Best Actor Academy Awards? A: Spencer Tracy
Q: By what name was the city of York known when under Viking occupation? A: Yorvik
Q: The Kamchatka Peninsula lies within the territory of which nation? A: Russia
Q: By what alternative name is the Mariinsky theatre of St Petersburg much better known? A: Kirov Ballet
Q: Messenger to the Greek gods, who was the son of Zeus and Maia? A: Hermes
Q: In Greek mythology who killed the gorgon Medusa? A: Perseus
Q: Triskaidekaphobia is the fear of what? A: Number 13
Q: "What would a 'galactophagist' (say ""Galacto-Fay-Gist"") consume a lot of?" A: Milk
Q: Terry Deary is the author of which series of children's books that were adapted for TV? A: Horrible Histories
Q: For which film did Tom Hanks win his first Oscar? A: Philadelphia
Q: Which ex 'Neighbours' star played Ed Exley in the movie adaptation of 'LA Confidential'? A: Guy Pearce
Q: Which Cabinet minister fathered Flora Keays by his secretary? A: Cecil PARKINSON
Q: In which county would you find Kielder Forest? A: Northumberland
Q: From which major religion did the Hare Krishna movement spring? A: Hindu
Q: Complete the saying ‘Whom the Gods love die ……..’? A: Young
Q: A gathering of which birds can be described as an ‘unkindness’? A: Ravens
Q: Built by Rama 1st. Which capital city is home to the Temple of the Emerald Buddha? A: Bangkok
Q: What is the clarified butter commonly used in Indian cuisine? A: Ghee
Q: Which famous writer lived at Gads Hill in Kent? A: Charles Dickens
Q: Not often mentioned – what is Jeeves first name? A: Reginald
Q: What is the nickname of Bertie Wooster’s friend Richard Little? A: Bingo
Q: What is the name of the aunt that Bertie lives in mortal fear of? A: Aunt Agatha
Q: Who was commanded by God through a donkey? A: Balaam
Q: In trigonometry what is calculated by the adjacent over the hypotenuse? A: Cosine
Q: Which Marks and Gran sitcom returned in the new year after 15 years off screen? A: Birds of a Feather
Q: Is the mountain range in Ireland in which the river Liffey rises? A: Wicklow Mountains
Q: In a greyhound race where does a dog finish if it makes ‘a show’? A: Third
Q: Apart from a straight flush which other hand beats a full house in poker? A: Four of a Kind
Q: Which letter denotes the civil aircraft marking for a plane registered in the UK? A: G
Q: Which European city is nicknamed the Athens of the North? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which kind of water contains quinine? A: Tonic Water
Q: In a book recto is the right-hand page – what is the left? A: Verso
Q: Whose autobiography was the UK’s best selling book of 2013? A: Sir Alex Ferguson
Q: Which tennis star was sued for palimony by Judy Nelson? A: Martina Navratilova
Q: On which instrument is a skirl played? A: Bagpipes
Q: What was the Oxford Dictionaries ‘New Word of the Year’? A: Selfie
Q: Which cooking term is used for sprinkling something with icing sugar or flour? A: Dredging
Q: The Cornish cheese yarg is wrapped in what? A: Nettles
Q: What is the alternative name for pimento or Jamaican pepper? A: Allspice
Q: Whose head is to appear on a new £2 coin to commemorate the start of World War I? A: Lord Kitchener
Q: In Botticelli’s famous Birth of Venus – in what is Venus standing? A: Sea Shell
Q: Which 1960’s art vogue was based on optical illusion? A: Op Art
Q: To west country folk what people are ‘emmets’ and ‘grockles’? A: Tourists
Q: In the words lithograph, lithium and Paleolithic – what does ‘lith’ mean? A: Stone
Q: The vessel had two sister ships the Olympic and which other? A: Britannic
Q: At which port did the passengers embark? A: Southampton
Q: Which vessel was the first to reach the disaster scene and pick up survivors? A: The Carpathia
Q: What is special about the species of mammal called monotremes? A: They Lay Eggs
Q: Who were the first ever winners of the English Football League in 1889? A: Preston North End
Q: In 1956 who became the first European Footballer of the Year? A: Stanley Matthews
Q: Which hero of mythology killed the Chimera? A: Bellerophon
Q: What was the collective name of the children of Uranus and Gaea? A: Titans
Q: Who plays Lee Mack’s father in Not Going Out? A: Bobby Ball
Q: Who plays Miranda Hart’s mother in her comedy series Miranda? A: Patricia Hodge
Q: Who plays Vic Reeves aka Jim Moir’s wife in the comedy Hebburn? A: Gina McKee
Q: What is the common name of the carambola? A: Star Fruit
Q: Whose charity work featured in the book Something Beautiful For God? A: Mother Teresa
Q: Which fictional sleuth made his debut in Pietr The Latvian? A: Maigret
Q: After World War II, what was a DP? A: Displaced Person
Q: Which digital currency debuted in 2009? A: Bitcoin
Q: Snape Maltings Hall is home to which annual festival, first held in 1948? A: Aldeburgh Festival
Q: Jason Voorhees features in which film series? A: Friday The 13th
Q: Karl Elsener invented which multitool in 1894? A: Swiss Army Knife
Q: What are the single most identifiable symbols in masonry? A: The Square & Compasses
Q: Which Biblical story provides the basic theme for Masonic allegorical rituals? A: Building of Solomon’s Temple
Q: Who is the Great Architect of the Universe in Masonic ritual? A: God
Q: Which composer attempted suicide by throwing himself into the river Rhine? A: Schuman
Q: Which composer of the Baroque period had 20 children? A: Bach
Q: Which composer was Franz Liszt’s son-in-law? A: Wagner
Q: What is produced by the reaction of mercury with another metal? A: Amalgam
Q: In the movie Carry On Dick – who was the Dick referred to? A: Dick Turpin
Q: Zen is which country’s form of Buddhism? A: Japan
Q: Chiroptera is the scientific name for what creatures? A: Bats
Q: Which island group was once called the Somers Islands? A: Bermuda
Q: Lamaism is which country’s form of Buddhism? A: Tibet
Q: Aves is the scientific name for which creatures? A: Birds
Q: Which island group was once called the Spanish East Indies? A: Philippines
Q: What is the young of a turkey called? A: Poult
Q: What is the middle name of Ex-President Jimmy Carter? A: Earl
Q: Who was the bass player and youngest member of the original line-up of Queen? A: John Deacon
Q: In 1948, which Vickers aircraft became the first turboprop airliner to enter active service? A: Vickers Viscount
Q: Red Hot and Pocket Money were among the sections of which show? A: Big Break
Q: Which Channel Four game show was remade in the USA under the title Junkyard Wars? A: Scrapheap Challenge
Q: Ellis Achong’s style of left-arm wrist spin gave rise to what term in the cricket vocabulary? A: Chinaman
Q: In cricket parlance, what are ‘buzzers’? A: Overthrows
Q: Edmond Dantès is the eponymous protagonist of which novel of 1844? A: The Count of Monte Cristo
Q: Which poet was shot in the wrist by his lover, fellow poet Paul Verlaine? A: Arthur Rimbaud
Q: Voiced by Steve Carell, Gru is the supervillain in which animated film and its sequel? A: Despicable Me
Q: Which city hosted the first stage of the 2014 Giro d’Italia? A: Belfast
Q: Which Scottish border village lies at the northernmost end of the Pennine Way? A: Kirk Yetholm
Q: Which moorland plateau is the highest point in Derbyshire? A: Kinder Scout
Q: Who played the title role in the recent ITV biographical drama Cilla? A: Sheridan Smith
Q: Which film had the tag line ‘One dream. Four Jamaicans. Twenty below zero’? A: Cool Runnings
Q: Who had ‘flaming locks of auburn hair, with ivory skin and eyes of emerald green’? A: Jolene
Q: In July 2014, Judith Weir became the first woman to be appointed to which post? A: Master of the Queen’s Music
Q: Which English chemist published the first scientific study on colour blindness? A: John Dalton
Q: According to Shakespeare, who was drowned in a butt of Malmsey wine? A: The Duke of Clarence
Q: What is the capital of the Canadian province of New Brunswick? A: Fredericton
Q: Voiced by Nicholas Parsons, Tex Tucker was the hero of which Supermarionation series? A: Four Feather Falls
Q: The Cathy and Claire problem page was a popular feature of which weekly for girls? A: Jackie
Q: Who acted as coach to Jermain Jackson, the 2014 winner of The Voice UK? A: Will.i.am
Q: Who was the President of the USA at the start of the 20th Century? A: William McKinley
Q: In his eponymous TV show, which comedian and actor played obstetrician Cliff Huxtable? A: Bill Cosby
Q: Who played Ensign Wesley Crusher in Star Trek, The Next Generation? A: Wil Wheaton
Q: For which film of 1948 did father and son Walter and John Huston both win Oscars? A: Treasure of the Sierra Madre
Q: In which 1944 film does a drama critic learn that his two maiden aunts are serial killers? A: Arsenic and Old Lace
Q: Who wrote the 1958 novella Breakfast at Tiffany’s? A: Truman Capote
Q: Who wrote the 1957 poem Not Waving but Drowning? A: Stevie Smith
Q: In which children’s series did the character Zoonie the Lazoon appear? A: Fireball XL5
Q: Who released the critically acclaimed albums Blue and Court and Spark? A: Joni Mitchell
Q: What was the B-side of Gloria Gaynor’s 1978 single Substitute? A: I Will Survive
Q: Who was the principal female figure in the scandal that became known as ‘Zippergate’? A: Monica Lewinsky
Q: Which BP rig sank in April 2010, causing a massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico? A: Deepwater Horizon
Q: In the world of Private Eye, Ron Knee is the manager of which football club? A: Neasden FC
Q: What is the minimum period for which scotch whisky can be aged? A: Three Years
Q: In the Loop was a film spin-off from which satirical television series? A: The Thick of It
Q: Which date has been unofficially designated “Star Wars Day”? A: May the Fourth
Q: Played by Laila Rouass, Amber Gates was a major character in which ITV drama series? A: Footballer’s Wives
Q: Who designed the PGA Centenary Course at Gleneagles on which the match was played? A: Jack Nicklaus
Q: Who played the U-boat commander in the ‘Don’t tell him, Pike’ scene from Dad’s Army? A: Philip Madoc
Q: The holder of which post is also the Minister for the Civil Service? A: Prime Minister
Q: Count Duckula was a spinoff from which other children’s animated series? A: Danger Mouse
Q: What is the maximum permitted length of an entry in the Eurovision Song Contest? A: Three Minutes
Q: What type of soup is a consommé or broth garnished with long thin strips of vegetables? A: JULIENNE
Q: What is the name of the river on which Bakewell stands? A: WYE
Q: Which river features in Jimmy Nail’s 1995 Top 20 hit, ‘Big River’? A: TYNE
Q: Who wrote the novels The Sicilian and The Last Don? A: Mario Puzo
Q: Harrison Schmitt was the most recent man to do what? A: WALK ON THE MOON
Q: The St. Leger and the Lincoln Handicap are both run at which racecourse? A: DONCASTER
Q: Anatomy. Why is it that cartilage grows and repairs more slowly than other tissues? A: DOES NOT CONTAIN BLOOD
Q: Planktology, malacology and primatology are all branches of which science? A: ZOOLOGY
Q: One meaning of ‘contubernal’ is ‘living in the same …’ what? A: TENT
Q: Which sport is thought to derive its name from the French for ‘take it’ (and thus ‘play’)? A: TENNIS
Q: Which game gets its name from the Spanish for ‘ball’? A: PELOTA
Q: Which horse finished second in the Grand National? A: BALTHAZAR KING
Q: In which character-based comedy sketch show did she play the part of Myfanwy? A: LITTLE BRITAIN
Q: Who became the first Earl of Chatham in 1766? A: William PITT THE ELDER
Q: In 1990, Barbara Castle became Baroness Castle of where? A: BLACKBURN
Q: In which village in north-eastern France was Joan of Arc born? A: DOMREMY
Q: Born in 1898, which important figure did M.E. Clifton James closely resemble? A: Field Marshall MONTGOMERY
Q: Who was the first British monarch to live in Buckingham Palace? A: Queen VICTORIA
Q: Who or what died in Jean Harlow’s arms in 1932? A: RIN TIN TIN
Q: In 1984, who topped the US charts, and got to no. 9 in the UK, with ‘Missing You’? A: JOHN WAITE
Q: Who topped the charts with ‘He’s Not Heavy, He’s My Brother’ in 1969? A: THE HOLLIES
Q: When eating out, what French phrase is effectively the opposite of ‘a la carte’? A: TABLE D’HOTE
Q: L. B. Johnson, former president of the USA – for what did the ‘B’ stand? A: BAINES
Q: Which King was killed by Neoptolemus at the fall of Troy? A: PRIAM
Q: Which ‘C’ was the Roman version of the Greek goddess Demeter? A: CERES
Q: Who had sisters named Stheno and Euryale? A: MEDUSA
Q: Born in 1941, which legendary (and now retired) squash player lives in Morwenstow? A: JONAH BARRINGTON
Q: Born in Newquay in 1911, who is the author of ‘The Spire’ and ‘Pincher Martin’? A: WILLIAM GOLDING
Q: All Scotch whisky must be aged in oak barrels for at least how many years? A: THREE
Q: What was the name of the prostitute in the 1986/7 Jeffrey Archer scandal? A: MONICA COGHLAN
Q: Born in 1942, what is the forename of Welsh snooker player Mr. Mountjoy? A: DOUG
Q: Which of Shakespeare’s plays features a herald named Mountjoy? A: HENRY V
Q: What is the name of the only lake in the Lake District? A: BASSENTHWAITE
Q: Just before WWI, which S. Wales town was the largest coal-exporting port in the world? A: BARRY
Q: What is the alternative name for Puck, in ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’? A: ROBIN GOODFELLOW
Q: To which minor character does Hamlet refer as a ‘waterfly’? A: OSRIC
Q: Diogenes is the name of the dog in which Dickens’ novel? A: DOMBEY AND SON
Q: What was the first name of Don Warrington’s character in ‘Rising Damp’? A: PHILLIP
Q: In 1936, who composed ‘Carmina Burana’, the first part of a trilogy? A: Carl ORFF
Q: Which opera, first performed in 1874, is set largely in a cigarette factory? A: CARMEN
Q: Who painted ‘Luncheon of the Boating Party’, 1880-1? A: Pierre-Auguste RENOIR
Q: What is the chemical formula for the substance commonly known as ‘laughing gas’? A: N2O
Q: A simple quadrilateral whose sides are all of the same length is known as a what? A: RHOMBUS
Q: Charles Darwin was born on Feb. 12th, 1809. Which US president was born on that day? A: ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Q: Who took over from Jeff Stelling as the host of ‘Countdown’? A: NICK HEWER
Q: “Away, you rolling river” is one of the refrains in which traditional folk song? A: SHENANDOAH
Q: Who composed the Oscar-winning song, ‘Moon River’? A: HENRY MANCINI
Q: Houdun and Light Sussex are types of which farmyard creature? A: CHICKEN
Q: Khaki Campbell and Rouen are types of which farmyard creature? A: DUCK
Q: The Great Schism was a split within the Catholic church in what century? A: 14th
Q: Which gas, indicating the presence of possible life forms, has been discovered on Mars? A: Methane
Q: Francis II 1792-1835 was the last person to hold which 1000-year-old title? A: Holy Roman Emperor
Q: In Italy what is ‘calcio’? A: Football
Q: Which creature was used as a symbol of Christianity in the early days of persecution? A: Fish
Q: Abolished in 1966 by the Catholic Church what was the Index Expergatorius? A: List of banned books
Q: In which Spielberg film does an FBI agent pursue a highly talented fraudster? A: Catch Me If You Can
Q: In Jaws what was the name of the shark-hunting captain of the boat Orca? A: Quint
Q: Chalcopyrite is a major ore of which metal? A: Copper
Q: Nephrite is one of the two forms of which ornamental rock? A: Jade
Q: What is the scientific name for brown coal? A: Lignite
Q: To which secret society did Gavrilo Princip, Archduke Franz Ferdinand’s assassin belong? A: The Black Hand
Q: What was the name of the unsuccessful ‘war plan’ developed by the Germans in 1905? A: Schlieffen Plan
Q: The kakapo is the world’s only flightless type of which bird? A: Parrot
Q: Which cowboy was played by Ty Hardin? A: Bronco Layne
Q: The Stoop is the home of which Premiership club? A: Harlequins
Q: Which has been known as the ‘Horned Planet’? A: Venus
Q: Who drinks poison to save Peter Pan? A: Tinkerbell
Q: What Latin phrase is used for one’s old school or university? A: Alma Mater
Q: Who had a backing group called The Jordanaires? A: Elvis Presley
Q: In which film does Meg Ryan simulate orgasm in a crowded restaurant? A: When Harry Met Sally
Q: What type of creature is a bleak? A: Fish
Q: What did the Romans call Mare Nostrum? A: Mediterranean Sea
Q: Which operatic character has a son called Dolore? A: Madame Butterfly
Q: Which Czech composer wrote The Bartered Bride? A: Smetana
Q: Which is the only city on the river Wye, which follows the England/Wales border? A: Hereford
Q: St Michael’s Mount is situated three miles east of which Cornish town? A: Penzance
Q: High Willhays is the highest point of which county? A: Devon
Q: What was initiated by Pope Urban II’s sermon at Clermont in 1095? A: First Crusade
Q: What did Usain Bolt supposedly describe as ‘a bit shit’? A: The Commonwealth Games
Q: Who presents the Radio 4 panel game Just A Minute? A: Nicholas Parsons
Q: The 2014 UK Christmas No.1 record was Something I Need – who was the performer? A: Ben Haenow
Q: Who plays Mr Brown in the new Paddington Bear movie? A: Hugh Bonneville
Q: On TV and in film who are Neil, Simon, Will and Jay? A: The Inbetweeners
Q: In which layer of the atmosphere does the ‘ozone layer’ occur? A: Stratosphere
Q: Which Mediterranean island is divided by the Attila Line? A: Cyprus
Q: Which story is about the torments endured by a prisoner during the Spanish Inquisition? A: The Pit and the Pendulum
Q: After whose execution in 1794 was the apparatus of ‘The Terror’ in France dismantled? A: Robespierre
Q: Which vegetable is the chief ingredient in a Spanish Omelette? A: Potato
Q: What name was given to the code of the Samurai? A: Bushido
Q: In 2008 Great Leighs became the first new venue for which sport for 80 years? A: Horse Racing
Q: Which footwear is also a venomous snake? A: Moccasin
Q: What lies roughly along 180 degrees longitude? A: The International Date Line
Q: The mastodon was an early relative of which modern creature? A: Elephant
Q: Which castle is known as ‘The Key of England’? A: Dover Castle
Q: Which castle is the official residence of the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports? A: Walmer Castle
Q: Crohn’s Disease affects which part of the body? A: Intestines
Q: What medical term is used for an extreme life-threatening allergic reaction? A: Anaphylaxis
Q: Which physical disability is called medically ‘talipes’? A: Club Foot
Q: World Championships in which sport took place at Frimley Green recently? A: Darts
Q: We call it grilling – what do Americans call it? A: Broiling
Q: Raclette is a mild cheese – what is its country of origin? A: Switzerland
Q: Which radioactive isotope is used to date archaeological samples? A: Carbon 14
Q: Vitamin B2 has what medical name? A: Riboflavin
Q: What do we call a quadrilateral with just two sides parallel? A: Trapezium
Q: Who was the Roman equivalent of the Greek Goddess Artemis? A: Diana
Q: On the Beaufort Scale which number is registered as Fresh Breeze? A: 5
Q: Who painted The Anatomy Lesson of Doctor Tulp? A: Rembrandt
Q: On the Beaufort Scale which number is registered as High Wind? A: 7
Q: Which famous retreat was formerly called Shangri-La? A: Camp David
Q: Which is the only city in the county of Cornwall? A: Truro
Q: Who did Marcel Duchamp paint complete with a moustache? A: The Mona Lisa
Q: A rat called Splinter trained which quartet? A: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
Q: Who was the apostle chosen to replace Judas Iscariot? A: Matthias
Q: What was the site of Jesus’ ascension into heaven 40 days after the resurrection? A: Mount of Olives
Q: What is Coronation Street’s local newspaper? A: Weatherfield Gazette
Q: Madrid stands on which river? A: Manzanares
Q: Ray Parker Jnr sang the theme song to which famous 1984 movie? A: Ghostbusters
Q: In which capital city is the stadium nicknamed ‘The Birds Nest’? A: Beijing
Q: Which palindrome means a principle of belief? A: Tenet
Q: On which US state’s flag can the Union Jack be seen? A: Hawaii
Q: Which steak is cut from between the ribs? A: Entrecote
Q: What did Sherlock Holmes keep in the toe of a Persian slipper? A: Tobacco
Q: What is the title of the French National Anthem? A: The Marseillaise
Q: Who wrote ‘Not Waving But Drowning’? A: Stevie Smith
Q: In bridge what jargon word is used for the condition of holding no trumps? A: Chicane
Q: Performing which move can a chess player move two pieces at the same time? A: Castling
Q: Which vertical take-off jet made its first flight in 1966? A: Harrier
Q: Which year was renowned as ‘The Year of Revolutions’? A: 1848
Q: The original ‘Gang of Four’ was a political group in which country? A: China
Q: Which famous building was burned down by British forces in 1812? A: The Whitehouse
Q: Trinidad sits only 6.8 miles from the coast of which South American country? A: Venezuela
Q: What is the capital of Barbados? A: Bridgetown
Q: A Wayzgoose is an annual outing or party in which industry? A: Printing Industry
Q: What is a hen party called in the USA? A: Bachelorette Party
Q: In Scottish courts three verdicts are allowed – guilty, not guilty and which other? A: Not Proven
Q: To which club did Mr Winkle, Mr Tupman and Mr Snodgrass belong? A: Pickwick Club
Q: Which Old Testament character died at the age of 950? A: Noah
Q: Henry VIII had six wives, but which of his wives had four husbands? A: Catherine Parr
Q: Hatha, Jnana and Karma are all forms of which activity? A: Yoga
Q: We call it jam – what does an American call it? A: Jelly
Q: Who traded places with Eddie Murphy in the film Trading Places? A: Dan Akroyd
Q: In Indian cuisine which vegetable is ‘aloo’? A: Potato
Q: What is the capital of Latvia? A: Riga
Q: In which way did the crucifixion of St Peter differ from that of Jesus? A: He was crucified upside-down
Q: Which carnivore’s liver is so packed with Vitamin A it would kill you if you ate it? A: Polar Bear
Q: In 1972 Mother and Child Reunion was the first solo UK hit for which artist? A: Paul Simon
Q: Who topped the charts in 1996 with Breathe and Firestarter? A: The Prodigy
Q: What is the only New Testament Gospel that is not synoptic? A: John
Q: To which of the tribes of Israel did Samson belong? A: Dan
Q: What shape is rigatoni pasta? A: Tubes
Q: Softly scrambled egg spread on toast and coated in anchovy paste is called what? A: Scotch Woodcock
Q: Jana Gana Mana is the National Anthem of which country? A: India
Q: A pangram is a sentence containing what? A: All the letters of the alphabet
Q: In which novel was Aunt Ada Doom shocked by something nasty in the woodshed? A: Cold Comfort Farm
Q: What is the name of France’s equivalent to our own Britannia? A: Marianne
Q: The Folketing is the parliament of which country? A: Denmark
Q: What is the common name for the Earth’s lithosphere? A: Crust
Q: Ben’s first success as a writer was in co-writing which 1980s TV comedy? A: The Young Ones
Q: Which musical has characters Columbia, Magenta and Dr Everett Scott? A: Rocky Horror Picture Show
Q: In which musical did Michael Ball play Edna Turnblad in the West End? A: Hairspray
Q: What is the occupation of Alfred Doolittle in My Fair Lady? A: Dustman
Q: ‘We shall abolish the orgasm. Our neurologist are at work upon it now’ – which book? A: 1984
Q: Which character said ‘Why is a raven like a writing desk’? A: The Mad Hatter
Q: Which solid has the biggest volume for a given surface area? A: Sphere
Q: Which type of rock is formed by heat or pressure? A: Metamorphic
Q: Who is the current Shadow Home Secretary? A: Yvette Cooper
Q: Who won the African Cup of Nations recently? A: Ivory Coast
Q: Who won the Women’s Singles at the 2015 Australian Open Tennis Championships? A: Serena Williams
Q: To which school of art did Jackson Pollock and Mark Rotho belong? A: Abstract Expressionism
Q: Which motorcycle manufacturer made the Trident and Bonneville models? A: Triumph
Q: What was the maiden name of tennis player Billy Jean King? A: Moffitt
Q: To which school of art did Matisse and Vlaminck belong? A: Fauvism
Q: Which motorcycle manufacturer made the Dominator and Commando models? A: Norton
Q: What was the maiden name of tennis player Margaret Court? A: Smith
Q: What was the name of the Girl From Uncle? A: April Dancer
Q: The object in pontoon is 21 – what is it in baccarat? A: 9
Q: ... a mineral, varieties of which include emerald and aquamarine? A: Beryl
Q: James Joyce’s Ulysses ends with an extended monologue by which character? A: Molly Bloom
Q: Maureen ’Mo’ Tucker was the drummer in which seminal 1960s rock band? A: Velvet Underground
Q: Classical musician Alison Balsom is a virtuoso player of which instrument? A: Trumpet
Q: Who is the lead female protagonist of Benjamin Britten’s opera Gloriana? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: The Trial and The Castle are works by which Czech author? A: Franz Kafka
Q: Who composed the tone poem The Swan of Tuonela? A: Jean Sibelius
Q: Which scientific law can be expressed in the form V = IR*? (*QR: vee equals eye are.) A: Ohm’s Law
Q: Four of the first five Presidents of the USA came from which state? A: Virginia
Q: What comes next in this sequence: butane, propane, ethane, ... ? A: Methane
Q: What nationality is Richard Flanagan, winner of the 2014 Man Booker Prize for Fiction? A: Australian
Q: Snooker cues, baseball bats, and cricket stumps are traditionally made from which wood? A: Ash
Q: In which board game is the ‘huffing’ rule sometimes adopted? A: Draughts
Q: In poker, which hand beats a flush but loses to four of a kind? A: Full House
Q: The Black Mountains are part of which UK national park? A: Brecon Beacons
Q: What is the signature feature of footwear designed by Christian Louboutin? A: Red Soles
Q: Which quiz-show host will provide the new voice of Danger Mouse later in 2015? A: Alexander Armstrong
Q: The Prostate Years is the final instalment of whose diaries? A: Adrian Mole
Q: Star Beast was the working title for which 1979 blockbuster film? A: Alien
Q: ‘Stop all the clocks’ are the opening words of which poem by W. H. Auden? A: Funeral Blues
Q: Which poem by Philip Larkin describes a train journey on a hot bank-holiday Saturday? A: The Whitsun Weddings
Q: Which Championship football team was originally known as Riverside FC? A: Cardiff City
Q: The first ball of the 2014 Major League Baseball season was pitched in which stadium? A: Sydney Cricket Ground
Q: Who played Watson in Guy Ritchie’s 2009 film Sherlock Holmes? A: Jude Law
Q: Which two islands are linked by the 33 and a half-mile-long Seikan rail tunnel? A: Honshu and Hokkaido
Q: Which two cities form the termini of the passenger train known as The Ghan? A: Darwin and Adelaide
Q: Which amendment to the Constitution mandated prohibition in the USA? A: Eighteenth Amendment
Q: What was Queen Victoria’s first name at birth, in May 1819? A: Alexandrina
Q: By what name are the Society of London Theatre’s annual awards known? A: Olivier Awards
Q: Which all-Pullman train ran between London and Brighton from 1931 to 1972? A: The Brighton Belle
Q: The Palk strait separates which two countries? A: India and Sri Lanka
Q: What is the most populous city on the Japanese island of Hokkaido? A: Sapporo
Q: Port Louis is the capital city of which island nation? A: Mauritius
Q: When used as an artists’ pigment, the oxide of which metal is known as Chinese white? A: Zinc
Q: What word links a walrus and a telecommunications pioneer? A: Morse
Q: Edmund II, son of Æthelred the Unready, was known by what appellation? A: Ironside
Q: Lawyer Miriam González Durántez is married to which prominent UK politician? A: Nick Clegg
Q: Which legendary American folk singer died in January 2014 at the age of 94? A: Pete SEEGER
Q: 18 June will mark the 200th anniversary of which famous battle? A: WATERLOO
Q: In the Christian festival of Christingle, which fruit is used to represent the world? A: ORANGE
Q: Which vegetable is used to layer a traditional Greek moussaka? A: AUBERGINE
Q: Who designed the modern glass pyramid that sits at the entrance to the Louvre in Paris? A: I. M. PEI
Q: Whose greatest work was laying out the plan for the city of New Delhi, India? A: Edwin LUTYENS
Q: An architect and playwright, who designed Blenheim House in Oxfordshire, England? A: John VANBRUGH
Q: What was the name of the prison setting for the TV comedy ‘Porridge’? A: HMP SLADE
Q: What was the home state of character Tony Soprano in the TV series 'The Sopranos'? A: NEW JERSEY
Q: Which square on a UK Monopoly Board comes between Pall Mall and Whitehall? A: ELECTRIC COMPANY
Q: Who was revealed to be the fourth Russian spy in the Burgess, Philby and Maclean affair? A: Anthony BLUNT
Q: Who was the author of the 1992 novel ‘Jurassic Park’? A: Michael CRICHTON
Q: Who wrote the 1987 novel 'The Bonfire of the Vanities'? A: Tom WOLFE
Q: Who wrote the picaresque American novel 'A Confederacy of Dunces'? A: John Kennedy TOOLE
Q: Which town sits opposite Tynemouth at the mouth of the River Tyne? A: SOUTH SHIELDS
Q: What is the name of the village on the Wirral originally built by William Lever for his workers? A: PORT SUNLIGHT
Q: In terms of population, which is the second largest city in Austria? A: GRAZ
Q: In terms of population, which is the second largest city in Finland? A: ESPOO
Q: Served with a steak, which sauce is made with butter, egg yolks, white wine vinegar, and tarragon? A: BÉARNAISE
Q: Above which castle did Charles I raise his Standard in 1642, effecting declaring war on parliament? A: NOTTINGHAM
Q: Which bloody 1651 encounter was the final battle of the English Civil Wars? A: Battle of
Q: What name is given to the speculation mania that ruined a great many investors in 1720? A: SOUTH SEA BUBBLE
Q: "Who revolutionized the high jump, inventing a unique ""back-first"" technique, named after him?" A: Dick FOSBURY
Q: By custom, the medals for which men’s event are presented during a Games’ Closing Ceremony? A: MARATHON
Q: In which musical does the song “I Got Plenty of Nuthin’”appear? A: PORGY AND BESS
Q: Which Mountain Pass provides a route between Kentucky and Tennessee via the Appalachians? A: CUMBERLAND GAP
Q: Which was Roger Moore’s final Bond film? A: A VIEW TO A KILL
Q: Which film opens with Bond performing a bungee jump from a dam? A: GOLDENEYE
Q: Who sang the theme for the film ‘You Only Live Twice’? A: Nancy SINATRA
Q: Which film company did George Harrison create to finance ‘Monty Python’s Life of Brian’? A: HANDMADE Films
Q: "For which play did Shakespeare write the line: ""All that glisters is not gold""?" A: The MERCHANT OF
Q: What colour gloves does Sonic the hedgehog wear? A: WHITE
Q: What kind of marsupial is the titular video game character ‘Crash’? A: BANDICOOT
Q: In the classic video game, what colour hair do the titular Lemmings have? A: GREEN
Q: In the painting ‘Mr and Mrs Clark and Percy’ by David Hockney, who or what is Percy? A: CAT
Q: At which celebrated German art school did the painters Kandinsky, Klee and Albers all lecture? A: BAUHAUS
Q: Which popular British artist was noted for her affectionate, lyrical paintings of fat people? A: Beryl COOK
Q: Which fruit is the title of an Estonian-Georgian nominee in the Best Foreign Language category? A: TANGERINES
Q: Which freckled, red-headed actress has now had five nominations, this time around for 'Still Alice'? A: Julianne MOORE
Q: "Spoken by J.K. Simmons, ""not quite my tempo"" is a noted line from which jazz-themed movie?" A: WHIPLASH
Q: Almost unrecognisable with a prosthetic nose, who plays John E. du Pont in 'Foxcatcher'? A: Steve CARRELL
Q: Which movie did President Obama screen at the White House just before Martin Luther King Day? A: SELMA
Q: A former ‘Bond Girl’, which UK actress is nominated for her leading role in 'Gone Girl'? A: Rosamund PIKE
Q: Which Best Picture nominated movie tells the story of US soldier, 'Chris' Kyle? A: AMERICAN SNIPER
Q: What was nominated for its song, 'Everything Is Awesome', but not in the best animation category? A: The LEGO MOVIE
Q: Who became the first socialist President of France in 1981, being re-elected in 1988? A: François MITTERAND
Q: Who was the President of Argentina when it invaded the Falklands in 1982? A: Leopoldo GALTIERI
Q: What is the name of the strait linking the Persian Gulf to the Gulf of Oman? A: Straits of HORMUZ
Q: Joab slew him as he was fleeing a battle, who was the rebellious third son of King David? A: ABSALOM
Q: Who many lines are there on a single, standard musical staff or stave? A: FIVE
Q: "To be precise, which musical term of Italian origin translates into English as ""pinched""?" A: PIZZICATO
Q: Which company made The Comet, the world’s first passenger jet airliner? A: DE HAVILAND
Q: The famous ‘Route 66’ in America connected Los Angeles to which other city? A: CHICAGO
Q: Which Irish band provided the music for Harry’s Game and Robin of Sherwood? A: CLANNAD
Q: Which anti-arthritis drug was withdrawn in Britain in 1982 because of its side effects? A: OPREN
Q: Where did the BBC set up permanent radio broadcasting facilities in April? A: HOUSE OF COMMONS
Q: The murder of which paperboy in September sparked a massive Police manhunt? A: Carl BRIDGEWATER
Q: Which pioneering British photographer famously recorded the Crimean War? A: Roger FENTON
Q: Where is the largest tropical forest in Africa? A: CONGO Basin
Q: In 1975, which British band became the first to receive royalties for record sales in the USSR? A: ROLLING STONES
Q: Who had a 1974 UK No 1 hit with Ms Grace? A: The TYMES
Q: "From the Greek for ""lazy"", what property is an object’s resistance to change in its state of motion?" A: INERTIA
Q: Who won the Australian Open Men’s Tennis Championship? A: Stanislas WAWRINKA
Q: Which metal with an atomic number of 31, melts at 30 degrees Centigrade? A: GALLIUM
Q: In which town in Ceredigion will you find the world's biggest Camera Obscura? A: ABERYSTWYTH
Q: Masai, Reticulated, and Angolan are all species of which African mammal? A: GIRAFFE
Q: Which US author wrote the books on which The Hunger Games series of films are based? A: Suzanne COLLINS
Q: An island group in the Pacific; which country administers the Chonos Archipelago? A: CHILE
Q: The poisonous toadstool fly agaric usually has a cap of red and what other colour? A: WHITE
Q: Three Scottish kings, three Russian tsars and eight popes have all shared what name? A: ALEXANDER
Q: Which Radio 4 programme calls itself ‘the antidote to panel games’? A: I’M SORRY, I HAVEN’T A CLUE
Q: Which 80s sitcom starred Penelope Wilton as Ann Bryce and Peter Egan as Paul Ryman? A: EVER DECREASING CIRCLES
Q: What corrosive liquid makes up about 38% of the electrolyte in a car battery? A: SULPHURIC ACID
Q: In which British city can you find the Roman temple dedicated to Sulis Minerva? A: BATH
Q: Ace of Base, The Cardigans and Roxette are all bands from which country? A: SWEDEN
Q: A smooth hill shaped by moving ice made up of glacial drift is known as a what? A: DRUMLIN
Q: Under what pseudonym did Theodor Geisel write over sixty books for children? A: DR. SEUSS
Q: The Frasch process is used to extract what chemical element from underground deposits? A: SULPHUR
Q: With what type of transport would you associate the term ‘bow collector’? A: TRAMS
Q: Half the island of Timor belongs to East Timor. Which country owns the other half? A: INDONESIA
Q: What was the name of the half-bird, half-woman creature of Greek mythology? A: HARPY
Q: In nuclear science, what word used to follow ‘half-life’, before the term was shortened in the early 1950s? A: PERIOD
Q: “ .. he'll grow to be an angry young man some day” comes from the lyrics of which 1969 no.2 hit? A: IN THE GHETTO
Q: What nationality is tennis star Novak Djokovic? A: SERBIAN
Q: In the 90s, who starred in the tv series ‘The Manageress’ and several Kenco adverts? (She A: CHERIE LUNGHI
Q: On the original 1939 posters, what were the two last words? A: CARRY ON
Q: In 2012, which London pop-rock band took part in ‘The Keep Calm and Play Louder Tour’? A: McFLY
Q: Who starred as Dan Matthews in ‘Highway Patrol’? A: BRODERICK CRAWFORD
Q: What was the name of the cow in ‘The Woodentops’? A: BUTTERCUP
Q: What was the original, slightly controversial title of the Monkees’ hit ‘Alternate Title’? A: RANDY SCOUSE GIT
Q: Mythology. Who was said to be the husband of Helen of Troy? A: MENELAUS
Q: The Bible. Who was the royal person who questioned the wisdom of Solomon? A: The QUEEN OF SHEBA
Q: What name is shared by a violet-coloured flower and a gastropod mollusc? A: PERIWINKLE
Q: According to the proverb, ‘None but the brave deserve …’ what? A: THE FAIR
Q: Whose painting, ‘Benefits Supervisor Resting’, sold for £35.8million at auction? A: LUCIAN FREUD
Q: Which politician was described as “a snarling, thin-skinned, obsessive man”? A: NIGEL FARAGE
Q: The Fitzroy shipping area, named after him, was previously known as what? A: FINISTERRE
Q: In 1831 he was re-appointed commander of which famous vessel? A: HMS BEAGLE
Q: What is the name of SpongeBob SquarePants’ (sic) pet snail? A: GARY
Q: What name did Manuel give to his pet rat in ‘Fawlty Towers’? A: BASIL
Q: Who wrote the play ‘Barefoot in the Park’, which premiered on Broadway in 1963? A: NEIL SIMON
Q: What was the first name of the English painter Gainsborough, 1727-1788? A: THOMAS
Q: Which musical features the music of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons? A: THE JERSEY BOYS
Q: ‘The Perfect Year’ and ‘Surrender’ are songs from which musical? A: SUNSET BOULEVARD
Q: One of John Lennon’s sons is named Julian. What is the other son’s name? A: SEAN
Q: In what decade were driving tests first introduced into Britain? A: 1930s
Q: Who became the deputy leader of the Labour party in September 2015? A: TOM WATSON
Q: Umnak, Unimak and Unalaska are islands in which group, belonging to the USA? A: ALEUTIAN Islands
Q: In the news in Somerset in April, what is a Hudsonian Godwit? A: A BIRD
Q: A mendacious person is prone to doing what? A: TELLING LIES
Q: What nationality was Trygve Lie, the first Secretary-General of the United Nations? A: NORWEGIAN
Q: Weddell, Ross and Baikal are among the varieties of which mammal? A: SEALS
Q: In 1599, in which market town was Oliver Cromwell born? A: HUNTINGDON
Q: In 1989, Hans-Adam II became the monarch and head of which European state? A: LIECHTENSTEIN
Q: Who was the World’s no.1 ranked male tennis professional from 1964 to 1970? A: ROD LAVER
Q: What part did the late Kevin Lloyd play in ‘The Bill’? A: Alfred ‘TOSH’ LINES
Q: What was Orson Welles’ first film? A: CITIZEN KANE
Q: Spanish. What item of clothing is/are ‘los guantes’? A: GLOVES
Q: American. What word is used to describe a large, co-operatively owned house? A: CONDOMINIUM
Q: Classical. Zadok the Priest was composed in 1727 by whom? A: George Frideric HANDEL
Q: Jazz. With what instrument do you associate Art Tatum, 1909-1956? A: PIANO
Q: Pop. ‘Tubthumping’ was a 1997 no.2 hit for which group? A: CHUMBAWAMBA
Q: ‘Dead Belgians Don’t Count’ was the original working title of which 90s sitcom? A: DROP THE DEAD DONKEY
Q: Which WWII leader’s son, Romano, became a noted jazz pianist? A: Benito MUSSOLINI
Q: Which ‘Egghead’ published the book ‘The Great Railway Quiz’ in 1984? A: Chris HUGHES
Q: Who did Nick Clegg narrowly defeat in the LibDem leadership contest in 2007? A: Chris HUHNE
Q: Which woman ceased to be a senator for the state of New York in 2009? A: Hillary CLINTON
Q: Who led the Labour Party for 22 months from May 1992? A: John SMITH
Q: The French word for which colour is jaune? A: YELLOW
Q: Which US term used along with the word ‘figure’ to indicate an approximate amount? A: BALLPARK
Q: A former comic, which Staffordshire lad hosted the BBC 2 quiz show ‘Breakaway’? A: Nick HANCOCK
Q: In TV’s Dad’s Army, what was Captain Mainwaring’s first name? A: GEORGE
Q: Since 1886, Great Britain and USA have contested the Westchester Cup in which sport? A: POLO
Q: For which novel did Leslie Thomas win the 1966 Author’s Club ‘First Novel Award’? A: The VIRGIN SOLDIERS
Q: Dying in 1850, whose poems included 'Lines Written a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey'? A: William WORDSWORTH
Q: In which county of England would you find the royal residence of Sandringham? A: NORFOLK
Q: What is separated from the Essex mainland by Benfleet Creek and Easthaven Creek? A: CANVEY ISLAND
Q: Ramses Station is the main railway station in which capital city? A: CAIRO
Q: With which country does Paraguay have its longest land border? A: ARGENTINA
Q: What is the name of the Greek dish derived from the words for fish roe and salad? A: TARAMOSALATA
Q: 'Leigh Toaster' is a variety of which crumbly English cheese? A: LANCASHIRE
Q: Which of the elements, one of the noble gases, has the atomic number 10? A: NEON
Q: Which late Nobel Laureate once called for Tony Blair to be prosecuted for war crimes? A: Harold PINTER
Q: Who wrote 'Notes on a Scandal' – later filmed with Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett? A: Zoe HELLER
Q: What is the proper medical name for the windpipe? A: TRACHEA
Q: What is the proper name for the Japanese art of flower arranging? A: IKEBANA
Q: From his August 2012 obituary in The Independent, who died aged 'treble 16, double 12'? A: Sid WADDELL
Q: At which weight did both Randolph Turpin and Nigel Benn win boxing world titles? A: MIDDLEWEIGHT
Q: Which darts player whose home town is Blackpool, has the nickname ‘The Rocket’? A: Ronnie BAXTER
Q: Who shaved her head to play the character Lt Ellen Ripley in the 1992 film ‘Alien3’? A: Sigourney WEAVER
Q: What was the title of the 2008 sequel to 2005’s ‘Batman Begins’? A: THE DARK KNIGHT
Q: Nicholas Cage is the nephew of which Oscar-winning film director? A: Francis Ford COPPOLA
Q: Which country's name in its own language is Druk Yul – i.e. 'Land of the Thunder Dragon'? A: BHUTAN
Q: US singer-songwriter Adam Levine is lead singer with which band? A: MAROON 5
Q: The scene of bitter fighting in 1942-43, which is also the largest of the Solomon Islands? A: GUADALCANAL
Q: The largest sub-species of brown bear takes its name from which archipelago off Alaska? A: KODIAK bear
Q: Which African antelope has species called Coke’s, Lelwel, Western, Swayne’s and Tora? A: HARTEBEEST
Q: Which cocktail contains tequila, orange-flavoured liqueur, and the juice of lime or lemon? A: MARGARITA
Q: Which long drink cocktail linked with Venice is a mix of sparkling wine and peach puree? A: BELLINI
Q: Who wrote the poem whose lengthy title is usually shortened to 'The Tale of Tsar Saltan'? A: Alexander PUSHKIN
Q: Who composed the 1791 opera entitled ‘La Clemenza di Tito’? A: Wolfgang Amadeus MOZART
Q: Which English County is known as The Land of The Prince Bishops? A: County DURHAM
Q: What mythical object did Sir Bedivere return to ‘The Lady of Avalon’? A: EXCALIBUR
Q: He died aged 79 in 2005; who was the legendary host of US TV’s ‘The Tonight Show’? A: Johnny CARSON
Q: Which Shipping Forecast Area was formerly known as Heligoland? A: GERMAN BIGHT
Q: Which animal’s head has been the trademark of Colman’s Mustard for over 150 years? A: BULL
Q: Which Greek god gives his name to a company famous for making handbags? A: HERMES
Q: Which Olympic gold medallist ran the first leg of the 8,000 strong Olympic Torch relay? A: Ben AINSLIE
Q: In a special live edition of ‘East Enders’, which character was the Olympic torch bearer? A: Billy MITCHELL
Q: AKA pharyngeal tonsils, what are located in the passage linking throat and nasal cavity? A: ADENOIDS
Q: What do we call bands of flexible fibrous connective tissue that links bones together? A: LIGAMENTS
Q: What do we call the fluid in the blood in which cells and corpuscles are suspended? A: PLASMA
Q: Who did Queen Victoria immediately succeed as British sovereign? A: WILLIAM IV
Q: William McGonagall penned a poem commemorating which December 1879 rail disaster? A: TAY BRIDGE
Q: Which two words usually appear vertically within parallel lines on modern cheques? A: ACCOUNT PAYEE
Q: Which often controversial global fashion brand was founded in Treviso in 1965? A: BENETTON
Q: What is the proper name of the 'stub' left in a chequebook once a cheque is detached? A: COUNTERFOIL
Q: Mariano Rajoy became Prime Minister of which EU country in 2011? A: SPAIN
Q: Former probation officer Leanne Wood was elected leader of which party in March 2012? A: PLAID CYMRU
Q: Nicknamed the 'The Pearl of the Danube', which capital is overlooked by János Hill? A: BUDAPEST
Q: Situated in Nevada, what is known as 'The Biggest Little City in the World'? A: RENO
Q: Nicknamed 'The Pearl of the Orient', which capital is bisected by the Pasig River? A: MANILA
Q: What name is given to the events of 30 January 1972 in Londonderry? A: BLOODY SUNDAY
Q: A son, his dad is Dwight Yorke; what is the first name of Katy Price's eldest child? A: HARVEY
Q: Which city hosted the opening stage of the Tour De France on 5 July 2014? A: LEEDS
Q: "Which living French movie star has been called ""a big, beautiful runaway truck of a man""?" A: Gerard DEPARDIEU
Q: Which of Elton John's singles was a tribute to a despatch rider killed in an accident? A: SONG FOR GUY
Q: Where was the last train going according to The Monkees in 1966? A: CLARKSVILLE
Q: Which muralist was married to fellow Mexican artist, Frida Kahlo? A: Diego RIVERA
Q: 40 days after Easter, by what name is ‘Holy Thursday’ also known to Christians? A: ASCENSION Day
Q: Who was the rather appropriately named Roman god of land boundaries? A: TERMINUS
Q: In 1998, whose widow became Nelson Mandela's third wife? A: Samora MACHEL
Q: Ashanti, referring to both a region and its peoples, is found in which African country? A: GHANA
Q: Whose face appeared with the word “Hope” on a poster created by Shepard Fairey? A: Barack OBAMA
Q: Which glassy, dark volcanic rock was used by some to make edged tools and arrowheads? A: OBSIDIAN
Q: Which pioneering Swiss psychologist proposed the theory of the collective unconscious? A: Carl JUNG
Q: Which solid can be generated by rotating an isosceles triangle about its line of symmetry? A: CONE
Q: Which German engineer gives his name to the four-stroke cycle of a petrol engine? A: Nikolaus OTTO
Q: Which New Zealand born actress and model was the second wife of Rod Stewart? A: Rachel HUNTER
Q: What was the 40 metre trawler ‘Sir William Hardy’ famously renamed in 1978? A: RAINBOW WARRIOR
Q: Which American actress and former model was the first wife of singer Rod Stewart? A: Alana HAMILTON
Q: Who painted ‘The Card Players’, one version of his selling for £154 million in 2011? A: Paul CEZANNE
Q: Which Russian playwright wrote ‘Uncle Vanya’ and ‘The Cherry Orchard’? A: Anton CHECKOV
Q: What was the name of the artist who died in French Polynesia in 1903, aged 54? A: Paul GAUGUIN
Q: In physics, the pivot about which a lever turns is generally known as a what? A: FULCRUM
Q: If you had queso in a Spanish restaurant, what would you be eating? A: CHEESE
Q: Katherina is the headstrong leading female character in which Shakespeare play? A: The TAMING OF THE SHREW
Q: What was the name of Little Orphan Annie’s dog? A: SANDY
Q: A player on the ‘Go’ square has thrown what score, if he/she has to pay £200 income tax? A: FOUR
Q: Battleship, thimble, iron, cannon, battleship and what else were the original six tokens? A: TOP HAT
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar for the 2008 film, ‘Slumdog Millionaire’? A: DANNY BOYLE
Q: What does the word ‘pulchritude’ mean? A: BEAUTY
Q: Fingermouse’s head, ears and whiskers were made of what? A: PAPER
Q: Who was the first person to be made an honorary citizen of the USA? A: Sir WINSTON CHURCHILL
Q: Which Portuguese province borders both the Mediterranean and the Atlantic? A: The ALGARVE
Q: What is the correct name for the bone commonly known as the breastbone? A: STERNUM
Q: What was Bangladesh called between 1947 and 1971? A: EAST PAKISTAN
Q: The wife of an earl has what equivalent female title? A: COUNTESS
Q: Who was the father of English King, Henry III? A: King JOHN
Q: To which year in the 90s did the Queen refer as her annus horribilis? A: 1992
Q: What ‘B’ was Daisy’s surname in ‘The Great Gatsby’? A: BUCHANAN
Q: What is the name of the character who is the protagonist in the ‘Die Hard’ film series? A: JOHN McCLANE
Q: Who played Stephen Hawking in the 2014 film, ‘The Theory of Everything’? A: EDDIE REDMAYNE
Q: Which English rugby club are the current Aviva champions? A: NORTHAMPTON
Q: In honour of Bobby Moore, what shirt number was retired by West Ham in 2008? A: SIX
Q: Which is the largest of the Baltic States by land area? A: LITHUANIA
Q: What was snooker player Cliff Thorburn’s nickname? A: THE GRINDER
Q: What was Sir Malcolm Sargent’s nickname? A: FLASH HARRY
Q: How many number one UK hit singles did The Who have? A: NONE
Q: Which prominent anti-war activist was born in Monmouthshire in 1872? A: BERTRAND RUSSELL
Q: In the Royal Navy, what is the only rank higher than that of admiral? A: ADMIRAL OF THE FLEET
Q: Who composed the 1870 ballet ‘Coppelia’? A: Leo DELIBES
Q: What is the capital and largest city of the Seychelles? A: VICTORIA
Q: What do the initials represent in the name of the HSBC bank? A: HONG KONG and SHANGHAI
Q: From 2005 to 2007, Shane Warne captained which English county side? A: HAMPSHIRE
Q: Which jockey won the English Derby four times between 1979 and 1994? A: WILLIE CARSON
Q: Who got to no.7 in the UK charts in 1977 with ‘Lovely Day’? A: BILL WITHERS
Q: What word connects a parrot with voting in an election? A: POLL
Q: What illness is an inflammation of the larynx and trachea, causing breathing difficulties? A: CROUP
Q: With what invention do you associate the name of Mr. Whitcomb Judson? A: ZIP fastener
Q: ‘Shamela’ (1741) was a parody of ‘Pamela’ (1740). Who wrote the latter? A: Samuel RICHARDSON
Q: In ‘Penny Lane’, who keeps a portrait of the Queen in his pocket? A: The FIREMAN
Q: In ‘A Whiter Shade of Pale’, who “told his tale”? A: The MILLER
Q: In skiing, what colour diamond denotes an expert trail on signs and trail maps? A: BLACK
Q: Who played the male lead in the Bond film ‘Never Say Never Again’? A: SEAN CONNERY
Q: Which boy band took its name from a character in the film Back To The Future? A: McFly
Q: Selenology is the study of what? A: The Moon
Q: Which non-alcoholic drink often consists of 50% orange juice and 50% lemonade? A: St Clements
Q: Which TV family lives at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which ITN newsreader also wrote three TV plays before leaving to work in Australia? A: Gordon Honeycomb
Q: Which famous river was discovered and first crossed by Spaniard Hernando de Soto? A: Mississippi
Q: Robert Burke and William Wills were 19th century explorers of which country? A: Australia
Q: Which fruity title from their album Islands was a 1983 top ten hit for Kajagoogoo? A: Big Apple
Q: Where did Fats Domino find his thrill in 1956? A: Blueberry Hill
Q: Which fish is often mistakenly called the ‘pike-perch’? A: Zander
Q: Which fish, Tinca tinca, do anglers call the ‘doctor fish’? A: Tench
Q: After Dublin which is Ireland’s most populous city? A: Cork
Q: The three Provinces wholly in the Republic are Leinster, Connaught and which other? A: Munster
Q: Where is the volcano Olympus Mons? A: On Mars
Q: Which musical instrument did Karen Carpenter normally play? A: Drums
Q: Kingsford Smith airport serves which major city? A: Sydney
Q: Which song from Mary Poppins won the Academy Award for Best Song? A: Chim Chim Cher-ee
Q: Whose first words are ‘How are you’? ‘You have been in Afghanistan I perceive’? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: Which heavenly body was Giotto sent to photograph in 1986?` A: Halley’s Comet
Q: The extinct Moa is believed to be the largest ever ………what? A: Bird
Q: Who was the ‘gentleman burglar’ created by E W Hornung? A: Raffles
Q: Nelson is a famous wine producing area in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: The sangiovese grape is chiefly used in the production of which Italian wine? A: Chianti
Q: Which sparkling wine is made chiefly in the Penedes region near Barcelona? A: Cava
Q: The winner of which famous race traditionally swigs milk from the bottle? A: Indianapolis 500
Q: In which sport is the term ‘bonk’ used meaning tiredness from lack of food? A: Cycling
Q: A French court banned parents from calling their daughter ……what? A: Nutella
Q: In which famous film was Frank Miller coming to kill Will Kane? A: High Noon
Q: A Lucy Stoner is a married woman who retains …….what? A: Her Maiden Surname
Q: What was the name of the computer that beat Gary Kasparov at chess in 1997? A: Deep Blue
Q: What allegedly crashed at Roswell, New Mexico in 1947? A: A UFO
Q: Who succeeded Moses as leader of the Israelites? A: Joshua
Q: A bonspiel is a tournament in which winter sport? A: Curling
Q: Who committed what became known as the West Port murders in Edinburgh in 1828? A: Burke & Hare
Q: What profession was followed by Grace O’Malley, Mary Read and Anne Bonny? A: Piracy
Q: For which organisation did the camp Jason King work? A: Department S
Q: Tasseomancy is the reading of what, to determine a person’s future? A: Tea Leaves
Q: By what name was the architect Charles-Edouard Jeanneret better known? A: Le Corbusier
Q: Who plays Alfred Hitchcock’s wife Alma in the movie Hitchcock? A: Helen Mirren
Q: With 19 so far who is by far the most Oscar nominated actress in history? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Who seized the throne in 1135 on the death of Henry I? A: Stephen
Q: Which famous fair was held for the first time at Smithfield in 1133? A: St Bartholomew’s Fair
Q: Which US Trade Union was led by the notorious Jimmy Hoffa? A: Teamsters
Q: What official position is currently held by Martin Rees? A: Astronomer Royal
Q: On a graph the abscissa is paired with what? A: Ordinate
Q: Which fictional pair vie for social supremacy in Tilling? A: Mapp & Lucia
Q: What is the lightest solid element? A: Lithium
Q: Helen Gurley Brown was editor of which magazine for 32 years? A: Cosmopolitan
Q: Who sold his wedding photos to Viz for a pound in 2002? A: Johnny Vegas
Q: What are characterised by patterns such as loops, whorls and arches? A: Fingerprints
Q: Which novel tells the tragic story of displaced migrants George Milton and Lennie Small? A: Of Mice and Men
Q: What is the subject of Hemingway’s Death in the Afternoon? A: Bull Fighting
Q: Which part of a flower is responsible for the production of pollen grains? A: Anther
Q: What kind of footwear did Jimmy Nail have in 1994? A: Crocodile Shoes
Q: Which film star began life as Michel Shalhoub? A: Omar Sharif
Q: Who composed the To October Symphony? A: Shostakovich
Q: Which character was once played by Peter Dean in Eastenders? A: Pete Beale
Q: Which film star began life as Issur Danielovitch? A: Kirk Douglas
Q: Which character was once played by Ken Morley in Coronation Street? A: Reg Holdsworth
Q: What was the name of the princess in The Sleeping Beauty? A: Aurora
Q: Who was the compere for the first National Lottery draw in 1994? A: Noel Edmunds
Q: From which part of the pig are Bath Chaps made? A: Cheeks
Q: What are you doing if you open with a Ruy Lopez? A: Playing Chess
Q: What kind of bird is a marabou? A: Stork
Q: What name do Salvation Army members give to their places of worship? A: Citadels
Q: What are formed by the process of ‘orogeny’? A: Mountains
Q: What do we call the elongated hill in the shape of a half-buried egg formed by glacial ice? A: Drumlin
Q: What do we call lava while it is still underground? A: Magma
Q: What was the name of the local coffee shop in Friends? A: Central Perk
Q: What is the capital of the Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur region of France? A: Marseilles
Q: Graz is the second-largest city in which country? A: Austria
Q: Ian Gillan, Graham Bonnet and David Coverdale sang for which band? A: Deep Purple
Q: What is Ozzy Osbourne’s real first name? A: John
Q: Who were the twin sons of Zeus and Leda? A: Castor & Pollux
Q: Who compared television to a ‘penny Punch and Judy show’? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Which part of New York was named after the Dutch word for rabbit? A: Coney Island
Q: The Peppermint Lounge in New York was the launch pad for which 60’s dance craze? A: The Twist
Q: With what is Cornish Yarg cheese usually wrapped? A: Nettles
Q: Which inlet of the Irish Sea separates Cumbria from Dumfries & Galloway? A: Solway Firth
Q: The Tay Bridge runs south from which city? A: Dundee
Q: What is Britain’s most southerly National Park? A: Dartmoor
Q: The support about which a lever pivots? A: Fulcrum
Q: Which iconic gangster film begins with a Tony Bennett rendition of Rags To Riches? A: Goodfellas
Q: Where did Gabriel Byrne pretend to execute John Turturro? A: Miller’s Crossing
Q: Who composed the opera Cavalleria Rusticana? A: Mascagni
Q: Mimi is the heroine of which opera? A: La Boheme
Q: What are the women’s trousers cut to look like a skirt? A: Culottes
Q: Which famous brewery is situated in Banbury, Oxfordshire? A: Hook Norton
Q: Who was America’s ‘Public Enemy No.1’ in the 1920s and 30s? A: John Dillinger
Q: What is carrageen or Irish Moss? A: Seaweed
Q: What is the general term for a three-panelled altar piece? A: Triptych
Q: Richard Ashcroft fronted which 1990’s band from Wigan? A: The Verve
Q: The French town of Montelimar is famous for the production of which confection? A: Nougat
Q: Which pop star was depicted as Christ crucified at Marylebone parish church London? A: Pete Doherty
Q: What was the name of the bear in Rainbow? A: Bungle
Q: The American woodchuck is also known by what name? A: Groundhog
Q: Which creature has a symbiotic relationship with the Egyptian plover? A: Crocodile
Q: What was the age that no-one wanted to reach in Logan’s Run? A: 30
Q: Which play begins ‘Now fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour draws on apace’? A: A Midsummer Night’s Dream
Q: In Othello what did the bard mean by ‘the beast with two backs’? A: Sexual Intercourse
Q: Who took the name Sebastian Melmoth while living in exile? A: Oscar Wilde
Q: The Talmud was written in Hebrew and which other language? A: Aramaic
Q: Who said ‘If only I had known, I should have become a watch maker’? A: Albert Einstein
Q: What was the only World War II battle fought in South America? A: Battle of the River Plate
Q: Common and pygmy are the only species of which large mammal? A: Hippopotamus
Q: Helen Graham is the eponymous heroine of which Bronte novel? A: The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
Q: Who refuses Mr St John Rivers’ offer of marriage? A: Jane Eyre
Q: Barry Fairbrother collapsed and died in the first episode of which recent BBC drama? A: The Casual Vacancy
Q: Which 10-part Channel 4 drama starring Julie Walters depicts the 1930’s British Raj? A: Indian Summers
Q: We have motorways, the Germans have autobahns, what does Italy have? A: Autostrade
Q: Which city is the eastern terminus of the Trans-Siberian railway? A: Vladivostok
Q: Which Prime Minister lost the North American colonies for Britain? A: Lord North
Q: Brazil has one of the world’s largest soccer stadia – what is it called? A: Maracana
Q: In which capital city were the 1928 Summer Olympic Games held? A: Amsterdam
Q: The song Don’t Rain On My Parade features in which musical? A: Funny Girl
Q: The Ivy League university Princeton is in which US state? A: New Jersey
Q: The song How To Handle A Woman features in which musical? A: Camelot
Q: The Ivy League university Yale is in which US state? A: Connecticut
Q: What was the surname of Mamas and Papas singer Mama Cass? A: Elliot
Q: Lauren Bacall was married at different times to Humphrey Bogart and which other actor? A: Jason Robards
Q: A traditional gift for a 20th wedding anniversary should be made of what? A: CHINA
Q: In what county are both Woburn Abbey and Leighton Buzzard Light Railway? A: BEDFORDSHIRE
Q: V is the symbol for which chemical element? A: VANADIUM
Q: In poker, what hand is next above two pairs? A: THREE OF A KIND
Q: In an 1883 novel, what was the first name of Mr. Hands, a sailor on The Hispaniola? A: ISRAEL
Q: What was the surname of the Chris who topped the charts with ‘Out of Time’ in 1966? A: FARLOWE
Q: Chris Andrews got to no.3 in ’65 with a title whose initials were YM. What was it? A: YESTERDAY MAN
Q: ‘Let’s Dance’ and ‘The More I See You’ were top five hits for which Chris? A: MONTEZ
Q: Sometimes called golden chain, which genus of small tree is poisonous in all its parts? A: LABURNUM
Q: According to Ophelia in ‘Hamlet’, what can also be called ‘herb of grace’? A: RUE
Q: What genus of flowering plants in the carnation family is also known as ‘baby’s breath’? A: GYPSOPHILA
Q: What motorway links the M1 at Rotherham to the M62 near Goole? A: M18
Q: Object, Nature, Random, Person, Action and World are terms used in what game? A: ARTICULATE!
Q: Which Monarch was his great, great grandfather? A: HENRY VII
Q: Lewis Hamilton was born in which home counties town? A: STEVENAGE
Q: What is the only word uttered by the unusual visitor, in Edgar Allen Poe’s 1845 poem? A: NEVERMORE
Q: In the world of equestrian sport, what does 3DE mean? A: THREE-DAY EVENTING
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of the hearth and the household? A: VESTA
Q: In the Harry Potter books and films, what is the first name of Harry’s uncle? A: VERNON
Q: Which poet wrote about the charms of Miss Joan Hunter Dunn? A: John BETJEMAN
Q: Which 1979 film is based on Conrad’s story ‘Heart of Darkness’? A: APOCALYPSE NOW
Q: Which autumn-flowering bulbous plant is sometimes known as ‘the belladonna lily’? A: AMARYLLIS
Q: What can be a drink in Britain, a vegetable in the USA, and a leisure activity in both? A: SQUASH
Q: What chemical term describes a compound that has had the water removed? A: ANHYDRIDE
Q: In Shakespeare’s ‘The Merchant of Venice’, what was the title character’s first name? A: ANTONIO
Q: The Adam’s Apple helps to protect the walls and the front section of what bodily part? A: LARYNX
Q: What part of a horse takes the strain of the collar? A: WITHERS
Q: What was the middle name of Mark Chapman, John Lennon’s killer? A: DAVID
Q: According to legend, which Greek philosopher slept in a tub? A: DIOGENES
Q: ‘The Manassa Mauler’ was the nickname of which heavyweight boxing champion? A: Jack DEMPSEY
Q: What acid does the stomach use to break down food? A: HYDROCHLORIC
Q: In which county is Bosworth Field, site of the famous battle of 1485? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: Charles Dickens was born in which English town in 1812? A: PORTSMOUTH
Q: What name do Toyota give to their luxury vehicle division? A: LEXUS
Q: Which Asian city shares its name with a river on the Isle of Wight? A: MEDINA
Q: Six states of the USA have mountains whose names include what animal? A: BEAR
Q: Which 74-year-old veteran actor received a knighthood in the New Year Honours? A: JOHN HURT
Q: In which month in 2015 will the American Football Superbowl be played? A: FEBRUARY
Q: WWII was brought to a close when Japan surrendered in what month? A: SEPTEMBER
Q: In the dead parrot sketch, what breed was the parrot? A: NORWEGIAN BLUE
Q: In ‘Monty Python and the Holy Grail’, what was desired by the knights who say ‘Ni’? A: A SHRUBBERY
Q: Which Scottish King was killed when his horse fell from a cliff at Kinghorn, Fife? A: Alexander III
Q: In 1973, who joined the EEC at the same time as Britain and Ireland? A: DENMARK
Q: What word describes the property of a metal that allows it to be drawn out into wire? A: DUCTILITY
Q: By what name is hydrated magnesium sulphate better known? A: EPSOM SALTS
Q: What is the SI derived unit of radioactivity? A: BECQUEREL
Q: Whose law states that “Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion”? A: PARKINSON
Q: Which US author (1889-1961) had a brief stint as an ambulance driver in WWI? A: Ernest HEMINGWAY
Q: What do the letters T.T. represent, in the Isle of Man T.T. Race? A: TOURIST TROPHY
Q: Who has been the tallest British Prime Minister since WWI? A: James CALLAGHAN
Q: Which Spanish king sent the armada to conquer England? A: PHILIP II
Q: What is the chemical symbol for manganese? A: Mn
Q: What was the surname of the central family in the tv series ‘Bread’? A: BOSWELL
Q: What type of flower derives its name from the French for ‘lion’s tooth’? A: DANDELION
Q: What sort of holiday was the subject of ‘Three Men on the Bummel’ (1900)? A: CYCLING tour
Q: Who celebrated his 100th birthday on May 29th, 2003, but died two months later? A: BOB HOPE
Q: Where might you expect to meet “a pretty nurse … selling poppies from a tray”? A: PENNY LANE
Q: What was the title of Peter Wright’s controversial 1987 book? (One word will suffice.) A: SPYCATCHER
Q: Jai Alai is a variation of what court sport? A: PELOTA
Q: Who won the 2014 Men’s US Open Golf Championship? A: MARTIN KAYMER
Q: Jazz. Who had four Top 10 hits in the 60s, including ‘Sukiyaki’ and ‘Midnight in Moscow’? A: KENNY BALL and his Jazzmen
Q: What was the first name of the Ms. Loos who wrote ‘Gentlemen Prefer Blondes’? A: ANITA
Q: What is the oldest British classic flat race? A: ST. LEGER
Q: Where is the Happy Valley racecourse? A: HONG KONG
Q: Which French statesman (1758-1794) was nicknamed ‘The Incorruptible’? A: Maximilien ROBESPIERRE
Q: Which detective was in charge of the hunt for the Great Train Robber, Ronnie Biggs? A: Jack Slipper
Q: What C is the alternative name for the Water Moccasin,the U.S.A.’s only venomous water snake? A: Cottonmouth
Q: What was the name of the sheepdog in the Perishers cartoon strip? A: Boot
Q: What was the title used by the British Prime Minister from 1828 to 1830? A: Duke of Wellington
Q: Around which city did Charles I make his H.Q. during the Civil War? A: Oxford
Q: What became the world’s tallest building in 1311 A.D.? A: Lincoln Cathedral
Q: In which British city can you find the Spinnaker Tower? A: Portsmouth
Q: Odette is the central character of which ballet? A: Swan Lake
Q: Which ballet is sub-titled the Girl with the Enamel Eyes? A: Coppelia
Q: What forced Nijinsky to retire at a comparatively young age from ballet? A: Mental illness
Q: In the Universal films what was the name of Frankenstein’s hunchback? A: Igor
Q: Who played Professor Fate’s assistant, Max, in the Great Escape? A: Peter Falk
Q: Which river did the English cross to fight the Battle of Agincourt 700 years ago? A: Somme
Q: Which month of 2015 saw the 900th anniversary of the signing of the Magna Carta? A: June
Q: By population which is the largest island on Earth? A: Java
Q: By population which is the largest island outside Asia? A: Great Britain
Q: By population which is the largest island in the Americas? A: Hispaniola
Q: In season 2014/15 whose 48 goals won him the European Golden shoe? A: Ronaldo
Q: In season 2014/15 whose 26 goals won him the Premiership Golden boot? A: Aguero
Q: Which is Britain’s bestselling brand of bread? A: Warburtons
Q: Who were the puppets from Zog who were on the Big Breakfast? A: Zig and Zag
Q: Frank Beard is the only clean shaven member of which group? A: Z.Z.Top
Q: Alphabetically which is the last element in the periodic table? A: Zirconium
Q: Which vegetable is present in a DuBarry soup? A: Cauliflower
Q: What pulse is used in an Indian dish Dhansak? A: Lentils
Q: To which animal does the adjective lapine apply? A: Rabbit
Q: Egyptian, banded and King are all types of which snake? A: Cobra
Q: Which type of bats generally do not use echolocation to find food? A: Fruit bats
Q: In 1941 Josef Jakobs was the last spy to be executed where? A: Tower of London
Q: In 1830 William Watts and George Davis were the last pirates to be hanged where? A: Execution Dock
Q: In 1783 John Austin was the last highwayman to be hung where? A: Tyburn
Q: Members of which family won five Nobel prizes? A: Curie
Q: In 1802 which President of the Royal Society produced a crude electric light? A: Davy
Q: Which four words appeared under Dan Dare on the Eagle front page? A: Pilot of the Future
Q: Which pilot first appeared when he agreed to make the risky Alderaan run? A: Han Solo
Q: What was the name of the evil robotic race in Transformers? A: Decepticons
Q: Who tried to destroy He Man from his base in Castle Greyskull? A: Skeletor
Q: Which organisation were the sworn enemies of G.I.Joe/Action Man? A: Cobra
Q: Which actress has starred opposite Tom Hanks in three films? A: Meg Ryan
Q: Which river flows through Rochester and Maidstone? A: Medway
Q: For which club did Roy of the Rovers play? A: Melchester Rovers
Q: In terms of population which is the largest city in North America? A: Mexico City
Q: Which composer wrote the Hebrides Overture? A: Mendelssohn
Q: Who was the Roman god of trickery and thieves? A: Mercury
Q: Which bird is known in the USA as a pigeon hawk? A: Merlin
Q: “Murder she said” is based on which story by Agatha Christie? A: 4.50 from Paddington
Q: Who had their twelfth UK No. 1 single with their cover of Mandy? A: Westlife
Q: Which girl did Hot Chocolate take to No.3 in the UK charts in 1973? A: Emma
Q: What nationality is the US Open 2013 winner Martin Kaymer? A: German
Q: What is the current name for what used to be the Indian city of Madras? A: Chennai
Q: Which city was previously called Leopoldville? A: Kinshasa
Q: Which country was once called Upper Peru? A: Bolivia
Q: An annual festival in Bayreuth in Germany celebrates which composer? A: Wagner
Q: Which unsuccessful model of car was named after Henry Ford’s son? A: Edsel
Q: Which company made a model called the Boxer? A: Ferrari
Q: What name is given to a tall thin glass intended for champagne? A: Flute
Q: Which TV spy, who first became famous in the 60’s, did Henry Cavill play In a 2015 film? A: Napoleon Solo
Q: What is the state capital of Louisiana? A: Baton Rouge
Q: On whose radio show did Kenneth Williams play Rambling Sid Rumpo? A: Kenneth Horne
Q: Who played Rose Tyler on Doctor Who? A: Billy Piper
Q: Which BL car launched in 1983 was notorious for its voice synthesizer? A: Maestro
Q: The Malinois, the Tevuren and the Talbot all come from which country? A: Belgium
Q: Which gangster Meyer Lansky founded Murder Incorporated? A: Lucky Luciano
Q: Which cartoon gunfighter was so fast he could outdraw his shadow? A: Lucky Luke
Q: What is the World’s largest bird of prey? A: Andean Condor
Q: Which is the fastest running British bird? A: Pheasant
Q: Which birds are classed as strigiformes? A: Owls
Q: Who were the two brothers of Zeus? A: Poseidon and Hades
Q: In Germanic mythology what sort of monster was Fafnir? A: Dragon
Q: Which hero saved Andromeda from the sea monster Celus? A: Perseus
Q: Who played both the Kray twins in the film Legend? A: Tom Hardy
Q: Who was the stupidest member of the Bash Street Kids? A: Smiffy
Q: “Make me” is the twentieth bestselling book in which series? A: Jack Reacher
Q: Which Formula 1 Grand Prix takes place on the Marina Bay circuit? A: Singapore
Q: Which World 1 American general was nicknamed “Black Jack”? A: Pershing
Q: Which Formula 1 circuit takes place on the Yas Marina circuit? A: Abu Dhabi
Q: What was the Roman name for the city of Paris? A: Lutetia
Q: Who wrote the play “Racing Demon”? A: David Hare
Q: Which secret establishment was known ‘Station X’ during the Second World War? A: Bletchley Park
Q: What colour overalls are worn by caddies during the US Masters golf tournament? A: White
Q: Which Asian nation was the first to make it illegal to smoke in public or to sell tobacco? A: Bhutan
Q: The sweet-tasting root of which plant is sometimes known as ‘Spanish’? A: Liquorice
Q: What is the title of the 45-minute extended edition of QI? A: QI XL
Q: In 2015, who replaced Dara Ó Briain as the presenter of The Apprentice: You’re Fired? A: Jack Dee
Q: The theme music to which 1960s TV series was based on the folk song Johnny Todd? A: Z-Cars
Q: Which brand of spirit uses a black bat in its logo? A: Bacardi
Q: Greetings from Asbury Park, NJ was the 1973 debut album of which artist? A: Bruce Springsteen
Q: Which nerve is the longest and widest in the human body? A: Sciatic nerve
Q: Where in the human body is the anatomical snuffbox? A: Hand
Q: Who is the only man to have captained England at both cricket and football? A: R. E. Foster
Q: Which chemical element can exist in white, red, violet, or black forms? A: Phosphorus
Q: Which among the noble gases is the most abundant in the atmosphere? A: Argon
Q: ‘What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?’ is the opening line of which poem? A: Anthem for Doomed Youth
Q: Joan, the Fair Maid of Kent, was the mother of which king of England? A: Richard II
Q: Asparagus Island lies off the coast of which English county? A: Cornwall
Q: Which Australian hard-rock band was formed by Angus and Malcolm Young? A: AC/DC
Q: The ‘two-minute hate’ is featured in which novel of the twentieth century? A: 1984
Q: Who was the nemesis of farmers Boggis, Bunce, and Bean? A: Fantastic Mr Fox
Q: Which is the only minor key signature that has no sharps or flats? A: A minor
Q: By what name is Delores Haze known in the title of a controversial book of 1955? A: Lolita
Q: How is Anne Catherick referred to in the title of a book by Wilkie Collins? A: The Woman in White
Q: Who played consultant surgeon Mr Gordon Thorpe in Only When I Laugh? A: Richard Wilson
Q: Who played Raquel’s former husband, ex-policeman Roy Slater in Only Fools and Horses? A: Jim Broadbent
Q: Who played the mad legless Captain Rum in the second series of Blackadder? A: Tom Baker
Q: Lieutenant Pinkerton is a character in which opera by Puccini? A: Madame Butterfly
Q: The Bridal Chorus AKA ‘Here comes the Bride’ appears in which opera by Wagner? A: Lohengrin
Q: On which of London’s tube lines do trains reach the greatest speeds? A: Metropolitan
Q: Which saint lived on a small platform at the top of a pillar in Aleppo for 37 years? A: St Simeon Stylites
Q: Officially, what is Canada’s national summer sport? A: Lacrosse
Q: What is secreted by parotid glands? A: Saliva
Q: Which 1985 treaty led to the abolition of border controls in much of Europe? A: Schengen Agreement
Q: Who played Cilla Black in the 2014 ITV drama series Cilla? A: Sheridan Smith
Q: What is the term for any playing card which can assume the value of another? A: Wild card
Q: What is the dominant colour of New York’s Staten Island Ferries? A: Orange
Q: Which body and its moons were visited and studied by the New Horizons probe in July? A: Pluto
Q: What is the name of the mother craft of Philae, the probe currently sitting on Comet 67P? A: Rosetta
Q: Guaranteeing $50 million, whose basic contract is the most lucrative in Formula 1? A: Sebastian Vettel
Q: Part of the Pope’s regalia, what is the more common name for the Piscatory Ring? A: Fisherman’s Ring
Q: Also a band, what is the vanilla-flavoured, chocolate-free equivalent of a brownie? A: A Blondie
Q: Which physical quantity is calculated by multiplying a body’s mass by its velocity? A: Momentum
Q: From which S.E. London open space do participants start the London Marathon? A: Blackheath
Q: Which five word title is engraved on the letter box at 10 Downing Street? A: First Lord of the Treasury
Q: Who led the ill-fated expedition which set sail in 1845 in HMS Erebus and HMS Terror? A: Sir John Franklin
Q: Which is the only species of penguin likely to be seen in the wild north of the Equator? A: Galapagos penguin
Q: Which religious group calls its places of worship Kingdom Hall? A: Jehovah’s Witnesses
Q: What is the memorable common name for the flower myosotis? A: Forget-me-not
Q: In triathlon, what is the term for the transfer between disciplines? A: Transition
Q: In which EU country did havarti cheese originate? A: Denmark
Q: Echoing its Scottish equivalent, what new name did English Heritage adopt in April 2015? A: Historic England
Q: Who voiced Lady Penelope in the original Thunderbirds series? A: Sylvia Anderson
Q: With eight active distilleries, which is the Hebrides’ most prolific whisky-producing island? A: Islay
Q: What kind of chemical transmits social information among members of the same species? A: Pheromone
Q: Which tube station locates and describes someone “eight stops short of Upminster”? A: Barking
Q: Which number do bingo callers link with “The Brighton Line”? A: 59
Q: Which Italian invented the first battery? A: Alessandro Volta
Q: Which UK Prime Minister wrote 19 novels including Coningsby, Sybil and Endymion? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: What is the specific term for a female ruf? A: Reeve
Q: Which Yorkshire stately home was the main location for Brideshead Revisited? A: Castle Howard
Q: Which flesh-and-blood actor played Popeye the Sailor on film? A: Robin Williams
Q: Which Hampshire stately home is the main location for Downton Abbey? A: Highclere Castle
Q: Which top flight British football team only adopted team numbers in 1960? A: Celtic FC
Q: Who described his troops – the British army - as ‘the scum of the earth’? A: Duke of Wellington
Q: Which beautiful youth of Greek myth was killed by a boar while out hunting? A: Adonis
Q: In the world of computing what is an ISP? A: Internet Service Provider
Q: Which wading bird has varieties called ‘whooping’ and ‘demoiselle’? A: Crane
Q: Which Turner Prize-winning artist has an alter-ego named Claire? A: Grayson Perry
Q: In which war film did Richard Attenborough play ‘Big X’? A: The Great Escape
Q: Which African capital has a name meaning ‘New Flower’? A: Addis Ababa
Q: Which word now used loosely, originally described rum diluted with water? A: Grog
Q: Which poet’s mother, sister and lover were all called Fanny? A: Keats
Q: Which fashion house produces the perfume ‘Bamboo’? A: Gucci
Q: Who made a cameo appearance in Die Another Day as fencing instructor Verity? A: Madonna
Q: Which double Oscar winner plays the villain in the latest film Spectre? A: Christoph Waltz
Q: ‘He’s all England needs – another queen who can’t dress’ by Joan Rivers? A: Boy George
Q: Who was the rich king of Lydia renowned for his wealth? A: Croesus
Q: Who rode from Boston to Lexington to warn US forces of a British Approach? A: Paul Revere
Q: What name is given to the interference caused to wave patterns by an object or gap? A: Diffraction
Q: Which is the only stretch of coastline to be designated a British National Park? A: Pembrokeshire Coast
Q: Which Scottish loch is deepest at the maximum depth? A: Loch Ness
Q: What is the plural of matrix? A: Matrices
Q: What is an Alaskan Malamute? A: Dog
Q: What is the main ingredient of the Swiss dish Rosti? A: Potatoes
Q: From what illness did King George VI die? A: Lung Cancer
Q: Which condiment is made from reduced trebbiano grape juice? A: Balsamic Vinegar
Q: What is the collective term for freemasons? A: A Lodge
Q: Dr Tertius Lydgate is always plagued by financial troubles in which classic novel? A: Middlemarch
Q: In which adventure story does the magistrate Dr Livesey feature? A: Treasure Island
Q: Who is to take over from Stephen Fry in the next series of Q.I.? A: Sandi Toksvig
Q: In which French city does the Pont Saint-Benezet only partly span the river Rhone? A: Avignon
Q: In New York the Verrazano Narrows Bridge links Staten Island with which other borough? A: Brooklyn
Q: Which bridge was inscribed as a ‘World Heritage Site’ in July this year? A: The Forth Bridge
Q: Who are the Brave Blossoms? A: Japanese Rugby Team
Q: Johanna Konta is the new British female No.1 in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Parsees are followers of which religion? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: The five ‘K’s feature in which religion? A: Sikhism
Q: Where did Tecwen Whittock cough when he shouldn’t have done in 2003? A: On Who Wants To Be A Millionaire
Q: In military slang what are ‘Ack Emma’ and ‘Pip Emma’? A: AM and PM
Q: Where do Catholics believe their souls wait for the atonement of sins before entering heaven? A: Purgatory
Q: Which huge commercial chain is named after a character in the novel Moby Dick? A: Starbucks
Q: Which kind of animals are associated with the word ‘lapine’? A: Rabbits
Q: What is the chief ingredient of a ‘dhansak’ curry? A: Lentils
Q: Until 1968 which official could censor British theatre? A: Lord Chamberlain
Q: On a weather map ‘isohyets’ link places of equal ………what? A: Rainfall
Q: The first major battle of the English Civil War ended in stalemate in 1642 – what was it? A: Edge Hill
Q: Which Archbishop of Canterbury was beheaded as an enemy of Parliament in 1645? A: Laud
Q: Which title was bestowed upon Oliver Cromwell in 1653? A: Lord Protector
Q: Which film sees the brothers Marcus Et Spencius slave trading company? A: Carry On Cleo
Q: Risotto is usually made with which type of rice? A: Arborio
Q: Which fruit is used in the preparation of Eve’s Pudding? A: Apples
Q: In the West Indies which is the largest of the Leeward Islands? A: Antigua
Q: Which intra-continental ridge system runs right through Kenya from north to south? A: Great Rift Valley
Q: What physical feature do all pinnipeds have? A: Flippers
Q: The hamadryas is a species of which monkey? A: Baboon
Q: What kind of mammal is a sika? A: Deer
Q: Which Smiths guitarist co-wrote many of the band’s hits with Morrisey? A: Johnny Marr
Q: In what part of the body is the deltoid muscle? A: Shoulder
Q: The international car number plate GBY represents where? A: Malta
Q: Bingo slang ‘dancing queen’ represents which number? A: 17
Q: The international car number plate GBZ represents where? A: Gibraltar
Q: Bingo slang ‘droopy drawers’ represents which number? A: 44
Q: Which US city is nicknamed ‘Lost Wages’? A: Las Vegas
Q: DJ Kenny Everett allegedly gave the BBC which nickname? A: The Beeb
Q: Which foreign political leader is nicknamed 'Bibi'? A: Netanyahu
Q: Which wartime nickname was shared by the 7th Armoured Division and the 8th Army? A: Desert Rats
Q: Which television presenter is nicknamed The Hamster? A: Richard Hammond
Q: The Sentinel serves which Midlands city? A: Stoke-on-Trent
Q: What name is given to the area of large country houses around Worksop? A: The Dukeries
Q: Where is England's most complete workhouse to be found? A: Southwell
Q: Which manager appeared on TV's Fast Show? A: Ron Manager
Q: Who became manager of Melchester Rovers in 1978? A: Roy Race
Q: Fused glass powder is called what? A: Enamel
Q: Which black, igneous rock was used by the Mayans to make their sword blades? A: Obsidian
Q: Which shell-fish soup originated in the north-east of America? A: Chowder
Q: The most eastern part of Massachussetts is called what? A: Cape Cod
Q: In 1962 who became Margot Fonteyn's dance partner? A: Nureyev
Q: A popular cookery program of the 1990's took its name from the bingo call for which number? A: 88
Q: American films use which fictional area code in telephone numbers? A: 555
Q: Development of which aero-engine sent Rolls-Royce into receivership in 1971? A: RB211
Q: Garfield Sobers first captained the West Indies against England in which year? A: 0011
Q: James Bond, 007, had four colleagues: 006, 008, 009 and which other? A: 0011
Q: What did Dirty Harry say was the most powerful handgun in the world? A: .44 Magnum
Q: Alan Partridge drove from national to local broadcasting down which road? A: A11
Q: Whiff-Whaff and Gossima lost out as brand names to which rival, according to Boris Johnson? A: Ping-Pong
Q: Christopher Marlowe was murdered 'while playing at tables'. What is 'tables' now called? A: Backgammon
Q: A castrated chicken is called what? A: Capon
Q: In which capital of the British Isles would you find the Royal Canal? A: Dublin
Q: Which canal links the Grand Union Canal to the Limehouse Cut in London? A: Regents
Q: The Royal Military Canal separates which area from the rest of England? A: Romney Marsh
Q: The Soviets invaded which Baltic country in November 1939? A: Finland
Q: Where did world's largest tank engagement begin in July 1943? A: Kursk
Q: The Arabic phrase 'As-salamu alaykum' is abbreviated to which word? A: Salaam
Q: Which Hawaiian word has come to mean both hello and goodbye? A: Aloha
Q: Which Hebrew word is often used to mean both hello and goodbye? A: Shalom
Q: What was the title of Stevie Wonder's 1977 tribute to Duke Ellington? A: Sir Duke
Q: Darts had their last Top Ten hit in 1979 with which song? A: Duke of Earl
Q: Which trio had their first No 1 album with 'Duke' in 1980? A: Genesis
Q: Which region of France was renamed after the apple brandy distilled there? A: Calvados
Q: Which brand of whisky shares its name with a ship and a Scottish shirt? A: Cuty Sark
Q: In which 1980 film does Ted Striker describe his wartime experiences in Drambuie and Daiquiri? A: Airplane!
Q: Manchester Trousers are made of Manchester cloth, which is another name for what? A: Corduroy
Q: Which peninsula marks the southern end of the Gulf of Mexico? A: Yucatan
Q: The Mississippi enters the sea in which state of the USA? A: Louisiana
Q: Which radio programme used 'Calling All Workers' as its theme tune? A: Music While You Work
Q: Which British designer allegedly invented both the miniskirt and later hot pants? A: Mary Quant
Q: Which model controversially wore a mini-dress to the Melbourne races in October 1965? A: Jean Shrimpton
Q: Which Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced old age pensions and national insurance? A: Lloyd George
Q: Who said 'There is no finer investment than putting milk in babies'? A: Churchill
Q: Which country adopted an all green flag in November 1977? A: Libya
Q: In which year did Apollo 8 become the first manned mission to orbit the moon? A: 1968
Q: Where is Britain's National Space Centre? A: Leicester
Q: Iago in Shakespeare’s Othello uses what term for sheep mating? A: Tup
Q: In which Japanese form of Buddhism is meditation most important? A: Zen
Q: On the radio for years, Mrs Dale worried about who? A: Jim
Q: The word 'stannary' refers to which metal? A: Tin
Q: There are four types of wetland: swamp, marsh, bog and what? A: Fen
Q: In standard English which three letters convert a verb into a gerund? A: ING
Q: Which of his marshals did Napoleon call 'the bravest of the brave'? A: Ney
Q: John Wayne played which part in the 1939 film 'Stagecoach'? A: The Ringo Kid
Q: If Wayne Morris played Kid Galahad in 1937, who played him in the 1962 remake? A: Elvis Presley
Q: In which book does a boar named Old Major inspire a revolution? A: Animal Farm
Q: What is James Bond's naval rank? A: Commander
Q: Burke and Wills crossed which continent in an 1860 expedition? A: Australia
Q: 'London Calling' was a 1980 hit song for which group? A: The Clash
Q: Blondie's hit song 'Call Me' comes from the soundtrack to which 1980 film? A: American Gigolo
Q: Henry Cavendish, whose tomb is in Derby Cathedral, discovered which element? A: Hydrogen
Q: Periods of the year with distinctive climates are called what? A: Seasons
Q: Diplopodology is the study of which many-legged arthropods? A: Millipede
Q: In astronomy an ‘event horizon’ surrounds which kind of region? A: Black Hole
Q: Who was the first Englishman to win the Formula One Drivers Championship? A: Mike Hawthorn
Q: Which Chinese philosophical system translates into English as ‘Wind – Water’? A: Feng Shui
Q: What are the water buses or water taxi’s in Venice called? A: Vaporetto
Q: Who made up the panel on Juke Box Jury on the only occasion it had 5 members not 4? A: The Rolling Stones
Q: Which herb is commonly used to flavour the tomato on pizza toppings? A: Oregano
Q: Ouzel is an old name for the turdus merula aka which common garden bird? A: Blackbird
Q: Which nursery rhyme characters were the victims of a triple caudectomy? A: Three Blind Mice
Q: Who delivers the black spot to Billy Bones in Treasure Island? A: Blind Pew
Q: In which film series does Keanu Reeves play a computer hacker with the alias Neo? A: The Matrix
Q: Who played Ian Dury in Sex and Drugs and Rock n’ Roll? A: Andy Serkis
Q: What was the name of Jodie Foster’s character in Bugsy Malone? A: Tallulah
Q: In Ancient Rome what was a ‘Lustrum? A: Period of Five Years
Q: Which flower appears on the crest of the Borough of Saffron Walden? A: Crocus
Q: What is the green number on a British roulette wheel? A: Zero
Q: Who wrote The Compleat Angler? A: Isaac Walton
Q: Which country gave Idi Amin sanctuary from 1980 until his death in 2003? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: For which county was Gary Sobers playing when he hit six sixes in one over? A: Nottinghamshire
Q: Which King novel was set at the Overlook Hotel? A: The Shining
Q: Under which other name did King write novels in the 1970s? A: Bachman
Q: Which football club’s ground is closest to the river Mersey? A: Stockport County
Q: In the Sermon on the Mount who did Christ say ‘shall be called the children of God’? A: The Peacemakers
Q: Which king was the husband of Jezebel? A: Ahab
Q: Which famous Elizabethan was executed for treason by King James in 1618? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: What do you get if you multiply volts by amperes? A: Watts
Q: Which is the largest city within the Arctic Circle? A: Murmansk
Q: Lake Eyre is the lowest point of which country? A: Australia
Q: Chicory Tip’s release Son of My Father was the first UK No.1 to feature which instrument? A: Synthesizer
Q: Tommy and Tuppence Beresford were the leading characters in which drama series? A: Partners in Crime
Q: The Plaka is the old historical neighbourhood of which capital city? A: Athens
Q: Which instrument was primarily played by band leader Count Basie? A: Piano
Q: What nationality was the first woman to reach the summit of Mount Everest? A: Japanese
Q: What on the human body are the supercilia? A: Eyebrows
Q: The chairman of which committee oversees Conservative Party leadership elections? A: 1922 Committee
Q: Which small marine creatures make up the genus hippocampus? A: Sea Horses
Q: Which river has Newport at its head and Cowes at its mouth? A: River Medina
Q: Which instrument has a name that is Italian for ‘small’? A: Piccolo
Q: To which section of the orchestra does the saxophone belong? A: Woodwind
Q: Which mammal has the alternative names of carcajou, Glutton or skunk bear? A: Wolverine
Q: The Asian dhole is a wild variety of what domesticated animal? A: Dog
Q: Which English ground better known for football staged its only Test Match in 1902? A: Bramall Lane
Q: Which president used Fleetwood Mac’s ‘Don’t Stop’ as his campaign song? A: Clinton
Q: What did President James Buchanan not do that all other presidents did? A: Marry
Q: Which king became ‘insane’ in 1453 but apparently ‘recovered’ in 1454? A: Henry VI
Q: Which king was known as ‘Lackland’? A: John
Q: Which future king landed at Torbay in 1688? A: William III
Q: Which monster did Ariadne help to destroy? A: The Minotaur
Q: Of what was Urania the Muse? A: Astronomy
Q: Garuda is the national airline of which Asian country? A: Indonesia
Q: What is the largest port city in Japan? A: Yokohama
Q: Which canal connects Antwerp with Liege? A: Albert Canal
Q: ‘It’s Toasted’ was the advertising slogan for which cigarette brand? A: Lucky Strike
Q: In film and TV the term ‘gaffer’ is used for the chief …….what? A: Electrician
Q: Malia and Natasha are the daughters of which famous man? A: Barack Obama
Q: Whose portrait appeared on the back of the last one pound note? A: Isaac Newton
Q: Which country is the nearest neighbour of Australia? A: Papua New Guinea
Q: In which language does ‘Proost’ mean ‘Cheers’? A: Dutch
Q: In which county are the towns of Malmesbury, Melksham and Chippenham? A: Wiltshire
Q: The waterfalls Cauldron Snout and High Force lie on which major river? A: Tees
Q: Bentley Drummle is a villainous character in which novel? A: Great Expectations
Q: What was the stage-name of Oasis guitarist Paul Arthurs? A: Bonehead
Q: Which chart-topping band of the 90s had Professor Brian Cox as a member? A: D-Ream
Q: In which film is the murder of Miriam Haines seen reflected in her (dropped) spectacles? A: Strangers On A Train
Q: In The Trouble With Harry – what was Harry? A: A Corpse
Q: Which film was shot in Bodega Bay, California? A: The Birds
Q: Which desert runs along the border between India and Pakistan? A: Thar Desert
Q: In which country are the Cameron Highlands? A: Malaysia
Q: Which country is bordered by Laos, Vietnam and Thailand? A: Cambodia
Q: ‘This is a local shop, for local people’ – which TV programme? A: The League of Gentlemen
Q: Which music star married Greg Allman in 1975? A: Cher
Q: Who sang improvised calypsos on That Was The Week That Was? A: Lance Percival
Q: Which music star married Frances Tomelty in 1976? A: Sting
Q: What is the most notable invention of Hippolyte Mege-Mouries? A: Margarine
Q: What kind of food is Bel Paese? A: Cheese
Q: Which comic once called Prince Charles a ‘grovelling little bastard’ on live TV? A: Spike Milligan
Q: The name of which fish means to struggle? A: Flounder
Q: Who is the patron saint of mountaineers? A: Saint Bernard
Q: What do the firms Redwood, Wormwood and Gunn and Moore aii make? A: Cricket bats
Q: What name is given to the soft V shaped part of a horse’s hoof? A: Frog
Q: In world War II what term was used to describe a group of German U-boats? A: Wolf Pack
Q: In which battle of May 1982 did Colonel H. Jones win his posthumous V.C.? A: Goose Green
Q: Which name was shared by 11 Pharoahs? A: Rameses
Q: In the Fellowship of the ring at which inn did the hobbits meet strider? A: Prancing Pony
Q: Which is the oldest university in the English speaking world? A: Oxford
Q: Which was the second “Carry on” film? A: Carry on Nurse
Q: Which gas is the principal gas in the atmosphere of Venus? A: Carbon dioxide
Q: Who was the victorious general at the battle of Cannae in 216 BC.? A: Hannibal
Q: Who became known as the boy General in the American Civil War? A: Custer
Q: Which fruit native to Malaysia is notorious because of its smell? A: Durian
Q: From which country did apricots originate? A: China
Q: In which major film of 2014 did Henry Cavill play the title character? A: Man of Steel
Q: Which theatre stands on Argyll street in London? A: Palladium
Q: In the words of a music hall song what couldn’t you trust a special like? A: An Old Time Copper
Q: For what purpose were Mesopotamian ziggurats built? A: Temples
Q: Elephant’s ear, leather, cabbage and Worm Brain are all types of what? A: Coral
Q: The Megalodon is the largest ever known type of which sea creature? A: Shark
Q: Giant squid reach 14 metres. What are their bigger cousins called? A: Colossal squid
Q: In which Australian state can you find the Derwent river? A: Tasmania
Q: Which two continents are separated by the Drake Passage? A: South America, Antarctica
Q: Which strait separates Taiwan from mainland China? A: Strait of Formosa
Q: By which name were the Dardanelles originally known? A: Hellespont
Q: Which spa town outside Derbyshire has an annual well dressing weekend? A: Malvern
Q: Which is Europe’s smallest state? A: Vatican state
Q: Malta and Gozo are two of the main three islands of Malta. What is the third? A: Comino
Q: What is the nearest state, dependency or principality to the UK not in the EU? A: Isle of Man
Q: Moore Marriot and Graham Moffat made eight films with which comedian? A: Will Hay
Q: Who played Rambling Sid Rumpo on radio? A: Kenneth Williams
Q: What was the name of Inspector Gadget’s niece? A: Penny
Q: Ni is the chemical symbol for which element? A: Nickel
Q: What does a welsh rarebit become with an egg on top? A: Buck rarebit
Q: Who won the Wimbledon’s Men’s singles in 1987? A: Pat Cash
Q: Who won the second series of Strictly Come Dancing? A: Jill Halfpenny
Q: “Who were you with In the moonlight” was a hit for which duo? A: Dollar
Q: In Blackadder II what alias was used by his fiancée when they met? A: Bob
Q: What was the original UK name of the chocolate bar which de-anglicised its name in 2006? A: Dime
Q: Who was known as the Father of the Symphony? A: Haydn
Q: Who wrote the Goldberg variations? A: Johann Sebastian Bach
Q: Which Italian had Beethoven, Liszt and Schubert as pupils? A: Salieri
Q: Who was Lovejoy’s barker and chief assistant? A: Tinker
Q: Which of Arthur’s nephews replaced Terry in Minder? A: Ray
Q: Who played Raffles in four series on TV? A: Anthony Valentine
Q: Which is the northernmost English county town? A: Morpeth
Q: What is the county town of Anglesey? A: Beaumaris
Q: Which English county town comes last alphabetically? A: Worcester
Q: Who lived at Three Chimneys in Derbyshire? A: The Railway Children
Q: Where did Bilbo Baggins live in the Shire in the Hobbit? A: Bag End
Q: Who lived in a home called the Burrow in Harry Potter? A: Weasleys
Q: What is Canada’s newest biggest territory? A: Nunavut
Q: Who was the last driver to die during a Formula 1 championship race? A: Ayrton Senna
Q: Which classical composer wrote “The Hungarian Dances”? A: Brahms
Q: Traditionally what sort of gifts should be given on a 20th. Anniversary? A: China
Q: What kind of creature is an akita? A: Dog
Q: What is the name of the purple dinosaur on American children’s TV? A: Barney
Q: Bufophobia is an abnormal fear of which creatures? A: Toads
Q: Perentophobia is an abnormal fear of which family member? A: Mother-in-law
Q: Which record label called itself “Soulsville USA”? A: Stax
Q: In which country fid Fado music originate? A: Portugal
Q: Which was the first city in the USA to be associated with brass band music? A: New Orleans
Q: Dili is the capital of which country? A: East Timor
Q: In which newspaper did the Perishers first appear? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Which is England’s deepest lake? A: Wastwater
Q: In which US state would you find the Great Salt Lake? A: Utah
Q: Which brand uses the advertising slogan ‘Because I’m worth it’? A: L’Oréal
Q: Car licence plates from which US state bear the slogan ‘The Last Frontier’? A: Alaska
Q: Which is the largest and most muscular of the four chambers of the human heart? A: Left ventricle
Q: Which Shipping Forecast area contains the Shetland and Orkney archipelagos? A: Fair Isle
Q: Who wrote the pair of one-act plays collectively known as Separate Tables? A: Terence Rattigan
Q: American Buffalo and Glengarry Glen Ross are plays by which US playwright? A: David Mamet
Q: Which guitarist had a 1968 hit with the self-penned instrumental Classical Gas? A: Mason Williams
Q: Which song was a UK number one for Harry Belafonte in 1957 and for Boney M in 1978? A: Mary’s Boy Child
Q: Which character made his second appearance in the 1916 novel Greenmantle? A: Richard Hannay
Q: What is the Spanish word for ‘navy’? A: Armada
Q: Which mild analgesic drug is marketed under the trade name Nurofen? A: Ibuprofen
Q: In Round the Horn, which pair once ran a firm of solicitors called ‘Bona Law’? A: Julian and Sandy
Q: What would be removed in a pogonotomy? A: A Beard
Q: What colour is iodine vapour? A: Violet or Purple
Q: Which type of cloth cap is named after the hero of a poem by Robert Burns? A: Tam-O’-Shanter
Q: Who was the first Republican to be President of the USA? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who became President following the assassination of James Garfield in 1881? A: Chester Arthur
Q: Which trunk road in Lancashire is known as the ‘Devil’s Highway’? A: A666
Q: Which composer’s Eighth Symphony is known as ‘The Symphony of a Thousand’? A: Gustav Mahler
Q: In which Yorkshire town are the Royal Horticultural Society’s Harlow Carr gardens? A: Harrogate
Q: Martin and Anne Bryce were leading characters in which sitcom of the 1980s? A: Ever Decreasing Circles
Q: In which film did Sean Connery play a character called Henry Jones? A: Indiana Jones and the Last
Q: Who created the character ‘Mr Pastry’? A: Richard Hearne
Q: Who played the title role the ITV series Ivanhoe, first broadcast in 1958? A: Roger Moore
Q: At which railway station did Edward Thomas’s train unexpectedly stop in late June, 1917? A: Adlestrop
Q: Which bakery chain uses the slogan ‘Always fresh. Always tasty’? A: Greggs
Q: Northland, Gisborne, and Marlborough are wine-growing areas in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: In 2012, who became the first South African cricketer to score a test-match triple century? A: Hashim Amla
Q: In 2014, who became the first New Zealand cricketer to score a test-match triple century? A: Brendon McCullum
Q: Sally Ann Howes was 38-years-old when she played the female lead in which family film? A: CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG
Q: ‘The Merryman and His Maid’ is the subtitle of which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
Q: Which Victorian author is credited with introducing the pillar box into the UK? A: ANTHONY TROLLOPE
Q: Soccer. Who became manager of West Ham in June 2015? A: Slaven BILIC
Q: In the Hindu and Jain religions, what is a mandir? A: TEMPLE
Q: In the Bible, who visited Solomon in Kings 1, chapter 10? A: QUEEN OF SHEBA
Q: Judaism. If Rosh Hashanah celebrates the Jewish New Year, what is Rosh Chodesh? A: A NEW MONTH
Q: The English rock band Beady Eye were formed in 2009 after the break-up of which group? A: OASIS
Q: Whose eyes feature in the title of a 1978 film, directed by Irvin Kershner? A: LAURA MARS
Q: What is the first name of the Mr. Campbell who is a Crystal Palace striker? A: FRAIZER
Q: In which sport is the Swaythling Cup a major trophy? A: TABLE TENNIS
Q: What sort of passports were internationally-recognised travel documents given to stateless refugees? A: NANSEN passports
Q: The peace treaty was signed at Versailles, but where in France was the armistice signed? A: COMPIEGNE
Q: Which country shares its western border with Romania and its eastern border with Ukraine? A: MOLDOVA
Q: Who composed the opera ‘Carmen’ (1875)? A: Georges BIZET
Q: What traditional name for a badger comes originally from an Irish Gaelic word? A: BROCK
Q: Which liqueur is named after the Carthusian monastery where it was first made in 1737? A: CHARTREUSE
Q: What is the first name of Mr. Maldonado, the Venezuelan Formula 1 driver? A: PASTOR
Q: If a ship has been turned onto its side for cleaning, it is said to be what? (Eight letters.) A: CAREENED
Q: The three largest towns in ‘The English Riviera’ are Torquay, Paignton, and … what? A: BRIXHAM
Q: Where in southern England would you find the Aubrey Holes? A: STONEHENGE
Q: What river converges with the River Test at Southampton? A: ITCHEN
Q: Which English magician and tv host was born on this day in 1938? A: PAUL DANIELS
Q: Which legend of the British pop world died on March the 8th 2016? A: GEORGE MARTIN
Q: General Motors, commonly known as GM, is based in which Michigan city? A: DETROIT
Q: What is the surname of the pop twins known as ‘Jedward’? A: GRIMES
Q: Which top tennis player became father to two sets of twins in less than five years? A: ROGER FEDERER
Q: What is the four-word name of the 1951 play on which ‘Cabaret’ is based? A: I AM A CAMERA
Q: Following the overture, what is the opening number in ‘Oliver’ (1968)? A: FOOD, GLORIOUS FOOD
Q: In heraldry, the colour green is known as what? A: VERT
Q: In the tv programme ‘Dad’s Army’, what is Private Pike’s first name? A: FRANK
Q: ‘Not a Penny More, Not a Penny Less’ (1976) was whose debut novel? A: JEFFREY ARCHER
Q: In 1954, Sun Myung Moon founded the Unification Church in which country? A: SOUTH KOREA
Q: Which American newspaper commissioned Stanley to find Livingstone? A: NEW YORK HERALD
Q: Children’s tv presenter Justin Fletcher is the man behind which popular persona? A: MR. TUMBLE
Q: In the Noddy stories, what is the name of Big Ears’ brother? A: LITTLE EARS
Q: What is the name of the forgetful Blue Tang fish in ‘Finding Nemo’? A: DORY
Q: In a series of films, 1997 to 2002, which character owned a cat named Mr. Bigglesworth? A: DR. EVIL
Q: What was the pen name of the author of ‘The Adventures of Pinocchio’ (1883)? A: CARLO COLLODI
Q: In public schools and some old-fashioned grammar schools, what is understood by ‘prep’? A: HOMEWORK
Q: The fall of the Berlin Wall began on November 9th in what year? A: 1989
Q: What sort of creature is a turnstone? A: BIRD
Q: G.G.R. is which 1992 Al Pacino and Jack Lemmon drama film? A: GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS
Q: Of which party, a mix of Arab nationalism and socialism, was Saddam Hussein a member? A: BA’ATH Party
Q: In what year did the Suez Crisis, also known as the Tripartite Aggression, take place? A: 1956
Q: In 1954, what was the last item to be no longer rationed in Britain? A: MEAT
Q: The test of the UK’s first atomic device in October 1952 was known as Operation what? A: HURRICANE
Q: What is the name of Raj’s Yorkshire Terrier in ‘The Big Bang Theory’? A: CINNAMON
Q: Played by Idris Elba, what is the first name of tv’s DCI Luther? A: JOHN
Q: People suffering from the Cotard Delusion believe what? A: THAT THEY ARE DEAD
Q: Also known as winter depression, what is the full form of S.A.D.? A: SEASONAL AFFECTIVE
Q: According to the proverb, what ‘makes a muckle’? A: MANY A MICKLE
Q: After Auckland and Wellington, what is New Zealand’s third-largest city by population? A: CHRISTCHURCH
Q: What is the capital of Papua New Guinea? A: PORT MORESBY
Q: A.S.M. was which Coen brothers film? A: A SERIOUS MAN
Q: What colour are laburnum flowers? A: YELLOW
Q: What colour are borage flowers? A: BLUE
Q: Which bird is known as the windhover in certain parts of the UK? A: KESTREL
Q: Who wrote ‘Tristram Shandy’ (1759 onwards) and ‘A Sentimental Journey’ (1768)? A: LAURENCE STERNE
Q: Someone born today would have which sign of the zodiac? A: PISCES
Q: What is the capital city of Cyprus? A: NICOSIA
Q: What acid is responsible for the sting in nettles? A: FORMIC
Q: What denomination of British bank note depicts twenty prisoners crammed into one cell? A: £5
Q: Under what name did Terry the dog achieve fame in a 1939 film? A: TOTO
Q: Who connects the BBC news, ‘Crimewatch’, and ‘Antiques Roadshow’? A: FIONA BRUCE
Q: Born in 1963, whose real name is Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou? A: GEORGE MICHAEL
Q: George Ford is a player and dad Mike Ford is the coach at which English rugby club? A: BATH
Q: What surname is shared by the Formula 1 champions in 1962, 1968, and 1996? A: HILL
Q: What was the name of the family who lived at no.42 in a post-2000 tv series? A: The KUMARS
Q: Minnie is the title character in which Puccini opera? A: The GIRL OF THE WEST
Q: To within two years either way, when did Rupert Bear first appear in the Daily Express? A: 1920
Q: The Lech, Enns, Ipel and Nera are all tributaries of which major river? A: DANUBE
Q: What river flows through the Welsh city of Newport? A: USK
Q: After the Nile, what is the next-longest river in Africa? A: CONGO
Q: Andrei Lugovoy and Dmitry Kovtun are suspects in the murder of whom? A: Alexander LITVINENKO
Q: What play was Abraham Lincoln watching when he was assassinated? A: OUR AMERICAN COUSIN
Q: What is the correct term for a period of play in polo? A: CHUKKA
Q: When washing clothes, what does a triangle with a cross through it represent? A: DO NOT BLEACH
Q: Launched in 2000, which website announced on Jan. 20th 2016 that it was soon to close? A: FRIENDS REUNITED
