Q: What does a seismologist study? A: Earthquakes
Q: What element comes between Uranium and Plutonium in the periodic table? A: Neptunium
Q: A gaggle is a group of what animal? A: Geese
Q: What food made Popeye strong? A: Spinach
Q: What was the pen name of Samuel Langhorne Clemens? A: Mark Twain
Q: What salt sea borders Jordan and is 433 meters below sea level? A: Dead Sea
Q: Under what plant is it customary to kiss during the Christmas season? A: Mistletoe
Q: What country did the band ABBA hail from? A: Sweden
Q: On what TV show would you see a van called the Mystery Machine? A: Scooby Doo
Q: What type of animal does mohair come from? A: Angora Goat
Q: What 1978 horror film introduced Jamie Lee Curtis to the big screen? A: Halloween
Q: Aves is the taxonomical class of what type of animals? A: Birds
Q: What fictional character visited Lilliput and Brobdingnag? A: Lemuel Gulliver
Q: "In what country did the movie ""The Last King of Scotland"" take place?" A: Uganda
Q: "Whose motto is ""Semper Fidelis""?" A: US Marine Corps
Q: Who is Posh Spice's husband? A: David Beckham
Q: What river flows through Paris? A: The Seine
Q: What is Superman's achilles heel? A: Kryptonite
Q: When Jack fell down and broke his crown, who came tumbling after? A: Jill
Q: Hatters were often “mad” because of exposure to what chemical element? A: Mercury
Q: Before the Euro, what was the name of Italy's currency? A: The Lira
Q: In what year did the California gold rush start? A: 1848
Q: Besides Mexico and Canada, what country is geographically closest to the United States? A: Russia
Q: In the US, the title esquire is used to describe a person who practices what profession? A: Law
Q: What hurricane devastated south Florida in 1992? A: Andrew
Q: The star Betelgeuse is pronounced like what two English words? A: Beetle Juice
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin word “Rex”? A: King
Q: What is the word for a group of fish? A: School
Q: What river flows through Budapest and Vienna? A: Danube
Q: Where are the pearly gates said to be? A: Heaven
Q: Ethanol and isopropyl are types of what? A: Alcohol
Q: What mythical animal is a rabbit with antlers? A: Jackalope
Q: What country is home to 9 of the 10 most venomous types of snakes? A: Australia
Q: "In the term ""Valley Girl"", what valley is being referred to?" A: San Fernando
Q: What team has defeated the Washington Generals thousands of times? A: Harlem Globetrotters
Q: What Jewish mystical teachings are followed by Madonna? A: Kabbalah
Q: What is the best-selling Dutch beer? A: Heineken
Q: In Genesis, what type of animal returns to Noah's Ark carrying an olive leaf? A: Dove
Q: What is the term for an economic downturn that is more severe than a recession? A: Depression
Q: "Who painted ""Guernica"" and ""The Old Guitarist""?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: What Canadian province is west of Alberta? A: British Columbia
Q: What is the word for a baby goat? A: Kid
Q: What city is connected to its northern neighbors by the Golden Gate Bridge? A: San Francisco
Q: If someone is in the Land of Nod, what are they doing? A: Sleeping
Q: Who was the lead singer of Queen? A: Freddie Mercury
Q: According to legend, what Lady rode naked through Coventry to protest high taxes? A: Lady Godiva
Q: What is Indiana Jones's real first name? A: Henry
Q: The Dardanelles separate two parts of what country? A: Turkey
Q: Who were the workers at Willy Wonka's chocolate factory? A: Oompa-Loompas
Q: What unit is used to measure the purity of gold? A: Carat
Q: "What cult leader was inspired by the Beatles' song ""Helter Skelter""?" A: Charles Manson
Q: What force keeps the moon in orbit around Earth? A: Gravity
Q: Capellini, Tagliatelle and Ditalini are types of what? A: Pasta
Q: Where do basketball's Globetrotters supposedly hail from? A: Harlem
Q: What is the most famous trophy in the sport of yacht racing? A: America's Cup
Q: Who is the Duke of York? A: Prince Andrew
Q: What is the only ancient wonder of the world that still exists? A: The Great Pyramid of Giza
Q: What animal is the offspring of a male donkey and female horse? A: Mule
Q: What country is divided between Greek and Turkish factions? A: Cyprus
Q: What type of animal is Punxsutawney Phil? A: Groundhog
Q: What is Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner's stage name? A: Sting
Q: What childhood disease is a softening of bones due to malnutrition? A: Rickets
Q: Kate Hudson is the daughter of what famous actress? A: Goldie Hawn
Q: What word describes an organism with an absence of pigment in the skin? A: Albino
Q: What is Decompression Sickness commonly called? A: The Bends
Q: In addition to sapphire, what gemstone is a variety of the mineral corundum? A: Ruby
Q: In ancient Greece, what would you find at Delphi? A: The Oracle
Q: In what modern-day country was Christopher Columbus born? A: Italy
Q: What 2013 Pixar movie is a prequel to Monsters Inc.? A: Monsters University
Q: What sea borders Turkey to the north? A: Black Sea
Q: What does a mnemonic device help you do? A: Remember
Q: In what city would you find the world's largest indoor ski slope? A: Dubai
Q: What is the common term for Myocardial Infarction? A: Heart Attack
Q: If someone commits matricide, who did they kill? A: Their Mother
Q: What does the Jewish holiday Rosh Hashanah celebrate? A: New Year
Q: What TV series was created by Gene Roddenberry? A: Star Trek
Q: What is the name of the Princess Bride? A: Buttercup
Q: What South American city has the best-known Carnival celebration? A: Rio de Janeiro
Q: What comic strip features characters named Jughead and Veronica? A: Archie
Q: What river is dammed by the Hoover Dam? A: Colorado River
Q: "What TV chef co-authored ""Mastering the Art of French Cooking""?" A: Julia Child
Q: What brass instrument uses a slide instead of valves? A: Trombone
Q: "What ""Wizard of Oz"" character wants a brain?" A: Scarecrow
Q: In what country did papyrus originate? A: Egypt
Q: What exam must be passed to practice law in the U.S.? A: Bar Exam
Q: What country inspired Starbucks - but has no Starbucks in it? A: Italy
Q: "What word is repeated before ""toil and trouble"" in ""Macbeth""?" A: Double
Q: What could Jack Sprat's wife not eat? A: Lean
Q: In addition to sine and cosine, what is the third main function of trigonometry? A: Tangent
Q: Traditionally, when a man bows a woman will do what? A: Curtsey
Q: What is the word for a Jewish candelabra? A: Menorah
Q: What is the last U.S. state, alphabetically? A: Wyoming
Q: "What country's unofficial national anthem is ""Waltzing Matilda""?" A: Australia
Q: What is Gaius Octavius better known as? A: Augustus
Q: "What rock band released the albums ""Sticky Fingers"" and ""Beggar's Banquet""?" A: The Rolling Stones
Q: At what venue do the Rockettes perform? A: Radio City Music Hall
Q: What was the name of the Nazi secret police? A: Gestapo
Q: "What does the Latin term ""Annus Horribilis"" means in English?" A: Horrible Year
Q: What river does the Hoover Dam dam? A: Colorado River
Q: What river is spanned by the Tower Bridge? A: Thames
Q: What religious movement started in Jamaica in the 1930's? A: Rastafari
Q: "What part of speech are the words, ""and"", ""or"", and ""but""?" A: Conjunction
Q: What type of animal is a water moccasin? A: Snake
Q: What Germanic language was once the most commonly-spoken language among European Jews? A: Yiddish
Q: What is the capital of Bavaria? A: Munich
Q: "What Norse god is known as a ""trickster god""?" A: Loki
Q: "On what type of building would you be most likely to find a ""flying buttress""?" A: Church
Q: What is the only Great Lake that doesn't border Canada? A: Lake Michigan
Q: What is either a popular sport or a type of insect? A: Cricket
Q: What type of collectible, featuring Honus Wagner, was sold for $2.8 million in 2007? A: Baseball Card
Q: What organ is foie gras made from? A: Liver
Q: What is Judi Dench's title in the British honours system? A: Dame
Q: What landlocked African country is also a men's name in the English language? A: Chad
Q: What U.S. state is closest to London, geographically? A: Maine
Q: What city was captured at the end of the First Crusade in 1099? A: Jerusalem
Q: What island do lemurs come from? A: Madagascar
Q: It takes a village to what? A: Raise a Child
Q: What is the 2nd book of Bible? A: Exodus
Q: In what country would you be most likely to find a polder? A: Netherlands
Q: What is the largest Caribbean Island? A: Cuba
Q: What horse won the 1973 Triple Crown? A: Secretariat
Q: What instrument did Ravi Shankar play? A: Sitar
Q: What was the Soviet version of the CIA? A: KGB
Q: What is the Japanese word for freshwater eel? A: Unagi
Q: What city-state did Hannibal fight for? A: Carthage
Q: What are french fries called in France? A: Frites
Q: Besides tennis, what sport can be played at Wimbledon's All England Club? A: Croquet
Q: What does a smoke jumper fight? A: Wildfires
Q: "What type of doors did the DeLorean in ""Back to the Future"" have?" A: Gull-wing
Q: Who was the first head of the Church of England? A: Henry VIII
Q: Who have fought from the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli? A: U.S. Marines
Q: In golf, what is one stroke better than a birdie? A: Eagle
Q: What was stolen from the Louvre in 1911? A: The Mona Lisa
Q: What ancient people had priests known as druids? A: Celts
Q: What is the name of the pirate flag? A: Jolly Roger
Q: What city hosted the 2010 Winter Olympics? A: Vancouver
Q: "What ""wonder drug"" was discovered by Alexander Fleming?" A: Penicillin
Q: If you cross the river Styx, where are you? A: Hades
Q: What is Japan's national sport? A: Sumo Wrestling
Q: "Who painted ""The Old Guitarist"" during his blue period?" A: Pablo Picasso
Q: Who lived by the sea in a land called Honah Lee? A: Puff the Magic Dragon
Q: "Who directed ""The Nightmare Before Christmas"" and ""Edward Scissorhands""?" A: Tim Burton
Q: What country heats most of its buildings with geothermal energy? A: Iceland
Q: What Frankish king was crowned emperor on Christmas day in 800 A.D.? A: Charlemagne
Q: What actress was on the cover of the first issue of Playboy? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: In musical terms, what is the opposite of forte? A: Piano
Q: What is the most popular breed of dog in the United States? A: Labrador Retriever
Q: What is the name of the Japanese art of growing miniature trees? A: Bonsai
Q: Who has a brother named Mycroft? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: What major Asian inland sea has almost entirely dried up? A: Aral Sea
Q: What Teamsters union leader mysteriously disappeared in 1975? A: Jimmy Hoffa
Q: What species interbred with humans in Europe and Asia before going extinct around 30,000 B.C.? A: Neanderthal
Q: In what country would you have found Robben Island prison? A: South Africa
Q: What type of person is a southpaw? A: Left-Handed
Q: What language does the word algebra come from? A: Arabic
Q: What U.S. state has the highest average elevation at 6,800 feet? A: Colorado
Q: "In what sport might you experience a ""sticky wicket"" or a ""wicked googly""?" A: Cricket
Q: What city is Monte Carlo a part of? A: Monaco
Q: "Who said ""I'm strong to the finish, 'cause I eats me Spinach""?" A: Popeye
Q: Pont Neuf is the oldest bridge in Paris. What does its name mean? A: New Bridge
Q: What animal does Angora wool come from? A: Angora Rabbit
Q: What country's flag featured a hammer and a sickle? A: The Soviet Union
Q: Which English King fought in the Third Crusade? A: Richard I
Q: What type of animal makes royal jelly? A: Bees
Q: What element are computer chips typically made from? A: Silicon
Q: In 2012, Felix Baumgartner became the first person to break the sound barrier doing what? A: Skydiving
Q: What U.S. Army rank is one higher than Captain? A: Major
Q: What country banned the sale of chewing gum in 2004? A: Singapore
Q: What is the largest ethnic group in Germany (besides Germans)? A: Turks
Q: What country's most common family name is Nguyen? A: Vietnam
Q: What Greek titan was chained to a rock as punishment for giving fire to mankind? A: Prometheus
Q: Where would you find Capitoline and Palatine hills? A: Rome
Q: What is the only Grand Slam tennis tournament to be played on clay courts? A: French Open
Q: What geologic period came after the Triassic? A: Jurassic
Q: If you have insomnia, what can't you do? A: Sleep
Q: If you land at John Lennon airport, what city are you in? A: Liverpool
Q: What industry's four capitals are New York, London, Paris and Milan? A: Fashion
Q: What food is made with lady fingers, coffee, mascarpone, and cocoa (among other ingredients)? A: Tiramisu
Q: What giant beast was kidnapped from Skull Island? A: King Kong
Q: "What musical artist was known as ""The Purple One""?" A: Prince
Q: Among the countries in Asia, which one has the most Christians? A: Philippines
Q: What breed of dog is Scooby-Doo? A: Great Dane
Q: What chemical, often added to tap water, greatly reduces the rate of tooth decay? A: Fluoride
Q: "What product once featured a much-loathed ""assistant"" named Clippy?" A: Microsoft Office
Q: In 2014, a Boeing 777 mysteriously disappeared over the Indian Ocean. What country did it take off from? A: Malaysia
Q: "What U.S. grocery chain has been humorously referred to as ""Whole Paycheck""?" A: Whole Foods
Q: What's the most popular sport in India? A: Cricket
Q: What does a kleptomaniac have a compulsion to do? A: Steal
Q: In what movie did Meryl Streep play a character inspired by Vogue editor Anna Wintour? A: The Devil Wears Prada
Q: In what country were the Smurfs invented? A: Belgium
Q: What term refers to dipping food into a communal pot of melted cheese? A: Fondue
Q: What type of alien is the Doctor from Doctor Who? A: Time Lord
Q: Who is (usually) pursued by Blinky, Inky, Pinky and Clyde? A: Pac-Man
Q: Who famously wore a pink Chanel suit and a pillbox hat? A: Jacqueline Kennedy
Q: Who was Bonnie Parker's partner in crime? A: Clyde Barrow
Q: What country built a 1,000 mile fence to prevent the spread of rabbits? (it didn't work) A: Australia
Q: After corn, what is the most-planted crop in the United States? A: Soybeans
Q: What type of meat is used to make wiener schnitzel? A: Veal
Q: "What city's film industry is called ""Bollywood""?" A: Mumbai
Q: "What phase of the moon comes after ""waning crescent""?" A: New Moon
Q: What type of plant is molasses usually made from? A: Sugarcane
Q: "Who wrote ""Around the World in Eighty Days"" and ""Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea""?" A: Jules Verne
Q: What Pacific island was visited by the HMS Bounty and Paul Gauguin? A: Tahiti
Q: What disease is characterized by the body's inability to produce or respond to insulin? A: Diabetes
Q: What great island sank into the Atlantic Ocean, according to Plato? A: Atlantis
Q: What is the only U.S. state whose name starts with the letter F? A: Florida
Q: What holiday comes the day after Halloween? A: All Saints' Day
Q: Which British overseas territory borders Spain? A: Gibraltar
Q: "In what country do people say ""Kanpai"" when making a toast?" A: Japan
Q: Who has appeared on the cover of Sports Illustrated a record 50 times? A: Michael Jordan
Q: What is a percolator used to make? A: Coffee
Q: What potent greenhouse gas is produced by the digestive systems of cattle? A: Methane
Q: Who does a regicide kill? A: a King
Q: What is the main ingredient in miso? A: Soybeans
Q: "Who narrated ""March of the Penguins"" and ""The Shawshank Redemption""?" A: Morgan Freeman
Q: What day comes after Maundy Thursday? A: Good Friday
Q: What is the fruit of the ficus tree? A: Figs
Q: Besides Spanish, what language is commonly spoken in Barcelona? A: Catalan
Q: "If someone is eating ""longpig"" what type of flesh are they eating?" A: Human
Q: "What band recorded the song ""Where the Streets Have No Name""?" A: U2
Q: What internal organ produces insulin? A: Pancreas
Q: What country grows the most coffee beans? A: Brazil
Q: "What ""magic words"" did Ali Baba use to enter the den of the forty thieves?" A: Open Sesame
Q: What instant messaging service did Facebook purchase for $19 billion in 2014? A: WhatsApp
Q: What organization was led by Boutros Boutros-Ghali and Kofi Annan? A: United Nations
Q: What island did Captain Cook discover, before being killed by the people who already lived there? A: Hawaii
Q: What was famously built in 1961 and demolished in 1989? A: The Berlin Wall
Q: What company purchased the rights to the Star Wars franchise in 2012? A: Disney
Q: "What is another name for Rome's ""Flavian Amphitheatre""?" A: Colosseum
Q: What Australian soap opera has aired for since 1985 and once starred Kylie Minogue? A: Neighbours
Q: What aquatic animal can live to be 100 years old in the wild, but usually dies before age 30 in captivity? A: Orca
Q: If something is simian, what type of animal does it resemble? A: Ape
Q: What U.S. state is most strongly associated with Bourbon whiskey? A: Kentucky
Q: What insecticide caused a major reduction in bald eagle populations until 1972? A: DDT
Q: Who commanded the Millennium Falcon? A: Han Solo
Q: What creature lived at the center of the labyrinth? A: Minotaur
Q: What is the plural of court-martial? A: Courts-martial
Q: "What model/rapper had a #1 hit in 2014 with her song ""Fancy""?" A: Iggy Azalea
Q: What kooky movie character, portrayed by Johnny Depp, was skilled at topiary? A: Edward Scissorhands
Q: "What does the Indian word ""raja"" mean in English?" A: King
Q: "What ""be"" word refers to men's clothing that is custom-made by a tailor?" A: Bespoke
Q: On what would you find a field, motto, crest, and escutcheon? A: Coat of Arms
Q: What is the opposite of leeward? A: Windward
Q: What is the name for a clay monster of Jewish folklore? A: Golem
Q: What color, starting with M, is also referred to as fuchsia? A: Magenta
Q: What is T.E. Lawrence better known as? A: Lawrence of Arabia
Q: "What has been given the nickname ""La Ville-Lumière""?" A: Paris
Q: What is the last name of Donatella, Gianni, and Allegra ? A: Versace
Q: What is the highest mountain in Japan? A: Mount Fuji
Q: What well-known dance form originated in Argentina and Uruguay? A: Tango
Q: What is the tallest waterfall in the world? A: Angel Falls
Q: After which goddess is the the capital of Greece named? A: Athena
Q: On what island could dodo birds once be found? A: Mauritius
Q: What is the largest desert in Africa? A: Sahara
Q: What is the biggest island in the Caribbean? A: Cuba
Q: On what sea is the Russian city of Sochi located? A: Black Sea
Q: What is the name of the Dutch-speaking region of Belgium? A: Flanders
Q: By volume of water, what is the largest lake in Scotland? A: Loch Ness
Q: What Italian region has its capital in Florence? A: Tuscany
Q: What country is often described as being shaped like a boot? A: Italy
Q: What canal connects the Red and Mediterranean Seas? A: Suez Canal
Q: What was the name of the highest caste in Indian society? A: Brahmin
Q: What country is a group of islands in the Persian Gulf? A: Bahrain
Q: Aotearoa is an alternative name for what country? A: New Zealand
Q: What musical instrument is considered to be a symbol of Ireland? A: Harp
Q: What is the world's biggest freshwater lake by volume? A: Lake Baikal
Q: What city was capital of Russia until 1918? A: St. Petersburg
Q: Montreal is located on an island in what river? A: Saint Lawrence
Q: What's the world's second-tallest mountain? A: K2
Q: Tsar and Kaiser were derivatives of what Roman title? A: Caesar
Q: Munich is located in what German state? A: Bavaria
Q: Besides the Caucasus, what mountain range forms the border of Europe and Asia? A: Ural Mountains
Q: What country is also known as Persia? A: Iran
Q: What is the biggest city on the island of Java? A: Jakarta
Q: What U.S. state has the smallest land area? A: Rhode Island
Q: What island in the Caribbean is divided between France and the Netherlands? A: St. Martin
Q: What city was famously built on Palatine, Capitoline, and five other hills? A: Rome
Q: What country was once known as East Pakistan? A: Bangladesh
Q: What English spa town was known to the Romans as Aquae Sulis? A: Bath
Q: What U.S. military base is located on the island of Cuba? A: Guantánamo Bay
Q: What was the city of Kolkata formerly called? A: Calcutta
Q: What is the largest landlocked country in Africa? A: Chad
Q: What is the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina? A: Sarajevo
Q: What country is bordered by Panama and Nicaragua? A: Costa Rica
Q: Besides Cape Town and Bloemfontein, what city is a capital of South Africa? A: Pretoria
Q: What group of Caribbean islands includes St. Croix, St. Thomas, and Tortola? A: Virgin Islands
Q: In what city would you find the district of Pudong, home to the world's second tallest building? A: Shanghai
Q: What part of France is located on the continent of South America? A: French Guiana
Q: What river forms part of the border between France and Germany? A: Rhine
Q: What is Canada's largest, newest, and least populated territory? A: Nunavut
Q: What is the second largest urban area in Japan? A: Osaka
Q: In the Gulf War, what gulf is being referred to? A: Persian Gulf
Q: What group of islands are controlled by the United Kingdom, but claimed by Argentina? A: Falkland Islands
Q: "What peninsula is split in half by a ""demilitarized zone""?" A: Korea
Q: "The island of Majorca has a name that means ""larger island"". Which island is the ""smaller island""?" A: Minorca
Q: In what city would you find a gondola? A: Venice
Q: What is the tallest mountain in the United States? A: Mount McKinley
Q: What is the world's biggest river, by volume of water discharged? A: Amazon
Q: What country is nearest to the French territory of St. Pierre and Miquelon? A: Canada
Q: By land area, what is the largest country in Africa? A: Algeria
Q: What country's national bird is the kiwi? A: New Zealand
Q: What salty lake is located at 1,388 ft below sea level? A: Dead Sea
Q: What island is situated between Ireland and Great Britain? A: Isle of Man
Q: What city did Brigham Young found in 1847? A: Salt Lake City
Q: Barcelona is the capital of what Spanish autonomous region? A: Catalonia
Q: What country is completely surrounded by South Africa? A: Lesotho
Q: What island is the southernmost point of the Florida Keys? A: Key West
Q: What is the world's first national park? A: Yellowstone
Q: In what city is the Brandenburg Gate located? A: Berlin
Q: In what country would you find the city of Limerick? A: Ireland
Q: What volcano exploded in 1883 with the force of 200 megatons of TNT? A: Krakatoa
Q: Old Trafford stadium is located near what major city? A: Manchester
Q: Toronto is located on the shores of what lake? A: Lake Ontario
Q: Ceylon is the former name of what country? A: Sri Lanka
Q: What city did Rome defeat in the Punic Wars? A: Carthage
Q: What French city is closest to Great Britain? A: Calais
Q: What was the biggest land empire of all time? A: Mongol Empire
Q: According to legend, what mountain was the home of the Greek gods? A: Mount Olympus
Q: What is the Southern Hemisphere's equivalent to the Tropic of Cancer? A: Tropic of Capricorn
Q: What volcano in Washinton state erupted in 1980, killing 57 people? A: Mount St. Helens
Q: What city was once known as Tenochtitlan? A: Mexico City
Q: In what country would you find a Gurkha soldier? A: Nepal
Q: What is the largest city in the Midlands region of England? A: Birmingham
Q: The Adirondack and Blue Ridge ranges are part of what larger mountain range? A: Appalachian
Q: In what mountain range is the Matterhorn located? A: Alps
Q: What is Hinduism's most sacred river? A: Ganges
Q: What is the most common religion in India? A: Hinduism
Q: What name is given to the northeast part of China? A: Manchuria
Q: What was the former name of Ho Chi Minh city? A: Saigon
Q: In what U.S. state does the Mississippi River begin? A: Minnesota
Q: What is the official residence of the Russian President? A: The Kremlin
Q: Every year, the Spanish town of Buñol has a food fight. What type of food is thrown? A: Tomatoes
Q: What is the westernmost region of France? (not counting overseas territories) A: Brittany
Q: What major river flows through the Grand Canyon? A: Colorado River
Q: What is Hobart the capital of? A: Tasmania
Q: What is the smallest province in Canada? A: Prince Edward Island
Q: In what country would you find Mount Kilimanjaro? A: Tanzania
Q: What is the main island of Japan? A: Honshu
Q: What city hosts the most well-known Oktoberfest? A: Munich
Q: Not counting continents, what is the world's largest island? A: Greenland
Q: What is the holiest city of Islam? A: Mecca
Q: What mountain range separates France and Spain? A: Pyrenees
Q: What is the capital of Djibouti? A: Djibouti
Q: In what country did Zoroastrianism start? A: Iran
Q: What is the tallest active volcano in Italy? A: Mt. Etna
Q: What is the most populous province of Canada? A: Ontario
Q: New Zealand was named after a province of what country? A: Netherlands
Q: What historical overland route connected China to the Mediterranean? A: Silk Road
Q: What is the name for Russian exclave that borders Lithuania and Poland? A: Kaliningrad
Q: What was the world's tallest building in 1950? A: Empire State Building
Q: What river intersects the Mississippi river near St. Louis? A: Missouri
Q: What is the highest mountain range in South America? A: Andes
Q: What strait separates Alaska and Russia? A: Bering Strait
Q: What is the world's biggest freshwater lake by surface area? A: Lake Superior
Q: What building is famously located at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave? A: The White House
Q: What is either the name of a US state or an independent country? A: Georgia
Q: In what city would you find the Kowloon peninsula? A: Hong Kong
Q: What is the biggest island in the Indian Ocean? A: Madagascar
Q: In what country is Vegemite popular? A: Australia
Q: What uninhabited island was settled by HMS Bounty mutineers? A: Pitcairn Island
Q: What is the German word for Germany? A: Deutschland
Q: What city was once called New Amsterdam? A: New York City
Q: Near what major American city is Lake Pontchartrain located? A: New Orleans
Q: What valley is the site of the Earth's highest-ever recorded temperature, 134°F? A: Death Valley
Q: Albania and Serbia are located on what peninsula? A: Balkan
Q: What is Pakistan's longest river? A: Indus River
Q: If measured from its base on the sea floor, what mountain is the world's tallest? A: Mauna Kea
Q: What is the Rome's Flavian Amphitheatre better known as? A: The Colosseum
Q: Who is on the American $100 bill? A: Ben Franklin
Q: What constellation is depicted on the Australian flag? A: Southern Cross
Q: What famous event for daredevils happens in Pamplona, Spain? A: Running of the Bulls
Q: What is the capital of Western Australia? A: Perth
Q: What language does the word tsunami come from? A: Japanese
Q: What strait divides Morocco and Spain? A: Strait of Gibraltar
Q: What ethnic group does the ETA separatist movement claim to represent? A: Basques
Q: On what peninsula do Spain and Portugal lie? A: Iberian Peninsula
Q: What U.S. state has the largest Mormon population? A: Utah
Q: What city was supposedly founded by Romulus and Remus? A: Rome
Q: By surface area, what is the largest of Africa's great lakes? A: Victoria
Q: What ocean current brings warm water from the Gulf of Mexico to Europe? A: Gulf Stream
Q: In what country is Khmer the primary language? A: Cambodia
Q: What was the former currency of Italy? A: Italian Lira
Q: On what Turkish mountain is Noah's ark often said to have landed? A: Mount Ararat
Q: What was the capital of West Germany? A: Bonn
Q: What's the Spanish name for the United States? A: Estados Unidos
Q: What island is divided between Greek and Turkish factions? A: Cyprus
Q: What group sacked Baghdad in 1258, ending the Islamic Golden Age? A: The Mongols
Q: Who did Rome fight against in the Punic Wars? A: Carthage
Q: "Who famously said ""I am not a crook""?" A: Richard Nixon
Q: Who supposedly fiddled while Rome burned (but actually didn't)? A: Nero
Q: Who is the namesake of the country of Bolivia? A: Simón Bolívar
Q: What epic poem is thought to be the oldest in the English language? A: Beowulf
Q: What country used Molotov cocktails in their war with the Soviets? A: Finland
Q: What ancient empire was led by Xerxes, Cyrus, and Darius? A: Persia
Q: What empire had its capital at Tenochtitlan? A: Aztec Empire
Q: In what war was Washington D.C. burned? A: War of 1812
Q: Who was the most notorious member of the Ba'ath Party? A: Saddam Hussein
Q: What English King fought in the Crusades and battled against Saladin? A: Richard the Lionheart
Q: What creature was used for the medical treatment of bloodletting? A: Leeches
Q: What plant, imported from the New World, changed the face of Italian cooking? A: Tomato
Q: What composer died while composing a Requiem in 1791? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: What was the state religion of the Persian empires? A: Zoroastrianism
Q: Who famously wore a pink Chanel suit and matching pillbox hat? A: Jackie Kennedy
Q: What country did Italy invade in 1935? A: Ethiopia
Q: Who was killed in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914? A: Franz Ferdinand
Q: What German kingdom was ruled by Ludwig II, builder of the famous Neuschwanstein castle? A: Bavaria
Q: What country was personally owned (and abused) by King Leopold of Belgium? A: Congo
Q: What group, established after WWI, was a failed predecessor to the United Nations? A: League of Nations
Q: What industrialist became the world's first billionaire - thanks to his monopoly on the US oil industry? A: John D. Rockefeller
Q: What was the Democratic Republic of the Congo called from 1971-1997? A: Zaire
Q: What Italian adventurer wrote about his 24 year journey from Venice to China and back? A: Marco Polo
Q: What crime was Al Capone convicted of in 1931? A: Tax Evasion
Q: "The words ""tsar"" and ""kaiser"" are derived from what Latin word?" A: Caesar
Q: What Mexican general redistributed land to the poor and raided the U.S.? A: Pancho Villa
Q: From which empire did Greece gain its independece, in 1830? A: Ottoman Empire
Q: What volcano destroyed Pompeii and Herculaneum? A: Mount Vesuvius
Q: "What Greek genius said ""Eureka"" in the bathtub and is said to have invented a death ray?" A: Archimedes
Q: Who is the father of the modern country of Turkey? A: Mustafa Kemal Atatürk
Q: What favorite of Queen Elizabeth tried to colonize Virginia and popularized smoking? A: Sir Walter Raleigh
Q: What was the primary language of the Byzantine Empire? A: Greek
Q: What country was led by Haile Selassie? A: Ethiopia
Q: And what religious movement views Haile Selassie as the Second Coming of Jesus? A: Rastafarian
Q: In what city was Abraham Zapruder living on November 22, 1963? A: Dallas
Q: Henry VIII suffered a leg injury participating in what sport? A: Jousting
Q: What empire, based in Cusco, once controlled much of the Andes? A: Inca Empire
Q: What country imported an estimated four million slaves before finally banning slavery in 1888? A: Brazil
Q: Who invented the printing press in Europe? A: Johannes Gutenberg
Q: What trade did the Dutch East India Company dominate in 17th and 18th centuries? A: Spice
Q: Who sailed around the world on the Golden Hind? A: Sir Francis Drake
Q: What island chain did Charles Darwin famously visit, inspiring his theory of natural selection? A: Galápagos Islands
Q: "What ""generalísimo"" ruled Spain from 1939-1975?" A: Francisco Franco
Q: What nation was ruled by King Nebuchadnezzar II? A: Babylon
Q: What Native American confederacy is composed of six tribes including the Mohawk and Seneca? A: Iroquois
Q: What Christian city was sacked during the Fourth Crusade? A: Constantinople
Q: Who commissioned the Domesday Book to survey his conquests? A: William the Conqueror
Q: What city was led by a doge? A: Venice
Q: What island chain did Captain Cook discover before being killed by the people who already lived there? A: Hawaii
Q: Who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? A: Michelangelo
Q: "What ""plot"" was Guy Fawkes involved in?" A: The Gunpowder Plot
Q: What was the first name of Franklin D. Roosevelt's first lady? A: Eleanor
Q: What is the name for a Viking warrior who fought in a trance-like, nearly uncontrollable fury? A: Berserker
Q: "What crop was ""king"" in the antebellum U.S. South?" A: Cotton
Q: In what theater was Abraham Lincoln shot? A: Ford's Theatre
Q: What country still denies its slaughter of over a million Armenians that happened in 1915? A: Turkey
Q: Thebes and Memphis were once capitals of what empire? A: Egypt
Q: "Who ""invented"" the hang glider, parachute, and diving suit?" A: Leonardo da Vinci
Q: What Parisienne was the first person to win multiple Nobel Prizes? A: Marie Curie
Q: "What war was depicted in Picasso's painting ""Guernica""?" A: Spanish Civil War
Q: What Russian empress had affairs with many men? A: Catherine the Great
Q: How many pence were in a pound prior to 1971? A: 240
Q: Who was the Supreme Commander of the Allied forces in Europe during WWII? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: What famous train ran between Paris and Istanbul? A: Orient Express
Q: Who was Louis XVI's wife? A: Marie Antoinette
Q: In what city did Muhammad die? A: Medina
Q: What paper-like writing material was used by the ancient Egyptians? A: Papyrus
Q: "On what famous statue is it written ""Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses""?" A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: In what country is chess thought to have originated? A: India
Q: What city marked the easternmost point of Napoleon's conquests? A: Moscow
Q: "What ""stick-thin"" model became a symbol of Swingin' Sixties London?" A: Twiggy
Q: What Russian princess, murdered in 1918, did many imposters claim to be? A: Anastasia
Q: What name is given to the Japanese suicide pilots of WWII? A: Kamikaze
Q: What African-American athlete defied Hitler's theories of racial superiority by winning four gold medals at the Berlin Olympics? A: Jesse Owens
Q: Which English king was beheaded? A: King Charles I
Q: "In what city did Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier have a ""thrilling"" fight?" A: Manila
Q: What became the 50th U.S. state in 1959? A: Hawaii
Q: Whose advisors included Sir Thomas More, Cardinal Wolsey, and Thomas Cromwell? A: King Henry VIII
Q: On what ship did English sailors mutiny against Captain Bligh? A: HMS Bounty
Q: What started on October 29, 1929 and lasted for a decade? A: Great Depression
Q: What name is given to the ancient region in the area of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers? A: Mesopotamia
Q: On what Pacific island did islanders build giant statues called moai? A: Easter Island
Q: "What fermented food product was called ""liberty cabbage"" during WWI?" A: Sauerkraut
Q: What country was once led by military leaders called shoguns? A: Japan
Q: In which modern-day country was the Anglo-Boer war fought? A: South Africa
Q: "Rachel Carson's book ""Silent Spring"" was partially responsible for the ban of what insecticide?" A: DDT
Q: "What country was ruled by ""Papa Doc"" and ""Baby Doc"" Duvalier?" A: Haiti
Q: What modern-day country was once the largest and most profitable Dutch colony? A: Indonesia
Q: What did Karl Marx and the Unabomber both write? A: Manifestos
Q: What Mexican general defeated the Texans at the Alamo? A: Antonio López de Santa Anna
Q: What 1950's subculture was famous for wearing berets, playing bongos, and snapping? A: Beatniks
Q: Who famously lived at Robben Island prison from 1964-1990? A: Nelson Mandela
Q: What group of French-speaking people settled in Louisiana after being forced out of eastern Canada? A: Acadians
Q: What is Queen Mary I of England's unflattering nickname? A: Bloody Mary
Q: Who was the main author of the U.S. Declaration of Independence? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: Which country was divided near the 38th parallel in 1953? A: Korea
Q: "Who said ""the die is cast"" as he crossed the Rubicon?" A: Julius Caesar
Q: Who abdicated in 1936 in order to marry American divorcée Wallis Simpson? A: King Edward VIII
Q: Which country was ruled by Idi Amin? A: Uganda
Q: In what extinct language were the Hindu Vedas written? A: Sanskrit
Q: What duo did Sacagawea help on their famous journey to the Pacific? A: Lewis and Clark
Q: Where were Walter Raleigh, Anne Boleyn, and Guy Fawkes imprisoned? A: Tower of London
Q: What was New York City called before 1664? A: New Amsterdam
Q: England will never fall as long as what type of bird can be found in London Tower? A: Ravens
Q: What lady supposedly rode naked through the streets of Coventry, seen only by Peeping Tom? A: Lady Godiva
Q: What nation was led by Ho Chi Minh? A: North Vietnam
Q: Who was the first European to reach India by sea? A: Vasco da Gama
Q: In what country did the Bay of Pigs invasion happen? A: Cuba
Q: "What French feminist wrote ""The Second Sex""?" A: Simone de Beauvoir
Q: What Greek hero did Alexander model himself after? A: Achilles
Q: Phrenologists believed they could determine a person's character by measuring their what? A: Skull
Q: What Roman dome, commissioned by Agrippa in ancient times, still stands today? A: The Pantheon
Q: In what country was the Pravda newspaper published? A: Soviet Union
Q: What giant bird was hunted to extinction by Māori people on New Zealand? A: Moa
Q: What canal opened in 1869 after 10 years of excavation using forced labor? A: Suez Canal
Q: "What was the name of Dorothy's dog in ""The Wizard of Oz""?" A: Toto
Q: Who was the first actor to star as Batman? A: Adam West
Q: What movie starred Natalie Portman and Mila Kunis? A: Black Swan
Q: What movie took place in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania? A: Groundhog Day
Q: "What object was used as a murder weapon at the end of the movie ""There Will Be Blood""?" A: Bowling Pin
Q: "Who starred as Arnold Schwarzenegger's ""Twin""?" A: Danny DeVito
Q: "What was the name of the snowman in the movie ""Frozen""?" A: Olaf
Q: "In what country did the movie ""Mad Max"" take place?" A: Australia
Q: In what movie did Gene Kelly dance with a streetlight? A: Singin' in the Rain
Q: What musical featured the music of ABBA? A: Mamma Mia!
Q: "What was the name of the villain in the movie ""Die Hard""?" A: Hans Gruber
Q: "What type of animal did the crew of the USS Enterprise need to rescue in ""Star Trek IV: The Journey Home""?" A: Humpback Whales
Q: "In what city did the movie ""Slumdog Millionaire"" take place?" A: Mumbai
Q: "What ""physical"" actress starred alongside John Travolta in ""Grease""?" A: Olivia Newton-John
Q: What golf movie starred Chevy Chase, Bill Murray, and Rodney Dangerfield? A: Caddyshack
Q: What movie featured the Dread Pirate Roberts? A: The Princess Bride
Q: "What was the intellectual faction in the movie ""Divergent""?" A: Erudite
Q: What dystopian movie is named after a country? A: Brazil
Q: "Who directed the movie ""American Sniper""?" A: Clint Eastwood
Q: "What was the name on the fake ID in the movie ""Superbad""?" A: McLovin
Q: Who did Brad Pitt dump for Angelina Jolie? A: Jennifer Aniston
Q: "Who starred as identical twins in the 1998 remake of ""The Parent Trap""?" A: Lindsay Lohan
Q: Who does Mothra often do battle with? A: Godzilla
Q: Who once enjoyed eating human liver, fava beans, and a nice chianti? A: Hannibal Lecter
Q: "What sculpture appeared at the end of the movie ""Planet of the Apes""?" A: The Statue of Liberty
Q: "In what movie did Will Ferrell say ""We're gonna skate to one song and one song only""?" A: Blades of Glory
Q: "What singer starred as a man with boobs in the movie ""Fight Club""?" A: Meat Loaf
Q: In 2010, Kathryn Bigelow became the first woman to win an Oscar for Best Director. What movie did she win for? A: The Hurt Locker
Q: In what movie did John Cusack serenade a girl by holding a boom box above his head? A: Say Anything
Q: "Who did Meryl Streep portray in the movie ""The Iron Lady""?" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: What movie is about an a cappella girl's group called The Barden Bellas? A: Pitch Perfect
Q: What is the highest prize awarded at the Cannes Film Festival? A: Palme d'Or
Q: What was Paul Blart's job? A: Mall Cop
Q: Who has starred opposite Tom Hanks in three different romantic comedies? A: Meg Ryan
Q: "What actor starred in ""Batman"" and ""Birdman""?" A: Michael Keaton
Q: What famous actress is the daughter of Jon Voight? A: Angelina Jolie
Q: In what John Candy movie did the U.S. invade Canada? A: Canadian Bacon
Q: "What activity is the subject of the movie ""Bring it On""?" A: Cheerleading
Q: "What city was the destination of Harry and Lloyd in the movie ""Dumb and Dumber""?" A: Aspen
Q: Who was Jessica Rabbit's husband? A: Roger Rabbit
Q: "Who wrote the score to ""Star Wars"", ""Raiders of the Lost Ark"", and ""Jurassic Park""?" A: John Williams
Q: Who dated Ellen Degeneres from 1997-2000? A: Anne Heche
Q: What 2013 Martin Scorsese film set a record for the most F-bombs dropped in a mainstream movie? A: The Wolf of Wall Street
Q: "In what country was ""The Lord of the Rings"" trilogy filmed?" A: New Zealand
Q: "What band made a movie called ""The Wall""?" A: Pink Floyd
Q: Who starred as The Tramp? A: Charlie Chaplin
Q: What Hollywood family had/has members Lionel, John, Ethel, and Drew? A: Barrymore
Q: "What kid's movie had a ""Squeakquel""?" A: Alvin and the Chipmunks
Q: Who has starred as Madea in 8 different movies? A: Tyler Perry
Q: "Who is the only person to have won 3 Oscars for Best Actor? (His first was for ""My Left Foot"")" A: Daniel Day-Lewis
Q: What detective movie starred Madonna and Warren Beatty? A: Dick Tracy
Q: "What does Mike Wazowski study in the movie ""Monsters University""?" A: Scaring
Q: "In what city did the movie ""Lost in Translation"" take place?" A: Tokyo
Q: What movie was named after a city in North Dakota but actually took place mostly in Minnesota? A: Fargo
Q: "What actress was nicknamed ""Hanoi Jane""?" A: Jane Fonda
Q: What actor has portrayed Malcolm X, Frank Lucas, and Rubin Carter? A: Denzel Washington
Q: Who died in 1791 in Vienna, while working on a Requiem? A: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Q: Who famously wore a cone-shaped bra? A: Madonna
Q: Complete the lyric: Come, Mister tally man, tally me ... A: Banana
Q: What type of shoes did Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley sing about? A: Blue Suede Shoes
Q: What song by Billy Joel is frequently requested at dueling piano bars? A: Piano Man
Q: What are Glastonbury, Coachella, and Bonnaroo? A: Music Festivals
Q: "Who wrote the album ""No Jacket Required"" in response to being denied entrance to a fancy restaurant for not wearing a proper jacket?" A: Phil Collins
Q: What 1985 song featured dozens of famous artists and raised $100 million for charity in Africa? A: We are the World
Q: What voice-altering technology was famously used by T-Pain and Cher? A: Auto-Tune
Q: "Who originally wrote the song ""All Along the Watchtower"", famously covered by Jimi Hendrix?" A: Bob Dylan
Q: What instrument was made obsolete by the piano? A: Harpsichord
Q: What is either a popular heavy metal band or a Medieval torture device? A: Iron Maiden
Q: What heavy metal band has a one-armed drummer? A: Def Leppard
Q: What Christmas ballet was composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky? A: The Nutcracker
Q: "Who famously sang ""Over the Rainbow""?" A: Judy Garland
Q: "Who partnered with Jay-Z to record ""Watch the Throne""?" A: Kanye West
Q: On what island did reggae originate? A: Jamaica
Q: What Neptunes producer and N*E*R*D member became a popular solo artist? A: Pharrell Williams
Q: What type of musical instrument has a chanter and a drone? A: Bagpipes
Q: What Spanish music form often features palmas (clapping) and pitos (finger snapping)? A: Flamenco
Q: What song is Warren G famous for? A: Regulate
Q: What singer was discovered in 2007 by Scooter Braun? (although many wish he hadn't been) A: Justin Bieber
Q: Who famously ate peanut butter, banana, and bacon sandwiches? A: Elvis Presley
Q: What is the national instrument of Ireland? A: Harp
Q: "Nirvana's most famous song is probably ""Smells Like Teen Spirit"". What is Teen Spirit?" A: Deodorant
Q: What band did Zack de la Rocha and Tom Morello play in? A: Rage Against the Machine
Q: "What movie featured the songs ""Danger Zone"" and ""Take My Breath Away""?" A: Top Gun
Q: In what music video did NSYNC dance like marionettes? A: Bye Bye Bye
Q: What stringed instrument starts with Z, and is traditionally found in parts of Eastern Europe? A: Zither
Q: "What song by Michael Jackson asks ""Annie are you O.K.""?" A: Smooth Criminal
Q: "Who recorded the rap album ""good kid, m.A.A.d city""?" A: Kendrick Lamar
Q: Delta, Chicago, and Kansas City are subgenres of what type of music? A: Blues
Q: What singer has the most Twitter followers? A: Katy Perry
Q: "Who wrote music for a ""Well-Tempered Clavier""?" A: J.S. Bach
Q: What type of dance was famously performed at the Moulin Rouge? A: Can-Can
Q: What, according to Kanye West, was one of the best music videos of all time? A: Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)
Q: "What percussion instrument was prominently featured in the song ""(Don't Fear) The Reaper""?" A: Cowbell
Q: What country singer has friends in low places? A: Garth Brooks
Q: What, according to Gil Scott-Heron, will not be televised? A: The Revolution
Q: "What genre of music was New York's ""Studio 54"" most associated with?" A: Disco
Q: "Who wrote ""Rhapsody in Blue""?" A: George Gershwin
Q: "What British rock band recorded ""I Bet You Look Good on the Dancefloor"" and ""Fluorescent Adolescent""?" A: The Arctic Monkeys
Q: What stringed instrument did King David play? A: Lyre
Q: What 1990's hip hop group had a DJ named Spinderella? A: Salt-N-Pepa
Q: What Italian violin virtuoso was rumored to have sold his soul to the devil? A: Niccolò Paganini
Q: What is the name for the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca? A: Hajj
Q: What is Hinduism's most sacred animal? A: Cow
Q: What series of wars was an attempt by European Christians to retake the holy land? A: Crusades
Q: Who is the Norse god of Thunder? A: Thor
Q: In what city was the Jewish temple located? A: Jerusalem
Q: According to Islamic law, what can a man have no more than four of at any one time? A: Wives
Q: In Indian religions, what is the word for the state of enlightenment and freedom from suffering? A: Nirvana
Q: Who defeated Goliath and wrote Psalms? A: King David
Q: In what city is the most famous Mormon Temple located? A: Salt Lake City
Q: What is the indigenous religion of Japan? A: Shinto
Q: According to the Bible, in what city was Jesus born? A: Bethlehem
Q: "What Christian denomination is also known as ""Friends""?" A: Quakers
Q: Who was the Egyptian sun god? (Hint: his name is only two letters long) A: Ra
Q: What is the first book in the Bible? A: Genesis
Q: Who is the most important prophet in Islam? A: Muhammad
Q: What mountain was the home of the Greek gods? A: Mount Olympus
Q: Who was the Greek god of the underworld? A: Hades
Q: What are the two main branches of Islam? A: Sunni
Q: Besides India, what other country is predominately Hindu? A: Nepal
Q: Who was the first supreme head of the Church of England? A: Henry VIII
Q: What modern witchcraft religion was invented by Gerald Gardner? A: Wicca
Q: In what ancient country did Zoroastrianism originate? A: Persia
Q: What religion is based on the teachings of Laozi? A: Taoism
Q: What was the Greek name of the Roman goddess Venus? A: Aphrodite
Q: What Jamaican religious tradition was practiced by Bob Marley? A: Rastafari
Q: What Norse god was the ruler of Asgard? A: Odin
Q: What is the name of the Jewish coming-of-age ceremony? A: Bar or Bat Mitzvah
Q: What was the food of the Greek gods? A: Ambrosia
Q: Who founded the Mormon church? A: Joseph Smith
Q: What is the name for a person who is a member of the Church of England? A: Anglican
Q: What is the largest Protestant denomination in the United States? A: Southern Baptist
Q: "What Arabic word means ""struggle"" but is often interpreted as ""Holy War""?" A: Jihad
Q: What Jewish relic contained the tablets on which the Ten Commandments were written? A: Ark of the Covenant
Q: What Jewish king is credited with building the first temple of Jerusalem? A: Solomon
Q: Pele is the volcano goddess of what island chain? A: Hawaii
Q: What religious group places a great importance on wearing the turban? A: Sikh
Q: What is the top caste in Hindu society? A: Brahmins
Q: "In what religion can you become an ""Operating Thetan""?" A: Scientology
Q: What name refers to a priest in ancient Celtic religions? A: Druid
Q: Ganesh is depicted as having the head of what type of animal? A: Elephant
Q: What type of bird returned to Noah's ark with an olive branch? A: Dove
Q: What country once worshipped a sun god named Ra? A: Egypt
Q: What was the profession of Joseph, Jesus's father? A: Carpenter
Q: Who gained enlightenment sitting under a Bodhi tree? A: Buddha
Q: What is the name for a system of law based on Islamic principles? A: Sharia
Q: Who is the current pope? A: Francis
Q: What term refers to foods that Jewish people are allowed to eat? A: Kosher
Q: What former country was ruled by the Dalai Lama? A: Tibet
Q: What is the primary language of Hinduism? A: Sanskrit
Q: In what country is Vodou commonly practiced? A: Haiti
Q: What is the most common Protestant denomination in Scandinavia and Germany? A: Lutheranism
Q: What river was Jesus baptised in? (Hint: It is on the eastern border of modern-day Israel) A: River Jordan
Q: In Jewish folklore, what is the name for a monster made of clay? A: Golem
Q: What nickname refers to followers of Sun Myung Moon? A: Moonies
Q: Who was the only President to serve two non-consecutive terms? A: Grover Cleveland
Q: What model of Chevy, discontinued in 1987, was a car in front and a pickup truck in back? A: El Camino
Q: Who supposedly threw a silver dollar across the Potomac River? A: George Washington
Q: What U.S. state was the end point of the Trail of Tears? A: Oklahoma
Q: What rating replaced X in the movie theaters? A: NC-17
Q: What organization did John Walker Lindh join in 2001? A: The Taliban
Q: What holiday on June 19th celebrates the abolition of slavery in Texas? A: Juneteenth
Q: What TV host would pretend to be a psychic swami named Carnac the Magnificent? A: Johnny Carson
Q: Who did Anita Hill accuse of sexual harrassment? A: Clarence Thomas
Q: "What ""ageless"" TV star used to host ""New Year's Rockin Eve""?" A: Dick Clark
Q: What African-American Christmas alternative was first celebrated in 1966? A: Kwanzaa
Q: What position in the U.S. government has been held by Hillary Clinton, Colin Powell, and Henry Kissinger? A: Secretary of State
Q: What are Riker's Island and Sing Sing? A: Prisons
Q: "What company makes ""57 varieties"" of sauces?" A: Heinz
Q: What song is commonly played when the President of the United States enters a room? A: Hail to the Chief
Q: What type of hat did Davy Crockett famously wear? A: Coonskin Cap
Q: Who did Dennis the Menace irritate more than anyone else? A: Mr. Wilson
Q: On what avenue would you find the flagship location of Saks department store? A: Fifth Avenue
Q: What ice cream chain offered 31 flavors? A: Baskin-Robbins
Q: Who is the U.S. interstate highway system named for? A: Dwight Eisenhower
Q: "What industry is sometimes referred to as ""Madison Avenue""?" A: Advertising
Q: What city is home to the University of Michigan? A: Ann Arbor
Q: What are the three biggest cities in Montana that start with the letter B? A: Billings
Q: Who was the first person to sign the Declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: "What type of animal appeared on the ""don't tread of me"" flag?" A: Rattlesnake
Q: "Who sang ""Don't be fooled by the rocks that I got / I'm still Jenny from the block""" A: Jennifer Lopez
Q: In what country was Barack Obama's father born? A: Kenya
Q: What breed of cattle is the Texas state animal? A: Texas Longhorn
Q: Hope, Arkansas is the birthplace of two well-known politicians. One is Mike Huckabee. Who is the other? A: Bill Clinton
Q: What type of loans does Sallie Mae primarily deal with? A: Student Loans
Q: "In the ""Peanuts"" comic strip, what Halloween spirit does Linus believe in?" A: The Great Pumpkin
Q: "Who jumped from the balcony of Ford's Theatre yelling ""Sic semper tyrannis""?" A: John Wilkes Booth
Q: What American fairy tale character fell asleep for twenty years? A: Rip Van Winkle
Q: What county of Iowa is famous for its covered bridges, and was featured in a movie starring Clint Eastwood? A: Madison County
Q: What crop was farmed by Jimmy Carter? A: Peanuts
Q: What country did 15 of the September 11th hijackers come from? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: "What TV character said ""I am the one who knocks""?" A: Walter White
Q: Which Las Vegas casino has an ancient Roman theme? A: Caesars Palace
Q: What Crayola crayon color, starting with the letter P, is a pale blue? A: Periwinkle
Q: Who finished 3rd in the 1992 Presidential election? A: Ross Perot
Q: "What product is ""Dolphin Safe"" in the U.S. but not necessarily in other countries?" A: Tunafish
Q: What type of product is Mrs. Butterworth's? A: Syrup
Q: "What was once described by a U.S. senator as ""a series of tubes""?" A: Internet
Q: What recent Broadway hit is about the life of one of the founding fathers? A: Hamilton
Q: What is either a large rock or a city in Colorado? A: Boulder
Q: What's the best-selling variety of Girl Scout cookies? A: Thin Mints
Q: What city did Brandon and Brenda Walsh move to in high school? A: Beverly Hills
Q: What cereal is for kids, silly rabbit? A: Trix
Q: What reality TV show did the villainous Omarosa appear in? A: The Apprentice
Q: What is either an album by the Red Hot Chili Peppers or a show starring David Duchovny? A: Californication
Q: What product did Phil Robertson get rich by selling? A: Duck Calls
Q: Whose likeness did Republicans propose putting on the dime, in 2003? A: Ronald Reagan's
Q: What, according to Yogi Berra, ain't worth a dime anymore? A: a Nickel
Q: What language did the Pennsylvania Dutch speak? A: German
Q: What is the second most valuable crop in the U.S. - after corn? A: Soybeans
Q: What city's Lower Ninth Ward is partially below sea level? A: New Orleans
Q: What is the only U.S. state where prostitution is legal? A: Nevada
Q: "What type of surgery do the main characters of ""Nip/Tuck"" practice?" A: Plastic Surgery
Q: Whose grave is marked by an eternal flame at Arlington National Cemetery? A: John F. Kennedy
Q: What variety of Girl Scout cookies contains toasted coconut? A: Samoas
Q: What does Frederick's of Hollywood sell? A: Lingerie
Q: What body has been led by John Jay, John Marshall, and Earl Warren? A: The Supreme Court
Q: What company's 2012 bankruptcy caused a brief halt in the production of Twinkies? A: Hostess
Q: Whose statue was removed from public view in State College, Pennsylvania? A: Joe Paterno
Q: What were Big Brown, War Emblem, and Seattle Slew? A: Racehorses
Q: What is the state food of Maryland? A: Blue Crabs
Q: What teenage doctor was portrayed by Neil Patrick Harris? A: Doogie Howser
Q: Which TV show starred James Gandolfini, Edie Falco, and Jamie-Lynn Sigler? A: The Sopranos
Q: Complete the analogy. Sooner is to Oklahoma as _______ is to Indiana. A: Hoosier
Q: What famous billionaire investor lives in Omaha, Nebraska? A: Warren Buffett
Q: What is the flagship campus of the University of California? A: Berkeley
Q: What is the best-selling band whose name is a U.S. state? A: Alabama
Q: What does FAO Schwarz sell? A: Toys
Q: What TV show was created by Matt Stone and Trey Parker? A: South Park
Q: What dialect did the Oakland school district once propose teaching classes in? A: Ebonics
Q: What type of horses are prominently featured in Budweiser advertisements? A: Clydesdale
Q: In what city would you find the headquarters of Amazon.com? A: Seattle
Q: What invasive species has been blamed for reducing mammal populations in the Everglades? A: Burmese Python
Q: What round comes after Double Jeopardy? A: Final Jeopardy
Q: What type of pizza is Chicago known for? A: Deep Dish
Q: "What former prison, located in San Francisco Bay, is called ""The Rock""?" A: Alcatraz
Q: What state's capital city is Charleston? A: West Virginia
Q: What is Mark Wahlberg's home town? A: Boston
Q: What type of fighting knife is named after a frontiersman who died at the Battle of the Alamo? A: Bowie Knife
Q: What river connects New York City and Albany? A: Hudson River
Q: "What composer's ""Hoe-down"" might you also remember from the commercial ""Beef, it's what's for dinner""?" A: Aaron Copland
Q: What politician had great hair - and served as John Kerry's running mate in 2004? A: John Edwards
Q: What state symbol of Ohio is similar to a chestnut - except that it is poisonous? A: Buckeye
Q: What was the wrestling nickname of former Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura? A: The Body
Q: "What state is called ""Big Sky Country""?" A: Montana
Q: "Who flips the tiles on ""Wheel of Fortune""?" A: Vanna White
Q: What does Rold Gold make? A: Pretzels
Q: What proposed amendment was approved by Congress in 1972, and ratified by 35 of the necessary 38 states? A: Equal Rights Amendment
Q: What German-born Secretary of State served under Presidents Nixon and Ford? A: Henry Kissinger
Q: "Who starred as AC Slater in ""Saved by the Bell""?" A: Mario Lopez
Q: What AOL catchphrase is also the name of a Tom Hanks movie? A: You've Got Mail
Q: "Who replaced Charlie Sheen on ""Two And A Half Men""?" A: Ashton Kutcher
Q: What is the most popular TV show that took place in the city of Albuquerque? A: Breaking Bad
Q: What was discovered in the Black Hills in 1874? A: Gold
Q: What breed of dog is Marmaduke? A: Great Dane
Q: What 1954 Supreme Court case made school segregation illegal? A: Brown v. Board of Education
Q: Who is He-Man's twin sister? A: She-Ra
Q: What type of moss typically grows on Live Oak and Cypress trees? A: Spanish Moss
Q: "Who played Uncle Jesse on the show ""Full House""?" A: John Stamos
Q: What street do Bert and Ernie live on? A: Sesame Street
Q: Who, according to the Chicago Tribune, did Thomas Dewey defeat in 1948? A: Harry S Truman
Q: What Native American warrior is the subject of an unfinished outdoor sculpture that dwarfs Mount Rushmore? A: Crazy Horse
Q: "Complete the John F. Kennedy Quote: ""Ich Bin Ein ......""" A: Berliner
Q: What city is Delta Airlines headquartered in? A: Atlanta
Q: What came to an end in Appomattox Court House, Virginia? A: The Civil War
Q: "What syndrome did Corky have on the show ""Life Goes On""?" A: Down Syndrome
Q: "Who hosted the show ""No Reservations"" on the Travel Channel?" A: Anthony Bourdain
Q: What gemstone has a blue-green color and is common in the Southwest United States? A: Turquoise
Q: Fill the blank in the quote: Will it ____ in Peoria? A: Play
Q: "What is the ""twin city"" of Minneapolis?" A: St. Paul
Q: What were the Spruce Goose and the Spirit of St. Louis? A: Airplanes
Q: What is forbidden by the Fifth Amendment, but happens on a game show hosted by Alex Trebek? A: Double Jeopardy
Q: What fraternal organization is known for wearing fezzes and driving miniature cars? A: Shriners
Q: "What city in Kansas did people need to ""get the hell outta""?" A: Dodge City
Q: "What TV program once concluded with ""A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney""?" A: 60 Minutes
Q: What are forbidden on Michigan's Mackinac Island? A: Cars
Q: Who is the President of the Senate? A: The Vice President
Q: What was the lowest terror alert level ever reached? A: Elevated (Yellow)
Q: What were installed on the White House roof by Jimmy Carter (but removed by Ronald Reagan)? A: Solar Panels
Q: "What singer, nicknamed Bocephus, sang the theme song to ""Monday Night Football""?" A: Hank Williams Jr.
Q: What criminal was famously pursued by Eliot Ness? A: Al Capone
Q: What 2008 Presidential candidate was not born in a U.S. state? A: John McCain
Q: What alien was over 200 years old, wanted to eat the family cat, and had a girlfriend named Rhonda? A: ALF
Q: In what city is NASA's mission control center located? A: Houston
Q: Who is smarter than the average bear? A: Yogi Bear
Q: "Who was the original host of ""America's Funniest Home Videos""?" A: Bob Saget
Q: Who tried to jump over Snake River Canyon in a rocket-powered motorcycle? A: Evel Knievel
Q: What is the highest level of security clearance in the United States? A: Top Secret
Q: Who is Kermit the Frog's girlfriend? A: Miss Piggy
Q: "Who wrote ""The Star-Spangled Banner""?" A: Francis Scott Key
Q: "What type of animal was the subject of the movie ""Blackfish""?" A: Killer Whale
Q: Who did Gerald R. Ford famously pardon in 1974? A: Richard Nixon
Q: In what New York neighborhood would one find the Apollo Theater? A: Harlem
Q: What are all the children in the town of Lake Wobegon, Minnesota? A: Above Average
Q: "In the show ""The A-Team"", what was the only thing that B.A. Baracus was afraid of?" A: Flying
Q: "Who was at the center of the square in the opening credits to ""The Brady Bunch""?" A: Alice
Q: In what Colorado ski town does the average home sell for over $5 million? A: Aspen
Q: What is the biggest city in Maricopa county? A: Phoenix
Q: What mountain was officially known as Mount McKinley until 2015? A: Denali
Q: On what bay does St. Petersburg, Florida lie? A: Tampa Bay
Q: What is the capital of Puerto Rico? A: San Juan
Q: What did the United States buy from France in 1803? A: Louisiana Territory
Q: What pioneer trail started in Independence, Missouri and ended in the Willamette Valley? A: Oregon Trail
Q: What U.S. territory in the Pacific was taken from Spain? A: Guam
Q: What volcano famously erupted on May 18, 1980? A: Mount St. Helens
Q: In what city is the U.S. Military Academy located? A: West Point
Q: What city's Presidio was at one time a Spanish, Mexican, and U.S. fort - and is now a park? A: San Francisco
Q: What New Hampshire mountain is famous for having the highest wind speed ever recorded in the U.S.? A: Mount Washington
Q: What notable University is located in New Haven, Connecticut? A: Yale
Q: What city in Rhode Island is famous for its many mansions built during the late 1800's? A: Newport
Q: What canal connects the cities of Buffalo and Albany? A: Erie Canal
Q: What city is served by O'Hare and Midway airports? A: Chicago
Q: What cave, located in Kentucky, has over 400 miles of passages? A: Mammoth Cave
Q: What notable university is located in South Bend, Indiana? A: Notre Dame
Q: "On what island are ""The Hamptons"" located?" A: Long Island
Q: What activity makes Aspen, Vail, and Breckenridge famous? A: Skiing
Q: What historical highway connected Chicago to Santa Monica? A: Route 66
Q: What National Park borders the city of Gatlinburg, Tennessee? A: Great Smoky Mountains
Q: What is Georgia's largest city on the Atlantic coast? A: Savannah
Q: What was formerly the biggest industry in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania? A: Steel
Q: Which of the Florida Keys has the highest population? A: Key West
Q: On what bay does Annapolis, Maryland lie? A: Chesapeake Bay
Q: What is the second biggest city in Arizona? A: Tucson
Q: Other than corn, what is most commonly grown crop in the United States? A: Soybeans
Q: What city on the East Coast has the largest gambling industry? A: Atlantic City
Q: What article of clothing does the lower peninsula of Michigan resemble? A: Mitten
Q: What city in Minnesota borders Lake Superior? A: Duluth
Q: What is the westernmost city in Texas? A: El Paso
Q: "What city is sometimes called ""Nola""?" A: New Orleans
Q: What is the state animal of Wisconsin? A: Badger
Q: What is the nearest major city to the Hoover Dam? A: Las Vegas
Q: What blue-green rock is the state gemstone of Arizona? A: Turquoise
Q: What unusual religious group are numerous in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania? A: Amish
Q: What type of moss commonly grows on Live Oak and Bald Cypress trees in the southeast? A: Spanish Moss
Q: Which state grows the most corn? A: Iowa
Q: What is the capital of Idaho? A: Boise
Q: What is the largest city on Alabama's Gulf Coast? A: Mobile
Q: In what city would you find Beale Street, famous for its blues clubs? A: Memphis
Q: What is the least populous borough of New York City? A: Staten Island
Q: In what city might you visit the Alamo or take a stroll on the River Walk? A: San Antonio
Q: What is the biggest city in North Dakota? A: Fargo
Q: Which state has the lowest population density? A: Alaska
Q: What city is home to the University of Colorado? A: Boulder
Q: "On what ""strip"" in Los Angeles would you find famous clubs such as the Roxy and the Viper Room?" A: Sunset Strip
Q: What bridge, between Manhattan and New Jersey, is the world's busiest motor vehicle bridge? A: George Washington Bridge
Q: On what trail can one walk from Maine to Georgia? A: Appalachian Trail
Q: What National Park is located in northwestern Wyoming? A: Yellowstone
Q: What U.S. territory includes the islands of Saint Croix, Saint John, and Saint Thomas? A: U.S. Virgin Islands
Q: What desert, starting with the letter M, can be found in southeast California? A: Mojave Desert
Q: What famous cracked bell can be found in Philadelphia? A: Liberty Bell
Q: Which major city has the highest percentage of African-American residents (82%)? A: Detroit
Q: What small city in the Ozark mountains is famous for its musical theatres? A: Branson, Missouri
Q: What country is located 70 miles due east of Palm Beach, Florida? A: Bahamas
Q: What ocean gulf borders 5 states, including Florida and Texas? A: The Gulf of Mexico
Q: In what mountain range is California's Mt. Whitney located? A: Sierra Nevada
Q: What interstate highway connects the cities of Boston and Seattle? A: I-90
Q: Sarawak is the largest of the thirteen states, which comprise which Asian country? A: MALAYSIA
Q: Michael O'Hehir (pronounced O'Hair) was, for many years, a commentator for the BBC on which sporting event? A: THE GRAND NATIONAL
Q: "Which WWII aircraft was known as, ""The Flying Porcupine""?" A: SUNDERLAND FLYING BOAT
Q: Part of the Rootes group, which car company produced a model called the Chamois in the 1960's? A: SINGER
Q: Which TV series featured the characters, Tinker, Eric Catchpole and Lady Jane Felsham? A: LOVEJOY
Q: In 1982, Sarah Jane Hutt was the last English winner of which title? A: MISS WORLD
Q: What name is given to the naturally occurring alloy of gold and silver, often used in bygone days in the manufacture of coins? A: ELECTRUM
Q: Which spice is produced from the dried leaves of wild marjoram? A: OREGANO
Q: On which island is the city of Syracuse, ancient home to the mathematician and scientist, Archimedes? A: SICILY
Q: What is the more common name for Vibrissae, found on all feline creatures? A: CATS WHISKERS
Q: "What name is given to the long ""whiskers"" found on some fish of the carp family?" A: BARBELS
Q: Which human facial feature is properly known as a diastema? A: THE GAP BETWEEN THE FRONT TEETH
Q: "How is the priest described in the nursery rhyme, ""The House that Jack Built""?" A: ALL SHAVEN and SHORN
Q: When used in the manufacture of jewellery, which metal is usually alloyed with Platinum? A: IRIDIUM
Q: "What was the name of James Onedin's ship in the TV series ""The Onedin Line""?" A: CHARLOTTE RHODES
Q: Part of British Leyland, which car company produced a model called the Ital in the 1980's A: MORRIS
Q: Who was the last man to win the British Open Golf Championship on three consecutive occasions? A: PETER THOMSON
Q: Adam's Peak, (also called Buddha's or Siva's Peak), stands in which island country? A: SRI LANKA
Q: During which astronomical phenomenon, would a person see Baily's Beads? A: A TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE
Q: Caroline of Ansbach was the wife of which British King? A: GEORGE II
Q: "The film, ""High Society"" was a musical version of which 1939 comedy film, starring Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant?" A: THE PHILADELPHIA STORY
Q: Which French wine region, North of Lyons, produces Chiroubles and Saint Amour red wines? A: BEAUJOLAIS
Q: Who were Manchester Utd's opponents in January 1948, when the highest ever attendance at a Football League match was recorded? A: ARSENAL
Q: In the bible, which prophet was taken up to Heaven in a fiery chariot? A: ELIJAH
Q: Which actress was married to comedy actor Peter Sellers at the time of his death in 1980? A: LYNN FREDERICK
Q: What is the Latin name for the element Sodium, giving rise to its chemical formula Na? A: NATRIUM
Q: "In the TV series, ""Enterprise"", first aired in 2001, what was the name of the ship's captain, played by actor Scott Bakula?" A: JONATHAN ARCHER
Q: "Which British playwright sprang to fame in 1936 with his comedy, ""French Without Tears""?" A: TERENCE RATTIGAN
Q: During World War II, which of the German leaders was head of the SS? A: HEINRICH HIMMLER
Q: "Who was the unusual duettist with Bing Crosby, on his 1977 Christmas Show, singing their version of ""Little Drummer Boy""? The recording became a big hit five years later." A: DAVID BOWIE
Q: The Western Roll, is a long disused technique, once practised in which sporting event? A: THE HIGH JUMP
Q: "Which British musician had U.K. No 1 hits with his instrumental versions of the tunes, ""Oh Mein Papa"" in 1954, and in 1955 with, ""Cherry Pink and Apple Blossom White""?" A: EDDIE CALVERT
Q: Joseph Goebbels was the head of which Nazi ministry from 1933 until 1945? A: PROPAGANDA
Q: Which award winning play, written by Alan Bennett, later made into a film, is set in the fictional Cutler's Grammar School in Sheffield? A: THE HISTORY BOYS
Q: "Which classical singer sang the theme song ""Where My Heart Will Take Me"", for the TV series, ""Enterprise""?" A: RUSSELL WATSON
Q: The Recreation Cricket Ground in St John's, on the island of Antigua, is also known by the name of which famous West Indian cricketer? A: SIR VIVIAN RICHARDS
Q: "Which actor, star of the 1950 film, ""Sunset Boulevard"", died after a fall at his home in Santa Monica in 1981?" A: WILLIAM HOLDEN
Q: The temple of which of their gods was destroyed by Samson, as his last act of war against the Philistines? A: DAGON
Q: Which creature appears on the current English £10 note alongside Charles Darwin? A: A HUMMINGBIRD
Q: Who won the Rugby League Challenge Cup in 1954, beating Halifax in a replay at Odsal Stadium, before a world record crowd for a Rugby League match of 102,000? A: WARRINGTON
Q: Which wine area, in the Bordeaux region, lies between the River Gironde and the Atlantic coast? A: MEDOC
Q: "The 1942 film, ""Casablanca"" was based on which play, written by Joan Alison and Murray Burnett?" A: EVERYBODY COMES TO RICKS
Q: Which Queen Consort of England was tried for adultery, and barred from her husband's coronation in 1821? A: CAROLINE OF BRUNSWICK
Q: On which racecourse did Frankie Dettori win all seven races on the card in 1996? A: ASCOT
Q: The rap star Marshall Mathers is better known by which stage name? A: EMINEM
Q: Mrs Maria Fitzherbert illegally married which future King of England in 1785? A: GEORGE IV
Q: In which Australian City is St Paul's Cathedral sited opposite Flinders Street station? A: MELBOURNE
Q: Gloucester and England Rugby Union player, Lesley Vainikolo, was born in which country? A: TONGA
Q: "In the 1960's, which jazz pianist wrote the pieces, ""It's a Raggy Waltz"", ""Unsquare Dance"" and ""Blue Rondo a la Turk""?" A: DAVE BRUBECK
Q: "In the 1968 film, ""The Odd Couple"", the part of Oscar Madison was played by Walter Matthau. Which actor played the part in the TV adaptation?" A: JACK KLUGMAN
Q: Who was the Greek God of wine, equivalent to the Roman God Bacchus? A: DIONYSUS
Q: Thojib Suharto was President and dictator of which Asian country from 1968 to 1998? A: INDONESIA
Q: In Neolithic times, what was the purpose of a dolmen? A: A TOMB
Q: "In Shakespeare's play, ""The Tempest"", which character has the title, ""Duke of Milan""?" A: PROSPERO
Q: What was the name of Russia's first permanently manned space station, launched in 1988? A: MIR
Q: In 1976, which Italian town was the scene of a toxic gas leak, containing the poison, Dioxin? A: SEVESO
Q: Which firm owned the factory in Bhopal in India, devastated by a poison gas leak in 1984? A: UNION CARBIDE
Q: In which Asian Capital City is the Potala Palace, now converted to a museum? A: LHASA
Q: "Who was the first female presenter of ITV's, ""News at Ten""?" A: ANNA FORD
Q: "In Shakespeare's play, ""Hamlet"", what is the name of Hamlet's uncle, who usurps the throne, marries Hamlet's mother and becomes King of Denmark""?" A: CLAUDIUS
Q: What is the name of the famous Neolithic passage tomb, situated just east of Navan town, in County Meath, Ireland? A: NEWGRANGE
Q: Who was elected President of the Palestinian National Authority in January 2005? A: MAHMOUD ABBAS
Q: Riding both Papillon in 2000, and Hedgehunter in 2005, which is the only jockey to ride two Aintree Grand National winners in the 21st century? A: RUBY WALSH
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of the Moon, equivalent to the Greek Goddess Selene? A: LUNA
Q: "In the 1950's and 60's, which jazz pianist wrote the pieces, ""Misterioso"", ""Ruby My Dear"" and ""Round Midnight""?" A: THELONIUS MONK
Q: St Helens and Gt. Britain Rugby League player, Maurie Fa'asavalu was born in which country? A: SAMOA
Q: In which New Zealand city, at the head of the Otago peninsular, is St Paul's Cathedral? A: DUNEDIN
Q: Who was the mistress of Charles II and mother of the Duke of Monmouth? A: LUCY WALTER
Q: "Which Hollywood legend directed The Godfather trilogy of films and the Vietnam War film, ""Apocalypse Now""?" A: FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA
Q: First published in 1887, which was the first book by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to feature Sherlock Holmes? A: A STUDY IN SCARLET
Q: "Which artist painted the picture, ""Bubbles"", which was used in an advertisement for Pears Soap?" A: MILLAIS
Q: Name the song, sung by Katrina and The Waves, which was last British entry to win the Eurovision Song Contest. A: LOVE SHINE A LIGHT
Q: Which stretch of water, off the S.E. coast of Italy, separates the Adriatic and Ionian Seas? A: STRAITS OF OTRANTO
Q: In his youth, actor Leslie Grantham served ten years in prison for which crime? A: MURDER
Q: Which gaseous element has the Atomic Number 2? A: HELIUM
Q: "Which English authors works include, ""Saturday Night and Sunday Morning"" and ""The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner""?" A: ALAN SILLITOE
Q: In 1994, the Hutu and the Tutsi tribes waged a war of mass genocide in which African country? A: RWANDA
Q: Which famous explorer was killed by natives in the Philippines in 1521? A: FERDINAND MAGELLAN
Q: The Olduvai Gorge, famous for its archaeological finds, is in which African country? A: TANZANIA
Q: Titania is the largest moon of which planet in our solar system? A: URANUS
Q: "Which Shakespeare play contains the line, ""Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania""?" A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: The village of Piltdown, scene of the infamous hoax find of a prehistoric skull in 1912, is in which English county? A: (EAST) SUSSEX
Q: Which famous explorer contracted malaria shortly after his arrival in Goa in 1524, and died on Christmas Eve 1524 at Cochin? A: VASCO DA GAMA
Q: Darfur, scene of mass genocide over the last few years, is part of which African country? A: SUDAN
Q: "Early works of which English playwright include, ""Chicken Soup with Barley"" and ""Roots""?" A: ARNOLD WESKER
Q: "In the 1933 film ""The Private Life of Henry VIII"", starring Charles Laughton, the part of Anne of Cleves was played by Laughton's wife in real life. Can you name this actress?" A: ELSA LANCHESTER
Q: "Which American actress, who committed suicide in Paris in 1979, played the leading female role in the film, ""Paint Your Wagon""?" A: JEAN SEBERG
Q: Which metallic element, the lightest one known, has the Atomic Number 3? A: LITHIUM
Q: "Which group won the Eurovision Song contest in 1981 with the song, ""Making Your Mind Up""?" A: BUCKS FIZZ
Q: What name is given to the rectangular piece of cloth wrapped round the waist and legs, knotted at the waist, and worn by Hindus in India? A: A DHOTI
Q: "In the novel by Edgar Allan Poe, who solved the ""Murders in the Rue Morgue""?" A: C AUGUSTE DUPIN
Q: "Which actress, who played the part of Rocky Balboa's wife, alongside Sylvester Stallone, in the ""Rocky"" films of the 1980's, is the sister of Hollywood director Francis Ford Coppola?" A: TALIA SHIRE
Q: How were the comedy duo Ian and Janette Tough better known? A: THE KRANKIES
Q: What is the name of the blind beggar in R.L.Stevenson's Treasure Island? A: PEW
Q: Which British athlete won the 100 metres gold medal at the 1924 Olympics? A: HAROLD ABRAHAMS
Q: Which palace in Spain takes its name from the colour of its sun-dried red bricks? A: ALHAMBRA
Q: Who was the only English King to be crowned on the field of battle? A: HENRY VII
Q: Which work by Berthold Brecht and Kurt Weil is based on a work by John Gay? A: The THREEPENNY OPERA
Q: Who was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion from 1978-1985, defending his title 20 times before losing to Michael Spinks? A: LARRY HOLMES
Q: What is the name of the mongoose in Rudyard Kipling's 'The Jungle Book'? A: RIKKI TIKKI TAVI
Q: What product is obtained form the tree 'Hevea Braziliensis'? A: LATEX
Q: Who played 'First Voice' in the original BBC radio production of 'Under Milk Wood' (and also in the film version)? A: RICHARD BURTON
Q: The dialect of which Semitic language was spoken by Jesus Christ? A: ARAMAIC
Q: Grandpa Frost is the equivalent of Father Christmas in which country? A: RUSSIA
Q: During WW2, which building was the headquarters of Fighter Command? A: BENTLEY PRIORY
Q: Which boxing Champion was known as 'The Fighting Marine'? A: GENE TUNNEY
Q: Jean Valjean is the central character in which classical novel? A: LES MISERABLES
Q: Where, on the Baltic coast, was the German missile site where V1 rockets were designed and built? A: PEENEMUNDE
Q: The opera ' Beatrice and Benedict' by Berlioz is based on which Shakespeare play? A: MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
Q: What collective name is given to Jews dispersed around the world? A: The DIASPORA
Q: In a children's' book, if Elphaba is the wicked witch of the west, who is the good witch of the South? A: GLINDA
Q: In the title of the detective story by Dorothy L.Sayers, what are the 'Nine Tailors'? A: CHURCH BELLS
Q: In which childrens' TV programme, narrated by Derek Jacobi, would you see Iggle-Piggle & Upsy-Daisy? A: IN THE NIGHT GARDEN
Q: In art, Lisa Gherardini became better known as whom? A: MONA LISA
Q: In Australia, what is referred to as a 'brumby'? A: WILD HORSE
Q: On what Saint's day was the Battle of Agincourt fought in 1415? A: St.CRISPIN
Q: What is name of the piece of leather on which a barber sharpens a cut-throat razor? A: STROP
Q: What is the name of the theme park in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee? A: DOLLYWOOD
Q: Who patented the first revolver in 1836? A: Samuel COLT
Q: Which of the Four Gospels is thought to be based on eyewitness information? A: St. MARK
Q: In which Shakespeare play is the heroine called Rosalind? A: AS YOU LIKE IT
Q: What is another name for the bird usually called the shrike? A: BUTCHER BIRD
Q: Which county won crickets county championship 6 times in the 1960's? A: YORKSHIRE
Q: Who is reputed to have said, 'Today, I have gazed on the face of Agamemnon'?; after discoveries at Mycenae? A: Heinrich SCHLIEMANN
Q: In 1889, who painted the picture 'Starry Night'? A: Vincent VAN GOGH
Q: Who invented the cotton gin in 1783? A: ELI WHITNEY
Q: In which war did the Battle of Ramillies take place? A: WAR of the SPANISH SUCCESSION
Q: On which island is the children's' TV programme Balamory set? A: MULL
Q: What is the capital of the Middle Eastern emirate, Qatar? A: DOHA
Q: A monument begun in 1948, in the Black Hills of South Dakota , when finished, will be of which American Indian Lakota chief? A: CRAZY HORSE
Q: The film 'Infamous' is about which author? A: Truman Capote
Q: What is the second brightest star in the constellation Orion? A: BETELGEUSE
Q: Who is the Muse of love poetry? A: ERATO
Q: What was the name of William Wordsworth's sister, who was also a poet and pianist? A: Dorothy
Q: Which actor, famous for his portrayal of gangsters, was born Emmanuel Goldenberg in Romania in 1893? A: Edward G Robinson
Q: Which American football team are known as the Vikings? A: Minnesota
Q: Mount Mitchell is the highest peak of which American mountain range? A: Appalachian Mountains
Q: Which part of the body is affected by Meniere's Disease? A: Ear
Q: Which film of 1958 starred Ingrid Bergman as missionary Gladys Aylward? A: Inn of the Sixth Happiness
Q: Who succeeded John Quincy Adams as president of the USA in 1829? A: Andrew Jackson
Q: Which stretch of water separates Tasmania from mainland Australia? A: Bass Strait
Q: What nationality is Liverpool FC footballer Sami Hyypia? A: Finnish
Q: Who was Hitler's minister of propaganda? A: Josef Goebbels
Q: What was the Christian name of Judge Jeffreys (1645-1689)? A: George
Q: Who composed the Christmas Oratorio in 1734? A: J S Bach
Q: Which dramatist and poet was murdered by Ingram Frazer in Deptford in 1593? A: Christopher Marlowe
Q: In what year did the Aberfan disaster take place? A: 1966
Q: Which US female singer who died in 2008 had hits with 'Shrimp Boats' and 'You Belong To Me'? A: Jo Stafford
Q: Which UK female singer who died in 2008 had hits with 'How much is that doggie in the window' and 'Jimmy Unknown'? A: Lita Roza
Q: In what year did The Great Train Robbery take place? A: 1963
Q: What was Elvis Presley's first No. 1 record in the UK? A: All Shook Up
Q: Which famous Hollywood actor was born Roy Harold Scherer in Illinois in 1925? A: Rock Hudson
Q: Which American football team are known as the Steelers? A: Pittsburgh
Q: What part of the body is affected by Brights disease? A: Kidneys
Q: Which 1972 film starred Diana Ross as Billie Holiday? A: Lady Sings The Blues
Q: Name the writer of The History Boys, winner of the 2006 Tony award for best play? A: Alan Bennett
Q: Which stretch of water separates the North and South islands in New Zealand? A: Cook Strait
Q: Who succeeded Andrew Johnson as US President in 1869? A: Ulysses S Grant
Q: 'It's Oh So Quiet' and Venus as a Boy' were hit singles for which female artist? A: Bjork
Q: In Roman mythology who was the wife of Jupiter? A: Juno
Q: Who composed the Hungarian Dances in 1869? A: Brahms
Q: What was the Christian name of Lord Byron? A: George
Q: What name was given to the type of art particularly associated with Jackson Pollock? A: (Abstract) Expressionism
Q: In the Addams Family what type of pet was Pugsley's Aristotle? A: Octopus
Q: From whom did Henry Cooper first win the British heavyweight title in 1959? A: Brian London
Q: Which former US world heavyweight champion knocked out Henry Cooper in four rounds in 1966? A: Floyd Patterson
Q: Which US oceanographer led the teams which discovered the wrecks of the Titanic in 1985 and the Bismarck in 1989? A: Robert Ballard
Q: Which football team play their home games at the Don Valley Stadium? A: Rotherham United
Q: Which British comedian was born in Hall Green, Birmingham in 1924 and died in Sydney in 1968? A: Tony Hancock
Q: What was the name of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's dog to whom she famously addressed a poem? A: Flush
Q: Name the year. Churchill makes his famous 'Iron Curtain' speech in Fulton Missouri, Henry Fonda stars as Wyatt Earp in 'My Darling Clementine', and murderer Neville Heath is hanged at Pentonville Prison. A: 1946
Q: Which side finished bottom of the 1st division of the County Cricket Championship in 2008? A: SURREY
Q: When the Marie Celeste left New York on her ill-fated voyage, which Italian port was her destination? A: GENOA
Q: What nationality was Trygve Lie, the first Secretary General of the United Nations? A: NORWEGIAN
Q: On the human body, as what is a furuncle more commonly known? A: A BOIL
Q: "Which poet wrote the line, ""If winter comes, can spring be far behind""?" A: PERCY SHELLEY
Q: Which American state has Boise as its capital, and is known as the Gem State or Potato State? A: IDAHO
Q: The independent girls' school, Roedean, is situated near which south coast town? A: BRIGHTON
Q: Which Midlands club did Sam Allardyce manage, before he took up the position of manager at Bolton Wanderers in 1999? A: NOTTS COUNTY
Q: "Which Canadian born folk singer wrote and recorded the hit song, ""Big Yellow Taxi""?" A: JONI MITCHELL
Q: Donald Neilson, convicted of four murders in 1975, was known by which nickname? A: THE BLACK PANTHER
Q: "The Wurzels No 1 hit record, ""Combine Harvester"", was a parody on which song, a No 1 hit for the singer Melanie in 1971?" A: BRAND NEW KEY
Q: Which English football club won the European Cup in 1982. beating Bayern Munich, 1-0 in Rotterdam? A: ASTON VILLA
Q: Which comedian actor played the part of Ron Glum in the radio programme 'Take It From Here'? A: DICK BENTLEY
Q: Which famous public school is situated n the village of Street in Somerset? A: MILLFIELD
Q: According to Catholic legend which saint mopped the brow of Jesus on his way to Calgary? A: VERONICA
Q: Which south coast resort has its own symphony orchestra, founded in 1893 and now based in Poole Arts Centre? A: BOURNEMOUTH
Q: Vancouver Island is a part of which Canadian Province? A: BRITISH COLUMBIA
Q: Which artist, a member of the modern school of art, and noted for his paintings of violinists, was born in Russia in 1887, and died in Paris aged 97? A: MARC CHAGALL
Q: Which British composer, together with the tenor Peter Pears, founded the annual music festival at Aldeburgh? A: BENJAMIN BRITTEN
Q: "Created in the 1990's, as a satire of James Bond, what was the name of the character in a number of films, who was originally termed, ""The International Man of Mystery""?" A: AUSTIN POWERS
Q: Which TV producer and scriptwriter, created the TV series, 'Grange Hill'? A: PHIL REDMOND
Q: "Who, in 1678, along with Israel Tonge, fabricated the ""Popish Plot"", a fictitious conspiracy to murder Charles II?" A: TITUS OATES
Q: The salts of which metal are used in the manufacture of calamine lotion? A: ZINC
Q: Who was the mother of the Roman emperor, Nero, who was murdered on nis orders in A.D. 59? A: AGRIPPINA
Q: What nationality is the international Rugby Union referee, Alain Rolland? A: IRISH
Q: Which English Rugby Union side play their home matches at Franklin Gardens? A: NORTHAMPTON
Q: "One Australian term for a fool is the word ""galah"". What type of bird is a galah?" A: A COCKATOO
Q: Who was the third wife of the Roman emperor Claudius, noted for her cruelty and debauchery? A: (VALERIA) MESSALINA
Q: The salts of which poisonous acid are found in rhubarb leaves? A: OXALIC ACID
Q: Because of the outrage caused by the Popish Plot, which Archbishop of Armagh, was executed at Tyburn in 1681, the last Roman Catholic martyr to die in England? In 1975, he was canonised, and became the first new Irish saint for almost 700 years. A: ST OLIVER PLUNKE'TT
Q: "Which local born actor/writer won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay in 1981, for his work on the film, ""Chariots of Fire""?" A: COLIN WELLAND
Q: "Creator, Nat Hiken gave which original title to the ""Phil Silvers Show"", it being changed after a couple of months?" A: YOU'LL NEVER GET RICH
Q: "Which style of art, which flourished briefly in the first part of the 20th century, took its name from the French for, ""Wild Beasts""?" A: FAUVISM
Q: "In the novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", by Charles Dickens, who brought an action against Mr Pickwick, for breach of promise to marry?" A: MRS BARDELL
Q: """Jane, the diary of a bright young thing"", was a cartoon strip that first appeared in Britain in 1932, in which daily newspaper?" A: DAILY MIRROR
Q: Duncan Renaldo played which cowboy character in a famous US TV series? A: Cisco Kid
Q: On which river is the 'Iron Gate'? A: Danube
Q: Which daily newspaper was a colour tabloid that was launched in March 1986 and ceased publication in November 1995? A: Today
Q: In 1936, Lionel Van Praag won the first world championship in which sport? A: Speedway
Q: In which TV series did the brothers Hoss, Adam and Little Joe appear? A: Bonanza
Q: Whose comic characters include 'Kevin Patterson', 'Julio Geordio' and 'Tim Nice-But-Dim'? A: Harry Enfield
Q: In which Texas city is the Alamo? A: San Antonio
Q: Benjamin Disraeli became the first Earl of . . . where? A: Beaconsfield
Q: In which town does the traditional Furry Dance take place on May 8th each year? A: Helston, Cornwall
Q: Who created the character 'Rip Van Winkle'? A: Washington Irving
Q: In which book does the character Melanie Wilkes appear? A: Gone With The Wind
Q: Who partnered Aretha Franklin on the 1987 no.1 hit 'I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me)'? A: George Michael
Q: What was the name of the state that seceded from Nigeria in 1967 and lasted until 1970? A: Biafra
Q: Who wrote the opera 'Lakme'? A: Delibes
Q: Jack and Kit Wright, Thomas and Robert Wintour, Ambrose Rookwood and Sir Everard Digby amongst others are all associated with which historical event? A: Gunpowder Plot
Q: Which Sunday newspaper was launched in September 1989 as a 'quality' broadsheet and ceased publication (as a tabloid) in November 1990? A: Correspondent
Q: The PFA footballer and young footballer of the year 1982 were Kevin Keegan and Steve Moran; they were both playing for which club at the time? A: Southampton
Q: Who created the character 'Mary Poppins'? A: Pamela L Travers
Q: On which track did the first motor racing Grand Prix take place in 1907? A: Le Mans
Q: What name is given to the stellar explosion caused when nuclear fusion within a massive star ceases and it suffers gravitational collapse? A: (Super)Nova
Q: Whose comic characters include 'Gareth Cheeseman', 'Tony Ferrino' and 'Tommy Saxondale'? A: Steve Coogan
Q: Helen of Troy was originally the Queen of which Greek state? A: Sparta
Q: David Leadbetter is a famous coach, in which sport? A: Golf
Q: Who wrote the operas 'A Life for the Tsar' and 'Russian and Ludmilla'? A: Glinka
Q: Which play features the character Blanche Dubois? A: A Streetcar Named Desire
Q: James Dearden wrote which book, made into a famous film directed by Adrian Lyne, in 1987? A: Fatal Attraction
Q: Who partnered Peter Gabriel on the 1986 hit 'Don't Give Up'? A: Kate Bush
Q: Which Russian port was the scene of the Potemkin Mutiny in 1905? A: Odessa
Q: Novelist John Buchan's title was first Baron . . . what? A: Tweedsmuir
Q: Who was known as 'the father of the Common Market'? A: Jean Monnet
Q: Nick Bollettieri is a famous coach in which sport? A: Tennis
Q: Which gangster was killed in a police ambush outside the Biograph Theatre, Chicago on July 22nd 1934? A: John Dillinger
Q: What was the name of the province, led by Moise Tshombe, that seceded from the Congo Republic in 1960? A: Katanga
Q: The fruit carambola is more commonly known by what name? A: Star fruit
Q: What name is given to visible clouds of dust and gas in space? A: Nebulae
Q: Which gangster was killed, along with his partner, in a police ambush in Bienville Parish, Louisiana on May 23rd 1934? A: Clyde Barrow
Q: Charles Webb wrote which book, made into a famous film directed by Mike Nichols, in 1967? A: The Graduate
Q: Who was the first footballer to represent England at schoolboy, youth, amateur, under 23 and full international levels, he went on to have a distinguished managerial career? A: Terry Venables
Q: In which city was Archduke Ferdinand of Austria assassinated in 1914? A: Sarajevo
Q: Which British actor and singer was a member of the Monkees pop group? A: Davy Jones
Q: Which American car manufacturer is named after the founder of Detroit? A: Cadillac
Q: In an Indian restaurant, what is 'kulfi'? A: Ice cream
Q: Which country changed its name to Botswana on gaining independence in 1966? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Which Australian car manufacturer is a division of the worldwide General Motors? A: Holden
Q: Which Liverpool company began to produce Dinky Toys in 1931 to accompany their Hornby train sets? A: Meccano
Q: A major rival to Hornby train sets were those produced by the Marklin company, from which country did Marklin trains come? A: Germany
Q: Which 1960s TV programme was based on a book by Grace Metalious? A: Peyton Place
Q: In the game Monopoly, which property completes the set with Trafalgar Square and the Strand? A: Fleet Street
Q: Graves Disease is caused by a malfunction of which gland in the human body? A: Thyroid
Q: Graham Nash of the pop group Crosby, Stills & Nash was a former member of which British group? A: The Hollies
Q: Since November 2006 the voice of Sara Mendes da Costa can be heard supplying which service? A: Speaking clock
Q: The Hungarian stew, goulash is flavoured with which pepper? A: Paprika
Q: By what name was the city of Jakarta known until 1942? A: Batavia
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Dogberry appear? A: Much Ado About Nothing
Q: Which girl won Britain's first ever gymnastic gold medal in 2006, for her performance on the asymmetric (or uneven) bars at the World Championships? A: Beth Tweddle
Q: Carol Hersee was seen on TV for over 70,000 hours, for what purpose was her picture used? A: Test card
Q: The British and Commonwealth beaches on D-Day were code-named Juno, Gold and what other name? A: Sword
Q: Whose last film was 'Guess Who's Coming to Dinner' in 1967? A: Spencer Tracy
Q: Which bandleader had 'Here's to the Next Time' as his signature tune? A: Henry Hall
Q: What name would be given to a collector of postcards? A: Deltiologist
Q: Asperger's Syndrome is a milder version of which disorder? A: Autism
Q: In which constellation is the star Deneb? A: Cygnus
Q: Which London landmark contains books and artefacts brought from Alexandria? A: Cleopatra's Needle
Q: Which series of children's books (and TV programme) is set on the island of Sodor? A: Thomas the Tank Engine
Q: What name is given to a song or poem of lament, especially for the dead? A: Elegy
Q: What is the name of the stiff, full white skirt worn by men in some parts of Greece and Albania? A: Fustanella
Q: Whose first film was 'Intermezzo', starring with Leslie Howard, in 1939? A: Ingrid Bergman
Q: The third largest cities in Spain and Venezuela share which name? A: Valencia
Q: In computing, what is the common term used to mean a person's internet diary or journal? A: Blog
Q: In which constellation is the star Spica? A: Virgo
Q: Henry 8th became King because of the death of his elder brother, what was his name? A: Arthur
Q: Name the mediaeval siege weapon used for hurling missiles? A: Mangonel or Trebuchet
Q: Name the Californian Congresswoman, who in January 2007 became the first female Speaker of the US House of Representatives? A: Nancy Pelosi
Q: In which game are there moves called 'ruy lopez' and 'en passant'? A: Chess
Q: Which birds belong to the order 'Strigiformes'? A: Owls
Q: Which Scottish town was granted city status as part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of 2002? A: Stirling
Q: "Which group had a 1978 UK No. 1 hit with ""Three Times a Lady""?" A: The Commodores
Q: Which British car manufacturer produced the Gazelle, Vogue and Chamois models? A: Singer
Q: "In TV's ""Heartbeat"" Geoffrey Hughes plays which character?" A: Vernon Scripps
Q: In Italian cuisine what type of foodstuff is cassata? A: Ice cream
Q: Which official is responsible for security in the House of Commons? A: Sergeant-at-Arms
Q: Which Welsh town was granted city status as part of the Golden Jubilee celebrations of 2002? A: Newport
Q: "Which group had a 1978 UK No. 1 hit with ""Dreadlock Holiday""?" A: 10cc
Q: "In TV's ""Last of the Summer Wine"" Frank Thornton plays which character?" A: Truly
Q: In Italian cuisine what type of foodstuff are pomodori? A: Tomatoes
Q: Which British car manufacturer produced the Regal, Rebel, and Kitten? A: Reliant
Q: Lord Wakeham resigned from which public body in January 2003? A: Press Complaints Commission
Q: What nationality is tennis player Gustavo Kuerten? A: Brazilian
Q: Which of the towns in North Yorkshire has the largest population? A: Harrogate
Q: "Which pop musician wrote the music for the 1984 film ""The Killing Fields""?" A: Mike Oldfield
Q: The butcher bird is an alternative name for which bird of prey? A: The Shrike
Q: Which Cheshire town has the motto 'Sal est Vita' (salt is life) on its coat of arms? A: Northwich
Q: The dabchick is an alternative name for which diving bird? A: Little Grebe
Q: "Which pop musician wrote the music for the 1983 film ""Local Hero""?" A: Mark Knopfler
Q: In a mosque, the mirhab indicates what? A: Direction of Mecca '
Q: In which town is the University of Surrey? A: Guildford
Q: Where is the National Museum of Photography, Film and Television? A: Bradford
Q: What is the Scottish name for a semicircular hollow on a hillside, formedby a glacier? A: Corrie
Q: What are 'Old Speckled Hen', 'Black Douglas' and 'Zebedee'? A: Ales
Q: "Which of the UK armed forces has the motto ""Per Mare Per Terram""?" A: Royal Marines
Q: What type of pregnancy is developed outside of the womb? A: Ectopic
Q: Which Puccini opera is set in the court of the Chinese emperor? A: Turandot
Q: "Who was in the films ""Zelig"", ""Stardust Memories"", and ""Broadway Danny Rose""?" A: Woody Allen
Q: Which comedian's real name is Jim Moir? A: Vic Reeves
Q: Which Coronation Street character has the middle name Sibelius? A: Ashley 'Sibelius' Peacock
Q: Melissa Joan Hart plays which TV character (the same as the Roman name for the River Severn)? A: Sabrina
Q: "Which of the UK armed forces has the motto ""Utrinque Paratus""?" A: Parachute Regiment
Q: In which town is the University of Warwick? A: Coventry
Q: In which Metropolitan borough are Middleton, Heywood, Littleborough, Milnrow and Wardle? A: Rochdale
Q: In which Derbyshire town is the famous Tramway Museum? A: Crich
Q: Which Verdi opera opens with a banquet in the palace of the Duke of Mantua? A: Rigoletto
Q: "Who starred in the films ""Perfect World"", ""No Way Out"", and ""Tin Cup""?" A: Kevin Costner
Q: Which company makes 'Budweiser' beer? A: Anheuser-Busch
Q: Which Government department is responsible for the Meteorological Office? A: Ministry of Defence
Q: Which North Yorkshire seaside resort is the starting point for the Cleveland Way long-distance walk? A: Filey
Q: As at November 2006, who is the coach of St Helens Rugby League team? A: Daniel Anderson
Q: Pop star Madonna adopted a child from which country in October 2006? A: Malawi
Q: How many Cinque Ports are there on the south coast of England? A: Seven
Q: The now defunct food hamper firm Farepak was based in which city? A: Swindon
Q: What colour is the ribbon on the Victoria Cross? A: Crimson
Q: In which year did Desmond Tutu win the Nobel Peace Prize; WPC Yvonne Fletcher shot at Libyan Embassy; Winter Olympics open in Sarajevo? A: 1984
Q: The city of Cork, Ireland, lies on which river? A: River Lee
Q: What is the capital of the Republic of Sudan? A: Khartoum
Q: What colour in the intense pigment in cadmium sulphide? A: Yellow
Q: In which decade was Beatrix Potter born; Atlantic Cable completed; Seward purchases Alaska from Russia? A: 1860's
Q: Herdwick and Swaledale are breeds of which animal? A: Sheep
Q: "Which group had a 1982 No. 1 hit with ""Do You Really Want To Hurt Me""?" A: Culture Club
Q: Who presents the 'graveyard shift', midnight to 3 pm, on BBC Radio 2? A: Janice Long
Q: Cowboy Copas and Hawkshaw Hawkins died with which other country music star in a 1963 plane crash? A: Patsy Cline
Q: Scurvy is a disease resulting from deficiency of which vitamin? A: Vitamin C
Q: Which is the oldest of the English classic horse races? A: St. Leger
Q: St Helens RLFC won all three trophies in Super League 2006. Which is the only other club ever to do this? A: Bradford Bulls
Q: Ginger Baker, Jack Bruce, and who else formed the pop group 'Cream'? A: Eric Clapton
Q: What is the name of Dangermouse's amphibious nemesis? A: Baron Greenback
Q: What is the celestial visible light spectrum better known as? A: A rainbow
Q: Who, in the OT of the Bible, was the sister of Moses and Aaron? A: Miriam
Q: The group 'Abba' was formed in which European capital city in 1971? A: Stockholm
Q: What is the chief port of Iraq? A: Basra
Q: Deva is the Roman name for which English city? A: Chester
Q: What type of bird is a ptarmigan? A: Grouse
Q: Which song opened the 1985 Live Aid concert? A: Rocking All Over the World
Q: "Who wrote the novel The Virgin and the Gypsy""?" A: D. H. Lawrence
Q: Which gem is associated with a 60th wedding anniversary? A: Diamond
Q: The adjective Cestrian is associated with which English city? A: Chester
Q: John Reid holds which Government post as at October 2006? A: Home Secretary
Q: Who partnered George Michael in the group 'Wham'? A: Andrew Ridgeley
Q: The English classic horse race The Derby in run at which race course? A: Epsom
Q: "Who wrote the tragedy-opera ""The Masked Ball"" (""Ballo in Maschera"")?" A: Giuseppe Verdi
Q: In which British city is the National Railway Museum? A: York
Q: Bow Street is what colour on a Monopoly board? A: Orange
Q: Which English sculptor is famous for large abstract figures, and reclining figures, such as the one outside Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge? A: HENRY MOORE
Q: In the USA, which New England State has no Atlantic coastline? A: VERMONT
Q: What type of fruit is an early Red Windsor? A: AN APPLE
Q: """O Soave Fanciulla"" and ""Si, Mi Chiamo Mimi"" are arias from which Puccini opera?" A: LA BOHEME
Q: A Koala Bear is not a bear. To which family of animals does it belong? A: MARSUPIALS
Q: Which British woman, in 2007, became he oldest person ever to be awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature? A: DORIS LESSING
Q: The Hill of Tara, where once Irish kings were crowned, is in which Irish county? A: MEATH
Q: After their poor showing in the 2007 Rugby Union world cup, which New Zealand coach was made to re-apply for his job, a task which he successfully achieved? A: GRAHAM HENRY
Q: Gertrude was the mother of which eponymous Shakespearian character? A: HAMLET
Q: In architecture, what is a campanile? A: A BELL TOWER
Q: Which Persian emperor was defeated by the Greeks at the naval Battle of Salamis in 480 B.C.? A: XERXES
Q: Which 1977 romantic comedy film, directed by Woody Allen, had Diane Keaton in the title role? A: ANNIE HALL
Q: In the TV cartoon series, Homer Simpson shares his middle name with which colourful bird? A: JAY
Q: In the Simpson's TV cartoon series, what was Marge Simpson's maiden name? A: BOUVIER
Q: Which liquid, also known as milk plasma, remains after milk has been curdled and strained? A: WHEY
Q: For her role as Lindy Chamberlain, in which 1988 film, was Meryl Streep nominated for the Oscar for best actress? A: A CRY IN THE DARK
Q: At which narrow pass did Leonidas and 300 Spartans fight to the death, in order to slow down the Persian army? A: THERMOPYLAE
Q: In which John Steinbeck novel does a man named Adam, have two sons, Cal and Aaron? A: EAST OF EDEN
Q: The Cliffs of Moher, Ireland's most visited tourist attraction, stand on the coast of which Irish county? A: CLARE
Q: Which man, born in Cornwall in 1911, was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1983? A: WILLIAM GOLDING
Q: The Horned Toad is not a toad. To which family of creatures does it belong? A: LIZARDS.
Q: "Having been the M.P. for this constituency since 1970, Labour M.P. Dennis Skinner has acquired the nickname, ""The Beast of ---- where?" A: BOLSOVER
Q: """Vissi d'Arte, Vissi d'Amore"", ""E Lucevan le Stelle"" and ""Recondita Armonia"" are all arias from which Puccini opera?" A: TOSCA
Q: Which vegetable has types named Greyhound and January King? A: CABBAGE
Q: Who is the fictional pilot created by W. E. Johns? A: BIGGLES
Q: "Who sculpted Oscar Wilde's tomb, and the figures ""Day and Night"" on the Headquarters of London Transport?" A: JACOB EPSTEIN
Q: Which city in Southern France, contains a Roman amphitheatre? Nearby stands the famous Pont du Gard, a Roman built aqueduct? A: NIMES
Q: "Which King of England allegedly ordered the murder of the ""Princes in the Tower"", although some historians refute this claim?" A: RICHARD III
Q: Who was the first athlete to win successive Olympic Gold Medals in the 1500m, since before the First World War, doing so in 1980 and 1984? A: SEBASTIAN COE
Q: In which 18th century ballad opera do the characters MacHeath, Jenny Diver and Sukey Tawdrey appear? A: THE BEGGARS OPERA
Q: "Which pop groups first singles release, in 1979, was entitled, ""Sultans of Swing""?" A: DIRE STRAITS
Q: "Which Lawn Tennis player of the 1970's later had a brief acting career, appearing in the 1983 James Bond film, ""Octopussy""?" A: VIJAY AMRITRAJ
Q: What type of foodstuff is a jalapeno? A: A PEPPER
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""'Allo, 'Allo"", what was the name of Rene Artois' wife, played by Carmen Silvera?" A: MADAME EDITH
Q: """Hey There"" and ""Hernando's Hideaway"" are songs from which stage & film musical?" A: THE PAJAMA GAME
Q: In which modern day African country is the town of Ujiji, where Livingstone & Stanley famously met in 1871? A: TANZANIA
Q: What is the proper name of the flowering plant commonly known as the Red Hot Poker? A: KNIPHOFIA
Q: What was the first name of the famous 18th century British sailor and explorer, Captain Cook? A: JAMES
Q: What nationality was the writer Oliver Goldsmith? A: IRISH
Q: What nationality was the composer Edvard Grieg? A: NORWEGIAN
Q: Which garden plant, with small, white bell shaped flowers, has the Latin name Convallaria Majalis? A: LILY OF THE VALLEY
Q: Which Cypriot born, Greek general led the guerrilla organisation, EOKA, in Cyprus, during the 1950's? A: GEORGE GRIVAS
Q: In India, what are the Eastern and Western Ghats? A: MOUNTAIN RANGES
Q: """Music of the Night"" and ""All I Ask of You"" are songs from which stage musical?" A: THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""'Til Death Us Do Part"", what was the name of Alf Garnett's daughter, played by Una Stubbs?" A: RITA
Q: What is the more common name of the fruit of the shrub, vaccinum myrtillus, sometimes known as the whortleberry? A: THE BILBERRY
Q: Which gas, which constitutes a danger in mines, is also known as Firedamp or Marsh Gas? A: METHANE
Q: "Which famous sportsman, whose real Christian names were George Herman, was nicknamed, ""The Sultan of Swat""?" A: BABE RUTH
Q: "Who composed the music for ""The Threepenny Opera"", the 1928 adaptation of ""The Beggar's Opera""?" A: KURT WEILL
Q: Which King of England was the father of both The Black Prince and John of Gaunt? A: EDWARD III
Q: Which German City, close to the border with Luxembourg was the birthplace of Karl Marx, and contains the Porta Nigra, a well-preserved Roman city gate? A: TRIER
Q: Which Italian defender was voted the 2006 FIFA World Footballer of the Year? A: Fabio Cannavaro
Q: "The ""Cirque de Soleil"" show, based on the Beatles music, is called what?" A: Love
Q: "In which West Yorkshire town is TV's ""Last of the Summer Wine"" set?" A: Holmfirth
Q: Reuben and Rose Mattus established which American ice cream in 1961? A: Haagen-Dazs
Q: To which MP did Michael Portillo lose his Enfield Southgate seat in 1997? A: Stephen Twigg
Q: Which African football nation reached the last 16 in the 2006 World Cup? A: Ghana
Q: Elizabeth Ann Bloomer was the maiden name of which US First Lady? A: Betty Ford
Q: Goathland, near Whitby, is the setting for which TV show? A: Heartbeat
Q: "The ""Cirque de Soleil"" originated in which city of the North Americas?" A: Montreal
Q: In which New England State are the HQ of Ben and Jerry's ice cream; also well known for maple syrup and cheese and dairy products? A: Vermont
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1997 film ""The Saint""?" A: Val Kilmer
Q: "Who wrote the poem ""The Walrus and the Carpenter""?" A: Lewis Carroll
Q: The late Jean Muir founded what type of store in London in 1966? A: Fashion house
Q: Chennai, formerly Madras, is the capital of which Indian state? A: Tamil Nadu
Q: Which designer (born 1952) was known as the 'enfant terrible of French fashion'? A: Jean-Paul Gaultier
Q: Who owns the London restaurants Petrus, Boxwood Cafe, Murano, etc? A: Gordon Ramsay
Q: "Which Madrid born actress won the 2006 European Film Award, and the 2007 Goya Best Lead Actress Award for the film ""Volver""?" A: Penelope Cruz
Q: "Who wrote the play, later a film, ""The History Boys""?" A: Alan Bennett
Q: What colour is the Wirral Line on the Merseyrail network map? A: Green
Q: Who is the Chief Executive Officer of Ryanair? A: Michael O'Leary
Q: What is the name of the blue line on the Merseyrail map? A: Northern Line
Q: Who defeated Phil Taylor to win the 2007 PDC world darts championship? A: Raymond van Barneveld
Q: Damon Albarn, Paul Simonon, Simon Tong, and Tony Allen released which successful album in January 2007? A: The Good, The Bad and The Queen
Q: Who is the principal conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic? A: Sir Simon Rattle
Q: Which singer/band member married Gwyneth Paltrow in 2003? A: Chris Martin
Q: Who designed the reconstruction of the Berlin Reichstag Dome in 1992? A: Norman Foster
Q: Bramley, Roundhay, Farsley, etc., are in which English city? A: Leeds
Q: The 2010 FIFA World Cup will be staged where? A: South Africa
Q: HDL and LDL lipoproteins are commonly classified as what? A: Cholesterol
Q: Which midtown Manhattan railway station is the busiest in America? A: Penn(sylvania) Station
Q: A Lusophone is a person who speaks what language? A: Portuguese
Q: The world's most crossed international land border connects Tijuana to which major Californian city? A: San Diego
Q: "The films ""Fever Pitch"" (2005 version), ""Good Will Hunting"", ""The Departed"" are all set in which New England city?" A: Boston
Q: "Which stage musical features the songs ""Easy Terms"", and ""Tell Me It's Not True""?" A: Blood Brothers
Q: What is the principal official language of Andorra? A: Catalan
Q: The sixth and first strings of a guitar are tuned to which note? A: E
Q: In which year did King John grant Liverpool its charter? A: 1207
Q: In which was the World Expo held in Brisbane, Queensland; Wimbledon defeat Liverpool in the FA Cup; Nelson Mandela celebrated his 70th? A: 1988
Q: Kate Moss currently advertises which brand of cosmetics? A: Rimmel
Q: What name does B. B. King always give to his guitars? A: Lucille
Q: Which country in the Americas is named after a line on the map? A: Ecuador
Q: What is the name of the new Cunard liner launched by the Duchess of Cornwall in December 2007? A: Queen Victoria
Q: "Which New Zealand born scientist won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1908 for ""his investigations into the disintegration of the elements, and the chemistry of radioactive substances""?" A: Ernest Rutherford
Q: The site of the Battle of Bannockburn is close to which Scottish town or city? A: Stirling
Q: Glynis Barber and her husband Michael Brandon starred together in which TV detective series? A: Dempsey and Makepeace
Q: Which maths instrument is used to draw a circle? A: (A Pair of ) Compass(es)
Q: Who plays Dr House in the US TV medical series 'House'? A: Hugh Laurie
Q: Lundy Island is in which body of water? A: Bristol Channel
Q: Scone, where the ancient Kings of Scotland were crowned, is close to which town or city? A: Perth
Q: Which Emperor of the Ottoman Empire was known as 'The Magnificent' or 'The Law Giver'? A: Suleiman
Q: Which Egyptian was the sixth Secretary General of the UN from 1992 to 1996? A: Boutros Boutros-Ghali
Q: With which musical instrument is Charlie Parker most closely associated? A: Saxophone
Q: What is the name of the city that was built to house workers on the Hoover Dam? A: Boulder City
Q: In which palace is the throne of Ottoman Emperor Selim 1st? A: Topkapi
Q: Brownsea Island is in which body of water? A: Poole Harbour
Q: Randolph Lerner is the chairman of which Premiership football club? A: Aston Villa
Q: "Which Dane won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922 for ""his services in the investigation of the structure of atoms and of the radiation emanating from them""?" A: Niels Bohr
Q: Nick Clegg became the new leader of the Lib Dems after an election in December 2007, who did he beat? A: Chris Huhne
Q: What, in the natural world, is 'hyssop'? A: A herb
Q: Which now famous film actor came to prominence playing Dr Doug Ross in the TV series ER? A: George Clooney
Q: In the French Revolutionary calendar, what kind of weather is suggested by the name of the month Nivose? A: Snow
Q: Who was Chief of State of Vichy France from 1940 to 1944, he was sentenced to death for collaboration but the sentence was commuted to life imprisonment? A: Philippe Pétain
Q: What is the capital of the central Italian region of Umbria? A: Perugia
Q: In Greek myth, which nymph detained Odysseus on her island for seven years? A: Calypso
Q: With which musical instrument is Charlie Mingus most closely associated? A: Double Bass
Q: Acetylsalicylic acid is a commonly taken drug, what is its usual name? A: Aspirin
Q: Which King of England (after Harold 2nd) was killed by an arrow? A: William II
Q: In which country was the 'Great Trek' of 1836/37? A: South Africa
Q: Which 4 time Prime Minister of France (twice in the Vichy government) was executed by firing squad in 1945? A: Pierre Laval
Q: Which sport is played by the 'Cornish Pirates'? A: Rugby Union
Q: Prior to the election of Nick Clegg as leader of the Lib Dems, who had stood in as acting leader? A: Vince Cable
Q: Which cartoon characters were created 50 years ago by the Belgian Peyo? A: Smurfs
Q: Ascorbic acid is a vital part of the diet, how is it commonly known? A: Vitamin C
Q: In Greek myth, who was the wife of Odysseus who remained faithful during his long absence? A: Penelope
Q: Which English King was married to Catherine of Valois? A: Henry 5th
Q: Who is the Roman equivalent to the Greek God, Dionysus? A: BACCHUS
Q: Of which Canadian Province is Toronto the capital city? A: ONTARIO
Q: "Who won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Anita in the 1961 film, ""West Side Story""?" A: RITA MORENO
Q: William Frawley and Vivian Vance played Fred and Ethel Mertz in which popular 1950's American TV comedy show? A: I LOVE LUCY
Q: Which tennis player beat Boris Becker in the all German men singles final at Wimbledon in 1991? A: MICHAEL STICH
Q: "The title of Frederick Forsyth's novel, ""The Dogs of War"" is taken from a line in which Shakespeare play?" A: JULIUS CAESAR
Q: In which US State is Jamestown, site of the first settlement in 1609? A: VIRGINIA
Q: "Name of the character, played by Clint Eastwood, in the 1960's TV series, ""Rawhide""?" A: ROWDY YATES
Q: """Camelot"" in 1960 was the last Broadway musical of which famous duo?" A: LERNER and LOEWE
Q: "The wine ""Lachryma Christi"" is made from grapes grown on the slopes of which mountain?" A: VESUVIUS
Q: Which King of England, from 1399-1413, was born at Bolingbroke Castle in Lincoln shire in 1366? A: HENRY IV
Q: For which county did Harold Larwood play cricket from 1924-38? A: NOTTINGHAMSHIRE
Q: What was the name of the Nottinghamshire fast bowler, who, together with Harold Larwood, took part in the infamous Bodyline tour in Australia, in 1932-33? A: BILL VOCE
Q: Born in Rouen in France in 1442, who was King of England from 1461 to 1483? A: EDWARD IV
Q: "Who played the title role in the 1959 film, ""Our Man in Havana""?" A: ALEC GUINNESS
Q: The green coloured melon liqueur, Midori, was originally produced in which country? A: JAPAN
Q: "Who played the part of Major Seth Adams in the 1950's TV series, ""Wagon Train""?" A: WARD BOND
Q: Jamestown is the major seaport and capital of which island colony? A: ST HELENA
Q: Sir Joseph Porter and Ralph Rackstraw are characters in which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: H.M.S. PINAFORE
Q: "The character of Archie Bunker in the American comedy series, ""All in the Family"", was based on which character from a BBC series?" A: ALF GARNETT
Q: "Who won the Oscar for best actress in 1977, for her title role in the film, ""Annie Hall""?" A: DIANE KEATON.
Q: What is the capital city of the Canadian province of Manitoba? A: WINNIPEG
Q: Who is the Greek equivalent of the Roman God, Cupid? A: EROS
Q: Litmus is a mixture of dyes used as an indicator. It is extracted from which types of plant? A: LICHENS
Q: The Ministry for State Security of Communist East Germany was more commonly known by which abbreviated name? A: STASI
Q: Original Mock Turtle soup is made from the head of which animal? A: CALF
Q: In which area of the world is Queen Maud Land situated? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: Who was the husband of Elizabeth Taylor, killed in an air crash in 1958? A: MIKE TODD
Q: What name is usually given to the larvae of insects, such as the dragonfly or mayfly? A: NYMPHS
Q: Which common, gaseous element has the atomic Number 8, and an Atomic Weight of 16? A: OXYGEN
Q: Allan Quartermain is the hero of which adventure novel, first published in 1895? A: KING SOLOMON'S MINES
Q: Gymnasium instructors often use a machine to determine a person's BMI reading. For what does the letter B stand? A: BODY
Q: The Bloody Assizes under Judge Jeffries occurred during the reign of which English King? A: JAMES II
Q: Alan Breck Stewart is one of the leading characters in which adventure novel, first published in 1886? A: KIDNAPPED
Q: With the Atomic Number 3, which is the first metal in the Periodic Table of elements? A: LITHIUM
Q: Who was the actress wife of Clark Gable, killed in an air crash in 1942? A: CAROLE LOMBARD
Q: What name is given to the underwater plateaus, which lie off the South East coast of Newfoundland, and which form a fishing area of major importance? A: THE GRAND BANKS
Q: "Who wrote the book on which the 1959 film, ""Ben Hur' was based?" A: LEW WALLACE
Q: Which English athlete became the first woman to run a sub five-minute mile in 1954? A: DIANE LEATHER
Q: Who succeeded David Lloyd George as British Prime Minister in 1922? A: ANDREW BONAR LAW
Q: Yosemite National Park lies in which American State? A: CALIFORNIA
Q: Which is the only miracle mentioned in all four gospels? A: FEEDING OF THE FIVE THOUSAND
Q: What name is given to a ring shaped reef, enclosing a lagoon? A: AN ATOLL
Q: Because of its appearance, what common alternative name is given to iron pyrites? A: FOOL'S GOLD
Q: Which was the 50th and last state to become part of the USA? A: Hawaii
Q: What is the common name for the flower Bellis Perennis? A: Daisy
Q: What nationality was the pirate William 'Captain' Kidd who was hanged in 1701? A: Scottish
Q: Where are the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund? A: Washington
Q: In which city are the headquarters of OPEC (Organisation of Petrol Exporting Countries)? A: Vienna
Q: Which pirate commanded the ship the Queen Anne's Revenge? A: Blackbeard
Q: Who was shot by Mehmet Ali Agca in 1981? A: Pope John Paul II
Q: How many bones does the adult human body have? A: 206
Q: Which language does the word Safari originate from? A: Swahili
Q: In Greek myth which was the sacred mountain of Apollo, and home to the muses? A: Parnassus
Q: What does 3G mean in mobile phone advertisements? A: Third Generation
Q: In Greek myth who solved the Riddle of the Sphinx? A: Oedipus
Q: Which European country has the Kuna as its currency? A: Croatia
Q: Which member of the Royal Family also has the titles Earl of Merioneth and Baron Greenwich? A: Duke of Edinburgh
Q: In which city are the headquarters of Greenpeace International? A: Amsterdam
Q: Until 31.12.2005, the tolar was the currency of which European country? A: Slovenia
Q: Who was the brother of Sherlock Holmes? A: Mycroft
Q: What was the maiden name of Wallis Simpson, the Duchess of Windsor? A: Warfield
Q: b In the Flintstones cartoons what is the name of Fred and Wilma's daughter? A: Pebbles
Q: Botswana was until 1966 known as what? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Which fictional family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace, Springfield? A: The Simpsons
Q: What are the Friendly Islands in the Pacific now known as? A: Tonga
Q: Grantley Adams is the airport of which Caribbean island? A: Barbados
Q: What was the constituency of former Prime Minister Tony Blair? A: Sedgefield
Q: Which was the first X-rated film to have won the Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: In athletics which is always the first event in the Decathlon? A: 100 metres
Q: Which is the densest planet in the solar system? A: Earth
Q: Which rock singer's real name is Paul Hewson? A: Bono
Q: Which prison is located at Princetown in Devon? A: Dartmoor
Q: Which musician, 1890-1967, was known as 'The King of Jazz'? A: Paul Whiteman
Q: What does a vulcanologist study? A: Volcanoes
Q: Who was known as the Railway King? A: George Hudson
Q: Which Roman road linked Exeter and Lincoln? A: Fosse Way
Q: What does a deltiologist collect? A: Picture postcards
Q: What is the more common name for a polygraph? A: Lie Detector
Q: What colour is zero on a roulette wheel? A: Green
Q: In which country did Che Guevara die? A: Bolivia
Q: The OSS (Office of Strategic Services) founded in 1942 was a precursor to which security organisation? A: CIA
Q: With what activity do you associate the names Bernard Leach and Clarice Cliff? A: Pottery
Q: What would a French musician be playing if he was using a batterie? A: A drum kit
Q: What is the modern equivalent of the medieval musical instrument the sackbut? A: Trombone
Q: Which British Cathedral has the highest spire? A: Salisbury
Q: In 1968 Gary Sobers was the first cricketer to hit six sixes in an over. Who was the bowler? A: (Malcolm) Nash
Q: Which future PM was the eldest son of Lord Dunglass? A: Alec Douglas Home
Q: Which car manufacturer made a model called GT4O? A: Ford
Q: To which school of art did the painters Derain, Viamink and the young Matisse belong? A: The Fauves
Q: Who was the housekeeper in Daphne du Maurier's 'Rebecca'? A: Mrs Danvers
Q: Apart from the USA, Canada and British possessions, which other country from the Americas actively took part in WW2, declaring war on the Axis countries in 1942? A: Brazil
Q: Which unit of measurement was originally defined as one minute of arc along a meridian of the Earth? A: Nautical Mile
Q: Whose theme tune was 'Take the A Train'? A: Duke Ellington
Q: What industrial process was once conducted in Bold St, Liverpool? A: Rope
Q: What does 'Carpe diem' translate as? A: Seize the Day
Q: Who said 'Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun'? A: Mao-Tse-Tung
Q: b Name one of the 3 'J's for which Dundee is traditionally known? A: Jute, Jam and Journalism
Q: Who wrote 'The Birds' in 1952, a short story on which Hitchcock based his film? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: Which Bombay-born former Daily Telegraph journalist is the BBC sports editor? A: Mihir Bose
Q: In what make of aircraft did Chuck Yeager break the sound barrier in October 1947? A: Bell
Q: The Seminole native tribe of Indians are indigenous to which American state? A: Florida
Q: Which Labour Party leader was described as 'a desiccated adding machine' by Aneurin Bevan? A: Hugh Gaitskell
Q: What is the capital of Nigeria? A: Abuja
Q: Which English football league team's nickname is the Millers? A: Rotherham
Q: Which car company produced the Elf and Kestrel models? A: Riley
Q: Which company produced the WW1 aircraft the 'Camel'? A: Sopwith
Q: Which Welsh cathedral is the smallest in Great Britain? A: St Asaph
Q: K is the international registration plate of which Asian country? A: Cambodia
Q: Which famous.cricket player was born on 7th March 1952 in St Johns, Antigua? A: Sir Viv Richards
Q: What is the name of the system used to determine the winning scores, in rain-interrupted one day cricket matches? A: Duckworth-Lewis
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in Rodney Street, Liverpool? A: W E Gladstone
Q: Which Shakespeare play has the stage direction 'Exit pursued by a bear'? A: The Winter's Tale
Q: 'I am a man more sinned against than sinning' is a quotation from which Shakespeare play? A: King Lear
Q: From which musical does the song 'Till There Was You' come? A: The Music Man
Q: What was the name of the last steam locomotive to be commissioned by British Railways, in 1960? A: Evening Star
Q: The arbalest was a variety of which weapon? A: Crossbow
Q: In which hospital was the first heart transplant performed? A: Groote Schuur
Q: What is the national currency of Paraguay? A: Guarani
Q: In what year did Roald Amundsen reach the South Pole for the first time? A: 1911
Q: Mrs Fitzherbert was the mistress of which English king? A: George IV
Q: Of what is St Jude the patron? A: Lost causes
Q: What is the appropriate nickname of the New Zealand basketball team? A: The Tall Blacks
Q: What nickname is given to the Australian Association Football International team? A: The Socceroos
Q: Who in Greek mythology was the mother of Clytemnestra and Helen? A: LEDA
Q: Which architect designed Blenheim Palace? A: Sir JOHN VANBRUGH
Q: Which planet has moons called Triton and Nereid? A: NEPTUNE
Q: People hoping to follow which career are trained at Norland College? A: NANNIES
Q: In the Rupert Bear stories, what was the name of the pug dog? A: ALGY
Q: Which German novelist, a Nobel prize winner in 1999, wrote 'A Wide Field' and 'The Tin Drum'? A: GUNTHER GRASS
Q: What common name is given to the lowest temperature at which a material gives off enough flammable vapour for it to ignite? A: FLASH POINT
Q: For which county did Mike Gatting play cricket? A: MIDDLESEX
Q: What was the word for an Indian soldier serving under the British in India? A: SEPOY
Q: In Norse mythology, what is the name of Odin's eight-legged horse? A: SLEIPNIR
Q: In warfare, what name is given to a hastily constructed temporary defence or a parapet a few feet high, the name deriving from the approximate height that it is built to? A: BREASTWORK
Q: In which children's TV programme did you see Mrs Goggins and Tom Pottage? A: POSTMAN PAT
Q: In which Shakespeare play would you find the characters Gertrude, Laertes and Horatio? A: HAMLET
Q: Whose wedding was the main event of the last episode of Dad's Army? A: CORPORAL JONES
Q: Which architect worked with Sir Charles Barry on the new Palace of Westminster? A: Augustus PUGIN
Q: Minus 273 degrees Celsius is known as what? A: ABSOLUTE ZERO
Q: From which musical does the song 'Anything you can do' come? A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: Which American won the discus Gold medal at four consecutive Olympics between 1956 and 1968? A: AL OERTER
Q: Which French author wrote 'Nana', 'Germinal' and `J'Accuse'? A: EMILE ZOLA
Q: Iqualuit is the capital of which Canadian autonomous Inuit territory created in 1999? A: NUNAVUT
Q: Who in the Bible was the mother of Isaac? A: SARAH
Q: Tagalog is a language native to which country? A: PHILLIPINES
Q: Which herb is usually used in the tomato base for a pizza? A: OREGANO
Q: Which philosopher wrote the 'The Critique of Pure Reason'? A: IMMANUEL KANT
Q: What device did US computer engineer Douglas Englebart invent in 1969? A: The COMPUTER MOUSE
Q: Who wrote the short story on which the 2006 film 'Brokeback Mountain was based? A: E. ANNIE PROULX
Q: What, in the world of computing, did Larry Page and Sergey Brin found? A: GOOGLE
Q: Which common tree has the Latin name Aesculus Hippocastanum? A: HORSE CHESTNUT
Q: What was the name of the 'Acid Bath Murderer'? A: John HAIGH
Q: By what Treaty in 1713 was Gibraltar ceded to Britain in perpetuity? A: TREATY of UTRECHT
Q: What was the name of the 'Brides in the Bath Murderer'? A: George SMITH
Q: Which brothers own the Daily Telegraph? A: BARCLAY BROTHERS
Q: The hallux is the medical term for which part of the body? A: BIG TOE
Q: In 1947, a research physicist Chester Carlson set up which company to sell his invention, an office machine? A: XEROX
Q: Yoruba is a language spoken in which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: Who wrote the screenplay for the film 'The Madness of King George'? A: ALAN BENNETT
Q: As a figure of speech, what is something hinted or implied without being definitely stated? A: INNUENDO
Q: Julian Bream is a virtuoso mainly on which instrument? A: GUITAR
Q: Who originated the philosophy of 'Utilitarianism'? A: JEREMY BENTHAM
Q: Barbara Hulanicki founded which chain of fashion shops, famous in the 1960s? A: BIBA
Q: Which common tree has the Latin name Acer pseudoplatanus? A: SYCAMORE
Q: Which actor played the lead in the film 'Air Force One'? A: HARRISON FORD
Q: Which word is defined as 'an Arctic plain of permanently frozen subsoil, with dwarfed vegetation'? A: TUNDRA
Q: Which league football dub are nicknamed 'The Bantams'? A: BRADFORD CITY
Q: Which Shakespeare tragedy takes place in both Venice and Cyprus? A: Othello
Q: The mesosphere, at 50km to 80-90km altitude above Earth's surface, is directly above which other layer? A: Stratosphere
Q: "Which English Poet Laureate wrote ""The Faerie Queene""?" A: Edmund Spencer
Q: Who was the third President of the USA; he died on July 4th, 1826? A: Thomas Jefferson
Q: "Which Irish rock band released the albums ""Boy"", ""October"", and ""War""?" A: U2
Q: Fagus sylvatica is the botanical name for which common forest tree? A: Beech
Q: "Who composed the oratorio ""A German Requiem"", also a quintet for clarinet and strings, etc?" A: Johannes Brahms
Q: A boxer between 155-160 lb. (72.6 kg) is classed in which weight? A: Middleweight
Q: Which Old Testament prophet was summoned by the Witch of Endor? A: Samuel
Q: In which year was the Battle of Gettysburg; David Lloyd George born; the first section of the London Underground opened? A: 1863
Q: Which English chemist isolated the metals sodium and magnesium, etc? A: Sir Humphry Davy
Q: "Who directed the 1990 film ""Dances With Wolves""?" A: Kevin Costner
Q: The flag of which European country is a red-white-green horizontal tricolour? A: Hungary
Q: Which now retired English football referee booked Croatian Josip Simunic three times (playing against Australia) in the 2006 World Cup? A: Graham Poll
Q: Which unit of dry volume was defined as containing eight gallons? A: (Imperial) Bushel
Q: Which dish usually contains apple, nuts, celery, and a mayonnaise-based dressing? A: Waldorf Salad
Q: "What is the name of the baker in TV's ""Camberwick Green""?" A: Mickey Murphy
Q: Which daughter of Agamemnon was sacrificed for a fair wind? A: Iphigenia
Q: Nereid and Triton are satellites of which planet? A: Neptune
Q: Which Shakespeare play takes place in both Bohemia and Sicily? A: The Winter's Tale
Q: What is the lowest part of the Earth's atmosphere, which may be 2 km high above the Earth's surface? A: Troposphere
Q: Who was the father of King Richard the Second of England? A: Edward the Black Prince,.
Q: "Who wrote ""The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy""?" A: Laurence Sterne
Q: Who was appointed as first President of the British Royal Academy? A: Sir Joshua Reynolds
Q: "Which English rock band's albums included ""Communique"", ""Love Over Gold"", ""On Every Street""?" A: Dire Straits
Q: The WW2 Guadalcanal Campaign was on which of the Pacific islands? A: Solomon Islands
Q: "Who composed the oratorio ""Elijah"" and an ""Italian Symphony""?" A: Felix Mendelssohn
Q: "Which English author wrote a trilogy of fantasy novels entitled ""His Dark Materials""?" A: Philip Pullman
Q: In the New Testament, who is father of John the Baptist? A: Zacharias
Q: In which year was Mata Hari arrested; the Battle of Cambrai fought; King George the Fifth changed the Royal family surname to Windsor? A: 1917
Q: "Who wrote the lines of poetry 'Hail to thee, blithe spirit! Bird thou never wert""?" A: (Percy Bysshe) Shelley
Q: "Who won the Best Director and Best Picture Oscars for the 1982 film ""Gandhi""?" A: Richard Attenborough
Q: Which Imperial liquid measure was defined as containing five fluid ounces? A: Gill
Q: "Which late actress (real first names Ruth Elizabeth), said: ""Fasten your seat belts, it's going to be a bumpy night""?" A: Bette Davies
Q: Thomas the Tank Engine lives at a big station on which island? A: Sodor
Q: Titan and Rhea are major satellites of which planet? A: Saturn
Q: Chrissie Hynde is a vocalist/guitarist with which rock band? A: The Pretenders
Q: Which Latin phrase means 'sincere' or 'in good faith'? A: Bona Fide
Q: In the first verse of the nursery rhyme 'Old King Cole', what did he call for besides his pipe and bowl? A: His Fiddlers Three
Q: Jacques Cousteau's famous boat shares its name with which form of West Indian music? A: Calypso
Q: Travelling west along the M4 motorway, which county would you enter as you left Berkshire? A: Wiltshire
Q: "Which film featured the hit song ""I've had the time of my life""?" A: Dirty Dancing
Q: Sunderland stands on which river? A: Wear
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 1998 with the novel 'Amsterdam'? A: Ian McEwan
Q: Which British Prime Minister was born in New Brunswick, Canada? A: Bonar Law
Q: Who wrote symphonies nicknamed 'Paris' and 'Prague'? A: Mozart
Q: In cookery, what name is given to a cooked mixture of equal parts of butter and flour? A: Roux
Q: Belgian Kriek beer is flavoured with which fruit? A: Cherry
Q: Who won the Booker Prize in 1990 with the novel 'Possession'? A: A.S. Byatt
Q: By what name was model Lesley Hornby better known? A: Twiggy
Q: Which British Prime Minister was a cousin of Rudyard Kipling? A: Baldwin
Q: The alcoholic drink 'Mirabelle' is flavoured with which fruit? A: Plums
Q: Who said that in the future everyone would be famous for fifteen minutes? A: Andy Warhol
Q: Norwich stands on which river? A: Wensum
Q: Which 2003 film is based on the activities of Rylstone Women's Institute? A: Calendar Girls
Q: Apart from London, in which other British city is there a place called Charing Cross? A: Glasgow
Q: Travelling north along the M1 motorway, which county would you enter as you left Hertfordshire? A: Bedfordshire
Q: Who was King of Scotland between Duncan and Malcolm Canmore? A: Macbeth
Q: Who invented the road safety feature 'cat's eyes'? A: Percy Shaw
Q: At which sport do Great Britain and USA play for the Westchester Cup? A: Polo
Q: Turin is the major city of which region of Italy? A: Piedmont
Q: In cookery what is the chief ingredient along with egg in making mayonnaise? A: Olive oil
Q: What was the code name for the German invasion of Russia in World War 2? A: Barbarossa
Q: "Which film featured the hit song ""Take My Breath Away""?" A: Top Gun
Q: Which admiral assumed command at Trafalgar after the death of Nelson? A: Collingwood
Q: Which hero was the son of Zeus by Alcmene? A: Hercules
Q: A dish described as la Bretonne' is garnished with which vegetable? A: Beans
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Hungry as the Sea'? A: Wilbur Smith
Q: Which physicist proposed the Quantum theory? A: Max Planck
Q: Which is the longest muscle in the human body? A: Sartorius
Q: What name is commonly given to the theatre produced by the playwrights Beckett, Ionesco, Genet, Pinter and others? A: Theatre of the Absurd
Q: Which Russian was the first man to walk in space? A: Alexei Leonov
Q: Which English King married Henrietta Maria, the daughter of Henry 4th of France? A: Charles 1st
Q: What is the name of Nick Park's film animation company? A: Aardman
Q: Florence is the major city of which region of Italy? A: Tuscany
Q: A dish described as 'Parmentier' includes which vegetable? A: Potato
Q: Which astronomer proposed the theory of the expanding universe? A: Edwin Hubble
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Chesapeake'? A: James Michener
Q: How many pounds are there in one hundredweight? A: 112
Q: What is the weight in pounds of a gallon of water? A: 10
Q: Who was the first American to walk in space? A: Ed White
Q: Name the ancient civilised region bordered by the two rivers, Tigris and Euphrates? A: Mesopotamia
Q: In American Football, how many points are awarded for a 'safety'? A: Two
Q: In which county is the National Nature Reserve of Barton Hills? A: Bedfordshire
Q: A new 50p coin was issued in 2007 showing a fleur-de-lys embossed on a globe, it was issued to celebrate the anniversary of what? A: Scouting
Q: Peter Parker is the secret identity of which comic book character? A: Spiderman
Q: Britain's oldest working theatre, built in 1766, is called the 'Old Vic', in which city is it? A: Bristol
Q: Which was the first European country to give women the vote when they voted in the National elections of 1906? A: Finland
Q: What is the popular name of Tchaikovsky's Symphony no.6 in B minor? A: Pathetique
Q: Bruce Banner is the secret identity of which comic book character? A: The Incredible Hulk
Q: Which band of the 1960s and 1970s had the following line-up: Graeme Edge, Mike Pinder, John Lodge, Ray Thomas and Justin Hayward? A: Moody Blues
Q: Which novel won a Pulitzer Prize for Alice Walker? A: The Colour Purple
Q: In 1972, Hawkwind had their only UK top ten hit with which song? A: Silver Machine
Q: "Who threatened to ""thcream and thcream and thcream until I'm thick""?" A: Violet Elizabeth Bott
Q: How is the Chief Gentleman Usher to the Sovereign and Usher to the Order of the Garter more commonly known? A: Black Rod
Q: What was Sherlock Holmes' first case? A: A Study in Scarlet
Q: Which American TV sitcom featured the families of sisters Jessica Tate and Mary Campbell? A: Soap
Q: The Pink Sea Fan is an endangered species found in the sea around the coast of Britain, what is it? A: Coral
Q: Which 2002 Martin Scorsese film, set in the Five Points district, is loosely based on a 1928 novel by Herbert Asbury? A: Gangs of New York
Q: Which car company make an SUV (sports utility vehicle) called the `RAV 4'? A: Toyota
Q: Which was the last European country to give full voting rights to women, in 1989? A: Switzerland
Q: Which car company make an SUV (sports utility vehicle) called the 'CRY'? A: Honda
Q: Achilles and Hector appear as characters in which Shakespeare play? A: Troilus and Cressida
Q: Who was the actor, who died in July 2006, who starred as the TV detective 'Crane' and appeared in the advertising campaign for Barrett Homes? A: Patrick Allen
Q: The Hedge-Sparrow is more properly known by which name? A: Dunnock
Q: Sana'a is the capital of which country? A: Yemen
Q: In which British city is the Traverse Theatre? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which country joined the EEC at the same time as UK and Ireland in 1973? A: Denmark
Q: Which singer recorded the very successful album 'Back to Black'? A: Amy Winehouse
Q: The Shuttleworth Collection, based in Bedfordshire, is an important National Museum; of what is it a collection? A: Aeroplanes
Q: Haddon Hall in Derbyshire was used by the BBC to represent which property in a 2006 classic serial? A: Thornfield Hall
Q: Which 1854 opera was the first in Wagner's Ring Cycle? A: Das Rheingold
Q: Who wrote the book 'Tobacco Road'? A: Erskine Caldwell
Q: Who was Poet Laureate from 1930 to 1967? A: John Masefield
Q: Which 1951 novel by Nikos Kazantzakis became even more controversial when Martin Scorsese's film of the book was released in 1988? A: The Last Temptation of Christ
Q: Who is the MP for Witney, Oxfordshire? A: David Cameron
Q: The 'merle' is another name for which common bird? A: Blackbird
Q: The Thirty Years War was a conflict between France, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands on one side against Austria, who were supported by which other country? A: Spain
Q: Podgorica is the capital of which country? A: Montenegro
Q: In the English calendar, which is the first Quarter Day? A: Lady Day
Q: Which US President introduced Thanksgiving Day? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Who was the only bachelor President of the USA? A: James Buchanan
Q: Which river, the fifth longest in Europe, is Portugal's longest? A: Tagus
Q: Who wrote the play 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof? A: Tennessee Williams
Q: In the children's TV programme 'The Flowerpot Men', what was the name of the tortoise? A: Slowcoach
Q: Which city was home to Marco Polo? A: Venice
Q: In which county is the preserved heritage steam railway the 'Watercress Line'? A: Hampshire
Q: Which nymph kept Odysseus on an island for seven years? A: Calypso
Q: The tenor Rolando Villazon is from which country? A: Mexico
Q: Which golfer was the first British winner of the US Masters, winning in 1988? A: Sandy Lyle
Q: Which children's TV programme featured a toad named Gabriel and a rag doll named Madeleine? A: Bagpuss
Q: Named after the Belgian-born chemist who invented it in about 1907, what was the first commercial plastic (made from formaldehyde and phenol)? A: Bakelite
Q: Who had a hit with 'What becomes of the broken hearted' in 1966 and again in 1974? A: Jimmy Ruffin
Q: What was the title of the Ronnie Barker sitcom in which he played a Welsh photographer? A: The Magnificent Evans
Q: In which Italian city was Christopher Columbus born? A: Genoa
Q: Who won her first Best Actress Oscar in 1934 and her last in 1982? A: Katherine Hepburn
Q: What product is made by the company 'Crocs Inc'? A: Shoes
Q: What is the most southerly of the UK shipping forecast areas? A: Trafalgar
Q: What part of the body is affected by Meniere's Syndrome? A: (Inner) ear
Q: Who was the first British golfer to win the World Match-Play Championship, beating Sandy Lyle in the final in 1987? A: Ian Woosnam
Q: Alberto Contador won which major sporting event in 2007? A: Tour de France
Q: The tenor Juan Diego Florez is from which country? A: Peru
Q: Which Sussex hill is the site of the Battle of Hastings? A: Senlac
Q: Who wrote the children's classic 'Charlotte's Web'? A: E.B. White
Q: The flag of which Canadian province includes the cross of St Andrew? A: Nova Scotia
Q: Invented by Alexander Parkes in about 1856 and originally called Parkesine, what was the first thermo-plastic? A: Celluloid
Q: Which of the UK shipping forecast areas is named after the founder of the Meteorological Society? A: Fitzroy
Q: Whitehorse is the capital of which Canadian territory? A: Yukon
Q: Which London landmark was built to commemorate Lord Nelson's and the Duke of Wellington's victories? A: Marble Arch
Q: What is the name of the main mountain system of Mexico? A: Sierra Madre
Q: How are Rochester, Chatham and Gillingham known collectively? A: Medway Towns
Q: In 'The Lord of the Rings' what are Sting and Glamdring? A: Swords
Q: Which orchestra traditionally plays at the 'Last Night of the Proms' each September? A: BBC Symphony
Q: Which American rock and roll pianist had a hit with song `Blueberry Hill'? A: FATS DOMINO
Q: Of which king was Eleanor of Castile queen? A: EDWARD I
Q: Which people of Kenya and Tanzania are particularly noted for their warriors? A: MASAI
Q: Which is the brightest star in the northern constellation of Bootes? A: ARCTURUS
Q: Which European country contains the ski resorts of Davos and Klosters? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: Which daughter of King Priam prophesied the fall of Troy, but was not believed? A: CASSANDRA
Q: What is the capital of Qatar? A: DOHA
Q: By what name is the Australian echidna also known? A: SPINY ANTEATER
Q: Which Italian town, at the foot of a hill containing a Benedictine Monastery was destroyed during heavy fighting in 1944? A: CASSINO
Q: In which European country is the resort of Antibes known for Roman remains? A: FRANCE
Q: What is the wind of force 12 or more on the Beaufort scale called? A: HURRICANE
Q: In what year did the Falkands War take place? A: 1982
Q: Which word, Italian for air, is used to describe a solo song with instrumental accompaniment in opera? A: ARIA
Q: From which Asian country did calico originally come? A: INDIA
Q: Which fungal disease of trees was first described in the Netherlands? A: DUTCH ELM DISEASE
Q: What was the sequel to Lewis Carroll's 'Alice's Adventure in Wonderland? A: THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS
Q: Which acrobatic garden bird has the Latin name parus caeruleus? A: BLUE TIT
Q: Which breed of dog, bred for hare coursing and racing, can reach speeds of over 40mph? A: GREYHOUND
Q: Which hard dark wood is traditionally used for the black keys on a piano? A: EBONY
Q: Who starred as unconventional English teacher John Keating in the 1989 film Dead Poets Society? A: ROBIN WILLIAMS
Q: Who wrote children's stories Little Lord Fauntleroy and The Secret Garden? A: FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT
Q: Which Scottish town is the administrative centre of the Highland Region? A: INVERNESS
Q: Which English prison reformer campaigned for the improvement of conditions at Newgate in the early 19th century? A: ELIZABETH FRY
Q: To which genus of plants does the snapdragon belong? A: ANTIRRHINUM
Q: What sort of creature is a whirligig? A: A WATER BEETLE
Q: Which unsuccessful plot of 1820 was led by Arthur Thistlewood? A: THE CATO STREET CONSPIRACY
Q: Which British philologist was hanged for the murder of Daniel Clark in 1759? A: EUGENE ARAM
Q: Who anointed Saul as the first King of Israel? A: SAMUEL
Q: Which former MP wrote The Four Feathers and stories featuring Inspector Hanaud? A: A E W MASON
Q: James Hutton is generally regarded as the founder of which scientific discipline? A: GEOLOGY
Q: Of which ocean is the White Sea a gulf? A: ARCTIC
Q: What sort of instruments are Timbal, tabla and bodhran? A: DRUMS
Q: For which British contralto singer did Elgar write his Sea Pictures? A: DAME CLARA BUTT
Q: Which US Vice President killed his political rival Alexander Hamilton in a duel? A: AARON BURR
Q: Which Czech author wrote The Trial and The Castle? A: FRANZ KAFKA
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the father of Rehoboam? A: SOLOMON
Q: Who invented the Kodak camera? A: GEORGE EASTMAN
Q: Who wrote the poem The Faerie Queen? A: EDMUND SPENSER
Q: Which county won the 1997 County Championship in cricket for the first time? A: GLAMORGAN
Q: In the Bible, the Acts of the Apostles was written by which Evangelist? A: LUKE
Q: In which English county is Dunkery Beacon, at 1705 foot, the highest point? A: SOMERSET
Q: What have Hinkley Point, Trawsfynydd and Hunterston in common? A: NUCLEAR POWER STATIONS
Q: Selden, an escaped convict, was a character in which Sherlock Holmes novel by Conan Doyle? A: THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES
Q: In which English county are the towns of Letchworth, Cheshunt and Bishop's Stortford? A: HERTFORDSHIRE
Q: Which is the third book of the Old Testament? A: LEVITICUS
Q: What is the name of the Government laboratory at the centre of the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in 2007? A: PIRBRIGHT
Q: "Mae West's immortal line ""Come up and see me sometime"" was spoken to which Hollywood actor?" A: CARY GRANT
Q: In which county in Northern Ireland are the towns of Ballymena, Larne and Carrickfergus? A: COUNTY ANTRIM
Q: "Where, in the novel ""The Count of Monte Christo, by Alexandre Dumas, does the Abbe Faria befriend Edmond Dantes during his time in prison?" A: THE CHATEAU D'IF
Q: "Tommy Steele went to No 1 in the UK charts in 1956 with his cover version of the song ""Singing the Blues"". Which American singer also reached No 1 in the U.K. with his version of the same song?" A: GUY MITCHELL
Q: "Which popular British comedian had as his catch-phrase, ""You Lucky People""?" A: TOMMY TRINDER
Q: What have Fawley, Stanlow and Milford Haven in common? A: OIL REFINERIES
Q: "Who composed the music to the ballet, ""Sylvia"", first performed in 1876?" A: LEO DELIBES
Q: Which 1965 Beatles song was re-released in 1989 by Bananarama in aid of Comic relief? A: HELP
Q: In which English county is Westonbirt, home of the Forestry Commission National Arboretum? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: "Which German born super-model, actress and singer currently hosts the TV show, ""Germany's Next Top Model""?" A: HEIDI KLUM
Q: The Battle of Culloden, in 1746, was fought close to which Scottish city? A: INVERNESS
Q: Of which musical instrument is a chanter a component part? A: BAGPIPES
Q: What name is given to the official in the Roman Catholic Church, appointed to state the case for the opposition, when considering beatification or canonisation of a candidate? A: DEVIL'S ADVOCATE
Q: Two European golfers won their first majors titles in 1985. Sandy Lyle won the Open Championship at Sandwich, but which man won the U.S. Masters that year? A: BERNHARD LANGER
Q: How many players are there in a netball team? A: SEVEN
Q: To which genus of trees does the willow belong? A: SALIX
Q: Which war was ended in 1648 with signing of the Treaty of Westphalia? A: THE THIRTY YEARS WAR
Q: In March 2005, 25 year old Johnson Beharry became the first new owner of which item for nearly 25 years? A: A VICTORIA CROSS
Q: What name is given to the Aboriginal device, which is used to propel a spear more forcibly and accurately? A: A WOOMERA
Q: Hors D'Oeuvres, usually consisting of marinated vegetables, or cured meats, are known by what name in Italy? A: ANTIPASTI
Q: What was the name of the horse ridden by the famous cowboy actor, Gene Autry? A: CHAMPION
Q: In July 2005, who was the Brazilian electrician killed by the Metropolitan Police at Stockwell tube station? A: JEAN CHARLES DE MENEZES
Q: The signing of which treaty in 1902 ended the Second Boer War? A: TREATY OF VEREENIGING
Q: Which African country was known, from 1960 until 1971 as the Democratic Republic of Congo? A: ZAIRE
Q: How many chukkas are normally played in a game of polo? A: SIX
Q: Which American golfer, winner of three majors, was tragically killed in a plane crash in 1999? At the time of his death, he was the reigning U.S. Open champion? A: PAYNE STEWART
Q: What is the country of origin of Gruyere cheese? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: The liqueur, Chartreuse, is named after the monastery situated near which city in S.E France? A: GRENOBLE
Q: "Which Afro American super model, TV personality and singer hosts the TV show, ""America's Next Top Model"" and also has her own daytime TV chat show?" A: TYRA BANKS
Q: In which part of the British Isles is Scapa Flow, where the UK 's chief naval base was situated during the two World Wars? A: THE ORKNEYS
Q: Which US crime writer also wrote under the name of Evan Hunter? A: Ed McBain
Q: Who became the 100th Archbishop of Canterbury in 1961? A: Dr Michael Ramsey
Q: What is the SI unit of force? A: Newton
Q: What spirit drink is the base of a Tom Collins cocktail? A: Gin
Q: Which is the only US state with just one bordering US state? A: Maine
Q: In which year did all of the following occur: QE2 arrives in New York on her maiden voyage, the Kray twins were jailed for life and Boeing 747 makes its first test flight? A: 1969
Q: What was the name of King Harold of England's brother who fought against him at the Battle of Stamford Bridge? A: Tostig
Q: In which year did all of the following occur: Prime Minister imposes direct rule on Northern Ireland, Idi Amin expels 50,000 Asians in 3 months and St Helens win the Rugby League Challenge Cup? A: 1972
Q: How many points are awarded for a touchdown in American football? A: Six
Q: What type of fruit is a kumquat? A: Orange
Q: In the TV sitcom 'Friends' what is the name of Phoebe's twin sister? A: Ursula
Q: The son of Hannah, his name meaning 'Name of God' who was the last of the Old Testament Hebrew judges? A: Samuel
Q: In the Old Testament who led the Israelites into the Promised Land? A: Joshua
Q: The Bunyip is a mythical creature in the folklore of which native people? A: Australian aborigine
Q: Originating in 1956, what is the double-barrelled name of the US Antarctic research station situated at the South Pole? A: Amundsen-Scott
Q: In Norse mythology who is the queen of the underworld and the daughter of Loki? A: Hel
Q: Who was the AC Milan coach when they lost the 2005 Champions League final to Liverpool? A: Carlo Ancelotti
Q: France, Holland and which other country fought on the American side in the US War of Independence? A: Spain
Q: In French what is a bergere, as in Les Folies Bergere? A: Shepherd(ess)
Q: Which Archbishop of Canterbury conducted the queen's coronation ceremony in 1953? A: Geoffrey Fisher
Q: Which European female singer's albums have included 'Debut', 'Post', 'Homogenic' and 'Saved By Magic'? A: Bjork
Q: Which former children's laureate was Kirsty Young's first castaway on 'Desert Island Discs'? A: Quentin Blake
Q: In Egyptian mythology, the brother of Horus and Isis, who was the god of storms, and often represented as a hippopotamus? A: Set
Q: """No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs,"" is the autobiography of which punk rocker?" A: John Lydon
Q: What is the last event of an Olympic decathlon? A: 1500 metres
Q: One of the most frequent symptoms presented to medics, what is cephalalgia? A: Headache
Q: What is the SI unit of frequency? A: Hertz
Q: Which US singer was born Alecia Moore in 1979, her hits include 'Get the Party Started', 'Family Portrait', 'Stupid Girls' and 'Who Knew'? A: Pink
Q: Which composer, whose most famous opera is 'Der Freischutz,' died of tuberculosis in London in 1826? A: Carl Maria von Weber
Q: At which battle of 1298 was William Wallace defeated by the English? A: Falkirk
Q: Who was the coach of Bayern Munich when they lost the 1999 Champions League final to Manchester United, before winning it in 2001? A: Ottmar Hitzfeld
Q: What is the popular name of the dance performed to the 'Galop Infernal' from 'Orpheus in the Underworld' by Offenbach? A: Can Can
Q: The writing form known as Linear B was a graphic representation of which specific ancient language? A: Mycenaean
Q: What treaty signed in March 1918 between Russia and Germany ended Russia's participation in World War 1 and the loss of its Baltic and Ottoman territories? A: Brest-Litovsk
Q: Sentenced to 8 years in 2006 for crimes committed over 25 yrs earlier, by what name was John Humble known to the police? A: Wearside Jack
Q: What spirit drink is the base of a screwdriver cocktail? A: Vodka
Q: In the TV sitcom 'Frasier' what is the forename of Frasier's producer played by Peri Gilpin? A: Roz
Q: Guinea-Bissau was until 1973 a colony of which country? A: Portugal
Q: What river rises in Russia and flows through Belarus before reaching the sea in the Ukraine? A: Dneiper
Q: In the 2006 Formula 1 season Jenson Button and which other driver won his first ever Grand Prix? A: Felipe Massa
Q: In French what is a moulin, as in Moulin Rouge? A: Windmill
Q: In the telecoms term 3G, for what does the letter G stand? A: (Third) Generation
Q: The national anthem of which European country has the same tune as 'God Saves The Queen'? A: Liechtenstein
Q: Which US vice president had a family dog named Checkers? A: Richard Nixon
Q: Under what name is bummalo fish served in a restaurant? A: Bombay duck
Q: In a Disney film, which character is befriended by Timothy Q. Mouse? A: Dumbo
Q: In which year did Louis Bleriot make the first powered flight across the English Channel? A: 1909
Q: What were introduced to the British calendar by Sir John Lubbock, Governor of the Bank of England? A: Bank Holidays
Q: Who was the first man to win tennis's Grand Slam, winning all four major championships in 1938? A: Donald Budge
Q: Which now defunct car company manufactured the models Hunter, Husky and Wizard? A: Hillman
Q: Malachite is a principal ore of which metal? A: Copper
Q: Who was the only President of the Confederate States of the USA? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: In which year did Chuck Yeager first break the sound barrier in a Bell X-1 rocket plane? A: 1947
Q: What was the name of John Mayall's band which included, at various times, Eric Clapton, John McVie, Peter Green and Mick Taylor? A: (John Mayall's) Bluesbreakers
Q: Which Grade 1 listed attraction in the north-west was opened in 1894, having been built by Heenan and Froude? A: Blackpool Tower
Q: Which major trunk road runs south from Wick to just north of Stirling where it then becomes a motorway? A: A9
Q: Which famous singer was a member of 'Bluesology' in the early 1960s, leaving in 1967 and changing his name to one that was a combination of the names of two members of the group? A: Elton John
Q: Which spirit is included in the cocktail 'Gibson'? A: Gin
Q: Which now defunct car company manufactured the models Horizon, Samba and Solara? A: Talbot
Q: Only one man since Donald Budge has won the tennis Grand Slam, achieving this feat twice, who is he? A: Rod Laver
Q: Where were the first shots fired at the start of the American Civil War? A: Fort Sumter
Q: Benidorm and Alicante are on which Spanish Costa? A: Blanca
Q: What name is given to the Sunday before Easter? A: Palm Sunday
Q: The adjective 'cervine' refers to which creatures? A: Deer
Q: Who was replaced by Jonathan Ross as presenter of BBC TV's 'Film Review'? A: Barry Norman
Q: In which African country is the province of Darfur? A: Sudan
Q: The Saffir-Simpson Scale estimates the damage done by what phenomenon? A: Hurricanes
Q: 'The World of Crinkley Bottom', a tourist attraction based on Noel Edmund's TV show opened and closed within 13 weeks in 1994, in which seaside resort? A: Morecambe
Q: Which TV police series is set in Denton? A: Frost
Q: Who won the Booker Prize twice for his novels 'The Life and Times of Michael K' and 'Disgrace'? A: J.M. Coetzee
Q: Oxford and Cambridge were England's first two universities, which was the third founded in 1832? A: Durham
Q: The Costa Smerelda is on which Mediterranean island? A: Sardinia
Q: The maple belongs to which genus of tree? A: Acer
Q: In which Verdi opera is 'Gilda' the jester's daughter? A: Rigoletto
Q: At whose feast did the 'writing on the wall' appear? A: Belshazzar
Q: Who wrote the oratorio featuring the writing on the wall? A: William Walton
Q: What was the name of the Norse God of or spirit of Mischief? A: Loki
Q: Sir Mark Thatcher was arrested and prosecuted for assisting a coup in which African country? A: Equatorial Guinea
Q: Which mountain pass, from Innsbruck to Bolzano, is the lowest Alpine pass and is usually open all year? A: Brenner Pass
Q: What is the family name of Lord Northcliffe? A: Harmsworth
Q: "The Scoville Scale measures the ""hotness"" of what?" A: Chilli peppers
Q: Which was Scotland's first university, founded in 1411? A: St Andrews
Q: Which mountain pass connects Pakistan and Afghanistan? A: Khyber Pass
Q: The adjective 'ophidian' refers to which creatures? A: Snakes
Q: The yew belongs to which genus of tree? A: Taxus
Q: Who won the Booker Prize twice for his novels 'Oscar and Lucinda' and 'True History of the Kelly Gang'? A: Peter Carey
Q: Which is the chief male sex hormone? A: Testosterone
Q: How many letters are there in the Greek alphabet? A: 24
Q: Which sea, an arm of the Indian Ocean, lies to the North and West of Darwin, in Australia's Northern Territories? A: THE TIMOR SEA
Q: Which English King was married to Edith Swan-Neck, also known as Edith the Fair? A: HAROLD II
Q: "Which TV screenwriter created the science fiction shows, ""Survivors"" and ""Blake's Seven""?" A: TERRY NATION
Q: Which comedian sang about the difficulties of being a cowboy in Rochdale Cowboy? A: MIKE HARDING
Q: Which canal was constructed to link the Great Lakes Erie and Ontario, thus bypassing the Niagara Falls? A: THE WELLAND CANAL
Q: In which 1997 Ridley Scott film was Demi Moore forced to shave her head? A: GI JANE
Q: Castlebay is the main town on which Scottish island? A: BARRA
Q: Brodick is the main town on which Scottish island? A: ISLE OF ARRAN
Q: Which ship ran aground in 1846, on its maiden voyage, in Dundrum Bay, Co. Down? A: SS GREAT BRITAIN
Q: In which 1993 film did Robin Williams pretend to be a female housekeeper for his ex wife, in order to spend time with his children? A: MRS DOUBTFIRE
Q: In Indian cuisine, what is the main vegetable ingredient in a saag dish? A: SPINACH
Q: In which Canadian City would one cross the Jacques Cartier Bridge? A: MONTREAL
Q: "Which American TV producer created the series. ""The Invaders"" and ""Cannon""?" A: QUINN MARTIN
Q: """Sedgemoor"" and ""Frankley"" service areas can be found on which of Britain's motorways?" A: M5
Q: What was the name of William the Conqueror's eldest son, who, on his father's death, became Duke of Normandy? A: ROBERT
Q: The Vedas are the ancient, most sacred writings of which religion? A: HINDUISM
Q: "Who, in 1872, composed the opera, ""Boris Godunov"", based on the drama by Aleksandr Pushkin?" A: MODESTE MUSSORGSKI
Q: Which sea, separated from the Black Sea by the Strait of Kerch, suffered an ecological disaster in November 2007, when a fierce storm wrecked numerous oil tankers? A: SEA OF AZOV
Q: "In the 1996 film, ""Mars Attacks"", which actor played the part of the US President?" A: JACK NICHOLSON
Q: """The Buck Stops Here"" was the maxim of which US President?" A: HARRY S TRUMAN
Q: The fleet of which nation sailed up the Thames, and then the Medway in 1667, successfully attacking and burning English ships, laid up in Chatham naval base? A: HOLLAND
Q: What name is given to the character, not unlike a comma, which is placed underneath the letter C in French to denote its pronunciation as an S and not a K? A: A CEDILLA
Q: Which breed of heavy carthorse originated in Scotland? A: THE CLYDESDALE
Q: Who scored a spectacular goal in extra time in the 1971 F.A. Cup Final to win the trophy for Arsenal? A: CHARLIE GEORGE
Q: The two major ingredients of Daiquiri cocktails are rum and the juice of which fruit? A: LIME
Q: Which ancient civilisation had its capital at Knossos on the island of Crete? A: MINOAN
Q: Who was the third husband of Mary, Queen of Scots, commonly believed to have murdered her second husband, Lord Darnley? A: EARL OF BOTHWELL
Q: "Which island is the setting for Bizet's opera, ""The Pearl Fishers""?" A: CEYLON now SRI LANKA
Q: The dessert zabaglione is traditionally prepared by whipping together a mixture of sugar, egg yolks and which alcoholic drink? A: MARSALA
Q: Who scored an equalising goal for Coventry City against Spurs in the 1987 F.A. Cup Final, with a spectacular diving header, which enabled his side to go on and win the trophy in extra time? A: KEITH HOUCHEN
Q: "In the film ""Calamity Jane"" staffing Doris Day, who was the owner of the Golden Garter saloon, mentioned in the song, ""The Deadwood Stage""?" A: HENRY MILLER
Q: The ore, cassiterite, is the chief source of which metal? A: TIN
Q: The percheron, a breed of heavy carthorse, originated in which country? A: FRANCE
Q: What is the name of the character, consisting of two dots, placed over a vowel, especially in German, which changes the sound of that vowel in pronunciation? A: UMLAUT
Q: On November 1st 1914, which naval battle took place in the South Atlantic, in which a squadron of British ships were routed by the Germans, under Maximilian von Spee? A: CORONEL
Q: Which of the four U.S. Presidents carved into Mt. Rushmore is wearing spectacles? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: "The third movement of Debussy's ""Suite Bergamasque"" is better known by which name?" A: CLAIR DE LUNE
Q: "In the 1997 film, ""Independence Day"", which actor played the part of the US President?" A: BILL PULLMAN
Q: "Which group had a UK No I hit in 1967 with their song, ""Massachusetts""?" A: THE BEE GEES
Q: The Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland is made up from which type of rock? A: BASALT
Q: Which country lies between Zaire to the north and Namibia to the South? A: ANGOLA
Q: What was destroyed at Bamiyan on the orders of the Taliban in 2001? A: STATUES OF BUDDHA
Q: .North Yorkshire in terms of area is England's largest county. Which is the second largest? A: CUMBRIA
Q: Who wrote Sergeant Musgrave's Dance? A: JOHN ARDEN
Q: Which one of Harold Wilson's peers went to jail for fraud? A: LORD KAGAN
Q: On which River does Pittsburgh stand? A: OHIO
Q: In which year did Fidel Castro come to power in Cuba? A: 1959
Q: Fritz Kreisler who died in 1962, was a virtuoso on which musical instrument? A: THE VIOLIN
Q: Which TV serial of 1984 was based on the Raj Quartet novels by Paul Scott? A: THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN
Q: What is the full name of the Super 12 Rugby Union side, from Canterbury, New Zealand? A: CRUSADERS
Q: "In which 1950 film, did Howard Keel and Betty Hutton sing the duet, ""Anything you can do""?" A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: Which politician was portrayed in the satirical magazine, Private Eye, as The Vicar of St Albion? A: TONY BLAIR
Q: Which foodstuff is made by coagulating soy milk, and pressing the resultant curd into blocks? A: TOFU
Q: Tannenberg and The Masurian Lakes, were early battles in which war? A: WORLD WAR I
Q: Which country in S. E. Asia consists of 17,508 islands, one of the larger ones being Sulawesi? A: INDONESIA
Q: "Who composed the music for the ballet, ""Petrushka""?" A: IGOR STRAVINSKY
Q: A portrait of the Duke of Wellington, by which artist, was stolen from the National Gallery in London in 1961, and recovered four years later? A: FRANCISCO GOYA
Q: The premiere of which ballet by Stravinsky, in Paris in 1913, provoked a riot among the audience? A: THE RITE OF SPRING
Q: In which American, science fiction TV series of the 1990's, did Jennifer Lien play the part of Kes? A: STARTREK, VOYAGER
Q: Of which common item was a Daguerreotype an early example? A: A PHOTOGRAPH
Q: "Jean Alexander played which part in the TV series, ""Last of the Summer Wine""?" A: AUNTIE WAINWRIGHT
Q: Antietam and Fredericksburg were high casualty battles in which war? A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: For whose murder was James Hanratty hanged in 1962, a case which became known as the A6 murder? A: MICHAEL GREGSTEN
Q: What name is given to the cooked and clarified butter, much used in Indian cuisine? A: GHEE
Q: "In the song ""Anything you can do"", despite the many claims of their achievements, which task did both hero and heroine confess to be unable to do?" A: BAKE A PIE
Q: What is the full name of the Australian National Rugby League team from Melbourne? A: (MELBOURNE) STORM
Q: "Which knighted British composer wrote the musical score for the 1957 film, ""Bridge on the River Kwai""?" A: MALCOLM ARNOLD
Q: Maureen Cox was the first wife of which famous musical personality? A: RINGO STARR
Q: In Egyptian mythology, who was the God of the Sky, depicted as a man with the head of a falcon? A: HORUS
Q: The three Chappell brothers, who played test cricket for Australia, were the grandsons of which Australian test cricketer, who captained his country in the 1930's? A: VIC RICHARDSON
Q: "Stephen Dedalus, is the main character and fictional alter ego of which author, in the 1916 book, ""Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man""?" A: JAMES JOYCE
Q: "Which American folk singer / songwriter, wrote the classic songs, ""Where have all the flowers gone"", and ""Turn, Turn, Turn""?" A: PETE SEEGER
Q: General Manuel Noriega, was overthrown in 1989, as leader of which Central American country? A: PANAMA
Q: To which family of birds does the brambling belong? A: FINCHES
Q: Which music hall actor invented the character of Old Mother Riley, a part he was to play in 16 films? A: ARTHUR LUCAN
Q: What word is used to describe a small, square tile of stone or glass, used in mosaics? A: TESSERA
Q: What word is used to describe a text, written for and set to music, in an opera? A: LIBRETTO
Q: "Part of the plot of the novel, ""Lorna Doone"", revolves around which famous English battle?" A: BATTLE OF SEDGEMOOR
Q: In flowering plants, what name is given to the terminal part of a stamen, where pollen is produced? A: THE ANTHER
Q: Peggy Seeger, half sister to the American folk singer Pete Seeger, was the third wife of which British poet, playwright and folk singer? A: EWAN MacCOLL
Q: "Although Stephen Dedalus is an important character in James Joyce's novel, ""Ulysses"", who is, in fact, the main character in the story?" A: LEOPOLD BLOOM
Q: When he won the US Open in 2005, which man became only the second New Zealander, after Bob Charles, to win one of golf's major championships? A: MICHAEL CAMPBELL
Q: Which is the most popular deity in Indian culture? Known as the Lord of Obstacles, this god is depicted as having the head of an elephant? A: GANESH
Q: Lake Edward in Africa, was renamed after which tyrannical African leader in the 1970's, the lake reverting to its original name, after he was overthrown? A: IDI AMIN
Q: Who is the very famous, yet estranged, actress daughter of actor, Jon Voight? A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: "What number links the characters played by Patrick McGoohan in ""The Prisoner"" and Tricia Helfer in ""Battlestar Galactica""?" A: Six
Q: "Which London-born novelist/journalist, of German parentage, wrote ""Everything You Know"" and ""Notes on a Scandal""?" A: Zoe Heller
Q: Mark Anthony and Cleopatra VII, were defeated at which 31 BC battle? A: Actium
Q: Which Football League Two team play home games at Adams Park? A: Wycombe Wanderers
Q: Who was the UN General Secretary from 1961-1971? A: U Thant
Q: "Ryan Thomas plays which ""Coronation Street"" character?" A: Jason Grimshaw
Q: "Which US singer/songwriter recorded the albums ""The Heart of Saturday Night"", ""Heartattack and Vine"", ""Swordfishtrombones"", etc?" A: Tom Waits
Q: Which Midlands town links Rupert Brooke and William Webb Ellis A: Rugby
Q: Galileo discovered the four largest moons of which planet in 1610? A: Jupiter
Q: "Who wrote the symphonic poem ""Finlandia""?" A: Jean Sibelius
Q: Jonathan lve is noted as the principal designer of which portable media player? A: The iPod
Q: In Greek myth, who divested himself of his 'curse' in the River Pactolus? A: King Midas
Q: Larry Page and Sergey Brin were co-founders of which Internet tool? A: Google
Q: The Ford Cortina and Ford Taunus were predecessors of which model? A: Ford Sierra
Q: What alcoholic spirit is made from at least 90% of the Ugni Blanc grape? A: Cognac
Q: Vermiculture is the farming of what? A: Worms
Q: "Which comic duo first appeared together in TV's ""The Frost Report""?" A: The Two Ronnies
Q: The University of Paris (La Sorbonne) was founded in which century? A: Thirteenth
Q: "Which British writer, of Bangladeshi origin, wrote ""Brick Lane"", and ""Alentejo Blue""?" A: Monica Ali
Q: Who was the Emperor of Rome at the time of the Great Fire in AD 64? A: Nero
Q: Which Football League One team play home games at Huish Park? A: Yeovil Town
Q: "Who portrays Kara Tointon in TV's ""Eastenders""?" A: Dawn Swann
Q: "Which Irish-born singer/songwriter released the albums ""Astral Weeks"", ""What's Wrong With This Picture"", ""Magic Time"", etc?" A: Van Morrison
Q: Which English city links Cary Grant and W. G. Grace? A: Bristol
Q: "Who wrote the national march of the USA, ""The Stars and Stripes Forever""?" A: John Philip Sousa
Q: Which company produces The Walkman and AIBO electronic dog? A: Sony
Q: Which former Home Secretary is MP for Norwich South? A: Charles Clarke
Q: Drinking from the River Lethe causes what? A: Forgetfulness
Q: Jeff Bezos launched which online shop in 1995? A: Amazon
Q: Who, from 1951-1969, was the only King of Libya? A: Idris
Q: "In which year did The Beatles release the film ""Yellow Submarine""; Alec Rose arrives back in Portsmouth; the last steam passenger train service runs in Britain ." A: 1968
Q: Who was the first English goalkeeper transferred for £1 million (1989)? A: Nigel Martyn
Q: Spanish law states which fortified wine must come from the Jerez province? A: Sherry
Q: Colne Valley Railway and Waltham Abbey are in which English county? A: Essex
Q: "Which comic trio first appeared in radio's ""I'm Sorry, I'll Read That Again""?" A: The Goodies
Q: Which Italian university was founded circa 1088? A: Bologna
Q: Which gem variety is an aluminium oxide with the formula Al203? A: Sapphire
Q: The Prime Minister's Question Time is held on which weekday? A: Wednesday
Q: From which country does LEGO originate? A: DENMARK
Q: In the Beverly Hillbillies what is the name of Milburn Drysdale's Secretary? A: JANE HATHAWAY
Q: In the 1991 film, if Geena Davis played Thelma, who played the part of Louise? A: SUSAN SARANDON
Q: Paul McCartney and Wings provided the title song for which 1973 James Bond film? A: LIVE AND LET DIE
Q: Although the island of Corfu is part of Greece, its north eastern tip lies just off the coast of which other country? A: ALBANIA
Q: "In the 1980's, on which TV game show did Leslie Crowther proclaim, ""Come on Down""?" A: THE PRICE IS RIGHT
Q: "Who has written a series of novels, entitled ""The Dark Tower"", of which the first, in 1982, was entitled, ""The Gunslinger""?" A: STEPHEN KING
Q: The metallic element, Lutetium, is named after the Latin name of which European capital city? A: PARIS
Q: Bandleaders Benny Goodman and Woody Herman both normally played which instrument? A: THE CLARINET
Q: "Which English racecourse, dubbed ""The Home of National Hunt Racing"", is situated in Prestbury Park?" A: CHELTENHAM
Q: Name the 1956 film, in which Kirk Douglas portrayed the artist Vincent Van Gogh. A: LUST FOR LIFE
Q: Which actor, born in Prescot in 1757, was the brother of famous actress Sarah Siddons? A: JOHN PHILIP KEMBLE
Q: "Which artist did Charlton Heston portray in the 1965 film, ""The Agony and the Ecstasy""?" A: MICHELANGELO
Q: The cluster of stars, known as The Pleiades, lies in which constellation? A: TAURUS
Q: "In 1926, which American bandleader, the self-dubbed, ""King of Jazz"", hired, and thus helped launch the career of singer Bing Crosby?" A: PAUL WHITEMAN
Q: Although the Dodecanese Islands are part of Greece, they lie just a few miles off the coast of which other country? A: TURKEY
Q: If a couple have been married for thirty years, which wedding anniversary will they celebrate? A: PEARL
Q: "What was the name of the song, sung by Carly Simon, which was used as the theme song for the 1977 James Bond film, ""The Spy Who Loved Me""?" A: NOBODY DOES IT BETTER
Q: "Which action in World War H, had the code name, ""Operation Dynamo""?" A: EVACUATION FROM DUNKIRK
Q: Who is the only West Indian bowler to take over 500 wickets in Test cricket? A: COURTNEY WALSH
Q: What name is given to the particle in an atom which carries a negative charge? A: AN ELECTRON
Q: In Greek mythology, who nightly swam the Hellespont to meet his lover? A: LEANDER
Q: There are two cathedrals in Dublin, Christ Church and St Patrick's, neither belonging to the Roman Catholic faith. To which minority faith do they belong? A: THE CHURCH OF IRELAND
Q: Which 1970's American TV detective series, was created by film writer Abby Mann? A: KOJAK
Q: Which current cabinet minister is the Labour M.P. for Redditch? A: JACQUI SMITH
Q: Which wine was traditionally transported downriver in Rabelo boats? A: PORT
Q: On winning the US Masters in 2003, which man became the only Canadian to win one of golf's major titles? A: MIKE WEIR
Q: What name is given to the series of narrative poems by Lord Tennyson, which retells the legend of Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table? A: IDYLLS OF THE KING
Q: "Which 15th century English writer compiled some French and English Arthurian legends, and added work of his own, under the title of ""Le Morte d'Arthur""?" A: SIR THOMAS MALORY
Q: Prior to Padraig Harrington in 2008, who was the last European golfer to win two of golf's major titles in the same season? A: NICK FALDO
Q: Ruth Kelly, who announced in September 2008, that she is stepping down from the cabinet to spend more time with her family, has been an MP in which northern town since 1997? A: BOLTON
Q: "Which American TV legend produced the detective series, ""FBI"", ""Cannon"" and ""Barnaby Jones""?" A: QUINN MARTIN
Q: "Which common pastoral plant, has the botanical name ""trifolium repens""?" A: (WHITE) CLOVER
Q: "Which composer, born in Pesaro in Italy in 1792, based his opera, ""The Barber of Seville"" on the trilogy by French playwright, Pierre de Beaumarchais?" A: ROSSINI
Q: The Musee d'Orsay, in Paris, which houses many great impressionist paintings, was originally designed as what sort of building? A: A RAILWAY STATION
Q: "The adjective ""cervine"", is used when pertaining to which animal?" A: THE DEER
Q: According to tradition, the Greek mythological monsters, Scylla and Charybdis, menaced seafarers in which stretch of water? A: STRAITS OF MESSINA
Q: The atomic number of a chemical element, is determined by the numbers of which particle, in its nucleus? A: THE PROTON
Q: Courtney Walsh first played cricket for which county side in England in 1984, remaining with them until 1998? A: GLOUCESTERSHIRE
Q: Which film star did Elvis Presley's daughter, Lisa Marie, marry in August 2002? He filed for divorce just 108 days later. A: NICHOLAS CAGE
Q: Who is currently the Secretary General of the United Nations? A: BAN KI-MOON
Q: In heraldry, which word describes the right hand side of the shield? A: Dexter
Q: What was the nationality of aircraft designer Anthony Fokker? A: Dutch
Q: Who became heir to the throne of France as a result of the Treaty of Troyes in 1420? A: Henry V of England
Q: Which Daily Mirror journalist wrote for many years under the pen name of Cassandra? A: William Connor
Q: Which year saw the very first Edinburgh Festival? A: 1947
Q: Which biblical city was the capital of Assyria and was sacked by the Babylonians and the Medes in 612BC? A: Nineveh
Q: Bungay Castle is in which English county? A: Suffolk
Q: "Who was the male star of the film ""Man Of La Mancha""?" A: Peter O'Toole
Q: Which long running television detective series is based upon the novels of Caroline Graham? A: Midsomer Murders
Q: Besides China and Cambodia, which other country has a border with Vietnam? A: Laos
Q: In Italian, the word Duomo means which building? A: Cathedral
Q: Who is the Roman equivalent of the Greek god Poseidon? A: Neptune
Q: Who most famously had a horse name Bucephalus? A: Alexander the Great
Q: What is the name of the currency used in Sudan? A: Pound
Q: Who wrote the novel Cannery Row? A: John Steinbeck
Q: If you have committed regicide who would you have killed? A: A King
Q: In heraldry which word describes an animal with its body resting on its leg and with its head raised? A: Couchant
Q: What was the forename of writer Proust (1871-1922)? A: Marcel
Q: In which modern day country is the birthplace of the geneticist Gregor Mendel? A: Czech Republic
Q: What are Fly in Nevada, USA, El Tatio in Chile and Strokker in Iceland? A: Geysers
Q: Who composed the orchestral pieces the Lark Ascending and The Pilgrim's Progress? A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: Around 1503, who painted the Coronation of the Virgin, now to be found in the Vatican museum? A: Raphael
Q: In the bible the book of Lamentations is ascribed to which of the prophets? A: Jeremiah
Q: Who directed the film version of the musical Hair? A: Milos Forman
Q: Which Prime Minister twice succeeded J Ramsay Macdonald? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: Which fictional Police Officer was created by M C Beaton? A: Hamish Macbeth
Q: Who was the last king of ancient Rome? A: Tarquin the Proud
Q: In Geography, one time zone usually represents how many degrees of longitude? A: 15
Q: Who wrote the novel Vile Bodies? A: Evelyn Waugh
Q: "What was being advertised by Lorraine Chase when she used the words ""Nah, Luton Airport""" A: Campari
Q: What was the code name for the bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945? A: Little Boy
Q: Who won the FA Cup in 1923, the year it was first played at Wembley? A: Bolton Wanderers
Q: What type of fruit is a 'James Grieve'? A: Apple
Q: Will's Neck is the highest point in which range of hills? A: Quantocks
Q: Which TV comic character worked for Radio Norwich? A: Alan Partridge
Q: The SWALEC Stadium will become a Test cricket ground in 2009, in which town or city is it? A: Cardiff
Q: Which language is common to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism? A: Sanskrit
Q: How many seats are there in the US Senate? A: 100
Q: Which video game involves the main character in a search for 3 'Scions' with the final action taking place in the great pyramid of Atlantis? A: Tomb Raider
Q: Many betting odds have nicknames e.g. 5/1 is a 'handful', what odds are known as 'cockle'? A: 10/1
Q: What did Hubert Cecil Booth first patent in 1902? A: Vacuum Cleaner
Q: In which part of the British Isles is Carisbrooke Castle? A: Isle of Wight
Q: Which actor was a Dad's Army regular and also appeared in the film 'Ben Hur'? A: John le Mesurier
Q: Who wrote the sonnet 'How do I love thee'? A: Elizabeth Barrett-Browning
Q: The LHC has been built to research nuclear physics, for what does the H stand? A: Hadron
Q: Bourbon whisky is named after a county in which US state? A: Kentucky
Q: Who had a UK number 1 hit in 1955 with the song 'Stranger in Paradise'? A: Tony Bennett
Q: Which video game is set in Liberty City? A: Grand Theft Auto
Q: Dolomite is an ore of which metal? A: Magnesium
Q: Who is MP for Hampstead and Highgate? A: Glenda Jackson
Q: In which English county is Framlingham Castle? A: Suffolk
Q: Celtic Crusaders join the Rugby League Superleague in 2009, in which town or city is the club based? A: Bridgend
Q: To within 10 either way, how many seats are there in the US House of Representatives? A: 435
Q: Who wrote the poem 'Not waving but drowning'? A: Stevie Smith
Q: What is the common name of the fruit Prunus Armeniaca? A: Apricot
Q: What was the official residence of the monarch between 1698 and 1837? A: St James Palace
Q: The site of the Battle of Flodden Field is in which county? A: Northumberland
Q: Published in 1826 whose song, a rendition of 'Ave Maria', is classified as Opus 52 no 6? A: Schubert
Q: Which 1966 western featured the characters Tuco, Blondie and Angel Eyes? A: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly
Q: Which rock 'n roll icon had a US and UK hit in 1956 with 'Long Tall Sally'? A: Little Richard
Q: According to mythology, who was rescued by Perseus after being chained to a rock as a sacrifice? A: Andromeda
Q: The Bryce Canyon and Zion National Parks are in which US state? A: Utah
Q: What is the fruit of the shrub/plant Rubus Idaeus? A: Raspberry
Q: Who directed the film 'Good Morning Vietnam'? A: Barry Levinson
Q: Robert the Bruce is buried in which town? A: Dunfermline
Q: Which of the former eastern bloc countries, now a member of the EU is the only one to have adopted the euro as its currency? A: Slovenia
Q: Sir Thomas Bertram owns which estate in an 1814 novel? A: Mansfield Park
Q: The site of the Battle of Naseby is in which county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: The LHC is operated by the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, by what initials is this organisation known? A: CERN
Q: Whose Law states that equal volumes of gases at the same temperature and pressure contain equal numbers of molecules? A: Avogadro
Q: A biography of which pop group was subtitled 'The World's First Supergroup'? A: Cream
Q: On which island did St John write Revelations? A: Patmos
Q: "What type of precious stone is the ""Star of India""?" A: A SAPPHIRE
Q: Which Mediterranean island is associated with the Greek goddess of love, Aphrodite? A: CYPRUS
Q: Which chocolate bar, has had its name changed to 'Snickers'? A: MARATHON
Q: What is the American equivalent of the 'Financial Times'? A: WALL STREET JOURNAL
Q: Which radio comedian's catch-phrase was 'right monkey'? A: AL READ
Q: In which country would you find the holy city of the Islamic religion, Mecca? A: SAUDI ARABIA
Q: "In the story of ""Alice in Wonderland"", what kind of creature did Alice find on top of a toadstool, smoking a hookah?" A: A CATERPILLAR
Q: Jezebel, was the wife of which biblical King? A: AHAB
Q: What was the Christian name of the Spanish painter Goya? A: FRANCISCO
Q: Which model of Rolls-Royce motor car has the same name as a bomber aircraft? A: PHANTOM
Q: Which Belgian city hosted the 1920 summer Olympics? A: ANTWERP
Q: "What physical disability is highlighted in the film ""Children of a Lesser God""?" A: DEAFNESS
Q: "Which town is ""celebrated"" in the song ""Dirty Old Town""?" A: SALFORD
Q: "What was the forename of the French Painter ""Manet""?" A: EDOUARD
Q: "In ""Alice in Wonderland"" when the Cheshire Cat disappears what is left behind?" A: ITS GRIN
Q: "Which comedian founded the satirical magazine ""Private Eye""?" A: PETER COOK
Q: "In Stevenson's classic book, ""Treasure Island"" who was the captain of the Hispaniola""?" A: CAPTAIN SMOLLETT
Q: Who founded an airline in the 1930s in the USA, which developed into the modern company TWA (Trans-World Airlines)? A: HOWARD HUGHES
Q: The largest department store in the world is in New York City, what is its name? A: MACY'S
Q: What word, other than blackmail, is used to describe the criminal offence of demanding money with menaces? A: EXTORTION
Q: Which sign of the zodiac is represented by a mythical centaur? A: SAGITTARIUS
Q: "In the film ""The Absent-Minded professor"" what substance was invented by Fred MacMurray?" A: FLUBBER
Q: "The ""Nimrod"" reconnaissance aircraft is based on which former passenger aircraft?" A: THE COMET
Q: Io is one of the moons of which planet? A: JUPITER
Q: "Which actor founded London's ""Mermaid"" Theatre?" A: BERNARD MILES
Q: Who is the only British monarch to have had an Epsom Derbywinner during his/her reign? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Which lake was created by the building of the Aswan High Dam on the Nile in the 1960s? A: LAKE NASSER
Q: "Which local golf course is properly called ""Royal Liverpool""?" A: HOYLAKE
Q: Which creature has a chemical in its saliva which prevents blood from clotting? A: VAMPIRE BAT
Q: "In the Aintree Grand National, how many fences are jumped before one reached ""Beecher's Brook"" for the first time?" A: FIVE
Q: Which film brought John Mills his only Oscar? A: RYAN'S DAUGHTER
Q: Which county cricket team won the championship six times in the 20th century, although their last outright success was in 1934? A: Lancashire
Q: "Name the piece of classical music associated with the advertising slogan ""Happiness is a cigar called Hamlet""?" A: Air on a G String
Q: Which lake was formed by the damming of the Zambezi River? A: Kariba
Q: The Babington Plot was intended to dethrone which English monarch? A: Elizabeth I
Q: John Torode and Gregg Wallace are the judges on which TV programme? A: Masterchef
Q: In which Mississippi town was Elvis Presley born? A: Tupelo
Q: Lawrence Fox plays the sidekick of which TV detective? A: Lewis
Q: Lawrence Fox married which actress in January 2008? A: Billie Piper,
Q: Which lake was formed by the building of the Hoover Dam? A: Mead
Q: Which English knight helped put Henry 4th on the throne but later rebelled and was killed at the Battle of Shrewsbury in 1403? A: Sir Henry Percy
Q: Name the composer born in Germany in 1685, he settled in England in 1712, was naturalised English in 1727 and died in London in 1759? A: Handel
Q: Which is the largest member of the crow family? A: Raven
Q: What is the name of Shakespeare's 'Merchant of Venice'? A: Antonio
Q: Which team beat Glasgow Rangers in the 2008 UEFA Cup Final played at the City of Manchester Stadium? A: Zenit St Petersburg
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain for just seven months from October 1922 to May 1923? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: 2007 was the 75th anniversary of the mass trespass on which Peak District hill, an action that led to the formation of the Rambler's Association? A: Kinder Scout
Q: In mythology, which son of Zeus was immersed up to his neck in water which he could not drink and surrounded by fruits which were eternally out of reach? A: Tantalus
Q: "Of whom did Winston Churchill say ""In defeat unbeatable, in victory unbearable""?" A: Field Marshal Montgomery
Q: Which county cricket team waited until 1979 before their first county championship title but won it five more times by 1992? A: Essex
Q: Which 1969 film told the story of contestants in a 1920s dance marathon, the title is also that of a 1977 top 20 hit for Racing Cars? A: They Shoot Horses Don't They?
Q: What is the surname of retail guru Mary featured in the TV series 'Mary Queen of Shops'? A: Portas
Q: What are 'hairstreaks' and 'skippers'? A: Butterflies
Q: Which member of the crow family has a grey head? A: Jackdaw
Q: What is the name of the famous cartoon strip drawn by Jim Davis? A: Garfield
Q: Name the composer born in Russia in 1882, he became a French citizen in 1934, and an American citizen in 1945, he died in New York City in 1971? A: Stravinsky
Q: Sir Anthony Mamo, who died in May 2008, was the first President of which European country, from 1974 to 1976? A: Malta
Q: On which island in the Thames was Magna Carta signed in 1215? A: Runnymede
Q: In which Texas town was Buddy Holly born? A: Lubbock
Q: Joan of Arc was burnt at the stake in which French city? A: Rouen
Q: Which European country gave votes to woman for the first time as recently as 1976? A: Portugal
Q: Sauce Bigarade is made with which fruit? A: Oranges
Q: What is the name of the famous cartoon strip drawn by Scott Adams? A: Dilbert
Q: Which historical figure was executed by emasculation, evisceration and beheading at Smithfield in 1305? A: WILLIAM WALLACE
Q: Clun Forest lies in which English county? A: SHROPSHIRE
Q: In a Chinese restaurant, what does a diner get if he orders wonton? A: DUMPLINGS
Q: "In the TV series, ""To the Manor Born"", which character was played by actress, Angela Thorne?" A: MARJORY
Q: "Which car manufacturer produces a model called ""Legacy""?" A: SUBARU
Q: "The horse races, ""The Cambridgeshire"" and ""The Cesarewitch"" are grouped together under which title?" A: THE AUTUMN DOUBLE
Q: Who played the part of Norman Bates in the 1998 version of the film,'Psycho'? A: VINCE VAUGHAN
Q: What is the occupation of Silas Marner, in the book by George Eliot? A: A WEAVER
Q: What name is given to any of the six administrative districts of the Isle of Man? A: A SHEADING
Q: What anatomical name is given to the bones of human fingers and toes? A: PHALANGES
Q: Due to his flamboyant style, which nickname was attributed to the conductor, Sir Malcolm Sargent? A: FLASH HARRY
Q: Which part of the human body has the anatomical name axilla? A: THE ARMPIT
Q: Billy Bigelow and Julie Jordan are characters in which stage and screen musical? A: CAROUSEL
Q: What is the occupation of Adam Bede in the book by George Eliot? A: A CARPENTER
Q: "Which actor, who first played Geoffrey Shawcross in the TV series, ""Hetty Wainthropp Investigates"", played the part of Merry in the ""Lord of the Rings"" films?" A: DOMINIC MONAGHAN
Q: Genuine Moroccan leather is made from the hide of which animal? A: THE GOAT
Q: "Which car manufacturer produces the ""Grand Vitara"", 4 x 4 model?" A: SUZUKI
Q: "In the early episodes of the TV series, ""To the Manor Born"", what was the surname of the character, Audrey, played by Penelope Keith?" A: FFORBES-HAMILTON
Q: The cartoon character, Glenda Slagg, the First Lady of Fleet St., appeared in which satirical magazine? A: PRIVATE EYE
Q: Which vegetable, popular in Chinese dishes, is obtained from the stem of the Bulrush? A: WATER CHESTNUTS
Q: In which English county is Savernake Forest? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Which U.S. City is served by O'Hare International airport? A: CHICAGO
Q: "Which Australian bowler was named ""Player of the Tournament"", at the end of the 2007 Cricket World Cup?" A: GLEN McGRATH
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is the largest in our Solar System? A: GANYMEDE
Q: Calpurnia was the third and last wife of which famous historical character? A: JULIUS CAESAR
Q: Helen Clark is currently the Prime Minister of which Commonwealth country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: "The film musical, ""Cabaret"" was based on the short novel, ""Goodbye to Berlin"", written in the 1930's by which British author?" A: CHRISTOPHER ISHERWOOD
Q: Actress/singer, Millicent Martin was married to which pop singer from 1958-65? A: RONNIE CARROLL
Q: Which flower has varieties named, Dorothy Perkins, Grandpa Dickson and Iceberg? A: THE ROSE
Q: What is the name of the French style soup made with pureed leeks, onions and potatoes, chicken stock and cream and traditionally served cold? A: VICHYSSOISE
Q: What was the title of the TV series, which starred Jasper Carrott as Bob Louis and Robert Powell as Dave Briggs? A: THE DETECTIVES
Q: Victoria is the capital of which group of islands in the Indian Ocean? A: THE SEYCHELLES
Q: "Who directed the films, ""Bugsy Malone"" (1976) and Midnight Express (1978)?" A: ALAN PARKER
Q: What is the name of the ground, in Belfast, on which the Ulster Rugby Union team play their home matches? A: RAVENHILL
Q: "Who directed the films, ""The Terminator"" (1984) and ""Titanic"" (1997)?" A: JAMES CAMERON
Q: What is the capital and largest city of the Fijian Islands? A: SUVA
Q: What was the title of the 1960's American TV series, which starred Richard Boone as a gentleman turned gunfighter named Paladin? A: HAVE GUN, WILL TRAVEL
Q: What is the flavour of the Spanish soups Gazpacho and Salmorejo, which are traditionally served chilled? A: TOMATO
Q: Which popular garden flower has classes which include regular and irregular incurves, reflex, decorative and pompon? A: CHRYSANTHEMUMS
Q: Wigan Rugby League player Chris Mather and management consultant, Patrick King, were both, at one time or another, married to which TV personality? A: CAROL VORDERMAN
Q: Who is currently the Prime Minister of Australia? A: KEVIN RUDD
Q: Valeria Messalina was the third wife of which Roman emperor? A: CLAUDIUS
Q: Which moon of Jupiter is the most volcanic body in our Solar System? A: IO
Q: Which Oswaldtwistle born weaver and carpenter invented the Spinning Jenny in the 18th century? A: JAMES HARGREAVES
Q: Which part of the human body is referred to by the adjective, renal? A: THE KIDNEYS
Q: In Greek mythology, who was, tragically, both the mother and wife of Oedipus? A: JOCASTA
Q: In which year did the demolition of the Berlin Wall begin? A: 1989
Q: What was the nickname of President Duvalier of Haiti who died in 1971? A: Papa Doc
Q: "Who wrote ""The Hunt for Red October""?" A: Tom Clancy
Q: "Which rock star is nicknamed ""Slowhand""?" A: Eric Clapton
Q: Which current Broadway musical has a Japanese therapist character called Christmas Eve? A: Avenue Q
Q: In which country was the dance the Polka invented? A: Poland
Q: It is illegal in England to eat what on Christmas Day? A: Mince pies
Q: Hollyoaks is set in a fictional suburb of which British city? A: Chester
Q: Which word is used for the traditional Mafia code of silence in Sicily? A: Omertà
Q: Who founded the Salvation Army? A: William Booth
Q: Which Egyptian president ordered the seizure of the Suez Canal in 1956? A: Nasser
Q: "What was the name of the store in ""Are You Being Served?""?" A: Grace Brothers
Q: "Who was the ""Last King of Scotland"" in the film of that name?" A: Idi Amin
Q: What was the surname of Del Boy in Only Fools and Horses? A: Trotter
Q: What are candle wicks most commonly made from? A: Cotton
Q: In which island group is the oil terminal of Sullom Voe? A: Shetlands
Q: Photophobia is a fear of what? A: Light
Q: Who played the outlaw Josey Wales in the 1976 film? A: Clint Eastwood
Q: Which UK football team plays home games at the Stadium of Light? A: Sunderland
Q: In 1979 which English art historian was exposed as a one-time Soviet spy? A: Anthony Blunt
Q: Which Irish boxer was nicknamed the Clones Cyclone? A: Barry McGuigan
Q: Which Wild West legend was born Henry McCarty? A: Billy The Kid
Q: Social reformer Frank Pakenham was better known as whom? A: Lord Longford
Q: In which city did Richard Wagner die in 1883? A: Venice
Q: Who designed London's Regents Park in 1811? A: John Nash
Q: Which widely known song was composed by one-time docker Jim Connell in 1889 on a No 28 London bus? A: The Red Flag
Q: Who sang the theme song of the film High Noon? A: Tex Ritter
Q: What gives Earl Grey tea its distinctive flavour? A: Oil of bergamot
Q: In which country does football team Penarol play? A: Uruguay
Q: What was pasteurisation first used to process? A: Wine
Q: Who wrote the screenplay of Chariots of Fire? A: Colin Welland
Q: What was the occupation of The Admiral's Men? A: Actors
Q: With Sellers, Seacombe and Milligan, who was generally thought of as 'the fourth Goon'? A: Michael Bentine
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Caliban appear? A: The Tempest
Q: Who regularly delivered the monologue 'Albert and the Lion'? A: Stanley Holloway
Q: Tom Quad is part of which Oxford college? A: Christ Church
Q: Who played John Wilder in TV's The Plane Makers? A: Patrick Wymark
Q: How many gates are there on the Thames Barrier? A: Ten
Q: What was Alan Sugar's catchphrase during the TV series The Apprentice? A: YOU'RE FIRED
Q: Who has the nickname of the thinking man's crumpet? A: JOAN BAKEWELL
Q: What musical instrument does jazz musician Courtney Pine primarily play? A: SAXOPHONE
Q: In which country will the 2010 FIFA World Cup be held? A: South Africa
Q: Who, in Greek myth, was the daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, sacrificed at Aulis by her father to ensure a safe passage to Troy? A: Iphigenia
Q: Which luxury car manufacturer produces the Vantage? A: Aston Martin
Q: "Which chemical element (atomic number 15) derives its name from the Greek for ""light bearing""?" A: Phosphorus
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the line ""The course of true love never did run smooth"" come?" A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: Who presents 'Any Questions' on BBC Radio 4? A: Jonathan Dimbleby
Q: Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak in Africa, is in which country? A: Tanzania
Q: Which day of the week features in the title of a novel by G K Chesterton? A: Thursday
Q: For what does the W stand in the name of Rev W Awdry, creator of Thomas the Tank Engine? A: Wilbert
Q: In cookery, what is the main flavouring of aioli? A: Garlic
Q: In which country will the 2010 Winter Olympic Games be held? A: Canada
Q: Which luxury car marque produces the Veyron? A: Bugatti
Q: Of which Verdi opera is Violetta the heroine? A: La Traviata
Q: "From which Shakespeare play does the, line ""I am a man more sinned against than sinning"" come?" A: King Lear
Q: Who created the Garfield cartoon strip? A: Jim Davis
Q: Of which Puccini opera is Mimi the heroine? A: La Bohème
Q: In cookery, which herb is the traditional main ingredient of pesto? A: Basil
Q: In the Bible who was the mother of John the Baptist? A: Elizabeth
Q: Who won a Best Actor Oscar in 1993 for Scent of a Woman, after four previous nominations in the same category? A: Al Pacino
Q: Which is the largest organ of the human body? A: Skin
Q: Frederick Gibberd won the competition to design which Liverpool building? A: Metropolitan Cathedral of Christ the King
Q: What is the birthstone for May? A: Emerald
Q: Which tree, common in Britain, has the Latin name Larix Decidua? A: (European) Larch
Q: Which English novelist won the Nobel prize for literature in 2007? A: Doris Lessing
Q: "In physics, whose third law of motion states that ""for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction""?" A: (Isaac) Newton
Q: The Battle of Blenheim was fought during which war? A: War of the Spanish Succession
Q: The Supper at Emmaus, painted in 1601 and now part of the National Gallery's collection, is by whom? A: (Michelangelo Merisi da) Caravaggio
Q: Who created The Office and Extras with Ricky Gervais? A: Stephen Merchant
Q: Harvey Lonsdale Elmes won the competition to design which Liverpool building? A: St George's Hall
Q: In which year did the following happen - Pope John Paul II visited Britain, compact discs went on sale to the public and Grace Kelly died? A: 1982
Q: Which native British tree has the Latin name Taxus Baccata? A: (Common) Yew
Q: What is the derived SI unit of electrical resistance? A: Ohm
Q: Which English Playwright was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 2005? A: Harold Pinter
Q: The battle of Crecy was fought during which war? A: Hundred Years' War
Q: In which year did the following happen - Microsoft was registered as a trade name, Brotherhood of Man won Eurovision and Mao Zedong died? A: 1976
Q: Who created Are You Being Served and Allo Allo with David Croft? A: Jeremy Lloyd
Q: Which film franchise was based on a ride at Disney theme parks? A: Pirates of the Caribbean
Q: The Claret Jug is awarded to the winner of which competition? A: The Open Championship
Q: "What does ""su doku"" mean in English?" A: Single number
Q: b Which London landmark was designed by David Marks and Julia Barfield? A: The London Eye
Q: Politician Herbert Morrison was the grandfather of which member of Tony Blair's cabinet? A: Peter Mandelson
Q: "The aria ""La Donna e Mobile"" comes from which opera?" A: Rigoletto
Q: In which British city was composer Frederick Delius born? A: Bradford
Q: How many lines are there on the London underground railway? A: 12
Q: In Greek mythology, which youth fell in love with his own reflection? A: Narcissus
Q: I Which ocean liner rescued the majority of the Titanic's survivors? A: The Carpathia
Q: What title is given to the wife of an earl? A: Countess
Q: Marita was the codename given to the German invasion of Yugoslavia and which other country? A: Greece
Q: Who is the present King of Jordan? A: Abdullah II
Q: Which former Blue Peter presenter went on to present darts coverage on television? A: Peter Purves
Q: What name is given to a vent on a volcano that emits smoke and gas? A: Fumarole
Q: "Who composed the ""Antarctic Symphony""?" A: Ralph Vaughan Williams
Q: "Which organisation has the motto ""Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity""?" A: FBI
Q: "In which American city did Martin Luther King make his famous ""I have a dream"" speech?" A: Washington DC
Q: "b Which actor played the US president in the TV series ""The West Wing""?" A: Martin Sheen
Q: In Irish folklore what is a merrow? A: A mermaid
Q: Which university opened in Birmingham in 1966? A: Aston
Q: "Who was the court jester in Shakespeare's ""As You Like It""?" A: Touchstone
Q: What was the title of Cliff Richard's only UK number one hit during the 1970s? A: """We Don't Talk Anymore"""
Q: Who was the first Secretary General of the United Nations? A: Trygve Lie
Q: "What was the name of the character played by Geoffrey Palmer in ""Butterflies""?" A: Ben Parkinson
Q: In which British city was Europe's first purpose-built prison opened in 1786? A: Liverpool
Q: The bands R.E.M. and the B52s both come from which town in Georgia? A: Athens
Q: To which family of birds does the blackcap belong? A: Warbler
Q: Emil Zatopek won the Olympic gold medal in the marathon in 1952. In which event at the same games did his wife Dana also win gold? A: Javelin
Q: In which country was the Young Pretender Charles Edward Stuart born? A: Italy
Q: Which man-made material was first marketed in the USA in the 1950s as Dacron? A: Terylene
Q: "Who wrote the Irish classic play ""Cock A Doodle Dandy""?" A: Sean O'Casey
Q: Which Duran Duran song was the theme of a Bond film? A: """A View to a Kill"""
Q: "The song ""Send in the Clowns"" comes from which musical?" A: """A Little Night Music"""
Q: "What was the name of Honor Blackman's character in the TV series ""The Avengers""" A: Cathy Gale
Q: Who is the Speaker of the House of Commons? A: Michael Martin
Q: What name is given to the historical meeting site of King Henry VIII and King Francis I in 1520? A: The Field of the Cloth of Gold
Q: "Which actor plays the title character in the TV series ""Judge John Deed""?" A: Martin Shaw
Q: With which song did Brotherhood of Man win the 1976 Eurovision Song Contest? A: Save All Your Kisses For Me
Q: Which TV family was created by Matt Groening? A: The Simpsons
Q: Who wrote the novel 'To Kill A Mockingbird'? A: Harper Lee
Q: Who originally illustrated A A Milne's Winnie the Pooh' stories? A: E(rnest) H(oward) Shepard
Q: In Greek mythology who was the wife of Orpheus? A: Eurydice
Q: Which religion was founded by Joseph Smith in 1827? A: Mormons
Q: What is the Royal Navy rank equivalent to Air Marshal in the Royal Air Force? A: Vice Admiral
Q: For what medical condition would a doctor administer an antitussive? A: Coughs
Q: 'The Road to Xanadu' by Simon Callow is a biography of which actor? A: Orson Welles
Q: Which former Prime Minister died in 1947? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: In the place names Chipping Norton and Chipping Sodbury what does 'Chipping' mean? A: Market
Q: Sister Sledge got to number 1 in June 1985 with which song? A: Frankie
Q: Who wrote the opera 'Boris Godunov' in 1874? A: (Modest) Mussorgsky
Q: Who was editor of Private Eye before Ian Hislop? A: Richard Ingrams
Q: Which US TV cartoon features a cat and a chihuahua? A: The Ren and Stimpy Show
Q: Who wrote the book 'Trainspotting'? A: Irvine Welsh
Q: Who is the patron saint of dancers and entertainers? A: St Vitus
Q: What is the name of the Queen's bodyguard in Scotland? A: Royal Company of Archers
Q: The illustrator Donald McGill is most famous for which type of 'art' work? A: Seaside postcards
Q: Which religion was founded by Guru Nanak? A: Sikhism
Q: What is the highest rank in the Royal Air Force? A: Marshal of the Royal Air Force
Q: Which country's flag is a plain green rectangle? A: Libya
Q: What is the colour of the mineral cinnabar? A: Red
Q: Who asked Jesus 'What is truth'? A: Pontius Pilate
Q: Who dominated women's swimming in the mid-70s winning 4 gold medals in the 1976 Olympics? A: Kornelia Ender
Q: Which is England's largest castle? A: Windsor Castle
Q: What form of poem can be Petrarchan or Elizabethan depending on its structure? A: Sonnet
Q: Who was the last British Governor of Hong Kong? A: Chris Patten
Q: Phasmaphobia is the fear of what? A: Ghosts
Q: Which South American country will host the 2014 FIFA World Cup? A: Brazil
Q: Which was the first and last European colony in China? A: Macau
Q: According to Douglas Adams what number is the meaning of life? A: 42
Q: In Egyptian mythology who was the god of embalming who also watched over the dead? A: Anubis
Q: What is the lightest chemical element? A: Hydrogen
Q: What gas do all fuels need in order to burn? A: Oxygen
Q: In Roman mythology who was Chief of the gods? A: Jupiter
Q: Professor Robert Langdon is the hero in which best-selling novel? A: Da Vinci Code
Q: The flag of which country depicts an eagle devouring a snake? A: Mexico
Q: What was the name of Billy J Kramer's backing group in the 1960s? A: The Dakotas
Q: N'djamena is the capital of which country? A: Chad
Q: In which Shakespeare play would you find the character Ophelia? A: Hamlet
Q: Which country's national flag features a black two-headed eagle on a red background? A: Albania
Q: In fiction who was Don Diego de la Vega? A: Zorro
Q: What is added to gin to make a pink gin pink? A: Angostura Bitters
Q: In opera, how is the character Cio-Cio San better known? A: Madame Butterfly
Q: How many hurdles are there in a men's 110m race? A: 10
Q: Which was the first X-rated film to win an Oscar for Best Picture? A: Midnight Cowboy
Q: What was the last silent film in which Chaplin's little tramp appeared? A: Modern Times
Q: Which common male Christian name derives its name from the Greek for horse lover? A: Philip
Q: With which sport would you principally associate the commentator Ted Lowe? A: Snooker
Q: How many people take part in the dance of a quadrille? A: 8
Q: Hepatitis is the inflammation of which organ? A: Liver
Q: With which sport would you associate the commentator Sid Waddell? A: Darts
Q: How many stars are on the European Union Flag? A: 12
Q: Who as at August 2008 is the Lord Chancellor? A: Jack Straw
Q: From what is the oil lanolin obtained? A: Wool
Q: The TV series 'Angel' is-a spin off from which other A: Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Q: Which leading politician is the MP for Witney? A: David Cameron
Q: In the 1966 film 'The Good the Bad and the Ugly' who played the Ugly? A: Eli Wallach
Q: In Shakespeare who killed Macbeth? A: MacDuff
Q: What is the date of VE Day? A: 8th May
Q: What is the name of the electronic line judge at Wimbledon? A: Cyclops
Q: How many players make up a baseball team? A: 9
Q: What links the English towns of Barton and Hessle? A: The Humber Bridge
Q: In music what is a note if it is neither sharp nor flat? A: Natural
Q: In which country can the world's largest deposit of nickel be found? A: Russia
Q: Who was the mother of Helen of Troy? A: Leda
Q: Which male singer, in 2008, topped the UK/USA album charts with album 'Home before Dark'? A: Neil Diamond
Q: In the Bible, what is the fourth book of the Old Testament? A: Numbers
Q: Which composer wrote 'The Rite of Spring' in 1913? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Who wrote the books 'The Devil Wears Prada' and 'Chasing Harry Winston'? A: Lauren Weisberger
Q: On television who live at 742 Evergreen Terrace, Springfield? A: The Simpsons
Q: In which country did the rumba originate? A: Cuba
Q: What is the name of the Italian dessert made from coffee soaked biscuit, layered with sweetened cream cheese? A: Tiramisu
Q: The Eustachian tube links the pharynx to which other part of the body? A: The ear
Q: What was the name of the hardworking horse in the George Orwell book 'Animal Farm'? Its character represented the proletariat. A: Boxer
Q: What is the currency of the United Arab Emirates? A: The Dirham
Q: New Hall Prison is situated close to which English town or city? A: Wakefield
Q: Which elite car company manufacture the Carrera GT model of car? A: Porsche
Q: In geometry, how many sides does a hendecagon have? A: Eleven
Q: What is Australia's national flower? A: (Golden) Wattle
Q: What is the name of the apple-based liqueur from Normandy? A: Calvados
Q: Seoul is the capital of South Korea. What is the capital of North Korea? A: Pyongyang
Q: Who was the mother of Achilles? A: Thetis
Q: Which female singer, in 2008, topped the UK and US album charts with the album 'Spirit'? A: Leona Lewis
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Great Britain from 1923-1924? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: What is the capital of the American state of Kansas? A: Topeka
Q: In the Bible, what book comes immediately after Matthew, Mark, Luke and John? A: Acts
Q: Which composer wrote 'The Threepenny Opera' (Die Driegroschenoper) in 1928? A: Kurt Weill
Q: In which country did the tango originate? A: Argentina
Q: What was the name of the dog that belonged to the cowboy Roy Rogers? A: Bullet
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of flamingos? A: A Stand
Q: Lindholme Prison is situated dose to which English town or city? A: Doncaster
Q: What colour is a UK domestic 3 amp electrical appliance fuse? A: Red
Q: Which Mexican plant is sometimes called the Flower of the Holy Night or Mexican Flame Leaf? A: Poinsettia
Q: Who won the best actress award at the 2008 Oscar awards ceremony for her role in the film 'La Vie En Rose'? A: Marion Cotillard
Q: Who said in 1935 'Guns will make us powerful, butter will only make us fat'? A: Hermann Goering
Q: Which actor was married to Vivien Leigh and Joan Plowright? A: Sir Laurence Olivier
Q: On which river is High Force Waterfall? A: Tees
Q: Which American football team won the first Superbowl in 1967? A: Green Bay Packers
Q: In the novels by Baroness Orczy what was the real name of the Scarlet Pimpemel? A: Sir Percy Blakeney
Q: In the TV sitcom Frasier, what was the name of Martin Crane's dog? A: Eddie
Q: In which city is the HQ of Unesco? A: Paris
Q: In the Batman films, how is Oswald Chesterfield Cobblepot better known? A: The Penguin
Q: On which course is the Scottish Grand National run? A: Ayr
Q: Whose plays included 'Design for Living' and 'Present Laughter'? A: Noel Coward
Q: In which country is the Bolivar the main unit of currency? A: Venezuela
Q: How many counters does each player have in a game of backgammon? A: 15
Q: Who released an album in 1973 called Billion Dollar Babies? A: Alice Cooper
Q: Angelina Jolie is the daughter of which film actor? A: Jon Voight
Q: Which instrument did Glen Miller play? A: Trombone
Q: Sydney is the state capital of which Australian state? A: New South Wales
Q: In which religion is the Torah a sacred text? A: Judaism
Q: Of what is Vexillology the study? A: Flags
Q: "Which modem ""A"" road mainly follows the Roman road Watling Street?" A: A5
Q: What nationality was the artist Hieronymus Bosch? A: Dutch
Q: Which astronaut hit a golf ball on the moon in February 1971? A: Alan Shepard
Q: Who married Liam Gallagher in 1997? A: Patsy Kensit
Q: Who played Boromir in the film version of The Lord of the Rings directed by Peter Jackson? A: Sean Bean
Q: Who was known as the Acid Bath Murderer? A: John George Haigh
Q: In which city is the University of Warwick situated? A: Coventry
Q: What is the name of the nightclub singer who is the central character of the musical 'Cabaret'? A: Sally Bowles
Q: What was the name of the steep cliff on the Capitoline Hill in ancient Rome which was used as an execution site for murderers/traitors? A: Tarpeian Rock
Q: At which film festival is the Golden Bear awarded? A: Berlin
Q: Which fruit is used to make the drink Kirsch? A: Cherries
Q: What was the name of the gentleman thief created by E.W.Hornung? A: Raffles
Q: In the TV sitcom Rising Damp, what was the name of Rigsby's cat? A: Vienna
Q: In which city is the HQ of Interpol? A: Lyon
Q: In the Spiderman films, how is his enemy Norman Osborn better known? A: The Green Goblin
Q: Which jockey won the Derby two years running in 2003 and 2004? A: Kieron Fallon
Q: Who wrote the plays 'Forty Years On' and 'The History Boys'? A: Alan Bennett
Q: How many tiles are there in a standard Mah Jong set? A: 144
Q: Who released the 1970 album called Atom Heart Mother? A: Pink Floyd
Q: Which Star Wars actress was the daughter of Debbie Reynolds? A: Carrie Fisher
Q: Which instrument did Charlie 'Bird' Parker play? A: Saxophone
Q: What is the state capital of Queensland? A: Brisbane
Q: In which religion is the Tibetan Book of the Dead a revered text? A: Buddhism
Q: What was the name of Wellington's horse at Waterloo? A: Copenhagen
Q: Which perfume house produces Opium and Rive Gauche? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: What was the name of the dog that in 1957 became the first mammal in space? A: Laika
Q: Who succeeded Christopher Eccleston as the new Dr Who? A: David Tennant
Q: Who was England's football manager from 1947 to 1963? A: Walter Winterbottom
Q: In which city is the University of Aston situated? A: Birmingham
Q: Who is the main male character of the musical Carousel? A: Billy Bigelow
Q: To which family of birds does the fieldfare belong? A: Thrush
Q: Who was the father of Romulus and Remus? A: Mars
Q: What is the dominant flavour of the drink Curacao? A: Orange
Q: Which prison is guarded by the Dementors in the Harry Potter books? A: Azkaban
Q: What is the administrative centre of Wiltshire? A: Trowbridge
Q: "Who played the Waco Kid in the spoof Western ""Blazing Saddles""?" A: Gene Wilder
Q: In what year was the Battle of Little Bighorn? A: 1876
Q: In which novel is the character Alan Breck a fugitive from the English? A: Kidnapped
Q: What was the given name of the wife of Prime Minister Harold Wilson? A: Mary
Q: Members of the Irish Parliament have which two letters after their names? A: TD
Q: Who plays the part of Jessica Fletcher in the TV series 'Murder She Wrote'? A: Angela Lansbury
Q: Sheerness is the main town on which island in the Thames estuary? A: Sheppey
Q: In the nursery rhyme 'Oranges and Lemons', which bells sing 'I owe you five farthings'? A: St Martins
Q: Who wrote the 'Just William' books? A: Richmal Crompton
Q: What was the given name of the wife of Prime Minister James Callaghan? A: Audrey
Q: Bundesliga football team Schalke 04 plays home games in which German town or city? A: Gelsenkirchen
Q: Edward John Smith was captain of which famous ship? A: Titanic
Q: The discount supermarket chain, Aldi, has its HQ in which country? A: Germany
Q: 'Good Wives' and 'Jo's Boys' were sequels to whose most famous novel? A: Louisa May Alcott
Q: In the nursery rhyme 'Oranges and Lemons', which bells sing 'When I am rich'? A: Shoreditch
Q: Which tree is highly valued for gunstocks and decorative veneers for furniture? A: Walnut
Q: Which island in New York harbour was the processing centre for immigrants in the first half of the twentieth century? A: Ellis Island
Q: Which actor played 'Old Mother Riley'? A: Arthur Lucan
Q: Which manufacturer makes a small car called the 'Note'? A: Nissan
Q: What is the name of the TV detective played by Tony Shaloub? A: Monk
Q: Which SS commander died as a result of an assassination attempt in Prague in 1942? A: (Reinhard) Heydrich
Q: Which motorway runs from the M5 near Bromsgrove to a junction with the A44 and A42 near Burton-on-Trent? A: M42
Q: 'One Night in Bangkok' and 'I Know Him So Well' are songs from which musical? A: Chess
Q: Christopher Jones was captain of which famous ship? A: Mayflower
Q: La Liga football team Real Sociedad plays home games in which Spanish town or city? A: San Sebastian
Q: An island in the Bristol Channel gives its name to which shipping area? A: Lundy
Q: In the Bible who is the father of John the Baptist? A: Zacharias
Q: Who was the mountaineer who in 1970, together with Don Whillans, was the first person to scale the south face of Annapurna? A: Dougal Haston
Q: Which religious sect was founded by Ann Lee in Manchester in 1747? A: The Shakers
Q: The discount supermarket chain Netto has its HQ in which country? A: Denmark
Q: "Who wrote the poem 'A Subaltern's Love Song' about Miss Joan Hunter Dunn, ""Furnish'd and burnish'd by Aldershot sun""?" A: John Betjeman
Q: Georgetown is the capital of which Caribbean country? A: Guyana
Q: Members of the Welsh Assembly have which two letters after their name? A: AM
Q: On which famous motor racing track is the Mulsanne Straight? A: Le Mans
Q: What is the main ingredient of the drink 'Lassi'? A: Yoghourt
Q: England's first road congestion charge was introduced in 2002, in which city? A: Durham
Q: In 1975, which was the first city in the world to introduce congestion charges? A: Singapore
Q: The famous bridge at Avignon spans which river? A: Rhone
Q: The Barry Burn is on which famous Scottish golf course? A: Carnoustie
Q: What is lacking by definition in an anhydrous substance? A: Water
Q: Cape Trafalgar is situated in which Spanish province? A: Cadiz
Q: George Wigram, Benjamin Wills Newton and John Nelson Darby were three of the founders of which religious sect founded in south-west England in 1831? A: Plymouth Brethren
Q: The Cumberland Gap is a pass in which US mountain range? A: Appalachians
Q: In the Bible who was the father of the disciples James and John? A: Zebedee
Q: Which SS officer was nicknamed 'the Angel of Death'? A: Josef Mengele
Q: Who wrote the song 'Moon River'? A: Henry Mancini
Q: Where in the human body are the deltoid muscles? A: Shoulder
Q: In which country was the West Indian cricket captain Sir Vivian Richards born? A: Antigua
Q: The character Rick Blaine appears in which film? A: Casablanca
Q: In which American state is Edwards Air Force Base? A: California
Q: Which canal connects Inverness and Fort William? A: Caledonian Canal
Q: What is the anatomical name for the armpit? A: Axilla
Q: Cinnabar is the chief ore of which metallic element? A: Mercury
Q: Who was the singer who gave up his seat on the plane that crashed, killing Buddy Holly? A: Waylon Jennings
Q: Who was the leader of the conspirators involved in the Gunpowder Plot in 1605? A: Robert Catesby
Q: What is the name of the central keep of the Tower of London? A: White Tower
Q: Of which band was guitarist Paul 'Bonehead' Arthurs a founder member? A: Oasis
Q: Of which constellation is Deneb the brightest star? A: Cygnus
Q: A sleuth is the group name for what type of mammal? A: Bear
Q: Which US swimmer won 8 medals at the 2004 Summer Olympics, 6 of which were gold? A: Michael Phelps
Q: Which king had daughters named Cordelia, Regan and Goneril? A: King Lear
Q: What was Beethoven's only opera? A: Fidelio
Q: 'While we were marching through Georgia' is a song of the American Civil War. Which union general led the march through Georgia in 1864? A: Sherman
Q: Which Roman road ran from Lincoln to Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: In which country was West Indian cricket captain Sir Garfield Sobers born? A: Barbados
Q: What does 'Chipping' indicate in a place name such as Chipping Norton? A: Market
Q: The post-modern arts complex, built in Paris in 1977, is named after which French president? A: (Georges) Pompidou
Q: In which American state is the United States military academy at West Point? A: New York
Q: In the comedy series 'Rising Damp', what was the Christian name of Miss Jones? A: Ruth
Q: Calamine is the chief ore of which metallic element? A: Zinc
Q: Which poet wrote 'The Lady of the Lake' in 1810? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: 'The Million Dollar Quartet' was an impromptu jam session in December 1956. Elvis Presley, Carl Perkins and Jerry Lee Lewis were three taking part. Who was the fourth? A: Johnny Cash
Q: What name is given to the enclosed courtyard of a medieval castle? A: Bailey
Q: Apart from the Sun, which is the nearest star to our planet? A: Proxima Centauri
Q: What was the Christian name of the founder of the Birdseye frozen food company? A: Clarence
Q: On which Greek island are the ruins of Knossos? A: Crete
Q: Katherina Minola features in the title of which Shakespeare play? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: Michael Douglas won Best Actor Oscar in 1987 for which film? A: Wall Street
Q: What was Linda McCartney's surname before she married Paul? A: Eastman
Q: Who famously proclaimed 'Ich bin ein Berliner' on 26 June 1963? A: J F Kennedy
Q: Who was president of the Confederate States during the American Civil War? A: Jefferson Davis
Q: What was the Roman name for the city of Bath? A: Aquae Sulis
Q: In which English county is Osborne House? A: Isle of Wight
Q: In which sport is the Uber Cup presented? A: Badminton
Q: Who had a hit with the song Copacabana in 1978? A: Barry Manilow
Q: What does the prefix `xylo' mean, as in xylophone? A: Wood
Q: In which month do the London Promenade Concerts start? A: July
Q: The Swilkin Bridge is a famous feature of which Scottish golf course? A: ST ANDREWS
Q: "Who composed the ballets, ""Billy the Kid"" and ""Rodeo""?" A: AARON COPELAND
Q: "Who played Sally opposite Billy Crystal in the 1989 film, ""When Harry Met Sally""?" A: MEG RYAN
Q: "Licence plates from which U.S. state, include the phrase, ""Great Faces, Great Places""?" A: SOUTH DAKOTA
Q: "On the desk of which American President was there a sign which read, ""The Buck Stops Here""?" A: HARRY S TRUMAN
Q: "Which, chronologically, is the first of the ""Chronicles of Narnia"", although it was the sixth of the series of books written by author C. S. Lewis?" A: THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW
Q: Which transport feature disappeared from the Liverpool waterfront in 1956? A: THE OVERHEAD RAILWAY
Q: In which European city is the Pergamon Museum, which houses the Ishtar Gate? A: BERLIN
Q: On TV, which actor played the part of C.J., the boss of Reginald Perrin? A: JOHN BARRON
Q: In which U.S. TV series did Alison Janney play the part of C.J. Cregg, a press secretary? A: THE WEST WING
Q: "In which European city is the Maurithuis Museum, which houses Vermeer's, ""Girl with a Pearl Earring""?" A: THE HAGUE
Q: "The song, ""I Whistle A Happy Tune"", comes from which stage and film musical?" A: THE KING AND I
Q: "Who was the original question master on the TV quiz show, ""A Question of Sport""?" A: DAVID VINE
Q: In 1896, a short extension was built on the Liverpool Overhead Railway, from Herculaneum Dock to which final destination on the line? A: DINGLE
Q: "Which was the title of the 7th and final book in the ""Chronicles of Narnia"" by C.S. Lewis?" A: THE LAST BATTLE
Q: "Which supermarket owner coined the phrase, ""Pile 'em high, Sell 'an cheap""?" A: JACK COHEN
Q: "Licence plates from which U.S. state, include the phrase, ""Sweet Home""?" A: ALABAMA
Q: "Who composed the ballet, ""Daphnis et Chloe"" and a ""Piano Concerto for the Left Hand""?" A: MAURICE RAVEL
Q: Amen Corner is a three-hole section on the back nine of which famous American golf course? A: AUGUSTA NATIONAL
Q: In which Irish county is the district of Connemara and the town of Athenry? A: GALWAY
Q: Who is currently the Speaker of the House of Commons? A: MICHAEL MARTIN
Q: "In the monologue, ""Albert and The Lion"", what was the name of the lion?" A: WALLACE
Q: According to the 18th century nursery rhyme, after Lucy Locket lost her pocket, which famous courtesan of the day found it? A: KITTY FISHER
Q: "Which 18th century English artist and engraver painted ""The Shrimp Girl"", held in The National Gallery in London?" A: WILLIAM HOGARTH
Q: Britain, France and which other country were the main opponents of Russia in the Crimean War? A: TURKEY
Q: "Which singer/songwriter wrote the song, ""Hello Mary Lou"" based on a song called, ""Merry, Merry, Lou"", which became a big hit for Ricky Nelson in 1961?" A: GENE PITNEY
Q: Simmenthal cattle were originally bred in which country? A: SWITZERLAND
Q: "Which actress played the title role in the 1945 film, ""Mildred Pierce""?" A: JOAN CRAWFORD
Q: Which powerful poison is extracted from the seeds of the Castor Oil plant? A: RICIN
Q: Which Bulgarian dissident was poisoned on Waterloo Bridge in 1978, with an umbrella into which had been inserted a pellet containing ricin? A: GEORGI MARKOV
Q: Which breed of white or grey horse is used exclusively at The Spanish Riding School in Vienna? A: LIPIZZANER
Q: "Who wrote and recorded the song, ""Blue Suede Shoes"", later a hit record for Elvis Presley?" A: CARL PERKINS
Q: In which 1960's play, revived in London in 2007, does a Parisian architect have three air-hostess fiancees? A: BOEING BOEING
Q: In 1915, which Balkan nation joined W.W.I., on the side of the Central Powers (i.e. Germany), by declaring war on Serbia? A: BULGARIA
Q: Which Roman Catholic sacrament consists of the anointing of a dying person with oil, which has been blessed? A: EXTREME UNCTION
Q: "The ""Bloody Sunday"" massacre of 1972, took place in which Irish city?" A: (LONDON)DERRY
Q: "Shortly after World War I, the Kennel Club gave which new name to the ""Deutsche Schaferhund"", after a region, which had been taken from Germany?" A: THE ALSATIAN
Q: Who opened the bowling alongside Wes Hall for the West Indies on the 1963 and 1966 test tours to England? A: CHARLIE GRIFFITH
Q: "In the opera, ""Tosca"", by Puccini, what is the name of the heroine's beloved, who is executed by firing squad in the final scenes?" A: (MARIO) CAVARADOSSI
Q: "Who was lead singer with the 1960's pop group, ""Amen Corner""?" A: ANDY FAIRWEATHER LOW
Q: The Appian Way began in Rome and ends in which other Italian city? A: Brindisi
Q: Who was the founding father of the US state of Texas? A: Stephen F. Austin
Q: Europa Point is the southern tip of which British territory? A: Gibraltar
Q: The Mall links Buckingham Palace and where? A: Admiralty Arch
Q: Which opera features the Polovtsian Dances? A: Prince Igor
Q: Who presides over a Court Martial? A: Judge Advocate
Q: Which Olympic city had the animal mascot called Amik the Beaver? A: Montreal
Q: What time was anticipated by Will Kane? A: High Noon
Q: What kind of animal; is a 'sambar'? A: Deer
Q: Which city in Scotland styles itself as the City of Discovery? A: Dundee
Q: Prior to Arsenal in 2004 which is the only other team to win the League (Div 1) without a defeat? A: Preston North End
Q: Primrose Day on 19Ih April celebrates which 19th Century statesman? A: Benjamin Disraeli
Q: Prior to Zinedine Zidane being sent off in the world cup final of 2006 which other French player was also sent off in a World Cup Final (1998)? A: Marcel Desailly
Q: Operation Husky was the code name for Allied landing where? A: Sicily
Q: Hoosiers are natives of which US state? A: Indiana
Q: The film 'Don't Look Now' with Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland was adapted from a book by whom? A: Daphne du Maurier
Q: Who is the MP for Sheffield Hallam? A: Nick Clegg
Q: Who follows 'the eight fold path'? A: Buddhists
Q: Which canal system links the River Thames (London) and Birmingham? A: Grand Union
Q: In which country now within the EU was the fictional Hannibal Lector born? A: Lithuania
Q: What starts in Chepstow and ends in Prestatyn? A: Offa's Dyke
Q: The codename 'Corporate' was give to which post war British military operation? A: Falklands War
Q: Whose official residence is Number One Observatory Circle? A: US Vice President
Q: What is the name of the US presidential helicopter? A: Marine 1
Q: Which Dickens character was apprenticed to 'Old Fezziwig'? A: Ebenezer Scrooge
Q: Which is the longest running Broadway musical in history? A: Phantom of the Opera
Q: The MPLA was the independence movement of which African country? A: Angola
Q: Whose motto is 'broadcast yourself? A: YouTube
Q: Which opera is set in Catfish Row? A: Porgy and Bess
Q: Brown Willy is the highest point of which moor? A: Bodmin
Q: In Dickens who was jilted by Compeyson? A: Miss Havisham
Q: From which country did Kosovo achieve independence in 2008? A: Serbia
Q: What is the US equivalent of the SAS (Special Air Service)? A: Delta
Q: Who composed 'The Firebird' and 'The Rite of Spring'? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Who famously 'attacked' Russell Harty whilst being interviewed by him? A: Grace Jones
Q: In the Bible who was the husband of Jezebel? A: Ahab
Q: What is the name of Saddam Hussein's home town? A: Tikrit
Q: Who composed the opera 'Lohengrin'? A: Richard Wagner
Q: On a suit of armour, the poleyn would protect which part of the body? A: Knee
Q: Which London theatre was the first public building to be lit entirely by electricity? A: Savoy
Q: What kind of animal is a 'Bichon Frise'? A: Dog
Q: In which town or city is the 'Land of Green Ginger? A: Hull
Q: Name the leader of the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission who spent time in Iraq looking for 'weapons of mass destruction' prior to the invasion of Iraq? A: Hans Blix
Q: Who played the part of 'Jimmy' in the 1970s TV comedy 'The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin', going on to further success in 'As Time Goes By'? A: Geoffrey Palmer
Q: Name the famous male ballet dancer who defected to the west in 1961 while dancing with the Kirov Ballet in Paris? A: Rudolph Nureyev
Q: Before he became Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams was bishop of which see between 1991 and 2002? A: Monmouth
Q: What is the nickname of new Premiership football team Stoke City? A: The Potters
Q: Who carried out the infamous interview with the Sex Pistols on the Today show in December 1976? A: Bill Grundy
Q: Which is the largest lake in Venezuela? A: Lake Maracaibo
Q: Which government organisation is responsible for the maintenance of motorways and trunk roads? A: Highways Agency
Q: Who was-head-of the Argentine military government at the time of the 1982 Falklands conflict? A: (Leopoldo) Galtieri
Q: Who played the part of 'Joan' in the 1970s TV comedy 'The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin', going on to further success in 'Coronation Street'? A: Sue Nicholls
Q: Which Yorkshire town or city has a daily newspaper called the Telegraph & Argus? A: Bradford
Q: What is the first name of Commander Dalgliesh, the character created by author PD James? A: Adam
Q: What is combined with potato to create the dish 'Pommes Dauphine'? A: Choux Pastry
Q: On a suit of armour, the couter would protect which part of the body? A: Elbow
Q: In the Bible who called for the head of John the Baptist? A: Salome
Q: Name the famous male ballet dancer who defected to the west in 1974 while dancing with the Kirov Ballet in Toronto? A: Mikhail Baryshnikov
Q: What was the name of the Russian submarine lost in the Barents Sea in August 2000? A: Kursk
Q: What is the nickname of new Premiership football team Hull City? A: The Tigers
Q: In which Shakespeare play is 'Feste' a character? A: Twelfth Night
Q: Who is Katharina's younger sister in Shakespeare's 'Taming of the Shrew'? A: Bianca
Q: What is the first name of Detective Inspector Rebus, the character created by author Ian Rankin? A: John
Q: Before he became Archbishop of York, John Sentamu was bishop of which see between 2002 and 2005? A: Birmingham
Q: "Which pop song includes the lyrics ""I'm never gonna dance again, guilty feet have got no rhythm""?" A: Careless Whisper
Q: How many public companies comprise the Dow Jones Index? A: 30
Q: Who became Prince of Wales in 1504? A: Henry 8th
Q: Name the soldier, with whom Anna Karenina falls in love, their affair ending tragically in her death? A: COUNT VRONSKY
Q: Although he started and ended his career with Yorkshire, for which other county did Darren Gough play cricket from 2003-07? A: ESSEX
Q: "Which woman, far more famous in another field, wrote the children's books, ""Mr Peabody's Apples"" and ""The English Roses""?" A: MADONNA
Q: "Who composed a set of 30 variations for the harpsichord which he named the ""Goldberg Variations""?" A: J.S. BACH
Q: For his role in which film did Al Pacino win the Oscar for best actor in 1992? A: SCENT OF A WOMAN
Q: In 2006, which planet in our solar system was re-classified as a dwarf planet and is now classified alongside Eris and Ceres? A: PLUTO
Q: Which Mexican girl is currently the world's No.1 lady golfer? A: LORENA OCHOA
Q: Perak and Perlis are both states of which South East Asian country? A: MALAYSIA
Q: "On TV, which actor played the parts of Rebus and also D.I. Pat Chappell in ""The Vice""?" A: KEN STOTT
Q: "Which pop singer, tragically killed in a car accident in 1960, sang the song, ""Twenty Flight Rock"" in the 1956 film, ""The Girl Can't Help It""?" A: EDDIE COCHRAN
Q: Who was on the English throne at the start of the Hundred Years War in 1337? A: EDWARD III
Q: Who was on the English throne when the Hundred Years War ended in 1453? A: HENRY VI
Q: "Which pop singer, who survived the car crash in which Eddie Cochran died, sang with a backing group called, ""The Blue Caps""?" A: GENE VINCENT
Q: Who has been horse racing's National Hunt champion jockey every season since 1995-96? A: TONY McCOY
Q: Who has been nominated for the Oscar awards of best actress or supporting actress a record fourteen times, between 1979 and 2006, winning each award just once? A: MERYL STREEP
Q: "Which actress, who played the part of Candice Stowe in ""Coronation St."", joined the cast of ""Heartbeat"" in 2008, where she plays the part of Dawn Bellamy?" A: NIKKI SANDERSON
Q: Which government minister was shamed in 1992, when actress Antonio de Sancha told the press about his extra marital affair with her? A: DAVID MELLOR
Q: "Who composed the music to the anthem, ""Jerusalem"", written by William Blake""?" A: HUBERT PARRY
Q: Which British actress was married to the actor Rod Steiger from 1959 until 1969? A: CLAIRE BLOOM
Q: With which county did Lancashire fast bowler Dominic Cork start his career in 1990? A: DERBYSHIRE
Q: In New Zealand, Tui and Kakapos are what type of creature? A: BIRDS
Q: Born in Argentina in 1942, which pianist and conductor has been has been music director of the Berlin State Opera since 1992, and was music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra from 1991 to 2006? A: DANIEL BARENBOIM
Q: Which common expression comes from the act in 1887, of Lord Salisbury promoting his nephew, A J Balfour, to the post of Chief Secretary for Ireland? A: BOB'S YOUR UNCLE
Q: "Which actor, who stars as Mac Taylor in the TV series, CSI New York, played the part of Lt. Dan Taylor in the 1994 film, ""Forrest Gump""?" A: GARY SINISE
Q: Who was elected President of Cuba in February 2008? A: RAUL CASTRO
Q: Who was elected Chancellor of Germany in November 2005? A: ANGELA MERKEL
Q: In the bible, who was the son of King Saul, who befriended David, and saved him from being killed by the King? A: JONATHAN
Q: "Which famous film actress starred as Victoria Barkley in the TV series, ""The Big Valley"", the series which spawned the career of actor, Lee Majors?" A: BARBARA STANWYCK
Q: Which Rodgers and Hammerstein musical had the theme of romantic problems among immigrants in San Francisco's Chinatown? A: FLOWER DRUM SONG
Q: Born in Hungary in 1912, which pianist and conductor was music director at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, from 1961-71, and music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra from 1969-91? A: GEORG SOLTI
Q: Which King of England was crowned on Christmas Day? A: WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR
Q: Close to the village of St Just, what is the name of the only cape in England? A: CAPE CORNWALL
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""Dad's Army"", which character spoke the line, ""Mum won't like it Uncle Arthur""?" A: PRIVATE PIKE
Q: Who did the Italian former model Carla Bruni marry in February 2008? A: NICOLAS SARKOZY
Q: Which is the only letter in the game of Scrabble to score five points? A: THE LETTER K
Q: Which star of Hollywood musicals died in 1987; his straight roles included that of a con man in The Towering Inferno? A: FRED ASTAIRE
Q: Who wrote the novel Room at the Top? A: JOHN BRAINE
Q: In the Beverley Hills Cop films, what is the name of the character played by Eddie Murphy? A: AXEL FOLEY
Q: Which is the longest mountain range in the world? A: ANDES
Q: Whose theme song was 'Minnie the Moocher'? A: CAB CALLOWAY
Q: What is the first name of the wife of French president Nikolas Sarkozy? A: Carla
Q: In which year in the 20th Century were there three Popes? A: 1978
Q: What Is the SI unit of power? A: Watt
Q: What is the SI of force? A: Newton
Q: What Is the first name of the wife of US President Barack Obama? A: Michelle
Q: """Suicide Is Painless"" Is associated with which American TV Show?" A: MASH
Q: Sphalerite is the main ore of which metal? A: Zinc
Q: Malachite is the main ore of which metal? A: Copper
Q: Burkina Faso was known by which name until 1984? A: Upper Volta
Q: In Morse code what letter is signified by dash dash? A: M
Q: On which Caribbean island were England dismissed for 51 in a test match in 2009? A: Jamaica
Q: As at 1.2.2009 who is the coach of St Helens RLFC? A: Mick Potter
Q: Which horse won the 2008 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Denman
Q: On which Caribbean island was a test match abandoned in 2009 after only 10 balls were bowled? A: Antigua
Q: Who is the only Croatian to win men's singles at Wimbledon? A: Goran Ivanisevic
Q: Which horse won the 2008 Grand National? A: Comply Or Die
Q: As at 1.2.2009. Who is the coach of Warrington Wolves RLFC? A: James Lowes
Q: Who was the first Poet Laureate appointed in 1668? A: John Dryden
Q: In which Jane Austin novel are the characters Anne Elliot and Frederick Wentworth? A: Persuasion
Q: "Which character in Shakespeare's Hamlet says ""Beware of entrance to a quarrel but being in, bear't that the opposed may be aware of thee""?" A: Polonius
Q: Of what are you afraid if you suffer from hydrophobia? A: Water
Q: What is the capital of Bermuda? A: Hamilton
Q: In which year did Yuri Gagarin become the first man in space? A: 1961
Q: Who In 1963 became the first woman in space? A: Valentina Tereshkova
Q: Who composed the opera Tristan and Isolde? A: Wagner
Q: Who played Tony Soprano on TV? A: James Gandolfini
Q: Who composed the opera Otello? A: Verdi
Q: Who is the main Patron Saint of France? A: Denis
Q: Who was the Greek sorceress who turned Odysseus' men into swine? A: Circe
Q: What was the name of the Dutch MP refused entry into the UK in early 2009? A: Gert Wilders
Q: Which art movement was originally formed by Walter Gropius in 1918 in Weimar? A: Bauhaus
Q: In which year did Mussolini seize power in Italy and the Irish Free State become established? A: 1922
Q: In which year was Gandhi assassinated and the state of Israel set up? A: 1948
Q: "Howard Schultz owner of Starbucks prompted which political figure to ask ""Who the f**k is he?" A: Peter Mandelson
Q: Which art movement was formulated as an anarchic form of expressionism in Zurich in 1916 possibly by poet Tristan Tzara? A: Dada
Q: Who won X Factor in December 2008? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Which is the first Old Testament Book named after a person? A: JOSHUA
Q: Which Country's Monarchs were crowned on the Hill of Tara? A: IRELAND
Q: Who was King of England at the outbreak of the Hundred Years War? A: EDWARD III
Q: "The Ali/Frazier fight, billed as ""The Thriller in Manila"" took place in which city?" A: QUEZON CITY
Q: Catherine of Braganza, Portuguese princess, was married to which English king? A: CHARLES II
Q: Pheidippides reportedly ran the first marathon during the war between Greece and which other country? A: PERSIA
Q: Who composed the opera La Traviata? A: VERDI
Q: On TV what was the name of Tonto's horse? A: SCOUT
Q: Which singer had the theme song 'Everybody Loves Somebody'? A: DEAN MARTIN
Q: Eve Pollard is the agony aunt from which daily newspaper? A: DAILY MIRROR
Q: Which element has the symbol Na? A: SODIUM
Q: In which year was the Prime Minister Spencer Percival shot on entering the House of Commons? A: 1812
Q: "In which film did Clint Eastwood sing the song ""I Talk To The Trees'?" A: PAINT YOUR WAGON
Q: Which spirit is mixed with orange juice to make the cocktail known as a screwdriver? A: VODKA
Q: In which war was the Battle of Bunker Hill? A: US WAR OF INDEPENDENCE
Q: "Which football league club is known as ""The Bees""?" A: BRENTFORD
Q: In which long running TV Programme did Trudie Goodwin and Graham Cole appear? A: THE BILL
Q: In which city were the Winter Olympic Games held when John Curry won a gold medal for men's figure skating? A: INNSBRUCK
Q: Who was King of England at the Battle of Bannockburn? A: EDWARD II
Q: On which island was the singer Freddy Mercury born? A: ZANZIBAR
Q: Catherine of Valois, French Princess was married to which English king? A: HENRY THE FIFTH
Q: Which famous boxer had the nickname the 'Brockton Blockbuster'? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: Which disease has the medical term variola? A: SMALLPOX
Q: In Greek mythology who is the Goddess of Retribution? A: NEMESIS
Q: Who composed the opera La Boheme? A: PUCCINI
Q: In Western films what was the name of Hopalong Cassidy's horse? A: TOPPER
Q: What is the collective noun for moles? A: LABOUR
Q: Carson City is the state capital of which American state? A: NEVADA
Q: In the film 'Darby O'Gill and the Little People' which actor not known as a singer, sang 'A Sweet Little Irish Girl'? A: SEAN CONNERY
Q: Which spirit is mixed with Drambuie to make the cocktail known as 'A Rusty Nail'? A: WHISKY
Q: In which war was the Battle of Crecy? A: HUNDRED YEAR WAR
Q: For which film did Julia Roberts win the Best Actress Oscar in 2001? A: ERIN BROCHOVICH
Q: In which TV soap/drama did the actors Steve Halliwell and Mark Charnock appear? A: EMMERDALE
Q: In music what is Dr Thomas Arne's most famous composition? A: RULE BRITANNIA
Q: What state does Sarah Palin represent as its governor? A: ALASKA
Q: Which beer is brewed at the St James Gate Brewery? A: GUINNESS
Q: On which National Radio Station would you listen to Shelagh Foggerty, Anita Anand and Richard Bacon? A: RADIO 5 LIVE
Q: On which national radio station would you listen to Jane Jones, Jamie Crick and John Brunning? A: CLASSIC FM
Q: In which year did 617 Squadron's Dambusters Raid take place? A: 1943
Q: From which plant does natural vanilla flavouring come from? A: ORCHID
Q: What US State did Barack Obama become Senator of in 2005? A: ILLINOIS
Q: "From which musical does the song ""The Impossible Dream"" come from?" A: MAN OF LA MANCHA
Q: "From which western film starring John Wayne does the line ""When the legend becomes fact, print the legend""?" A: THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE
Q: What is the name of the canal opened in 1931 that circumvents Niagara Falls by linking Lakes Erie and Ontario? A: WELLAND
Q: In 2009 Michaela Tabb became the first female referee of which World Final? A: SNOOKER
Q: Craig Stirling, Sharon McCready and Richard Barrett were the central characters in which late 1960's TV series? A: THE CHAMPIONS
Q: What currency is used on Christmas Island? A: AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR
Q: Muscat is the capital of which country? A: OMAN
Q: Which river is crossed by the bridge Ponte Vasco de Gama? A: TAGUS
Q: In which US State did the Battle of Wounded Knee take place? A: SOUTH DAKOTA
Q: In which sport do participants use a mawashi? A: SUMO WRESTLING
Q: As at June 2009 who is the first Minister of Northern Ireland? A: PETER ROBINSON
Q: Who is the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland? A: HUGH ORDE
Q: Which Gloucestershire town sits on the confluence of the Severn and Warwickshire Avon? A: TEWKESBURY
Q: Which country won the Eurovision Song Contest in May 2009? A: NORWAY
Q: In which US State did the Gunfight at the OK Corral take place? A: ARIZONA
Q: Which musical is based on the play The Matchmaker by Thornton Wilder? A: HELLO DOLLY
Q: Who composed the opera Dido and Aeneas which was the first performed in London in 1689? A: PURCELL
Q: In the Bible who was the father of David? A: JESSE
Q: Which musical is based on the novel Kipps by H. G. Wells? A: HALF A SIXPENCE
Q: The Summer Olympics of 1956 were held in Melbourne. However in which city were the equestrian events held? A: STOCKHOLM
Q: Who plays Chief Inspector George Gently on television? A: MARTIN SHAW
Q: The Argentinean composer Astor Piazzola made an art form of which dance? A: TANGO
Q: Temple Meads Railway Station is in which English city? A: Bristol
Q: Which sporting technique was invented by the father of ITN newsreader Reginald Bosanquet? A: The Googly
Q: In the rhyme 'The Owl and the Pussycat' which animal performed the wedding? A: The Turkey
Q: Which plant has the Latin name allium sativum? A: Garlic
Q: The dance known as the lambada originates from which country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the more common name for the shrub syringa? A: Lilac
Q: In which Liverpool street was William E Gladstone born? A: Rodney Street
Q: In which US city was Motown Records founded? A: Detroit
Q: How was Erik Weiss better known? A: (Harry) Houdini
Q: Which Shakespeare play contains the line 'Get thee to a nunnery'? A: Hamlet
Q: Who composed the piano piece 'Fur Elise' in 1810? A: Beethoven
Q: Haemotology is the study of which part of the body? A: Blood
Q: Who wrote the play 'Major Barbara' in 1905? A: G B Shaw
Q: Who was world heavyweight boxing champion from 1937 to 1950? A: Joe Louis
Q: Who composed the orchestral work 'The Carnival of the Animals' in 1886? A: (Camille) Saint-Saens
Q: Who wrote the play 'The Alchemist' in 1610? A: Ben Jonson
Q: What nationality was the opera singer Kirsten Flagstad? A: Norwegian
Q: Who first said 'knowledge is power ('scientia potential est') in 1597? A: Francis Bacon
Q: What is the better known name for the confectionary Rahat Lokum? A: Turkish Delight
Q: Who became Canada's first woman Prime Minister in 1993? A: Kim Campbell
Q: What is the equivalent rank of an army colonel in the RAF? A: Group Captain
Q: Which musical instrument provides the leader of an orchestra with the concert pitch of the note 'A'? A: The Oboe
Q: Oscar Niemeyer was the chief architect of which capital city from 1956 until 1960? A: Brasilia
Q: Which English city was called Clausentum by the Romans? A: Southampton
Q: In which Scottish town, north of Stirling, was tennis player Jamie Murray born? A: Dunblane
Q: What name is given to the distance between the two rails of a railway track? A: Gauge
Q: Which composer, born in 1732, wrote the oratorios 'The Creation' and 'The Seasons'? A: (Franz Josef) Haydn
Q: Which musical instrument does President Bill Clinton play? He played this instrument in the Arkansas State Band. A: Saxophone
Q: Alfred Hitchcock made two films of the same name and virtually the same story in 1934 and 1956, the second starring Doris Day and James Stewart. Name the film. The Man Who Knew A: Too Much
Q: On which island did the mutinous crew from the Bounty make their home? A: Pitcairn
Q: Who starred as the villain Max Cady in the 1991 remake of the film 'Cape Fear'? A: Robert de Niro
Q: Which athlete won a gold medal for Great Britain in the 2009 World Championships in Berlin in the triple jump? A: Phillips Idowu
Q: In which county would you find the stone circle known as 'Long Meg and her daughters'? A: Cumbria
Q: In which atmospheric city was the Daphne du Maurier short story 'Don't Look Now' set? It was later filmed in 1973. A: Venice
Q: Which bank acquired the Woolwich Building Society in 2000? A: Barclays
Q: What was the middle name of Diana, Princess of Wales? A: Frances
Q: Who was the principal guitarist with the Quintette du Hot Club de France? A: Django Reinhardt
Q: What specific product is associated with the town of Lynchburg Tennessee? A: Jack Daniel's
Q: Who is the narrator for the majority of R L Stevenson's book Treasure Island? A: Jim Hawkins
Q: The Kiel Canal links the North Sea with which other sea? A: The Baltic
Q: In which country was Grinling Gibbons born? A: Holland
Q: The main mouth of the Amazon lies in which country? A: Brazil
Q: What was the middle name of Princess Diana? A: Frances
Q: Who wrote the novel The Turn of the Screw? A: Henry James
Q: The Australian town of Newcastle is in which state? A: New South Wales
Q: Two of the water signs are Cancer and Scorpio, what is the third? A: Pisces
Q: In the 1940 film Fantasia, who was the Sorcerer's Apprentice? A: Mickey Mouse
Q: Rachel, a Hebrew name appears in the Old Testament, it means what? A: Ewe
Q: Name the film in which Arnold Schwarznegger becomes pregnant? A: Junior
Q: Two of the earth signs are Taurus and Capricorn what is the third? A: Virgo
Q: Who captained the first 'rebel' cricket tour of South Africa? A: Graham Gooch
Q: Who wrote the opera Hansel and Gretel? A: Englebert Humperdinck
Q: In which year was the first London Marathon? A: 1981
Q: What was the name given to the atomic bomb that devastated Nagasaki in 1945? A: Fat Man
Q: Name the dragon that guarded treasure in the Hobbit? A: Smaug
Q: The Berlin Wall was breached in 1989, for how many complete years had it stood? A: 28
Q: Name the home of the giants visited in Gulliver's Travels? A: Brobdingnag
Q: The first five books of Hebrew Bible are contained in what Jewish Holy Book? A: Torah
Q: To which family of birds do canaries and siskins belong? A: Finch
Q: By what name is the bird the yaffle more commonly known? A: Green Woodpecker
Q: What is the capital of the Seychelles? A: Victoria
Q: In which English county is Aldeburgh? A: Suffolk
Q: Which branch of physics is concerned with the study of low temperatures? A: Cryogenics
Q: Which device did William Oughtred invent in 1621? A: The Slide Rule
Q: What is the capital of Mauritius? A: Port Louis
Q: What is the name of the Edinburgh Cathedral to be found on the Royal Mile? A: St.Giles
Q: Which musical contain the songs, 'Til There Was You and 76 Trombones? A: The Music Man
Q: What did the Ancient Greeks call the area that now contains Syria, Lebanon and Israel? A: Phoenicia
Q: What is the state capital of North Carolina? A: Raleigh
Q: In Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew, who was the father of Bianca and Katrina? A: Baptista
Q: In which year was the Peterloo Massacre? A: 1819
Q: Name the straits which separate Italy and Sicily? A: Messina
Q: What is the state capital of South Dakota? A: Pierre
Q: How is the statue by Chares of the Sun God Helios better known? A: Colossus of Rhodes
Q: In Shakespeare's Twelfth Night, to which Lady is Malvolio the steward? A: Olivia
Q: In which year were the Gordon Riots? A: 1780
Q: Where would you apply to become a keeper of an English lighthouse? A: Trinity House
Q: The Easter Rising against British rule in Ireland took place in which year? A: 1916
Q: Easter Island is a territory of its nearest mainland neighbour, which country is that? A: Chile
Q: Hever Castle in Kent was the childhood home of which English Queen? A: Anne Boleyn
Q: "Standing for words meaning ""The Senate and people of Rome"", which 4 letters appeared on standards carried by Roman soldiers?" A: SPQR
Q: What was the name of the first communications satellite, launched in 1962? A: Telstar
Q: At the 2008 European Football Championships Otto Rehhagel was coach of which country's team? A: Greece
Q: Which TV series features the characters 'Stanley Marsh' and 'Kyle Broflovski'? A: South Park
Q: Which fish is used to make an Arbroath Smokie? A: Haddock
Q: Which sport is played at the top level by Mardy Fish? A: Tennis
Q: Which English writer, best known for his science fiction, published 'Outline of History' in the 1920s? A: HG Wells
Q: What type of weapon is a 'Katana'? A: (long, single edged) Sword
Q: The island of Trinidad lies seven miles off the coast of which South American country? A: Venezuela
Q: Which US President was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize after his term in office? A: Jimmy Carter
Q: An excess of what in the bloodstream causes jaundice? A: Bile
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear submarine, launched in 1954? A: Nautilus
Q: Dawley New Town changed its name in 1968, how is it now known? A: Telford
Q: Mujibur Rahman was the first president of which country? A: Bangladesh
Q: Bundaberg rum is produced in which country? A: Australia
Q: Which famous ex-sportsman provides the voice for the children's TV programme 'Roary the Racing Car'? A: Stirling Moss
Q: Prasutagus was the husband of which famous woman? A: Boudicca
Q: At the 2008 European Football Championships Leo Beenhakker was coach of which country's team? A: Poland
Q: Which tenor created the title roles in Benjamin Britten's operas 'Peter Grimes' and 'Albert Herring'? A: Peter Pears
Q: Theodore Roosevelt was the first US President to receive a Nobel Peace Prize, who was the second? A: Woodrow Wilson
Q: Which Yorkshire headland is defended by the ancient Dane's Dyke? A: Flamborough Head
Q: In which city is the book 'The Shadow of the Wind' by Carlos Ruiz Zafon set? A: Barcelona
Q: Who succeeded John Prescott as Deputy Leader of the Labour Party in 2007? A: Harriet Harman
Q: Which English writer, best known for his detective fiction, published a fantasy novel entitled 'The Man Who Was Thursday' in 1908? A: GK Chesterton
Q: Which Australian state capital was named after the man who was Governor of New South Wales 1821-25? A: Brisbane
Q: In which month of 1805 was the Battle of Trafalgar fought? A: October
Q: In which castle was Mary Queen of Scots executed? A: Fotheringay
Q: Which singer was shot dead by his father in 1984? A: Marvin Gaye
Q: Which famous soprano is married to the conductor Richard Bonynge? A: Joan Sutherland
Q: Who wrote the 1798 treatise 'An Essay on the Principle of Population'? A: Thomas Malthus
Q: In which month of 1815 was the Battle of Waterloo fought? A: June
Q: Who was appointed deputy to Ian Paisley at the Northern Ireland assembly at Stormont in May 2007? A: Martin McGuiness
Q: Which South Wales town was formed in 1921 by the amalgamation of Aberavon and Margam? A: Port Talbot
Q: Which Roman Genera is reputed to have been executed by having molten gold poured down his throat by his Parthian captors? A: (Marcus Licinius) Crassus
Q: Which Australian state capital is close to the River Torrens? A: Adelaide
Q: What is the name of the RSPB reserve just to the north of Flamborough, famous for its nesting seabirds? A: Bempton Cliffs
Q: Which Shakespearean character was the daughter of Brabantio? A: Desdemona
Q: In which mid west state is the first Primary of the US Presidential election traditionally held? A: Iowa
Q: Which children's author created Tracey Beaker? A: Jacqueline Wilson
Q: Who wrote The Origin of Species in 1859? A: CHARLES DARWIN
Q: Which comedian is married to Pamela Stephenson? A: BILLY CONNOLLY
Q: Who shot Lee Harvey Oswald after his arrest for the assassination of John F Kennedy? A: JACK RUBY
Q: The Secret Garden and Little Lord Fauntleroy are works by which writer? A: FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT
Q: Where in London can statues of George IV, Sir Henry Havelock and Sir Charles Napier be found? A: TRAFALGAR SQUARE
Q: Who was known as 'The King of Ragtime' composing such works as Maple Leaf Rag and The Entertainer? A: SCOTT JOPLIN
Q: Which 1973 film used The Entertainer as its theme music? A: THE STING
Q: What computer component is Intel most associated with producing? A: PROCESSORS
Q: Which river rises in the Pennines, flows through Settle and Preston before reaching the sea at Lytham St Annes? A: THE RIBBLE
Q: What is the full name of the youngest of the Spice Girls? A: EMMA BUNTON
Q: Queen Alexandra was the wife of which British King? A: EDWARD VII
Q: What is the Dewey Decimal System used to classify? A: BOOKS
Q: What was the name of the otter in Henry Williamson's famous 1927 novel? A: TARKA
Q: The 1990 film The December Bride starring Donal McCann, Saskia Reeves and Ciaran Hinds, is set in which country? A: IRELAND
Q: Sir Joshua Reynolds was the first president of which institution, founded in 1768? A: THE ROYAL ACADEMY
Q: Which comedy series, running from 1989 to 1994, starred Anton Rodgers as a solicitor who falls for a much younger woman, played first by Eve Matheson and subsequently by Lesley Dunlop? A: MAY TO DECEMBER
Q: In which country did the failed Decembrist uprising take place in 1825? A: RUSSIA
Q: The House of Braganza ruled which country from 1640 to 1910? A: PORTUGAL
Q: Which animals make up the mammalian order cetacea? A: WHALES,
Q: Which actor, who achieved worldwide fame in a television series of the late 1970s and 80s was the son of the actress and singer Mary Martin? A: LARRY HAGMAN
Q: Who compiled the significant 1942 report 'Social Insurance and Allied Services'? A: SIR WILLIAM BEVERIDGE
Q: Which composer has won Academy Awards for Best Original Score for Born Free, Out of Africa, and Dance with Wolves? A: JOHN BARRY
Q: What is the name of the railway company that operates services between St Pancras, the East Midlands and South Yorkshire? A: MIDLAND MAINLINE
Q: Who starred as Paul Kersey in the five Death Wish films? A: CHARLES BRONSON
Q: In western astrology, to which element do Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces belong? A: WATER
Q: Alfredo Stroessner was a dictator of which South American country from 1954 to 1989? A: PARAGUAY
Q: John Goodman played Dan Connor, in which American TV comedy series? A: ROSEANNE
Q: Which board game is based around European power politics leading up,to the First World War? A: DIPLOMACY
Q: Who was the Democratic candidate who lost to George Bush in the US Presidential election in 1988? A: MICHAEL DUKAKIS
Q: Who was World Heavyweight Boxing Champion from 1978 to 1985, defending his title 20 times before losing to Michael Spinks? A: LARRY HOLMES
Q: In what year did Doctor Who start on television? A: 1963
Q: Which writer was the father of Christopher Robin? A: A A MILNE
Q: Which film had the tagline 'just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water'? A: JAWS II
Q: In Greek mythology, how are the nine daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne collectively called? A: MUSES
Q: In The Tempest, what is the name of Prospero's daughter? A: MIRANDA
Q: Sandwich, Little Whiskered and Arctic are all types of which bird? A: TERN
Q: Which 1937 film about boxing, starring Edward G Robinson, was remade in 1962, as a musical, starring Elvis Presley? A: KID GALAHAD
Q: In Greek mythology, who saved Andromeda from the Kraken, a large sea monster? A: PERSEUS
Q: Who is the present Prime Minister of Canada? A: STEPHEN HARPER
Q: Whereabouts in the human body is the zygomatic bone situated? A: THE CHEEK
Q: "Which author wrote the lines, ""Home is the sailor, home from the sea, and the hunter, home from the hill""?" A: R.L. STEVENSON
Q: Which treaty ended the Franco-Prussian war in 1871? A: TREATY OF FRANKFURT
Q: The M32 motorway connects the M4 to which English town or city? A: BRISTOL
Q: Gannymede is the largest moon, orbiting which of the planets? A: JUPITER
Q: Which instrument is played by the American classical musician, Carlo Curley? A: THE ORGAN
Q: Which film actress, born Tula Finklea in Texas in 1922, died in June 2008, aged 88? A: CYD CHARISSE
Q: In the 1960's, which car company, part of BMC, made models called the Kestrel and the Elf? A: RILEY
Q: Which is the largest moon, orbiting the planet Neptune? A: TRITON
Q: The M606 motorway connects the M62 to which English town or city? A: BRADFORD
Q: In which city was the congress held in 1814-15, which agreed the settlement of Europe after the Napoleonic Wars? A: VIENNA
Q: A native of South America, the pudu is the smallest known species of which animal? A: THE DEER
Q: Whereabouts in the human body is the calcaneus bone situated? A: THE HEEL
Q: Who is currently the Prime Minister of Eire? A: BRIAN COWEN
Q: In Greek mythology, which Queen of the Amazons was accidentally killed by her ally, Amazon Queen Penthesilea? A: HIPPOLYTE
Q: A plant described as etoliated has been grown lacking what? A: LIGHT
Q: "Which American big band leader had as his theme song, the tune, ""I'm Getting Sentimental Over You""?" A: TOMMY DORSEY
Q: The Great Land Rush of 1889 took place in which state of the USA? A: OKLAHOMA
Q: Which tree is also known as the Trembling Poplar? A: THE ASPEN
Q: The flag of Venezuela is divided into three bands. Two of the colours are red and yellow. What is the third? A: BLUE
Q: "Which author wrote the classic Russian novel, ""The Brothers Karamazov""?" A: FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY
Q: Which Italian coastal resort is served by Federico Fellini Airport? A: RIMINI.
Q: Who was the Scottish Labour Party leader, who resigned in June 2008, after failing to declare donation to her leadership campaign in 2007? A: WENDY ALEXANDER
Q: Hawkes Bay is a wine-growing region in which country? A: NEW ZEALAND
Q: Who is the leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party, and currently, the First Minister of Scotland? A: ALEX SALMOND
Q: "What was the name of the comic book character, ""The Tough of The Track""?" A: ALF TUPPER
Q: Etihad is the national airline of which Middle Eastern country? A: UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Q: The flag of Hungary is divided into three bands. Two of the colours are red and white. What is the third? A: GREEN
Q: Originating in Italy, what kind of food is pecorino? A: CHEESE
Q: "Name the German born, British art historian, who wrote a series of books entitled, ""The Buildings of England"", between 1951 and 1974?" A: NIKOLAUS PEVSNER
Q: According to the bible, Zaccariah was the father of which New Testament figure? A: JOHN THE BAPTIST
Q: The Battle of Bull Run, also called the 1st battle of Manassas, was fought in 1861, in which state of the USA? A: VIRGINIA
Q: Ceratopsian dinosaurs are so named because they had what physical feature? A: A HORN
Q: Which horse, ridden by Kevin Manning, won the 2008 Epsom Derby? A: NEW APPROACH
Q: The Cocos Islands in the Indian Ocean are a territory of which country? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In an alphabetical list of world countries, what comes between The Maldives and Malta? A: Mali
Q: "Which fellow rocker, whose biggest hit was ""Be-Bop-A-Lula"", survived the car crash which killed Eddie Cochrane in 1960?" A: Gene Vincent
Q: "Which actor played US President James Dale in the 1996 film ""Mars Attacks!""?" A: Jack Nicholson
Q: "Which actor played US President Andrew Shepherd in the 1995 film ""The American President'?" A: Michael Douglas
Q: What would you be afraid of if you suffered from demophobia? A: Crowds
Q: "Which former PM wrote the memoirs ""The Downing Street Years"" and ""The Path to Power""?" A: Margaret Thatcher
Q: The wife of which former PM has written books on the soprano Joan Sutherland and the PM's country house, Chequers? A: John Major
Q: In 1924, which was the first country ever to host the Summer and Winter Olympics in the same year? A: France
Q: In 1936, which was the last country ever to host the Summer and Winter Olympics in the same year? A: Germany
Q: Which model was married to photographer David Bailey for 10 years, from 1975? A: Marie Helvin
Q: Which model was married to singer Billy Joel for 9 years, from 1985? A: Christie Brinkley
Q: Which late 1990's pop duo was made up of Karen and Shellie, the daughters of 1960's singer Brian Poole? A: Alisha's Attic
Q: Which early 1990's pop trio was made up of Carnie, Wendy and Chynna, the daughters of members of 1960's bands The Beach Boys and The Mamas and the Papas? A: Wilson Phillips
Q: What is the common name for the part of the human bone with the comparatively unprotected ulnar nerve? A: Funny Bone
Q: Found in the human body, what is the more common name for myeloid tissue? A: Bone Marrow
Q: "The football chant ""Here We Go"" is sung to the tune of which Sousa march?" A: Stars and Stripes Forever
Q: "The football chant ""Who Ate All The Pies"" is sung to which music-hall tune?" A: Knees Up Mother Brown
Q: What variety of grape is used to produce the Italian red wine Chianti? A: Sangiovese
Q: What variety of bean is used to produce beansprouts, popular in Oriental cuisine? A: Mung
Q: Berengaria of Navarre was the queen of which English King? A: Richard I
Q: Catherine of Braganza was the queen of which English King? A: Charles II
Q: "Which comic actor had two top ten hits, both in 1962, with ""Hole in the Ground"" and ""Right Said Fred""?" A: Bernard Cribbins
Q: "Which one-man band had two top ten hits, both in 1968, with ""Rosie"" and ""Blue Eyes""?" A: Don Partridge
Q: Which former US First Lady founded, in 1982, a well-known drug and alcohol rehabilitation centre? A: Betty Ford
Q: Directed by John Lasseter, what was, in 1995, the first film to be entirely computer-generated? A: Toy Story
Q: Journalist and writer Martha Gellhorn was the first wife of which author? A: Ernest Hemingway
Q: Writer Roald Dahl was the husband of which Oscar-winning actress? A: Patricia Neal
Q: South African rugby winger Bryan Habana was named after which famous English sportsman? A: Bryan Robson
Q: Singer Alecia Moore first hit the charts in 2000 under what one-word name? A: Pink
Q: In 1994, Sannie Carlson became the first ever non-British singer to make a chart debut at number one - under what one word name? A: Whigfield
Q: The ancient cities of Leptis Magna and Cyrene can be found in which modern-day country? A: Libya
Q: The ancient cities of Troy and Ephesus can be found in which modern-day country? A: Turkey
Q: When Muttiah Muralitharan took his record-breaking 709th test wicket, which England player was the victim? A: Paul Collingwood
Q: Which snooker player has scored a record 709 centuries in professional tournaments? A: Stephen Hendry
Q: Arlanda airport serves which European capital city? A: Stockholm
Q: Ruzyne airport serves which European capital city? A: Prague
Q: Scotsman Ivor Robson introduces the competitors in which annual sporting event? A: Open Golf Championship
Q: "From the Arabic for ""path"", what is the name given to Islamic law?" A: Sharia
Q: Which country's currency changed from the Pound to the Euro in January 2008? A: Cyprus
Q: Which country's currency changed from the Lira to the Euro in January 2008? A: Malta
Q: How many toes are there on each foot of an ostrich? A: 2
Q: How many pairs of chromosomes does a human have? A: 23
Q: Which Scotland Yard detective is frequently upstaged by the crime-fighting abilities of Sherlock Holmes? A: Inspector Lestrade
Q: Featured more regularly on TV than in the original books, which Scotland Yard detective is regularly helped (or hindered) by the efforts of Hercule Poirot? A: Chief Inspector Japp
Q: Luxardo is the most widely-available brand of which alcoholic spirit? A: Sambuca
Q: What name is given to an island of coral that surrounds a lagoon? A: Atoll
Q: "Who composed the scores for the Alfred Hitchcock movies ""North By Northwest"" and ""Psycho""?" A: Bernard Herrmann
Q: Which city, the fourth largest in the Czech Republic, is renowned for its beer production and is the home of Skoda? A: Plzen
Q: "Named after a service station on the M4, which chef is proprietor of ""The Fat Duck"" and has been ""In Search of Perfection"" in print and on the media?" A: Heston Blumenthal
Q: Who wrote the novel 'Middlemarch' in 1869? A: George Eliot
Q: On a Monopoly board, what lies between Vine Street and The Strand? A: Free Parking
Q: What name is given to a straight line that joins any two points on the circumference of a circle? A: Chord
Q: On which river does Phnom Penh stand? A: Mekong
Q: What was the Christian name of the character played by Tim Healy in 'Auf Wiedersehen Pet'? A: Dennis
Q: What is the capital of Armenia? A: Yerevan
Q: Which football league club plays its home games at the Weston Homes Community Stadium? A: Colchester United
Q: Who succeeded Robin Day as regular presenter of Question Time, in June 1989? A: Peter Sissons
Q: What was the first Martin Scorsese film that Robert De Niro appeared in, released in 1973? A: Mean Streets
Q: In which war was the Battle of the Ebro (Batalia del Ebro) fought? A: Spanish Civil War
Q: Who was Mohammed Reza Pahlavi? A: (The last) Shah of Iran
Q: How was Lev Davidovitch Bronstein better known? A: Leon Trotsky
Q: In terms of surface area, which is the largest body of water in the British Isles? A: Lough Neagh
Q: Which 1910 comic novel by H G Wells features the Potwell Inn in Sussex? A: The History of Mr Polly
Q: Which UK group's fourth and final number one was 'Beat Surrender' in 1982? A: The Jam
Q: Which London thoroughfare gave its name to a 2003 novel by Monica Ali? A: Brick Lane
Q: "Who wrote the novels ""Rosemary's Baby"", ""The Stepford Wives"" and ""The Boys from Brazil""?" A: Ira Levin
Q: What was the name of the junior TV Times magazine that ran from 1971 to 1994? A: Look-In
Q: In 1918 Kaiser Wilhelm II was exiled to which country? A: The Netherlands
Q: Which sunken ship lies on the floor of Pearl Harbour as a memorial to those killed in the attack of 7 December 1941? A: USS Arizona
Q: Which gas makes up 95% of the atmosphere of the planet Mars? A: Carbon Dioxide
Q: What brand name was registered by the Wolverine Shoe and Tanning Company in 1961? A: Hush Puppies
Q: Ashkabat is the capital of which country? A: Turkmenistan
Q: In which city is the Roslin Institute, the location of the cloning of 'Dolly the Sheep'? A: Edinburgh
Q: Which structure links the English towns of Barton and Hessle? A: Humber Bridge
Q: Which English football league team play their home games at Griffin Park? A: Brentford
Q: Since 1991, where has the annual Crufts Dog Show taken place? A: NEC Birmingham
Q: "The Impressionist movement got its name from a painting ""Impression Sunrise"" exhibited in 1874; who was the artist?" A: Claude Monet
Q: The young soldier Paul Baumer is the narrator and central character in which 1929 novel? A: All Quiet on the
Q: In which series of children's books, first published in 1930, would you encounter the Blackett family and the Walker family? A: Swallows and
Q: Who played the character Gene Hunt in the UK TV series 'Life on Mars' and 'Ashes to Ashes'? A: Phillip Glenister
Q: Who starred in the TV series Tarzan between 1966 and 1969? A: Ron Ely
Q: What does the Spanish word 'tapas' literally mean? A: 'Cover' or 'lid'
Q: Hindu god Brahma emerged from which part of the body of Vishnu? A: The navel
Q: What is the capital of St Lucia? A: Castries
Q: England's longest waterfall, Cauldron Snout, lies on which river? A: River Tees
Q: What is the name of the longest river in Scotland? A: River Tay
Q: After which chemical element is Argentina named? A: Silver
Q: In Egyptian mythology, who is the sun god? A: Ra
Q: """The course of true love never did run smooth"" is a quotation from which Shakespeare play?" A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM
Q: What is the nickname for New Orleans? A: THE BIG EASY
Q: On which River does Newport, Isle of Wight stand? A: MEDINA
Q: What do the Americans call what we call noughts and crosses? A: TIC TAC TOE
Q: 'I'll be there for you' is the theme tune for which TV programme? A: FRIENDS
Q: Who was the Greek God of Rain and Cupbearer to the Gods, son of King Tros of Troy? A: GANYMEDE
Q: How many days is the gestation period of a domestic dog (5 days either way? A: 60
Q: What is the symbol for the chemical element Iron? A: Fe
Q: Who was on the British Throne in 1720? A: GEORGE I
Q: In which TV drama series would you find the actor Graham Cole? A: THE BILL
Q: In which US State is the highest mountain in America? A: ALASKA
Q: In which English County is Fortheringay Castle? A: NORTHAMPTONSHIRE
Q: 'Up Where We Belong' was an Oscar winning song from which film? A: AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN
Q: Caroline of Brunswick, a German Noblewoman was married to which British King? A: GEORGE IV
Q: Which famous cricketer had the nickname Big Bird? A: JOEL GARNER
Q: From which country does the wine Tokay come? A: HUNGARY
Q: If you suffered from gymnophobia what would your fear be? A: NUDITY
Q: In which war was the Battle of Castillion fought? A: HUNDRED YEAR WAR
Q: "Who composed the opera "" Il Trovatore""?" A: VERDI
Q: Damon Alban, Graham Coton, Alex James and Dave Roundtree were members of which pop group? A: BLUR
Q: What was the previous occupation of actor Clint Eastwood? A: SWIMMING INSTRUCTOR
Q: 'Neither a lender nor a borrower be' is a quotation from which Shakespeare play? A: HAMLET
Q: What is the alternative name for the Gravelly Hill interchange? A: SPAGHETTI JUNCTION
Q: In which year did the Boston Tea Party take place? A: 1773
Q: Drum Majorette was until 1970 the theme tune for which long-running TV programme? A: MATCH OF THE DAY
Q: Who was the Greek Goddess of the Moon, daughter of Hyperion and Thea? A: SELENE
Q: How many days is the gestation period of a domestic cat (5 days either way)? A: 52
Q: "To whom is the following quotation attributed ""A woman is only a woman but a good cigar is a smoke""?" A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: What is the symbol for the chemical element copper? A: Cu
Q: Who was on the British throne in 1320? A: EDWARD II
Q: In which TV drama/soap would you find the actress Deena Payne? A: EMMERDALE
Q: What was the capital of America before Washington DC? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: In which English County is Huntingdon Castle? A: CAMBRIDGESHIRE
Q: 'Take my breath away' was an Oscar winning song from which film? A: TOP GUN
Q: Caroline of Ansbach, a German noblewoman, was married to which British King? A: GEORGE II
Q: Which famous golfer had the nickname Super Mex? A: LEE TREVINO
Q: Who composed the opera Prince Igor? A: BORODIN
Q: What was the previous occupation of the novelist George Orwell? A: POLICEMAN
Q: Who wrote the French Lieutenant's Woman? A: JOHN FOWLES
Q: How many sides has a dodecagon? A: 12
Q: In which year was the General Strike? A: 1926
Q: Who wrote the TV series 'Bread' and 'Butterflies'? A: Carla Lane
Q: How many squares make up a standard Sudoku grid? A: 81
Q: Who was Walter Mondale's female running mate in the 1984 US Presidential election? A: (Geraldine) Ferraro
Q: In which year was Britain's currency decimalised? A: 1971
Q: Which Russian composer 1882-1971, wrote the ballets 'Firebird' and 'Petrushka'? A: (Igor) Stravinsky
Q: Which sea lies between European and Asian Turkey and between the Bosporus and the Dardanelles? A: Marmara
Q: How many squares are visible on a standard Rubik Cube? A: 54
Q: Who wrote the 'Cadfael' series of novels? A: Ellis Peters
Q: Which female candidate was beaten by Nicolas Sarkozy in the 2007 French Presidential election? A: (Segolene) Royale
Q: In which South American country is Europe's Spaceport, Kourou? A: French Guiana
Q: Name the famous American pioneer who was involved in marking out the Wilderness Trail in the west and founded the first settlement in Kentucky which was named after him? A: Daniel Boone
Q: Keswick stands at the northern end of which Lake District lake? A: Derwent Water
Q: Which is the longest London Underground line? A: Northern
Q: Which sea lies to the northwest of the Crimea? A: Sea of Azov
Q: Which general defended Moscow from the Germans in 1941? A: Zhukov
Q: Which company produces the fragrances 'Opium' and 'Kouros'? A: Yves St Laurent
Q: Distances from Paris are measured from Kilometre Zero, at which building is this situated? A: Notre Dame
Q: In the 'Goon Show', what is the name of the blustering major? A: Bloodnock
Q: Which singer had a number 1 hit album in 2008 entitled 'Home Before Dark'? A: Neil Diamond
Q: Glenridding stands at the southern end and Pooley Bridge at the northern end of which Lake District lake? A: Ullswater
Q: Which Russian composer 1844-1908, wrote the operas 'The Snow Maiden' and 'The Golden Cockerel'? A: Rimsky-Korsakov
Q: Name the 14 year old British girl who won the Wimbledon Girl's Championship in 2008. A: Laura Robson
Q: Which river forms part of the border between Namibia and South Africa? A: Orange
Q: Which Danish born physicist won the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1922 and devised an atomic model? A: Niels Bohr
Q: From what is the Indian dish dhal made? A: Lentils
Q: Which newspaper was founded in 1909, merged with the Daily Graphic and finally closed and merged with the Daily Mail in 1971? A: Daily Sketch
Q: After which legendary character is the airport at Finningley near Doncaster named? A: Robin Hood
Q: Which weekly newspaper was founded by Robert Maxwell in 1990 and folded in 1998 when owned by the Barclay brothers? A: The European
Q: Which parallel forms much of the border between Canada and the USA? A: 49th
Q: Which Hollywood Producer produced the films King of Kings (1960) El Cid and 55 Days at Peking? A: SAMUEL BRONSTON
Q: Brian Fletcher won the Grand National on Red Rum and which other horse? A: RED ALLIGATOR
Q: Who in 1965 was the first presenter of Tomorrow's World? A: RAYMOND BAXTER
Q: In which English Country did the Battle of Flodden Field take place? A: NORTHUMBERLAND
Q: What is the hunting dog usually a cross between a collie and a greyhound called? A: LURCHER
Q: At which location in London is the Mermaid Theatre? A: PUDDLE DOCK
Q: The Battle of Sedgemoor took place in which English County? A: SOMERSET
Q: What kind of creature was the extinct quagga? A: (Wild) HORSE
Q: Hairdresser Raymond who died in 1992 owned two Grand National winners, Ayala and which other? A: RAG TRADE
Q: Michael Winner writes a column called Winners Dinners for which Sunday newspaper? A: SUNDAY TIMES
Q: How many US Presidents were assassinated during the reign of Queen Victoria? A: 2
Q: "How many engines were there on Howard Hughes ""Spruce Goose""?" A: 8
Q: Which bridge in Scotland replaced the much loved ferry at the Kyle of Lochalsh? A: SKYE
Q: Who was the first US President to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: Who wrote the recent best seller Devil May Care? A: SEBASTIAN FAULKS
Q: Which famous aircraft producer designed the synchronized machine gun to fire through propeller blades? A: FOKKER
Q: Who is the Secretary of State for Children Schools and Families? A: ED BALLS
Q: The teacher Miss Hooley and P.C. Plum appear in which children's TV series? A: BALAMORY
Q: What was the name of the 1970 number one hit record by Matthews Southern Comfort which was their only hit? A: WOODSTOCK
Q: Which comic book hero made his debut in issue 27 of Detective in 1939? A: BATMAN
Q: "Who in the 1960's had a number 1 hit with ""Come Outside""?" A: MIKE SARNE
Q: Which sport uses the terms serve, dig and spike? A: VOLLEYBALL
Q: Who was the British Prime Minister at the time of the Suez Crisis? A: ANTHONY EDEN
Q: Who was British Prime Minister at the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: HAROLD MACMILLAN
Q: At which Olympics, city or year, did Eddie the Eagle take part? A: CALGARY
Q: The boundary between Suffolk and Cambridgeshire runs through which racecourse? A: NEWMARKET
Q: Which American comic book hero was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko and first appeared in Marvel Comics in 1962? A: SPIDERMAN
Q: What was Khruschev's first name? A: NIKITA
Q: Who had a number 2 hit in the 60's with Speedy Gonzales? A: PAT BOONE
Q: What was the name of the actor who played Jack Sugden in Emmerdale and who died in July 2008? A: CLIVE HORNBY
Q: "Whose motto is ""Service Above Self ""?" A: ROTARY INTERNATIONAL
Q: Who created the Detective Dangerous Davies as played on television by Peter Davison? A: LESLIE THOMAS
Q: What was the name of the BBC Correspondent who died in July 2008 aged 85? A: CHARLES WHEELER
Q: Who seized power from King Idris in a military coup in 1969? A: GADDAFFI
Q: Who invented the safety pin? A: WALTER HUNT
Q: The Venus de Milo is a statue of which Greek goddess? A: APHRODITE
Q: Which Swiss town is at the foot of the Matterhorn? A: ZERMATT
Q: In which US city is MacArthur Park? A: LOS ANGELES
Q: Lord Lucan and John Stonehouse disappeared in the same year, which? A: 1974
Q: Who played Stephen Ward in the film Scandal? A: JOHN HURT
Q: In which country are the Appenines? A: ITALY
Q: How many players in a baseball team? A: 9
Q: Kyudo is a Japanese form of which field sport? A: ARCHERY
Q: Which is the only London Borough to include land on both sides of the River Thames? A: RICHMOND
Q: Lorena. Ochoa, the world's number one woman golfer, is from which country? A: MEXICO
Q: Which bands two albums to date are 'Employment' and 'Yours Truly, Angry Mob'? A: KAISER CHIEFS
Q: What is the family name of the Royal House of Sweden? A: BERNADOTTE
Q: Who was Emperor of Rome when Boudicca, queen of the Iceni, led her famous revolt? A: NERO
Q: In which year were British women granted full voting rights? A: 1928
Q: There are three snakes native to Britain, the adder, the grass snake and which other? A: THE SMOOTH SNAKE
Q: "Which Romantic artist painted ""Liberty Leading the People""?" A: EUGENE DELACROIX
Q: Phillips Idowu and Nathan Douglas represent Great Britain in which athletics discipline? A: THE TRIPLE JUMP
Q: "The wedding processional known as ""Here Comes the Bride"" is by which famous composer?" A: RICHARD WAGNER
Q: As what is the game of 'petanque' better known? A: BOULES
Q: On which Scottish golf course was the first British Open played in 1861? A: PRESTWICK
Q: Who wrote the Dream of Gerontius which Elgar later set to music? A: CARDINAL NEWMAN
Q: There are three kingdoms in Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland are two. Which is the third? A: MOROCCO
Q: Anthony Kiedis is the lead singer of which US alternative rock band? A: RED HOT CHILLI PEPPERS
Q: Who preceded Robert the Bruce as King of Scotland? A: JOHN BALLIOL
Q: The imp is the symbol of which English city? A: LINCOLN
Q: In which country does the River Danube enter the Black Sea? A: ROMANIA
Q: Which rank in the Royal Navy is the equivalent of an army brigadier? A: COMMODORE
Q: b The drunken midwife Sarah Gamp appears in which novel by Charles Dickens? A: MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT
Q: a By what name is the fruit carambola better known? A: THE STAR FRUIT
Q: "Which detective featured in the film ""The Maltese Falcon""?" A: SAM SPADE
Q: Who succeeded Jon Pertwee as Dr Who? A: TOM BAKER
Q: Which bright orange star is the 'eye' of Taurus the Bull? A: ALDEBARAN
Q: In Norse mythology who killed Baldur with a spear made from mistletoe? A: LOKI
Q: Which large bird of prey, fairly common in Wales, and now becoming more widespread elsewhere, has the Latin name 'milvus milvus? A: THE RED KITE
Q: In which small Middle Eastern Country were women only granted the right to vote in 2006? A: KUWAIT
Q: The artist Matisse was a member of which school of painting? A: FAUVISM
Q: What series of children's books is written by Eoin Colfer? A: THE 'ARTEMIS FOWL' BOOKS
Q: Which British women achieved gold in the 400 metres at the 2007 World Athletics Championships? A: CHRISTINE OHURUOGU
Q: Mendelssohn's 'Wedding March' was. originally written as incidental music for which Shakespeare play in 1842? A: NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: a What is the English name for the constellation Sagittarius? A: THE ARCHER
Q: Who composed the title music for Dr Who? A: RON GRAINER
Q: In music what name is given to a note which is half the length of a crochet? A: QUAVER
Q: "Who was known as ""The Father of Geometry""?" A: EUCLID
Q: To which family of birds does the jay belong? A: CROW
Q: The people of which English county are known as Moonrakers? A: WILTSHIRE
Q: Which American State is known as the 'Garden State'? A: NEW JERSEY
Q: Which rank in the Army equates to a Vice-Admiral in the Royal Navy? A: LIEUTENANT-GENERAL
Q: Gilian Anderson starred as Lady Dedlock in the 2005 BBC adaptation of which story by Charles Dickens? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: The Kiwi fruit is native to which Asian country? A: CHINA
Q: Who writes the books featuring detectives Dalziel and Pascoe? A: REGINALD HILL
Q: Who wrote the novels 'Resurrection Men' and 'Fleshmarket Close'? A: IAN RANKIN
Q: What was the surname of the poet Dante, author of the Divine Comedy? A: ALIGHIERI
Q: What did the British Museum purchase for £35,000 in 1816 from the aristocrat Thomas Bruce? A: The Elgin Marbles
Q: For which cricket county does former England test batsman Mark Ramprakash play? A: Surrey
Q: Which North African dish consists of crushed semolina, which can be steamed and served with vegetables, chicken or fish? A: Couscous
Q: Grand-mal and petit-mal are terms used in connection with which medical condition? A: Epilepsy
Q: The adjective cervine relates to which animals? A: Deer
Q: """Christ in the House of his Parents"" is one of the best known paintings of which artist?" A: Sir John Everett Millais
Q: What is the rank of a British Army officer who wears a crown and two pips on his epaulettes? A: Colonel
Q: Who was the daughter of Zeus and Hera, cupbearer to the gods? A: Hebe
Q: During which monarch's reign did the Act of Union with Scotland take place? A: Queen Anne
Q: What is the SI unit of energy? A: Joule
Q: Who composed the opera 'Albert Herring' in 1947? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: In which town or city is the Fitzwilliam Museum? A: Cambridge
Q: Which British monarch was incarcerated in Pontefract Castle where he died of starvation in January 1400? A: Richard II
Q: Who sang the theme tune to the James Bond film 'The Spy Who Loved Me' in 1977? A: Carly Simon
Q: Which element, atomic number 47, has the highest electrical thermal conductivity of any metal? A: Silver
Q: In which constellation is the star Rigel? A: Orion
Q: What is the highest point in the Peak District? A: Kinder Scout
Q: What was the name of the Cyclops blinded by Odysseus? A: Polyphemus
Q: Which musical features the son's 'I'd Do Anything' and 'Be Back Soon'? A: Oliver
Q: Synovial fluid is a lubricant for which parts of the body? A: Joints
Q: What name is given to a male guinea pig? A: Boar
Q: For which cricket county does England test cricketer Ian Bell play? A: Warwickshire
Q: In the US sitcom 'Frasier' what was Frasier's surname? A: Crane
Q: Who composed the musical work 'Harold In Italy' in 1834? A: Berlioz
Q: Which strait separates Greenland from Canada? A: Davis Strait
Q: Which musical features the songs 'Brush Up Your Shakespeare' and 'From This Moment On'? A: Kiss Me Kate
Q: Which British monarch was murdered at Berkeley Castle in September 1327? A: Edward II
Q: Who sang the theme tune to the James Bond film 'Goldeneye'? A: Tina Turner
Q: Which poisonous element can be either grey, yellow or black and combines with sulphur as realgar? A: Arsenic
Q: "What name meaning ""to hide away"" is given to the books that provide an appendix to the Old Testament in some versions of the Bible?" A: Apocrypha
Q: Which group recorded the albums 'Gaze' and 'Painting It Red' and 'Blue is the colour'? A: Beautiful South
Q: The atmosphere of the planet Mars consists almost entirely of which gas? A: Carbon Dioxide
Q: In Greek mythology who was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter who became the wife of Hades and Queen of the Underworld? A: Persephone
Q: Who won the 2007 Best Actor Oscar for his role in the film 'The Last King Of Scotland'? A: Forest Whitaker
Q: Which horse ridden by Frankie Dettori won the 2007 Epsom Derby? A: Authorized
Q: What is the highest mountain on the Isle of Man? A: Snaefell
Q: Which comedian's real name is Michael Pennington? A: Johnny Vegas
Q: Who composed the opera 'The Rake's Progress' in 1951? A: Igor Stravinsky
Q: Libreville is the capital of which West African country? A: Gabon
Q: What name is given to the larvae of the cranefly? A: Leatherjacket
Q: In which year did the Easter Rising, against British rule in Ireland, take place? A: 1916
Q: Which American President acquired the nickname 'The Gipper'? A: Ronald REAGAN
Q: In a very well-known novel, who owns the house called Manderley? A: MAXIM De WINTER
Q: In WW2, which company made the Halifax bomber? A: HANDLEY PAGE
Q: Sir Joseph Bazalgette contributed to the better health of Londoners by building what? A: The SEWER SYSTEM
Q: What acid is found in rhubarb leaves? A: OXALIC ACID
Q: Who wrote the music for the 1948 film 'Scott of the Antarctic'? A: Ralph VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: Who made a series of television programmes from River Cottage? A: HUGH FEARNLEY WHITTINGSTALL
Q: A sepoy was a soldier from which country? A: INDIA
Q: On a musical score, what does 'da capo' mean? A: FROM THE BEGINNING
Q: In Jules Veme's 'Around the World in 80 Days', Phileas Fogg starts and finishes his journey at which London club? A: The REFORM Club
Q: Which literary work, completed in 1353, contains the tales of ten travellers escaping from the plague in Florence? A: DECAMERON
Q: In a Dickens novel, who lived at Satis House? A: MISS HAVISHAM
Q: Who wrote the medieval poem 'Piers Plowman'? A: WILLIAM LANGLAND
Q: Which actor appeared in the first and the last episodes of 'Grange Hill'? A: TODD CARTY
Q: Which TV cook is married to presenter Fern Britton? A: PHIL VICKERY
Q: Who attempted to assassinate Gerald Ford in 1975? A: (Lynette 'SQUEAKY') FROMME
Q: Who designed the Avro Vulcan Bomber? A: ROY CHADWICK
Q: Who wrote the music for the films 'Dancing with Wolves' and 'Out of Africa'? A: JOHN BARRY
Q: Who was the father of the Virgin Mary? A: Saint JOACHIM
Q: Which famous London club was founded by Italian Francesco Bianco? A: WHITE'S
Q: Architect Frank Matcham (1854-1920) specialized in designing which kind of building? A: THEATRES
Q: In science, what is the name given to a substance with characteristic reactions used as a chemical test? A: REAGENT
Q: What name was given to the proletariat of the French Revolution? A: SANS CULOTTES
Q: Of what institution was Sir John Houblon the first governor in 1694? A: BANK of ENGLAND
Q: Which group had a hit in the 1960's with 'Keep on running'? A: SPENCER DAVIS GROUP
Q: Which number when squared equals half of it cube? A: TWO
Q: Ernest Shepard was the original illustrator of which children's stories? A: WINNIE the POOH
Q: In 1944, in which New Hampshire town was an agreement drawn up to establish the IMF and World Bank? A: BRETTON WOODS
Q: Aravind Adiga won the Man Booker prize for 2008 - what was the title of the book? A: The WHITE TIGER
Q: Who shared the 1901 Nobel Peace Prize (the first) with Frederic Passy, for his work which inspired the creation of the Red Cross and the Geneva Convention? A: HENRI DUNANT
Q: In 1894, Marks and Spencer opened their first 'Penny Bazaar', in which town or city? A: MANCHESTER
Q: In mathematics, what is the correct term for the answer to a multiplication calculation? A: PRODUCT
Q: Harmsen Van der Beek is the original illustrator of which books by Enid Blyton? A: NODDY
Q: Australian Douglas Mawson, 1882-1958, was famous for exploration on which continent? A: ANTARCTICA
Q: Which British bank issued the first credit card in 1966? A: BARCLAYS
Q: Which group had a hit in the 1970's with 'Love Grows Like My Rosemary Grows'? A: EDISON LIGHTHOUSE
Q: In Greek mythology, who was the legendary King of Troy? A: PRIAM
Q: Who was the grandfather of Queen Victoria? A: GEORGE III
Q: Who directed the 2008 film 'Burn after Reading'? A: COEN BROTHERS
Q: Traditional wattle hurdles were made from the wood of which tree? A: HAZEL
Q: Mount Marmolada is the highest peak in which European mountain range? A: DOLOMITES
Q: Which National Trust property in Cheshire includes a mansion and a Tudor hall that was once owned by the Egerton family? A: TATTON PARK
Q: Who founded the Ballet Russe? A: SERGEI DIAGHILEV
Q: Who presented the TV show 'The Human Body'? A: ROBERT WINSTON
Q: In which country did Victoria Adams marry David Beckham? A: IRELAND
Q: On which island of the Philippines is Manila? A: LUZON
Q: What is tocophobia a fear of? A: CHILDBIRTH
Q: How is the plant Lactuca Sativa better known? A: LETTUCE
Q: Who lost most Ladies Singles Finals at Wimbledon in the 1980's? A: CHRIS EVERT
Q: Which famous poet wrote the line 'we are the hollow men'? A: T. S. ELIOT
Q: Which band had a top ten in 1996 with Cosmic Girl? A: JAMIROQUAI
Q: In which Shakespeare play do we find Touchstone, a jester? A: AS YOU LIKE IT
Q: Which author created the fictional detective C Auguste Dupin? A: EDGAR ALLEN POE
Q: Who assassinated the Duke of Buckingham in 1628? A: JOHN FELTON
Q: Who defeated Martina Navratilova in her last Wimbledon Singles Final? A: CONCHITA MARTINEZ
Q: John Crome (1768-1821) founded which School of Painting? A: NORWICH SCHOOL
Q: Which African country takes its name from the Shona for 'house of stone'? A: ZIMBABWE
Q: 'Live Forever' was the first UK top ten single for which band? A: OASIS
Q: King Alexander I, assassinated in Marseilles in 1934, was king of which country? A: YUGOSLAVIA
Q: Air fight pioneer Amy Johnson vanished over which river? A: THAMES
Q: Whish 1996 multi Oscar winning film was based on a novel by Michael Ondaatje? A: THE ENGLISH PATIENT
Q: Which English city has a Railway Station called Forster Square? A: BRADFORD
Q: Which element discovered in 1782 has the symbol Te? A: TELLURIUM
Q: Who wrote the opera Wozzeck in 1922? A: ALBAN BERG
Q: What was the first name of notorious murderer Doctor Crippen? A: HAWLEY
Q: Which monarch was threatened by the Rye House Plot? A: CHARLES II
Q: Alex Waugh, brother of Evelyn, wrote a first novel about life at a public school, what was it? A: THE LOOM OF YOUTH
Q: On which island is Nassau, the capital of the Bahamas? A: NEW PROVIDENCE
Q: Which European city was called Vindobona by the Romans? A: VIENNA
Q: Which Canadian/American novelist won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1976? A: SAUL BELLOW
Q: Who won the Best Director Oscar for the film 'Out of Africa'? A: SYDNEY POLLACK
Q: Which vitamin is also called tocopherol? A: VITAMIN E
Q: Which British monarch produced the most legitimate children? A: EDWARD I
Q: Which element discovered in 1879 has the symbol Tm? A: THULIUM
Q: What was Spike Milligan's Christian name? A: TERENCE
Q: What poet wrote this epitaph for his own grave 'Cast a cold eye, on life, on death. Horseman pass by'? A: W B YEATS
Q: Who presented the first ever edition of ITV's News at Ten? A: ALASTAIR BURNET
Q: Which country has a wine growing area called O'Higgins? A: CHILE
Q: Which modern country was called Dacia by the Romans? A: ROMANIA
Q: Where is Rick Stein's famous seafood restaurant? A: PADSTOW
Q: In which African country is the deep water port of Lobito? A: ANGOLA
Q: Who sang the theme song for the Bond film 'Tomorrow Never Dies'? A: Sheryl Crow
Q: Which was the first song played on BBC Radio One? A: Flowers in the Rain
Q: What title is earned by a Moslem who makes a pilgrimage to Mecca? A: Hajj
Q: Rothesay is the principal town of which island? A: Bute
Q: What name was given to the regime in France from July 1940 to August 1944? A: Vichy
Q: Which dish is a confection of sugar, egg yolks and Marsala wine? A: Zabaglione
Q: Sir Titus Salt, the first manufacturer of alpaca fabrics in this country, built a model village to house his employees, what name did he give to it? A: Saltaire
Q: Kerry McCarthy, Doug Naysmith, Dawn Primarolo and Stephen Williams are MPs representing constituencies in which city? A: Bristol
Q: Who wrote 'Crime and Punishment' and 'The Brothers Karamazov'? A: Dostoyevsky
Q: Cotopaxi in Ecuador and Paricutin in Mexico are examples of which geographical feature? A: Volcano
Q: Of what is brontophobia the fear? A: Thunder
Q: Aurora was the Roman goddess of the dawn, who was her Greek counterpart? A: Eos
Q: Who wrote 'She' and 'King Solomon's Mines'? A: H Rider Haggard
Q: At which port do the rivers Rhine and Maas reach the sea? A: Rotterdam
Q: Jenny Willott, Julie Morgan, Alun Michael and Kevin Brennan are MPs representing constituencies in which city? A: Cardiff
Q: Which is the principal town on the Isle of Skye? A: Portree
Q: What title is earned by a Moslem who learns the entire Koran? A: Hafiz
Q: What is the largest number on a standard backgammon doubling dice? A: 64
Q: What was the title of the aptly named first song to be played on MTV in Britain? A: Video Killed the Radio Star
Q: The theme to which Bond film was sung by A-Ha? A: Living Daylights
Q: Which best-selling author wrote the novel 'A Painted House'? A: John Grisham
Q: Which radio station became BBC Radio Two in 1967? A: Light Programme
Q: Who painted 'The Bathers' and 'Umbrellas'? A: Renoir
Q: In the context of law and order, for what does the C stand in the acronym ACPO? A: (Association of) Chief
Q: Which building stands at 350, Fifth Avenue, New York? A: Empire State
Q: To which family of fish does the minnow belong? A: Carp
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Sir Lancelot Gobbo appear? A: Merchant of Venice
Q: Who is MP for Redditch? A: Jacqui Smith
Q: Who was the first Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury, consecrated in 1533 during the reign of Henry 8th? A: Thomas Cranmer
Q: Who had hit records with The Move, ELO and Wizzard? A: Roy Wood
Q: Knightsbridge and Hyde Park Corner are stations on which London Underground line? A: Piccadilly
Q: Smithsonite is a carbonate of zinc, by what name is it commonly known? A: Calamine
Q: Vulcanisation involves heating rubber latex with which yellow, very brittle, fusible and inflammable non-metallic element? A: Sulphur
Q: Marble Arch and St Paul's are stations on which London Underground line? A: Central
Q: Which religion believes in the Four Noble Truths? A: Buddhism
Q: Admiral Togo was a commander at which major battle of 1905? A: Tsushima
Q: Who is the clown in Shakespeare's 'Twelfth Night'? A: Feste
Q: Which radio station became BBC Radio Four in 1967? A: The Home Service
Q: The world's first iron bridge was completed in 1781 at Coalbrookdale, which river does it span? A: Severn
Q: Vladimir Ashkanazy plays which musical instrument? A: PIANO
Q: What was founded by the Rev. William and Catherine Booth in 1878? A: SALVATION ARMY
Q: What is/was a seller of Papal indulgences called? A: A PARDONER
Q: By what name was the singer Ronnie Wycherley better known? A: BILLY FURY
Q: "Which Italian wrote the opera ""La Boheme""?" A: PUCCINI
Q: "Who wrote the book ""The Brothers Karamazov""?" A: DOSTOYEVSKY
Q: What did William Addis invent whilst in Newgate Prison? A: THE TOOTHBRUSH
Q: In mythology, which winged horse did Bellerophon ride? A: PEGASUS
Q: Who was the last prisoner in Spandau Jail, Berlin? A: RUDOLPH HESS
Q: In children's literature, which car did Commander Caractacus Potts drive? A: CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG
Q: "What was the first name of the character ""Rigsby"" in the TV comedy ""Rising Damp""?" A: RUPERT
Q: "Who designed the statue ""Angel of the North"" which stands alongside the M1 motorway?" A: ANTHONY GORMLEY
Q: What was the first name of the boxer Sonny Liston? A: CHARLES
Q: "Who wrote the 1930's books ""Tropic of Cancer"" and ""Tropic of Capricorn""?" A: HENRY MILLER
Q: "In which European city is the criminal society called the ""Camorra"" based?" A: NAPLES
Q: "Who said ""In the Country of the Blind The One-eyed Man is King?" A: H G WELLS
Q: On a dartboard which number is between 18 and 13? A: 4
Q: Paul Tortlellier and Mistislav Rostropovich are associated with which musical instrument? A: THE CELLO
Q: "Who played Jim Morrisson in Oliver Stone's film ""The Doors""?" A: VAL KILMER
Q: What is produced in a Bessemer Converter? A: STEEL
Q: What metal is always present in alloys called amalgams? A: MERCURY
Q: "Whose ghost was at the dinner table in ""Macbeth""?" A: BANQUO'S
Q: Who, apart from Geoff Hurst, scored in the 1966 World Cup Final for England? A: MARTIN PETERS
Q: "Which U.S. state known as ""The Mainland State"" or ""The Last Frontier"" has the forget-me-not as its state flower?" A: ALASKA
Q: What, in Buddhist theology, is the highest level of attainment? A: NIRVANA
Q: "Which music legend was the subject of Don McLean's song - ""American Pie""?" A: BUDDY HOLLY
Q: "Who said ""A week in politics is a long time""?" A: HAROLD WILSON
Q: What was the first planet to be discovered with a telescope? A: URANUS
Q: "Which famous jazz singer was known as ""Lady Day""?" A: BILLIE HOLIDAY
Q: What is the capital city of the American state of Wyoming? A: CHEYENNE
Q: What type of whisky has the same name as a French royal family? A: BOURBON
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Mansfield Park""?" A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: Name the year in which Freddie Mercury died, hostage Terry Waite was released and No. 10 Downing Street was mortar bombed? A: 1991
Q: "Which day of the week is traditionally associated with ""Ladies Day"" at Royal Ascot?" A: THURSDAY
Q: What is the only non-fictional country visited by Gulliver in his travels? A: JAPAN
Q: What was the first Elvis Presley single to reach number one in the UK? A: ALL SHOOK UP
Q: In computing, how many bytes are there in a kilobyte? A: 1024
Q: In science, what is the S.I unit of energy? A: JOULE
Q: How many chromosomes are there in the female sex cell? A: 23
Q: On which island did the Dodo become extinct in about 1681? A: MAURITIUS
Q: "Which English romantic poet, (1795-1821), wrote the poem, ""The Eve of St Agnes""?" A: JOHN KEATS
Q: In which country was Adolf Eichmann a resident, when captured by the Israelis in 1960? A: ARGENTINA
Q: Which famous actor of his day, played the Hunchback of Notre Dame in the 1923 silent film? A: LON CHANEY
Q: "What is the main ingredient in the Indian drink, ""lassi""?" A: YOGHURT
Q: Kerstin Hakansson, winner of the first Miss World contest, came from which country? A: SWEDEN
Q: Russell is the family name of which English Duke? A: DUKE OF BEDFORD
Q: Name the American winner of the 1973 Miss World contest, whose reign lasted just 104 days, before she was sacked, following a series of high profile liaisons with various famous men of the day. A: MARJORIE WALLACE
Q: John Jarndyce and Honoria, Lady Dedlock are major characters in which Dickens novel? A: BLEAK HOUSE
Q: "Who played Esmeralda, to Charles Laughton's Quasimodo, in the 1939 version of the film, ""The Hunchback of Notre Dame""?" A: MAUREEN O'HARA
Q: "Which English poet, (1770-1850), wrote, ""Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey?" A: WILLIAM WORDSWORTH
Q: The Guardian cartoonist, Steve Bell, always portrayed which politician with his Y-fronts outside his trousers? A: JOHN MAJOR
Q: Which American Formula One motor racing driver, heir to part of the vast family fortune made in the cosmetics industry, won the British Grand Prix in 1973, but was killed during the South African Grand Prix, in 1974? A: PETER REVSON
Q: A person who writes the music for an opera is called a composer. What name is given to the person who writes the words? A: A LIBRETTIST
Q: "Which famous historical event was featured in the novel, ""Lorna Doone""?" A: THE MONMOUTH REBELLION
Q: "In the TV comedy series, ""Absolutely Fabulous"", which actress played the part of Edina's dim-witted assistant, ""Bubble""?" A: JANE HORROCKS
Q: What is the name of the Australian actor/comedian who created the character Dame Edna Everage? A: BARRY HUMPHRIES
Q: Which British city was once said to be famous for Jam, Jute and Journalism? A: DUNDEE
Q: The author, George Orwell was shot in the throat whilst fighting in which war? A: SPANISH CIVIL WAR
Q: Which heavyweight boxing World Champion was born in Brockton Massachusetts in 1923, and died in a plane crash in 1969? A: ROCKY MARCIANO
Q: Although losing all three fights, which British boxer, between 1973 and 1975, went the distance with Joe Frazier and twice with Muhammed Ali? A: JOE BUGNER
Q: In which Yorkshire town was the opera singer Lesley Garrett born in 1955? A: DONCASTER
Q: What is the name of the drunken, uncouth character, created by Barry Humphries, who is the Australian cultural attaché and minister for the arts? A: SIR LES PATTERSON
Q: "Which actress played the part of Brenda Furlong in the TV comedy series, ""Dinner Ladies""? The same actress also wrote and produced the series." A: VICTORIA WOOD
Q: Which Dickens novel features the Gordon anti Catholic riots in London in 1780? A: BARNABY RUDGE
Q: What name is given to the members of the religious denomination, founded in the 17th century, who are also known as The Society of Friends? A: QUAKERS
Q: "Which disease, the victims of which are nearly always men, (females are asymptomatic carriers of the disorder), is sometimes known as ""The Royal Disease""?" A: HAEMOPHILIA
Q: In which country was the British Formula One racing driver Jim Clark killed in 1967? A: GERMANY
Q: The West Indian island of Hispaniola consists of The Dominican Republic and which other country? A: HAITI
Q: Which common spring flower has the Latin name Galanthus? A: SNOWDROP
Q: Made in 1961, what was the last film of both Marilyn Monroe and Clark Gable? A: THE MISFITS
Q: Which famous American jazz singer was born Eleanora Fagan in Baltimore in 1915? A: BILLIE HOLIDAY
Q: Where are Trinity, Michaelmas and Hilary used as divisions of time? A: Oxford
Q: Who was the Roman god of sleep? A: Somnus
Q: The star Regulus is in which constellation? A: Leo
Q: The Pleiades are in which constellation? A: Taurus
Q: Who wrote the play 'The Cherry Orchard'? A: Anton Chekhov
Q: Who was the wife of Henry II? A: Eleanor of Aquitaine
Q: Where in the UK are the towns of Sandown and Shanklin? A: Isle of Wight
Q: In which county is Taunton? A: Somerset
Q: In which city is the Ferens Art Gallery? A: Hull
Q: In which city is the Mappin Art Gallery? A: Sheffield
Q: Which football team is nicknamed the Seagulls? A: Brighton and Hove Albion
Q: Which sport is played for the Corbillon Cup? A: Table Tennis
Q: Who composed the opera Aida? A: Verdi
Q: What was the surname of Malcolm X? A: Little
Q: What is the chemical symbol for arsenic? A: As
Q: What was the name of the first space shuttle to travel in space? A: Columbia
Q: What is the SI unit of inductance? A: The Henry
Q: Who formulated the laws of electromagnetism? A: Faraday
Q: Which fictional character's first name was Endeavour? A: Inspector Morse
Q: Who composed the Emperor Concerto? A: Beethoven
Q: Who composed the Clock Symphony? A: Haydn
Q: Which children's book was subtitled There and Back Again? A: The Hobbit
Q: What was the nickname of gangster George Nelson? A: Babyface
Q: What is the currency of China? A: Yuan
Q: What subject was added as a Nobel Prize in 1969? A: Economics
Q: Which philosopher founded the Stoics? A: Zeno
Q: Which philosopher founded the Cynics? A: Antisthenes
Q: Who killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914? A: Gavrillo Princip
Q: What is the opposite of zenith? A: Nadir
Q: What is the opposite of perihelion? A: Aphelion
Q: Which cathedral has the tallest spire in England? A: Salisbury
Q: In which year was the Battle of Trafalgar? A: 1805
Q: In which year was the Battle of Agincourt? A: 1415
Q: At which racecourse is the St Leger run? A: Doncaster
Q: Which salad vegetable is one of the main ingredients of the Greek sauce, Tzatziki? A: CUCUMBER
Q: "Who sang the theme song for the 1974 Bond film, ""The Man with the Golden Gun""?" A: LULU
Q: Which army officer, later a Confederate General led the attack, which captured John Brown and his band of rebels at Harpers Ferry in 1859? A: ROBERT E LEE
Q: "The film, ""Bridget Jones's Diary"" was based on the novel by which English authoress?" A: HELEN FIELDING
Q: Which Lancashire wicketkeeper scored a century in only his 4th first class match in 1987? A: WARREN HEGG
Q: Nollywood is the colloquial name given to the film industry of which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: "Which British comedian used the catchphrase, ""Can you hear me mother""?" A: SANDY POWELL
Q: At which location did Captain Matthew Webb die in 1883? A: NIAGARA FALLS
Q: Which airline, founded as Jersey European Airways in 1979, has its largest base at Southampton Airport? A: FLYBE
Q: "The TV detective series, ""Cold Case"" deals with unsolved murders in which American city?" A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: The first stations on the three railway lines out of which Scottish city are Beauly, Carrbridge and Nairn? A: INVERNESS
Q: King Gama and King Hildebrand are monarchs in which Gilbert and Sullivan opera? A: PRINCESS IDA
Q: The first stations on the four railway lines out of which city are Saxilby, Hykeham, Metheringham and Market Rasen? A: LINCOLN
Q: Who is the head of the CSI team, in the TV series of that name? The series is set in Las Vegas, and the character played by American actor, William Petersen. A: GIL GRISSOM
Q: In which Commonwealth country is the low cost airline, Virgin Blue based? A: AUSTRALIA
Q: In which Canadian province is the city of Niagara Falls? A: ONTARIO
Q: Which colloquial name is given to the Pakistani film industry, after the city where it is based? A: LOLLYWOOD
Q: """The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole"", was written by which English authoress?" A: SUE TOWNSEND
Q: What was the name of the general, and political leader, who led the Mexican forces at the Battle of the Alamo in 1836? A: ANTONIO SANTA ANNA
Q: Which Ivy League university is situated in the city of Ithaca, in New York state? A: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
Q: "Name the actress, who played the part of Nurse Chappel in the original TV series, ""Star Trek"", and married the creator Gene Roddenberry in 1969." A: MAJEL BARRETT
Q: "The Carly Simon song, ""Nobody Does It Better"", was the theme song for which 1977 Bond film?" A: THE SPY WHO LOVED ME
Q: When served with an alcoholic drink, what is the Turkish word for appetisers or small dishes, equivalent to the Spanish word Tapas? A: MEZE
Q: Whom did Bernard Montgomery replace as head of the Eighth Army in North Africa in 1942? A: CLAUDE AUCHINLECK
Q: What name is given to the large cask which holds 54 imperial gallons of beer? A: A HOGSHEAD
Q: Elected to office in November 2008, who is currently the Prime Minister of New Zealand? A: JOHN KEY
Q: Standing on the shores of Loch Linnhe, which Scottish town lies at the southern end of the Great Glen? A: FORT WILLIAM
Q: "In the 1995, Wallace and Gromit film, ""A Close Shave"", what is the name of Wendoline's robot dog?" A: PRESTON
Q: The New Hebrides Condominium changed its name to which present title when it became independent in 1980? A: VANUATU
Q: In which position does England Rugby Union international Lee Mears play? A: HOOKER
Q: What is the family name of the Duke of Northumberland, who resides in Alnwick Castle? A: PERCY
Q: At which North West University is the Robert Powell theatre, in the city of his birth? A: SALFORD
Q: "Paula Dobriansky, the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, coined the phrase ""Cedar Revolution"" to describe events in 2005 in which country?" A: LEBANON
Q: "In which soap opera did Summer Strallen appear, before playing Maria in ""The Sound of Music"" in the West End?" A: HOLLYOAKS
Q: Victor Yushchenko was elected President of which country in 2005, mainly due to a series of protests known as the Orange Revolution? A: UKRAINE
Q: A theatre in Sale, Greater Manchester, his birthplace, is named after which Robert, a two- time Oscar winning screenwriter? A: ROBERT BOLT
Q: Which members of the aristocracy reside at Arundel Castle in Sussex? A: DUKE OF NORFOLK
Q: The Pacific Islands nation of Tuvalu was known by which name until becoming independent in 1974? A: THE ELLICE ISLANDS
Q: "What is the name of the bakery, run by Wallace and Gromit in the 2008 film, ""A Matter of Loaf and Death""?" A: TOP BUN
Q: Ben Macdui, at 1309m, is the highest mountain in which Scottish range? A: THE CAIRNGORMS
Q: Which Italian region is the setting for the Inspector Montalban novels by Andrea Camilleri? A: SICILY
Q: "First premiered in 1786, who wrote the music for the opera, ""The Marriage of Figaro""?" A: MOZART
Q: At which London railway station is there a statue of Sir John Betjeman? A: ST PANCRAS
Q: What name is given to the cask, which holds a quarter of a barrel of beer? A: A FIRKIN
Q: "The W.W.II campaign, known as, ""The Battle of the Bulge"", was fought in which area of Europe?" A: THE ARDENNES
Q: In 2007, Lee Mead won a BBC reality contest to play which role? A: JOSEPH
Q: Which is the most recent country to change its currency to the Euro, doing so in January 2009? A: SLOVAKIA
Q: """If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia"", is the first line of which Shakespeare play?" A: THE WINTER'S TALE
Q: In which country are the archaeological sites of Tikal and Yaxha? A: Guatemala
Q: In which country are the archaeological sites of Sipan and Ollantaytambo? A: Peru
Q: Burins, bifaces and scrapers are ancient artefacts made of what? A: Stone
Q: Who was the first signatory of the American declaration of Independence? A: John Hancock
Q: Nelson's tomb stands in St Paul's Cathedral but for whom was it originally made although this person never occupied it? A: Cardinal Wolsey
Q: In which cathedral is William the Conqueror buried? A: Caen
Q: Which type of bird can be Long-toed, Spur-winged, Crowned or Caspian? A: Plover
Q: Which type of bird can be Lappet-faced, White-headed, Hooded or Egyptian? A: Vulture
Q: Longyearbyen is the main town on which island? A: Spitsbergen
Q: Iqaluit is the main town on which island? A: Baffin Island
Q: In which country are the majority of the Tolpuddle Martyrs buried? A: Canada
Q: Which British city was the first in the world to have a registered football club? A: Sheffield
Q: Which breed of dog won Supreme Champion at Crufts in 2008? A: (Giant) Schnauzer
Q: Which British town was invaded by the French in 1797? A: Fishguard
Q: Which organisation is nicknamed the 'Grey Funnel Line'? A: Royal Navy
Q: Natives of which town are known as 'Monkeyhangers'? A: Hartlepool
Q: Which 20th century novel contains the characters Tom Robinson, Dill and Calpurnia? A: To Kill a Mockingbird
Q: In 1992, Margaret Thatcher was made Baroness Thatcher of where? A: Kesteven
Q: The Egyptian god Bastet had the head of which animal? A: Cat
Q: The Hindu god Hanuman has the form of which animal? A: Monkey
Q: Who was the queen of the Brigantes who handed Caractacus over to the Romans? A: Cartimandua
Q: Who was the 3ra century AD queen of Palmyra who led her people to war against Rome? A: Zenobia
Q: Which island lies between, and is connected by causeways to, North Uist and South Uist? A: Benbecula
Q: On which Hebridean island was the BBC programme 'Castaway 2000' set? A: Taransay
Q: By what name is Margaretha Geertruida Macleod (nee Zelle) better known? A: Mata Hari
Q: 'Carve her name with pride' is a book (and film) about which World War II heroine? A: Violette Szabo
Q: Which cartoon character had friends called Velma Dinidey and Daphne Blake? A: Scooby Doo
Q: Which horse won the 2007 Grand National? A: Silver Birch
Q: Who rides the three day eventer, Toytown? A: Zara Phillips
Q: What is the name of the highest point on the Isle of Man? A: Snaefell
Q: Which celebrity won Strictly Come Dancing in December 2007? A: Alesha Dixon
Q: In which town did both Jeffrey Archer and John Cleese grow up? A: Weston Super Mare
Q: Which Jane Austen novel features Mr Knightley and Frank Churchill? A: Emma
Q: Name the son of Charles and Carrie Pooter. A: Lupin Pooter
Q: Who was the principal architect of Liverpool's St George's Hall? A: Harvey Lonsdale Elmes
Q: What is the main ingredient of tofu? A: Soya beans
Q: "For which Rolling Stones hit did David Bowie sing the backing vocal chorus ""I like it""?" A: It's Only Rock 'n' Roll
Q: Which historical event of 1819 is commemorated by a plaque on Manchester's Radisson hotel? A: Peterloo Massacre
Q: Of which country is the Quetzal the unit of currency? A: Guatemala
Q: Sorex Minutus is the Latin name for which British mammal? A: Pygmy Shrew
Q: The Dagmoush Clan run all criminal activities in which Middle East gity? A: Gaza
Q: Which South American country's national airline is called Pluna? A: Uruguay
Q: What do Australian aborigines call Ayers Rock? A: Uluru
Q: Lexico was the original name for which board game? A: Scrabble
Q: Malcolm Morley was the first winner of what in 1984? A: Turner Prize
Q: In which year were women given the vote in the USA? A: 1920
Q: What is the capital of the Yemeni Republic? A: Sana
Q: What is the oldest living species of tree? A: Bristlecone Pine
Q: Algophobia is an irrational fear of what? A: Pain
Q: What type of animal is a bongo? A: Antelope
Q: What annual sporting event first took place at the Kennington Oval in 1872? A: FA Cup Final
Q: Little Nell is a character in which Dickens novel? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: Which freshwater fish has the Latin name Tinca Tinca? A: Tench
Q: Which actor wrote the book The Moon's a Balloon? A: David Niven
Q: Which South American country's national airline is called Varig? A: Brazil
Q: George de Mestral invented what type of fastener in 1948? A: Velcro
Q: Which jockey won the 2007 Derby? A: Frankie Dettori
Q: For what offence was Al Capone jailed? A: Tax evasion
Q: The Ainu are an aboriginal people from which country? A: Japan
Q: What is the state capital of New Mexico? A: Santa Fe
Q: Who created the sculpture of a bird on a pole outside Liverpool Cathedral? A: Tracey Emin
Q: In which year was NATO founded? A: 1949
Q: What was the name of the bank that rogue trader Nick Leeson worked for? A: Barings
Q: What is the capital of the Sultanate of Oman? A: Muscat
Q: What is the largest species of tree, in terms of height and trunk girth? A: Giant Sequoia
Q: The Kookaburra belongs to which family of birds? A: Kingfisher
Q: A pinnate item is what shape? A: Feather
Q: What were the American militiamen called during the War of Independence? A: Minutemen
Q: In which city did Roger Bannister become the first man to break the four minute barrier for the mile? A: Oxford
Q: The Lambeth Walk is a dance from which musical? A: Me and My Girl
Q: Where would you find Moai statues? A: Easter Island
Q: In which year was the International Garden Festival held in Liverpool? A: 1984
Q: Which National Trust property is located adjacent to Liverpool John Lennon Airport? A: Speke Hall
Q: The azalea is a member of which genus of plants? A: Rhododendron
Q: Which town is the administrative HQ of Flintshire? A: Mold
Q: Whose first novel was Buddenbrooks, published in 1901? A: Thomas Mann
Q: In which city was Charles Dickens born? A: Portsmouth
Q: Retinol is another name for which vitamin? A: Vitamin A
Q: Which American state has the nickname the Green Mountain state? A: Vermont
Q: Which mammal is the nearest relative of the giraffe, and is only found in the Democratic Republic of Congo? A: Okapi
Q: Who wrote the novel Agnes Grey, in 1847? A: Anne Bronte
Q: Saffron is obtained from which flower? A: Crocus
Q: Who wrote the poetic drama 'Murder in the Cathedral' in 1939? A: T S Eliot
Q: What is the capital of Venezuela? A: Caracas
Q: Which film star was born on 20 June 1909 in Hobart, Tasmania? A: Errol Flynn
Q: What is the official language of Ethiopia? A: Amharic
Q: Which year saw the culmination and end of the Cuban Missile Crisis? A: 1962
Q: What does the Russian word Pravda mean? A: Truth
Q: How many stars are there on the Australian flag? A: 6
Q: Which country owns the Aland Islands? A: Finland
Q: Lao Tse (or Lauzi) is a central figure of which religion? A: Taoism
Q: Which American film actor who died in 1993 was known principally for his roles in horror films such as 'The Pit and the Pendulum' and 'The Fall of the House of Usher'? A: Vincent Price
Q: What position did Will Sommers hold at the court of Henry VIII? A: Jester
Q: In which New York borough is Greenwich Village? A: Manhattan
Q: In which US state is Palm Springs? A: California
Q: Machu Picchu is a famous ruin in which South American county? A: Peru
Q: On what river does Bristol (UK) stand? A: River Avon
Q: To within one year either way, in which year was Pluto discovered by Clyde Tombaugh? A: 1930
Q: To within one year either way, when was the Sydney Opera House formally opened by Queen Elizabeth II? A: 1973
Q: In which country was Prime Minister Andrew Bonar Law born? A: Canada
Q: What is the literal meaning of the Jewish word 'Kosher'? A: Pure
Q: King George V changed the surname of the British Royal family to Windsor; what had it been previously? A: Saxe-Coburg-Gotha
Q: Name Shirley MacLaine's actor brother. A: Warren Beatty
Q: Which animal married the Owl and the Pussycat in the Edward Lear poem? A: The Turkey
Q: What name is given to the traditional type of folk song sung by Venetian gondoliers? A: Barcarolle
Q: Name the town in California where Clint Eastwood was elected mayor in 1986. A: Carmel(-by-the-sea)
Q: The Irish town of Drogheda stands on which river? A: River Boyne
Q: Saddam Hussein was born in which town? A: Tikrit
Q: Which website was founded by Steve and Julie Pankhurst in 1999? A: Friends Reunited
Q: Which is the largest species of tiger? A: Siberian
Q: Which type of dolphin is most commonly seen in zoos and aquaria? A: Bottlenose
Q: What is the meaning of the word Beijing? A: Northern Capital
Q: The Good Companions (1929) and Dangerous Corner (1932) were both written by whom? A: J B Priestley
Q: All My Sons (1947) and The Misfits (1961) are both plays written by whom? A: Arthur Miller
Q: Which English king is buried in Faversham? A: Stephen
Q: Queen Joan of Navarre was the wife of which English king? A: Henry IV
Q: In which town or city could you consult Mma Ramotswe of the No 1 Ladies' Detective Agency? A: Gabarone
Q: In which county are the Mountains of Mourne? A: Down
Q: Edale is the southern end of which walking trail? A: Pennine Way
Q: Which city hosted the summer Olympic Games of 1912? A: Stockholm
Q: The summer Olympic Games were held in Los Angeles in 1984 and in which other year? A: 1932
Q: The Real Inspector. Hound (1968) and Jumpers (1972) are plays written by whom? A: Tom Stoppard
Q: The Birthday Party (1957) and The Dumb Waiter (1957) are plays written by whom? A: Harold Pinter
Q: Who was the first female to be awarded the Order of Merit? A: Florence Nightingale
Q: Which emperor was shot by a firing squad in 1867? A: Maximilian
Q: When did the Chinese leader Mao Tse Tung die? A: 1976
Q: Who is the author of The Maid of Buttermere and Time to Dance? A: Melvyn Bragg
Q: What breed of dog was the royal hunting dog in ancient Egypt? A: Saluki
Q: The disease hydrophobia is better known as what? A: Rabies
Q: Slimbridge Wildlife Reserve was founded by whom? A: Peter Scott
Q: What was established by the Lateran Treaty of 1929? A: Vatican City
Q: Which well-known song comes from the masque Alfred composed in 1740? A: Rule Britannia
Q: Which award was made to the Unknown Warrior who was buried in Westminster Abbey in 1920? A: Congressional Medal of Honor
Q: In Verdi's opera Rigoletto what is the occupation of the character Rigoletto? A: Jester
Q: The lights on Broadway were put out as a mark of respect following the death of which playwright in November 1950? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: Which is the oldest Formula 1 racetrack that is still in use for grand prix racing? A: Indianapolis, USA
Q: Which Middle East state currently hosts a Formula One race? A: Bahrain
Q: Which TV detective works in the fictional town of Denton? A: Inspector Frost
Q: Which US Marine explorer discovered the wreck of the Titanic? A: Robert Ballard
Q: Which strait separates Italy and Sicily? A: Strait of Messina
Q: In Roman mythology who was the father of Romulus and Remus? A: Mars
Q: What was the name of the Cargo ferry forced aground near Blackpool at the end of January 2008? A: Riverdance
Q: In American football which team won the 2008 Superbowl? A: New York Giants
Q: Which horse won the 2007 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Kauto Star
Q: When Apple introduced the I-phone into the UK in 2007 which was the only mobile phone company licensed to use it? A: 02
Q: Which other city besides Liverpool was designated as European Capital of Culture for 2008? A: Stavanger
Q: Which US state is nicknamed both 'Land of the Red Man' and 'the Sooner State'? A: Oklahoma
Q: In WW2 which company manufactured the Mosquito fighter-bomber? A: De Havilland
Q: Which actor starred in the 1940 pirate film 'The Sea Hawk'? A: ERROL FLYNN
Q: Who was the first Yorkist King of England? A: EDWARD IV
Q: To which family of fish does the dogfish belong? A: SHARK
Q: Which Polish born British novelist spent 10 years sailing between Singapore and Borneo? A: JOSEPH CONRAD
Q: Who was the first Vice President of the USA? A: JOHN ADAMS
Q: Which record holding try scorer became the first man to win 50 caps at Rugby Union for England? A: RORY UNDERWOOD
Q: In Greek mythology who pined away from unrequited love for Narcissus until only her voice was left? A: ECHO
Q: Which artist did Valerie Solanis attempt to murder in 'The Factory'? A: ANDY WARHOL
Q: Which theatre is the London home of the Royal Shakespeare Company? A: THE BARBICAN
Q: The writers C S Lewis and Aldous Huxley both died on the same day in 1963 as which world figure? A: JOHN F KENNEDY
Q: What beverage did Dr John Pemberton of Atlanta, Georgia invent in 1886? A: COCA COLA
Q: Who was the first man to win Olympic Gold medals at 200 and 400 metres? A: MICHAEL JOHNSON
Q: Who was the first person to sail round northern Canada through the Bering Strait in 1906? A: ROALD AMUNDSEN
Q: Who was the creator of the TV series Star Trek? A: GENE RODDENBERRY
Q: Who is the elephant-headed Hindu God of good luck? A: GANESH
Q: In the children's nursery rhymes with what did Jack mend his head? A: VINEGAR AND BROWN
Q: Which French artist, the son of a nobleman, was famous for his paintings and posters of the night life of the Moulin Rouge? A: TOULOUSE-LAUTREC
Q: By what other name is the German Mastiff known? A: GREAT DANE
Q: 'Pt' is the chemical symbol for which element? A: PLATINUM
Q: In Scotland, which soup is traditionally served on Burns Night? A: COCK-A-LEEKIE
Q: Who was the first English King to have held the title Prince of Wales? A: EDWARD II
Q: Which actor starred in the 1952 film 'The Crimson Pirate'? A: BURT LANCASTER
Q: Which English composer wrote the music 'Crown Imperial' for the coronation of George VI? A: WILLIAM WALTON
Q: Which modern capital is built on the site of ancient Carthage? A: TUNIS
Q: Which recording company turned down the Beatles but signed the Rolling Stones? A: DECCA
Q: In Greek mythology who spent 6months of every year in the underworld, a symbolic reference to the germination of seeds and their rebirth every spring? A: PERSEPHONE
Q: Which British author went to Eton and later served with the Indian Imperial Police in Burma? A: GEORGE ORWELL
Q: Which religious figure died in the same week as Princess Diana? A: MOTHER TERESA
Q: What is the Paris Stock Exchange called? A: LA BOURSE
Q: The American movie star Kevin Spacey has been the artistic director of which London Theatre for the past 3 years? A: THE OLD VIC
Q: In the TV series what is the Vicar of Dibley's name? A: GERALDINE GRAINGER
Q: What was the name of the Aztec leader defeated by Cortez? A: MONTEZUMA
Q: Who was the wife of Osiris in Egyptian mythology? A: ISIS
Q: Who was the first to reach Asia by sailing all the way around the Cape of Good Hope? A: VASCO DA GAMA
Q: Catfish Row, Charleston is the setting of which opera? A: PORGY AND BESS
Q: What is the motto of the Prince of Wales? A: ICH DIEN
Q: The city of Durham stands on which river? A: Wear
Q: Who wrote TV scripts under the nom-de-plume 'Gerald Wiley'? A: Ronnie Barker
Q: Which film features the song 'Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend'? A: Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
Q: The Kittiwake belongs to which family of birds? A: Gulls
Q: In 1959 which British city became the first to adopt a post code system? A: Norwich
Q: Which Irish rally driver won the 1964 Monte Carlo Rally driving a Mini Cooper? A: Paddy Hopkirk
Q: Who is the only man to have won both a motorcycling world championship and the Formula 1 World Championship? A: John Surtees
Q: Which car company is named after the founder of Detroit? A: Cadillac
Q: What is the meaning of the German word 'spätlese' as applied to wine? A: Late harvest
Q: On the London Underground map, what colour is the District Line? A: Green
Q: Which common flower has the Latin name 'Bellis Perennis'? A: Daisy
Q: The Oresund Bridge links Copenhagen to which city? A: Malmo
Q: How is World War 2 known to the Russians? A: (Great) Patriotic War
Q: In Texas Hold 'Em poker what follows the 'flop' and the 'turn'? A: The River
Q: Who led the investigations into the Bill Clinton / Monica Lewinsky affair? A: Kenneth Starr
Q: In which TV series did the voice of Michael Angelis replace that of Ringo Starr? A: Thomas the Tank Engine
Q: Ian Kilminster, better known as `Lemmy', is singer with which group? A: Motorhead
Q: Banting, Best and MacLeod are renowned for the discovery of what in 1922? A: Insulin
Q: Which US President was the first to live in the White House? A: John Adams
Q: From which country does the cheese `Manchego' come? A: Spain
Q: Buddy Rich was famous for his playing of which instrument? A: Drums
Q: What name has been used by three Scottish kings, eight Popes and three Russian Tsars? A: Alexander
Q: 'Britain's Got Talent' judge Amanda Holden's first TV appearance was in 1991 on which programme? A: Blind Date
Q: Which football league club moved from Belle Vue and played their first game at the new Keepmoat Stadium on New Year's Day 2007? A: Doncaster Rovers
Q: What is the most famous group of dolmens in England called? A: Stonehenge
Q: What is the familiar name of the garden flower lathyrus odorata? A: Sweet Pea
Q: Which pretender to the English throne styled himself as Richard 4th? A: Perkin Warbeck
Q: What is the meaning of the prefix Kil- or Cill- in Irish place names? A: Church
Q: Which famous aviator and adventurer went missing in the Nevada Desert during September 2007, when the plane he was piloting failed to return? A: Steve Fossett
Q: The law of the sea divides it into three zones, internal Waters, territorial Waters and which other? A: High Seas
Q: Which engineer designed the WW2 fighter plane, the 'Hurricane'? A: Sydney Camm
Q: Who was depicted on the reverse of the last English pound note? A: Sir Isaac Newton
Q: What was invented by the Chinese, imported into Britain from Italy by Charles lst and known to the Arabs as 'sherbet'? A: Ice cream
Q: With which sport is Sir John Sholto Douglas (1844-1900) connected? A: Boxing
Q: Which country imports the biggest volume of Champagne from France? A: Great Britain
Q: What is worn on the feet in a game of street hockey? A: Roller skates
Q: What is the nationality of former Moto GP World Champion Casey Stoner? A: Australian
Q: Who, in 1616, announced important observations on blood circulation? A: William Harvey
Q: Which major city is located on the River Loire, approximately 50 kilometres from the Atlantic coast? A: Nantes
Q: "Who played Yosser Hughes in the acclaimed TV series ""The Boys From The Black Stuff'?" A: Bernard Hill
Q: What is the name of the cyclist from the Isle of Man who won six stages in the 2009 Tour de France? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: Which theatre was Abraham Lincoln attending when he was assassinated? A: Ford
Q: In which city is the tomb of Saint Ignatius Loyola? A: Rome
Q: The character Charlie Hungerford, played by Terence Alexander, appeared in which TV series? A: Bergerac
Q: "Who played Himmler in the 1976 film ""The Eagle Has Landed""?" A: Donald Pleasance
Q: in which 1964 Gerry and the Pacemakers film did Cilla Black appear? A: Ferry Across the Mersey
Q: "Who wrote ""March of the Meanies"" for the Beatles' cartoon film ""Yellow Submarine""?" A: George Martin.
Q: Who is Prime Minister of Russia? A: Vladimir Putin
Q: Which 14th-century English religious reformer was often called The Morning Star of the Reformation? A: John Wycliffe
Q: Which modern-day country is the birthplace of Sigmund Freud? A: Czech Republic
Q: Who was the Greek God of Thunder? A: Zeus
Q: What is the flavour of the liqueur Amaretto? A: Almond
Q: In Egyptian mythology, which God has the head of a crocodile? A: Sobek
Q: "Which Commonwealth country is known as ""The Land of the Long White Cloud""?" A: New Zealand
Q: In which TV series of the 1990s did Sarah Lancashire play a District Nurse? A: Where The Heart Is
Q: Which bird is also called the stormcock? A: Mistle Thrush
Q: "Who painted ""Virgin Of The Rocks"" or ""Madonna Of The Rocks"" between 1483 and 1506?" A: Leonardo Da Vinci
Q: How is the thyroid cartilage better known? A: Adam's Apple.
Q: What is the word for uncoined gold and silver? A: Bullion
Q: Who is the Patron Saint of The Orkneys? It is also the name of the cathedral in Kirkwall. A: St Magnus
Q: What, with vinegar, is added to egg yolk to make mayonnaise? A: (Olive) Oil
Q: Which dessert is obtained from the starch of a palm-tree? A: Sago
Q: What is the name of the aquarium found in Ellesmere Port? A: The Blue Planet
Q: What is the name of the top fashion designer who founder of the Fashion and Textile Museum in London? A: Zandra Rhodes
Q: Who was the first European explorer to cross the Antarctic circle? A: Captain James Cook
Q: With which specific art form do you associate the American Alexander Calder? A: Mobiles
Q: Which county cricket club's HQ was elevated to Test status for the 2009 Ashes series? A: Glamorgan
Q: In the Bible what was the name of Cain's first-born son? A: Enoch
Q: Enoch Powell was MP for which constituency between 1950 and 1974? A: Wolverhampton
Q: Which Wolverhampton Wanderers player scored on his England debut against Scotland at Hampden Park in 1989? A: Steve Bull
Q: In which Spanish city does a famous bull run take place in Italy? A: Pamplona
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol K? A: Potassium
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens does the character Magwitch appear? A: Great Expectations
Q: Which symbol is represented by a figure 8 on its side, known as a lemniscate? A: Infinity
Q: Who won the 2009 Rugby Union World Sevens Cup held in Dubai? A: Wales
Q: Mount Kosciuszko is the highest mountain in which country? A: Australia
Q: What is the collective noun for a group of moles? A: A Labour
Q: Which band had hits with Sad Moon Rising' and 'Proud Mary'? A: Creedence Clearwater Revival
Q: Which TV family live at 742 Evergreen Terrace? A: The Simpsons
Q: Which London tube station has the longest escalator? A: Angel
Q: What is the non-medical name given to people who suffer from kyphosis? A: Hunchback
Q: What is the name of Jupiter's largest moon? A: Ganymede
Q: Who in May 2009 was convicted of the murder of Lana Clarkson? A: Phil Spector
Q: In which city was the Titanic built? A: Belfast
Q: Which saint, whose feast day is 25 July, is the patron saint of travellers, sailors and drivers? A: St Christopher
Q: 'The Arnolfini Marriage' is a famous 1434 painting by whom? A: Jan Van Eyck
Q: What is the nationality of golfer Angel Cabrera? A: Argentinian
Q: Which element has the chemical symbol Na? A: Sodium
Q: In which novel by Charles Dickens does the character Dick Swiveller appear? A: The Old Curiosity Shop
Q: How many operas comprise the Ring Cycle? A: Four
Q: Which sea lies between New Zealand and Australia? A: Tasman Sea
Q: Who was Prime Minister of Britain at the time of King Edward VIII's abdication in 1936? A: Stanley Baldwin
Q: In fiction, who lives at 4 Privet Drive, Little Whinging? A: Harry Potter
Q: What type of headgear is named after a hatmaker born in New Jersey in 1830? A: Stetson
Q: What is the name of the planet discovered in 1781 by William Herschel? A: Uranus
Q: Which US actress, star of TV and films, died in June 2009 in Santa Monica, aged 62? A: Farrah Fawcett
Q: Who did Jenny Von Westphalen marry in 1843? A: Karl Marx
Q: Which French port was the Titanic's first port of call after it left Southampton? A: Cherbourg
Q: Who was the Roman goddess of love? A: Venus
Q: For which newspaper did Superman work? A: Daily Planet
Q: In 1904, which term was used to describe the unofficial alliance between France and Britain? A: ENTENTE CORDIALE
Q: Valparaiso is a city and port in which South American country? A: CHILE
Q: Daniel Deronda was the last novel written by which English novelist? A: GEORGE ELIOT
Q: Playing the zither brought fame to which female musician? A: SHIRLEY ABICAIR
Q: Evelyn Glennie achieved musical fame as what type of musician? A: PERCUSSIONIST
Q: Which country does footballer Michael Essien represent at international level? A: GHANA
Q: Confessions of an English Opium Eater, was a work by which essayist? A: THOMAS DE QUINCEY
Q: Paramaribo is a city and port in which South American country? A: SURINAME
Q: What name is given to inhabitants of Los Angeles? A: ANGELENOS
Q: Which golf course is situated at Virginia Water? A: WENTWORTH
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of the harvest? A: DEMETER
Q: Which series of wars lasted from 1808 to 1814? A: PENINSULAR WARS
Q: In which English county is Caister-on-Sea? A: NORFOLK
Q: Who wrote the poem The Deserted Village? A: OLIVER GOLDSMITH
Q: What was the name of the first computer to beat a chess champion? A: DEEP BLUE
Q: Which actor and comedian had a hit record in 1975 with The Ugly Duckling? A: MIKE REID
Q: In which English county is Chipping Norton? A: OXFORDSHIRE
Q: Which 1990 film earned Kathy Bates a Best Actress Oscar? A: MISERY
Q: Which golf course is situated in Sutton Coldfield? A: THE BELFRY
Q: Who was the female presenter of the 1970s TV show `Tiswas'? A: SALLY JAMES
Q: In which Dickens novel do Daniel and Mrs Quilp appear? A: THE OLD CURIOSITY
Q: Whom did Malcolm Williamson succeed as master of the Queens Music? A: SIR ARTHUR BLISS
Q: Which German philosopher wrote Critique of Pure Reason? A: IMMANUEL KANT
Q: In 'The Wizard of Oz' what did Dorothy have to say to get back to Kansas? A: THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE HOME
Q: Which German theoretical physicist was the best known for enunciating the 'uncertainty principle'? A: WERNER HEISENBERG
Q: What disease did Robert the Bruce die of? A: LEPROSY
Q: Which Australian wicket-keeper and batsman hit 100 sixes in his test march career? A: ADAM GILCHRIST
Q: Who was the conductor of the Halle orchestra for nearly three decades? A: SIR JOHN BARBIROLLI
Q: Which Dickens novel features Dotheboys Halls? A: NICHOLAS NICKLEBY
Q: Which actor played the part of Captain Smith in the 1997 film `Titanic'? A: BERNARD HILL
Q: In Benny Hill's 1971 hit, how old was 'Ernie, The Fastest Milkman in the West'? A: 52
Q: What term is used for a fear of lightning? A: ASTRAPHOBIA
Q: What is the English translation of the Latin word 'Alias'? A: OTHERWISE
Q: In which 1980s TV sit-com did Brenda and Malcolm enjoy ornithology? A: WATCHING
Q: I In which year was the Piper Alpha oil rig disaster? A: 1988
Q: In which year was the Hungerford massacre? A: 1987
Q: In the 1970s TV sit-corn Please Sir, what was the name of the caretaker? A: POTTER
Q: Which rugby Super League team play at The Brewery Field? A: CELTIC CRUSADERS
Q: The Wasp Factory, published in 1984, was the first novel by which writer? A: IAIN BANKS
Q: Complete the line from this Frankie Valli hit, 'Oh what a night, last December back in ' A: 63
Q: How many players are there in a Gaelic Football team? A: 15
Q: Which line on the London Underground map is represented in red? A: CENTRAL LINE
Q: The song 'You'll be in my heart', comes from which Disney film? A: TARZAN
Q: What was the first name of the Duke of Wellington? A: Arthur
Q: The commercial name of which fruit cordial is derived from the Latin for blackcurrant? A: Ribena
Q: Which famous jazz club is in Frith Street, London? A: Ronnie Scott's
Q: Who invented the ballbarrow and the `Airblade' hand-drier amongst many other things? A: James Dyson
Q: What is the capital of the Italian region of Lombardy? A: Milan
Q: Which actor plays the title role in the Harry Potter films? A: Daniel Radcliffe
Q: Pope Benedict 16th was Archbishop of which city? A: Munich
Q: Which aircraft was designed initially by the British Aircraft Corporation as a replacement for the Canberra but was cancelled by the Labour Government in April 1965? A: TSR 2
Q: Which car company was formed in 1908 by the merger of Buick and Oldsmobile? A: General Motors
Q: In which modem day country is the site of the Battle of Blenheim? A: Germany
Q: Which famous singer was once married to Renate Blauel? A: Elton John
Q: From which country does the popular Christmas plant, the Poinsettia, originate? A: Mexico
Q: The tune 'Johnny Todd' was the theme to which TV programme? A: Z Cars
Q: Which is the shortest book in the Bible having only one chapter of twenty-one verses? A: Obadiah
Q: Piers Morgan is a former editor of which national daily newspaper? A: Daily Mirror
Q: Which children's character was created by Jean de Brunhoff? A: Babar
Q: A bipolar illness is another name for what? A: (Manic) Depression
Q: A Winter Banana is a variety of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: Joey Bishop, who died in October 2007, was the last survivor of a group of people known by which name? A: The 'Rat Pack'
Q: Of which Oscar Wilde play is Mrs Arbuthnot the title character? A: A Woman of No Importance
Q: The pengo, subject to massive inflation, was the pre- World War 2 currency unit of which European country? A: Hungary
Q: In which city is the Nobel Peace Centre? A: Oslo
Q: Who released the new album 'Together through Life' and as a result has become the oldest male to have a no 1 hit album in Britain? A: Bob Dylan
Q: In 1650 James Ussher calculated the date of the origin of the Earth, according to Biblical chronology, as 4004BC. Of where was Ussher the Archbishop? A: Armagh
Q: The Giotto space probe was launched in 1986 specifically to examine what? A: Halley's Comet
Q: Which London museum was originally called the Museum of Ornamental Art? A: Victoria & Albert
Q: Which is the longest river in Northern Ireland? A: Bann
Q: An isotope of which chemical element was used to poison Alexander Litvinenko? A: Polonium
Q: Which country declared itself the first atheist state when all religion was banned in 1967? A: Albania
Q: What was the original name of the city of Volgograd before it was called Stalingrad? A: Tsaritsyn
Q: After whose Queen is the US state Maryland named? A: Charles I
Q: What do the lachrymal glands produce? A: Tears
Q: Apart from Anne Boleyn, which other wife of Henry 8th was executed? A: Catherine Howard
Q: The Serengeti National Park is in which country? A: Tanzania
Q: Citrus Paradisi is the Latin name for which fruit? A: Grapefruit
Q: In Greek myth, what was the name of the winged horse? A: Pegasus
Q: "Born 1888, who composed the song ""There's No Business Like Show Business""?" A: Irving Berlin
Q: "Who presents BBC Radio Two's ""Good Morning Sunday"" (7 am to 9 am)?" A: Aled Jones
Q: The traditional beef (or hare) stifado stew originated in which country? A: Greece
Q: The kissing disease (infectious mononucleosis) has what common name? A: Glandular fever
Q: Which supermarket chain instituted 'Computers for Schools' in 1992? A: Tesco
Q: Roquefort, Gorgonzola, and Stilton cheeses have what distinguishing factor? A: Blue veins
Q: Which country has had the most wins in the Eurovision Song Contest? A: Ireland
Q: "What was the name of ""RMS Titanic's"" older sister ship?" A: RMS Olympic
Q: "Who played the role of Philip Smith in TV's ""Rising Damp""?" A: Don Warrington
Q: What is the heraldic name for silver? A: Argent
Q: Which radioactive metallic element has the symbol Pu, atomic number 94? A: Plutonium
Q: """New York Mining Disaster 1941"" was the first US release for which group?" A: The Bee Gees
Q: Frank Richard's (Charles Hamilton) 'Billy Bunter' attended which school? A: Greyfriars
Q: Who was assassinated on April 4th 1968 in Memphis, Tennessee? A: Martin Luther King
Q: "Which actor played the role of John McClane in the ""Die Hard"" films?" A: Bruce Willis
Q: Alligator Alley (on Interstate 75) in which US state? A: Florida
Q: Bill Shankly signed Kevin Keegan from which club in 1971? A: Scunthorpe United
Q: In Greek myth, which three-headed dog guarded the gate to Hades? A: Cerberus
Q: "Born 1892, who composed the song ""Miss Otis Regrets""?" A: Cole Porter
Q: In Morse Code, which letter of the alphabet is dot dash? A: The letter A
Q: Originating in Eastern Europe, which pressed meat is seasoned with herbs and spices, smoked, and steamed after smoking? A: Pastrami
Q: Which American (1886-1956) founded the modern frozen food industry? A: Clarence Birdseye
Q: "Which group/act were the first Germans to have a UK No. 1 hit with ""The Model/Computer Love'?" A: Kraftwerk - -
Q: What was the first name of Stretford-born artist L. S. Lowry? A: Laurence
Q: "Which Cunard Line ship first came to the aid of ""RMS Titanic""?" A: RMS Carpathia
Q: Which chemical element has the symbol Hg, atomic number 80? A: Mercury
Q: Magellan, Galapagos, and Chinstrap are varieties of which animal? A: Penguin
Q: Clare Grogan was the lead singer with which '80's band? A: Altered Images
Q: Which Welsh county is known as 'Little England beyond Wales'? A: Pembrokeshire
Q: Which incident occured near to Creddington, Buckinghamshire on 8th August 1963? A: Great Train Robbery
Q: Which aircraft had its first flight in February 1969? A: Boeing 747
Q: Gerry Goffin was the husband of which singer? A: Carole King
Q: Which German battleship is being salvaged from the River Plate? A: Admiral Graf Spee
Q: Which number president of the USA was George W Bush? A: 43
Q: In population terms what is the largest Spanish speaking country in the world? A: Mexico
Q: Who wrote 'A Short History of Nearly Everything' in 2003? A: Bill Bryson
Q: Who was the youngest President of the USA, taking office in 1901? A: Theodore Roosevelt
Q: In which year was NATO formed? A: 1949
Q: Who was the first man seen on Channel 4 TV? A: Richard Whiteley
Q: In which year was Mahatma Gandhi assassinated? A: 1948
Q: How many natural noble gases are there? A: 6
Q: Who played the title role in the 1962 film 'The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner'? A: Tom Courtenay
Q: Which planet is the densest in the Solar System? A: Earth
Q: Which male film star's final film in 1961 was 'The Misfits'? A: Clark Gable
Q: Which planet is thought to be the hottest in the Solar System? A: Venus
Q: Cyril Nicholas Henty-Dodd, a TV star from the1960s, died in August 2009 aged 74. Who was he better known as? A: Simon Dee
Q: In the Royal Navy what is the equivalent rank to a Field Marshal in the Army? A: Admiral of the Fleet
Q: What type of creature is a basilisk? A: Lizard
Q: Which actress has the real name Illiana Lydia Petrovna Mironova? A: Helen Mirren
Q: In the RAF what is the highest non-commissioned officer's rank? A: Warrant Officer
Q: Which Roman road linked Lincoln to Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: Which British coin ceased to be legal tender in 1970? A: Half Crown
Q: The Roman road Ermine Street started in London and terminated in which city? A: York
Q: `If music be the food of love play on' is the opening line of which Shakespeare play? A: Twelfth Night
Q: What was the Christian name of Bertie Wooster's manservant Jeeves? A: Reginald
Q: How many chromosomes does a normal human have? A: 46
Q: Who wrote and composed the opera Oedipus Rex in 1927? A: Stravinsky
Q: What is the most popular hymn written by Henry Francis Lyte, in 1844? A: Abide With Me
Q: Who played the TV detective Maisie Raine? A: Pauline Quirke
Q: Which company makes an MPV ('people carrier') model called Meriva? A: Vauxhall
Q: Which team won the 2009 Rugby League Challenge Cup? A: Warrington Wolves
Q: King Michael abdicated which country's throne in 1947? A: Romania
Q: Which company makes an MPV ('people carrier') model called Carens? A: Kia
Q: Which novelist created the characters of Dalziel and Pascoe? A: Reginald Hill
Q: Who captained the England cricket team to victory in the 2009 Ashes series? A: Andrew Strauss
Q: How many stars make up the European Union flag? A: 12
Q: In which decade of the 20th century were the first Academy Awards (Oscars) ceremony? A: 1920s
Q: Which shipping area is north of Forties? A: Viking
Q: What is another common name for the Araucaria tree? A: Monkey Puzzle
Q: Who won an Oscar for the music for Chariots of Fire in 1981? A: Vangelis
Q: Which shipping area is due north of Trafalgar? A: Fitzroy
Q: W is the symbol for which chemical element? A: Tungsten
Q: Of what was the Vulgate a version? A: The Bible
Q: Which Battle of 1813 is also called the Battle of The Nations? A: LEIPZIG
Q: "What is the title of the poem which begins ""The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck?" A: CASABIANCA
Q: Amadeus I ruled which Country 1870-1873? A: SPAIN
Q: Money Ponds is a suburb of which Australian City? A: MELBOURNE
Q: Tom Jones sang the title song of which Bond film? A: THUNDERBALL
Q: The Bactrian Camel is named after a region in which country? A: AFGHANISTAN
Q: Henry McCarty was the real name of which wild western character? A: BILLY THE KID
Q: Which painter used his neighbours in the village of Cookham as the subjects of many of his works? A: STANLEY SPENCER
Q: From which disease did Oliver Cromwell die? A: MALARIA
Q: From which disease did Robert the Bruce die? A: LEPROSY
Q: "In the film ""Goldfinger"" what was the name of Shirley Eaton's character, fatally painted in gold?" A: JILL MASTERSON
Q: Jack Point is a character in which Gilbert & Sullivan opera? A: YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
Q: David Cameron represents which parliamentary constituency? A: WITNEY
Q: What is the capital city of Chechnya? A: GROZNY
Q: "Which Pre-Raphaelite artist painted ""The Death of Ophelia""?" A: JOHN EVERETT MILLAIS
Q: Who was elected by the Apostles to replace Judas? A: MATTHIAS
Q: Sanditon was the novel left uncompleted at the time of the death of which author? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: The plays 'The Barber of Seville' and 'Marriage of Figaro' were written by whom? A: BEAUMARCHAIS
Q: Who played the Ringo Kid in the 1938 film 'Stagecoach'? A: JOHN WAYNE
Q: 'Ophidian' refers to which kind of creatures? A: SNAKES
Q: Michael Caine won his first Oscar for his role in which film? A: HANNAH AND HER SISTERS
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Les Miserables""?" A: VICTOR HUGO
Q: Which horse racing bet entails a series of a multiple of 5 selections? A: CANADIAN
Q: Which disease used to be called infantile paralysis? A: POLIOMYELITIS
Q: Who is the current presenter of Radio 4s 'Desert Island Discs' A: KIRSTY YOUNG
Q: The Primrose League referred to the supporters of which Prime Minister? A: BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Q: Who composed the incidental music to Ibsen's play 'Peer Gynt'? A: EDWARD GRIEG
Q: The Collegiate Church of St Peter, also known as Westminster Abbey, is an example of what type of place of worship falling under the direct jurisdiction of the British monarch? A: ROYAL PECULIAR
Q: Name the last ruling house of Imperial Germany? A: HOHENZOLLERN
Q: Who exercises power in a stratocracy? A: THE MILITARY
Q: "Who wrote a novel based on the ""Titanic"" story entitled ""Every Man For Himself'?" A: BERYL BAINBRIDGE
Q: The Wokingham Stakes is run annually at which race course? A: (ROYAL) ASCOT
Q: John Galliano is the principal couturier for which fashion house? A: DIOR
Q: Which make of rocket propels research hardware for the European Space Agency? A: ARIANE
Q: In which overseas territory is the launch site for Ariane probes? A: GUYANE
Q: The detective Albert Campion was created by which author? A: MARGERY ALLINGHAM
Q: What substance is the basis of the artists paint tempera? A: EGG YOLK
Q: Who created the Private Detective in Imperial Rome, Marcus Didius Falco? A: LINDSEY DAVIS
Q: Mark Forrest and Nick Bailey are DJs on which Radio Station? A: CLASSIC FM
Q: The first FA Cup Final took place where? A: (Kennington) OVAL
Q: Who was the Republican candidate defeated by Barack Obama in the 2008 Presidential election? A: John McCain
Q: DS Hathaway works with which TV detective? A: Lewis
Q: Which composer, who died 200 years ago in 1809, wrote a series of 'London' symphonies? A: Haydn
Q: Folk/blues singer/guitarist Steven Gene Wold is known by which nickname? A: Seasick Steve
Q: At the 2009 Academy Awards who won the Oscar for Best Director for his film 'Slumdog Millionaire'? A: Danny Boyle
Q: Which Scottish malt whisky, sold in a distinctive bottle, is produced by William Grant's and 'made without compromise'? A: Glenfiddich
Q: A new sculpture, by Spaniard Jaume Plensa, is being completed alongside the M62 in St Helens, what is it called? A: Dream
Q: Which motorway links Southampton and Portsmouth? A: M27
Q: Of which nationalised industry was Peter Parker appointed Chairman in 1976? A: British Rail
Q: Who is the Vice President of the USA? A: Joe Biden
Q: King Charles 2nd founded the Royal Hospital in 1682, how are the occupants known? A: Chelsea Pensioners
Q: In which London Square is the Royal Court Theatre? A: Sloane Square
Q: What name do sailors give to a rope that hoists up a sail? A: Halyard
Q: Which composer, born 200 years ago in 1809, wrote 'Scottish' and 'Italian' symphonies? A: Mendelssohn
Q: The currency of which European country is the kuna? A: Croatia
Q: Snowdonia and the Brecon Beacons are two of the National Parks in Wales, name the third? A: Pembrokeshire Coast
Q: DS Hazel Wallace works with which TV detective? A: Frost
Q: Under the rule of the White Witch it is always winter but never Christmas - in whose novel? A: CS Lewis
Q: Which colourful, noisy bird, found across Europe, northwest Africa and Asia, is found in a woodland habitat? The common variety has the scientific name Garrulus Glandarius? A: Jay
Q: Which jazz musician, he played the tenor sax and clarinet, was nicknamed 'Prez'? A: Lester Young
Q: Whose 'Plays Pleasant' included `Candida' and 'You Never Can Tell'? A: G B Shaw
Q: Which North Yorkshire town is home to the Green Howards Regimental Museum, a castle and Fresh Radio? A: Richmond
Q: What name is given in geometry to two or more shapes that are identical? A: Congruent
Q: The borders of 4 African countries meet at one point, name any one of the 4 countries. A: Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe
Q: Which Scottish malt whisky is produced by 'the sixteen men of Tain'? A: Glenmorangie
Q: What name do sailors give to a rope that pulls a sail tight? A: Sheet
Q: In 'The Box of Delights', the Bishop of Tatchester is rescued from his abductors in time for Christmas - who is the author? A: John Masefield
Q: Which jazz musician, he played the vibraphone, was nicknamed 'Bags'? A: Milt Jackson
Q: The football club BATE Borisov made their debut in the European Champions League this season, in which country do they play? A: Belarus
Q: Which East Yorkshire town has squares called 'Saturday Market' and 'Wednesday Market', England's most impressive church that isn't a cathedral and England's oldest state school? A: Beverley
Q: Which famous novelist wrote the 1948 novel 'The Heart of the Matter' and the 1957 play 'The Potting Shed'? A: Graham Greene
Q: In maths and physics, what name is given to any quantity that has both magnitude and direction? A: Vector
Q: Which UK city is overlooked by Cave Hill? A: Belfast
Q: The 19th century movement for the unification of Italy was known by what name? A: Risorgimento
Q: The cricket pavilion at the Queen's Park Oval has been named after which player, the island's most famous cricketer? A: Brian Lara
Q: The seeds of the nux vomica tree contain which poison? A: Strychnine
Q: Which daily newspaper has a column called 'Mandrake'? A: Telegraph
Q: In which series of films does the character John McClane appear? A: Die Hard
Q: In which city is the TV series 'ER' set? A: Chicago_
Q: Which daily newspaper was first issued in 1900 at the price of ½d (halfpenny) and from 1914 came under the control of Lord Beaverbrook? A: Daily Express
Q: Which is the largest of the asteroids? A: Ceres
Q: In ice skating, what was the maximum mark that a judge could give to a competitor (in competitions up to 2006)? A: Six
Q: Which sea lies between Saudi Arabia and the Sudan? A: Red Sea
Q: Gibraltar Point stands on the English coast, in which county? A: Lincolnshire
Q: Which angel is reputed to have given the word of God (the Koran) to Mohammed? A: Gabriel
Q: Allium porrum is the scientific name of which vegetable? A: Leek
Q: In 'The Simpsons', who is headmaster of the school that Bart attends? A: Seymour Skinner
Q: Which physicist is credited with the 'Quantum Theory'? A: Max Planck
Q: Who created the character 'Mike Hammer'? A: Mickey Spillane
Q: In which city is the TV series 'Gray's Anatomy' set? A: Seattle
Q: Millfield and Downside are public schools in which English county? A: Somerset
Q: Which spirit is found in a Metropolitan cocktail? A: Brandy
Q: Which Shakespeare play begins 'If music be the food of love, play on'? A: Twelfth Night
Q: The angel Moroni appears in which religious book? A: Book of Mormon
Q: Blackpool is found on the English coast as well as in Lancashire, in which county is it? A: Devon
Q: In which month is George Washington Day celebrated in the USA? A: February
Q: According to Arthurian legend, which knight returned Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake? A: Sir Bedivere
Q: In 'The Simpsons', who has two children named Tod and Rod? A: Ned Flanders
Q: Who was the first Prime Minister to live in 10 Downing Street? A: Sir Robert Walpole
Q: In which country did Kaiser Wilhelm II live from 1918 until his death in 1941? A: Netherlands
Q: In which films do the characters Peter Venkman, Ray Stantz, Egon Spengler and Winston Zeddemore appear? A: Ghostbusters
Q: In the 2009 Tour de France which British Olympic medallist finished 4th overall? A: Bradley Wiggins
Q: Who wrote 'The Boys From Brazil'? A: Ira Levin
Q: The life of 15th century French serial killer Gilles de Rais is believed to be the basis of which story by Charles Perrault? A: Bluebeard
Q: In Greek mythology who killed Hector? A: Achilles
Q: Who created the character 'Sam Spade'? A: Dashiell Hammett
Q: What was the real name of the pirate, Blackbeard? A: Edward Teach
Q: In which city were the World Swimming Championships held in July 2009? A: Rome
Q: Wellingborough and Oundle are public schools in which English county? A: Northamptonshire
Q: Which spirit is found in a daiquiri cocktail? A: Rum
Q: In which country did Idi Amin settle and die after his exile from Uganda? A: Saudi Arabia
Q: In the 2009 Tour de France which British cyclist won six stages? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: Which is the only body of water in Scotland to be called a lake as opposed to a loch? A: Lake of Menteith
Q: Who wrote 'Memoirs of a Foxhunting Man'? A: Siegfried Sassoon
Q: Which is the brightest of the asteroids? A: Vesta
Q: In Greek mythology who killed Achilles? A: Paris
Q: Which group released the album 'A Hundred Million Suns'? A: Snow Patrol
Q: Prunus persica is the scientific name of which fruit? A: Peach
Q: Henry Cecil Booth patented which household appliance in 1901? A: Vacuum cleaner
Q: What does the musical term 'pizzicato' mean? A: Plucked
Q: Which word is defined as 'an Arctic plain with permanently frozen subsoil'? A: Tundra
Q: The film Yes Man, starring Jim Carrey, is based on the book of the same name by which modern British writer? A: Danny Wallace
Q: Which fruit has varieties called Concorde, Packham and Cornice? A: Pear
Q: The title of Agatha Christie's novel The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side is taken from a line in which poem? A: The Lady of Shalott
Q: What specific part of the body is affected by blepharitis? A: Eyelid
Q: With which musical instrument is Vladimir Ashkenazy associated? A: Piano
Q: In the Beatles film Yellow Submarine what is the name of the land taken over by the Blue Meanies? A: Pepperland
Q: Which country won the most medals at the Paralympics in Beijing? A: China
Q: Who took over from Dermot Murnaghan as host of BBC2's Eggheads? A: Jeremy Vine
Q: Which European country has land borders with Greece, Turkey, Romania, Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia? A: Bulgaria
Q: In cricket, which English county one-day side is known as the Phantoms? A: Derbyshire
Q: Which artistic movement was led by Henri Matisse and André Derain? A: Fauvism
Q: Which popular garden bird has the Latin name Erithacus rubecula? A: Robin
Q: During which conflict was the battle of Blenheim fought? A: War of the Spanish Succession
Q: Which European city was the destination of the girls (and thus the boys) in the Cliff Richard film Summer Holiday? A: Athens
Q: Which fruit has varieties called Blue Tit, Czar and Early Laxton? A: Plum
Q: Who hosts the new version of ITV's The Krypton Factor? A: Ben Shephard
Q: Which National Trail runs for 177miles from Sedbury Cliffs near Chepstow to Prestatyn? A: Offa's Dyke Path
Q: Which popular garden bird has the Latin name Cyanistes Caeruleus? A: Blue Tit
Q: What specific part of the body is affected by phlebitis? A: Veins
Q: Which country won the most medals overall at the Beijing Olympics in 2008? A: USA
Q: Which European country has land borders with Austria, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Poland and the Czech Republic? A: Slovakia
Q: With which musical instrument is Pablo Casals associated? A: Cello
Q: Which artistic movement was led by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso? A: Cubism
Q: During which conflict was the battle of Creçy fought? A: Hundred Years War
Q: "Which metallic element, number 77 in the periodic table, takes its name from the Latin for ""rainbow""?" A: Iridium
Q: In Greek myth, who was the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, who killed his mother to avenge his father's death? A: Orestes
Q: What is the SI unit of electric current? A: Ampere
Q: In which English county is Beamish Museum? A: Durham
Q: How many triple word score squares are there on a traditional Scrabble board? A: 8
Q: Which British Prime Minister was the last to have been born in the nineteenth century? A: Harold Macmillan
Q: Who wrote the incidental music to Ibsen's Peer Gynt, first performed in 1876? A: Edvard Grieg
Q: Whose first solo UK number 1 single was I'm Still Waiting in August 1971? A: Diana Ross
Q: In which Paris square would you find an obelisk from the temple of Rameses II at Thebes? A: Place de la Concorde
Q: "Which metallic element, number 56 in the periodic table, takes its name from the Greek for ""heavy""?" A: Barium
Q: Which British city has cathedrals dedicated to St Philip and St Chad? A: Birmingham
Q: What is the SI unit of thermodynamic temperature? A: Kelvin
Q: In 2008, which famous actor wowed critics in Stratford with his Hamlet, but had to pull out of the London production? A: David Tennant
Q: Who was the Premier League's top goal scorer for three consecutive seasons between 1994 and 1997? A: Alan Shearer
Q: In Greek myth, who was the daughter of Oedipus and Jocasta who was entombed alive by her uncle for trying to bury her brother Polyneices after the civil war in Thebes? A: Antigone
Q: Who is the BBC's political editor? A: Nick Robinson
Q: What is the capital of the Canadian province of Manitoba? A: Winnipeg
Q: Who set Cardinal Newman's poem The Dream of Gerontius to music in his 1900 oratorio? A: Edward Elgar
Q: Who was the Premier League's top goal scorer for three consecutive seasons between 2004 and 2006? A: Thierry Henry
Q: Who captained the USA to victory in the Ryder Cup in 2008? A: Paul Azinger
Q: Which actress holds the record for the most Oscar nominations? A: Meryl Streep
Q: Who was on the English throne in 1600? A: Elizabeth I
Q: In which book do Mr Jones and The Battle of the Cowshed appear? A: Animal Farm
Q: Which play has tramps Estragon and Vladimir as the main characters? A: Waiting for Godot
Q: Which Shakespeare play features Rosencrantz and Guildenstern? A: Hamlet
Q: Who painted 'The Laughing Cavalier' in 1624? A: Frans Hals
Q: Who painted 'The Blue Boy' in 1770? A: Thomas Gainsborough
Q: Who shot Lee Harvey Oswald in November 1963? A: Jack Ruby
Q: Who did Sirhan Sirhan assassinate in 1968? A: Robert Kennedy
Q: In which US state is Buffalo? A: New York
Q: In which decade was Blackpool Tower completed? A: 1890s
Q: In which country is Aconcagua located? A: Argentina
Q: In which country is Cotopaxi located? A: Ecuador
Q: Who wrote 'The Trout Quintet' in 1819? A: (Franz) Schubert
Q: Who wrote the music for the 1957 musical 'West Side Story'? A: Leonard Bernstein
Q: La Giralda is the bell tower of which Spanish cathedral? A: Seville
Q: What is the name of the road/rail bridge opened in 2000 that links Copenhagen and Malmo? A: Oresund
Q: What creature gives birth to a hinny? A: A donkey
Q: To which saint is the Cathedral in Red Square dedicated? A: St Basil
Q: Which club won the UEFA Champions League Final the year before Liverpool's win in Istanbul in 2005? A: Porto
Q: Who commanded the French and Spanish fleet at the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805? A: (Pierre) Villeneuve
Q: Which river comprised the boundary between Hades and Earth in Greek mythology? A: Styx
Q: Who was the ferryman over the Styx? A: Charon
Q: Who wrote the operetta 'Orpheus in the Underworld'? A: Offenbach
Q: What popular name is given to the Infernal Galop from Act 2 of 'Orpheus in the Underworld'? A: The Can Can
Q: In which country is the Nobel Peace Prize awarded? A: Norway
Q: Who wrote the 1986 Booker Prize winning novel 'The Old Devils? A: Kingsley Amis
Q: Who wrote the 1981 Booker Prize winning novel `Midnights Children? A: Salman Rushdie
Q: Which female politician was assassinated in Pakistan in December 2007? A: Benazir Bhutto
Q: An isotope of which metal was used to poison the Russian Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006? A: Polonium
Q: After the Latin name for which modern European capital is the element Hafnium named? A: Copenhagen
Q: After the Latin name for which modern European capital is the element Lutetium named? A: Paris
Q: Who wrote the music for Rule Britannia? A: Thomas Arne
Q: Who was British Prime Minister when the Battle of Waterloo was fought? A: Lord Liverpool
Q: For which king was Handel's Water Music composed? A: George I
Q: In which Welsh town is the Royal Mint situated? A: Llantrisant
Q: "Which 1942 film features the line ""Play it Sam, play 'As time goes by'""?" A: Casablanca
Q: Who designed the Bridgewater Canal, opened in 1761? A: James Brindley
Q: Who designed the Menai Suspension Bridge, completed in 1826? A: Thomas Telford
Q: What is the main constituent of pewter? A: Tin
Q: Who was defeated at the Battle of Sedgemoor in 1685? A: Duke of Monmouth
Q: Which great battle between the Greeks and Persians took place in 490BC? A: Battle of Marathon
Q: In which port did The Herald of Free Enterprise capsize in 1987? A: Zeebrugge
Q: What was the name of the VLCC tanker that split in two off the coast of Brittany in 1978? A: Amoco Cadiz
Q: What nationality was the World War 2 military leader General Sikorski? A: Polish
Q: What nationality was Che Guevara? A: Argentine
Q: Who founded the Samaritans in 1953? A: Chad Varah
Q: In which county is Ascot? A: Berkshire
Q: What was the name of the 14 year old boy whom Winnie Mandela was cleared of killing? A: STOMPIE MOEKETSI
Q: Name the American TV detective played by Gene Barry who had a chauffeur-driven Rolls in a 1960s series? A: AMOS BURKE
Q: "In the comic-strip ""Batman and Robin"" what is the Boy Wonder's real name?" A: DICK GRAYSON
Q: Which ship, during the Falklands conflict was nicknamed 'The Great White Whale'? A: CANBERRA
Q: Which is the only disease that has been eradicated by man? A: SMALLPOX
Q: Shirley Temple Black became US Ambassador to which African Country in 1974? A: GHANA
Q: Give one of the forenames of 'Lenin'? A: VLADIMIR ILYICH
Q: In the film 'Jason and the Argonauts', who played the title role? A: TODD ARMSTRONG
Q: Which was the first novel written by Charles Dickens? A: THE PICKWICK PAPERS
Q: In which 1950s TV series was the leading character's name Peter Brady? A: THE INVISIBLE MAN
Q: What name is given to a mixture of coffee, steamed milk and powdered chocolate? A: CAPPUCCINO
Q: What kind of creature's largest species is called a 'Goliath'? A: FROG
Q: According to Roman mythology, who was the father of the God Jupiter? A: SATURN
Q: Which artist painted 'The Birth of Venus'? A: SANDRO BOTTICELLI
Q: According to Greek mythology, who gave birth to the winged horse 'Pegasus'? A: MEDUSA
Q: Who starred in, wrote the screenplay and directed the film 'The Railway Children'? A: LIONEL JEFFRIES
Q: In which town or city is Sha Tin airport? A: HONG KONG
Q: What kind of creature may be 'bottle-nosed'? A: DOLPHIN
Q: Which Roman orator was slain by Mark Anthony's soldiers in 43 B.C.? A: CICERO
Q: The actress Laila Ward, who played Dr Who's assistant, married which of the Doctors? A: TOM BAKER
Q: What is removed in an odontectomy? A: TOOTH
Q: To which animal does the adjective 'leporine' refer? A: THE HARE
Q: The world's largest diamond at 530 carats is 'The Star of Africa'. In which of the Crown Jewels can it be found? A: THE SCEPTRE
Q: The original Orient Express train ran from Paris to which city? A: ISTANBUL
Q: Who is the ex-actress wife of disgraced former war minister John Profumo? A: VALERIE HOBSON
Q: As what does the German word 'Donner' translate into English? A: THUNDER
Q: What is the name of the hormone which is said to give males their aggressiveness? A: TESTOSTERONE
Q: Who is the Greek equivalent to the Phoenician goddess Astarte, and the Babylonian goddess Ishtar? A: APHRODITE
Q: In which country was there a terrorist leader called George Grivas? A: CYPRUS
Q: Pedro Ximenes is a grape usually used in the production of which drink? A: SHERRY .
Q: In the grounds of which building is the cannon called 'Mons 'Meg'? A: EDINBURGH CASTLE
Q: Which folk song has the refrain 'Parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme'? A: SCARBOROUGH FAIR
Q: One end of the Pennine Way is 'The Nag's Head' in Edale, where is the other? A: KIRK YETHOLM
Q: The 2008 film The Curious Tale of Benjamin Button' was adapted from a short story by whom? A: F.SCOTT FITZGERALD
Q: Which sportsman married Elin Nordgren in 2004? A: TIGER WOODS
Q: The company Antofagasta is the world's largest producer of what? A: COPPER
Q: What was the last possession of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, lost to Islam in 1291? A: ACRE
Q: Xavier Rolet succeeded Clara Furse to a major job in which establishment during May 2009? A: LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE
Q: Which walking path runs for 42 miles from Osmotherley to Ravenscar? A: LYKE WAKE WALK
Q: In 1959, who led the 26th July revolutionary movement? A: FIDEL CASTRO
Q: In wine making, 'botrytis' is also known as what? A: NOBLE ROT
Q: Which sportsman did tennis,player Chris Evert marry in 2008? A: GREG NORMAN
Q: The Battle of Blenheim,1704, is described as the turning point in which war?' A: WAR of the SPANISH SUCCESSION
Q: In which Dickens novel would you find a lawyer named Jaggers? A: GREAT EXPECTATIONS
Q: For which film did Sean Penn win an Oscar in 2009? A: MILK
Q: What name is given to the largest side of a right-angled triangle? A: HYPOTENUSE
Q: Landmarks such as Angel's Landing, Three Patriarchs and The Great White Throne are to be found in which American National Park? ' A: ZION
Q: In the folk song 'All Around My Hat' what will the singer have arranged round the hat? A: The GREEN WILLOW
Q: Whose signature tune was 'One O'clock Jump'? A: COUNT BASIE
Q: In the play 'King Lear, what is the name of the youngest daughter of the king? A: CORDELIA
Q: Forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan appears in the novels of which crime-writer? A: KATHY REICHS
Q: Which city, whose name means 'Southern Capital', was the capital of China before Beijing became the capital in 1949? A: NANKING
Q: Give another name for halite, the mineral form of sodium chloride. A: ROCK SALT
Q: Fescue and Yorkshire fog are types of what? A: GRASSES
Q: In USA, what do they call the silencer of a car? A: MUFFLER
Q: 'Night of the Hunter'(1955),was the only film directed by which famous actor? A: CHARLES LAUGHTON
Q: Which group won the Mercury Prize in 2008 for their album 'The Seldom Seen Kid'? A: ELBOW
Q: Before Kabul, what was the capital city of Afghanistan? A: KANDAHAR
Q: Apart from being Groundhog Day in USA, what Christian festival is observed on.February 2nd? A: CANDLEMAS
Q: 'Barwick Green' is the signature tune for which radio programme? A: THE ARCHERS
Q: Who was the landlord of 'The Spyglass Inn' at the beginning of 'Treasure Island'? A: LONG JOHN SILVER
Q: Which film was the directorial debut of Clint Eastwood in 1971? A: PLAY MISTY FOR ME
Q: Who wrote the Manfred Man hit 'The Mighty Quinn'? A: BOB DYLAN
Q: The phenomenon known as Baily's Beads occurs during which event? A: SOLAR ECLIPSE
Q: Element 94, first synthesized in 1940, was given what name? A: PLUTONIUM
Q: Alecia Moore sings under what name? A: PINK
Q: Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley appears in novels by whom? A: ELIZABETH GEORGE
Q: What kind of creature is a 'sugar glider? A: POSSUM
Q: Who played Flash Gordon in the 1936 film of that title? A: Buster Crabbe
Q: What name is given to the military code of Japanese samurai? A: Bushido
Q: With which art form do you associate Ansel Adams and Robert Mapplethorpe? A: Photography
Q: From which wood are castanets traditionally made? A: Chestnut
Q: Who hid in the Boscobel Oak? A: Charles II
Q: From which Cole Porter musical do the songs Wunderbar and Too Darn Hot come? A: Kiss Me Kate
Q: In which 1974 blockbuster movie did O J Simpson play a security guard? A: The Towering Inferno
Q: Who helped Theseus escape from the Labyrinth? A: Ariadne
Q: The island of Rapa Nui is better known as what? A: Easter Island
Q: Who supposedly bought the Grail to Britain and founded Glastonbury Abbey? A: St Joseph of Arimathea
Q: Near which village in Lincolnshire is the Royal Air Force College? A: Cranwell
Q: What is the name of the spicy, curry-flavoured soup the name of which when translated from Tamil means 'pepper water'? A: Mulligatawny
Q: Which Cole Porter musical includes the songs True Love and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? A: High Society
Q: What is the collective noun for geese in flight? A: A skein
Q: In which piste sport did Mussolini, Oswald Mosley, Juan Peron and Himmler all participate -(not necessarily with each other!)? A: Fencing
Q: Where in the UK was the Mars Bar invented? A: Slough
Q: Who was Muffin the Mule's human sidekick on TV in the 1950s? A: Annette Mills
Q: In which TV establishment were Miss Gatsby and Miss 'Tibbs residents? A: Fawlty Towers
Q: What temperature is the same on both Celsius and Fahrenheit scales? A: -40°
Q: The Simon and Garfunkel song Mrs Robinson makes reference to which famous American sportsman? A: Joe Di Maggio
Q: From which Shakespeare play does the line 'Now is the winter of our discontent' come? A: Richard III
Q: In which Lincolnshire town did the BBC film Middlemarch in the early 1990s? A: Stamford
Q: What name is given to the Japanese art of paper-folding? A: Origami
Q: What was the name of the Cuban dictator overthrown by Fidel Castro? A: (Fulgencio) Batista
Q: Who played General George Custer in the film They Died with Their Boots On? A: Errol Flynn
Q: How many red balls are on the table at the start of a game of snooker? A: Fifteen
Q: Which office was Nicolas Breakspear the first Englishman to hold, in the twelfth century? A: Pope
Q: Which once-successful hosiery company was set up by Asil Nadir? A: Polly Peck
Q: Which part did Honor Blackman play in the film Goldfinger? A: Pussy Galore
Q: In which Irish park was Lord Cavendish assassinated in 1882? A: Phoenix
Q: On which scale is the intensity of an earthquake measured? A: Mercalli Scale
Q: St Peter Port is the capital of which island? A: Guernsey
Q: Which local group included a track called `99% Of Gargoyles Look Like Bob Todd' on their 1985 album 'Back in the DHSS'? A: Half Man Half Biscuit
Q: I am the egg man' is a line from which Beatles song? A: I am the Walrus
Q: What is the capital city of Azerbaijan? A: Baku
Q: At what battle was the Mexican general Santa Anna defeated by Sam Houston in 1836? A: San Jacinto
Q: In the human body what name is given collectively to the five long bones of the foot? A: Metatarsus
Q: Who painted the Rake's Progress series of paintings, in 1721/1723? A: William Hogarth
Q: What name is given to the arc of brilliant points seen round the moon after a total solar eclipse, named after an English astronomer? A: Bailey's Beads
Q: At what battle did Hannibal defeat the Romans in 216 BC? A: Cannae
Q: What nationality are the rock band The Cardigans? A: Swedish
Q: "Who painted ""A Bar at the Folies Bergeres"" in 1882?" A: Edouard Manet
Q: Who was the president of the USA at the time of the Wall Street Crash? A: Herbert Hoover
Q: Tommy Lee, who was formerly married to Pamela Anderson, was the drummer in which successful 1980s heavy metal band? A: Motley Crue
Q: In Roman mythology who was the god of gates, doors and entrances? A: Janu
Q: What was the last battle fought on English soil? A: Sedgemoor
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Madame Bovary""?" A: Gustave Flaubert
Q: Declan MacManus is the real name of which rock star? A: Elvis Costello
Q: In the Shakespeare play, who is Othello's trusted advisor, husband of Emilia? A: Iago
Q: What is the capital of Madagascar? A: Antananarivo
Q: Who invented the vacuum flask, in 1892? A: James Dewar
Q: What Spanish name is given to a spicy pork sausage seasoned with garlic? A: Chorizo
Q: With which planet do you associate Cassini's Division? A: Saturn
Q: What was the Beatles' first chart single success, released in October 1962? A: Love Me Do
Q: Which American actor starred in the film 'The Magnificent Seven' and on TV in 'The Man From Uncle'? A: Robert Vaughn
Q: Who was the first person to be officially called British Prime Minister, 5 days after he took office in 1905? A: Henry Campbell Bannerman
Q: Who provided the voice for the Genie of the Lamp in the 1992 Disney film 'Aladdin'? A: Robin Williams
Q: What type of military weapon was the MGR-1, known as Honest John? A: A (surface to surface) Missile
Q: What type of creature is a skink? A: A lizard
Q: Who was the Greek God of fire? A: Hephaestus
Q: What is the highest peak on Dartmoor? A: (High) Willhays
Q: What is the main ingredient of Laverbread? A: Seaweed
Q: What is the young of a pigeon called? A: Squab
Q: From which county does Troika pottery originate? A: Cornwall
Q: Who directed the 1954 film 'On the Waterfront'? A: Elia Kazan
Q: Who was the first presenter of 'Ready Steady Go', in August 1963? A: Keith Fordyce
Q: Who wrote the 1964 play 'Entertaining Mr Sloane'? A: Joe Orton
Q: Rafael Trujillo was dictator of which state for nearly 20 years? A: Dominican Republic
Q: Which cricket team play home matches at the Riverside Ground? A: Durham
Q: "Which other composer said of Wagner's music that it had ""lovely moments but awful quarters of an hour""?" A: Rossini
Q: What was the last Inspector Morse novel called? It was published in 1999. A: The Remorseful Day
Q: Which poet wrote The Wild Swans at Coole, in 1917? A: W B Yeats
Q: The Swaythling Cup is competed for in which sport? A: Table Tennis
Q: Of which country is Helen Clark Prime Minister? A: New Zealand
Q: Which singer married Bobby Brown in 1992? A: Whitney Houston
Q: Who in 1986 wrote the novel 'Wolves Eat Dogs'? A: Martin Cruz Smith
Q: What was the name of the squire in Treasure Island? A: Trelawney
Q: In which country is Cape Agulhas? A: South Africa
Q: In a suit of armour which part of the body was protected by the 'poleyn'? A: The Knee
Q: In terms of population, Cordoba is the second largest city of which country? A: Argentina
Q: Which UK pop group was formed in London in 1989 by the singer Damon Albarn? A: Blur
Q: Who directed the first two Batman films that starred Michael Keaton? A: Tim Burton
Q: What was Dylan Thomas's middle name? A: Marlais
Q: What is the capital of Burundi? A: Bujumbura
Q: Which group had a No. 1 hit in 2001 with their version of Billy Joel's' Uptown Girl'? A: Westlife
Q: For which film did Oliver Stone win his second Best Director Oscar in 1989? A: Born on the Fourth of July
Q: What is the northernmost point of mainland Australia? A: Cape York
Q: In which country is Cape Matapan? A: Greece
Q: In a suit of armour which part of the body was protected by the rerebrace? A: (The upper) Arm
Q: Natal is a city in which South American country? A: Brazil
Q: What is the name of the Welsh captain in Henry V? A: Fluellen
Q: Who directed the first Superman film in 1978 starring Christoper Reeve? A: Richard Donner
Q: Which UK pop group was formed in Sheffield in 1978 by singer Jarvis Cocker? A: Pulp
Q: In which British city would you find Barlinnie prison? A: Glasgow
Q: Which horse won the 2009 Cheltenham Gold Cup? A: Kauto Star
Q: What is the name of the holy book of the Sikh religion? A: Adi Granth
Q: The Galapagos Islands are a province of which South American country? A: Ecuador
Q: Which English king founded the Order of the Garter in 1348? A: Edward III
Q: Which ancient site was excavated by Sir Arthur Evans from 1900 to 1925? A: Knossos
Q: What is the capital of Gambia? A: Banjul
Q: Which gas is produced by the action of water on Calcium Carbide? A: Acetylene
Q: For which 2004 film did Clint Eastwood win his second Best Director Oscar? A: Million Dollar Baby
Q: What is the southernmost point of India? A: Cape Comorin
Q: Which British author wrote the novel 'The Antiquary' in 1816? A: Sir Walter Scott
Q: Who became the drummer of The Who after the death of Keith Moon in 1978? A: Kenny Jones
Q: What was the first novel in the Inspector Morse series of novels, published in 1975? A: Last Bus to Woodstock
Q: 'Life is like a box of chocolates' is a quote from which 1994 film? A: Forrest Gump
Q: Which famous playwright used the pseudonym 'Como di Bassetto' when he worked as a music critic? A: George Bernard Shaw
Q: The Orkney Islands are located in which Shipping Forecast Area? A: Fair Isle
Q: In the Simpsons cartoon series what is the first name of Principal Skinner'? A: Seymour
Q: Whose right to the English throne did Lady Jane Grey challenge in 1553? A: Mary I
Q: What word meaning doorway in Punjabi is the name of a Sikh place of worship? A: Gurdwara
Q: Easter Island (Rapa Nui) belongs to which country? A: Chile
Q: Macaroni, Chinstrap and Rockhopper are all species of which bird? A: Penguins
Q: Which Prime Minister was once the MP for Bootle from 1911 until 1918? A: Andrew Bonar Law
Q: Which English king founded Eton College in 1440? A: Henry VI
Q: Who replaced Brian Jones in the Rolling Stones in 1969? A: Mick Taylor
Q: 'I'll have what she's having' is a quote from which 1989 film? A: When Harry Met Sally
Q: What was the last novel in the Inspector Rebus series of novels, published in 2007? A: Exit Music
Q: The Farne Islands are located in which Shipping Forecast Area? A: Tyne
Q: Whose right to the English throne did the Duke of Monmouth challenge in 1685? A: James II
Q: In the Simpsons cartoon series what is the name of Police Chief Wiggum's son? A: Ralph
Q: Which team won the 2009 Superbowl? A: Pittsburgh Steelers
Q: Bute House is the official residence of which politician? A: First Minister of Scotland
Q: What did the Romans call the River Severn? A: Sabrina
Q: In which TV 'soap' did the character Charlene Mitchell appear? A: Neighbours
Q: What name is given to the Japanese dish in which fish or vegetables are deep fried in butter? A: Tempura
Q: In the book 'Tom Brown's Schooldays', what is the name of the bully? A: Flashman
Q: Which city has sports teams known as the 'Maple Leafs' and the 'Blue Jays'? A: Toronto
Q: In Greek mythology, what sort of creature was Polyphemus? A: Cyclops
Q: The fortified wine 'Marsala' is produced on which island? A: Sicily
Q: In mathematics, what is a quarter of a circle called? (an area bounded by two radii at right angles to each other) A: A Quadrant
Q: With more than 60,000 of them, which country is known as 'the Country of a Thousand Lakes'? A: Finland
Q: Which comedian starred in the 1961 film 'The Rebel'? A: Tony Hancock
Q: Which Russian composer was also a professor of chemistry? A: Borodin
Q: In which TV 'soap' did the character Benny Hawkins appear? A: Crossroads
Q: The trademark of which famous Austrian chocolate cake was registered by a Viennese hotel in the 1870's? A: Sachertorte
Q: Which European capital city has districts called Alfama and Baixa? A: Lisbon
Q: In a circle what name is given to a part of the circle bounded by a chord and an arc? A: Segment
Q: The name Malmsey is now used almost exclusively for a sweet variety of wine from the Malvasia grape produced on which island? A: Madeira
Q: The paradise `Shangri La' was created by James Hilton in which book? A: Lost Horizon
Q: Throughout his political career Enoch Powell held only one ministerial post, which was it? A: Minister of Health
Q: Which record producer of the early 1960s is the subject of the film 'Telstar'? A: Joe Meek
Q: Which city has sports teams known as the 'Starters; the 'Pirates' and the 'Penguins'? A: Pittsburgh
Q: Which European capital city has districts called Ottakring and Leopoldstadt? A: Vienna
Q: Which first- class county cricket club has its HQ at the Rose Bowl? A: Hampshire
Q: The Costa Smeralda is on the northeast coast of which island? A: Sardinia
Q: Which book by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle related the story of Professor Challenger's explorations? A: The Lost World
Q: Enoch Powell's political career ended in 1987 as a member of which party? A: Ulster Unionist
Q: Tamara Mellon co-founded which famous shoe company? A: Jimmy Choo
Q: John Aldridge was the first player to miss a penalty in an FA Cup final at Wembley, which Tottenham Hotspur player was the second? A: Gary Lineker
Q: Name the singer who, along with Vince Clarke, made up the pop group Erasure? A: Andy Bell
Q: Pristina is the capital of which European state? A: Kosovo
Q: What was the name of Gene Autry's famous horse? A: Champion
Q: In which town or city is the University of the West of England? A: Bristol
Q: Which first- class county cricket club has its HQ at the Riverside Ground? A: Durham
Q: I Who commanded the German fleet at the Battle of Jutland? A: (Admiral) Scheer
Q: Who was appointed Poet Laureate in 2009? A: Carol Ann Duffy
Q: Asmara is the capital of which African country? A: Eritrea
Q: In which town or city is the University of Central Lancashire? A: Preston
Q: Which philosopher wrote 'The Flies' and 'Being and Nothingness' in 1943? A: Jean-Paul Sartre
Q: Caroline Lucas is the leader of which political party in the UK? A: Green Party
Q: In which shipyard was Nelson's flagship, HMS Victory, built? A: Chatham
Q: Who was Home Secretary at the time of the Sidney Street Siege? A: Winston Churchill
Q: Who played the male lead in the film 'Breakfast at Tiffany's'? A: George Peppard
Q: From which English football club did Rupert Lowe resign when the club was placed into administration in 2009? A: SOUTHAMPTON
Q: Who assassinated Arch duke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo in 1914? A: GAVRILO PRINCIP
Q: Mary Lennox is the central character of which 1911 Frances Hodgson Burnett novel? A: THE SECRET GARDEN
Q: Who won the 1962 Nobel Prize for Medicine for their discovery of the structure of DNA along with James Watson and Maurice Wilkins? A: FRANCIS CRICK
Q: Chablis is the northernmost district of which French wine growing region? A: BURGUNDY
Q: On which novel was the 1995 Clueless loosely based? A: EMMA
Q: What is the capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu? A: CHENNAI
Q: Who is credited with inventing the World Wide Web? A: TIM BERNERS-LEE
Q: "What was the forename of F Scott Fitzgerald's ""Great Gatsby""?" A: JAY
Q: "The India Pale Ale ""Old Empire"" is brewed by which company?" A: MARSTONS
Q: In which city is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development located? A: LONDON
Q: In Greek Mythology who was the messenger of the gods? A: HERMES
Q: In the Old Testament which son of Isaac is also known as Israel? A: JACOB
Q: What is the first name of Andrew Murray's tennis playing brother? A: JAMIE
Q: What was the nickname of Queen Joan the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain? A: MAD
Q: Who was the first UK winner of the Eurovision Song Contest? A: SANDIE SHAW
Q: "The painting ""the Girl with the Pearl Earring"" is by which artist?" A: VERMEER
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""The Wide Sargasso Sea"" inspired by the novel Jane Eyre?" A: JEAN RHYS
Q: Who was Prime Minister of South Africa from 1958 to 1966? A: HENDRIK VERWOERD
Q: """Love Changes Everything"" is the best known song from which Andrew Lloyd Webber musical?" A: ASPECTS OF LOVE
Q: Alfred Sisley was an exponent of which school of painting? A: IMPRESSIONISM
Q: "Who wrote the political treatise called ""The Prince"" in 1513?" A: NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI
Q: Which British newspaper was mainly responsible for exposing the MP's expenses scandal in 2009? A: THE DAILY TELEGRAPH
Q: "The ""Generalife"" is a villa with gardens in the grounds of which famous tourist attraction in Spain?" A: THE ALHAMBRA
Q: What is the nationality of golfer Vijay Singh? A: FIJIAN
Q: "What is the name of the ""Plum Pudding"" shaped island in the outer Firth of Clyde where granite is quarried to make curling stones?" A: AILSA CRAIG
Q: "In which country did the dance ""The Czardas"" originate?" A: HUNGARY
Q: During the 2008 Proms series of concerts one was based upon the music written by composer Murray Gold for which TV series? A: DR WHO
Q: The first Olympic Games in three decades without a boycott of some sort was held in 1992 in which city? A: BARCELONA
Q: "Who as at March 2009 chairs the Radio 4 programme ""The News Quiz""?" A: SANDI TOKSVIG
Q: "Who composed ""The Karelia Suite""?" A: SIBELIUS
Q: "Who had a number 1 hit in 1972 with ""Mouldy Old Dough""?" A: LIEUTENANT PIGEON
Q: "Who wrote the novella ""Breakfast at Tiffany's""?" A: TRUMAN CAPOTE
Q: As at March 2009 who is Prime Minister of Australia? A: KEVIN RUDD
Q: To which religious group did the victims of the St Bartholomew's Day Massacre belong? A: HUGUENOTS
Q: Of which African mountain range is Jbel Toubkal the highest peak? A: THE ATLAS MOUNTAINS
Q: "Which war poet wrote ""Dulce Et Decorum Est""?" A: WILFRED OWEN
Q: With which musical instrument is Theolonius Monk best associated? A: PIANO
Q: Which English king was married to Charlotte of Mecklenberg? A: GEORGE III
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""The Other Boleyn Girl""?" A: PHILIPPA GREGORY
Q: "Which country refused to take part in the 1982 Eurovision Song Contest on the grounds that ""It was a monument to drivel"" - sore losers?" A: FRANCE
Q: In which group of islands are Stronsay, Hoy and South Ronaldsay? A: Orkneys
Q: In which English town or city is the Special Air Service (SAS) based? A: Hereford
Q: What is the first line of the poem 'Home thoughts from Abroad' by Robert Browning? A: Oh, to be in England
Q: What name is given to two vowel-sounds pronounced as one syllable? A: Diphthong
Q: Divine Comedy performed the title song to which very popular TV comedy series? A: Father Ted
Q: Which European country's flag is the oldest in the world? A: Denmark
Q: Which ancient trackway runs from St Albans to Canterbury? A: Watling Street
Q: Which cologne, created in 1792, was named after the street number of the building in Glockengasse, Cologne where it was created? A: 4711
Q: The Brooklyn Bridge crosses which river? A: The East River
Q: Carrots are rich in which vitamin? A: A
Q: In which group of islands are St Mary's, St Agnes and Bryher? A: Scillies
Q: What name is given to a number sequence in which each term is the sum of the two preceding terms? A: Fibonacci
Q: In `Winnie the Pooh', who lived in the 'House at Pooh Corner'? A: Eeyore
Q: In which English port is the Special Boat Service (SBS) based? A: Poole
Q: The Alabama Three performed 'Woke Up This Morning', the title song to which very popular crime series? A: The Sopranos
Q: In which Ealing film comedy did Dennis Price kill off various members of the D'Ascoyne family? A: Kind Hearts and Coronets
Q: Name either of the other two goddesses who were beaten by Aphrodite in the 'Judgement of Paris'? A: Hera, Athena
Q: Which 20th century British Prime Minister was born in Broadstairs, Kent? A: Edward Heath
Q: Who was Les Dennis's partner on 'The Laughter Show' before his early death in 1986? A: Dustin Gee
Q: In which year was the 20p coin introduced and the word 'new' dropped from all newly minted coins in Britain? A: 1982
Q: Which Swedish tennis player won the men's singles title at Wimbledon from 1988 to 1990? A: Stefan Edberg
Q: In meteorology what name is given to the technique of using substances such as silver iodide to increase precipitation? A: Cloud Seeding
Q: What name is given to the Sunday at the start of Holy Week? A: Palm Sunday
Q: Rubies and sapphires are varieties of which mineral? A: Corundum
Q: Milk and sunlight are good sources of which vitamin? A: D
Q: Hans Wilhelm Langsdorf was captain of which German Battleship in World War 2? A: Graf Spee
Q: In which daily newspaper does the political cartoon 'Nature Notes' appear? A: Times
Q: In the Bible, who was the third son of Noah along with Ham and Shem? A: Japheth
Q: Which Blue Peter presenter was a Chief Scout? A: Peter Duncan
Q: The Battle of Blenheim (1704) took place in which war? A: Spanish Succession
Q: Which group has reformed after 25 years but without founder member, songwriter and keyboard player Jerry Dammers? A: The Specials
Q: When Gracie Fields sang the words: `...you're more than the whole world to me', to whom was she referring? A: Sally
Q: In which city is the HQ of Volkswagen cars? A: Wolfsburg
Q: Les Dennis's first TV appearances were as a stooge on which comedian's regular show? A: Russ Abbot
Q: Which popular chocolates are named after a play by JM Barrie? A: Quality Street
Q: Emerald and aquamarine are varieties of which mineral? A: Beryl
Q: Which Swedish tennis player never won the men's singles title at Wimbledon, but during the 1980s won the US Open once, the French Open twice and the Australian Open three times? A: Mats Wilander
Q: Graham McPherson was lead singer of a famous 1980s pop group, by what name is he usually known? A: Suggs
Q: Which Ealing comedy featured Alec Guinness, Alfie Bass, Sid James and Stanley Holloway as a gang of crooks? A: The Lavender Hill Mob
Q: What name is given to the day 40 days after Easter? A: Ascension Day
Q: Who wrote the Billy Bunter books? A: Frank Richards
Q: "Which 19th century English poet wrote ""Home Thoughts from Abroad""?" A: Robert Browning
Q: "In Greek mythology, which character carried a rod called ""a caduceus""? (kad-oo-see-us)" A: Hermes
Q: "Which British actress (and DBE) wrote an autobiography, entitled ""No Turn Unstoned""?" A: Diana Rigg
Q: "Which metal is mainly derived from the ore ""haematite""?" A: Iron
Q: "In which US state did ""The Battle of the Little Big Horn"" take place?" A: Montana
Q: "Which car manufacturer makes a model called the ""Tiguan""?" A: Volkswagen
Q: Who is the present Master of the Queen's Music? A: Sir Peter Maxwell Davies
Q: Who is the present Poet Laureate? A: Carol Ann Duffy
Q: Which metal is mainly obtained from the ore cassiterite? A: Tin
Q: "From which English writer did Ernest Hemingway get the title for his book ""For Whom the Bell Tolls""?" A: John Donne
Q: Which car manufacturer makes a model called the Sportage? A: Kia
Q: In Greek mythology which king was the father of Ariadne? A: Minos
Q: The Man that Got Away A: A Star is Born
Q: There's No Business like Show Business A: Annie Get Your Gun
Q: Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend A: Gentlemen Prefer
Q: Who was the first female presenter of BBCTV's Grandstand sports programme? A: Helen Rollason
Q: Rosa Parkes' refusal to give up her bus seat to a white passenger caused a riot in which US city in 1955? A: Montgomery
Q: The Thar Desert is MAINLY in which country? A: India
Q: To within a year, when were proceedings of the House of Commons first regularly broadcast on TV? A: 1989
Q: "Who was responsible for the creation of the decoration the ""Legion D'Honneur""?" A: Napoleon
Q: On which London thoroughfare would you find the Savoy Hotel, Charing Cross Station and the Adelphi Theatre? A: The Strand
Q: """The only true wisdom is knowing you know nothing"" is a quote by which famous Greek philosopher?" A: Socrates
Q: On which London thoroughfare would you find the Royal Academy, Apsley House and Fortnum and Masons? A: Piccadilly
Q: "Who was responsible for the creation of the decoration the ""Purple Heart""?" A: George Washington
Q: Federico Fellini Airport serves which Italian holiday resort? A: Rimini
Q: "In 1902 which British car manufacturer invented ""disc brakes""?" A: Lanchester
Q: Which specific instrument did US jazz musician Bix Beiderbecke play? A: Cornet
Q: The Kalahari Desert lies mainly in which country? A: Botswana
Q: Lancelot Gobbo is a servant of which major Shakespearean character? A: Shylock
Q: For which specific type of painting was Nicholas Hilliard famous? A: Miniatures
Q: "Who succeeded the late David Vine as presenter of BBC's Ski Sunday""?" A: Hazel Irvine
Q: Which US president is currently featured on the $5 bill? A: Abraham Lincoln
Q: Dayron Robles of Cuba broke which athletic world record in 2008? A: 110m Hurdles
Q: What decimal number is represented by the binary 101 (read as one zero one)? A: Five
Q: "In the TV comedy ""Dad's Army"", what was the name of Captain Mainwaring's wife?" A: Elizabeth
Q: Which London station was designed by Brunel and completed in 1854? A: Paddington
Q: Which Roman road ran from London to York via Lincoln? A: Ermine Street
Q: Where is the largest Gothic cathedral in England? A: York
Q: Which American terrorist group of the early 1970s took its name from a line in a bob Dylan song? A: The Weathermen
Q: "Who wrote ""Little Lord Fauntleroy"" in 1885?" A: Francis Hodgson Burnett
Q: In a film of the 1950s, what was the name of the car in which Kenneth Moore and Dinah Sheridan travelled from London to Brighton? A: Genevieve
Q: "Who wrote the novel ""Tess of the D'Urbervilles"" in 1891?" A: Thomas Hardy
Q: According to the nursery rhyme, when did the Queen of Hearts make some tarts? A: (All on a) summer's day
Q: Who is the current holder (May 2009) of the Olympic and World record for the 100 metres at 9.69 seconds? A: Usain Bolt
Q: "Whose words are used in the 1916 hymn ""Jerusalem"" composed by Hubert Parry?" A: William Blake
Q: In London, HMS Belfast is moored between Tower Bridge and which other bridge? A: London Bridge
Q: In which of Grimm's fairy tales does the wicked witch end up in the oven? A: Hansel and Gretel
Q: The city of Cleveland in the USA stands on which of the Great Lakes? A: Lake Erie
Q: Which common fish belongs to the family gadidae? A: Cod
Q: Which orchestral instrument is the smallest member of the flute family? A: Piccolo
Q: "In which card game can one score ""one for his knob""?" A: Cribbage
Q: Which French World War I general later headed the pro-German Vichy Government in World War II from 1940-1944? A: Henri Petain
Q: What is the name of the new British steam locomotive No. 60163 built in Darlington and the first mainline locomotive built in the UK since 'Evening Star'? A: Tornado
Q: Which Roman road connected Lincoln and Exeter? A: Fosse Way
Q: In which cathedral is King John buried? A: Worcester
Q: Which rock group was founded by Lou Reed and John Cale? A: Velvet Underground
Q: Who was the Greek goddess of Peace? A: Irene
Q: In which book of 1920 did Hercule Poirot make his first appearance? A: The Mysterious Affair at Styles
Q: "Which English king was known as ""Longshanks"" or ""The Hammer of the Scots""?" A: Edward I
Q: What is the small independent state in the High Pyrenees, between Spain and France? A: Andorra
Q: "Whose first symphony of 1917 is known as ""The Classical Symphony""?" A: Sergei Prokofiev
Q: "a Which 1750 poem begins ""The curfew tolls the knell of parting day""?" A: Gray's Elegy
Q: "What kind of gemstone is the ""Star of India""?" A: (Blue Star) Sapphire
Q: Which pedestrian bridge in London connects the Tate Modern Art Gallery and St Paul's Cathedral? A: Millennium Bridge
Q: From which opera by Mascagni does the famous Easter Hymn come? A: Cavalleria Rusticana
Q: The Hoover Dam stands on which river? A: Colorado
Q: In the soap opera, The Colbys, which Hollywood legend played Jason Colby? A: Charlton Heston
Q: Which fish belong to the family anguillidae? A: Eels
Q: Which orchestral musical instrument had 46 or 47 strings? A: Concert harp
Q: Which Israeli seaport lies below Mount Carmel? A: Haifa
Q: "What is the ""Via Lactea"" of the night sky?" A: Milky Way
Q: What is the capital of the Italian region of Liguria? A: GENOA
Q: Naples is the capital of which Italian region? A: CAMPANIA
Q: Sandringham House, the private residence of the monarch, is in which English county? A: NORFOLK
Q: Which Greek mathematician claimed that the earth was a sphere, revolving on its own axis? A: PYTHAGORAS
Q: Which Roman poet is most renowned for his poetry about love, seduction and adultery? A: OVID
Q: "What is the name of the butler in ""Upstairs Downstairs""?" A: MR HUDSON
Q: On which Scottish island is the town of Stornoway? A: LEWIS
Q: "Who wrote the operas 'The Queen of Sheba"" and ""Romeo and Juliet""?" A: CHARLES GOUNOD
Q: Into which body of water does the River Ganges flow? A: THE BAY OF BENGAL
Q: What was the name of the sea nymph who imprisoned Odysseus on her island for 7 years? A: CALYPSO
Q: In Norse mythology what name is given to the rainbow bridge that leads from the mortal realm to Asgard? A: BIFROST
Q: What is the name of the skin test used to determine susceptibility to diphtheria? A: THE SCHICK TEST
Q: In the drug type known as NSAID for what does the S stand? A: STEROIDAL
Q: Who was the first of the Lancastrian Kings? A: HENRY IV
Q: Which English King was born at Caenarvon Castle in 1284? A: EDWARD II
Q: The Habanero is a variety of which vegetable? A: CHILLI PEPPER
Q: In boxing what weight comes above Light Heavyweight? A: CRUISERWEIGHT
Q: In which year of the 1960s did Sandie Shaw have a number one hit with 'Puppet on a String' and Procol Harum with 'Whiter Shade of Pale'? A: 1967
Q: Who had a hit in 1961 with Poetry in Motion? A: JOHNNY TILLOTSON
Q: Which Roman emperor is known by a name which translates as 'Little Boots'? A: CALIGULA
Q: Who in 1938 invented the game of Scrabble (although he called it Criss-Crosswords)? A: ALFRED BUTTS
Q: "Who painted the ""Adoration of the Magi"" now in the Uffizi Gallery?" A: SANDRO BOTTICELLI
Q: Who was the last Englishman before Lewis Hamilton to win the Formula One World Championship? A: DAMON HILL
Q: In the 2004 film of the same name who played the part of 'Vera Drake'? A: IMELDA STAUNTON
Q: Children's author Mrs Darrell Waters was better known under which name? A: ENID BLYTON
Q: Matter is thought to contain two classes of particles, Hadrons and which other? A: LEPTONS
Q: What physical fact was proven by Foucault's pendulum? A: THAT THE EARTH ROTATES
Q: Which war was ended by the Treaty of Westphalia? A: THE THIRTY YEAR WAR
Q: On which pipe of a set of bagpipes is the tune fingered? A: THE CHANTER
Q: The style of singing known as Fado comes from which European country? A: PORTUGAL
Q: In Greek mythology who was the Muse of Tragedy? A: MELPOMENE
Q: Who, in legend, commanded the Greeks during the Trojan War? A: AGAMEMNON
Q: "Who wrote ""Mr Midshipman Easy""?" A: FREDERICK MARRYAT
Q: In which Canadian province is the nation's capital Ottawa? A: Ontario
Q: Which tree has the Latin name Salix? A: Willow
Q: 'Kim', the 1901 novel by Rudyard Kipling, is about an Irish orphan named Kim O'Hara. Kim is short for which name? A: Kimball
Q: Britannia Metal is composed mainly (93%) of which element? A: Tin
Q: On which river is the Kariba Dam? A: Zambezi
Q: Which state surrounds the Australian Capital territory including the capital Canberra? A: New South Wales
Q: Name the writer known as 'Denmark's most famous son', his birthplace in Odense is now a museum? A: Hans Christian Anderson
Q: Who played the part of Michael Douglas's wife in the film 'Fatal Attraction'? A: Anne Archer
Q: How many chains are there in one mile? A: 80
Q: What is the name of the traditional Scottish pudding, often eaten at Hogmanay, made with suet, currants and, sultanas and named from the cloth in which it is wrapped for cooking? A: Clootie Dumpling
Q: What was the surname of the Danish father and son who both won Nobel Prizes for Physics, in 1922 and 1975? A: Bohr
Q: On which river is the Grand Coulee Dam? A: Columbia
Q: From which wine making region does Chablis come? A: Burgundy
Q: In which Beatles song does 'the barber shave another customer'? A: Penny Lane
Q: In Greek mythology, Thanatos represented Death who was his twin brother who represented Sleep? A: Hypnos
Q: Discovered in 1824, which chemical element, Atomic Number 14, has a name derived from the Latin for 'flint'? A: Silicon
Q: The name of which classic film (starring Audrey Hepburn) was also the title of a 1996 hit record for the group 'Deep Blue Something'? A: Breakfast at Tiffany's
Q: 'Take My Breath Away' was the theme to which film? A: Top Gun
Q: What was the family name of Lord and Lady Marchmain in 'Brideshead Revisited'? A: Flyte
Q: Which well known liqueur, usually served in a distinctive manner, is flavoured with elderberry and liquorice? A: Sambuca
Q: In which town is St Magnus' Cathedral, the most northerly in Britain? A: Kirkwall
Q: Red Stripe lager was originally brewed in which country? A: Jamaica
Q: Which popular Scottish dessert is made with oats, cream, berries and whisky and often eaten at a Burns Supper? A: Cranachan
Q: Which Asian country's flag consists of three vertical stripes of black, red and green with a picture of a mosque in the centre? A: Afghanistan
Q: The Everett Factory in Washington state, USA is the world's largest building, which company own it? A: Boeing
Q: The William Burrell Collection is in which British town or city? A: Glasgow
Q: How many cables make up a nautical mile? A: Ten
Q: Who wrote the major choral work 'All Night Vigil', better known as the 'Vespers' which was sung at his funeral in 1943? A: Rachmaninov
Q: On which Aegean island is the lively resort of Faliraki? A: Rhodes
Q: Which metal is produced by the Mond Process? A: Nickel
Q: Who was the heroine of Jane Austen's novel Northanger Abbey? A: Catherine Morland
Q: Which is the second largest lake in the Lake District? A: Ullswater
Q: The summer Olympic Games of 1912 were held in which city? A: Stockholm
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Mercutio appear? A: Romeo and Juliet
Q: In which Shakespeare play does the character Goneril appear? A: King Lear
Q: The summer Olympic Games of 1988 were held in which city? A: Seoul
Q: How many hours did Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin spend walking on the moon in 1969? A: Two hours
Q: How many years does it take for Halley's Comet to reappear? A: Every 76 years
Q: At the Restoration in 1660, whom did Charles II appoint as Governor of Windsor Castle? A: Prince Rupert
Q: In which year did the Berlin Wall come down? A: 1989
Q: Who directed the film Ryan's Daughter (1970)? A: David Lean
Q: In 1707 a fleet of Navy ships was wrecked off the Scilly Islands. Who was the commander who lost his life in the disaster? A: Sir Cloudesley Shovel
Q: "In 1939 Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, was called ""the most dangerous woman in Europe"". By whom?" A: Adolf Hitler
Q: Which present-day US state was known officially in the 19th century as Indian territory? A: Oklahoma
Q: Who wrote the opera Peter Grimes? A: Benjamin Britten
Q: Who wrote the opera The Queen of Spades? A: Tchaikovsky
Q: In which US state was native American chief Sitting Bull killed? A: South Dakota
Q: Which flightless bird was found in Britain until nearly 200 years ago? A: (Great) Auk
Q: Who directed the film Citizen Kane (1941)? A: Orson Welles
Q: According to the Old Testament of the Bible, who consulted the witch of Endor? A: Saul
Q: In which British county are the rivers Taw, Torridge and Teign? A: Devon
Q: The village of Borstal that gave its name to institutions for juvenile criminals is in which British county? A: Kent
Q: According to the book of Revelations in the New Testament of the Bible, where were the kings of the earth gathered for battle? A: Armageddon
Q: On which river is St Petersburg situated? A: Neva
Q: According to the New Testament of the Bible, where is referred to as the town of David? A: Bethlehem
Q: Who wrote the General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money in 1936? A: John Maynard Keynes
Q: Which sea lies between Australia and New Zealand? A: Tasman
Q: Gala, Jonagold and Pink Lady are all varieties of which fruit? A: Apple
Q: The Hall of Arts and Sciences that was opened in 1871 is better known now as what? A: The Royal Albert Hall
Q: St Enoch's station is/was in which British city? A: Glasgow
Q: In a symphony orchestra, which is the smallest woodwind instrument? A: Piccolo
Q: In 1927 the capital of Australia was established in Canberra. Where had it the previous capital been? A: Melbourne
Q: What nationality is the model Gisele Bundchen? A: Brazilian
Q: Which former African leader once declared himself 'The Last King of Scotland'? A: Idi Amin
Q: Which of the four teenage mutant Ninja turtles would come first alphabetically? A: Donatello
Q: What is the nickname of the local mafia boss voiced by Joe Mantegna in 'The Simpsons'? A: Fat Tony
Q: Gisbome, Hawkes Bay and Marlborough are wine producing districts in which country? A: New Zealand
Q: Robertson, Constantia and Pearl are wine producing districts in which country? A: South Africa
Q: Which 1980 cult film, directed by John Landis, starred John Belushi and Dan Ackroyd? A: Blues Brothers
Q: John Landis directed a famous video for which of Michael Jackson's hits? A: Thriller
Q: Io, Callisto and Europa are moons of which planet? A: Jupiter
Q: In which city were almost all French kings crowned? A: Rheims
Q: Which monarch said Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest'? A: Henry II
Q: In the Harry Potter books, which house at Hogwarts has a serpent as its emblem? A: Slytherin
Q: In the children's books by Francesca Simon, 'Perfect Peter' is the younger brother of which character? A: Horrid Henry
Q: Who collaborated with Karl Marx to produce 'The Communist Manifesto' in 1848? A: Frederick Engels
Q: In 1706, the Duke of Marlborough won the Battle of Ramillies. In which modem country is it? A: Belgium
Q: Which entertainer had a statue erected in his memory in his home town of Caerphilly in 2008? A: Tommy Cooper
Q: What are the tiny blood vessels called which connect the smallest arteries and veins in the body? A: Capillaries
Q: The aurochs is a wild ancestor of which domesticated animal? A: Cattle
Q: The tarpan is a wild ancestor of which domesticated animal? A: Horse
Q: Which part of the body is affected by stomatitis? A: Mouth
Q: What type of food is eaten by animals with carnassial teeth? A: Meat
Q: Protons and neutrons are made up of what smaller objects? A: Quarks
Q: How many quarks make a proton? A: 3
Q: Mauna Loa is a volcano in which US state? A: Hawaii
Q: Mount St Helens is a volcano in which US state? A: Washington
Q: Which is the most northerly racecourse in Great Britain? A: Perth
Q: Which Nottinghamshire fast bowler who died in 1995 was best known for implementing the 'Fast Leg Theory' in the Bodyline Ashes Test series in 1932/33? A: Harold Larwood
Q: How many legs has a flea? A: 6
Q: What is the minimum age of the President of the USA? A: 35
Q: "To what was John Keats referring in his line ""Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness""?" A: A Grecian Urn
Q: How many legs has a lobster? A: 10
Q: What is the name of the colourless plum brandy which is made in several Balkan and Eastern European countries? A: Slivovitz
Q: Which dramatist wrote 'The Alchemist in 1610? A: Ben Jonson
Q: Which law, originating during the reign of Clovis, prevents a woman from succeeding to a throne? A: Salic Law
Q: What are classified using the Hubble Sequence? A: Galaxies
Q: Where was the first fossil 'Homo Erectus' found? A: Indonesia
Q: Which geological period is popularly named the 'Coal Age'? A: Carboniferous
Q: Which geological period is named after the chalk laid down? A: Cretaceous
Q: The endangered kakapo of New Zealand is the world's largest member of which bird family? A: Parrot
Q: Who was the East German leader ousted in 1989? A: Erich Honecker
Q: Which Slovak was elected Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia in January 1968? A: Alexander Dubcek
Q: Which film won Oscars for Best Picture, Best Director Robert Zemeckis and Best Actor Tom Hanks? A: Forrest Gump
Q: Which film won Oscars for Best picture, Best Director Barry Levinson and Best Actor Dustin Hoffman? A: Rain Man
Q: Daniel Arap Moi was President of which country? A: Kenya
Q: The Pula is the monetary unit of which African country? A: Botswana
Q: In what did the Owl and the Pussycat keep their money and honey? A: A five pound note
Q: In which county is Alton Towers? A: Staffordshire
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard which is the only vowel not on the top line? A: A
Q: "About which bird did Wordsworth write ""Is it a bird, or but a wandering voice?" A: CUCKOO
Q: What is the name of the tar-like substance produced from petroleum? A: BITUMEN
Q: Complete the title of this 1960's Group - 'Bachman Turner ....' A: OVERDRIVE
Q: Who played the part of Mildred Roper on television? A: YOOTHA JOYCE
Q: Who painted 'The Persistence of Memory'? A: SALVADOR DALI
Q: What part was played by Patrick Newell in 'The Avengers' TV series? A: MOTHER
Q: Which bone in the human body is at the front but sounds like its at the back? A: STERNUM
Q: Who was the Prime Minister of WW2 Japan? A: TOJO
Q: What is the national sport of Cuba? A: BASEBALL
Q: What nationality is the keyboard player Vangelis? A: GREEK
Q: When 'Titanic' left Southampton in April 1912, where was her first port of call? A: CHERBOURG
Q: Who plays 'Auntie Wainwright' in Last of the Summer Wine? A: JEAN ALEXANDER
Q: Whish gas forms bubbles in the bloodstream when someone gets the bends? A: NITROGEN
Q: Who was the founder and conductor of the 'Black and White Minstrels? A: GEORGE MITCHELL
Q: In which year did the 'Jet Age' become the 'Space Age'? A: 1957
Q: Which part of the human eye may be removed and kept in an eye bank? A: THE CORNEA
Q: Who or what is the subject of an iconic 1960 photograph by Alberto Korda? A: CHE GUEVARA
Q: In Greek Mythology, Pasiphae gave birth to which creature? A: THE MINOTAUR
Q: What name is given to the study of living things in their environment? A: ECOLOGY
Q: Which part of the human eye controls the size of the pupils? A: THE IRIS
Q: Which English King's coronation was postponed because he was suffering from appendicitis? A: EDWARD VII
Q: Who, in Greek myth, after being slain gave birth to the winged horse 'Pegasus'? A: MEDUSA
Q: Which invention brought to an end the 'Prehistoric Era'? A: WRITING
Q: Which chemical element emits a greenish glow in the air, and unless kept in water, burns of its own accord? A: PHOSPHORUS
Q: Which single word connects Beethoven, 'Terry's of York and Glenn Miller? A: MOONLIGHT
Q: Where was the venue for the hare-coursing 'Waterloo Cup'? A: ALTCAR
Q: What is the name of the Buckinghamshire Estate where the German 'Enigma' codes were cracked during WW2? A: BLETCHLEY PARK
Q: In which city was the first of the 'Rocky' films shot? A: PHILADELPHIA
Q: Which city is the closest Meriden which claims to be the geographical centre of England? A: COVENTRY
Q: What would be stored in a 'humidor'? A: CIGARS
Q: What was the name of the slumbering princess in the tale of 'Sleeping Beauty'? A: AURORA
Q: Which eagle is the largest bird of prey native to England? A: THE WHITE-TAILED
Q: Whose hit 'We Are Family' because an anthem for Gay Rights? A: SISTER SLEDGE
Q: In which Welsh Town is the Royal Mint? A: LLANTRISANT
Q: An Astronomical Unit is a standard measurement taken from the earth to where? A: THE SUN
Q: Which King had Daniel thrown into the lions' den? A: DARIUS
Q: After Malta itself and Gozo, what is the third largest island in the country of Malta? A: COMINO
Q: In July 1963, Gerald Durrell set up a Wildlife Conservationist trust on which island? A: JERSEY
Q: "Which English composer gave the Italian title ""Sinfonia Antartica"" to his seventh symphony?" A: RALPH VAUGHAN WILLIAMS
Q: Who, with 18 dismissals, was England's leading wicket taker in the 2009 Ashes series versus Australia? A: STUART BROAD
Q: Stomatitis is an inflammation of which part of the human body? A: THE MOUTH
Q: "In which European city is Shakespeare's play, ""Measure for Measure"" set?" A: VIENNA
Q: In August 2009, British athlete, Philip Idowu, won the World Title in Berlin in which event? A: TRIPLE JUMP
Q: "In Welsh place names, what does the word, ""Ynys"" signify?" A: ISLAND
Q: Which museum stands on the site of the Royal Bethlehem, (or Bedlam), hospital in London? A: IMPERIAL WAR MUSEUM
Q: As a teenager, Manchester United footballer, Ryan Giggs adopted his mother's maiden surname as his own. What had been his birth surname? A: WILSON
Q: What is the surname of the rap artist who goes by the pseudonym Eminem? A: MATHERS
Q: "Who had a No 1 single, ""Fight For This Love"", and a No.1 album, in the UK charts in the same week, in November 2009?" A: CHERYL COLE
Q: Ryan Giggs father, Danny Wilson, left Rugby Union in Wales, and signed professional forms for which Rugby League club? A: SWINTON
Q: In September 1950,where, in Korea, did UN troops land, prior to the recapture of Seoul? A: INCHON
Q: British athlete, Jessica Ennis, is currently World Champion in which women's event? A: HEPTATHLON
Q: "What is the geographical setting for Shakespeare's play, ""As You Like It""?" A: THE FOREST OF ARDEN
Q: Which European country contains six of the world's deepest caves? A: FRANCE
Q: "Which actor played the part of the vicar, the Reverend Timothy Farthing in the TV comedy series ""Dad's Army""? He later was ""promoted"" to play Bishop Charles in ""You Rang M'Lord"" in the 1990's" A: FRANK WILLIAMS
Q: Who, with 448 runs, was Australia's leading run scorer in the 2009 Ashes series? A: MICHAEL CLARKE
Q: After Majorca, Menorca and Ibiza, what is the fourth largest of the Balearic Islands? A: FORMENTERA
Q: Who was the first wife of the Lawn Tennis player, John McEnroe? A: TATUM O'NEAL
Q: """The Mona Lisa of the North"" or ""The Dutch Mona Lisa"" are two soubriquets for which painting by Dutch master, Jan Vermeer?" A: GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING
Q: The playwright, Harold Pinter was married to which authoress from 1980, until his death in 2008? A: LADY ANTONIA FRASER
Q: During the reign of which British King did Columbus discover the New World? A: HENRY VII
Q: "Which 1992 film featured Whitney Houston's version of the Dolly Parton song, ""I Will Always Love You""?" A: THE BODYGUARD
Q: "Which Shakespeare play opens with the line, ""If music be the food of love, play on""?" A: TWELFTH NIGHT
Q: "In the radio series, ""Hancock's Half Hour"", in which street did Hancock live?" A: RAILWAY CUTTINGS
Q: Before becoming President, of which US state was Barack Obama a senator? A: ILLINOIS
Q: "In the TV series, ""Steptoe and Son"", in which street did the Steptoe's live?" A: OIL DRUM LANE
Q: "In which of Shakespeare's plays does the title of Aldous Huxley's novel, ""Brave New World"" originate?" A: THE TEMPEST
Q: "What is the main ingredient of the French soup, ""Bouillabaisse""?" A: FISH
Q: "Who sang the theme tune, ""My Heart Will Go On"", in the 1997 film, ""Titanic""?" A: CELINE DION
Q: During the reign of which British monarch was the American Declaration of Independence signed? A: GEORGE III
Q: Which gas is produced when water is mixed with Calcium Carbide? A: ACETYLENE
Q: In which 1951 Alec Guinness film does an inventor create a fabric, which never gets dirty or wears out, thus creating panic in the clothing industry? A: THE MAN IN THE WHITE SUIT
Q: "In 1883, which French impressionist artist, painted the picture ""Les Parapluies"", which depicts several people carrying umbrellas?" A: PIERRE-AUGUSTE RENOIR
Q: On a standard typewriter keyboard, over which number on the top row, is a circumflex positioned? A: 6
Q: "Who is the subject of the one-man show, ""Hurricane"", performed by Richard Dormer?" A: ALEX HIGGINS
Q: "Which super-group did Eric Clapton join, after the pop group, ""Cream"" split up?" A: BLIND FAITH
Q: Who is the 2009 World Snooker Champion? A: John Higgins
Q: Which French monarch was known as the Sun King? A: Louis XIV
Q: In a 1965 film, by what name is Eric Stoner better known? A: The Cincinnati Kid
Q: Where do the Flintstones live? A: Bedrock
Q: What does a speliologist study? A: Caves
Q: Whom did Robert Ford shoot dead in 1882? A: Jesse James
Q: "From which country does the word ""Duffel"", as in coat, come?" A: Belgium
Q: Who was the most famous wife of baseball player Joe DiMaggio? A: Marilyn Monroe
Q: What is the capital of New Brunswick? A: Fredericton
Q: How many fences are jumped in completing the Grand National? A: 30
Q: Which famous baseball player had the forenames George Herman? A: """Babe"" Ruth"
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Orsino, Duke of Illyria, appear? A: Twelfth Night
Q: In which Shakespeare play does Prospero, Duke of Milan, appear? A: The Tempest
Q: Which Dickens novel is partly set in America? A: Martin Chuzzlewit
Q: "A collection of which birds is sometimes called a ""stare""?" A: Owls
Q: "Who played ""M"" in the Bond film Goldeneye?" A: Judi Dench
Q: Which was the first bird released from Noah's Ark? A: Raven
Q: In which jail was Oscar Wilde imprisoned? A: Reading
Q: In which jail did John Bunyan write Pilgrim's Progress? A: Bedford
Q: Who was the mother of Achilles, who dipped him into the River Styx? A: Thetis
Q: Which group had former names the Detours and the High Numbers? A: The Who
Q: Which superhero had the identity Linda Lee Dawson? A: Supergirl
Q: Which film was based on the story The Sentinel by Arthur C Clarke? A: 2001: A Space Odyssey
Q: Which funambulist was the first to cross Niagara Falls? A: Charles Blondin
Q: How many surfaces does a cone have? A: Two
Q: Which Irish writer married an ex-chambermaid called Nora Barnacle? A: James Joyce
Q: Who was the lead singer with the group Amen Corner? A: Andy Fairweather Low
Q: Daisy Hawkins was a working title of which Beatles song? A: Eleanor Rigby
Q: Who currently plays Inspector George Gently on TV? A: Martin Shaw
Q: Which planet was discovered by Wiliam Herschel? A: Uranus
Q: Whom did Barack Obama defeat in the 2008 US Presidential election? A: John McCain
Q: Who was Obama's running mate in the 2008 US Presidential election? A: Joe Biden
Q: Araucaria, Shed and Paul are names connected with which pastime? A: Crosswords
Q: Which film won the Oscar for Best Picture in 2009? A: Slumdog Millionaire
Q: Which is the largest living mammal? A: Blue Whale
Q: In which town or city is the University of Abertay? A: Dundee
Q: Who was replaced in 2008 by Rachel Riley? A: Carol Vorderman
Q: What name is given to scoring a single, double and treble of the same number in three darts? A: Shanghai
Q: Nitro-hydrochloric acid was traditionally called what? A: Aqua Regia
Q: Which Poet Laureate lived at Dove Cottage? A: William Wordsworth
Q: Over what distance is the Steeplechase run in Athletics at the Olympics? A: 3000 metres
Q: Which American vocal group was made up of Tim Hauser, Laurel Masse, Alan Paul and Janis Siegel? A: MANHATTAN TRANSFER
Q: John Bercow, speaker of the House of Commons is MP for which constituency? A: BUCKINGHAM
Q: The Bay of Fundy lies off the eastern coast of which country? A: CANADA
Q: "What was the name of the last surviving ""Tommy"", from World War I, who died in 2009, aged 111?" A: HARRY PATCH
Q: "Complete the name of the Caribbean island group, ""Antigua and ...""" A: BARBUDA
Q: The classical musician, Anne-Sophie Mutter plays which instrument? A: VIOLIN
Q: What was the name of the horse that highwayman, Dick Turpin, was reputed to have ridden? A: BLACK BESS
Q: The family seat of which English Duke is at Bradley House in Wiltshire, with a secondary estate at Berry Pomeroy in Totnes? A: DUKE OF SOMERSET
Q: Whereabouts in Scotland, is the ancestral home of the Duke of Argyll? A: INVERARY CASTLE
Q: """Lark Rise to Candleford"" is a popular BBC TV series. Which authoress wrote the books on which it is based?" A: FLORA THOMPSON
Q: Which Championship football league team is based at the Keepmoat Stadium? A: DONCASTER ROVERS
Q: "Complete the name of the Caribbean island group, ""St Vincent and...""" A: THE GRENADINES
Q: In Japanese cooking, what kind of food is Nori? A: SEAWEED
Q: Which book of the Bible recounts Paul's missionary travels? A: ACTS OF THE APOSTLES
Q: In hich constellation can the star Antares be found? A: SCORPIUS
Q: Walvis Bay is the chief port of which African country? A: NAMIBIA
Q: Which position is currently held by Liam Donaldson? A: CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER OF ENGLAND
Q: Which British group was formed in the late 1980's by ex-members of The Housemartins, Paul Heaton and David Hemingway? A: THE BEAUTIFUL SOUTH
Q: "In Gustav Holst's work ""The Planets Suite"" which planet is termed ""The Mystic""?" A: NEPTUNE
Q: Millport, home to the smallest cathedral in the British Isles, is the main community on which island, in the Firth of Clyde? A: GREAT CUMBRAE
Q: Russell Harty was an English teacher and Richard Whiteley his pupil at which public school? A: GIGGLESWICK
Q: Tavel and Hermitage wines are produced in which French wine growing area? A: RHONE VALLEY
Q: In which western town, in South Dakota, did Jack McCall shoot and kill Wild Bill Hickok in 1876? A: DEADWOOD
Q: As what is an anti-pruritic drug used to act against? A: ITCHING
Q: In 2009, who became only the second woman to train a Grand National winning horse? A: VENETIA WILLIAMS
Q: "Which Dutch Renaissance artist painted ""The Hunters in the Snow"", in 1565?" A: PETER BRUEGEL
Q: Captain Dobbin and Amelia Sedley are characters from which 19th century novel? A: VANITY FAIR
Q: England's highest sea cliff, Great Hangman, is in which county? A: DEVON
Q: "Which big band leader used, as his signature tune, ""One O'clock Jump""?" A: COUNT BASIE
Q: "Who is the male star of the 2009 film, ""The Invention of Lying""?" A: RICKY GERVAIS
Q: "How many contestants are there in Channel 4's TV game show, ""Deal or No Deal""?" A: 22
Q: In which city, then in Poland, but now in Belarus, did Germany and Russia sign a peace treaty in 1918? A: BREST LITOVSK
Q: In a railway carriage near which city in Northern France did the allies and the Germans sign the Armistice which ended WWI? A: COMPIEGNE
Q: """Somebody Stole My Gal"", was the theme tune of which band leader?" A: BILLY COTTON
Q: Leith Hill is the highest point in which county in Southern England? A: SURREY
Q: The characters, General Woundwart and Hazel , appear in which 20th century literary work? A: WATERSHIP DOWN
Q: "Which French neoclassical artist painted ""The Death of Marat"" in 1793?" A: JACQUES LOUIS DAVID
Q: "In the TV series ""The Vicar of Dibley"" who played the role of the verger, Alice Tinker?" A: EMMA CHAMBERS
Q: The BCG vaccine gives immunity against which disease? A: TUBERCULOSIS
Q: Who, in 1882 shot and killed Jesse James in St Joseph, Missouri? A: ROBERT FORD
Q: Vouvray and Sancerre wines come from which wine region of France? A: LOIRE VALLEY
Q: Which boarding school, near Tunbridge Wells, was attended by both Princess Anne, and the actress Rachel Weisz? A: BENENDEN
Q: The port of Ullapool, in the Scottish highlands, lies on which loch? A: LOCH BROOM
Q: "In Gustav Hoist's work, ""The Planet Suite"", which planet is known as ""The Magician""?" A: URANUS
Q: "Who is the American financier, who is nicknamed ""The Sage of Omaha""?" A: WARREN BUFFET
Q: In the stories by Michael Bond, which family finds Paddington Bear, and adopts him? A: THE BROWNS
Q: In which English county is the town of Market Harborough? A: LEICESTERSHIRE
Q: """Mama, just killed a man"", is the opening line of which hit song by Queen?" A: BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY
Q: "Who is the writer and star of the BBC TV comedy series, ""Not Going Out""?" A: LEE MACK
Q: In 1967, the Republic of Biafra declared independence from which country? A: NIGERIA
Q: Which instrument is used to examine the interior of the human eye? A: AN OPHTHALMOSCOPE
Q: Who is the only African footballer, to have won the FIFA World Player of the Year award? A: GEORGE WEAH
Q: Which former college of the University of London became independent in July 2007? A: IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Q: Colonel Nicholson is one of the main characters in which famous 1957 war film? A: BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI
Q: Which actress and singer is known as J Lo? A: JENNIFER LOPEZ
Q: What is the better known name of St Sylvester's Day? A: NEW YEAR'S EVE
Q: In which month of the year is Walpurgis Night celebrated in Europe and Scandinavia? A: APRIL
Q: "What is the name of the convict in Charles Dickens novel, ""Great Expectations""?" A: MAGWITCH
Q: Which composer, born in Pesaro, in Italy, in 1792, was known by the nickname, Monsieur Crescendo? A: ROSSINI
Q: "At which sport did Theodore ""Ted"" Kennedy, who died aged 83 in 2009, play fourteen seasons for the Toronto Maple Leafs?" A: ICE HOCKEY
Q: In which town is the Devonshire Royal Hospital, now the Devonshire campus of the University of Derby? A: BUXTON
Q: In 1967, French Somaliland became the French Territory of the Afars and Issas. To what did the country change its name on gaining independence in 1977? A: DJIBOUTI
Q: "Which musician and actor played the part of Wayne Norris in the TV series, ""Auf Wiedersehen Pet""?" A: GARY HOLTON
Q: "In the hit record ""Bohemian Rhapsody"", by Queen, who is asked to do the fandango?" A: SCARAMOUCHE
Q: In which English county is the town of Chipping Norton? A: OXFORDSHIRE
Q: With which antique dealer did Paddington Bear have his elevenses each day? A: MR GRUBER
Q: Which Canadian singer was born, Roberta Joan Anderson in 1943? A: JONI MITCHELL
Q: Which actress played the title role of Sylvia Broome on the 2005 'The Interpreter'? A: NICOLE KIDMAN
Q: What was the family name of the Italian artist, Michelangelo? A: BUONAROTTI
Q: Who was Lord Admiral of the English Fleet at the time of the Spanish Armada, Sir Francis Drake being his second in command? A: LORD HOWARD OF EFFINGHAM
Q: Who became the first President of the newly formed Republic of Tanzania in 1964, a position he held until his retirement in 1985? A: JULIUS NYERERE
Q: In the TV comedy 'Last of the Summer Wine', what is the name of Nora Batty's husband? A: WALLY
Q: In classical mythology, of what was Plutus, (not to be confused with Pluto), the God? A: WEALTH
Q: In 2009, Yas Marina was the circuit for which country's first ever Formula One motor race? A: ABU DHABI
Q: Which 19th century classical composer had the Christian name of Bedrich? A: SMETANA
Q: Who was the Greek God of wine, the inspirer of ritual madness and ecstasy, his Roman equivalent being Bacchus? A: DIONYSUS
Q: To travel from Manhattan to new Jersey, one may ride the PATH train. For what does the H in PATH stand? A: HUDSON
Q: FRELIMO was a political organisation that fought for independence from European rule in which African country? A: MOZAMBIQUE
Q: "Who wrote the poem, ""In Memoriam"", which contains the lines, ""It is better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all""?" A: ALFRED LORD TENNYSON
Q: "Which admiral was executed in 1759, for ""failing to do his utmost"", during the Battle of Minorca?" A: ADMIRAL JOHN BYNG
Q: Who chaired the convention, which was established by the European Council in December 2001, to produce a draft Constitution for the European Union? A: VALERY GISCARD D'ESTAING
Q: Which 1962 film, starring Robert Mitchum in the role of Max Cady, was remade in 1991, with the part being played by Robert de Nero? A: CAPE FEAR
Q: What is the name of the main thoroughfare in Barcelona, which runs from the Placa de Catalunya to the sea? A: LAS RAMBLAS
Q: Who eventually broke Bob Beamon's 23 year-old long jump record, in 1991? A: MIKE POWELL
Q: From 559 BC until 530 BC, Cyrus the Great was the leader of which ancient empire? A: PERSIA
Q: "Which actor played the roles of Fagin in the 1948 version of Oliver Twist, and King Charles I in the 1970 film, ""Cromwell""?" A: ALEC GUINNESS
Q: "Which group had a hit record in 1967 with the tune, ""A Whiter Shade of Pale""?" A: PROCOL HARUM
Q: The name of which metallic, chemical, element is derived from the German word for goblin? A: COBALT
Q: Who was twice French Minister of the Interior? First between May 2002 and March 2004, and then between May 2005 and March 2007? A: NICOLAS SARKOZY
Q: In the Bible, where did Jesus perform his miracle of turning water into wine? A: CANA
Q: What is the name of the new racecourse, opened in June 2009, about five miles north of Llanelli? A: FFOS LAS
Q: Who was Britain's longest serving Prime Minister, holding office from 1812-27? A: LORD LIVERPOOL
Q: Which is the largest province, by area, in Afghanistan? A: HELMAND PROVINCE
Q: Which title was given to the series of books by Roger Hargreaves, which featured the female counterparts of the Mr Men? A: LITTLE MISS BOOKS
Q: Which city is the capital of the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan? A: PESHAWAR
Q: Which is the lowest prime number greater than 50? A: 53
Q: "Who, in 1936, said, ""Guns will make us powerful. Butter will only make us fat""?" A: HERMANN GOERING
Q: Which British Prime Minister died in office in 1827, just 199 days after assuming the title? His is the shortest term of office of any British P.M. A: GEORGE CANNING
Q: "The title of which Verdi opera translates as, ""The Fallen Woman""?" A: LA TRAVIATA
Q: Which politician held the post of Mayor of Paris from March 1977 until May 1995? A: JACQUES CHIRAC
Q: In Roman times, where was the metallic element Copper chiefly mined, giving rise to its present name? A: CYPRUS
Q: """Go Now"", in 1964, is the only No 1 U.K. hit record for which famous group?" A: THE MOODY BLUES
Q: "Which actor played the roles of Lord Nelson in the 1941 film, ""That Hamilton Woman"", and Heathcliff in the 1939 version of ""Wuthering Heights""?" A: LAURENCE OLIVIER
Q: The explorer and navigator, Christopher Columbus, was born around 1451, in which city? A: GENOA
Q: Featured on a British commemorative stamp in October 2009, Judy Fryd formed the Association of Parents of Backward Children in 1946. As what is it now known? A: MENCAP
Q: What is the more common name for gypsum cement? A: PLASTER OF PARIS
Q: "Which long running TV series was introduced by a piece of music, entitled, ""The Funeral March of a Marionette"", by Gounod?" A: ALFRED HITCHCOCK PRESENTS
Q: Hedley Verity was an international star in which sport, during the 1930's? A: CRICKET
Q: "Which single malt Scotch whisky is handcrafted by, ""The Sixteen Men of Tame?" A: GLENMORANGIE
Q: What was the first forename of the infamous, French revolutionary leader Robespierre? A: MAXIMILIEN
Q: On 7th August 2008, which region was invaded by Georgian troops, prompting Russian retaliation? A: SOUTH OSSETIA
Q: "In the TV series, ""Rumpole of the Bailey"", what was the name of Rumpole's wife?" A: HILDA
Q: "Derived from the Greek word ""erythros"", which colour does the prefix erythro describe?" A: RED
Q: "Derived from the Greek word, ""xanthos, which colour does the prefix xantho describe?" A: YELLOW
Q: Which agreement, signed by ten members of the European Community, removed border controls between them? A: THE SCHENGEN AGREEMENT
Q: "In the Sherlock Holmes story, ""The Speckled Band"", what is the speckled band?" A: A SNAKE
Q: "Which actress plays the role of Christine Collins, the unfortunate mother in the 2008 film, ""Changeling""?" A: ANGELINA JOLIE
Q: At which sport was Martine Le Moignan a leading exponent, in the 1980's and early 90's? A: SQUASH
Q: Goitre, or enlarged thyroid gland, is caused by a deficiency of which trace element in the human body? A: IODINE
Q: What is the chemical name for the substance known as heavy water? A: DEUTERIUM OXIDE
Q: What was the title of the last Rolling Stones record to top the U.K. charts, doing so in July 1969? A: HONKY TONK WOMEN
Q: "Featured on a British commemorative stamp in 2009, which woman writer and feminist philosopher, wrote, in 1792, ""A Vindication of the Rights of Women""?" A: MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT
Q: Who beat Walter Mondale in the U.S. Presidential election in 1984? A: RONALD REAGAN
Q: Batavia was the former name, up until 1942, of which Asian city? A: JAKARTA
Q: Ilex aquifolium is the botanical name for which tree? A: (Common) HOLLY
Q: In opera 'The Marriage of Figaro' who does Figaro marry? A: SUSANNA
Q: Who, in the Old Testament, was born at Gath one of the 'five cities of the plains'? A: GOLIATH
Q: What are produced by the lachrymal glands? A: TEARS
Q: From which language do we get the words dinghy, shampoo and dungarees? A: HINDI
Q: Which organ of the body produces bile? A: LIVER
Q: What is the main ingredient of the soup borsch? A: BEETROOT
Q: What is the capital of Montenegro? A: PODGORICA
Q: Who was the Commander of the Union Army at the Battle of Gettysburg? A: GEORGE MEADE
Q: Striding Edge is a ridge leading to which Lakeland mountain? A: HELVELLYN
Q: Gaius Octavius (Octavian) is better known as which Roman Emperor? A: AUGUSTUS
Q: In which year was the M1 Motorway opened? A: 1959
Q: Which British territory was captured by the Japanese on Christmas Day 1941? A: HONG KONG
Q: The Roman Emperor Gaius Caesar Augustus Germanica was better known by which nickname? A: CALIGULA
Q: In naval warfare for what is a paravane used for? A: MINE SWEEPING
Q: With which instrument do you associate jazz musician Charlie Mingus? A: DOUBLE BASS
Q: Who was the original quizmaster of the TV series 'They Think It's All Over'? A: NICK HANCOCK
Q: Woburn Abbey is the family seat of which duke? A: BEDFORD
Q: Which of the United States is known as the Wolverine State'? A: MICHIGAN
Q: The Guiness brewery now specialises in producing stout, but which other traditional dark beer, weaker in alcohol, was also originally brewed there? A: PORTER
Q: With which instrument do you associate jazz musician Herbie Hancock? A: PIANO
Q: Inverary Castle is the family seat of which duke? A: ARGYLL
Q: Who was the original quizmaster of the TV series 'A Question of Sport'? A: DAVID VINE
Q: Which of the United States is known as the 'Badger State'? A: WISCONSIN
Q: In which English cathedral are the Five Sisters windows? A: YORK
Q: In Greek myth into what was Daphne turned whilst being pursued by Apollo? A: LAUREL TREE
Q: Which poet, killed in World War One, wrote the poems 'Adlestrop' and 'Celandine? A: EDWARD THOMAS
Q: To which English king was Elizabeth Woodville married? A: EDWARD the FOURTH
Q: Who was the last Prime Minister of the Great Britain to sit as Prime Minister in the House of Lords? A: (Marquess of) SALISBURY
Q: Callao is the main port of which country? A: PERU
Q: Which planet when discovered was originally called the Georgian planet? A: URANUS
Q: Which poet, who died during World War One, wrote the poems 'Peace' and 'Tiare Tahiti'? A: RUPERT BROOKE
Q: In Greek myth who was the beautiful youth, loved by Aphrodite and killed by a boar? A: ADONIS
Q: Who was the first music hall star to be knighted? A: HARRY LAUDER
Q: To which English king was Anne Neville married? A: RICHARD the THIRD
Q: Who is the only man to have won the US Open singles tennis title on three different surfaces (grass, clay, and hardcourt)? A: JIMMY CONNORS
Q: Whose was the shortest British premiership of the twentieth century? A: ANDREW BONAR LAW
Q: Who, in 1632, painted 'The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp'? A: REMBRANDT
Q: Who had the catchphrase 'Can you hear me mother'? A: SANDY POWELL
Q: What was the former name of Manchester Airport? A: RINGWAY
Q: As what were Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder known in the title of a 1968 film? A: THE PRODUCERS
Q: What is a Portuguese man-of-war? A: Jellyfish
Q: Which is the oldest tower of the Tower of London? A: The White Tower
Q: Rose Sunday is another name for which day? A: Mothering Sunday
Q: The Braemar Gathering is the most famous event of what type? A: Highland Games
Q: Yo Yo Ma is a virtuoso on which instrument? A: Cello
Q: Who invented the ball-point pen? A: Laszlo Biro
Q: Lesotho is surrounded by which other country? A: South Africa
Q: What is worn on the feet in street hockey? A: Roller skates
Q: What name is given to the part of a flag nearest the flag pole? A: Hoist
Q: What was the nationality of the scientist Robert Bunsen? A: German
Q: What was the name of the record label founded by Frank Sinatra in 1960? A: Reprise
Q: During the nineteenth century what name was given to Indian soldiers serving under British command? A: Sepoys
Q: From 1901-1903, Edmund Barton was the first Prime Minister of which country? A: Australia
Q: The 'Road to the Isles' runs from Fort William to which port? A: Mallaig
Q: In which country were the Bamiyan Buddhas destroyed in 2001? A: Afghanistan
Q: What was the name of the Cartwright's ranch in the TV western `Bonanza'? A: The Ponderosa
Q: What sport was played by the legendary character Rudolph Wanderone, better known as Minnesota Fats? A: Pool
Q: Who was acting leader of the Lib Dems after the resignation of Sir Menzies Campbell? A: Vince Cable
Q: Which composer (1874 - 1951) first used the Dodecaphonic Scale in his later works? A: Arnold Schoenberg
Q: Who wrote the Jimi Hendrix hit 'All Along the Watchtower'? A: Bob Dylan
Q: Nicknamed the 'King of Soho' his publications included Mayfair and Razzle magazines, he died in March 2008, by what name was he known? A: Paul Raymond
Q: Who was the father of King Henry 3rd? A: King John
Q: In which battle did the 'Thin Red Line' feature? A: Balaclava
Q: In which bay is the Isle of Capri? A: Bay of Naples
Q: On which Shakespeare play is the musical 'The Boys From Syracuse' based? A: Comedy of Errors
Q: Which old British coin was known as a 'tester'? A: Sixpence
Q: What name was given to small balls used as a charge in a cannon that scattered when fired? A: Grapeshot
Q: What is the fruit of the plant ananas comosus? A: Pineapple
Q: The exotic flower strelitzia is also known by which more common name? A: Bird of Paradise
Q: Who composed the 1912 ballet 'Daphnis et Chloe'? A: Ravel
Q: Flores and Corvo are islands in which group? A: Azores
Q: What was the surname of the British father and son who shared the Nobel Prize for physics in 1915? A: Bragg
Q: Norman Cook, known as Fat Boy Slim, began his music career as a member of which chart-topping group? A: The Housemartins
Q: Which authoress (1890-1969), surname Lamburn, was born in Bury? A: Richmal Crompton
Q: What is the unit of weight used to measure gemstones? A: Carat
Q: How many points make 'game' in rubber bridge? A: 100
Q: What is the name of the organic food company founded by Prince Charles? A: Duchy Originals
Q: Which 1985 agreement between many EC states led to the removal of border controls between those countries? A: Schengen
Q: The song 'O Fortuna' is to be found in which Carl Orff musical work? A: Carmina Burana
Q: The Nazi regime was Germany's Third Reich, which was the First Reich? A: Holy Roman Empire
Q: Sisters Kate and Bianca appear in which of Shakespeare's plays? A: Taming of the Shrew
Q: Which Impressionist painted 'The Card Players'? A: Cezanne
Q: Who is the presenter of TV programme Dragons Den? A: EVAN DAVIS
Q: From 1956 until his death in 2008 in which country did Arthur C Clarke live? A: SRI LANKA
Q: Which film saw Sean Connery's last portrayal of James Bond? A: NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN
Q: What is the nickname of TV presenter Richard Hammond? A: HAMSTER
Q: In which country does the factual series Ice Road Truckers take place? A: CANADA
Q: "What does the ""S"" in HBOS stand?" A: SCOTLAND
Q: Which retail company used Julie Walters in its adverts? A: ASDA
Q: Which famous mountain is known as the Six Grandfathers to the Lakota Sioux Indians? A: MOUNT RUSHMORE
Q: Who was Britain's youngest Olympian at the 2008 games? A: TOM DALEY
Q: By what name is the Music of Black Origin Awards better known? A: MOBO AWARDS
Q: Defeat at which battle caused the French to leave Vietnam in the 1960's? A: DIEN BIEN PHU
Q: Which stage musical is based on the songs of Take That? A: NEVER FORGET
Q: Where in England beside Liverpool would you find a regional Tate Gallery? A: ST IVES
Q: "What is the name for the ""Code of Living"" followed by the Samurai?" A: BUSHIDO
Q: Who made his last film appearance in Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets? A: RICHARD HARRIS
Q: Which famous US actor made his last film appearance in the film Solyent Green? A: EDWARD G ROBINSON
Q: Who was the last English manager of Chelsea? A: GLENN HODDLE
Q: Which stretch of water runs around Iran, Oman and The United Arab Emirates? A: STRAITS OF HORMUZ
Q: Which man other than Billy McNeill and Martin O'Neil has managed both Aston Villa and Celtic? A: DR JOSEF VENGLOS
Q: What is the nickname of TV presenter James May? A: CAPTAIN SLOW
Q: Which world famous city in Eire stands on the River Lee? A: CORK
Q: What symbol is found in the centre of the Indian flag? A: A WHEEL
Q: Which ancient structure ran from Old Kirkpatrick, Dumbartonshire to Bo'ness Falkirk? A: ANTONINE WALL
Q: In 1995 Dave Grohl formed which pop band? A: FOO FIGHTERS
Q: Who is the only 20th century president to be carved onto Mount Rushmore? A: THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Q: In which English city would you find a district called Portishead? A: BRISTOL
Q: St Catherine's Point is the most southerly tip of which British island? A: ISLE OF WIGHT
Q: Dundee cake is a rich fruit cake with which traditional topping? A: ALMONDS
Q: In The Lord of the Rings trilogy to where did Frodo have to return the ring? A: (THE FIRES OF) MOUNT
Q: After whom is the New Orleans main airport named? A: LOUIS ARMSTRONG
Q: Where did Thomas Cook organise his first package holiday to go to? A: LOUGHBOROUGH
Q: In most parts of the world castrated bulls are called bullocks what are they called in USA? A: STEERS
Q: In 1979, Trevor Francis became the first footballer to be transferred for a fee of £1 million, when he moved from Birmingham City to which club? A: NOTTINGHAM FOREST
Q: "In the Dickens novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", who sued Mr Pickwick for breach of promise?" A: MRS BARDELL
Q: Nadezhda von Meck was the patron of which great composer, and to whom he dedicated his fourth symphony? A: TCHAIKOVSKY
Q: Who owned the famous racehorse Shergar? A: THE AGA KHAN
Q: "Which English Renaissance dramatist and poet wrote the 17th century play, ""Volpone""?" A: BEN JONSON
Q: Which political commentator and writer published a controversial biography of Prince Charles in 1995, much of it concerning the collapse of his marriage to Princess Diana? A: JONATHAN DIMBLEBY
Q: Which nickname was given to the American WWII general, George Patton? A: BLOOD and GUTS
Q: In which BBC magazine style TV programme do John Craven, Julia Bradbury and Matt Baker take part? A: COUNTRYFILE
Q: Who has taken over the TV role of Doctor Who, from actor David Tennant? A: MATT SMITH
Q: Who conducted the famous Panorama interview with Princess Diana in 1995? A: MARTIN BASHIR
Q: Which Kent batsman has the same surname as a two-syllable point of the compass? A: SAM NORTHEAST
Q: In which modern day country is the site of the 1704 Battle of Blenheim? A: GERMANY
Q: "What is the profession of Ricky Gervais character, Bertram Pinkus, in the 2008 film, ""Ghost Town""?" A: DENTIST
Q: "Which English novelist and poet, wrote the 19th century novel, ""The Woodlanders""?" A: THOMAS HARDY
Q: "In the Dickens novel, ""The Pickwick Papers"", who is Mr Pickwick's manservant?" A: SAM WELLER
Q: Agadir is a major city in which African country? A: MOROCCO
Q: Which Hungarian airline, (IATA code W6), flies from Liverpool to Gdansk, Katowice, Prague and Warsaw? A: WIZZ
Q: The vicuna is the smallest species of which group of animals? A: CAMELS
Q: Mostar and Banja Luka are the two largest cities in which country? A: BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Q: """April is the cruellest month"" is the opening line of which poem by T S Eliot?" A: THE WASTELAND-
Q: "Who hosts the TV comedy panel show, ""Argumental""?" A: JOHN SERGEANT
Q: "In which 1956, film musical did Gordon MacRae sing about the attributes of ""My Boy Bill""?" A: CAROUSEL
Q: In 1930, who discovered the planet Pluto, now re-designated an asteroid? A: CLYDE TOMBAUGH
Q: Which Impressionist artist painted a series of pictures in the 1890's, depicting haystacks? A: CLAUDE MONET
Q: With which part of the body is the medicinal science of orthodontics concerned? A: TEETH
Q: Yerba Buena, was the original Spanish name of which Major American City? A: SAN FRANCISCO
Q: "Which American actor, who died in 2009, played the middle aged husband of teenage temptress, Carol Baker, in the 1956 film, ""Lolita""?" A: KARL MALDEN
Q: """The Red Badge of Courage"", a novel by Stephen Crane is set during which war?" A: AMERICAN CIVIL WAR
Q: What was the Christian name of Sherlock Holmes partner Dr. Watson? A: JOHN
Q: In which 1970 film, did Dustin Hoffman play the part of a hundred year old survivor of the Battle of The Little Big Horn? A: LITTLE BIG MAN
Q: Peter Stuyvesant, born in Holland, became Governor of which American city in 1647? A: NEW YORK
Q: In which region of Israel, is the village of Cana, where Jesus performed his first miracle, turning water into wine? A: GALILEE
Q: Which South American country has borders with Brazil, Bolivia and Argentina? A: PARAGUAY
Q: "In which 1950 film musical did Howard Keel and Betty Hutton argue in song, that each of them could ""Do Anything Better Than You""?" A: ANNIE GET YOUR GUN
Q: "Who succeeded Carol Vorderman on the TV quiz show, ""Countdown"" in 2009?" A: RACHEL RILEY
Q: "Which John Masefield poem begins, ""Quinquereme of Nineveh, from distant Ophir""?" A: CARGOES
Q: Pula and Rijeka are two cities in which country? A: CROATIA
Q: In football, what is the Italian equivalent to the English Premier League? A: SERIE A
Q: Which battle of the American Civil war took place in Tennessee on the 6th/7th April 1862? A: Shiloh
Q: Where in Arizona is London Bridge located? A: Lake Havasu
Q: What is the Hindi name for India? A: Bharat
Q: "Which ""battle"" took place in South Dakota on 29th December 1890?" A: Wounded Knee
Q: Which African capital lies closest to the Greenwich Meridian? A: Accra
Q: What is the Finnish name for Finland? A: Suomi
Q: "Who wrote, in translation, ""Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains""?" A: (Jean Jacques)Rousseau
Q: In Norse mythology, what type of creature was Fenrir? A: Wolf
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear powered civilian vessel, an icebreaker? A: Lenin
Q: From what did Robert the Bruce die in 1329? A: Leprosy
Q: Who, starting in 1962, created a series of silkscreen paintings of Marilyn Monroe? A: (Andy) Warhol
Q: In the Old Testament, which of the twelve tribes of Israel, to which Moses and Aaron belonged, was not given territory in the Promised Land? A: Levi
Q: In Egyptian mythology, what type of animal was Apis? A: Bull
Q: "Who wrote, in translation, ""From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs""?" A: (Karl) Marx
Q: What was the name of the first nuclear powered merchant cargo ship? A: Savannah
Q: From what did Oliver Cromwell die in 1658? A: Malaria
Q: In the Old Testament, to which the twelve tribes of Israel did Saul, David, and the prophesied Messiah belong? A: Judah
Q: "Who had a UK No. 1 hit in 1970 with ""Yellow River""?" A: Christie
Q: Which company manufactured the WW2 plane, the B17, known as the Flying Fortress? A: Boeing
Q: Which fur is traditionally used to trim the robes of peers and judges? A: Ermine
Q: The main ingredients of the dish vichysoisse are potato and which other vegetable? A: Leek
Q: In which country would you find the Mato Grosso plateau? A: Brazil
Q: "In the 1966 film ""The Good, The Bad and The Ugly"", who played Tuco, ""the Ugly""?" A: Eli Wallach
Q: As what was the Isle of Wight known to the Romans? A: Vectis
Q: What was the forename of the Hungarian composer Kodaly? A: Zoltan
Q: What name is given in English law to a minor legally placed under the care of a guardian? A: Ward
Q: Which company manufactured the RAF's first operational jet fighter the Meteor? A: Gloster
Q: Which King of Great Britain was succeeded by his niece? A: William the Fourth
Q: The main ingredients of the Irish dish colcannon are potato and which other vegetable? A: Cabbage
Q: Who played Malcolm X in the 1992 film of the same name? A: Denzel Washington
Q: Created in 1903, what became England's first 'garden city'? A: Letchworth
Q: Who was the first American to win the Tour de France? A: Greg LeMond
Q: Which Pulitzer Prize winning novel, by Alice Walker, was the subject of numerous attempts to have it banned, on the grounds of violence and racism? A: The Color Purple
Q: What name is given to the arc of bright spots seen during a solar eclipse, and caused by the uneven surface of the moon? A: Baily's Beads
Q: Which cathedral stands at the southern end of Red Square? A: St. Basil's
Q: In which musical do the characters Rusty, Dinah, and Poppa appear? A: Starlight Express
Q: Created in 1946, what became the first New Town in England? A: Stevenage
Q: Which book, by former MI5 operative Peter Wright, was banned by the British government on the grounds of national security? A: Spycatcher
Q: What was the name of Freddie Laker's cheap trans-Atlantic airline from 1977 to 1983? A: Sky Train
Q: In which constellation would you find the Horse Head nebula? A: Orion
Q: What was the former name of Botswana? A: Bechuanaland
Q: Howard Kirk is the eponymous hero of which 1975 Malcolm Bradbury novel? A: History Man
Q: What name was given to a Roman gladiator who fought with a weighted net, a 3-pointed trident and a dagger? A: Retiarius
Q: Which winner of X Factor had the best selling single of 2008? A: Alexandra Burke
Q: Which is the only horse racing course in Northamptonshire? A: Towcester
Q: In medicine, what name is given to inflammation of the protective membranes enclosing the brain and spinal cord? A: Meningitis
Q: The national flag of Germany is a tricolour with three horizontal bands. What colour is the top band? A: Black
Q: "Which Greek word meaning ""curdling"" is used in medicine for the formation of a blood clot?" A: Thrombosis
Q: "In his famous poem, precisely how many daffodils did Wordsworth see ""at a glance""?" A: Ten thousand
Q: In heraldry, what is a Talbot? A: A (hunting) dog
Q: Which 1790 Mozart opera features the heroines Dorabella and Fiordiligi? A: Cosi Fan Tutte
Q: Which British cyclist won four stages of the 2008 Tour de France? A: Mark Cavendish
Q: "Which English king married the sister of the ""Princes in the Tower""?" A: Henry VII
Q: What name was given to Haydn's symphony No. 96 as a result of a chandelier falling and narrowly missing the audience at its first performance? A: Miracle Symphony
Q: In which year did Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother die? A: 2002
Q: Who started off selling newspapers, became the First Lord of the Admiralty in the 1870s and was immortalised in Gilbert and Sullivan's HMS Pinafore? A: W H Smith
Q: What was the title of Sir Walter Scott's first novel of 1814 which he set around the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion? A: Waverley
Q: Which Glen Miller recording of 1941 was the first record ever to be awarded a gold disc? A: Chattanooga Choo Choo
Q: What number Pennsylvania Avenue is the address of the White House? A: 1600
Q: What is the only US state capital to have a 3-word name? A: Salt Lake City
Q: "Who represented the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1975 with the song ""Let me be the one""?" A: The Shadows
Q: In Norse mythology, who was the goddess of the underworld? A: Hel
Q: Which George Bernard Shaw play is subtitled 'A Metabiological Pentateuch'? A: Back to Methuselah
Q: Which English king was the son of Lord Darnley and Mary Queen of Scots? A: James I
Q: For which professional rugby league club did athlete Dwain Chambers play one match in 2008? A: Castleford
Q: Which is Spain's third most populated city after Madrid and Barcelona? A: Valencia
Q: Which planet has the densest atmosphere consisting mostly of carbon dioxide? A: Venus
Q: In which organ of the body are worn-out red blood cells removed and antibodies synthesised? A: Spleen
Q: For his portrayal of which real life character did Philip Seymour Hoffman win the 2006 Best Actor Oscar? A: Truman Capote
Q: """Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife"" is a line written by which poet?" A: Thomas Gray
Q: The moons of Uranus are named after characters in the works of Shakespeare and which other English writer and poet? A: Alexander Pope
Q: "Who represented the United Kingdom in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1974 with the song ""Long Live Love""?" A: Olivia Newton John
Q: "What year did the Queen describe as her ""annus horribilis""?" A: 1992
Q: A photograph of which actress did Judge Roy Bean always carry in his wallet? A: Lily Langtry
Q: What is the name of the carbohydrate found in the cell walls of fruits and used in the setting of jams and jellies? A: PECTIN
Q: What is the name of the structure under a balloon or airship that holds the crew and passengers? A: GONDOLA
Q: How many years are there in a US President's term of office? A: FOUR
Q: Which pie-making company in Baxenden in Lancashire, has bright insect-green wagons delivering to chippies across the region? A: HOLLAND'S
Q: In which magazine can Billie the Fish, Roger Mellie and Sid the Sexist appear? A: VIZ
Q: What is the name of the estuary at the mouths of the rivers Ouse and Trent? A: HUMBER
Q: What record did Jeanne Calment reach in 1995? A: OLDEST HUMAN BEING
Q: What is the most common name for the eggplant? A: AUBERGINE
Q: What is the name of the blue or white cheese, made from full cream milk and manufactured in the parts of Leicestershire around Melton Mowbray? A: STILTON
Q: On the banks of which river does the city of Quebec stand? A: ST LAWRENCE
Q: To which religious group did the chocolate manufacturing families Cadbury, Fry and Rowntree all belong? A: QUAKERS
Q: What is the Roman numeral for 500? A: D
Q: Which author created the CIA agent Jack Ryan? A: TOM CLANCY
Q: Bohea is a type of what? A: TEA
Q: Which band leader's theme tune was 'Somebody Stole my Gal? A: BILLY COTTON
Q: What structure was moved from Hyde Park to Sydenham in 1854? A: THE CRYSTAL PALACE
Q: Which Worcester-based firm is the main manufacturer of Worcester Sauce? A: LEA & PERRIN
Q: British Airways was formed between 1971 and 1974 by the merger of two airlines - name either. A: BEA or BOAC
Q: Which Scottish soup's name derives from its main ingredients, chicken and leeks? A: COCKALEEKIE
Q: Which Russian jeweller of French decent is famous for his intricate Easter Eggs of gold and diamonds, which he made for the Russian Tsars? A: PETER FABERGE
Q: Of which tribe was Boudicca the queen? A: ICENI
Q: What American state's capital is Montgomery? A: ALABAMA
Q: In the Church of England, which office is below that of a bishop, but is the head of the chapter of a cathedral? A: DEAN
Q: What was the punishment of the six Trade Unionists, the Tolpuddle Martyrs? A: TRANSPORTATION
Q: Roy Plomley was, in 1944, the creator and first presenter of which radio programme? A: DESERT ISLAND DISCS
Q: In France, a charcuterie is a shop specialising in which meat? A: PORK
Q: Which actor played Al Jolson in The Jolson Story and it sequel? A: LARRY PARKS
Q: Which town in Southwest Belgium, twinned with Bootle in 1967, was on 21 August 1914, the site of the first World War I battle between British and German forces? A: MONS
Q: In the TV series 'Upstairs Downstairs' what was the name of the butler played by Gordon Jackson? A: HUDSON
Q: In melodrama, who was the supplier of fillings for Mrs Lovatt's pies? A: SWEENEY TODD
Q: What did Letchworth become in 1963 and Welwyn in 1969? A: GARDEN CITIES
Q: Which winner of the 1953 Best Film Oscar is set in a Honolulu barracks immediately before and during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour? A: FROM HERE TO ETERNITY
Q: In the 18th century a thief on horseback was a highwayman, what was the name of his pedestrian counterpart? A: FOOTPAD
Q: The athletic event the triathlon consists of running, swimming and what other event? A: CYCLING
Q: Who was US president immediately before Ronald Reagan? A: JIMMY CARTER
Q: What was the name of the character played by Alec Guinness in the TV series Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy? A: GEORGE SMILEY
Q: Which South Atlantic island suffered a volcanic eruption in 1963, forcing the inhabitants to be evacuated to Britain? A: TRISTAN DA CUNHA
Q: What was the title of the 1975 TV series starring Peter Strauss and Nick Nolte as the brothers Rudy and Tom Jordache? A: RICH MAN, POOR MAN
Q: Which 1960s TV series featured the spymaster Alexander Waverley, played by Leo G Carroll? A: THE MAN FROM U.N.C.L.E.
Q: According to myth, which monster eventually killed by Theseus, inhabited and guarded the labyrinth of King Minos at Knossos? A: MINOTAUR
Q: Which name is common to both a type of snake and she dragon of Mount Parnassus that protected the Oracle at Delphi? A: PYTHON
Q: "Which singer had a 1970s number one hit with the song ""When I Need You?" A: LEO SAYER
Q: Which authoress lived at Chawton House in Hampshire in the early years of the 19th century? A: JANE AUSTEN
Q: The Catalan Dragons Rugby League team is based in which town in Southern France? A: PERPIGNAN
Q: "The Alexandre Dumas play, ""La Dame aux Camelias"" was the inspiration for which Verdi opera?" A: LA TRAVIATA
Q: Which spice, of Asiatic origin, is commonly used as a cheaper substitute for saffron? A: TURMERIC
Q: """The Ladies of the Vale"" is the popular name for the three spires of which cathedral in central England?" A: LICHFIELD
Q: In which English town or city is the Meadowhall shopping centre located? A: SHEFFIELD
Q: "In which Australian state is the location of the TV show, ""I'm a celebrity, get me out of here""?" A: QUEENSLAND
Q: What is the surname of the twins, Raphael and Fabio, who play football for Manchester Utd? A: DA SILVA
Q: Which cathedral in South West England is the only one to house a 24 hour clock, the second oldest surviving clock in England? A: WELLS
Q: What was the name of Dan Dare's co-pilot, in the comic strip adventures in the Eagle comic? A: DIGBY
Q: Which Puccini opera remained unfinished at the time of his death in 1924? A: TURANDOT
Q: "In the children's TV programme, ""The Magic Roundabout"", what was the name of the snail?" A: BRIAN
Q: In 1964, Boris Johnson, Mayor of London, was born in which major US city? A: NEW YORK
Q: "Who wrote the poem, which begins, ""She walks in beauty like the night. Of cloudless climes, and starry skies""?" A: LORD BYRON
Q: Which famous author lived at Bateman's, a Jacobean house in East Sussex, in the first half of the 20th century? A: RUDYARD KIPLING
Q: Which herb is an essential ingredient in the Swedish salmon dish, Gravlax? A: DILL
Q: "Who played the part of Private Ryan in the 1998 film, ""Saving Private Ryan""?" A: MATT DAMON
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays is Orsino, the Duke of Illyria, one of the main characters? A: TWELFTH NIGHT
Q: Which American golfer gained his first major title, when he won the 2009 US Open? A: LUCAS GLOVER
Q: "Who wrote most of the operetta, ""The Tales of Hoffman"", which although unfinished at his death, was completed by Ernest Guiraud?" A: JACQUES OFFENBACH
Q: The statue of Eros, in Piccadilly in London, was the work of which sculptor? A: SIR ALFRED GILBERT
Q: Catherine of Braganza was the Queen of which British monarch? A: CHARLES II
Q: What nationality are people born in the state of Carinthia? A: AUSTRIAN
Q: Eleanor of Castille was the first Queen Consort of which English monarch? A: EDWARD I
Q: Who sculpted the statue of Christ of the Andes which stands above Rio de Janeiro? A: PAUL LANDOWSKI
Q: Which American golfer beat Tom Watson in a play-off to win the 2009 Open Golf championship at Turnberry? A: STEWART CINK
Q: In which of Shakespeare's plays does the character, Mustardseed, appear? A: A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
Q: "Who played the part of General Omar Bradley opposite George C Scott in the 1970 film, ""Patton""?" A: KARL MALDEN
Q: Liverpool FC co-owner, George Gillett, also owns which Canadian National Hockey League team? A: MONTREAL CANADIANS
Q: Extending from the caecum to the rectum, the ascending, transverse, descending and sigmoid are four sections of which part of the large intestine? A: THE COLON
Q: "The name of which Biblical character means, ""Father of Many""?" A: ABRAHAM
Q: Which herb is a distinctive ingredient in Bearnaise sauce? A: TARRAGON
Q: Which rapper is the husband of R and B superstar singer, Beyoncé? A: JAY Z
Q: Born in 1457, who was the last English King to be born in Wales? A: HENRY VII
Q: "Which chef was the winner of the 2009 show, ""I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here""?" A: GINO d'ACAMPO
Q: What is the highest number on the Beaufort scale of wind measurement? A: 17
Q: The film Kes is based on which book by the author Barry Hines? A: A Kestrel for a Knave
Q: The Cato Street Conspiracy was a plot to kill which British Prime Minister? A: Lord Liverpool
Q: Kungsholmen, Norrmalm, Sodermalm and Ostermalm are the four districts of which European city? A: Stockholm
Q: On TV who played the detective Frank Cannon? A: William Conrad
Q: Which band's name was inspired by a novel by Herman Hesse? A: Steppenwolf
Q: Which English football league club is based in Cleethorpes? A: Grimsby Town
Q: Frenchman Henri Mouhot rediscovered which Cambodian religious monument in 1860? A: Angkor Wat
Q: Moshe Dayan, Danger Mouse and James Joyce were all noted for wearing what? A: Eyepatch
Q: Which actor played dodgy author Mel Hutchwright in Coronation Street? A: Sir Ian McKellen
Q: The Jordanian capital Amman formerly had the same name as which American city? A: Philadelphia
Q: Traditionally made for agricultural workers, which elongated suet crust dumpling has a meat filling at one end and a jam one at the other? A: Bedfordshire Clanger
Q: Which company originally produced the 'Matchbox' series of die cast toys? A: Lesney
Q: First used for test match cricket on 10 November 2000, the Bangabandhu National Stadium is in which country? A: Bangladesh
Q: Which European capital city was a city-state known as Ledra in ancient times? A: Nicosia
Q: Meles meles is the Latin name for which British mammal? A: Badger
Q: Which song was a hit for Rose Royce in 1978 and for Jimmy Nail in 1985? A: Love Don't Live Here Anymore
Q: What is the derived SI unit of energy? A: Joule
Q: From which children's book did Pink Floyd take the title of their 1967 album 'Piper at the Gates of Dawn'? A: Wind in the Willows
Q: What name for the Internet, the World Wide Web etc was popularised by fiction author William Gibson in his novel Neuromancer? A: Cyberspace
Q: Anna Smashnova played which sport professionally until 2007? A: Tennis
Q: The film Apocalypse Now is based on which novella by the author Joseph Conrad? A: Heart of Darkness
Q: The Ridolfi Plot planned the assassination of which British monarch? A: Queen Elizabeth I
Q: Which band was named after the 18th century agriculturalist credited with inventing the seed drill? A: Jethro Tull
Q: Napoli is the capital of which Italian region? A: Campania
Q: What name is shared by a leader of the Peasants' Revolt in the 1300's and a Labour politician born in 1946? A: Jack Straw
Q: Which company was founded by David Quayle and Richard Block in Southampton in 1969? A: B & Q
Q: Originating in the Scottish town of Forfar, which pie is made from minced beef, and sometimes onions, in shortcrust pastry folded into a semi-circular shape? A: Bridie
Q: Meccano produced which range of die cast toys? A: Dinky
Q: In the Latin American version of The Simpsons which character is known as Jefe Gorgory? A: Chief Wiggum
Q: In the Disney film Peter Pan what colour is Tinkerbell's dress? A: Green
Q: Which medical device, used for auscultation was invented by Rene Laennec in 1816? A: Stethoscope
Q: Which European capital city was known as Vindobona in Roman times? A: Vienna
Q: Which song was a hit for Eddie Floyd in 1967 and for Amii Stewart in 1979? A: Knock on Wood
Q: Who had world concert tours entitled 'Drowned World', 'Confessions' and 'Blond Ambition? A: Madonna
Q: What is the derived SI unit of frequency? A: Hertz
Q: "The song ""Piper at the Gates of Dawn"" appears on the 1997 album 'The Healing Game', by which artist?" A: Van Morrison
Q: The city of St Albans stands on which river? A: River Ver
Q: In which country is the most easterly point of Africa? A: Somalia
Q: Who played `Wolfie' Smith in the TV comedy series Citizen Smith? A: Robert Lindsay
Q: How many pairs of ribs are in the human body? A: 12
Q: Inspector Lestrade appears in novels featuring which detective? A: Sherlock Holmes
Q: In cricket what score is known as 'Nelson'? A: 111
Q: In which month does the Scottish quarter day Candlemas fall? A: February
Q: In which Yorkshire town are the famous Five Rise Locks on the Leeds-Liverpool canal? A: Bingley
Q: Whose first solo no. 1 hit was Fight for this Love, released in 2009? A: Cheryl Cole
Q: What is the official language of Andorra? A: Catalan
Q: Which crop is processed in a `ginnery'? A: Cotton
Q: The name of which English county is part of the name of the Queen Mother's unfortunate 1957 Grand National horse? A: Devon
Q: Ramshaw Rocks and Hen Cloud are in which National Park? A: Peak District
Q: What position is no.1 in rugby league and no.15 in rugby union? A: Full Back
Q: Which American composer wrote the music for the songs Stardust and Georgia on my Mind? A: Hoagy Carmichael
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet, when written as a capital, looks like our letter P? A: Rho
Q: "Who left this message to James Callaghan in 1964 ""Good luck, old cock, sorry to leave it in such a mess""?" A: Reginald Maudling
Q: In which state is the waterfront in the film On the Waterfront? A: New Jersey
Q: Inspector Japp appears in novels featuring which detective? A: Hercule Poirot
Q: Which 16 century French navigator is credited with the discovery of the St Lawrence Seaway? A: Jacques Cartier
Q: Which word means an interaction between two different organisms living in close physical association usually to the advantage of both? A: Symbiosis
Q: What position is no.9 in rugby league and no.2 in rugby union? A: Hooker
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the mother of Solomon? A: Bathsheba
Q: In 1993, Arsenal won both the FA Cup and League Cup, beating which team in both finals? A: Sheffield Wednesday
Q: Yellowstone National Park lies mainly in Wyoming, partly in Montana and also in which other state? A: Idaho
Q: Which animal appears on the coat of arms and flag of Berlin? A: Bear
Q: "Which author said ""A classic is something everyone wants to have read but nobody wants to read""?" A: Mark Twain
Q: Which letter of the Greek alphabet, when written as a capital, looks like a triangle? A: Delta
Q: "Which American actress said of herself ""I'm as pure as the driven slush""?" A: Tallulah Bankhead
Q: In the Old Testament, who was the mother of Isaac? A: Sarah
Q: The line 'The course of true love never did run smooth' appears in which of Shakespeare's plays? A: A Midsummer Night's Dream
Q: Who was the first man to circumnavigate Australia in his ship The Investigator between 1796 and 1803, the largest island in Bass Strait is named after him? A: Matthew Flinders
Q: What name is given to the passage of a solvent from a less concentrated into a more concentrated solution through a semi-permeable membrane? A: Osmosis
Q: In 1997, which team lost in both the FA Cup and League Cup finals, to Leicester City in the League Cup and Chelsea in the FA Cup and were also relegated from the Premier League? A: Middlesbrough
Q: Which is the largest container port in the UK? A: Felixstowe
Q: The Admiral Benbow Inn features in Stevenson's novel Treasure Island; what was the name of the other inn referred to in the book? A: SPYGLASS
Q: Which town in Northamptonshire houses the Alfred East Art Gallery? A: KETTERING
Q: Which Danish explorer discovered Alaska in the eighteenth century? A: VITUS BERING
Q: Which star is the brightest in the constellation Taurus? A: ALDEBARAN
Q: Having subsequently released a CD single called The Climb, who won the 2009 X Factor? A: JOE McELDERRY
Q: On view in London's National Gallery, the work The Supper at Emmaus is the work of which painter? A: CARAVAGGIO
Q: Who was the first chairman of BBC TV's Call My Bluff? A: ROBIN RAY
Q: Which country was chosen by FIFA to host the football world cup in 2014? A: BRAZIL
